Influence of carbohydrates on the cytotoxicity of an aqueous mistletoe drug and of purified mistletoe lectins tested on human T-leukemia cells.	Partially and highly purified lectins from Viscum album L. (mistletoe) cause a dose-dependent decrease of viability of human leukemia cell cultures, MOLT-4, after 72 h treatment. The LC50 of the partially purified lectin was 27.8 ng/ml, of the highly purified lectin 1.3 ng/ml. Compared to the highly purified lectin a 140-fold higher protein concentration of an aqueous mistletoe drug was required to obtain similar cytotoxic effects on MOLT-4 cells. Cytotoxicity of the highly purified lectin was preferentially inhibited by D-galactose and lactose, cytotoxicity of the mistletoe drug and the partially purified lectin were preferentially inhibited by lactose and N-acetyl-D-galactosamine (GalNAc). Two lectin fractions with almost the same cytotoxic activity on MOLT-4 cells but with different carbohydrate affinities were isolated by affinity chromatography from the mistletoe drug: mistletoe lectin I with an affinity to D-galactose and GalNAc and mistletoe lectin II with an affinity to GalNAc. The lectin fractions and the mistletoe drug inhibited protein synthesis of MOLT-4 cells stronger than DNA synthesis. Furthermore a subpopulation of MOLT-4, resistant to cytotoxic doses of both the mistletoe drug and the mistletoe lectins, was shown to exhibit a reduced amount of GalNAc and N-acetyl-D-glucosamine in their cellular glycoproteins which are probably responsible for the binding of the cytotoxic lectins. These results indicate that lectins are the main toxins in the mistletoe drug.
Demonstration of cell-ricin interaction by electrophoretic light scattering.	Electrophoretic light scattering has been used to investigate the interaction of ricin, a vegetal toxin, with cells. This technique allowed measurements in the presence of free ligand and proved particularly useful for the study of a system with low affinity. The electrophoretic mobility of erythrocytes and oligodendrocytes was found equal to 2.08 x 10(-8) and 2.35 x 10(-8)m2s-1V-1, respectively. Upon ricin binding, these values decreased significantly. This change was related to the saturation of the binding sites. The specificity of the interaction was demonstrated by conducting the experiments in the presence of lactose. This specific inhibitor fully prevented the ricin-cell interaction.
Purification and physicochemical properties of ricins and agglutinins from Ricinus communis.	Two toxin ricins and two agglutinins have been purified from the seeds of Ricinus communis by an improved procedure based on ion-exchange chromatography and gel filtration. One of the two purified ricins binds to Sepharose 4B while the other does not. The physicochemical properties of the four Ricinus lectins are presented and the possible relationships of these Ricinus lectins to those previously described are discussed.
