Tick-borne rickettiosis in Guadeloupe, the French West Indies: isolation of Rickettsia africae from Amblyomma variegatum ticks and serosurvey in humans, cattle, and goats.	Twenty-seven rickettsiae were isolated and/or detected from 100 Amblyomma variegatum ticks collected on Guadeloupe in the French West Indies. In this study, the polymerase chain reaction procedure appeared to be more sensitive in detecting rickettsiae in ticks than the shell-vial technique. Sequencing a portion of the outer membrane protein A-encoding gene showed that these rickettsiae appeared to be identical to Rickettsia africae, a member of the spotted fever group rickettsiae recently described as an agent of African tick-bite fever occurring in sub-Sahelian Africa. A high seroprevalence of antibodies to R. africae was demonstrated among mammals, particularly humans, cattle, and goats. These results and a recently reported case of an infection due to R. africae on Guadeloupe demonstrate that R. africae is present on this island. Although this disease has been underdiagnosed there, it may be frequent and may exist on other Caribbean islands where A. variegatum has propagated dramatically over recent years.
Nuclear genes that encode mitochondrial proteins for DNA and RNA metabolism are clustered in the Arabidopsis genome.	The plant mitochondrial genome is complex in structure, owing to a high degree of recombination activity that subdivides the genome and increases genetic variation. The replication activity of various portions of the mitochondrial genome appears to be nonuniform, providing the plant with an ability to modulate its mitochondrial genotype during development. These and other interesting features of the plant mitochondrial genome suggest that adaptive changes have occurred in DNA maintenance and transmission that will provide insight into unique aspects of plant mitochondrial biology and mitochondrial-chloroplast coevolution. A search in the Arabidopsis genome for genes involved in the regulation of mitochondrial DNA metabolism revealed a region of chromosome III that is unusually rich in genes for mitochondrial DNA and RNA maintenance. An apparently similar genetic linkage was observed in the rice genome. Several of the genes identified within the chromosome III interval appear to target the plastid or to be targeted dually to the mitochondria and the plastid, suggesting that the process of endosymbiosis likely is accompanied by an intimate coevolution of these two organelles for their genome maintenance functions.
Ultrastructural and genetic evidence of a reptilian tick, Aponomma hydrosauri, as a host of Rickettsia honei in Australia: possible transovarial transmission.	In 1993, a novel rickettsia was isolated from the blood of inhabitants of Flinders Island, Australia, with acute febrile illnesses. This rickettsia was found to be a new species of spotted fever group (SFG) rickettsia, eventually named Rickettsia honei. The suspected ectoparasite vector of this rickettsia has yet to be identified. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the presence of this rickettsial species in a suspected tick vector, Aponomma hydrosauri, by DNA sequencing and electron microscopy (EM). Ticks collected from an Australian blue-tongued lizard on Flinders Island and a copperhead snake in Tasmania were demonstrated to be infected with R. honei by PCR, DNA sequencing, and EM. Rickettsiae were found in ultrathin sections of salivary glands, malpighian tubules, and midgut epithelial cells. In a previous study with a R. honei-infected tick from Flinders Island, rickettsiae were found in the nuclei of midgut epithelial cells, and EM also revealed the presence of rickettsiae in the cytosol of oocytes and immature eggs, suggesting transovarial transmission. These results implicate A. hydrosauri as a possible host of R. honei on Flinders Island and Tasmania and also provide evidence favoring transovarial maintenance of R. honei.
Ehrlichiosis and rickettsiosis in a canine population of Northern Sardinia.	Ehrlichiosis and rickettsiosis are very common, widespread diseases. These diseases are present in Sardinia year round because its temperate weather permits the survival of many kinds of tick vectors. A thousand dogs were subjected to physical, hematological, biochemical examinations and serological tests. All 1,000 sera were analyzed by indirect immunofluorescence antibody test to detect antibodies against E. canis and R. rickettsii. A high seroprevalence (about 50%) was detected for both etiological agents, without differences in relation to sex, breed, or usage. A high seroprevalence, corresponding to 62.5% for ehrlichiosis and 64% for rickettsiosis, was observed in the age group of 13-60 months. The mortality was greatest in the males in the age group, which manifested the disease in the chronic phase.
Genetic diversity of bacterial agents detected in ticks removed from asymptomatic patients in northeastern Italy.	A total of 360 ticks were removed from 353 asymptomatic subjects in Belluno Province, Italy and surrounding areas, from 1998 to 2001. Ticks were identified as Ixodes ricinus (357), Ixodes hexagonus (1), Rhipicephalus sanguineus (1), and Ixodes ventalloi (1). Tick DNA was investigated by PCR and subsequent sequencing of amplified products to identity associated bacterial agents. Primers targeting different genes of Rickettsia (gltA and OmpA), Borrelia (16S rDNA, rpoB), Francisella (16S rDNA), and all genera members of the Anaplasmataceae (16S rDNA), were used. DNA of bacterial agents was identified in 28 Ixodes ricinus specimens (7.8%). Rickettsia helvetica was detected in 7 ticks. Rickettsia sp. IRS4 and Borrelia afzelii was detected in 4 ticks each. B. garinii and B. valaisiana were identified in one tick each. Anaplasma phagocytophilum, the agent of human granulocytic ehrlichiosis, was identified in 1 specimen of I. ricinus. A new Ehrlichia sp. ("Candidatus Ehrlichia walkerii", sp. nov.) was identified in 10 I. ricinus specimens.
Interactions between rickettsiae and Dermacentor variabilis ticks: analysis of gene expression.	Tick-borne spotted fever group rickettsiae are maintained in nature primarily through transstadial and transovarial transmission in their vector. In the tick, Dermacentor variabilis, the infection of, and persistence within, the ovaries are critical steps in the transmission cycle of rickettsiae from one generation to the next. Although ixodid ticks can experimentally maintain several species of rickettsiae, often only a single species is maintained transovarially. The molecular mechanisms underlying exclusion processes are unknown. In this study, an attempt to identify the molecules that may be involved in rickettsial adhesion to tick cells was carried out. Monoclonal antibodies to mammalian alpha and beta subunits of integrins were used to screen a lambda phage library, constructed from uninfected tick ovarian tissues. Positive plaques for both alpha and beta integrins were identified. For one integrin, beta(3), the plaque was isolated and the insert sequenced. The role of these molecules, identified by library screening, in rickettsial infection and survival are discussed.
From genes to proteins: in vitro expression of rickettsial proteins.	The availability of the complete genome sequences of several organisms allows the comparative analysis of genomes, a branch of bioinformatics known as genomics. With this approach, much can be learned about the biology of organisms that are difficult to culture, even when few, if any, of their proteins have been isolated and studied directly. We have focused our interest on Rickettsia conorii, an obligate intracellular bacterium responsible for Mediterranean spotted fever, a disease endemic in southern Europe. While bioinformatic annotation of the complete genome of this bacteria has allowed identification of 1,374 genes, a large number of them remain functionally uncharacterized. The final goal of many experiments in molecular biology is to use biological systems to synthesize the protein encoded by the gene being studied. Because three-dimensional structures are more resilient to evolution and change than amino acid sequences, structure determination of some open reading frames should also exhibit structural similarity to previously described protein families. We have thus initiated a systematic expression and structure determination program for the proteins encoded by rickettsial genes of interest. We have cloned different genes of R. conorii by recombinational cloning (GATEWAY), Invitrogen) a method that uses in vitro site-specific recombination to accomplish a directional cloning of PCR products and the subsequent automatic subcloning of the DNA segment into new vector backbones at high efficiency. The constructions in p-Dest17 yielded several clones able to express recombinant proteins with a C-terminal histidine tag. Expression of corresponding proteins was then performed using a cell-free protein expression system (Rapid Translation System, RTS, Roche Diagnostics). The recombinational cloning approach coupled to RTS provides an approach to rapid optimization of protein expression and is very useful to express rickettsial proteins. Moreover, this system is able to overcome some of the limitations encountered with rickettsial proteins highly toxic for E. coli or insect cells.
Problems and perspectives of molecular epidemiology of infectious diseases.	Current tendencies and problems of molecular biology and its application in infectious diseases are discussed. Basic stages of the development of molecular epidemiology as a leading tool for epidemiological studies are reviewed. More than 30 years ago, molecular epidemiology was first used to study nosocomial infections. Special attention is given to the achievements of Russian scientists, especially in the discovery of Astrakhan spotted fever Rickettsia, noncultured forms of Vibrio cholerae, and the microorganism "Montezuma." Also, the development of PCR-based methods of identification and typing of Mycobacterium tuberculosis by Russian specialists and its significant role in strategies for diagnosing and treatment of tuberculosis are discussed. Now, the most important field of application of molecular biology methods is bacterial evolution, especially with regard to pathogenic microorganisms and emerging infections. Searching for the novel pathogenic agents, establishment of the infectious nature of diseases with unclear origin, and determining the precise mechanisms of pathogenicity are most intriguing issues. So, molecular biology should play a major role both in clinical and research fields.
Identification of spotted fever group rickettsiae using polymerase chain reaction and restriction-endonuclease length polymorphism analysis.	In order to facilitate the isolation and identification of spotted fever group (SFG) rickettsiae from their tick vectors, we used the centrifugation shell vial technique or traditional isolation procedures and genotypic identification using the restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of polymerase chain amplified fragments. The presence of Rickettsia conorii both in Rhipicephalus sanguineus ticks collected in southern France, and in Rhipicephalus simus and Haemaphysalis leachi from Zimbabwe was demonstrated. This procedure seems to be of particular interest for studying the epidemiology and ecology of SFG rickettsiae.
Genotypic identification of rickettsiae and estimation of intraspecies sequence divergence for portions of two rickettsial genes.	DNA sequences from specific genes, amplified by the polymerase chain reaction technique, were used as substrata for nonisotopic restriction endonuclease fragment length polymorphism differentiation of rickettsial species and genotypes. The products amplified using a single pair of oligonucleotide primers (derived from a rickettsial citrate synthase gene sequence) and cleaved with restriction endonucleases were used to differentiate almost all recognized species of rickettsiae. A second set of primers was used for differentiation of all recognized species of closely related spotted fever group rickettsiae. The procedure circumvents many technical obstacles previously associated with identification of rickettsial species. Multiple amplified DNA digest patterns were used to estimate the intraspecies nucleotide sequence divergence for the genes coding for rickettsial citrate synthase and a large antigen-coding gene of the spotted fever group rickettsiae. The estimated relationships deduced from these genotypic data correlate reasonably well with established rickettsial taxonomic schemes.
New epidemiological data on Brazilian spotted fever in an endemic area of the state of São Paulo, Brazil.	The present work evaluated rickettsial infection in dogs and their ticks in an area endemic for Brazilian spotted fever (BSF) in the metropolitan area of São Paulo, Brazil, where the tick Amblyomma aureolatum was presumed to be the vector of the disease. Ticks were collected on dogs from 185 houses, encompassing single infestations by Rhipicephalus sanguineus, Amblyomma aureolatum, Amblyomma longirostre, or Amblyomma sp. in dogs from 60 (32.4%), 77 (41.6%), 2 (1.1%), and 25 (13.5%) houses, respectively; 19 (10.3%) houses had dogs with mixed infestations by R. sanguineus and A. aureolatum; 1 (0.5%) house had dogs with infestations by A. aureolatum and A. longirostre; and 1 (0.5%) house had dogs with infestations by R. sanguineus and Amblyomma sp. Overall, A. aureolatum was present in dogs from 97 (52.4%) houses, and R. sanguineus in dogs from 80 (43.2%) houses. A total of 287 ticks (130 A. aureolatum and 157 R. sanguineus) infesting dogs from 98 houses were selected for testing by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) targeting rickettsial genes. Overall, 3.1% of the A. aureolatum ticks were infected by Rickettsia bellii, and 1.3% of the R. sanguineus were infected by Ricketttsii rickettsii. For serology, we selected 23 dogs living in and in the vicinity of the house where the R. rickettsii-infected ticks were collected. The indirect fluorescent antibody (IFA) test detected antibodies reactive with R. rickettsii in sera from 16 (69.6%) dogs, with titers ranging from 256 to 32,768. It is established that Amblyomma aureolatum is a vector of R. rickettsii in the São Paulo metropolitan area, but our results highlight for the first time in Brazil, a possible role of R. sanguineus in the epidemiology of R. rickettsii, corroborating previous findings in Mexico and the United States, where R. sanguineus has been implicated in the transmission of R. rickettsii to humans.
Historical and recent evidence for close relationships among Rickettsia parkeri, R. conorii, R. africae, and R. sibirica: implications for rickettsial taxonomy.	Rickettsia parkeri, a member of the spotted fever group rickettsias, was first described in 1939 and was thought to be non-pathogenic until recently, when it was found to cause a spotted fever-like illness in humans and areas of necrosis (eschars) at the sites of tick bites. Accordingly, there is currently much interest in this emerging pathogen. In this study, all published articles concerning R. parkeri were reviewed and analyzed for evidence of relatedness among this agent and other spotted fever group (SFG) rickettsiae which also produce similar clinical syndromes and/or eschars, including R. conorii, R. africae, and R. sibirica. A synthesis of the historical (antigenic) and recent (molecular) data supporting a phylogenetic sub-grouping of these SFG organisms is presented and comments are offered about the taxonomy of rickettsial organisms in general, and R. parkeri in particular.
Spotted fever group rickettsiae in ticks, Germany.	To explore increased risk for human Rickettsia spp. infection in Germany, we investigated recreational areas and renatured brown coal surface-mining sites (also used for recreation) for the presence of spotted fever group rickettsiae in ticks. R. raoultii (56.7%), R. slovaca (13.3%), and R. helvetica (>13.4%) were detected in the respective tick species.
Rickettsia parkeri in gulf coast ticks, southeastern Virginia, USA.	We report evidence that Amblyomma maculatum tick populations are well established in southeastern Virginia. We found that 43.1% of the adult Gulf Coast ticks collected in the summer of 2010 carried Rickettsia parkeri, suggesting that persons living in or visiting southeastern Virginia are at risk for infection with this pathogen.
Prevalence of Coxiella burnetii and Rickettsia spp. in ticks and rodents in southern Germany.	Coxiella burnetii, the causative agent of Q fever, and Rickettsia spp. are bacterial pathogens that can be transmitted by ticks of the genus Dermacentor (i.e., Dermacentor marginatus and D. reticulatus). In Germany, the occurrence of these ticks is currently limited to few areas. However, due to increasing temperatures, these vectors will likely extend their distribution in the future, and C. burnetii and Rickettsia spp. might spread with them. To assess the prospective risk of human infections by these agents, it is important to know their current distribution. We collected 666 adult Dermacentor spp. and 119 rodents, mainly Microtus arvalis, in 3 Q fever endemic areas in southern Germany. Ticks and rodent organ pools were screened by PCR for C. burnetii and Rickettsia spp. No evidence of C. burnetii infections could be found in ticks or rodents, suggesting that these animals do not play an essential role in the epidemiology of Q fever in Germany. Rickettsia raoultii and R. slovaca could be detected in 30.3% and 0.75% of all examined ticks, respectively. In contrast, no rickettsia infections could be found in any rodent samples. Both rickettsia species can cause tick-borne lymphadenopathy (TIBOLA), a usually mild human disease. Because of the possible transmission of these rickettsiae to humans, TIBOLA should be considered in the differential diagnosis of tick-borne diseases. Our data show that a spread of these rickettsiae is possible in Germany and that more studies on the distribution of these agents are necessary.
Expression of an epitope-tagged virulence protein in Rickettsia parkeri using transposon insertion.	Despite recent advances in our ability to genetically manipulate Rickettsia, little has been done to employ genetic tools to study the expression and localization of Rickettsia virulence proteins. Using a mariner-based Himar1 transposition system, we expressed an epitope-tagged variant of the actin polymerizing protein RickA under the control of its native promoter in Rickettsia parkeri, allowing the detection of RickA using commercially-available antibodies. Native RickA and epitope-tagged RickA exhibited similar levels of expression and were specifically localized to bacteria. To further facilitate protein expression in Rickettsia, we also developed a plasmid for Rickettsia insertion and expression (pRIE), containing a variant Himar1 transposon with enhanced flexibility for gene insertion, and used it to generate R. parkeri strains expressing diverse fluorescent proteins. Expression of epitope-tagged proteins in Rickettsia will expand our ability to assess the regulation and function of important virulence factors.
Rickettsia parkeri: a Rickettsial pathogen transmitted by ticks in endemic areas for spotted fever rickettsiosis in southern Uruguay.	At first Rickettsia conorii was implicated as the causative agent of spotted fever in Uruguay diagnosed by serological assays. Later Rickettsia parkeri was detected in human-biting Amblyomma triste ticks using molecular tests. The natural vector of R. conorii, Rhipicephalus sanguineus, has not been studied for the presence of rickettsial organisms in Uruguay. To address this question, 180 R. sanguineus from dogs and 245 A. triste from vegetation (flagging) collected in three endemic localities were screened for spotted fever group (SFG) rickettsiosis in southern Uruguay. Tick extracted DNA pools were subjected to PCR using primers which amplify a fragment of the rickettsial gltA gene. Positive tick DNA pools with these primers were subjected to a second PCR round with primers targeting a fragment of the ompA gene, which is only present in SFG rickettsiae. No rickettsial DNA was detected in R. sanguineus. However, DNA pools of A. triste were found to be positive for a rickettsial organism in two of the three localities, with prevalences of 11.8% to 37.5% positive pools. DNA sequences generated from these PCR-positive ticks corresponded to R. parkeri. These findings, joint with the aggressiveness shown by A. triste towards humans, support previous data on the involvement of A. triste as vector of human infections caused by R. parkeri in Uruguay.
Role of birds in dispersal of etiologic agents of tick-borne zoonoses, Spain, 2009.	We amplified gene sequences from Anaplasma phagocytophilum, Borrelia garinii, B. valaisiana, B. turdi, Rickettsia monacensis, R. helvetica, R. sibirica sibirica, and Rickettsia spp. (including Candidatus Rickettsia vini) in ticks removed from birds in Spain. The findings support the role of passerine birds as possible dispersers of these tick-borne pathogens.
Detection of Rickettsia helvetica in Ixodes ricinus ticks collected from Pyrenean chamois in France.	Seventy-one Ixodes ricinus ticks collected from Pyrenean chamois (Rupicapra pyrenaica) in the French Pyrenees were tested by real-time polymerase chain reaction to detect the presence of Rickettsia and Bartonella. Four ticks (6%) were positive for R. helvetica. The chamois carries infected ticks, and this enables the dissemination throughout the environment with this bacterium, a potential human pathogen.
Brazilian spotted fever: real-time PCR for diagnosis of fatal cases.	Suspicion of Brazilian spotted fever (BSF) should occur in endemic regions upon surveillance of the acute febrile icteric hemorrhagic syndrome (AFIHS). However, limitations associated with currently available laboratory tests pose a challenge to early diagnosis, especially in fatal cases. Two real-time PCR (qPCR) protocols were evaluated to diagnose BSF in 110 fatal AFIHS cases, collected in BSF-endemic regions in 2009-2010. Of these, 24 were positive and 86 negative by indirect immunofluorescence (IFA) assay (cut-off IgG and/or IgM ≥ 128). DNA from these samples was used in the qPCR protocols: one to detect Rickettsia spp. (citrate synthase gene) and another to determine spotted fever group (SFG) Rickettsia species (OmpA gene). Of the 24 IFA-positive samples, 5 (21%) were positive for OmpA and 9 (38%) for citrate synthase. In the IFA-negative group (n=86), OmpA and citrate synthase were positive in 23 (27%) and 27 (31%), respectively. These results showed that the 2 qPCR protocols were about twice as sensitive as the IFA test alone (93% concordance). In conclusion, qPCR is a sensitive method for the diagnosis of fatal BSF cases and should be considered for routine surveillance of AFIHS in places like Brazil, where spotted fever-related lethality is high and other endemic diseases like dengue and leptospirosis can mislead diagnosis.
First detection of Rickettsia aeschlimannii in Hyalomma dromedarii ticks from Tunisia.	Tick-borne rickettsioses have long been described in North Africa. These human diseases and their causative agents occur in several countries in this region, including Mauritania, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, and Egypt. In Tunisia, the first described and most well-known rickettsiosis is Mediterranean spotted fever, which is caused by Rickettsia conorii conorii. Cases of R. aeschlimannii infections have been documented by serology, but the agent has never actually been detected in patients or arthropods in the country. In October 2008, ticks were collected from a dromedary (Camelius dromedarii) in Douz, Central Tunisia. All of the ticks were identified as Hyalomma dromedarii and were tested using polymerase chain reaction to determine the presence of rickettsiae. Our results indicate the first molecular detection of R. aeschlimannii in ticks from Tunisia.
Genomic analysis of Rickettsia japonica strain YHT.	Rickettsia japonica strain YH, isolated in 1984 in Japan, is the type strain of R. japonica, the tick-borne agent of Japanese spotted fever. Here, we report the 1.33-Mb genome of this rickettsial species.
Early diagnosis of Japan spotted fever by PCR using skin samples.	We studied the suitability of a PCR method using samples of skin and whole blood and serological tests for the early diagnosis of Japan spotted fever (JSF) in its acute and convalescent stages and compared the advantages and disadvantages of these different diagnostic methods. In the acute stage, the percentage of positive results was 91.2 % for the PCR method using skin samples, 52.3 % for the PCR method using whole blood samples, and 40.4 % for the serological tests with IgM. In the convalescent stage, paired serum showed positive results (IgM, 98.5 %; IgG, 94.0 %). [corrected]. The PCR method using samples of skin (eschar) is the most sensitive, specific, and suitable method for promptly and accurately diagnosing JSF in the early stage. Therefore, this method is recommended for early definite diagnosis of JSF in the critical stage.
Detection and localization of Rickettsia sp in mealybug.	Mealybug, Phenacoccus solenopsis Tinsley, is a sap-sucking hemipteran insect. It is an agricultural pest that is now widely distributed in India. In this study we report the presence of Rickettsia from P. solenopsis. We constructed a 16S rRNA gene library to study the bacterial diversity associated with this insect and we found that all the clones from the library were only of Candidatus Tremblaya phenacola. This study also highlights that the normal protocol adopted to study the bacterial diversity from environmental sample, by preparation of a 16S rRNA gene library, does not work when the bacterial population is highly skewed in favor of one bacteria (primary endosymbiont in this case). Hence, we used bacterial genus specific polymerase chain reaction primers to test the presence of any of the widely known secondary endosymbionts associated with insects. We tested for the presence of Cardinium, Rickettsia, Wolbachia, and Arsenophonus in P. solenopsis collected from 10 different locations across India. Only Rickettsia was detected from four locations while we were not able to find any other bacteria. We confirmed the presence of these bacteria by localizing Rickettsia and the primary endosmbiont, Candidatus Tremblaya sp. to the bacteriocyte of P. solenopsis using fluorescent in situ hybridization. 
Comparative evaluation of infected and noninfected Amblyomma triste ticks with Rickettsia parkeri, the agent of an emerging rickettsiosis in the New World.	The distribution of Rickettsia parkeri in South America has been associated with Amblyomma triste ticks. The present study evaluated under laboratory conditions two colonies of A. triste: one started from engorged females that were naturally infected by R. parkeri (designated as infected group); the other started from noninfected females (designated as control group). Both colonies were reared in parallel for five consecutive generations. Tick-naïve domestic rabbits were used for feeding of each tick stage and generation. R. parkeri was preserved by transstadial maintenance and transovarial transmission in A. triste ticks for five consecutive generations, because all tested larvae, nymphs, and adults from the infected group were shown by PCR to contain rickettsial DNA. All rabbits infested by larvae, nymphs, and adults from the infected group seroconverted, indicating that these tick stages were all vector competent for R. parkeri. Expressive differences in mortality rates were observed between engorged nymphs from the infected and control groups, as indicated by 65.9% and 92.4% molting success, respectively. Our results indicate that A. triste can act as a natural reservoir for R. parkeri. However, due to deleterious effect caused by R. parkeri on engorged nymphs, amplifier vertebrate hosts might be necessary for natural long-term maintenance of R. parkeri in A. triste. 
Recombinant protein YbgF induces protective immunity against Rickettsia heilongjiangensis infection in C3H/HeN mice.	Surface proteins YbgF and PrsA are major seroreactive antigens of Rickettsia heilongjiangensis, the etiological agent of Far-Eastern spotted fever. This study investigated their potential immunogenicity for protective immunity.
Comparative sequence analysis of a genus-common rickettsial antigen gene.	The genes encoding the 17-kilodalton genus-common antigen have been cloned and sequenced from Rickettsia conorii, Rickettsia prowazekii, and Rickettsia typhi. Compared with the R. rickettsii sequence, this sequence had a high degree of homology within the coding and control regions (R. conorii, 99.8%; R. prowazekii, 88.1%; R. typhi, 88.7%). The 5' flanking regions, including the promoter and the transcription initiation sites, were extremely well conserved for all four species, suggesting that control and expression of this locus are important to the survival of the rickettsiae.
Cutaneous signs of Rickettsia and related microorganisms]	Rickettsiosis are emerging, life-threatening infectious diseases that are world-wide distributed and have various manifestations. Most of the time, skin involvement is the prominent feature of clinical manifestations. Clinicians must therefore be well aware of these various clinical pictures.
