In situ replacement of infected aortic grafts with rifampicin-bonded prostheses: the Leicester experience (1992 to 1998)	Prosthetic graft infection after aortic aneurysm surgery is a life-threatening complication. Treatment options include total graft excision and extra-anatomic bypass grafting or in situ replacement of the graft. The latter option is gaining increasing popularity, but the long-term outcome remains uncertain, particularly in light of the increasing prevalence of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). We performed a prospective nonrandomized study to assess the outcome after graft excision and in situ replacement with a rifampicin-bonded prosthesis for the treatment of major aortic graft infection.
Respirable PLGA microspheres containing rifampicin for the treatment of tuberculosis: screening in an infectious disease model.	Targeted delivery of rifampicin loaded microspheres to the alveolar macrophage, the host cell for Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), may be an effective targeted approach to pulmonary tuberculosis therapy. A guinea pig infection model has been adopted as a post-treatment screening method for antimicrobial effect. Insufflation and nebulization methods of drug delivery were evaluated.
Fully intermittent dosing with drugs for treating tuberculosis in adults.	The number of people infected with tuberculosis continues to rise worldwide. Rifampicin-containing treatment regimens can achieve high cure rates. Intermittent drug treatment delivered in the community has the potential to improve adherence to treatment.
Inhalable microparticles containing drug combinations to target alveolar macrophages for treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis.	Drug therapy of tuberculosis (TB) requires long-term oral administration of multiple drugs for curing as well as preventing and/ or combating multi-drug resistance. Persistent, high blood levels of antitubercular drugs resulting from prolonged oral administration of anti-TB drugs may be neither necessary nor sufficient to kill mycobacteria residing in macrophages (M4). Inhalable biodegradable microparticles containing two of the first-line anti-TB drugs, isoniazid (H), and rifampicin (R), were prepared and tested for (i) phagocytosis by mouse Mphi. (ii) administration as a dry powder inhalation to rats, and (iii) targeting alveolar Mphi with high drug doses when administered to rats.
MRSA pyomyositis complicating sickle cell anaemia.	A patient being treated for sickle cell crisis developed swollen, painful, indurated, discoloured thighs after several days in hospital. Imaging revealed the presence of multiple small abscesses in the muscle and methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) was cultured from aspirated fluid. Pyomyositis usually occurs in association with damaged muscle and impaired host defences. Staphylococcus is the most frequent organism involved. It is not a common complication of sickle cell disease, although it may be under diagnosed. Availability of advanced imaging techniques facilitates early diagnosis of pyomyositis.
Leprosy. Recognition and treatment.	Leprosy is a slowly progressive, chronic infectious disease caused by the bacillus Mycobacterium leprae. It is a very serious, multilating and stigmatizing disease in many parts of the world and early diagnosis and therapy is the most important strategy for its control. The skin and peripheral nerves are the most affected organs. It is highly infective, but has low pathogenicity and low virulence with a long incubation period. The geographical distribution of leprosy has varied greatly with time and it is now endemic only in tropical and subtropical regions such as India and Brazil. The diagnosis of leprosy is made from the clinical picture, but must be complimented by skin bacilloscopy and histopathology. Leprosy has a number of distinct clinical presentations. Indeterminate leprosy is frequently the initial form consisting of a few lesions that either evolves into the other forms or resolves spontaneously. Lepromatous leprosy is the more contagious form and affects mainly the skin. In addition, some peripheral nerves may be thickened and other symptoms maybe present. The tuberculid form affects the skin and nerves, although usually there are few lesions. There is also a form borderline between the lepromatous and tuberculoid forms. Current treatment of leprosy involves use of 3 drugs: rifampicin (rifampin); clofazimine; and dapsone. Multidrug therapy aims to effectively eliminate M. leprae in the shortest possible time to prevent resistance from occurring. The duration of therapy was recently reduced from 24 to 12 months. Other treatment options are under evaluation in both preclinical and clinical trials and a number show promise. The combination of rifampicin, ofloxacin and minocycline given as a single dose has been recommended for the treatment of paucibacillar leprosy. Only when physicians, other health workers, and the population in endemic countries become fully aware of, and able to recognize, the disease in its initial phase, will it be possible for therapy to be instituted at the very beginning with either the standard scheme or the newer ones. Intervention at such an early stage will avoid the onset of the more serious signs and symptoms, meaning that leprosy will eventually become a less important public health problem. Therefore, efforts must be made to alert populations at risk and all health workers of the importance of an early diagnosis and treatment in leprosy infection.
Effectiveness of once-weekly rifapentine and moxifloxacin regimens against Mycobacterium tuberculosis in mice.	Mice infected with 1.6 x 10(7) CFU of Mycobacterium tuberculosis were treated 14 days later for 6 months with a regimen of once-weekly 10 mg of rifapentine and 75 mg of isoniazid per kg of body weight supplemented with either 150 mg of streptomycin per kg or 100 mg of moxifloxacin per kg during either both the 2-week daily initial and once-weekly continuation phases or only in the daily 2-week initial phase. On completion of treatment, all lung cultures were negative, except for three mice, each with a single colony: two whose rifapentine-isoniazid regimen was supplemented with streptomycin during the whole course of therapy and one whose rifapentine-isoniazid regimen had no initial daily phase, but was supplemented with streptomycin and moxifloxacin during the whole course of therapy. After 3 months of follow-up, positive lung cultures were obtained from 61 and 56% of mice supplemented with streptomycin during either the full course of therapy or only the daily 2-week initial phase, respectively, and 15 and 50% of mice supplemented with moxifloxacin during either the full course of therapy or only the daily 2-week initial phase, respectively. These results suggest that moxifloxacin has sterilizing activity against M. tuberculosis.
Utility of rifampin blood levels in the treatment and follow-up of active pulmonary tuberculosis in patients who were slow to respond to routine directly observed therapy.	The standard daily dose of rifampin in directly observed treatment of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (TB) is 600 mg, taken orally. The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of standard dose rifampin therapy in patients who were slow to respond to routine directly observed therapy (DOT).
An adult case of tuberculous meningitis]	A 36-year-old man was referred to our hospital with complaints of high fever and headache. A diagnosis of miliary tuberculosis with tuberculous meningitis was made. He was treated with isoniazid (400 mg/day), rifampicin (300 mg/day), ethambutol (750 mg/day), pyrazinamide (1.0 g/day) and prednisolone (60 mg/day). However, he lost consciousness because of hydrocephalus on the second day of hospitalization. Emergency cerebrospinal fluid drainage improved his neurological symptoms. After two months, he again complained of headache with nausea and double vision. Numerous tuberculomas were found not only in the cerebrum but also in the liver, the spleen and the retina. Recurrent hydrocephalus was treated with a V-P shunt, and combination therapy with four antituberculous agents was maintained for 18 months. He was discharged in a healthy condition, although a mild left facial palsy remained. In addition, we examined the inflammatory cytokine levels in both the CSF and the serum over the period of the patient's hospitalization. We concluded that the cytokine levels in the CSF may be associated with the progress and the prognosis of tuberculous meningitis.
Cat-scratch disease occurring in three siblings simultaneously.	We report for the first time three siblings with cat-scratch disease occurring simultaneously. Case 1 was an 8-year-old boy with enlarged supraclavicular lymph nodes and fever. Case 2 was the 11-year-old sister whose presentation was a prolonged febrile illness. Case 3 was a 13-year-old male adolescent with adenitis of the neck and thigh. All three patients were treated with rifampin with improvement of their symptoms.
The clearance of theophylline is increased during the initial period of tuberculosis treatment.	To evaluate the effects of combined anti-tuberculosis treatment including isoniazid (INH), rifampicin (RMP), ethambutol (EMB) and pyrazinamide (PZA), on the pharmacokinetics of theophylline during the initial phase of treatment.
Randomized trial of three regimens to prevent tuberculosis in HIV-infected patients with anergy]	To evaluate the efficacy of three regimens of prophylactic therapy for tuberculosis in HIV-infected patients with anergy.
Remission of pulmonary alveolar proteinosis during antituberculosis chemotherapy]	The patient was a 32-year-old man in whom pulmonary tuberculosis had occurred 5 years after the presumptive onset of pulmonary alveolar proteinosis. A diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis was made by sputum smears positive for acid-fast bacilli. Computer tomography of the chest showed ground glass opacities, consolidation and cavitation. Rifampicin, isoniazid and ethambutol were given daily, and streptomycin three times a week. Serial chest radiographs revealed progressive clearing not only of the new but also of the old lung infiltrates thought to be due to pulmonary alveolar proteinosis. Serum LDH and CEA returned to normal values. This case indicates the possibility of improving pulmonary alveolar proteinosis by tuberculosis infection or antituberculosis therapy.
Characterisation of drug release from cubosomes using the pressure ultrafiltration method.	Cubosomes have been proposed as a controlled release, intravenous drug delivery system. The objective of this study was to characterise cubosomes as either a therapeutically useful, controlled release delivery system, or as a burst release carrier such as submicron emulsions. The pressure ultrafiltration method and equilibrium dialysis were used to elucidate the in vitro drug release mechanisms. On dilution of cubosomes, lipophilic compounds were released rapidly when studied by the pressure ultrafiltration method. This agrees with the behaviour predicted from simple diffusion from the bulk non-dispersed cubic phase. In contrast, equilibrium dialysis incorrectly indicated sustained drug release from cubosomes. This study illustrates that cubosomes should be classified as a burst release delivery system where drug is released by diffusion from the cubic phase matrix, and that pressure ultrafiltration may have benefits over dialysis methods for measurement of drug release from colloidal particle-based drug delivery systems.
New choices for central venous catheters: potential financial implications.	To determine the cost-effectiveness of the newer antiseptic and antibiotic-impregnated central venous catheters (CVCs) relative to uncoated CVCs and to each other.
Effectiveness of multidrug therapy in multibacillary leprosy: a long-term follow-up of 34 multibacillary leprosy patients treated with multidrug regimens till skin smear negativity.	The World Health Organization (WHO) Field Trials of multidrug therapy (MDT) started at Schieffelin Leprosy Research and Training Centre (SLR & IC), Karigiri, India in December 1981. The patients were treated with two MDT regimens. The first (regimen A) consisted of 600mg rifampicin and 300mg of clofazimine given under supervision on 2 consecutive days monthly, 225mg injection of acedapsone bimonthly and dapsone 100mg daily. The second regimen (regimen B) was the conventional MDT (WHO/MDT), rifampicin 600mg and clofazimine 300mg supervised once a month, dapsone 100mg and clofazimine 50mg daily, unsupervised. Both the regimens were administered for a minimum period of 2 years or until skin smear negativity, whichever occurred later. Thirty-four newly detected previously untreated MB patients, 16 of whom received regimen A and 18 regimen B, were reassessed. Both regimens were well accepted and well tolerated by the patients. Clofazimine discolouration was the only adverse effect of MDT seen in these patients. After completion of treatment with MDT, the patients were followed up for a total duration of 466 person-years with a mean of 13.7 +/- 1.4 years per patient. No relapse was seen.
Fixed dose combination short course chemotherapy in the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis.	In this study two highly effective chemotherapeutic regimens of 6 and 8 months duration were studied and compared with the standard 12 month therapy under full supervision at the National TB Centre and St. Peter's TB Hospital in Addis Abeba. Patients with direct smear positive pulmonary tuberculosis were admitted to hospital during the initial phase of treatment for two months. At two months, sputum conversion rates, by direct smear and culture respectively, were 82% and 80% on Rifater, and 86 or 88% and 86% on the regimens containing separate preparations of isoniazid rifampicin and pyrazinamide, compared to 60% and 30% on the standard regimen. It was concluded that short course regimens of six or eight months with drugs either in combined form or separate preparations are more effective than the standard regimen.
Drug interaction between rifampicin, isoniazid and cotrimoxazole in rabbits.	1 The results of cotrimoxazole (CTZ) co-administration (15 mg kg-1 trimethoprim + 40 mg kg-1 sulphamethoxazole) on plasma concentration and various pharmacokinetic parameters of rifampicin (RIF, 24 mg kg-1) and isoniazid (INH, 14 mg kg-1) were studied. 2 In the test group (n = 6), CTZ was administered on the 24th day of antitubercular treatment (ATT) and given for 7 d. 3 At the end of concurrent treatment with CTZ, RIF half-life (t1/2) and plasma concentration were both increased. However, there was no effect on INH half-life and plasma concentration.
Short-course treatment regimen to identify potential antituberculous agents in a murine model of tuberculosis.	Designing a more rapid method to test antimycobacterial agents in a murine model would significantly improve the drug development process. We describe a short-course in vivo treatment model that could be used to screen potential antituberculous drugs.
Unexpected complication in an elderly lady suffering from rheumatoid arthritis]	A 66-year old female suffering from rheumatoid arthritis was treated with methotrexate and intra-articular steroid injections. She had gone through pulmonary tuberculosis at the age of 2 years, also, surgery had been performed 2 years ago because of perforated sigmoid diverticulitis. The patient now presented with episodes of abdominal pain and diarrhea as well as occasional night sweats. Laboratory investigation (normal BSR, CRP and white blood cell counts) did not indicate the presence of an inflammatory process, such as reoccurrence of diverticulitis. However, leukocyturia was repetitively found in this patient with the conventional urine culture yielding no significant bacterial growth. Further urine investigation did not indicate infection with Chlamydia trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Ziehl Neelson stains of morning urinary samples did not show acid-fast rods, however, Mycobacterium tuberculosis was finally isolated by culture. Thus, urogenital tuberculosis was finally diagnosed in this patient. Infection, hematogenic dissemination, and spontaneous remission of pulmonary tuberculosis had occurred more than 60 years ago. After a long latent period, reactivation of tuberculosis happened during drug-induced immunosuppression. The patient was successfully treated with an anti-tuberculosis triple-drug therapy during 2 months followed by a double-drug therapy during 4 months.
Subcutaneous nanoparticle-based antitubercular chemotherapy in an experimental model.	Poly (DL-lactide-co-glycolide) (PLG) nanoparticles encapsulating three front-line antitubercular drugs, i.e. rifampicin, isoniazid and pyrazinamide, were prepared by the multiple emulsion technique and administered subcutaneously to mice for pharmacokinetic/chemotherapeutic study. A single subcutaneous dose of drug-loaded PLG nanoparticles resulted in sustained therapeutic drug levels in the plasma for 32 days and in the lungs/spleen for 36 days. The mean residence time and absolute bioavailability were increased several-fold as compared with unencapsulated drugs. Further, drug-loaded PLG nanoparticles resulted in undetectable bacterial counts in the lungs and spleen of Mycobacterium tuberculosis-infected mice, thereby demonstrating a better chemotherapeutic efficacy, as compared with daily free drug treatment. Hence, injectable PLG nanoparticles hold promise for increasing drug bioavailability and reducing dosing frequency for better management of tuberculosis.
Disposition of uric acid upon administration of ofloxacin alone and in combination with other anti-tuberculosis drugs.	Disposition of uric acid upon administration of ofloxacin (O) alone and in combination with other anti-tuberculosis drugs, rifampicin (R), isoniazid (H) and pyrazinamide (Z) was studied. Twelve male healthy volunteers were investigated on four different occasions with the four drugs alone or in combinations. A partially balanced incomplete block design was adopted and the subjects were randomly allocated to each group. Uric acid concentration in urine samples excreted over 0-8 hr, were determined after coding the samples. There was significant decrease in the group receiving Z when compared to other groups. Though there was a decrease in uric acid excretion in the group receiving O, it was not statistically significant. Rifampicin and H seem to increase the uric acid excretion. The incidence of arthralgia was mainly due to Z and not due to either O or other drugs in the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis.
A case of pulmonary tuberculosis associated with severe skin eruption, prominent eosinophilia, and liver dysfunction induced by streptomycin]	A 42-year-old woman was admitted because of cough, sputum, and fever. A chest roentgenogram revealed a nodular density in the left upper lung field with satellite lesions compatible with tuberculoma. Mycobacterium tuberculosis was detected from sputum. Five weeks after starting the treatment with 0.4 g/day of isoniazid, 0.45 g/day of rifampicin, and 0.75 g/day of streptomycin, she showed itching erythema in the trunk. The white blood cell count was 4,500/mm3 with 14% eosinophils, and serum transaminases were slightly increased (GOT 101 U/L, GPT 74 U/L). Although isoniazid and rifampicin were stopped, the erythema with exfoliation spread to her extremities, suggesting exfoliative dermatitis. The white blood cell count reached 15,990/mm3 with 68% eosinophils (10,810/mm3). Stimulation indices measured with the lymphocyte stimulation test (LST) were 109% with rifampicin, 140% with isoniazid, and 275% with streptomycin, suggesting streptomycin-induced allergy. After cessation of streptomycin, the symptoms gradually improved. After the reaction had subsided, the treatment with isoniazid, rifampicin, and ethambutol was resumed, but she showed no further adverse reactions. LST seems to be very useful to identify the drug or drugs responsible for the reactions occurred during the treatment by antituberculosis drugs.
Initial experience with antibiotic-impregnated silicone catheters for shunting of cerebrospinal fluid in children.	Infection is a major complication of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) shunting procedures. Recently, rifampin-impregnated and clindamycin-impregnated silicone catheters have been developed in an attempt to prevent and/or reduce the incidence of shunt infections. In vitro and in vivo animal studies have shown their efficacy in reducing bacterial colonization of catheters. However, these shunts are yet to be evaluated in clinical trials and their safety and efficacy in preventing shunt infections is unknown.
VapB-positive Rhodococcus equi infection in an HIV-infected patient in Japan.	Rhodococcus equi, a bacterium present in soil, is a common cause of pneumonia in foals. This organism has been recognized as an opportunistic pathogen in humans, typically causing infection in immunocompromised hosts such as HIV-infected patients and organ transplant recipients. However, human infection with R. equi has not been reported in Japan except in a case involving a laboratory worker. We report the first human case of VapB-positive R. equi pneumonia, which involved an HIV-infected patient living in an urban area in Japan. The patient was treated successfully with 450 mg rifampicin and 600 mg tosufloxacin, even though his CD4+ lymphocyte count at the time of diagnosis was 10/microl. The patient's dogs were suspected in the epidemiology of this infection, but unfortunately we could not isolate the organism from canine-associated specimens in this case. R. equi infections in companion animals have been thought to be very rare, but they may be increasing in dogs. Therefore, further epidemiological research may clarify the prevalence of R. equi infection and the factors predisposing dogs to this infection.
Treatment outcome of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis among Vietnamese immigrants.	To review the outcome for MDR-TB treatment among potential migrants from Vietnam.
Erythema nodosum and adenopathy in a 15-year-old boy: uncommon signs of cat scratch disease]	Erythema nodosum rarely occurs in childhood and can be caused by cat scratch disease, as a result of agent Bartonella henselae. We report the case of a teenager who presented erythema nodosum and bilateral inguinal adenitis. Cat scratch disease diagnosis was confirmed by anti-Bartonella henselae serologies. Despite an appropriate antibiotic therapy, evolution was unfavourable with adenitis abcédation requiring surgical drainage.
Leprosy in Africa. Current status and epidemiological significance]	The introduction briefly describes the pathogenesis, classification, diagnosis and modern treatment possibilities. In Africa leprosy is considered endemic. The World Health Organization estimates the total number of cases at 3.5 million. Over the last 20 years, however, the recorded number of cases has decreased dramatically. Increasing mobility on the part of the population, relocation from countryside to the cities, and a tendency towards urbanization are introducing a new dimension to leprosy distribution and the fight against the disease in Africa. Despite the not-inconsiderable financial, material and human resources that have so far been made available--mostly from outside the country--only a small percentage of the presumptive number of leprosy sufferers are receiving an adequate, modern combination therapy. This means that leprosy continues to represent a serious public and individual health problem in Africa.
Relapse and acquired rifampin resistance in HIV-infected patients with tuberculosis treated with rifampin- or rifabutin-based regimens in New York City, 1997-2000.	The relationship between rifamycin use and either relapse or treatment failure with acquired rifampin resistance (ARR) among human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients with tuberculosis (TB) is not well understood.
Pulmonary infection caused by Mycobacterium gordonae (M. gordonae) in a healthy middle-aged male]	A 51-year-old man was admitted to our hospital in July 1989 because of an abnormality in his chest radiograph. On his yearly health check-up, an abnormality of his chest radiography was first noted in June 1988. At that time, examinations including bronchoscopy were performed but no specific diagnosis was made. On admission, his chest radiograph revealed new infiltrates at the apex of the right lung which were not present in June 1988. Three out of 5 consecutive sputum specimens after admission produced a pure growth of 100 colonies to 1+ of acid-fast bacilli (AFB). This AFB was scotochromogenic, and hydrolysis of Tween 80 at 5 days was positive. It did not reduce nitrate, and niacin test was negative. It was sensitive to ethambutol at a concentration of 5 micrograms/ml, and was not tolerant to 0.2% picric acid. We thus identified this AFB to be M. gordonae. The patient was treated with rifampicin (450 mg/day), isoniazid (400 mg/day), and ethambutol (1000 mg/day) for 9 months. After 2 months of treatment the sputum cultures became negative, and the chest radiograph showed improvement of the infiltrates. M. gordonae is considered to be one of the least pathogenic AFB to man. Most recent reports of M. gordonae infection have been in immunocompromized hosts or patients with a history of pulmonary tuberculosis. The present case is a very rare example of this organism affecting a healthy male, and thus yields new information on the pathogenesis of M. gordonae in man.
Effectiveness of a liposomal form of rifampicin in the treatment of experimental tuberculosis in mice]	The therapeutic effectiveness of rifampicin as a free form and a component of multilamellar phosphatidylcholine cholesterol liposomes was studied on a model of generalized tuberculosis in BALB/c mice. Rifampicin as a liposomal form was found to have no advantages over its free form. Possible mechanisms of the phenomenon and prospects for using liposomes in the chemotherapy of tuberculosis are discussed.
Renal tuberculosis treated with rifampicin, isoniazid and ofloxacin]	We describe the results of eight patients with renal tuberculosis treated with rifampin, isoniazid and ofloxacin. Ofloxacin was given orally, 200 mg b.i.d. for 6 months. During the first three months, rifampin (600 mg/daily) and isoniazid (330 mg/daily) were added. All M. tuberculosis strains isolated were sensitive to ofloxacin (MIC 1 mg/l). Follow-up cultures turned to be negative rapidly (during the first month of therapy), and no untoward effects were recorded. All patients had a 12-months follow-up period, and all were clinically cured. The treatment used was well accepted by all patients.
The chemoprophylaxis of cerebrospinal meningitis using rifampin in a military population.	Since February 5th 1990, the prevention of secondary cases of cerebrospinal meningitis (CSM) in France has been obtained by the use of rifampin. Following the detection of a case of N. meningitidis of antigenic formula B:NT:P1.15,16 in a military population, 89 contacts subjects received 600 mg rifampin twice a day during 2 days. Meningococcal carriage rate was investigated by nasopharyngeal swab sampling of the 89 subjects and 62 non-contact controls from the same community. Twenty-three days after the initial case of meningitis, carriage rate was 5.6% for treated subjects and 37.1 for controls. Sero-grouping, serotyping and subtyping failed to detect the initial virulent strain; it demonstrated the heterogeneity of circulating strains. Since rifampin-resistant mutants may occur, two strains in the treated group, it is essential that chemoprophylaxis in a community be limited strictly to the contact subjects.
Combination chemotherapy with the nitroimidazopyran PA-824 and first-line drugs in a murine model of tuberculosis.	The creation of new chemotherapeutic regimens that permit shortening the duration of treatment is a major priority for antituberculosis drug development. In this study, we used the murine model of experimental tuberculosis therapy to determine whether incorporation of the investigational new nitroimidazopyran PA-824 into the standard first-line regimen has the potential to shorten the 6-month duration of treatment. As demonstrated previously, PA-824 alone had significant bactericidal activity over the first 2 months of treatment. Moreover, the substitution of PA-824 for isoniazid led to significantly lower lung CFU counts after 2 months of treatment and to more rapid culture-negative conversion compared to the standard regimen of rifampin, isoniazid, and pyrazinamide. Despite this, there was no difference in the proportion of mice relapsing after completing 6 months of therapy (2 of 19 mice treated with PA-824 in place of isoniazid relapsed versus 0 of 46 mice treated with the standard regimen). Meanwhile, no other PA-824-containing regimen tested was superior to the standard regimen on any assessment. Thus, we were unable to establish a clear role for PA-824 in a treatment-shortening regimen that includes two or more of the current first-line drugs. Future preclinical studies should include the evaluation of novel combinations of PA-824 with new drug candidates in addition to existing antituberculosis drugs for their potential to substantially improve the treatment of both drug-susceptible and multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
Treatment of acute post-surgical infection of joint arthroplasty.	The best antibiotic regimen for acute prosthetic joint infection, treated without removal of the implant, has not been well-defined. This study describes the use of a protocol based on oral rifampicin combinations to treat 47 cases that were followed prospectively for a 2-year period. The regimen used most commonly was levofloxacin 500 mg/24 h plus rifampicin 600 mg/24 h for a mean duration of 2.7 +/- 1 months. The cure rate was 76.9%, and the only independent risk-factor associated with treatment failure was infection caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus or Enterococcus spp. (OR 17.6, p 0.003). Overall, the results suggested that use of oral antibiotics, including rifampicin, for 2-3 months was a good treatment option.
Prospective, randomized inpatient study of oral metronidazole versus oral metronidazole and rifampin for treatment of primary episode of Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea.	To date, no randomized trial to address the use of adjunctive rifampin in addition to metronidazole for the treatment of Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea has been reported. Rifampin has excellent in vitro activity against C. difficile and penetrates into cellular materials where the organisms may persist.
Comparative efficacy of drug regimens in skin tuberculosis.	Three antituberculous drug regimens have been employed to study the therapeutic response in 90 patients with any one of the commonly encountered paucibacillary forms of skin tuberculosis, namely lupus vulgaris, tuberculosis verrucosa cutis and scrofuloderma. The first two regimens contained rifampicin, isoniazid and either pyrazinamide or thiacetazone, and the third regimen had rifampicin and isoniazid only. The disease was clinically defined as localized when confined to one area and widespread when the lesions were disseminated. The observations revealed that the response of lupus vulgaris and tuberculosis verrucosa cutis was alike in all the three regimens, with the localized lesions subsiding completely after 4 months of therapy and the more extensive forms taking 5 months. Patients with scrofuloderma responded similarly to both the triple drug regimens. The discharge, sinuses and ulcers cleared in 6 months but the lymph nodes took longer to regress, up to 7 months in localized and 9 months in more widespread scrofuloderma. To obtain the same results with rifampicin and isoniazid, all patients with widespread scrofuloderma and one-third of those with localized forms had to be treated for 10 and 9 months, respectively. No serious drug side-effects, apart from giddiness with rifampicin and acneiform eruptions with thiacetazone, were encountered. No instances of relapse were noted in the 50% of patients who were followed-up for 3 1/2 years after therapy. Single-drug therapy with isoniazid for lupus vulgaris, as given in the past, is to be discouraged as it may promote the emergence of drug-resistant bacilli in those with an undetected focus of infection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Nevirapine levels after discontinuation of rifampicin therapy and 60-week efficacy of nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected patients with tuberculosis.	Seventy patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and tuberculosis coinfection who initiated nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy and had trough nevirapine levels determined while receiving rifampicin were enrolled in a study. After discontinuation of rifampicin therapy, mean nevirapine levels (+/- standard deviation) increased from 5.4+/-3.5 mg/L to 6.4+/-3.4 mg/L (P=.047), but no nevirapine-related adverse events occurred. There was no statistically significant difference in 60-week antiviral efficacy between these patients and patients receiving nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy alone (P>.05).
Randomized controlled trial of chlorhexidine gluconate for washing, intranasal mupirocin, and rifampin and doxycycline versus no treatment for the eradication of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus colonization.	Eradication of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) carriage may reduce the risk of MRSA infection and prevent transmission of the organism to other patients.
Colistin offers prolonged survival in experimental infection by multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii: the significance of co-administration of rifampicin.	The effect of colistin on bacterial eradication and survival was tested in experimental infection by multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii. The thigh infection model was applied in 86 neutropenic Wistar rats. Six rats were used for the induction of neutropenia and for the selection of the dose regimen of colistin; the remainder was equally divided into four groups: A, controls; B, rifampicin; C, colistin; and D, both agents. Therapy was administered 5 h after bacterial challenge; 5mg/kg of rifampicin was administered intravenously and 3mg/kg of colistin intramuscularly. Survival was recorded in 10 animals of each group. The remaining 10 rats per group were killed 4h after therapy; blood and tissue samples were sampled. Median survival of animals of groups A, B, C and D was 2.00, 2.50, 4.00 and 4.00 days, respectively (P=0.0048 between A and C and P=0.0012 between A and D. Mortality rates after 6 days of follow-up were 100, 100, 100 and 70%, respectively (P=0.018 between groups). Statistically significant decreases of bacteria were found in blood, liver, lung and spleen of group B compared with A; in lung of group C compared with A; and in blood and liver of group D compared with A. Colistin was effective in prolonging survival in an experimental thigh infection by multidrug-resistant A. baumannii in neutropenic rats. Its activity was enhanced after co-administration with rifampicin. These results mandate the application of colistin in the event of infections by multidrug-resistant pathogens and the need for its co-administration with rifampicin.
Treatment of staphylococcal prosthetic joint infections with debridement, prosthesis retention and oral rifampicin and fusidic acid.	There is growing evidence of the efficacy of treating early staphylococcal infections of prosthetic joints with surgical debridement and prosthesis retention, combined with oral antibiotic regimens that include rifampicin in combination with a fluoroquinolone. With rising rates of fluoroquinolone-resistant staphylococci, evidence concerning the efficacy of alternative combinations of antibiotics is required. Twenty patients with staphylococcal prosthetic joint infections who had been treated with surgical debridement and prosthesis retention, and a combination of rifampicin and fusidic acid were analysed. The mean duration of symptoms before initial debridement was 16 (range 2-75) days. The median time of follow-up was 32 (range 6-76) months. Treatment failure occurred in two patients. The cumulative risk of treatment failure after 1 year was 11.76% (95% CI 3.08-39.40%). Two patients had their treatment changed because of nausea. Ten of 11 patients with infections involving methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus had successful outcomes. Debridement without prosthesis removal, in combination with rifampicin and fusidic acid treatment, was effective and should be considered for patients with early staphylococcal prosthetic joint infections, including those with infections involving fluoroquinolone-resistant organisms.
Optimum conditions for efficient phagocytosis of rifampicin-loaded PLGA microspheres by alveolar macrophages.	We examined the phagocytic activities of alveolar macrophages (NR8383 cells) toward poly(lactic-co-glycolic) acid (PLGA) microspheres (MS) loaded with the anti-tuberculosis agent rifampicin (RFP), the sizes of which were between 1 microm and 10 microm. We found that 1) the phagocytosis was dependent greatly on the particle size and the number of particles added; 2) macrophages phagocytosed considerably the PLGA microspheres loaded with RFP, the diameter of which was between 1 microm and 6 microm, but took up few 10-microm particles; 3) the population of the macrophages that phagocytosed 1-microm or 3-microm particles was larger than that of those phagocytosed 6- or 10-microm particles; 4) a considerable population of macrophages were not able to phagocytose even the 1- and 3-microm particles; 5) the most efficient deliveries of RFP into each macrophage cell and a large population of macrophages were achieved by the phagocytosis of 3-microm particles; and 6) phagocytosis did not affect macrophage viability in 4 h after the start of phagocytosis.
Chromosomal composition of micronuclei in mouse bone marrow treated with rifampicin and nicotine, analyzed by multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization with pancentromeric DNA probe.	The mechanism underlying the induction of micronuclei induced by rifampicin and nicotine in mouse bone marrow was investigated by fluorescence in situ hybridization assay using mouse minor satellite DNA probe. Colchicine and mitomycin, known to be predominantly clastogenic and aneugenic, respectively were used as positive controls and these compounds produced the expected responses. In animals treated with different doses of rifampicin (10-320 mg/kg), the frequencies of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes (MNPCE) increased significantly after treatment with 160 and 320 mg/kg. Furthermore, rifampicin caused a significant depression of erythroblast proliferation at the high dose. At the two highest doses of 160 and 320 mg/kg rifampicin, a total of 0.96% and 1.44% MNPCE, respectively were found. Of the rifampicin-induced signal-positive MNPCE, an average of 58.1% of them was centromere-negative, reflecting the clastogenic activity of rifampicin. Correspondingly, about 41.9% of induced MNPCE were centromere-positive, representing the aneugenic activity of rifampicin. Eight and 16 mg/kg of nicotine induced 0.84% and 1.2% MNPCE, respectively, and of these an average of 29.5% showed one or more fluorescent signals, reflecting the predominant clastogenic activity of nicotine. The results obtained demonstrate that rifampicin induced both chromosome breakage and numerical chromosomal abnormalities, whereas nicotine induced one type of MNPCE and it could be considered a clastogenic agent.
Reduction in shunt infection using antibiotic impregnated CSF shunt catheters: an Australian prospective study.	Antibiotic impregnated shunt catheters have emerged as a promising tool against the continuing challenge of shunt infection. We present our prospective evaluation of the efficacy of antibiotic (rifampicin and clindamycin) impregnated cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) shunt catheters (AIC) in a mixed paediatric and adult Australian population. We have prospectively evaluated all the cerebrospinal fluid shunt procedures carried out in our institution over a 3-year period since July 2002, after the introduction of AIC in our practice. Patient demographics, indication for shunt procedure, risk factors for infection, shunt infections and other relevant factors were documented. The data has been compared with similar data collected over the previous 7 years of our experience with non-antibiotic impregnated catheters for CSF shunt procedures. Pearson's chi-square and Fisher's exact tests are used for statistical evaluation. From July 2002 to June 2005, 243 shunt procedures were carried out using AICs in 178 patients. There were three shunt infections (1.2%). Rigorous retrospective evaluation of shunt procedures over the preceding 7 years revealed 36 infections in 551 shunt procedures (6.5%). This reduction in the infection rate was statistically significant (p=0.0015 on Pearson's chi-square test and p=0.000529 on Fisher's exact test). We also report that the introduction of ceftriaxone prophylaxis during this period was associated with a reduction in Gram-negative shunt infection, but no effect on overall infection rate. We report rifampicin and clindamycin impregnated CSF shunt catheters significantly reduce the rate of shunt infection in Australian clinical practice. This data and the literature support the routine usage of AIC for all CSF shunt procedures.
Perspective of pulmonary MAC infection treatment]	Chemotherapy of pulmonary MAC (Mycobacterium avium complex) infection has been almost universally agreed with the multidrugs regimen that contains Clarithromycin (CAM), Rifampin (RFP), Ethambtol (EB), and aminoglycoside in case of advanced stage. One of the reason for the multidrugs regimen which is similar to tuberculous chemotherapy is to inhibit the emersion of resistant MAC strain. The other reasons, enhancement of anti microbial activity and response to polyclonal infection are unique to the MAC chemotherapy. In the current MAC chemotherapy, both CAM and aminoglycoside are main axes because only they can suppress the growth of MAC alone respectively. Efficacy of CAM was revealed through the randomized controlled trials of disseminated MAC infection with HIV and that consequences applied to pulmonary MAC infection treatment. CAM is not effective unless exceed 2 microg/ml blood concentration. RFP decreases CAM blood concentration remarkably, but the regimens contained RFP and CAM are superior clinically to the regimens without RFP. There seemed to be unknown pharmacological mechanisms with RFP. Although the advantage of aminoglycosides is easily achieved high blood concentration, if aminoglycoside dosage is exceed 15 mg/kg, the possibility of auditory disturbance increase. About the duration of MAC chemotherapy, many guidelines recommended that one year continuation after the negative conversion of sputum culture. It is not the evidence but an expert opinion. We often experience recurrences several months later after the all drugs are ceased. The interval days to positive conversion of sputum culture from the day of completion of chemotherapy are randomly distributed with weibull's equation. It suggests that exogenous re-infection may cause the recurrence of pulmonary MAC infection as pointed out by Wallace Jr. Considering these issues, we have the conception of pulmonary MAC infection chemotherapy as follows. 1. Full dose induction chemotherapy (two years). 2. Maintenance chemotherapy (one year). 3. Preventive chemotherapy (one year). These conceptions have to be the problem validated. However, these current chemotherapies are not effective adequately, we need the combination treatment with surgical resection when indicated as a localized focus for example. Generally chemotherapy could not cured the destructed bronchial lesion due to MAC infection as like as local bronchiectasis or cavities. Consequently, the chemotherapy just after the surgical resection of destructed focus is most appropriate period.
Stability of isoniazid, rifampin and pyrazinamide in suspensions used for the treatment of tuberculosis in children.	The stability of monosuspensions, cosuspensions and multisuspensions of isoniazid (INH), pyrazinamide (PZA) and rifampin (RIF) has been evaluated by high pressure liquid chromatography over a period of 28 days both with and without the addition of vitamin C (20 micrograms/ml) and at ambient temperatures of 4 degrees C, 24 degrees C and 40 degrees C. At the end of 28 days greater than 90% of initial concentrations of INH, PZA and RIF in monosuspensions remained unchanged irrespective of ambient temperature as was the case with INH and PZA in cosuspension. The addition of RIF to either INH or PZA in cosuspension or together in multisuspension led to a marked fall in the concentration of one or more of the agents, an effect that was accentuated by the addition of vitamin C. In the case of a multisuspension of INH + RIF + PZA with vitamin C added, 41.7% (4 degrees C), 24.1% (24 degrees C) and 20.3% (40 degrees C) of initial INH concentrations and 1.9% (4 degrees C), 1.3% (24 degrees C) and 0.0% (40 degrees C) of initial RIF concentrations remained detectable after 28 days. The addition of vitamin C to monosuspensions of INH and PZA led to a marked decline in the amount of drug detectable and only in the case of RIF was greater than 90% of initial concentrations of the drug detectable after 28 days. The dispensing of cosuspensions or multisuspensions of antituberculosis agents containing RIF is inadvisable as is the addition of vitamin C in any form.
Alginate nanoparticles as antituberculosis drug carriers: formulation development, pharmacokinetics and therapeutic potential.	Reduction in the dosing frequency of antituberculosis drugs (ATDs) by applying drug delivery technology has the potential to improve the patient compliance in tuberculosis (TB). Alginate (a natural polymer) based nanoparticulate delivery system was developed for frontline ATDs (rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and ethambutol).
Intravascular hemolysis following low dose daily rifampin.	We report two pediatric patients with rifampin-induced hemolysis following treatment with low daily dose rifampin for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). With the increased use of rifampin to treat MRSA, physicians should be aware that patients receiving rifampin therapy are at risk for hemolysis, even at low daily doses.
Dissecting cellulitis of the scalp treated with rifampicin and isotretinoin: case reports.	Dissecting cellulitis of the scalp, or perifolliculitis capitis abscedens et suffodiens, is an uncommon chronic suppurative disease of the scalp manifested by follicular and perifollicular inflammatory nodules that suppurate and undermine, forming intercommunicating sinuses, and leading to scarring alopecia. Treatment generally fails to obtain a permanently successful result; thus, many therapeutic options have been proposed. We report 4 cases of dissecting cellulitis of the scalp successfully treated with oral rifampicin and oral isotretinoin. To our knowledge, this is the first report of oral rifampicin used concomitantly with oral isotretinoin in this disease entity. We also present a brief review of the literature on the topic.
Controlled trial of 2, 4, and 6 months of pyrazinamide in 6-month, three-times-weekly regimens for smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis, including an assessment of a combined preparation of isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide. Results at 30 months. Hong Kong Chest Service/British Medical Research Council.	In a study in Hong Kong 1,386 Chinese patients with sputum smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis were allocated at random to four 6-month regimens of chemotherapy, all given three times weekly from the start and all containing isoniazid (H) and rifampin (R) throughout. Three contained streptomycin (S) for the first 4 months and pyrazinamide (Z) for 2 months (Z2), 4 months (Z4), or 6 months (Z6); the fourth contained pyrazinamide for 6 months but no streptomycin (Z6noS). Every dose of all four regimens was given under the direct supervision of clinic staff on a predominantly outpatient basis. During the later part of the intake patients were allocated at random to be given their HRZ either as a combined formulation (Rifater), each tablet containing 125 mg isoniazid, 100 mg rifampin, and 375 mg pyrazinamide, or as the three drugs separately. Among 892 assessable patients with drug-susceptible strains of tubercle bacilli pretreatment, bacteriologic failure during chemotherapy occurred in 4, all Z6noS (2% of 224; p less than 0.005 for the comparison with the S-containing regimens). During 30 months of follow-up after the end of chemotherapy, bacteriologic relapse occurred in 2 (3%) of 71 Z2, 2 (3%) of 72 Z4, 4 (6%) of 66 Z6, and 6 (9%) of 64 Z6noS patients allocated to Rifater, and in 4 (3%) of 149 Z2, 8 (6%) of 133 Z4, 2 (1%) of 142 Z6, and 6 (4%) of 135 Z6noS patients allocated to separate drugs. In the relapse rates there were no significant differences between the Rifater and separate drug regimens, the different durations of pyrazinamide, or the regimens with and without streptomycin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Assessment of a daily combined preparation of isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide in a controlled trial of three 6-month regimens for smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis. Singapore Tuberculosis Service/British Medical Research Council.	In a study in Singapore 310 patients with sputum smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis were allocated at random to daily chemotherapy with streptomycin, isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide (1) for 2 months (2SHRZ), (2) for 1 month (1SHRZ), or (3) for 2 months without streptomycin (2HRZ). This was followed for all patients by three times weekly isoniazid and rifampin to a total duration of 6 months. During the initial period of daily chemotherapy the patients were also allocated at random to be given their HRZ either as a combined formulation (Rifater), each tablet containing 50 mg isoniazid, 120 mg rifampin, and 300 mg pyrazinamide, or as three separate drugs. During the Rifater versus separate drugs comparison the most common spontaneous complaints were of nausea and vomiting, reported by 8% of 155 patients receiving Rifater and 7% of 155 separate drugs. Other adverse effects were also reported in similar proportions in the two series. Among 271 patients with drug-susceptible strains of tubercle bacilli pretreatment there were no bacteriologic failures during chemotherapy. During 18 months of subsequent follow-up bacteriologic relapse occurred in 3 (7%) of 46 2SHRZ, 2 (5%) of 42 1SHRZ, and 3 (8%) of 40 2HRZ patients allocated to Rifater and in 0 of 47 2SHRZ, 1 (2%) of 46 1SHRZ, and 1 (2%) of 44 2HRZ patients allocated to separate drugs. There was no evidence of therapeutic benefit from continuing SHRZ administration beyond 1 month or from adding streptomycin to HRZ. The relapse rates were slightly higher in the Rifater series (p = 0.04). Further follow-up and results from other studies are therefore needed fully to assess the combined preparation.
Short-course chemotherapy for pulmonary tuberculosis under routine programme conditions: a comparison of regimens of 28 and 36 weeks duration in Algeria. Algerian Working Group/British Medical Research Council Cooperative Study.	Two chemotherapy regimens of 28 weeks (6M) and 36 weeks (8M) duration were compared in patients with previously untreated pulmonary tuberculosis in 30 health districts of Algeria. In the 6M regimen, patients received isoniazid plus rifampicin daily throughout with streptomycin and pyrazinamide in addition for the first 8 weeks. In the 8M regimen patients received isoniazid daily throughout plus rifampicin for the first 16 weeks and streptomycin and pyrazinamide as well for the first 8 weeks. The districts were allocated to apply either the 6M or the 8M regimen to all eligible patients. However, 22% of eligible patients were not admitted, the most common reason being oversight on the part of the personnel in the local health centres. A total of 2218 (977 6M, 1241 8M) patients was admitted and the results were assessed 2 years after the due date of completion of chemotherapy, irrespective of whether or not management had deviated from the study protocol. An appreciable proportion of patients (25% of 6M, 29% of 8M) could not be assessed because they failed to attend for follow-up or the collection of specimens was overlooked or because of difficulties in the transport of specimens to the reference laboratory in Algiers, and a further 5% and 4% of patients died. Of those who were assessable 7 (1%) of 731 6M and 15 (2%) of 875 8M were classified as having an unfavourable response during or after chemotherapy because they had one or more positive cultures. In addition 16 (2%) 6M and 18 (2%) 8M patients had received additional chemotherapy for failure, relapse or the development of non-pulmonary lesions but had achieved a favourable status. Of 1018 (488 6M, 530 8M) patients assessed who had fully sensitive strains pretreatment and completed treatment as planned, 97% in both series had a favourable status 2 years after their chemotherapy was due to be completed. In patients with initial strains resistant to isoniazid the results were less good in the 8M than the 6M series: none of the 19 6M compared with 5 of 26 in the 8M series having an unfavourable outcome suggesting that the duration of rifampicin may have been important in patients with initial isoniazid resistance. A slightly higher proportion of patients on the 8M regimen defaulted during chemotherapy (9.3% compared with 6.7% in the 6M regimen) but there was no difference between the regimens in other measures of compliance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Acute hemolysis and renal failure following discontinuous use of rifampin.	Rifampin is frequently used in the treatment of mycobacterial infections. Intermittent or discontinuous therapy with rifampin has been associated with systemic symptoms referred to as the "flu syndrome" and, less frequently, acute hemolysis and acute renal failure. We report the case of a 73-year-old woman who experienced acute hemolysis and renal failure while being treated with rifampin and ethambutol for a respiratory infection caused by Mycobacterium fortuitum and M. avium-intracellulare. This patient had interrupted her therapy for periods of one week or more due to a rash and flu-like symptoms, which she ascribed to her medications. A review of the literature indicated that these adverse effects of rifampin appear to be immunologically mediated and that the symptoms of the flu syndrome may be due to mild intravascular hemolysis. Intermittent therapy with rifampin should be avoided and noncompliant patients should be given alternative treatment when possible.
Acute uveitis in reversal reactions]	Two cases of acute uveitis have been reported in reversal reactions in lepromatous patients treated with anti-hansenian multidrug therapy with daily rifampicin. This type of eye damage has seldom been reported in reversal reactions.
Comparative multifactorial analysis of combined administration of injection and peroral forms of an antibiotic with a microbial immunomodulator in experimental anthrax]	Comparative efficacy of the use of injection and oral dosage forms of rifampicin in the subtherapeutic doses in combination with peptidoglycan , an immunomodulator of microbial origin, was studied in respect to experimental anthracic infection with application of multifactorial analysis. It was shown that the antibiotic and immunomodulator had a pronounced synergistic effect. Polynomial statistic models were developed and nomograms or equal level curves defining the survival rate and average life-span (ALS) of the experimental animals within a wide range of the antibiotic and immunomodulator doses and the peptidoglycan dosing time were plotted. The combined use of the injection rifampicin in the subtherapeutic doses and the immunomodulator provided a significant increase in the survival rate and ALS, whereas the use of the oral antibiotic in combination with the immunomodulator increased only the ALS and not the survival rate. Multifactorial analysis proved to be an optimal methodical approach to comparative study of various antibiotic dosage forms used in combination with immunomodulators under experimental conditions.
Successful treatment of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related Mycobacterium avium complex disease with a multiple drug regimen including amikacin.	Disease due to Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) typically occurs late in the course of AIDS and is usually disseminated with evidence of multiorgan involvement. Most patients are persistently bacteremic. Previously published studies have noted a poor response to antimycobacterial chemotherapy. We describe successful treatment of MAC disease in an AIDS patient with a multiple drug regimen, including amikacin, clofazimine, rifampin, ethambutol, and ciprofloxacin. This patient, whose presentation and MAC disease course distinctly differ from most published experience, remains clinically and microbiologically MAC-disease free 25 months after initiation of therapy. We describe four additional AIDS patients with MAC disease who had a favorable clinical and microbiological response to this regimen without developing serious adverse effects after periods ranging from 4 to 12 months. We suggest a prospective, controlled clinical trial using this regimen for treatment of MAC disease in patients with AIDS may be warranted.
Efficacy of rifampin and its combinations with imipenem, sulbactam, and colistin in experimental models of infection caused by imipenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii.	There are currently no defined optimal therapies available for multidrug-resistant (MDR) Acinetobacter baumannii infections. We evaluated the efficacy of rifampin, imipenem, sulbactam, colistin, and their combinations against MDR A. baumannii in experimental pneumonia and meningitis models. The bactericidal in vitro activities of rifampin, imipenem, sulbactam, colistin, and their combinations were tested using time-kill curves. Murine pneumonia and rabbit meningitis models were evaluated using the A. baummnnii strain Ab1327 (with MICs for rifampin, imipenem, sulbactam, and colistin of 4, 32, 32, and 0.5 mg/liter, respectively). Mice were treated with the four antimicrobials and their combinations. For the meningitis model, the efficacies of colistin, rifampin and its combinations with imipenem, sulbactam, or colistin, and of imipenem plus sulbactam were assayed. In the pneumonia model, compared to the control group, (i) rifampin alone, (ii) rifampin along with imipenem, sulbactam, or colistin, (iii) colistin, or (iv) imipenem plus sulbactam significantly reduced lung bacterial concentrations (10.6 +/- 0.27 [controls] versus 3.05 +/- 1.91, 2.07 +/- 1.82, 2.41 +/- 1.37, 3.4 +/- 3.07, 6.82 +/- 3.4, and 4.22 +/- 2.72 log(10) CFU/g, respectively [means +/- standard deviations]), increased sterile blood cultures (0% versus 78.6%, 100%, 93.3%, 93.8%, 73.3%, and 50%), and improved survival (0% versus 71.4%, 60%, 46.7%, 43.8%, 40%, and 85.7%). In the meningitis model rifampin alone or rifampin plus colistin reduced cerebrospinal fluid bacterial counts (-2.6 and -4.4 log(10) CFU/ml). Rifampin in monotherapy or with imipenem, sulbactam, or colistin showed efficacy against MDR A. baumannii in experimental models of pneumonia and meningitis. Imipenem or sulbactam may be appropriate for combined treatment when using rifampin.
The three RelE homologs of Mycobacterium tuberculosis have individual, drug-specific effects on bacterial antibiotic tolerance.	In Escherichia coli, expression of the RelE and HipA toxins in the absence of their cognate antitoxins has been associated with generating multidrug-tolerant "persisters." Here we show that unlike persisters of E. coli, persisters of Mycobacterium tuberculosis selected with one drug do not acquire cross-resistance to other classes of drugs. M. tuberculosis has three homologs of RelE arranged in operons with their apparent antitoxins. Each toxin individually arrests growth of both M. tuberculosis and E. coli, an effect that is neutralized by coexpression of the cognate antitoxin. Overexpression or deletion of each of the RelE toxins had a toxin- and drug-specific effect on the proportion of bacilli surviving antibiotic killing. All three toxins were upregulated in vivo, but none of the deletions affected survival during murine infection. RelE2 overexpression increased bacterial survival rates in the presence of rifampin in vitro, while deletion significantly decreased survival rates. Strikingly, deletion of this toxin had no discernible effect on the level of persisters seen in rifampin-treated mice. Our results suggest that, in vivo, RelE-generated persisters are unlikely to play a significant role in the generation of bacilli that survive in the face of multidrug therapy or in the generation of multidrug-resistant M. tuberculosis.
Efficacy of antibiotic-impregnated external ventricular drain catheters.	We prospectively compared the incidence of ventriculitis associated with external ventricular drains (EVD) impregnated with clindamycin and rifampicin with historical controls. We found the use of antibiotic impregnated (AI) EVDs showed a significant decrease in positive cerebrospinal fluid cultures and a significant delay in time to EVD infection.
Safety of 3 different reintroduction regimens of antituberculosis drugs after development of antituberculosis treatment-induced hepatotoxicity.	Drug-induced hepatotoxicity (DIH) is the most common adverse drug reaction leading to interruption of antituberculosis treatment. Worldwide, different reintroduction regimens have been advocated, but no consensus guidelines are available. Reintroduction of antituberculosis drugs in patients with DIH has never been studied systematically. We aimed to compare the safety of 3 different reintroduction regimens of antituberculosis drugs in patients with antituberculosis DIH.
Rifampin in drug-incorporated diet: effect of duration and temperature of storage. Relevance to drug-susceptibility testing in mice inoculated with M. leprae.	This paper is in two parts. Plasma concentrations of rifampin were assayed at 11 time points in 24 hr in mice fed one of three dosages of rifampin, either by gavage or by dietary incorporation. The drug-mixed diets had been stored for a maximum of 3 weeks at 4 degrees C or at room temperature (30 degrees C-35 degrees C). The peak concentration of rifampin produced by gavage was approximately 11/2 times higher than the maximum plasma concentration of the corresponding dosage in fresh diet. Plasma concentrations decreased with the increasing duration of storage of the drug-mixed diet, irrespective of whether the diet was stored at 4 degrees C or at room temperature. This decrease was less when the diet was stored at 4 degrees C than at room temperature. Drug levels were also assayed in another set of mice selected from ongoing drug-susceptibility experiments; these mice were fed a rifampin-incorporated diet stored at room temperature. The plasma concentrations in these mice, assayed at the time of foot pad harvest, were generally higher than in the 24-hr experiment. The harvest results from these mice were compared with the harvest results from a third set of mice, also from ongoing drug-susceptibility experiments, but fed a rifampin-mixed diet stored at 4 degrees C. Multiplication of Mycobacterium leprae in mouse foot pads was prevented by rifampin mixed in the diet at a dosage of greater than or equal to 0.003%, whether stored at room temperature or at 4 degrees C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Laryngeal tuberculosis today. A case report]	We report the clinical, CT and histopathological findings of an 84-year-old female with laryngeal tuberculosis. Despite extensive clinical investigations no other manifestation of tuberculosis was found. Antituberculous therapy healed the disease. The clinical relevance and the differential diagnosis of laryngeal tuberculosis are discussed.
Induction of fluconazole metabolism by rifampin: in vivo study in humans.	The effects of rifampin on the pharmacokinetics of fluconazole were analyzed in an open-label, placebo-controlled, parallel study. Sixteen healthy male volunteers, randomized into two groups, received 200 mg of oral fluconazole on days 1 and 22. On days 8 through 27, group I received oral rifampin, 600 mg/d, and group II received placebo. Fluconazole in serum was analyzed by HPLC. On days 1 and 22, respectively, the AUC (micrograms.hr/mL) (mean +/- SD) was 160.5 +/- 19.5 and 124 +/- 22.2 in group I, 152 +/- 25 and 152.8 +/- 33.9 in group II; the Kel (hr-1) was .0211 +/- .0030 and .0264 +/- .0040 in group I, .0219 +/- .0036 and .0216 +/- .0053 in group II. Cmax and Tmax did not change significantly in either group. Urinary 6 beta-hydroxycortisol/cortisol increased from 3.47 +/- 1.04 to 15.2 +/- 5.07 in group I, but was unchanged (3.54 +/- 1.33-4.26 +/- 2.36) in group II on days 1 and 22, respectively. The findings in this study indicate that rifampin induces the metabolism of fluconazole.
Efficacy of prolonged antimicrobial chemotherapy for brucellar spondylodiscitis.	The standard treatment of brucellar spondylitis with a combination of two antibiotics for 6-12 weeks is associated with high rates of treatment failure and relapse. The present study aimed to assess the safety and efficacy of a treatment strategy based on the prolonged administration of a triple combination of suitable antibiotics. Eighteen patients with brucellar spondylitis were treated with a combination of at least three suitable antibiotics (doxycycline, rifampin, plus intramuscular streptomycin or cotrimoxazole or ciprofloxacin) until the completion of at least 6 months of treatment, when clinical, radiological and serology re-evaluation was performed. If necessary, the treatment was continued with additional 6-month cycles, until resolution or significant improvement of clinical and radiological findings, or for a maximum of 18 months. At presentation, the median age was 66 years (range, 42-85 years) with male predominance. The median duration of therapy was 48 weeks (range 24-72 weeks). Treatment was discontinued early because of side-effects in only one patient. Surgical intervention was required for three patients. At the end of treatment all patients had a complete response. After completion of treatment, all patients were followed up with regular visits. During the follow-up period (duration 1-96 months, median 36.5 months), no relapses were observed. In conclusion, prolonged (at least 6 months) administration of a triple combination of suitable antibiotics appears to be an effective treatment for brucellar spondylitis.
Clinical effectiveness and risk of emerging resistance associated with prolonged use of antibiotic-impregnated catheters: more than 0.5 million catheter days and 7 years of clinical experience.	Catheters coated with minocycline and rifampin are proven to decrease the rates of central line-associated bloodstream infection; however, it is unclear whether success occurs independent of other infection control precautions. We evaluated the effect of catheters coated with minocycline and rifampin with and without other infection control precautions on our rates of central line-associated bloodstream infection in critically ill patients and on antibiotic resistance throughout the hospital and in the intensive care unit.
Effectiveness and safety of the schedules of short and long term treatment for tuberculous meningoencephalitis at two hospitals of Lima--Peru.	To compare the effectiveness and safety of short term 6 month-treatment and long term 12 month-treatment schedules for meningoencephalitis due to tuberculosis in two hospitals from Lima-Peru.
A new respirable form of rifampicin.	The aim of this research was to investigate a novel dry powder formulation of rifampicin (RF) that presents an improved lung deposition profile by means of a polymorphic transformation into a flake-like crystal hydrate. Rifampicin dihydrate (RFDH) was prepared by recrystallization of RF in anhydrous ethanol. A control formulation, amorphous RF (RFAM) was prepared by spray drying. The physicochemical properties of the RFDH and the RFAM were characterized. Aerosol performances of RFDH and RFAM were studied with two dry powder inhalers (DPIs), an Aerolizer and a Handihaler, using a Next Generation Impactor (NGI). The RFDH powder was successfully prepared using simple recrystallization process and had a MMAD of 2.2 μm. The RFDH powders were characterized as having a very thin flaky structure; this unique morphology provided improved aerosolization properties with a decreased device dependency upon aerosolization. The flaky morphology of RFDH resulted in a reduced agglomeration tendency than that of spherical RFAM particles. The maximum fine particle fraction (FPF(TD)) of 68% for the RFDH was achieved with the Aerolizer device. Significant chemical degradation was not observed from the RFDH, while the RFAM showed significant chemical degradation at 9 months. The excipient-free formulation of the RFDH offers the benefit of delivering a maximum potency formulation, of the antibiotic, directly to the site of infection, the lung.
Increased rifampicin resistance in blood isolates of meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) amongst patients exposed to rifampicin-containing antituberculous treatment.	The aim of this study was to determine the rifampicin (RIF) resistance rate of meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) amongst patients with MRSA bacteraemia who have or have not been exposed to RIF-containing antituberculous (anti-TB) treatment. From 2000 to 2008, patients with MRSA bacteraemia and previous exposure to RIF-containing anti-TB therapy were selected. Patients matched for sex, age and time of culture of MRSA bacteraemia but without exposure to anti-TB therapy were selected as a control group. A total of 139 patients, comprising 49 with RIF exposure and 90 without RIF exposure, were analysed. The RIF resistance rate was higher in patients with previous RIF exposure (61.2% vs. 20.0%; P<0.001). The minimum inhibitory concentration of RIF that inhibited 50% of MRSA isolates (MIC(50)) for the study group was also higher (128 mg/L vs. 0.015 mg/L; P<0.001). The mortality rate was higher in the study group (59.2% vs. 41.1%; P=0.041). MRSA isolates recovered from patients with current usage of a RIF-containing anti-TB regimen were more likely to be resistant to RIF (87.5% vs. 36%; P=0.001), with higher MIC(50) values (256 mg/L vs. 1mg/L; P=0.002), and resulted in a higher mortality rate than isolates from patients with remote usage of an anti-TB regimen (79.2% vs. 40%; P=0.005). Multivariate analysis showed that current anti-TB drug usage was the only risk factor for RIF resistance [odds ratio (OR)=7.457, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.581-35.167] and mortality (OR=7.201, 95% CI 1.583-32.766). Given the high rate of RIF resistance in patients with prior anti-TB treatment, RIF susceptibility testing should be performed before considering combination treatment of RIF in MRSA infection.
Potential economic viability of two proposed rifapentine-based regimens for treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.	Rifapentine-based regimens for treating latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) are being considered for future clinical trials, but even if they prove effective, high drug costs may limit their economic viability.
Pharmacokinetics of standard dose regimens of rifampicin in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis in Pakistan.	This clinical study investigated the pharmacokinetics of standard doses of rifampicin (RMP; 450 and 600 mg) in pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) patients in the context of its high sterilizing potential and the increased frequency of multidrug-resistant TB in Pakistan. The objective of this study was to determine the sufficiency or inadequacy of peak plasma levels of RMP in pulmonary TB patients after the administration of standard doses.
Successful treatment of right-sided native valve methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis and septicaemia with teicoplanin and rifampicin: a case report.	Vancomycin is the drug of choice in the treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection. However, the presence of certain clinical complications like renal failure alters vancomycin pharmacokinetics, leading to drug accumulation and toxicity. This highlights the need to identify an effective substitute for treating MRSA infections when vancomycin cannot be used. We report the case of a 57-y-old Indian male diagnosed with tricuspid valve endocarditis with septicaemia and a right upper lobe cavity caused by MRSA. The patient also presented with renal failure, which precluded the use of vancomycin for treatment. A 6-week regimen of teicoplanin and rifampicin was used instead, and the infection was successfully treated. This case report provides evidence of the effectiveness of teicoplanin and rifampicin in the treatment of MRSA bacteraemia in situations where the use of vancomycin is contraindicated.
Decreased serum linezolid concentrations in two patients receiving linezolid and rifampicin due to bone infections.	Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus is a common cause of orthopaedic implant infections. In such cases, rifampicin is the antibiotic of choice, but it should not be administered alone to avoid the selection of resistant mutants. Linezolid has activity against resistant staphylococci and a high oral bioavailability; therefore, it could be a good option for combining with rifampicin. We describe 2 patients admitted to our hospital due to orthopaedic implant infections, who received combination therapy with linezolid and rifampicin. In both cases, the trough serum concentration of linezolid during rifampicin treatment was below the minimum inhibitory concentration required to inhibit the growth of 90% of organisms (MIC(90)) for staphylococci, but increased after rifampicin withdrawal. This finding suggests an interaction between rifampicin and linezolid, and a possible explanation is discussed.
Safety and pharmacokinetics of escalating daily doses of the antituberculosis drug rifapentine in healthy volunteers.	Rifapentine (RP T) is an antituberculosis drug that may shorten treatment duration when substituted for rifampin (RI F).The maximal tolerated daily dose of RP T and its potential for cytochrome 3A4 induction and autoinduction at clinically relevant doses are unknown. In this phase I, dose-escalation study among healthy volunteers, daily doses as high asa prespecified maximum of 20 mg/kg/day were well tolerated. Steady-state RP T concentrations increased with dose from 5 to 15 mg/kg, but area under the plasma concentration–time curve (AU C0–24) and maximum concentration (Cmax)were similar in the 15- and 20-mg/kg cohorts. Although RP T pharmacokinetics (PK) appeared to be time-dependent,accumulation occurred with daily dosing. The mean AU C0–12 of oral midazolam (MDZ), a cytochrome 3A (CYP 3A) probe drug, was reduced by 93% with the coadministration of RPT and by 74% with the coadministration of RIF (P < 0.01).Changes in the oral clearance of MDZ did not vary by RP T dose. In conclusion, RP T was tolerated at doses as high as20 mg/kg/day, its PK were less than dose-proportional, and its CYP 3A induction was robust.
Influence of P-glycoprotein modulation on plasma concentrations and pharmacokinetics of orally administered prednisolone in dogs.	To evaluate the impact of modulation of the membrane-bound efflux pump P-glycoprotein (P-gp) on plasma concentrations of orally administered prednisolone in dogs.
Extension of the intensive phase reduces relapse but not failure in a regimen with rifampicin throughout.	Damien Foundation tuberculosis (TB) control projects in Bangladesh.
Risk of infection after placement of an extraventricular drainage catheter]	The occurrence of infection after the placement of an extraventricular drainage (EVD) catheter can be a very serious problem in neurosurgery.
Florid reactive periostitis ossificans of long bones and digits associated with reaction in a patient with leprosy.	Florid reactive periostitis ossificans is a rare bone lesion usually occurring in the small, tubular bones of the hands and feet. This entity is a benign and aggressive periosteal reaction associated with soft tissue swelling that appears similar to a bone lesion that radiographically and clinically mimics an infectious or neoplastic process. Typically the lesions occurs in an adolescent or young adult and presents as a small area of painful swelling and erythema over the affected bone. The cause of florid reactive periostitis ossificans is not exactly known though many authors have postulated varied etiopathogenesis for the same condition. In this report, is a very rare and unusual example of this entity that has been observed in association with erythema nodosum leprosum (ENL) a type 2 lepra reaction in a Leprosy patient.
Anaplastic large cell lymphoma and lepromatous leprosy: a rare coexistence.	Lepromatous leprosy (LL) has been reported in the literature with Non Hodgkin Lymphoma and rarely with Hodgkin Lymphoma. However, an extensive search of the literature shows no case report describing anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) in association with LL. We report a case of a young male with LL who was found to have ALCL. This is an interesting case of coexistence of an endemic infectious disease and a rare lymphoma involving the same lymph node, with a brief review of the literature.
Rifampin breakpoint for Acinetobacter baumannii based on pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic models with Monte Carlo simulation.	The aim of this study is to develop a pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PK-PD) rifampin breakpoint for Acinetobacter baumannii based on Monte Carlo simulation and to compare it with the reference value establish by the French Society for Microbiology (SFM).
Kytococcus schroeteri prosthetic valve endocarditis.	We report the case of a 64-year-old male patient with a prosthetic aortic valve who presented with clinical features of endocarditis confirmed by transoesophageal echocardiography. His blood cultures were positive for a very rare and newly described organism-Kytococcus schroeteri. The patient underwent aortic valve replacement and a 6-week course of intravenous antibiotics. This is the fifth reported case of endocarditis associated with this organism.
An uncommon case of acute brucellosis presenting with severe thrombocytopenia.	A 49-year-old man was admitted to the hospital with complaints of fatigue, epistaxis and a skin rash. The whole blood count revealed isolated thrombocytopenia (4,000/mL), and the patient was admitted to the hematology department with a diagnosis of immune thrombocytopenia. He did not respond to steroid treatment for 15 days, and a subfebrile fever developed during this period. A diagnosis of acute brucellosis was considered due to positive serological tests and a blood culture positive for Brucella spp. After starting doxycycline and rifampicin therapy, the patient's thrombocyte count increased to 15,000/mL on the third day, to 41,000/mL on the sixth day and was normal on the 21st day of treatment. A diagnosis of brucellosis must be considered in patients presenting with severe and isolated thrombocytopenia in countries where brucellosis is endemic.
Corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression ultimately does not compromise the efficacy of antibiotherapy in murine Mycobacterium ulcerans infection.	Buruli ulcer (BU) is a necrotizing disease of the skin, subcutaneous tissue and bone caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans. It has been suggested that the immune response developed during the recommended rifampicin/streptomycin (RS) antibiotherapy is protective, contributing to bacterial clearance. On the other hand, paradoxical reactions have been described during or after antibiotherapy, characterized by pathological inflammatory responses. This exacerbated inflammation could be circumvented by immunosuppressive drugs. Therefore, it is important to clarify if the immune system contributes to bacterial clearance during RS antibiotherapy and if immunosuppression hampers the efficacy of the antibiotic regimen.
Contacts of infectious tuberculosis patients: monitor those at highest risk of developing tuberculosis.	It is essential to identify and treat contacts of tuberculosis patients with active disease. Persons exposed through close, prolonged or frequent contact may develop tuberculosis, usually within two years following exposure. What is the harm-benefit balance of tuberculosis prophylaxis in contacts at risk? To answer this question, we conducted a review of the literature, using the standard Prescrire methodology. Standard prophylaxis for pulmonary tuberculosis consists of isoniazid monotherapy for 6 to 12 months.This regimen has been tested in randomised placebo-controlled trials involving tens of thousands of persons with a positive tuberculin skin test (TST). Pulmonary tuberculosis occurred in 0.6% of patients in the isoniazid groups versus 1.7% in the placebo groups, after a follow-up of at least 2 years. However, isoniazid can cause severe hepatic disorders and numerous drug interactions. Rifampicin monotherapy was shown to be effective in only one placebo-controlled trial in patients with silicosis, who have a very high risk of developing tuberculosis. Rifampicin also carries a high risk of drug interactions but is less hepatotoxic than isoniazid. A 3-month course of the isoniazid+ rifampicin combination had a similar harm-benefit balance as a 6- or 9-month course of isoniazid monotherapy. The rifampicin + pyrazinamide combination is no more effective than isoniazid monotherapy but has more hepatic adverse effects. British guidelines issued in 2011 recommend treatment for contacts who have signs of latent tuberculosis infection, based mainly on a positive TST or gamma interferon release assay, and are at high risk of developing active tuberculosis. patients aged at least 2 years who are strongly suspected of having latent tuberculosis infection: either tuberculosis treatment, or chest radiography 3 and 12 months after initial diagnosis. In practice, contacts of infectious patients have a low risk of developing clinical tuberculosis.Treatment reduces the risk of tuberculosis but exposes a large number of persons to numerous, sometimes serious, adverse effects. Watchful waiting for 2 years, without treatment, is often the best option.
Single step spray drying method to develop proliposomes for inhalation: a systematic study based on quality by design approach.	Quality by Design (QbD) is a systematic approach to develop drug products which includes evaluation of formulation parameters to achieve defined final product quality. In the present study principles of QbD were extended to the preparation, in-vitro and in-vivo performance of rifapentine-loaded proliposomes for pulmonary inhalation where final product needs to comply with specific properties. The rifapentine-loaded proliposomes for the treatment of tuberculosis were prepared in single step by spray drying method and independent variables were optimized using factorial design approach. Contour plots and multiple regression analysis were used to study the effect of selected independent variables on dependent variables. The effect of presence of drug: hydrogenated soya phosphatidylcholine (HSPC) and type of charged lipid in the formulation at three levels were studied on mass median diameter (MMD), liposomal vesicle size, % encapsulation efficiency (% EE), mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) and fine particle fraction (FPF) as critical quality attributes. Optimized formulation (R-LDPI-7) with drug: HSPC ratio of 1:2 and stearyl amine as charged lipid were found to give respirable proliposomes with MMAD of 1.56 ± 0.16 μm and FPF of 92.5 ± 1.5%. Sustained drug release with Higuchi diffusion kinetics was achieved from liposomally encapsulated rifapentine. Pulmonary pharmacokinetics of optimized batch R-LDPI-7 revealed longer retention of drug in lungs with 7 fold increase in both, the mean residence time and t1/2 as compared to R-DPI-0. The study results demonstrated the application of QbD principles and design of experiment (DOE) approach to develop drug encapsulated proliposomes for inhalation by spray drying in single step. 
Isoniazid-gelatin conjugate microparticles containing rifampicin for the treatment of tuberculosis.	In this work, a new polymeric microparticle system based on gelatin covalently bound to isoniazid (ISN) and containing rifampicin (RFP) was prepared by spray-drying technique. Microparticle aptitude to nebulisation and their capability of interacting with A549, alveolar basal epithelial cells, were evaluated in vitro.
In vitro release kinetics of antituberculosis drugs from nanoparticles assessed using a modified dissolution apparatus.	The aim of this study was to assess the in vitro release kinetics of antituberculosis drug-loaded nanoparticles (NPs) using a "modified" cylindrical apparatus fitted with a regenerated cellulose membrane attached to a standard dissolution apparatus (modifiedcylinder method). The model drugs that were used were rifampicin (RIF) and moxifloxacin hydrochloride (MX). Gelatin and polybutyl cyanoacrylate (PBCA) NPs were evaluated as the nanocarriers, respectively. The dissolution and release kinetics of the drugs from loaded NPs were studied in different media using the modified cylinder method and dialysis bag technique was used as the control technique. The results showed that use of the modified cylinder method resulted in different release profiles associated with unique release mechanisms for the nanocarrier systems investigated. The modified cylinder method also permitted discrimination between forced and normal in vitro release of the model drugs from gelatin NPs in the presence or absence of enzymatic degradation. The use of dialysis bag technique resulted in an inability to differentiate between the mechanisms of drug release from the NPs in these cases. This approach offers an effective tool to investigate in vitro release of RIF and MX from NPs, which further indicate that this technique can be used for performance testing of nanosized carrier systems. 
Rifampicin-induced acute kidney injury during the initial treatment for pulmonary tuberculosis: a case report and literature review.	A 47-year-old man diagnosed with pulmonary tuberculosis was referred to our hospital. Rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and ethambutol were administered, and the patient's symptoms promptly improved. On the 19th hospital day, he developed acute kidney injury with a fever and chills. Renal biopsy specimens indicated tubulointerstitial nephritis. Suspecting rifampicin-induced acute kidney injury, we discontinued the rifampicin and administered levofloxacin in its place. The patient's serum creatinine level subsequently gradually improved. We herein report this case and review eight cases reported in Japan. We found that the rifampicin toxicity appeared at both the initial administration and readministration. All eight patients presented with proteinuria. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction of rifapentine and raltegravir in healthy volunteers.	Latent tuberculosis infection and tuberculosis disease are prevalent worldwide. However, antimycobacterial rifamycins have drug interactions with many antiretroviral drugs. We evaluated the effect of rifapentine on the pharmacokinetic properties of raltegravir.
Evaluation of the effect of rifampicin on the biophysical properties of the membranes: significance for therapeutic and side effects.	This work aims to study the biophysical interactions of rifampicin (RIF) with three-dimensional macrophage membrane models, under environments with physiological and pathological relevance. The interaction of RIF with liposomes formed by 1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DPPC) in different pH values (i.e., 5.0, 6.2 and 7.4) was investigated by several biophysical techniques. The RIF's membrane concentration was quantified by partition coefficient (Kp) using derivative spectrophotometry. To predict the drug's location across the membrane, fluorescence quenching studies were performed using liposomes labeled with two different fluorescence probes. The effect of the drug on the biophysical parameters of the membrane was carried out by dynamic light scattering (DLS), and small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS). The overall results confirm that the interactions of RIF with membranes are pH-dependent, being much more pronounced at the acidic pH. A correlation between the effect of RIF on the biophysical properties of the membranes and the pH was found, which may be useful in the development of novel analogs with higher efficacy and fewer side effects, and also to understand the higher selectivity of RIF to the membranes of the infected cells, as well as its side effects. 
Esophageal anthracosis with tuberculous lymphadenitis confirmed on transesophageal endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration.	Esophageal anthracosis with tuberculous lymphadenitis is a very rare disease. Almost all reported cases are diagnosed using multiple endoscopic biopsies or thoracic esophagectomy. The present case report describes a case of esophageal anthracosis with tuberculous lymphadenitis that was diagnosed using transesophageal endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) alone. After taking antituberculosis drugs, the patient's chest pain was relieved and she recovered. The patient achieved an excellent outcome following the use of less invasive methods than mediastinoscopy. If no esophageal anthracotic lesions are found on the mucous membrane layer of the esophagus, transesophageal endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration is a suitable approach for diagnosing esophageal anthracosis. 
Septic arthritis of undetermined origin in children: a proposal for the assessment and its therapy]	Septic arthritis is not a frequent, but quite classical pathology in children. It can be followed by a severe outcome in case of delayed and/or inadequate treatment. The drainage of the infected joint associated with a prompt and adapted antibiotherapy are together the cornerstones of this treatment. The isolation and identification of the causative microorganism is also of the highest importance. Up to now, unfortunately, a large proportion of septic arthritis are treated by antibiotics although all culture remain negative. This paper has two objectives: one is to present the different steps to optimize the assessment and diagnosis; the second, to increase the sensitivity of the pathogen identification. At last, we present our proposal for empirical antibiotherapy.
Treatment and prevention of Mycobacterium ulcerans infection (Buruli ulcer) in Australia: guideline update.	• Guidelines reflecting contemporary clinical practice in the management of Buruli ulcer (Mycobacterium ulcerans infection) in Australia were published in 2007. • Management has continued to evolve, as new evidence has become available from randomised trials, case series and increasing clinical experience with oral antibiotic therapy. • Therefore, guidelines on the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of Buruli ulcer in Australia have been updated. They include guidance on the new role of antibiotics as first-line therapy; the shortened duration of antibiotic treatment and the use of all-oral antibiotic regimens; the continued importance, timing and role of surgery; the recognition and management of paradoxical reactions during antibiotic treatment; and updates on the prevention of disease.
Treatment guidelines for latent tuberculosis infection.	The treatment of latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) has been established as valid for patients at high risk for developing active tuberculosis. Treatment of LTBI is also considered an important strategy for eliminating tuberculosis (TB) in Japan. In recent years, interferon-gamma release assays have come into widespread use; isoniazid (INH) preventive therapy for HIV patients has come to be recommended worldwide; and there have been increases in both types of biologics used in the treatment of immune diseases as well as the diseases susceptible to treatment. In light of the above facts, the Prevention Committee and the Treatment Committee of the Japanese Society for Tuberculosis have jointly drafted these guidelines. In determining subjects for LTBI treatment, the following must be considered: 1) risk of TB infection/ development; 2) infection diagnosis; 3) chest image diagnosis; 4) the impact of TB development; 5) the possible manifestation of side effects; and 6) the prospects of treatment completion. LTBI treatment is actively considered when relative risk is deemed 4 or higher, including risk factors such as the following: HIV/AIDS, organ transplants (immunosuppressant use), silicosis, dialysis due to chronic renal failure, recent TB infection (within 2 years), fibronodular shadows in chest radiographs (untreated old TB), the use of biologics, and large doses of corticosteroids. Although the risk is lower, the following risk factors require consideration of LTBI treatment when 2 or more of them are present: use of oral or inhaled corticosteroids, use of other immunosuppressants, diabetes, being underweight, smoking, gastrectomy, and so on. In principle, INH is administered for a period of 6 or 9 months. When INH cannot be used, rifampicin is administered for a period of 4 or 6 months. It is believed that there are no reasons to support long-term LTBI treatment for immunosuppressed patients in Japan, where the risk of infection is not considered markedly high. For pregnant women, HIV-positive individuals, heavy drinkers, and individuals with a history of liver injury, regular liver function tests are necessary when treatment is initiated and when symptoms are present. There have been reports of TB developing during LTBI treatment; therefore, attention should be paid to TB development symptoms. When administering LTBI treatment, patients must be educated about side effects, the risk of developing TB onset, and the risks associated with discontinuing medication. Treatment outcomes and support for continuation of treatment are evaluated in cooperation with health centers. As stipulated by the Infectious Diseases Control Law, doctors are required to notify a health center when an individual develops TB. Based on this notification, the health center registers the patient, sends a public health nurse to visit the patient and give instructions, and provides medication adherence support. The patient applies at a health center for public expenses for medical care at a designated TB care facility. Pending approval in a review by an infectious disease examination council, the patient's copayment is reduced.
Combined regimens of one year duration in the treatment of multibacillary leprosy--I. Combined regimens with rifampicin administered during one year.	In 1981, 1982 and 1983, 216 multibacillary patients in Anjouan (Comores) and Burundi were treated for 8 weeks with daily rifampicin (600 mg) ethionamide (500 mg) and dapsone (100 mg) or clofazimine (100 mg) followed for 44 weeks by once weekly rifampicin (600 mg) and daily ethionamide (500 mg) and dapsone (100 mg) or clofazimine (100 mg). There were 109 previously untreated patients and 107 patients who had dapsone monotherapy, 16 of whom were infected with proven dapsone resistant Mycobacterium leprae. Clinical and bacteriological results were excellent but hepatotoxicity of this regimen remains a problem. No relapses were observed during a 2 to 6 years (mean: 4.29 years) follow-up period after the end of treatment (upper 95% confidence limit of 0.40 per 100 persons years). It is concluded that multibacillary leprosy can be successfully treated with a regimen of one year duration, but less toxic regimens, more easily applicable in the field, are necessary.
Combined regimens of one year duration in the treatment of multibacillary leprosy--II. Combined regimens with rifampicin administered during 6 months.	From 1981 to 1983 all multibacillary patients presenting at the collaborating centres in Zaire and Rwanda were treated with one of the following regimens: 6 months supervised daily RMP 600 mg, ETH 500 mg and DDS 100 mg or CLO 100 mg followed by 6 months unsupervised daily DDS 100 mg or CLO 100 mg with ETH 500 mg added or not. These regimens gave rise to hepatotoxicity, reversal and erythema nodosum leprosum reactions as described previously. Bactericidal activity was excellent. Among the 289 patients in the trial, with a mean follow-up period of 3.88 years, no relapses were observed, with an upper 95% confidence limit of 0.35 per 100 person years. Because of the hepatotoxicity, alternative short-course therapies need to be tested.
Study of multidrug therapy in paucibacillary leprosy.	A study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy of multidrug therapy (MDT) in paucibacillary leprosy. Out of 155 fresh cases studied 48 had indeterminate, 38 tuberculoid and 69 had borderline tuberculoid leprosy. Out of 155 cases, 64 patients in the first group were treated with dapsone 100 mg daily for 12 months. In the second group, 91 patients were given MDT, consisting of rifampicin 600 mg once a month and dapsone 100 mg daily for consecutive 12 months. The cases receiving dapsone and the cases having MDT remained clinically active at the end of 6 months in 56.1% and 37.2% respectively; 13.1% of cases having single lesion and 66.3% of patients with multiple lesions were found to be active after 6 months of MDT. At the end of one year 79.6% cases receiving dapsone and 91.2% cases having MDT became inactive.
Bactericidal activity and killing rate of serum in volunteers receiving teicoplanin alone or in combination with oral or intravenous rifampin.	A total of 10 volunteers, in two groups of 5 each, received the following on separate days: group 1,200 mg of teicoplanin intravenously (i.v.), 600 mg of rifampin orally, or teicoplanin-rifampin; group 2,400 mg of teicoplanin i.v., 300 mg of rifampin i.v. in 60 min, or teicoplanin-rifampin. Blood samples were obtained before, at the end, and at 1 and 6 h after the administration of the antibiotics. Bactericidal activity in serum (SBA) was measured in microtiter plates against 20 clinical isolates (five strains each) of oxacillin-susceptible and-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis. The endpoint of the SBA corresponded to 99.9% killing. Killing rates were measured in serum obtained at 1 and 6 h. The concentrations of each antibiotic were measured by bioassay. The antibiotic concentrations in serum obtained at the peak and at 1 and 6 h after the end of administration were as follows: group 1, teicoplanin, 26, 15.6, and 8.4 mg/liter; rifampin, not determined, 8.3, and 3.8 mg/liter; group 2, teicoplanin, 66, 29.4, and 11.5 mg/liter; rifampin, 14.8, 3.8, and 1.2 mg/liter. Higher median SBAs were obtained after treatment with rifampin than after that with teicoplanin. No interaction was observed between rifampin and teicoplanin. This was confirmed by determination of the killing rate in serum. Teicoplanin killed more slowly than rifampin. The combination had the same killing rate as rifampin alone. Rifampin neither improved nor antagonized the bactericidal activity of teicoplanin, as determined by the SBAs or the rate of killing.
Teicoplanin and rifampicin singly and in combination in the treatment of experimental Staphylococcus epidermidis endocarditis in the rabbit model.	Teicoplanin and rifampicin were evaluated as single and combined agents in the treatment of endocarditis due to Staphylococcus epidermidis in the rabbit model. Rabbits were treated for ten days and the number of bacteria in vegetations determined. At the end of ten days the geometric mean number of bacteria in the vegetations were 5.53 X 10(8), 6.68 X 10(6). 1.10 X 10(4), 2.57 X 10(1) cfu/g of vegetation for control, teicoplanin, rifampicin, and teicoplanin plus rifampicin groups respectively. The MIC and MBC values of the S. epidermidis isolates were 0.78 mg/l for teicoplanin and less than or equal to 0.10 mg/l for rifampicin. In the rifampicin treated group three post-treatment isolates of S. epidermidis tested exhibited marked resistance to rifampicin with MIC and MBC values greater than or equal to 200 mg/l. Teicoplanin and rifampicin were both effective as single agents in the clearance of S. epidermidis from the bloodstream. Rifampicin was more effective than teicoplanin in the clearance of S. epidermidis from vegetations but teicoplanin in combination with rifampicin was more effective than either drug alone.
Trial of two intermittent short-course regimens (78 doses) in the initial treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis.	A controlled trial was done in Roumania to compare 2 regimens in patients with culture-positive pulmonary tuberculosis. Both regimens were of twice-weekly doses under supervision for 9 months, a total of 78 doses. Patients were followed up for 15 months after the end of treatment. The regimens were as follows: IR, isoniazid and rifampicin for 3 months followed by isoniazid and either streptomycin or ethambutol for 6 months; ISE, isoniazid, streptomycin and ethambutol for 3 months followed by isoniazid and either streptomycin or ethambutol for 6 months. Of 128 IR cases and 104 ISE cases with sensitive cultures initially all were culture-negative at 6 months. At the end of 9 months there were 1.8% of 112 in the IR group which had had 2 positive cultures in the 6-9 month period and 3.4% of 88 in the ISE group. After 15 months from the end of treatment 5.6% of 89 in the IR group had had a bacteriological relapse and 8.9% of 79 in the ISE group. Cultures from all relapsed cases were still sensitive to the drugs used. All relapses occurred during the first 12 months. In only 5.6% of 232 patients did adverse reactions necessitate change of treatment. The efficacy, cost, tolerance and suitability of the regimens for a national programme are discussed.
Corneal penetration of rifampin.	We tested the corneal penetration of rifampin in four vehicles: dimethylsulfoxide, polyethylene glycol, an ocular lubricant, and as rifampin ointment. We measured drug concentrations in the aqueous humor in rabbits after topical instillation of 1 and 2.5% rifampin according to two dosage schedules. Drug concentrations in the aqueous humor were bactericidal to Mycobacterium leprae. Since leprosy of the cornea, iris, and ciliary body may develop despite standard systemic bacteriostatic treatment, treatment of leprotic involvement of the anterior eye may be enhanced by intensive topical application of rifampin.
Effects of rifampicin on the pharmacokinetics of doxycycline]	Because of the potential of doxycycline-rifampicin for oral therapy of infectious diseases with intracellular bacteria, specially brucellosis and the well known cytochrome P450 enzyme system inductive activity of rifampicin, we may speculate that this antibiotic can altered the serum concentration-time profile of doxycycline when given in combination. So, the main pharmacokinetic parameters of doxycycline (200 mg/day orally) in seven patients before and after rifampicin association (10 mg/kg/day). According to the results two groups may be individualized: the first (n = 3) showed no variation in the doxycycline++ pharmacokinetic; the second (n = 4) had significant differences (p less than 0.05) for all pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC, T1/2, Cl, Cmax) after association with rifampicin (AUC were half reduced). Moreover, as regard doxycycline half-life, a difference was observed between these two groups before rifampicin treatment: in one case T1/2 was of 17.9 + 6.6 hours, while in the other it was of 9.2 + 2.3 hours. The group with obvious enzyme induction had the longer half life. This suggests that the inductive rifampicin effect would be essentially observed in patients considered as "poor metabolizers". The pharmacokinetic modifications observed are likely of clinical significance on account of the doxycycline serum concentrations decrease under the MIC of most agents of intracellular infections.
Short-course chemotherapy of pulmonary tuberculosis in pneumoconiotic patients.	This is the first prospective clinical trial recorded to date of short-course chemotherapy in pulmonary tuberculosis complicated by pneumoconiosis. Forty-eight anthrasillicotic and 11 silicotic patients with previously untreated pulmonary tuberculosis completed 9-month, short-course chemotherapy regimens: 2 months of daily streptomycin, isoniazid, rifampicin, and pyrazinamide followed by daily isoniazid and rifampicin for 7 months (2SHRZ/7HR). There were 3 treatment failures (5%). The remaining 56 patients (95%) all had their sputum converted within 4 months (mean, 1.5 months). Bacteriologic relapses were noted in 3 patients (5%) after 18 to 40 months of follow-up (mean, 28.4 months). The relapses occurred within 7 months after chemotherapy was stopped. There were 2 deaths from nontuberculosis causes during the follow-up period. Fifty-one patients (90%) remained bacteriologically sterile for 28.4 +/- 6.1 months. These results suggest that the 2SHRZ/7HR regimen is satisfactory in treating anthrasilicotic or silicotic patients with pulmonary tuberculosis, though antituberculosis chemotherapy seemed less effective in patients with pneumoconiosis than in those without pneumoconiosis.
Local rifampicin in treatment of rhinoscleroma.	Many antibiotics, chemotherapeutic agents and other chemicals have been tried in the treatment of scleroma without much success (Toppozada et al., 1967). The most popular of these drugs are streptomycin and aureomycin (Botros et al., 1954; Zwiefach, 1955; El-Mofty, 1962), terramycin and chloromycetin (Hoover and King, 1953) and ampicillin, septrin and vibramycin (Ssali, 1975). El-Mofty and Attia (1957) attributed considerable value to the use of 20 per cent aureomycin ointment locally in treating the disease. Nigonol in the form of a local injection was tried by Toppozada et al. (1967) and they claimed good results. Shaer et al. (1981) reported that local application of 2 per cent acriflavine solution over an eight-week period was an effective and safe remedy for rhinoscleroma. Rifampicin has been used systemically with success as a new antibiotic for the treatment of scleroma (Riad, 1982). The aim of the present study was to evaluate the response of rhinoscleroma to local medication with rifampicin.
Pharmacokinetic study of the interaction between rifampicin and ketoconazole.	This study assessed the potential pharmacokinetic interaction between rifampicin and ketoconazole, two drugs used to treat the increasingly common combination of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Candida albicans infection in AIDS patients. The peak plasma rifampicin concentrations in six healthy male subjects were not altered when taken in conjunction with ketoconazole. However, the peak plasma ketoconazole levels were significantly diminished when taken in conjunction with rifampicin, compared to when taken alone (P less than 0.015). The mean area under the curve (AUC) for ketoconazole was significantly diminished when taken with oral or intravenous rifampicin (P less than 0.001).
Evaluation of single-drug and combination antifungal therapy in an experimental model of candidiasis in rabbits with prolonged neutropenia.	We developed an experimental model of candidiasis in rabbits with prolonged neutropenia. Rabbits were made neutropenic with cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) administered through an indwelling silastic catheter that had been surgically implanted in the external jugular vein. Neutropenia was sustained with intravenous Ara-C, and bacterial complications were prevented with parenteral ceftazidime plus ampicillin. Candidiasis was established by intravenously administering Candida albicans or Candida tropicalis (1-2 x 10(5) colony-forming units) and resulted in hepatic and splenic lesions that mimicked those associated with hepatosplenic candidiasis in humans. The kidney proved to be the site most refractory to eradication of Candida spp. and offered a target organ for assessing antifungal therapy. We evaluated amphotericin B, 5-flucytosine, ketoconazole, and rifampin, alone and in combination. Although each agent reduced the colony counts of Candida in the liver, spleen, and lung, the combination of amphotericin B and 5-flucytosine was the only regimen effective in eradicating renal candidiasis.
The effects of peptidoglycan, a pyrogenic constituent of gram-positive microorganisms, on the pharmacokinetics of rifampicin.	Pharmacokinetics of rifampicin (20 mg/kg orally or i.v.) was determined in calves and rabbits. Seven days later a model pyrogen was administered i.v. to the same animals and 1 hr later the rifampicin administration was repeated. The pharmacokinetic analysis of oral rifampicin was performed using a one-compartment open model with absorption. Intravenously administered rifampicin was analysed by a two-compartment intravascular model. Injection of peptidoglycan in pyrogenic doses led to a significant increase of orally applied rifampicin serum levels in both animal species. The i.v. administration of rifampicin had the same parameters in the control and peptidoglycan experiments. Daily pretreatment of rabbits with small doses of peptidoglycan induced tolerance to the pyrogenic effect. In tolerant animals we did not observe any changes of rifampicin serum levels. Elevated temperature alone was not responsible for observed pharmacokinetic changes leading to the increase of bioavailability of oral rifampicin since another pyrogenic substance (endotoxin) had an opposite effect on pharmacokinetics of previously tested drugs.
Clinical pharmacokinetics of rifampicin.	After oral administration on an empty stomach, the absorption of rifampicin (rifampin) is rapid and practically complete. With a single 600mg dose, peak serum concentration of the order of 10microgram/ml generally occur 2 hours after administration. The half-life of rifampicin for this dose level is of the order of 2.5 hours. The amount of rifampicin extracted by the liver during its first passage through the hepatoportal system and transferred to bile is relevance for the time course of distribution of the antibiotic in the blood compartment. With dose of the order of 300 to 450mg, the excretory capacity of the liver for the antibiotic is saturated. As a consequence, increasing the dose of antibiotic results in a more than proportional increase in serum concentrations. On repeated administration, and most likely as a consequence of self-induced (autoinduction) metabolism, the rate of disappearance of rifampicin from the blood compartment increases in the early phase of treatment, the phenomenon affecting mainly the levels following the peak, with a consequent reduction in half-life. Approximately 80% of rifampicin is transported in blood bound to plasma proteins, mainly albumin. Rifampicin is well distributed, although to a different degree, in the various tissues of the human body. Probably in the hepatocyte, rifampicin undergoes a process of desacetylation. The metabolic derivative, desacetylrifampicin, is more polar than the parent compound, and microbiologically active. This metabolite accounts for the majority of the antibacterial activity in the bile Rifampicin is almost equally excreted in the bile and urine, the recovery in the 2 fluids being of the same order of magnitude. Administration of rifampicin to newborn infants and children is followed by blood levels generally lower than those found in adults for the same dose levels. In patients with impaired liver and kidney function the elimination of the antibiotic from the blood compartment is slower than in normal subjects. Rifampicin has been found to compete with bilirubin and other cholefil substances for biliary excretion, giving rise to transient and reversible increased bilirubin and BSP retention values. A kinetic model study on the transfer constants between various body compartments has indicated that rifampicin is rapidly absorbed from the intestine and that the absorption rate increases with time. Rifampicin as such is transferred into urine at a rate 3 times higher than the rate of transfer into bile. Desacetylrifampicin, the more polar metabolic derivative of rifampicin, behaves in the opposite way since its rate of transfer into bile is 4 times higher than that into urine. The rate of biotransformation of rifampicin into desacetylrifampicin is of the same order of magnitude as than of biotransformation of the latter into a further metabolic derivative, which could be a glucuronide conjugate...
A four-drug regimen for initial treatment of cavitary disease caused by Mycobacterium avium complex.	Forty-six patients with positive sputum cultures for Mycobacterium avium complex and cavitary disease were placed on a 4-drug regimen consisting of isoniazid, rifampin, and ethambutol daily and streptomycin twice weekly. Forty-two (91.3%) converted their sputum to negative and 4 (8.7%) failed to convert. All of the 4 nonconverters had prior subtotal gastrectomy. Twenty-two patients were available for long-term follow-up: 12 patients completed 24 months of chemotherapy, all experienced sputum conversion, but 2 reactivated, 1 at 9 and the other at 27 months after termination of chemotherapy. These 2 patients had prior subtotal gastrectomy. Ten patients completed 18 months of chemotherapy with sputum conversion, 2 of these reactivated but had not had prior subtotal gastrectomy. In this group of patients, subtotal gastrectomy appeared to be an adverse risk factor for both initial treatment response and reactivation in pulmonary disease caused by Mycobacterium avium complex.
Treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus experimental osteomyelitis with ciprofloxacin or vancomycin alone or in combination with rifampin.	Therapy with vancomycin alone or ciprofloxacin alone did not significantly reduce the number of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in bone in rats with experimental osteomyelitis, compared with the number in control rats. Treatment with rifampin significantly (p less than 0.01) decreased the number of MRSA per gram of bone compared with the number in control animals. There was no significant difference in the results of therapy with rifampin compared with the results obtained with the combination of vancomycin plus rifampin. The combination of ciprofloxacin plus rifampin was the most effective regimen for the treatment of MRSA experimental osteomyelitis and the results of therapy were significantly (p less than 0.01) superior to those following treatment with rifampin alone or the combination of vancomycin and rifampin. Following cessation of antimicrobial therapy, significant (p less than 0.01) regrowth of MRSA in bone occurred in animals treated with rifampin alone or ciprofloxacin plus rifampin. The emergence of resistance of MRSA during treatment occurred in two rats treated with rifampin alone and in one treated with rifampin plus vancomycin.
Pharmacokinetics of rifampicin administered intravenously to pulmonary tuberculosis patients]	Pharmacokinetics of rifampicin studied in 15 patients after its intravenous administration in a dose of 10 mg/kg was described by a two-compartment model. The drug levels in serum and urine were determined with a chemical method. At the moment of the infusion discontinuation the maximum drug levels in serum averaged to 14.05 micrograms/ml. The mean values of the total clearance, distribution of the kinetic volume and half-lives were 93.2 ml/(h X kg), 1016.1 ml/kg and 8.1 h respectively. Cumulative excretion of the total rifampicin within 24 hours amounted to 19.4 per cent of the administered dose, the proportions of the main metabolite (25-O-desacetyl rifampicin) and intact rifampicin being equal to 29 and 71 per cent respectively. The renal and nonrenal clearance of rifampicin amounted to 14.2 and 79 ml/(h X kg) respectively.
Feasibility of multidrug therapy (MDT) in Hansen's disease in an urban population--Curupaiti State Hospital, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.	The acceptance of the WHO regimen in a group of 220 patients was approximately 84.5%. Only 11% abandoned the treatment, and the substitution of ethionamide or prothionamide for clofazimine due to excessive hyperpigmentation was necessary in only eight cases. The WHO regimens adopted provided a more frequent (monthly) relationship between the patients and their health service. It was necessary to: a) reorganize the technical-administrative infrastructure, with the intention of providing an improved service to the patients for treatment and control; and b) pay more attention to the problem of deformities and health education activities. As for the side effects of the drugs, 54 patients showed alterations in their liver function tests, which were usually mild and which resolved despite continuation of the treatment. Of the reactional episodes observed during MDT, it would not appear that the therapeutic regimens contributed to their occurrence or aggravation.
Treatment of tuberculous meningitis: role of short-course chemotherapy.	Twenty-eight adult patients admitted consecutively with tuberculous meningitis were treated with pyrazinamide, isoniazid, rifampicin and streptomycin daily during the first two months, followed by isoniazid and rifampicin daily for seven months with intensive management of the complications during the active stage of the meningitis. Twenty-two patients completed the course of treatment and recovered with minimal morbidity in three patients. Two patients died in a vegetative state from other causes seven and nine months after the start of treatment. No evidence of recurrence of meningitis was observed in the 21 patients who were regularly observed for 12 to 29 months after completing treatment. Four patients dropped out during the early stage of treatment. Intensive chemotherapy of tuberculous meningitis with this regimen before the development of serious neurological damage can shorten the duration of treatment to nine months with a favourable outcome.
Bacterial pyrogens of different origin and pharmacokinetics of rifampicin.	Changes of pharmacokinetics of rifampicin (RFP, Rifadin were investigated on endotoxin pretreated still not ruminant calves. The animals served as their own controls and drug administration twice in a 1-week interval gave the same results. Endotoxin 0.02 micrograms kg-1 given intravenously 1 h prior to the oral administration of RFP (20 mg kg-1) induced considerable pharmacokinetic changes. The serum levels of the total drug were significantly lower after the endotoxin administration. The pharmacokinetic analysis revealed significant changes mainly in the distribution phase. When both toxin and drug were administered intravenously, the drug levels were higher. The results are discussed with reference to the pathophysiological endotoxin changes. After the toxin administration the bioavailability of oral RFP was 4-fold lower.
Short-course antituberculous chemotherapy for pulmonary and pleural disease: 5 years' experience in clinical practice.	One hundred and twenty-four patients have been treated with 6-month regimens for pulmonary and pleural tuberculosis over 5 years; 118 patients have completed treatment as planned. No patient has relapsed of the 109 followed up for 15 months from the end of chemotherapy, or in the remaining nine patients still under observation. Significant drug side effects requiring alteration of treatment occurred in only three patients. Six-month regimens in routine practice are well tolerated and are highly effective.
Tuberculous pleural effusion and lymphadenitis treated with rifampin-containing regimen.	Rifampin, isoniazid, and ethambutol were administered in single daily dose for nine months to 91 patients with pleural effusion and 45 patients with lymphadenitis, both of tuberculous etiology. Clinical and roentgenographic clearance of pleural effusion was successfully achieved in all cases at the end of nine months of treatment. Followup of 80 cases of pleural effusion up to nine months, in 55 cases up to one year, and up to two years in 30 cases after completion of therapy, showed no recurrence. In the cases of tuberculous lymphadenitis, resolution of lymph nodes occurred in 31 cases (68.8 percent) at the end of nine months of treatment. Therapy had to be extended for varying periods for achieving successful response, and in five cases, medical treatment had to be supplemented with surgical drainage and excision of the nodes. Short course chemotherapy can be used to treat pleural effusion, but the same mode of treatment is less effective for cases of tuberculous lymphadenitis.
Mycobacterium marinum infection of the hand and wrist. Results of conservative treatment in twenty-four cases.	Inadequate débridement, extensive scarring, and breakdown of the wound have been commonly encountered after surgical débridement has been employed as the initial treatment of infection with Mycobacterium marinum involving the deep structures of the hand. Because of our disappointment with the results of this form of treatment, from 1982 to 1986 we treated twenty-four patients who had such an infection with rifampicin and ethambutol after a diagnostic biopsy was done. Surgical treatment was deferred until it was determined that the infection had not been controlled by the chemotherapy. The clinical outcome for these patients could be divided into three patterns: eleven patients (Group I) had a good result with no complications, three patients (Group II) had delayed healing of the wound, and ten patients (Group III) did not have a good response to conservative treatment and required one or more surgical débridements. Complications were sometimes associated with use of the drugs, and loss of visual acuity was a concern in three patients. In twenty-one (87 per cent) of the patients, at follow-up the function of the treated hand was equal to that of the other hand. Persistent pain, a discharging sinus, and previous local injection of steroids were unfavorable prognostic factors. If these factors are present, surgical débridement is advised.
Pharmacokinetic bases for the drug-free prevention of drug-induced hepatitis in pulmonary tuberculosis patients]	The causes and frequency of occurrence of toxic hepatitides determined by isoniazid and rifampicin, were analysed in 551 patients with primary tuberculosis detected by clinical pharmacological methods. The intravenous mode of drug administration was shown to be indicated for prevention of isoniazid hepatitides in patients with a fast type of acetylation. Doses and methods of therapy with isoniazid and streptomycin leading to their high concentrations in the patients' body should be avoided to prevent liver affection with rifampicin. Since rifampicin hepatitides develop in persons with a slow type of acetylation, rifampicin and isoniazid with streptomycin should be injected with a 6-hour interval to prevent them.
Complications and their elimination during the rapid intravenous administration of rifampicin in an experiment]	Reaction to rapid intravenous administration (RIA) of rifampicin in a dose of 10 mg/kg was studied on 173 healthy dogs. Immediately after the first RIA of rifampicin there were observed vomiting and ataxia of various levels in 5.2 per cent of the animals. After the drug administration their arterial pressure (AP) lowered to 50-60 mm Hg. By the 9th-11th minute it restored to the initial level. A collapse-like condition was recorded immediately after rifampicin RIA in 2.3 per cent of the dogs with marked decreasing of their AP up to 15-20 mm Hg. Its restoration to the initial level was slow and required 35-40 min. It was noted that after the third consecutive RIA of rifampicin the observed reaction disappeared. Probably this was due to adaptation of the host to rifampicin intravenous injections. Mezaton is an efficient agent rapidly arresting the reaction within 1-3 min.
Severe thrombocytopenia associated with once-daily rifampin therapy.	Rifampin-induced thrombocytopenia has been recognized as an immunological reaction associated with intermittent high-dose therapy, and rarely seen with daily low-dose regimens. Our patient was a 33-year-old male with Marfan's syndrome who was given rifampin 600 mg/d po along with intravenous vancomycin for the treatment of Staphylococcus epidermidis endocarditis. His platelet count dropped from a baseline of 519,000/mm3 to 4000/mm3 after four doses of rifampin. Petechiae were present on the lower extremities without the presence of other bleeding sites. Rifampin, low-dose aspirin, and dipyridamole were discontinued. His platelet count returned to normal nine days after discontinuation of therapy. With the increasing use of rifampin for the treatment of nontuberculosis infections, clinicians should recognize the possibility of this drug causing such serious immunological reactions as thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, acute renal failure, and shock with daily or intermittent therapy.
Steady-state serum pharmacokinetics of novobiocin and rifampin alone and in combination.	Because of the potential of novobiocin-rifampin for oral therapy of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection, we evaluated the pharmacokinetics of novobiocin and rifampin, alone and in combination, in a randomized, crossover, multiple-dose evaluation (500 mg of novobiocin and 300 mg of rifampin administered orally, twice a day, for 27 doses) in 10 volunteers. The half-lives of novobiocin and rifampin when administered alone were 5.85 +/- 1.20 and 1.46 +/- 0.30 h, respectively; when administered in combination, the half-lives were 2.66 +/- 0.65 and 1.43 +/- 0.29 h, respectively. This difference was significant for novobiocin. The area under the curve also differed significantly for novobiocin when administered in combination. No significant differences were seen in the maximum concentration of drug in serum, the time to maximum concentration of drug in serum, or both for either drug when single and combination therapy groups were compared. A change in clearance of novobiocin rather than a change in absorption is the more likely explanation for these findings. The mechanism remains to be elucidated. Nevertheless, the trough serum concentrations of both novobiocin and rifampin were in excess of the MIC for 90% of strains tested of methicillin-resistant S. aureus, even when coadministered.
Long-term results of a trial of short-term chemotherapy. French study 6.9.12]	The relapse rate after short course chemotherapy is usually assessed by cases that are available for analysis, with a delay which rarely exceeds 3 years from the time of instituting therapy. This level may be disputed if too many are lost to follow up or non-compliers appearing late. To understand the true failure rate we strove to trace every patient in a trial carried out between 1969 and 1973, consisting of three groups of patients treated with the same chemotherapy: Isoniazid (450 mg/day), Rifampicin (600 mg/day) given every day but for differing durations: 6 months (Group A), 9 months (Group B), 12 months (Group C), with either daily Ethambutol or Streptomycin in addition for the first three months. Amongst the 356 patients in the trial 86 were eliminated for failure to comply with the protocol, either due to a mishap or change of treatment. Amongst the 270 remaining patients, 248 were traced with a mean delay of post-therapy follow up of 101 months for patients still living and of 72 months for patients who had died in the intervening period, but of non-tuberculous disease. In the 242 old patients whose disease could be evaluated, the number of bacteriological relapses was 4/81 (6.2 %) in group A, and 2/85 (2.3 %) in group B and 2/76 (2.6 %) in group C. There was no significant differences between the groups. From these results it is seen that the Isoniazid/Rifampicin combination given daily for 6 months is a powerful combination with few failures. Maintaining such chemotherapy for 12 months does not seem to yield substantial gains. In conclusion nine months of chemotherapy with this regime offers a sufficiently ample guarantee of cure.
Short-term chemotherapy of tuberculosis. Cooperative French trial]	A cooperative french trial in the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis has compared the efficacy and the tolerance of daily antituberculous regimes, one of short duration of 18 weeks (HRSZ/HRZ), the other of standard duration of 9 months (HRE). Of 204 patients included in the trial 180 were analysed. No significant difference was found between the two regimes regarding either biological tolerance or clinical outcome. Four relapses were seen within 24 months of the onset of treatment, two in each regime, which shows that 18 weeks treatment is ethically acceptable. Such short course therapy is useful in those patients who would sometimes find prolonged therapy difficult or would be likely to abandon treatment prematurely.
Pharmacokinetics of antituberculosis drugs after oral isolated and simultaneous administration in triple combination.	On the basis of a mathematical analysis of the time course of the drug distributed in the organism there were studied pharmacokinetics of antituberculosis drugs after an isolated oral administration of doses used in daily treatment of tuberculosis, in INH, RMP, EMB, PZA, ETA, CS and TZ, and after a simultaneous--single and repeated--administration of INH, RMP, EMB in a triple combination, after the usual daily doses and after increased intermittent doses administered twice weekly. At first there were determined, with the use of chemical methods, blood concentrations of the antituberculosis drugs studied and their excretion with urine in an unchanged form. The results were analyzed pharmacokinetically by means of a one- compartment model with absorption. By an iteration process, based on non-linear regression analysis, the following pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated: Vd, Ka, Ke, T0.5 abs, T0.5 el, Tmax, Cmax, Clp tot and AUC. Their comparison revealed the following facts: The microbiologically most effective antituberculosis drugs--INH and RMP--are comparable even from the point of view of pharmacokinetics on account of similar pharmacokinetic parameters; in comparison with them EMB has half the size of the AUC, characterizing the efficacy of the drug. In this parameter PTA exceeds more than twice ETA; CS and TZ have a low Ke as well as Clp tot and a high T0.5 el, which is indicative of an insufficient excretion of both drugs. Pharmacokinetic parameters of PZA confirm the possibility of using the dose of 25 mg/kg in the treatment of tuberculosis. A simultaneous administration of the triple drug combination under study influences pharmacokinetic parameters of all the three antituberculosis drugs--it significantly decreases Ka as well as Ke, increases T0.5 el, Tmax, Vd and in INH also Clp tot, but only after a repeated administration. An intermittent administration of the mentioned triple drug combination significantly increases the area under the curve AUC in all the three antituberculosis drugs. This explains the same efficacy of higher doses of antituberculosis drugs, administered twice weekly, in comparison with a daily administration of lower doses of the same combination. The pharmacokinetic process of orally administered antituberculosis drugs can be analyzed according to a one-compartment model of pharmacokinetics, although the kinetics of certain antituberculosis drugs probably proceed in the organism in a more complicated way.
Inhibition of adenocarcinoma TA3 ascites tumor growth by rifamycin derivatives.	A growth inhibitory effect on adenocarcinoma TA3 ascites tumors in LAF1/J mice resulted from the repeated IP administration of subtoxic doses of 3 rifamycin derivatives: rifampicin (Rif)1, dimethylbenzyldesmethylrifampicin (DMB), and rifazone-82 (R-82). A high-viscosity methylcellulose vehicle was found to be essential for obtaining a uniform drug suspension and a significant antitumor effect by the least water soluble derivatives, DMB and R-82. The more hydrophilic derivative, Rif, was found to have a comparable growth inhibitory effect on TA3 cells when prepared in 0.9% NaCl solution with or without added methylcellulose. Oral or SC drug injections did not have an antitumor effect. The results of this study point to the importance of vehicle and route of administration in chemotherapy trials with these compounds.
Activity of intermittently administered rifampicin and cyclopentyl rifamycin (or DL473) on experimental tuberculosis in the mouse]	The results of recent experiences with experimental tuberculous chemotherapy in the mouse give information on the activity of rifampicin (RMP) administered intermittently and on the activity of Cyclopentyl-Rifampicin (or DL473). The activity of RMP decreases as one spaces the treatment without increasing the dose. These observations are compatible with the known facts concerning the mechanism of action of RMP on RNA polymerase, and are unfavourable as regards the intermittent administration of RMP. Cyclopentyl-Rifampicin, a new derivative of Rifamycine SV, administered once per week, is as active as RMP administered six days per week, both in the initial as well as the continuation phase of treatment.
Treatment modalities applied to tuberculosis patients in a French department. Hautes-Pyrénées, 1973 to 1980]	This study of tuberculous treatment in a French department--Les Hautes Pyrenees--was carried out on 539 patients registered on an epidemiological card index from 1973 to 1980. Isoniazid, ethambutol and rifampicin were the drugs most commonly used and were prescribed in 96% of cases by Specialists in thoracic medicine. The mean duration of treatment was a little more than 12 months for the duration of the study. A quarter of the patients were admitted to hospital and this figure did not change during the study from one year to the next although the mean length of stay fell by half between 1973 and 1980, the longest stays in hospital were for social reasons.
Hepatitis in leprosy patients treated by a daily combination of dapsone, rifampin, and a thioamide.	A 13% incidence of hepatitis was observed among 54 cases of multibacillary leprosy treated daily with the three-drug combination of dapsone, rifampin, and a thioamide (ethionamide or prothionamide). No hepatitis was observed among 109 cases of paucibacillary leprosy treated daily with the two-drug combination of dapsone and rifampin. Symptoms were jaundice in five cases and nausea plus vomiting associated with a significant increase of transaminase levels in two cases. In five cases, the symptoms appeared during the first two months of therapy and in two cases, later. Discontinuing treatment with rifampin and the thioamide but not dapsone resulted in recovery. When rifampin was resumed without the thioamide, the hepatitis did not recur. Viral etiology could be eliminated in six cases. Neither sex, age, weight nor the fact that the patient was a new case or a relapse case appeared to be a contributing factor. Hepatotoxicity caused by administration of a thioamide might have been potentiated by the concurrent administration of rifampin.
Ethambutol plus isoniazid compared with rifampicin plus isoniazid in antituberculosis continuation treatment.	Patients with bacteriologically positive pulmonary tuberculosis were treated initially for an average of three and a half months with isoniazid, rifampicin, and ethambutol and then a total of one year's treatment was completed with either rifampicin plus isoniazid (R+I) or with ethambutol plus isoniazid (E+I). 63 patients in each continuation group were followed up for at least one year, and no relapses occurred. Continuation treatment with E+I was as effective and acceptable as that with R+I and was much less costly.
Enterococcal meningitis: combined vancomycin and rifampin therapy.	Intrathecal vancomycin and oral rifampin have been used together to successfully treat a patient with enterococcal meningitis who was allergic to penicillin and who had failed a course of treatment with chloramphenicol. This therapy was tolerated very well and represents an alternate mode of therapy which should be considered in penicillin allergic patients with enterococcal meningitis.
Therapy of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis experimental endocarditis.	Antibiotic therapy of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis endocarditis was investigated with the rabbit endocarditis model. Time-kill studies in vitro demonstrated that gentamicin and rifampin had the most rapid early bactericidal rates. With rifampin alone, rifampin-resistant subpopulations emerged. Combinations of antibiotics with gentamicin or rifampin in vitro did not significantly alter the killing rate but prevented emergence of subpopulations resistant to the latter. In the rabbit endocarditis model, gentamicin and vancomycin were the most effective single antibiotic regimens in terms of ability to reduce the bacterial densities on cardiac valve vegetations. Five treatment regimens were equally effective, including vancomycin, gentamicin, vancomycin plus rifampin or gentamicin, and rifampin plus gentamicin. The three-drug combination of vancomycin, rifampin, and gentamicin did not significantly improve the results. Cephalothin therapy was significantly less effective than any of the regimens noted above. It was no more effective than no treatment at 2 days and was only slightly more effective at 4 days. This result with cephalothin treatment was not predicted by routine types of in vitro antibiotic susceptibility testing. Treatment of rabbits with methicillin or cephalothin was associated with an increase in the subpopulation of bacteria resistant to the respective drugs. A number of regimens show potential for therapy of these infections, including vancomycin plus rifampin or gentamicin, rifampin plus gentamicin, and vancomycin alone.
Postmenopausal tuberculosis of the female genital tract.	A study was made of women with postmenopausal tuberculosis of the genital tract investigated between January 1, 1951, and March 1, 1981. Twenty-six of 701 patients (3.7%) with proved gynecologic tuberculosis had postmenopausal infection. The age incidence of gynecologic tuberculosis has changed in recent years; the proportion of patients over 40 years of age is now much higher than in the past. Since January 1, 1976, a combination of rifampicin, ethambutol, and isoniazid has been employed in the treatment of this disease. Six new cases treated with this drug program are described. No patient showed evidence of recurrence at follow-up.
Rifampin-containing chemotherapy for pulmonary tuberculosis associated with coal workers' pneumoconiosis.	The outcomes of 20 anthracite miners with coal workers' pneumoconiosis and culture-proved pulmonary tuberculosis treated with rifampin-containing chemotherapeutic regimens were determined by a retrospective review. Their mean age was 65 yr, and the duration of underground dust exposure averaged 27 yr. Nine miners had simple pneumoconiosis, 11 had progressive massive fibrosis, and 13 had cavitary disease; 3 also had extrapulmonary disease. All patients were given rifampin (mean, 12 months in survivors) plus one or more other effective agents; the mean duration of treatment with 2 or more drugs was 17 months. Follow-up averaged 46 months in those surviving more than 1 yr. Sputum cultures became negative and remained so within 3 months in 17 patients and within 5 months in the remainder. Eighteen patients survived more than 1 yr after completing chemotherapy. No clinical, radiologic, or bacteriologic relapses were observed during follow-up, but 5 patients died of nontuberculous causes. These results are superior to those reported previously in patients with coal workers' pneumoconiosis treated for pulmonary tuberculosis with regimens not containing rifampin. They suggest that treatment of tuberculosis in coal workers, even in the presence of progressive massive fibrosis and cavitary disease, can yield results as favorable as in nonpneumoconiotic patients provided the initial treatment regimen includes rifampin plus one or more other effective agents.
Parenteral rifampicin in tuberculous and severe non-mycobacterial infections. Clinical data on 237 patients.	A parenteral formulation of rifampicin (Rimactan i.v., Ciba-Geigy, Basel, Switzerland) was administered to 237 critically ill or comatose patients, or patients with gastro-intestinal or absorption problems. There were 160 patients suffering from tuberculosis, 77 suffering from non-tuberculous (non-tb) infections including 30 cases of sepsis, 8 cases of bacterial meningitis and/or cerebral abscess and 9 patients with Legionnaires' disease. The usual daily dose of rifampicin was 450-600 mg, administered in most cases by i.v. bolus (122 cases) or i.v. drip infusion (79 cases) for a period of 1-113 days. Rifampicin was in all cases combined with one or more antimicrobial drug(s). The physicians considered the therapy as successful when the treatment with oral rifampicin could be instituted soon after parenteral administration or when the patients markedly improved their clinical condition. Of a total of 123 tuberculous patients for whom assessment of efficacy was possible, 100 (81.3%) showed favourable clinical results. Of 40 non-tb patients who could be analysed for clinical progress, 32 (80.0%) had a favourable outcome. Special attention should be drawn to the 11 patients with proven staphylococcal infections, of whom 10 were cured clinically and/or bacteriologically. Thrombophlebitis occurred in 10 out of the 237 (4.2%) patients, almost always in patients who were treated for more than 30 days. Systemic unwanted effects occurred in 14 (5.9%); the relationship to the treatment was not always established. Treatment was withdrawn due to unwanted effects in 5 (2.1%) of the 237 patients. Taking into account the severe, life-threatening infections reported, the results suggest that i.v. rifampicin is useful and in some critically ill patients even life-saving. Tolerability was good, even in long-term i.v. administration, although there seems to be the possibility that thrombophlebitis might develop if treatment is continued over 30 days.
Fever response of patients on therapy for pulmonary tuberculosis.	The course of fever was examined in 75 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis treated with modern chemotherapy. Sixteen patients (21%) were afebrile and differed from 59 febrile patients (79%) by having lower incidences of the following: symptoms (p < 0.02), alcoholism (p < 0.01), lung cavitation (p < 0.01), "far advanced disease" (p < 0.05), and sputum smears containing "numerous" acid-fast bacilli (p < 0.01). Resolution of fever was variable (mean, 16 days; median, 10 days; range, 1 to 109 days). Thirty-eight patients (64%) became afebrile within 2 wk (group 1); 21 (36%) had fever for longer than 2 wk (group 2). Far advanced disease and high temperature (> 38.8 degrees C) on admission were more frequent in group 2 (p < 0.05 and p < 0.01, respectively). However, the groups did not differ in demographic features or in the frequency of symptoms on admission, alcoholism, lung cavitation, numerous acid-fast bacilli on sputum smears, or coexisting bacterial respiratory infection. Antimicrobial drug treatment of presumed coexistent bacterial infection in 19 febrile patients did not influence the course of fever. Analysis of variance and covariance were used to compare the independent effects of various antituberculosis drug regimens on the course of fever; no significant differences were observed.
Role of antibiotics in the treatment of infected joint prosthesis]	Infection is a rare, but extremely severe, complication of prosthetic joint surgery. Until recently, antimicrobial agents were not generally used in the management of such infections. Antibiotics now have an important role, either combined with replacement surgery or even as the only treatment in selected cases. In earlier studies, high failure rates were reported with conservative therapy. These unsatisfactory results were probably due to a lack of collaboration between surgeons, infectious disease specialists and microbiologists. All patients with a long history of infection or with loosened implants should undergo joint replacement. Early or rapidly diagnosed hematogenous infection in patients with stable prostheses can be treated conservatively. In most cases, such a treatment is preceded by revision surgery, which is needed for microbiological diagnosis and for debridement. The choice of antibiotics depends on the microorganism involved and the results of susceptibility testing. The most important etiologic agents are Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase-negative staphylococci. Antimicrobial drugs used in device-related infections should act on surface-adherent and stationary-phase bacteria. In an animal model, rifampin combined with a quinolone has proved to have the highest cure rate against staphylococcal foreign-body infection. Rifampin is indeed highly efficacious on surface-adherent and stationary-phase bacteria. These experimental data were confirmed in clinical studies; cure rates of 60-80% were observed with rifampin combinations without joint replacement. Antimicrobial therapy should be continued over at least 3 months in hip implant infection and at least 6 months in knee implant infection. Before treatment is stopped, signs and symptoms of infection must have been absent with C-reactive protein normal for at least 1 month.
Pharmacodynamics of levofloxacin, ofloxacin, and ciprofloxacin, alone and in combination with rifampin, against methicillin-susceptible and -resistant Staphylococcus aureus in an in vitro infection model.	The pharmacodynamic properties of levofloxacin (an optically active isomer of ofloxacin), ofloxacin, and ciprofloxacin, alone and in combination with rifampin, were evaluated over 24 to 48 h against clinical isolates of methicillin-susceptible and -resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA 1199 and MRSA 494, respectively) in an in vitro infection model. The incidence of the emergence of resistance among the test strains was also determined. The fluoroquinolones were administered to simulate dosage regimens of 200 mg, 400 mg given intravenously (i.v.) every 12 h (q12h), and 400 and 800 mg given i.v. q24h. Rifampin was dosed at 600 mg i.v. q24h. Although the MICs and MBCs of the quinolones were similar (< or = 0.49 microgram/ml), levofloxacin was the most potent agent in time-kill studies on the basis of the time required to achieve a 99.9% reduction in the number of log10 CFU per milliliter (e.g., with the regimen of levofloxacin [400 mg q24h, 6.5 h] versus ofloxacin [12.5 h], P < 0.024, and levofloxacin versus ciprofloxacin [6.5 versus 9.0 h], P < 0.0017) against MSSA 1199. The killing activity of levofloxacin was similar to that of ofloxacin against MRSA 494 (time to achieve a 99.9% reduction in the number of log10 CFU per milliliter, 11.1 versus 13.8 h, respectively). Levofloxacin and ofloxacin dosed once daily demonstrated greater bactericidal activity than when they were dosed twice daily against MSSA 1199. Resistance to levofloxacin or ofloxacin was not observed with any dosage regimen. Furthermore, resistance to ofloxacin was not detected when the half-life was reduced from 6 to 3 h. Regrowth and stable resistance (65-fold increase in the MIC for MSSA 1199; 16-fold increase in the MIC for MRSA 494) were noted within 24 h of exposure to ciprofloxacin at 200 mg q12h. Combination therapy with rifampin prevented the emergence of resistance to ciprofloxacin. Neither DNA gyrase alteration nor an energy-dependent efflux process mediated by the norA gene appeared to be responsible for the resistance observed. Our data suggest that with levofloxacin there is a more rapid onset of bactericidal activity than with ofloxacin or ciprofloxacin against MSSA 1199 and that the activity of levofloxacin is similar to that of ofloxacin but better than that of ciprofloxacin against MRSA 494. Resistance was noted only after exposure to the low dose of ciprofloxacin. Resistance to ofloxacin did not develop even when the pharmacokinetics of the drug were set to equal those of ciprofloxacin, suggesting that ofloxacin differs from ciprofloxacin irrespective of time of exposure. The resistance to ciprofloxacin that developed in our vitro model may be mediated by the cfx-ofx locus, which has been shown to be associated with low-level fluoroquinolone resistance. Overall, levofloxacin demonstrated potent bactericidal activity against S. aureus, without the emergence of resistance in our infection model. Quinolones dosed once daily were more effective than equivalent dosages administered twice daily. The addition of rifampin was not synergistic but prevented the emergence of ciprofloxacin resistance.
Possible implications of doxycycline-rifampin interaction for treatment of brucellosis.	We studied the possible interaction between rifampin and doxycycline in 20 patients with brucellosis treated randomly with either doxycycline and streptomycin or doxycycline and rifampin. The doxycycline levels in the plasma of patients in the group treated with rifampin were significantly lower than those in the plasma of patients treated with doxycycline and streptomycin. Furthermore, clearance in patients treated with rifampin was significantly higher than that in patients treated with doxycycline and streptomycin, and consequently, the elimination half-life and the area under the concentration-time curve were significantly lower. There was no therapeutic failure or relapse in the group treated with doxycycline and streptomycin, whereas 2 of 10 patients in the group treated with doxycycline and rifampin had a therapeutic failure or relapse. The plasma doxycycline levels had an inverse correlation with plasma rifampin levels. In the group treated with rifampin, those who were rapid acetylators had lower levels of doxycycline. In conclusion, combined treatment with rifampin reduces the levels of doxycycline in plasma. These data suggest that therapeutic failures or relapses may result from this interaction.
Paucibacillary leprosy patients treated with multidrug therapy four years experience (1988 to 1991) in Bangladesh.	Two hundred and fifty paucibacillary (PB) leprosy patients were treated with WHO recommended multidrug therapy (MDT) and followed up them for four years. The paucibacillary MDT regimen (PBR) was well accepted and tolerated by the patients. Clinical regression was attained in 60% patients after 6 doses of PBR. Reversal reaction occurred in 14% cases and relapse were found in 1.6% cases 18-24 months after completing the treatment. The incidence of reversal reaction was high in patients with more than 2 thickened nerve trunks associated with more than 5 patches.
Isoniazid and acetylisoniazid kinetics in serum and urine in pulmonary primary complex with intermittent regimen.	Twenty patients, 1 through 13 years of age from Pediatric Tuberculosis Clinic of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, suffering from pulmonary primary complex (PPC) were investigated for serum and urine concentrations of isoniazid (INH) and acetylisoniazid (AcINH). Patients were put on an intermittent regimen - 2HR, 4H2R2, INH (H) was given in a dose of 10 mg/kg/day for first 2 months (the daily dose phase), followed by 20 mg/kg/dose in biweekly phase of regimen for rest of the 4 months, whereas, rifampicin (R) was given as 12 mg/kg in both daily as well as biweekly phases. In the biweekly phase of regimen, after 7 days of biweekly administration of drugs, INH and AcINH concentrations were estimated by HPLC at 0,1,3,5 and 7 hours in serum, and at 0-3, 3-6, 6-12 and 12-24 hour-intervals of drug administration in urine. Peak concentrations of INH and AcINH (Mean +/- SD) were 2.6 +/- 1.8 and 5.5 +/- 2.6 micrograms/ml in serum (Cmax), and 5.7 +/- 4.8 and 21.5 +/- 12.1 mg in urine, respectively. Time to achieve Cmax (Tmax), for INH and AcINH were 1 and 5 hours respectively while time of peak concentration in urine for INH was 3-6 hours and for AcINH 6-12 hours. The half-life (T1/2) of INH was 4.5 hours and area under serum-concentration time-curve (AUC0-7h) was 20.7 micrograms/ml/h (mean values). In biweekly phase (4H2R2) of regimen, just before administration of next dose, 0 hour (or 72 hours) concentration of INH was estimated at 0.47 +/- 0.3 micrograms/ml.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Mediastinitis in heart transplant recipients: successful treatment by closed local irrigation.	Following cardiac transplantation bacterial mediastinitis is a severe early complication. Between March 1986 and September 1993, cardiac transplant operations were performed in 101 patients, of whom six developed purulent mediastinitis. Treatment consisted of surgical débridement, closed local irrigation, drainage and systemic antibiotics. No patient died as a result of bacterial mediastinitis. Low cardiac output and requirements for resternotomy for bleeding and prolonged artificial ventilation were significantly higher in the group with sternal infection. In contrast, since January 1991 the dose of corticosteroid was decreased from 5 mg/kg per day to 1.5 mg/kg per day beginning on the first day after operation. A total of 51 heart transplant operations have been subsequently performed without sign of mediastinal infection.
An outbreak of tuberculosis in a captive herd of Arabian oryx (Oryx leucoryx): management.	An outbreak of tuberculosis due to Mycobacterium bovis in a herd of Arabian oryx (Oryx leucoryx) was managed by sanitary and medical measures. The sanitary measures included the isolation of infected animals, the monitoring of animals with a range of diagnostic tests and the hand-rearing of the progeny of the infected herd. All the infected oryx were treated with a mixture of isoniazid at 10 mg/kg bodyweight, ethambutol hydrochloride at 15 mg/kg bodyweight and rifampicin at 10 mg/kg bodyweight administered daily in the drinking water. These measures resulted in the cessation of mortalities, a decrease in the numbers of moderate and high risk animals and the production of tuberculosis-free animals for reintroduction into the wild.
Mycobacterium avium complex develop resistance to synergistically active drug combinations during infection.	Isolates of Mycobacterium avium complex from five patients on longterm (3-5 yrs) anti-mycobacterial drug treatment were collected during the early and late phase of disease, and studied in vitro for their susceptibility to anti-mycobacterial drugs and drug-combinations. All isolates were resistant or moderately resistant to ethambutol, rifampicin and streptomycin when given singly; however, all strains isolated early in the disease were susceptible to the combination of ethambutol with either rifampicin or streptomycin. All late isolates had developed resistance to one or both of these combinations. Three of the patients died within a year after the last isolation of M. avium complex, and the two remaining patients still have severe chronic disease. It is concluded that the susceptibility of M. avium strains to combinations of drugs should be monitored during the course of treatment, in order to guide the selection of effective drug-combinations throughout the infection.
Antibacterial activity, antibiotic retention, and infection resistance of a rifampin-impregnated gelatin-sealed Dacron graft.	A gelatin-sealed porous Dacron graft impregnated with rifampin was evaluated in a two-part study of its use in preventing prosthetic infection.
Treatment of vascular graft infection by in situ replacement with a rifampin-bonded gelatin-sealed Dacron graft.	The purpose of this study was to treat an established prosthetic vascular graft infection by in situ replacement with a rifampin-bonded gelatin-sealed Dacron graft in an animal model.
An epidemic of tuberculosis in an elementary school, Sanremo, Italy, 1993.	In late 1992, three cases of tuberculosis were identified in school children attending a small elementary school in Sanremo, Italy. In order to identify further cases and determine the source, an epidemiologic investigation was undertaken. Tine test and X rays were performed on all students and school personnel. A total of 80% of the 59 students in the school had positive tine test reactions, as did 100% of the 12 teachers. All but one of the positive students had converted since last tested, as had the nine teachers who had been previously negative. The source of the outbreak was a teacher who had been in direct classroom contact with two of the five classes and had worked closely with the rest in building of a Christmas creche for the school. This outbreak suggests that increasing attention should be paid to school as potential foci for the spread of tuberculosis and that greater attention be paid to teacher screening, particularly in areas of higher tuberculosis prevalence.
Use of intravenous rifampin in neonates with persistent staphylococcal bacteremia.	Ten neonates with persistent staphylococcal bacteremia (positive blood cultures for > or = 5 days despite appropriate antibiotic therapy) received intravenous (i.v.) rifampin in combination with vancomycin with or without aminoglycoside. Their mean birth weight and length of gestation were 900 g and 27 weeks, respectively. Their ages at the time of infection ranged from 6 to 64 days (mean, 26 days). The staphylococcal isolates were methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (five isolates), methicillin-susceptible S. aureus (two isolates), and coagulase-negative staphylococci (three isolates). The mean number of bacteremia days prior to administration of i.v. rifampin was 8.3 (range, 5 to 15 days), despite a mean peak vancomycin concentration of 33 micrograms/ml. The dosing of rifampin varied from 2.5 to 10 mg/kg of body weight every 12 h. The mean duration of the rifampin course was 9.7 days (range, 3 to 16 days). Of the 10 neonates, 8 (80%) had sterile blood cultures within 24 h, 1 (10%) had a sterile blood culture within 48 h, and 1 (10%) had a sterile blood culture within 5 days of being placed on i.v. rifampin. No adverse effects were noted in this small group of infants. Seven of the 10 neonates survived; three died from unrelated complications. The MIC ranges of amikacin, vancomycin, and rifampin for the isolates were 2.0 to 16, 0.5 to 2.0, and 0.0013 to 0.04 micrograms/ml, respectively. We also studied eight infants, with a mean age of 23 days, who were receiving i.v. or oral rifampin at a dose of 10 mg/kg/day. For i.v. administration, the peak serum concentration of rifampin (mean +/- standard deviation) was 4.02 +/- 1.22 microgram/ml. The mean trough level at 12 h postifution was 1.11 +/- 0.48 micrograms/ml. For oral administration, the concentrations of rifampin in serum ranged from 0.59 to 2.86 micrograms/ml (mean, 1.86 +/- 0.96 microgram/ml) at 2 h postingestion, increasing to a peak concentration of 2.8 micrograms/ml at 8 h postingestion. The mean 12-h postingestion level was 0.77 +/- 0.03 microgram/ml. From the study of this limited series of neonates, rifampin appears to be a safe and effective addition to therapy when staphylococcal bacteremia is persistent despite vancomycin treatment.
Six months versus nine months chemotherapy for tuberculosis of lymph nodes: final results.	Of 199 patients treated for peripheral lymph node tuberculosis, 157 completed treatment as planned. Fifty received E2H9R9, 56 Z2 H9R9 and 51 Z2H6R6 regimens (E = Ethambutol; H = Isoniazid; R = Rifampicin; Z = pyrazinamide: numbers denote duration of therapy in months). In follow-up from 9 to 30 months, there were no significant differences between the regimens in enlargement of existing nodes, development of new glands or sinuses, in the need for new operative procedures, or in the percentage with measurable nodes at 30 months. Nine patients were felt to have had a clinical relapse (4 E2H9R9; 2 Z2H9R9; 3 Z2H6R6) although this was not confirmed bacteriologically in the five cases where material was sent for culture. These differences were not statistically different. The 6 month Z2H6R6 regimen performs just as well as the 9 month regimens Z2H9R9 and E2H9R9 in patients with fully sensitive organisms, and has the additional benefits of convenience and reduced cost.
Intensive short course chemotherapy in the management of tuberculous meningitis.	Short course chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis (TBM) is advocated by several groups, but relatively few children have been so treated and followed up.
Use of microsphere technology for targeted delivery of rifampin to Mycobacterium tuberculosis-infected macrophages.	Microsphere technology was used to develop formulations of rifampin for targeted delivery to host macrophages. These formulations were prepared by using biocompatible polymeric excipients of lactide and glycolide copolymers. Release characteristics were examined in vitro and also in two monocytic cell lines, the murine J774 and the human Mono Mac 6 cell lines. Bioassay assessment of cell culture supernatants from monocyte cell lines showed release of bioactive rifampin during a 7-day experimental period. Treatment of Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv-infected monocyte cell lines with rifampin-loaded microspheres resulted in a significant decrease in numbers of CFU at 7 days following initial infection, even though only 8% of the microsphere-loaded rifampin was released. The levels of rifampin released from microsphere formulations within monocytes were more effective at reducing M. tuberculosis intracellular growth than equivalent doses of rifampin given as a free drug. These results demonstrate that rifampin-loaded microspheres can be formulated for effective sustained and targeted delivery to host macrophages.
A comparative study on the efficacy of the new quinolone alatrofloxacin in the treatment of experimental legionellosis in guinea pigs.	The in vivo efficacy of trovafloxacin, intraperitoneally administered as alatrofloxacin (CP-116,517), was assessed and compared with that of erythromycin, alone or in combination with rifampicin, in a model of Legionella pneumophila pneumonia in guinea pigs. Trovafloxacin (5 mg/kg administered as alatrofloxacin once daily for 7 days) gave a survival rate of 100% in infected animals. Clearance of bacteria and of bacteria-induced lesions from lungs was achieved by day 6 post-inoculation. The lungs of trovafloxacin-treated animals remained free of bacteria at day 28 post-challenge. Trovafloxacin proved as effective as erythromycin administered intraperitoneally, but was superior to erythromycin alone. or in combination with rifampicin, when given orally.
Primary tuberculous tracheitis.	We report a case of primary tuberculous tracheitis in an otherwise healthy woman who presented with cough and stridor due to diffuse tracheal narrowing by tuberculous pseudomembranous lesion, which resolved completely with antituberculosis chemotherapy.
Treatment of newly diagnosed patients with infiltrative and disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis]	To enhance the efficiency of treatment in new cases of infiltrative and disseminated destructive pulmonary tuberculosis, an intermittent (twice daily) regimen of intravenous dropwise administration of three drugs (isoniazid, rifampicin, PASK) was proposed. The immediate results of clinical observations suggest that intermittent 3-drug intravenous chemotherapy supplemented by collapse therapy in some indicated cases, provides a high control over the therapy, sparing drug load, good tolerance, and rather high efficiency: elimination of destructions in 81.4% (mean 4.2 months), cessation of bacterial isolation in 88.9% in the early (2.2 months) period.
Stability of bethanechol chloride, pyrazinamide, quinidine sulfate, rifampin, and tetracycline hydrochloride in extemporaneously compounded oral liquids.	The stability of five drugs commonly prescribed for use in oral liquids but not commercially available as such was studied. Bethanechol chloride 5 mg/mL, pyrazinamide 10 mg/mL, quinidine sulfate 10 mg/mL, rifampin 25 mg/mL, and tetracycline hydrochloride 25 mg/mL were each prepared in a 1:1 mixture of Ora-Sweet and Ora-Plus (Paddock Laboratories), a 1:1 mixture of Ora-Sweet SF and Ora-Plus, and cherry syrup and placed in 120-mL amber clear polyethylene terephthalate bottles. Three bottles of each liquid were stored at 5 degrees C and three at 25 degrees C, all in the dark. Samples were taken initially and at various times up to 60 days for analysis by high-performance liquid chromatography and assessment of appearance and odor; pH was measured. A mean of at least 90% of the initial drug concentration was retained for 60 days in the liquids containing bethanechol chloride, pyrazinamide, or quinidine sulfate and for 28 days in the rifampin-containing liquids and the mixture of tetracycline hydrochloride and Ora-Sweet-Ora-Plus at both 5 and 25 degrees C. Tetracycline hydrochloride concentrations of 90% or more of the initial concentration were retained in the liquids prepared with Ora-Sweet SF-Ora-Plus for 10 days at 5 degrees C and 7 days at 25 degrees C and in those prepared with cherry syrup for 7 days at 5 degrees C and 2 days at 25 degrees C. No substantial changes in the appearance, odor, or pH of any liquid were observed. At 5 and 25 degrees C, bethanechol chloride 5 mg/mL, pyrazinamide 10 mg/mL, and quinidine sulfate 10 mg/mL were stable in three extemporaneously compounded oral liquids for 60 days and rifampin 25 mg/mL was stable for 28 days. The stability of tetracycline hydrochloride 25 mg/mL varied with the vehicle.
Evaluation of biodegradable rifampicin-bearing microsphere formulations using a stability-indicating high-performance liquid chromatographic assay.	The validation of a rapid and selective stability-indicating high-performance liquid chromatographic procedure for the determination of rifampicin (RIF) and its decomposition products in aqueous solution is described. Direct injection and column switching HPLC procedures have been compared and, owing to the increased sensitivity and precision, the latter has been applied to the study of RIF stability in the presence of isoascorbic acid at pH 7.4. The time-dependent hydrolytic decomposition of RIF to 3-formyl rifamycin SV (RSV) was found to be biexponential. Log concentration versus time plots of RIF and RSV decomposition were found to be parallel, indicating a pseudo equilibrium decomposition process. This feature allowed corrections for the amounts lost to secondary reactions to be calculated when the assay was applied to the determination of release characteristics of RIF from biodegradable poly-d, l-lactide-co-glycolide microspheres.
Efficacy of a short 6 month therapeutic coursefor HIV infected tuberculosis patients in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire]	From December 1992 to February 1993, 104 newly diagnosed pulmonary tuberculosis patients were enrolled in a prospective cohort study to assess the response to the 6 month-short-course regimen implemented in Cote d'Ivoire. This treatment encompassed the daily intake of Rifampicin and Pyrazinamide for 2 months followed by Rifampicin and Isoniazid for the remaining 4 months. All the patients were enrolled at the Treichville Tuberculosis Treatment Centre in Abidjan, and a follow-up of 6 months was observed for each patient. All in all, 41 patients were HIV-positive whereas 63 where HIV-negative. No statistical difference was noted between HIV-positive and HIV-negative patients with regard to the completion of therapy (85% versus 87%). The cure rate after an effective 6 month-therapy was similar among HIV-positive and HIV-negative patients (83% versus 84%) as well as the treatment failure rate which was 2.4% and 3% respectively. The results clearly indicate that the 6 month-short-course regimen policy implemented in Côte d'Ivoire is as effective for the treatment of HIV-associated tuberculosis as for the treatment of tuberculosis.
Results of examination in healthy volunteers of rifampicin and isoniazid bioavailability from Polish two-drug combination capsules of rifamazid used for tuberculosis treatment]	Purpose of the study was the examination of the relative bioavailability of rifampicin and isoniazid from Rifamazid (fixed-dose combination) and bioavailability of each drug in free simultaneous combination. The study was carried out as an open randomized cross-over study comprising 16 healthy volunteers for study of rifampicin and 15 healthy volunteers (slow acetylators) for isoniazid. The results have shown, that the pattern of absorption, elimination, plasma concentrations and pharmacokinetics parameters were found similar after administration of the drugs in free and in fixed combination.
In vivo efficacy of antimicrobial-coated fabric from prosthetic heart valve sewing rings.	Antimicrobial coating of medical devices has recently emerged as a potentially effective method for preventing device-related infections. The objective of this animal study was to examine in vivo the antimicrobial efficacy of prosthetic heart valve sewing ring fabric coated with: (i) silver; (ii) combined minocycline and rifampin (M/R); or (iii) combined chlorhexidine and chloroxylenol (CH/CX).
Investigation of a rifampin, fusidic-acid and mupirocin releasing silicone catheter.	After strict hygienical measures have been exhausted the use of plastic materials with antibacterial activity may reduce catheter related-bacterial colonization. An antimicrobial silicone catheter was investigated by HPLC-measurement, SEM, antimicrobial assays and standard biocompatibility tests. The modified catheter was highly biocompatible and the antimicrobial leaching non-toxic. The initially release rate was governed by the drug solubility in the 'sink' and surface loading ('burst effect'). The second continuous period depended on the drug velocity in the silicone matrix and was extended up to 100 days with a proportionality to square root of t for each drug. Diffusion exponents were in range of 2 x 10(-8) to 1 x 10(-9) (cm2 sec(-1)). The lower diffusion exponent of mupirocin was explained by its higher cohesion energy and lower physico-chemical compatibility with the embedding silicone. The antimicrobial drugs were in a molecular-dispersed state with the silicone-matrix, whereas superficially located crystals of the antibiotics covering the catheter surface could be demonstrated by SEM.
Tamoxifen and toremifene concentrations in plasma are greatly decreased by rifampin.	Rifampin (INN, rifampicin) is a potent inducer of cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes involved in drug metabolism and therefore causes many drug interactions.
