Antibiotic combination therapy in patients with chronic, treatment-resistant pouchitis.	Pouchitis is the major long-term complication after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis. About 15% of patients have a chronic, treatment-resistant disease.
Rifaximin versus ciprofloxacin for the treatment of traveler's diarrhea: a randomized, double-blind clinical trial.	Rifaximin is a poorly absorbed rifamycin derivative under investigation for treatment of infectious diarrhea. Adult students from the United States in Mexico and international tourists in Jamaica were randomized to receive either rifaximin (400 mg twice per day) or ciprofloxacin (500 mg twice per day) for 3 days, following a double-blinded model, from June 1997 to September 1998. A total of 187 subjects with diarrhea were studied. Time from initiation of therapy to passage of last unformed stool was comparable for those receiving rifaximin or ciprofloxacin (median, 25.7 hours versus 25.0 hours, respectively). There was no significant difference in the proportion of subjects in the 2 groups with respect to clinical improvement during the first 24 hours (P=.199), failure to respond to treatment (P=.411), or microbiological cure (P=.222). The incidence of adverse events was low and similar in each group. Rifaximin is a safe and effective alternative to ciprofloxacin in the treatment of traveler's diarrhea.
Rifaximin improves driving simulator performance in a randomized trial of patients with minimal hepatic encephalopathy.	Patients with cirrhosis and minimal hepatic encephalopathy (MHE) have driving difficulties but the effects of therapy on driving performance is unclear. We evaluated whether performance on a driving simulator improves in patients with MHE after treatment with rifaximin.
The role of rifaximin therapy in patients with irritable bowel syndrome without constipation.	Alterations in gut flora may play an important role in the pathophysiology of bowel symptoms, especially in patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). If so, antibiotics that affect gut flora may offer a novel approach for the management of patients with IBS. Here, we discuss the results of two identically designed, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials (TARGET 1 and TARGET 2) of a poorly absorbed antibiotic, rifaximin, in patients with IBS. In these studies, 1260 patients (females 76.1 and 72.1%, respectively) who had IBS without constipation were randomized to receive either rifaximin 550 mg or placebo, three-times daily for 2 weeks. Subsequently, daily symptoms were assessed and patients were followed up for 10 weeks. The primary outcome measure - adequate relief of global IBS symptoms during the first 4 weeks after treatment - was met in significantly more patients who received rifaximin than placebo (p < 0.001). In addition, more patients in the rifaximin group than in the placebo group (p < 0.001) reported an adequate relief of bloating, and an improvement in abdominal pain and stool consistency - secondary outcome measures. The incidence of adverse events with rifaximin was similar to placebo, and the drug was well tolerated. In summary, a 2-week course of rifaximin provided significant relief of IBS symptoms, as well as bloating and abdominal pain.
Severe anaphylaxis from rifamycin SV.	Anaphylaxis to topical application of rifamycin SV, which is used topically in the fields of surgery and dermatology, is rare.
