The importance of monotherapy in pregnancy.	The great majority of women with epilepsy who become pregnant have normal pregnancies and healthy infants. However, in utero exposure to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) can put infants of women with epilepsy at increased risk for a variety of abnormalities, including intrauterine growth retardation, minor anomalies, major congenital malformations, microcephaly, and cognitive dysfunction. Various combinations of these findings can occur in an individual infant and are referred to as the fetal anticonvulsant syndrome (FAS). The most common major malformations are cleft lip/palate, heart defects, neural tube defects, and urogenital defects. Although AEDs have teratogenic risks, withdrawal of all AEDs before pregnancy is not a realistic option for many women with epilepsy. The results of several studies indicate that AED monotherapy reduces the risk for development of FAS compared with polytherapy exposure in utero. Current treatment guidelines advise use of AED monotherapy when possible and folate supplementation beginning before and continuing throughout pregnancy. Prenatal screening for major malformations should be offered. Careful planning and management of any pregnancy in women with epilepsy is essential to increase the likelihood of a healthy outcome for mother and infant.
Enhanced external counterpulsation for ischemic heart disease: what's behind the curtain?	Enhanced external counterpulsation (EECP) has been shown to reduce angina and to improve objective measures of myocardial ischemia in patients with refractory angina. Prospective clinical studies and large treatment registries suggest that a course of EECP is associated with prolongation of the time to exercise-induced ST-segment depression and resolution of myocardial perfusion defects, as well as with enhanced exercise tolerance and quality of life. With a growing knowledge base supporting the safety and beneficial clinical effects associated with EECP, this therapy can be considered a valuable treatment option, particularly in patients who have exhausted traditional revascularization methods and yet remain symptomatic despite optimal medical care. However, although the concept of external counterpulsation was introduced almost four decades ago, and despite growing evidence supporting the clinical benefit and safety of this therapeutic modality, little is firmly established regarding the mechanisms responsible for the beneficial effects associated with this technique. Suggested mechanisms contributing to the clinical benefit of EECP include improvement in endothelial function, promotion of coronary collateralization, enhancement of ventricular function, peripheral effects similar to those observed with regular physical exercise, and nonspecific placebo effects. This review summarizes the current evidence for a contribution of these mechanisms to the clinical benefit associated with EECP.
Clinical features and contemporary management of patients with low and preserved ejection fraction heart failure: baseline characteristics of patients in the Candesartan in Heart failure-Assessment of Reduction in Mortality and morbidity (CHARM) programme.	To describe the clinical characteristics and contemporary treatment of a broad spectrum of patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) randomised in the Candesartan in Heart failure-Assessment of Reduction in Mortality and morbidity (CHARM) programme, consisting of three component studies comparing placebo to candesartan.
Effectiveness of aggressive management of dyslipidemia in a collaborative-care practice model.	The Cardiovascular Risk Identification and Treatment Center was established in 1997, adopting a collaborative-care clinic model for the purpose of improving the management of high-risk patients with dyslipidemia. This was a retrospective analysis of 417 high-risk patients with > or =1 year of follow-up laboratory data. Analysis included changes in total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), high-density lipoprotein (HDL), non-HDL, triglycerides, and total cholesterol to HDL ratio; lipoprotein goal achievement; Framingham risk score; liver function; and cardiovascular events. At baseline, 66% of patients had coronary heart disease (CHD) or equivalent risk, 45% were not receiving dyslipidemia therapy, and 29% were on statin monotherapy. After 3 years in the program, 56% were receiving combination therapy, 41% were on monotherapy, and 2% were not on therapy. The 3 most common treatment regimens were statin plus niacin (36%), statin alone (22%), and niacin alone (14%). All lipoproteins improved from baseline (p <0.001). Overall, 62% to 74% of patients reached singular lipid goals and 35% achieved combined lipid goals. Patients with Framingham 10-year CHD risk of >20% were reduced from 6% to <1%. Only 29 patients (7.0%) had a cardiovascular event, including 5 (1.0%) who experienced a myocardial infarction. Aspartate aminotransferase/alanine transferase elevation >3 times normal occurred in 1% of patients. In conclusion, a collaborative-care practice model adopting individualized, aggressive pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic treatment strategies is highly effective in achieving lipid goals, is sustainable, and is safe. Furthermore, this approach yields reduced projected 10-year CHD risk. A low rate of cardiovascular events was observed.
Motivational intervention to reduce alcohol-exposed pregnancies--Florida, Texas, and Virginia, 1997-2001.	Prenatal alcohol use is a threat to healthy pregnancy outcomes for many U.S. women. During 1999, approximately 500,000 pregnant women reported having one or more drinks during the preceding month, and approximately 130,000 reported having seven or more alcohol drinks per week or engaging in binge drinking (i.e., five or more drinks in a day). These heavier drinking patterns have been associated with fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) and alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorders (ARND). Lower levels of alcohol consumption (i.e., fewer than seven drinks per week) also have been associated with measurable effects on children's development and behavior. Although the majority of women reduce their alcohol use substantially when they realize they are pregnant, a large proportion do not realize they are pregnant until well into the first trimester and, therefore, might continue to drink alcohol during this critical period of fetal development. To reduce alcohol-exposed pregnancies, CDC initiated a multisite pilot study (phase I clinical trial) in 1997 to investigate the use of a dual intervention focused on both alcohol-use reduction and effective contraception among childbearing-aged women at high risk for an alcohol-exposed pregnancy (Project CHOICES). This report describes the association between baseline drinking measures and the success women have achieved in reducing their risk for an alcohol-exposed pregnancy. The analysis compares the impact of the motivational intervention at 6-month follow-up on women drinking at high-, medium-, and low-risk drinking levels. The findings indicate that although 69% of the women in the study reduced their risk for an alcohol-exposed pregnancy, women with the lowest baseline drinking measures achieved the highest rates of outcome success, primarily by choosing effective contraception and, secondarily, by reducing alcohol use. Women with higher baseline drinking measures chose both approaches equally but achieved lower success rates for reducing their risk for an alcohol-exposed pregnancy. A randomized controlled trial of the motivational intervention is under way to further investigate outcomes of the phase I study.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use and risk of adult leukemia.	Epidemiological studies have suggested that regular use of aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may be associated with reduced risk of some types of malignancy. Leukemia incidence and self-reported aspirin, as well as other NSAID use, was examined in a prospective cohort of >28,000 postmenopausal women. Eighty-one incident leukemia cases occurred during the period 1993-2000. The multivariate-adjusted relative risk of leukemia was 0.45 (95% confidence interval: 0.27-0.75) for women who reported using aspirin two or more times per week compared with women who reported no use. Similar inverse associations were observed for the two subtypes of leukemia analyzed. In contrast, for women who reported using nonaspirin NSAIDs, the multivariate-adjusted relative risk of leukemia was 1.31 (95% confidence interval: 0.77-2.22). Analyses that excluded cases diagnosed before 1995 did not notably alter results. To our knowledge, this is the first prospective study to examine the association between NSAID use and incident adult leukemia. Although preliminary, the notable differences observed in leukemia risk between aspirin and nonaspirin NSAID use warrant further investigation.
College students' early cessation from episodic heavy drinking: prevalence and correlates.	The author surveyed 788 undergraduates at a large public university (overall response rate 54%) to (1) estimate the proportion of college students who cease engaging in a pattern of episodic heavy drinking (EHD) and (2) identify individual and contextual factors associated with early cessation. He used a staging algorithm to classify respondents into 4 stages of EHD cessation. Of the 60% who had engaged in EHD, 64% continued to drink heavily with no intention of stopping, 12% continued to drink heavily but were thinking about stopping, 14% had ceased temporarily, and 9% had ceased permanently. Students who had stopped EHD perceived more risks and fewer benefits associated with alcohol misuse, but they did not differ in their perceptions of normative alcohol use on campus. Many collegiate heavy drinkers cease EHD before graduation, and others may be predisposed to moderate their alcohol use. Tailored interventions that alter alcohol expectancies may facilitate early cessation from EHD.
Relationship of walking to mortality among US adults with diabetes.	Walking is associated with reduced diabetes incidence, but few studies have examined whether it reduces mortality among those who already have diabetes.
Secondary prevention through cardiac rehabilitation: position paper of the Working Group on Cardiac Rehabilitation and Exercise Physiology of the European Society of Cardiology.	The purpose of this statement is to provide specific recommendations in regard to evaluation and intervention in each of the core components of cardiac rehabilitation (CR) to assist CR staff in the design and development of their programmes; the statement should also assist health care providers, insurers, policy makers and consumers in the recognition of the comprehensive nature of such programmes. Those charged with responsibility for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease, whether at European, at national or at individual centre level, need to consider where and how structured programmes of CR can be delivered to the large constituency of patients now considered eligible for CR.
Social and psychological influences on HIV preventive behaviors of youth in Haiti.	To examine HIV/AIDS prevention-related sexual behaviors and identify potential predictors of those behaviors among youth living in Haiti.
Mortality risk reduction associated with smoking cessation in patients with coronary heart disease: a systematic review.	As more interventions become available for the treatment of coronary heart disease (CHD), policy makers and health practitioners need to understand the benefits of each intervention, to better determine where to focus resources. This is particularly true when a patient with CHD quits smoking.
Allergy: the price we pay for cleaner living?	There is an urgent need to identify the environmental changes responsible for the increasing burden of allergic disease. A reduction in the diversity and magnitude of "microbial burden" in early life has been implicated in this growing propensity for allergy sensitization. The "hygiene hypothesis" proposes that deficient bacteria-derived maturation signals during early immune development increases the susceptibility to allergic responses. This article reviews the current evidence for this relationship in the context of improved public health and living conditions.
Prevalence, awareness, treatment and control of hypertension in Chinese adults]	To identify the prevalence, distribution, current status of awareness and control of hypertension in Chinese adult population.
Systematic review of the effectiveness of community pharmacy-based interventions to reduce risk behaviours and risk factors for coronary heart disease.	The aim of the study was to provide a critical and comprehensive overview of the published peer-reviewed evidence relating to community pharmacy-based activity in the reduction of risk behaviours and risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD).
Factors influencing hepatitis B vaccine uptake in injecting drug users.	Hepatitis B infection in injecting drug users is an important public health problem. Active immunization against hepatitis B is immunogenic and safe, but uptake rates in targeted vaccination programmes are low. This study was undertaken to identify factors associated with the uptake of hepatitis B vaccination in injecting drug users attending a needle exchange service.
A 2-year stage of change evaluation of dietary fat and fruit and vegetable intake behaviors of cardiac rehabilitation patients.	To track the 2-year movement of cardiac rehabilitation patients through the stages of change for dietary fat reduction and increasing fruit and vegetable intake.
Nurses' role in public education on the risks of skin cancer.	Skin cancer, like other types of cancer, remains a significant health problem worldwide, despite large-scale preventive programmes. However, increased knowledge and understanding can enable nurses in all specialties to make a contribution to promoting healthier lifestyles to reduce the incidence of skin cancer.
Nurse-led interventions contribute to cutting the risks for heart disease.	Studies confirm the value of specialist nursing-led input in preventing patients having further coronary heart disease events. Interventions, targeted at effecting patient lifestyle changes, have been shown to be particularly successful in improving patients' diet and activity levels, reducing the incidence of subsequent events and mortality.
Updating the infection risk reduction hierarchy: preventing transition into injection.	Current approaches to prevention of blood-borne infections in injection drug users include referral to drug abuse treatment, access to sterile syringes, bleach disinfection of injection equipment, and education about not sharing equipment. However, rates of some blood-borne infections (e.g., hepatitis C virus) remain elevated among injection drug users, especially early after initiation into injection drug use. With lower infection rates in noninjectors and transition into injection drug use occurring most commonly among these noninjectors, prevention of transition into injection drug use as an additional step to reduce risk for acquisition and transmission of blood-borne infections merits closer attention.
The content and comprehensiveness of hepatitis C education in methadone maintenance and drug-free treatment units.	Although drug users are at elevated risk for hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, many are uniformed or misinformed about the virus. Drug treatment programs are uniquely situated to provide comprehensive risk-modifying educational programs for decreasing HCV transmission, a strategy advocated in the most recent National Institutes of Health Consensus Development Conference Statement on the Management of Hepatitis C. Given the large proportion of patients that inject drugs in methadone maintenance treatment programs and the high prevalence of HCV among drug injectors, we compared a nationwide sample (N = 246) of methadone maintenance treatment programs and drug-free programs regarding the content and comprehensiveness of HCV education. All of these programs provide HCV education to at least some of their patients. Results indicated that, compared to drug-free programs, methadone maintenance treatment programs cover a significantly greater number of HCV-related topics, and that a significantly greater proportion of the methadone programs cover specific topics (e.g., how to avoid transmitting HCV, the importance of testing for HCV, treatment options if HCV positive). Of special concern is that fewer than three quarters of the drug-free programs address what to do if co-infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and HCV and how to maintain health if HCV positive, and only about half of the drug-free and methadone maintenance treatment programs educate HCV-positive patients about the importance of obtaining vaccinations for hepatitis A and B. Drug treatment programs need to educate patients about the proactive steps these individuals can take to deal with HCV, provide critically needed HCV services, and encourage patients to make full use of these services.
Public funding of US syringe exchange programs.	Although there has been no federal government funding of syringe exchange, there is substantial state and local government funding. We report here on program characteristics associated with receiving state and local government funding. Annual telephone surveys were made of program directors of syringe exchange programs known to the North American Syringe Exchange Network. The number of syringe exchange programs known to this network has increased from 63 in 1994-1995 to 127 in 2000. Approximately 80% of programs participated in each of the surveys. Approximately 50% of programs receive state and local government funding, and this has remained constant from 1994 to 2000. Receiving state and local government funding was associated with larger numbers of syringes exchanged per year and providing more on-site services. Among programs that received state or local government funding, this funding accounted for a mean of 87% of the budget for syringe exchange services. In the absence of federal funding, state and local government support is associated with better syringe exchange performance.
Physical activity and colorectal cancer.	Physical activity has been shown to reduce risk of colon cancer. Some studies have shown site-specific associations while others have not. The inverse association between physical activity and colon cancer is consistent although only 7 of 13 studies that have collected both colon and rectal cancer data in the same manner report reduced risk for rectal cancer; four of these studies detected statistically significant inverse associations. The frequency, duration and intensity of activity are important components of a public health message to reduce risk of colon cancer through performance of physical activity. However, difficulties in estimating the exact amount of activity needed and frequency and intensity of activity result in only crude estimates of dose needed for a protective effect. Much of the literature suggest that more intense activity is needed to reduce colon cancer risk and that somewhere between 3.5 and 4 hours of vigorous activity per week may be needed to optimise protection. Several biological mechanisms have been proposed to explain the association between physical activity and colon cancer; many of these mechanisms also support the observation that intense activities are most protective. Biological mechanisms include: physical activity increasing gut motility; enhancing the immune system; decreasing insulin and insulin-like growth factor levels; decreasing obesity; enhancing free radical scavenger systems; and influencing prostaglandin levels. The evidence taken together provides strong support for lack of physical activity being causally related to colon cancer. It has been estimated that 12-14% of colon cancer could be attributed to lack of frequent involvement in vigorous physical activity.
Do physicians tailor their recommendations for breast cancer risk reduction based on patient's risk?	To investigate how physicians tailor their recommendations for breast cancer prevention and risk reduction.
Non-pharmacological management of type 2 diabetes.	Major studies have demonstrated an association between poor glycaemic control and the development of micro - and macrovascular complications in type 2 diabetes. Optimized metabolic control, including treatment of hyperglycaemia and other risk factors, reduces the risk of complications. Current strategies aiming at achieving the best possible control include a non-pharmacological approach consisting of lifestyle intervention using physical exercise and modification of nutrition intakes in the early stage of type 2 diabetes, or in later stages, combined with pharmacotherapy. Such an approach is also efficient in preventing type 2 diabetes in patients with impaired glucose tolerance. The purpose of this review is to analyse, in a clinical practice perspective, the current recommendations with respect to lifestyle modifications.
Comparison of treatment outcomes between biliary plastic stent placements with and without endoscopic sphincterotomy for inoperable malignant common bile duct obstruction.	Considerable controversy surrounds the adoption of endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) to facilitate the placement of 10F plastic stents (PS) and to reduce the risk of pancreatitis The aim of the study was to assess the possible advantages of ES before PS placement.
Acarbose for the prevention of Type 2 diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease in subjects with impaired glucose tolerance: facts and interpretations concerning the critical analysis of the STOP-NIDDM Trial data.	The STOP-NIDDM Trial has shown that acarbose treatment in subjects with impaired glucose tolerance is associated with a significant risk reduction in the development of diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular complications. Kaiser and Sawicki have accused the investigators of the STOP-NIDDM Trial of major biases in the conduct of the study, of manipulating the data and of conflict of interest. The aim of this paper is to present data and explanations refuting these allegations. In the STOP-NIDDM Trial, 61 subjects were excluded from the efficacy analysis before unblinding for legitimate reasons: failure to satisfy major entry criteria (n=17) and lack of post-randomisation data (n=44). Blinding and randomisation were carried out by an independent biostatistician. Titration of placebo/acarbose is well described in the protocol and in the study design paper. Of the study population, 9.3% had a fasting plasma glucose of > or =7.0 mmol/l at screening and could have been diabetic according to the new diagnostic criteria. However, even if these subjects are excluded, patients having acarbose treatment still saw a significant risk reduction in the development of diabetes (p=0.0027). The changes in weight are consistent in different publications and are related to different times of follow-up and assessment. Weight change does have an effect on the development of diabetes, but acarbose treatment is still effective even after adjusting for this (p=0.0063). The cardiovascular endpoints were a clearly designated assessment in the original protocol, and only those defined in the protocol and ascertained by the independent Cardiovascular Event Adjudication Committee were used in the analysis. Hypertension was defined according to the most recent diagnostic criteria. The STOP-NIDDM Trial results are scientifically sound and credible. The investigators stand strongly behind these results demonstrating that acarbose treatment is associated with a delay in the development of diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular complications in a high-risk population with IGT.
Reducing risk in smokers.	Tobacco smoking is a leading cause of lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. For smokers who want to quit, nicotine replacement therapy and bupropion are frequently recommended. Currently, disagreement surrounds the extent of risk reduction from quitting, the consequences of the change of nicotine replacement therapy to over-the-counter status, and the safety and efficacy of new tobacco products being marketed by tobacco companies. This article reviews the current evidence relevant to these and other developments in smoking interventions and describes the most effective strategies that smokers can use to reduce their risk.
Impact of a cardiac risk reduction program in vulnerable patients hospitalized with coronary artery disease.	To increase the use of guideline-based pharmacotherapy in vulnerable patients (ethnic minorities and the poor) with coronary artery disease (CAD) through a nurse-based quality-improvement program.
Family-focused preventive interventions: evaluating parental risk moderation of substance use trajectories.	Four years of longitudinal data from 373 families participating in a randomized intervention-control clinical trial were used to examine whether intervention effects on adolescent alcohol and tobacco use trajectories were moderated by family risk, as defined by parental social emotional maladjustment. Consistent with earlier outcome evaluations based on analyses of covariance, analyses confirmed that both the Preparing for the Drug Free Years program and the Iowa Strengthening Families Program favorably influenced alcohol use index trajectories across the time frame of the study; only the latter program, however, evidenced positive effects on a tobacco use index. Concerning the primary research question, analyses provided no support for family risk moderation of any intervention effect. Findings indicate the feasibility of developing universal preventive interventions that offer comparable benefits to all families.
Health promotion and cardiovascular health in adult monozygotic twins.	To describe relationships among cardiovascular health indicators and health-promoting behaviors in adult monozygotic (MZ) twins.
Beyond slogans: lessons from Uganda's ABC experience.	Between the late 1980s and mid-1990s, at a time when HIV/AIDS was well on its way toward ravaging Sub-Saharan Africa, Uganda achieved an extraordinary feat: It stopped the spread of HIV/AIDS in its tracks and saw the nation's rate of infection plummet. As word of the "Uganda miracle" spread, journalists, researchers, policymakers and advocates all descended to try to ascertain how it was accomplished.
Trends in prevalence, awareness, treatment and control of hypertension in middle-aged Chinese population]	To analyze the trends in prevalence, awareness, treatment, control of hypertension among middle-aged Chinese.
Cost-effective analysis of preventive treatment on diabetes]	To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of preventive treatment on diabetes, using metformin or acarbose among patients with impaired glucose tolerance.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in hypertensive patients is associated with a reduction in the occurrence of atrial fibrillation.	The objective of this study was to determine the effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition (ACEI) versus long-acting calcium-channel blockade (CCB) on atrial fibrillation (AF) in patients with hypertension.
A, B and C in Uganda: the roles of abstinence, monogamy and condom use in HIV decline.	Uganda is often cited as a role model in the fight against HIV/AIDS because of its success in reducing both prevalence and incidence of HIV infection since the late 1980s. Although an increase in sexual abstinence has been highlighted as a primary cause of the declines, large increases have also been recorded in monogamy and condom use. The extent to which each of these factors actually influenced the overall decline in Uganda's HIV rates has become a highly charged political issue in the United States, leading to restrictions on how US development funding for combatting HIV is allocated. The Alan Guttmacher Institute investigated changes that occurred in abstinence, monogamy and condom use in Uganda in the 1990s, using nationally representative data from Uganda's Demographic and Health Surveys of 1988 (women only), 1995 and 2000 (women and men), and national-level findings from two surveys by the Global Programme on AIDS in 1989 and 1995 (women and men). Reduction of infection risk by lowering numbers or types of partners among people with more than one relationship was not covered. Here we reprint the chapter on "Implications" from the AGI report, a commentary on the lessons that can and cannot be taken from the data, published in a 2003 Guttmacher Report on Public Policy.
Adherence to the AICR cancer prevention recommendations and subsequent morbidity and mortality in the Iowa Women's Health Study cohort.	In 1997, the American Institute for Cancer Research (AICR) published 14 recommendations related to diet for individuals to reduce cancer incidence on a global basis; smoking was also discouraged. We operationalized these into nine recommendations that are particularly relevant to western populations in a cohort of 29,564 women ages 55 to 69 years at baseline in 1986 who had no history of cancer or heart disease. The cohort was followed through 1998 for cancer incidence (n = 4,379), cancer mortality (n = 1,434), cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality (n = 1,124), and total mortality (n = 3,398). The median number (range) of recommendations followed was 4 (0-8), and 33% of the cohort had ever smoked. Women who followed no or one recommendation compared with six to nine recommendations were at an increased risk of cancer incidence [relative risk (RR) 1.35, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.15-1.58] and cancer mortality (RR 1.43, 95% CI 1.11-1.85), but there was no association with CVD mortality (RR 1.06, 95% CI 0.78-1.43). We calculated the population attributable risk (PAR) to estimate the proportion of cancer incidence, cancer mortality, and CVD mortality that theoretically would have been avoidable if the entire cohort had never smoked, had followed six to nine recommendations, or had done both. The PARs for smoking were 11% (95% CI 10-13) for cancer incidence, 21% (95% CI 17-24) for cancer mortality, and 20% (95% CI 16-23) for CVD mortality. The PARs for not following six to nine recommendations were 22% (95% CI 12-30) for cancer incidence, 11% (95% CI -5 to 24) for cancer mortality, and 4% (95% CI -20 to 19) for CVD mortality. When smoking and the operationalized AICR recommendations were combined together, the PARs were 31% (95% CI 19-37) for cancer incidence, 30% (95% CI 15-40) for cancer mortality, and 22% (95% CI 4-36) for CVD mortality. These data suggest that the adherence to the AICR recommendations, independently and in conjunction with not smoking, is likely to have a substantial public health impact on reducing cancer incidence and, to a lesser degree, cancer mortality at the population level.
The effect of cruciferous and leguminous sprouts on genotoxicity, in vitro and in vivo.	Vegetable consumption is associated with a reduced risk of colorectal cancer, which is the second most common cancer after lung/breast cancer within Europe. Some putative protective phytochemicals are found in higher amounts in young sprouts than in mature plants. The effect of an extract of mixed cruciferous and legume sprouts on DNA damage induced by H(2)O(2) was measured in HT29 cells using single cell microgelelectrophoresis (comet). Significant antigenotoxic effect (P < or = 0.05) was observed when HT29 cells were pre-incubated with the extract (100 and 200 microL/mL) for 24 hours and then challenged with H(2)O(2). A parallel design intervention study was carried out on 10 male and 10 female healthy adult volunteers (mean age = 25.5 years) fed 113 g of cruciferous and legume sprouts daily for 14 days. The effect of the supplementation was measured on a range of parameters, including DNA damage in lymphocytes (comet), the activity of various detoxifying enzymes (glutathione S-transferase, glutathione peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase), antioxidant status using the ferric reducing ability of plasma assay, plasma antioxidants (uric acid, ascorbic acid, and alpha-tocopherol), blood lipids, plasma levels of lutein, and lycopene. A significant antigenotoxic effect against H(2)O(2)-induced DNA damage was shown in peripheral blood lymphocytes of volunteers who consumed the supplemented diet when compared with the control diet (P = 0.04). No significant induction of detoxifying enzymes was observed during the study, neither were plasma antioxidant levels or activity altered. The results support the theory that consumption of cruciferous vegetables is linked to a reduced risk of cancer via decreased damage to DNA.
Adverse effects of beta-blocker therapy for patients with heart failure: a quantitative overview of randomized trials.	Beta-blockers substantially improve survival in patients with chronic heart failure (HF) with left ventricular systolic dysfunction, but concerns about cardiovascular adverse effects may deter physicians from prescribing this therapy. We performed an overview of randomized beta-blocker trials in patients with HF to quantify the risks of these adverse effects.
Comprehensive lifestyle modification and blood pressure control: a review of the PREMIER trial.	The PREMIER trial assessed the aggregate effect on blood pressure (BP) of nationally recommended lifestyle modifications in free-living adults with high-normal (stage 1) hypertension. Participants (N=810) were randomized to the advice-only group; the established group (consisting of weight loss, increased physical activity, and reduced sodium and alcohol intake); or the established plus Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet group (consisting of the established interventions in addition to the DASH dietary pattern). The primary outcome was change in systolic BP at 6 months. Net of advice only, mean systolic BP declined by 3.7 mm Hg for members of the established group (p<0.001) and 4.3 mm Hg for the established plus DASH group (p<0.001). The prevalence of hypertension decreased from a baseline of 38% to 17% in the established group (p=0.01) and to 12% in the established plus DASH group (p<0.001) compared with a decrease to 26% in the advice-only group. The PREMIER trial demonstrated that persons with above-optimal BP and stage 1 hypertension can make multiple lifestyle changes leading to better control of BP.
Reducing the risk for distal forearm fracture: preserve bone mass, slow down, and don't fall!	A case-control study of 1,150 female and male distal forearm cases and 2,331 controls of age 45 years and older was undertaken from 1996-2001 in five Northern California Kaiser Permanente Medical Centers. Most information on possible risk factors was obtained by an interviewer-administered questionnaire, supplemented by a few tests of lower extremity neurological function. Previous fractures since 45 years of age, a rough marker of osteoporosis, were associated with an increased risk (adjusted odds ratio [OR] [95% confidence interval] = 1.48 [1.20-1.84 ] per previous fracture). Several factors thought to protect against low bone mass were associated with a reduced risk, including current use of menopausal hormone therapy (adjusted OR = 0.60 [0.49-0.74]), ever used thiazide diuretics or water pills for at least 1 year (adjusted OR = 0.79 [0.64-0.97]), high body mass index (weight in kg/height in m2) (adjusted OR = 0.96 [0.89-1.04] per 5 unit increase), and high dietary calcium intake (adjusted OR = 0.88 [0.75-1.03] per 500 mg/day). Falls in the past year and conditions associated with falling, such as epilepsy and/or use of seizure medication (adjusted OR = 2.07 [1.35-3.17]) and a history of practitioner-diagnosed depression (adjusted OR = 1.40 [1.13-1.73]), were associated with increased risks. Having difficulty performing physical functions and all lower-extremity problems measured in this study were associated with reduced risks. The results from this and other studies indicate that distal forearm fractures tend to occur in people with low bone mass who are otherwise in relatively good health and are physically active, but who are somewhat prone to falling (particularly on an outstretched hand), and whose movements are not slowed by lower extremity problems and other debilities. Thus, measures to decrease fall frequency and to slow down the pace of relatively healthy people with low bone mass should lead to a lower frequency of distal forearm fracture.
Sapporo Fitness Club Trial (SFCT)--design, recruitment and implementation of a randomized controlled trial to test the efficacy of exercise at a fitness club for the reduction of cardiovascular risk factor--.	The annual health check followed by lifestyle recommendations has long been the standard national strategy to improve cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors in Japan. Exercise at fitness clubs, now widely accessible in major cities, has a novel appeal as a strategy with the additive effect of CVD risk reduction. The Sapporo Fitness Club Trial (SFCT) is a randomized controlled trial to compare the efficacy of the national standard alone (control) with the standard plus exercise at a fitness club (intervention) for the reduction of CVD risk factors.
Research navigating the course of clinical practice in diabetes.	Three of the four largest and, arguably, most important long-term clinical trials focusing on diabetes in the past 2 decades have had medical nutrition therapy (MNT) as a major element of their experimental therapies: the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial and its follow-up study the Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications Study, the Diabetes Prevention Program, and the Look AHEAD (Action for Health in Diabetes) study. The important features of these studies, their major results, and implications for current and future practice of MNT in the prevention and treatment of diabetes are delineated. The evidence suggests that dietetics professionals have an increasingly important role in the early initiation of MNT in the treatment and prevention of diabetes and in establishing the long-term relationships required to shape behavior and sustain the lifestyle habits that translate into significant reductions in the incidence of diabetes-related health outcomes and improved cost-effectiveness over time.
Advice that includes food sources of unsaturated fat supports future risk management of gestational diabetes mellitus.	Abstract Women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) have a greater risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) and heart disease than pregnant women without GDM. Advice given during the GDM pregnancy provides an opportunity to develop protective dietary patterns for the long-term management of this risk. Dietary guidelines for the prevention and management of type 2 DM support the inclusion of unsaturated fats, but food advice needs to target this outcome. The aim of this study was to compare the dietary intakes of women with GDM given general low-fat advice (control group) to women with GDM given the same advice with additional targets for food sources of unsaturated fats (intervention group). After approximately 6 weeks, the intervention group reported more ideal dietary fatty acid intakes than the control group, with polyunsaturated:saturated fat ratios of 1:1 and 0.4:1, respectively ( P < .001), assessed using repeated measures analysis of variance. These results confirm the need to include food sources of unsaturated fats in advice strategies to assure optimal protective eating habits in this at-risk group.
A process to address disparities in rates of sudden infant death syndrome.	Fetal and Infant Mortality Review (FIMR) is a continuous quality improvement program that leads to improvements in services and resources for families and, ultimately, a decrease in infant mortality. It is an action-oriented process that combines medical data with the mother's report of experiences during the life and death of her infant. The FIMR has proven to be especially important in addressing community issues associated with infant deaths related to sudden infant death syndrome.
Maternal recreational physical activity is associated with plasma leptin concentrations in early pregnancy.	A limited amount of literature suggests that plasma leptin concentrations are reduced with habitual physical activity in men and non-pregnant women. We investigated the relationship between maternal physical activity and plasma leptin during early pregnancy.
Model study of AREDS antioxidant supplementation of AMD compared to Visudyne: a dominant strategy?	In Ontario, Canada, in a cohort of all people initially aged 50-54 years, modeling whether the Age-Related Eye Disease Study (AREDS) antioxidant supplementation for stage 3 and 4 AMD would decrease the costs of photodynamic treatment with Visudyne.
Group-based HIV risk reduction intervention for adolescent girls: evidence of feasibility and efficacy.	The purposes of this pilot study were (a) to assess the feasibility of a community-based, small group HIV risk reduction intervention with adolescent girls, and (b) to obtain preliminary evidence of the efficacy of this theoretically-guided intervention using a controlled design. The feasibility of the intervention was demonstrated by successfully implementing it with 33 sexually-active, single girls. Preliminary evidence of the efficacy of the intervention was obtained using a randomized trial with 62 sexually-active, single girls. Data obtained at a 3-month follow-up assessment showed that girls who received the HIV-related intervention improved their HIV-related knowledge and enhanced their motivation for risk reduction compared to girls who received a control (health promotion) intervention. Effect sizes suggest that the HIV intervention also reduced several risk behaviors (e.g., vaginal sex without a condom, giving oral sex, and alcohol and drug use before sex). Challenges to implementation and suggestions for intervention enhancement are discussed.
Provision of HIV treatment in HIV preventive vaccine trials: a developing country perspective.	HIV treatment for participants who become infected during HIV vaccine trials has been the focus of ethical controversy. The obligations of sponsors to ensure that participants have access to antiretrovirals have been a particular focus of this debate. This paper presents three arguments that have been made in this regard, and some of their limitations, in anticipation of HIV vaccine trials in South Africa. The first argument is that HIV risk behaviour increases in such trials, and HIV infection can be viewed as a research-related injury, justifying sponsor provision of treatment on grounds of compensation for harm. We conclude that risk-behaviour studies to date do not show general increases in risk behaviour that could constitute the basis for a general obligation. Participation may well adversely impact on risk behaviour for some individuals, and conceivably this could be demonstrated. This argument may, therefore, have merit at the individual level; however, it seems a weak platform from which to argue that sponsors should treat all HIV infections acquired during trials. The second argument is that treatment should be provided based on distributive justice. We conclude that traditional concepts of "distributive justice" in research appear limited in justifying obligations of sponsors to ensure access to antiretrovirals. Further, using research initiatives to reduce global health care inequities is controversial, and even proponents may disagree about the fairest use of finite resources. The third argument is that sponsors should ensure antiretroviral access on grounds of beneficence; namely, the maxim that if one can do something beneficial without sacrificing anything of comparable significance, it ought to be done. Thus, sponsors should provide more interventions than those minimally required to conduct the research. However, beneficence may demand levels of altruism that exceeds what is reasonable. While the latter arguments may provide stronger justifications than the first, it is difficult to use these arguments to establish that sponsor provision of antiretrovirals to infected individuals is obligatory.
Storage of poisonous substances and firearms in homes with young children visitors and older adults.	Most unintentional childhood poisonings and firearm injuries occur in residential environments. Therefore, a preventive strategy includes limiting children's access to poisons and firearms through safe storage. This study examines storage of poisons and firearms among households with older adults, and households where young children reside compared to those where they visit only.
Comparison of the Atkins, Ornish, Weight Watchers, and Zone diets for weight loss and heart disease risk reduction: a randomized trial.	The scarcity of data addressing the health effects of popular diets is an important public health concern, especially since patients and physicians are interested in using popular diets as individualized eating strategies for disease prevention.
Should physicians be allowed to use alcohol while on call?	Although physician alcohol use that leads to impairment has been extensively discussed, few statements address the issue of alcohol use of physicians who are on call. In this paper the authors review recent information on physicians' perceptions of alcohol use by themselves and their colleagues while on call. It is argued that conflicts in physicians' perceptions are due to the fact that the larger society has not addressed the question of whether drinking on call is public or private behaviour. The authors argue that when medicine is understood as a practice defined partly in terms of standards of excellence, the present approach of the American Medical Association to prohibit practicing medicine under the influence of alcohol requires a prohibition of drinking alcohol while on call, unless studies determine a clear threshold for drinking alcohol without placing patients at risk.
Behavior and cancer prevention.	This paper reviews research on the effects of behavioral risk factors on cancer incidence, as well as behavioral interventions for cancer prevention. Risk factors discussed here--tobacco use, diet, physical activity, and obesity/energy balance--are all linked with cancer etiology, and effective behavioral interventions have been developed in all of these areas. The most effective interventions appear to incorporate various components; for example, including individual as well as family activities, and involving multiple community organizations in behavior-changing activities. Behavioral theories have guided the design of these interventions, providing support that certain influences on behavior, such as self-efficacy, problem-solving skills, and social support, are important regardless of the specific behavioral target. As illustrated by the recent lowered lung cancer incidence and mortality rates for men and women, behavior change is possible and effective in cancer prevention. Clinical guidelines have been established for behavioral aspects of treatments for smoking cessation, dietary guideline compliance, physical activity, and obesity reduction, and new tools for dissemination of effective intervention materials will be helpful in increasing their use. Documenting the cost-effectiveness of behavioral interventions, using new technology interventions, and building on translational research to tailor interventions to individuals offer considerable promise for the future.
Non-compliance in patients with heart failure; how can we manage it?	Because of the improvement of the pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment in heart failure (HF) patients, the HF related therapeutic regimen is becoming more complicated. Non-compliance with this regimen can result in worsening HF symptoms, sometimes leading to hospitalisation.
Treating individuals 3: from subgroups to individuals: general principles and the example of carotid endarterectomy.	Clinicians often have to make treatment decisions based on the likelihood that an individual patient will benefit. In this article we consider the relevance of relative and absolute risk reductions, and draw attention to the importance of expressing the results of trials and subgroup analyses in terms of absolute risk. We describe the limitations of univariate subgroup analysis in situations in which there are several determinants of treatment effect, and review the potential for targeting treatments with risk models, especially when benefit is probably going to be dependent on the absolute risk of adverse outcomes with or without treatment. The ability to systematically take into account the characteristics of an individual patient and their interactions, to consider the risks and benefits of interventions separately if needed, and to provide patients with personalised estimates of their likelihood of benefit is shown using the example of endarterectomy for symptomatic carotid stenosis.
Measuring success in a pesticide risk reduction program among migrant farmworkers in Colorado.	Farmworkers in the US largely consist of young undocumented Hispanics with a median education of 6 years and limited English skills. The High Plains Intermountain Center for Agricultural Health and Safety bilingual pesticide risk reduction program, which complied with the Worker Protection Standard for migrant farmworkers was evaluated.
The impact of body mass index on pulse pressure in obesity.	Pulse pressure, a marker of arterial vascular properties, has been linked to cardiovascular diseases and complications. This study examined the impact of excess body mass and cardiovascular disease risk factors on pulse pressure (PP).
Promoting physical activity in Australian general practices: a randomised trial of health promotion advice versus hypertension management.	A randomised controlled trial was conducted to determine if physicians' advice to promote physical activity to patients was more effective if the advice was tailored to the management of hypertension, compared with more general health promotion advice. Participants included inactive 40- to 70-year-old patients visiting the physicians' during study recruitment period. Physicians provided verbal physical activity advice and written materials, both tailored to either general health promotion messages or specifically as a means for treating or managing hypertension. Seventy-five physicians and 98% (767/780) of screened eligible patients participated in the study. Differences between intervention and control groups self-reported physical activity were assessed over 6 months. Follow-up response rates were 92 and 84% at the 2- and 6-month assessments. There were no consistent, significant differences between groups at the 2- or 6-month assessments. Thus, neither intervention strategy resulted in significant changes in patients self-reported physical activity, regardless of the whether the advice was tailored to hypertension management or general health promotion advice.
Prophylactic mastectomy: indications, options, and reconstructive alternatives.	Prophylactic mastectomy continues to be a controversial procedure as a preventive tool against breast cancer. Recent research and other scientific advances, however, have refocused attention on better risk estimation, evidence of efficacy, and improvements in reconstruction. The recently discovered genetic markers BRCA1 and BRCA2 have become increasingly important in determining risk; a BRCA1-positive patient's risk of developing breast cancer by the age of 65 is estimated at 50 percent to 80 percent. BRCA1- and BRCA2-positive breast cancers also tend to be higher grade and occur in younger women (making mammography less effective). Genetically linked breast cancers are usually estrogen receptor negative, making them less susceptible to chemoprevention. Various predictive models and recommendations by experts in the field are also available for today's clinicians to ascertain who should be genetically tested. The benefit of bilateral prophylactic mastectomy, although difficult to estimate, can be evaluated by looking at the incidence of breast cancer in studies of patients who have previously undergone prophylactic mastectomy. The estimated risk reduction from these studies is 80 percent to 95 percent. Similarly, life expectancy is believed to be increased from 2.9 to 5.3 years. The psychological benefits include a 70 percent rate of satisfaction and a decrease in emotional concern over developing breast cancer by 74 percent of women who underwent prophylactic mastectomy. Although reconstruction results may vary, most patients have been very satisfied and some may achieve cosmetic results that are better than their preoperative situation. Patient selection for specific types of reconstruction after prophylactic mastectomy and the decision to proceed should be based on surgical risk and the likelihood of a good outcome. The choice of mastectomy incision should consider the size of the breast, preexisting scars, patient risk factors, and the planned method and goal of reconstruction. The authors propose certain guidelines based on degree of ptosis and cup size when planning prophylactic mastectomies with reconstruction. In certain cases, a nipple-sparing mastectomy may provide cosmetic advantages that could outweigh the additional oncologic risk.
Vascular risk management through nurse-led self-management programs.	In current clinical practice, adequate cardiovascular risk reduction is difficult to achieve. Treatment is primarily focused on clinical vascular disease and not on long-term risk reduction. Pertinent to success in vascular risk reduction are proper medication use, weight control, healthy food choices, smoking cessation, and physical exercise. Atherosclerotic vascular disease and its risk constitute a chronic condition, which poses specific requirements on affected patients and caregivers who should be aware of the chronicity. In patients with vascular disease, there is lack of awareness of their chronic condition because of the invisibility of most risk factors. In other patient groups with chronic illness, self-management programs were successful in achieving behavioral change. This strategy can also be useful for patients with vascular disease to adapt and adhere to an improved lifestyle. Self-management refers to the individual's ability to manage both physical and psychosocial consequences including lifestyle changes inherent to living with a chronic condition. Interventions that promote self-management are based on enhancing self-efficacy. In self-management, attention can be given to what is important and motivational to the individual patient. In this article the challenge of nursing care promoting self-management for patients with vascular risk and how this care can be applied will be explained. Nurses can play a central role in vascular risk management with a self-management approach for patients with chronic vascular disease. In vascular prevention clinics, nursing care can be delivered that includes medical treatment of vascular risks (hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, and hyperhomocystinemia) and counseling on promoting self-management (changes in diet, body weight, smoking habits, and level of exercise). Nursing interventions based on self-management promotion can provide a new and promising approach to actually achieve vascular risk reduction.
Cost effectiveness of treating low HDL-cholesterol in the primary prevention of coronary heart disease.	A low serum level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol is an independent risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD). Fibrates, particularly gemfibrozil, have been shown to raise HDL-cholesterol levels and reduce the incidence of CHD. The literature on fibrate cost effectiveness is quite limited.
A description of a peer-run supervised injection site for injection drug users.	Owing to the ongoing health crisis among injection drug users in Vancouver, Canada, there have been repeated calls for the establishment of supervised injection sites (SIS) since the early 1990s. In April 2003, a group of advocates and drug users opened an unsanctioned SIS in Vancouver's Downtown Eastside. The "327 SIS" operated for 184 days. During the operation of the SIS, volunteers supervised over 3,000 injections by a high-risk injection drug using population. The SIS provided a sterile environment for injection drug use without measured negative consequences and demonstrated the feasibility of a peer-driven low-threshold SIS.
Cardiac rehabilitation reduces the rate of major adverse cardiac events after percutaneous coronary intervention.	Despite multiple publications on effects of rehabilitation in cardiac patients, rehabilitation is not fully known to be of value in post-percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) patients.
Depression therapy with injection drug users: results of a pilot study.	The purpose of this article is to report the methods, results, and conclusions of a pilot study developed to test a depression therapy component to reduce depressive symptoms in injection drug users. The pilot study was conducted to determine if the depression therapy component should be added as an adjunct to a social-network HIV risk-reduction intervention. The major conclusion from our pilot study was that depression therapy appears to be effective in reducing depressive symptoms in injection drug users and should be tested to improve treatment outcome of depressed drug users participating in HIV risk-reduction interventions.
A procedural model for planning and evaluating behavioral interventions.	A model for planning, implementing and evaluating health behavior change strategies is proposed. Variables are presented which can be used in the model or serve as examples for how the model is utilized once a theory of health behavior is adopted.
Behavioral interventions and the role of television in the growing epidemic of adolescent obesity--data from the 2001 Youth Risk Behavioral Survey.	To test television exposure's contribution to overweight (BMI > 95th percentile /age) status in 11.3% of 2001 YRBS respondents, when controlling for moderate/vigorous activity, and eating habits.
Trends of HIV risk behaviors in a cohort of injecting drug users and their sex partners in Miami, Florida, 1988-1998.	A cohort of 111 injection drug users (IDUs) and their sex partners was assessed in 1988 concerning risk behaviors for HIV and knowledge of HIV/AIDS. Ten years later, in 1998, the cohort was reassessed using the same instrument. All who were HIV negative in 1988 were retested by blood draw for antibodies to HIV. A paired analysis was utilized to determine individual changes in risk behaviors for three serostatus groups--those who remained HIV negative (long-term HIV negatives), seroconverters, and those positive in 1988 (long-term HIV positives). Incidence was twice as high for sex partners (37.5%) as for IDUs (18.0%). Drug and needle use risk behaviors, except crack use, showed decreases; sexual risk behaviors were less amenable to change. Knowledge significantly increased among the long-term HIV negatives and seroconverters but not among those HIV positive in 1988. This analysis demonstrates the need for continued intervention among IDUs and their sex partners.
Motivating smoking reductions by framing health information as safer smoking tips.	Explored the hypothesis that framing health information as safer smoking tips might motivate change in cigarette smokers. Daily smokers were randomly assigned to a control condition or to an intervention condition in which respondents were asked if they knew about a range of different safer smoking tips. Respondents (43 daily smokers, 18 years or older, 58% male) who received safer smoking tips reported a small reduction in the number of cigarettes smoked (p=.05) by the 3-month follow-up as compared to respondents in the control condition. This pilot result is encouraging but requires replication before considering the value of including safer smoking tips in health messages for smokers in the general population.
A susceptible-infected epidemic model with voluntary vaccinations.	An susceptible-infected epidemic model with endogenous behavioral changes is presented to analyze the impact of a prophylactic vaccine on disease prevalence. It is shown that, with voluntary vaccination, whether an endemic equilibrium exists or not does not depend on vaccine efficacy or the distribution of agent-types. Although an endemic equilibrium is unique in the absence of a vaccine, the availability of a vaccine can lead to multiple endemic equilibria that differ in disease prevalence and vaccine coverage. Depending on the distribution of agent-types, the introduction of a vaccine or, if one is available, a subsidy for vaccination can increase disease prevalence by inducing more risky behavior.
Cessation among smokers of "light" cigarettes: results from the 2000 national health interview survey.	A large proportion of smokers erroneously believe that low-nicotine/low-tar cigarettes, also called "light cigarettes" or "lights," reduce health risks and are a rational alternative to smoking cessation. However, the availability of light cigarettes may deter smoking cessation.
Condomless sex: gay men, barebacking, and harm reduction.	Social science research as well as a rise in sexually transmitted diseases and new HIV infections among men who have sex with men point to increasing numbers of gay men engaging in unprotected anal intercourse without condoms, a practice called "barebacking". There is some evidence that barebacking is linked to the rise of crystal methamphetamine use (by men of all races and socioeconomic groups) and surfing the Internet to locate sex partners, although these are not the only factors contributing to this phenomenon. This article summarizes current research findings on sexual risk taking among gay men, discusses psychosocial issues that contribute to barebacking, and suggests a harm-reduction approach to clinical work with gay men who bareback as an effective method of addressing the behavior.
A contemporary approach to peripheral arterial disease.	Peripheral arterial disease is often overlooked by primary care providers because early physical findings are subtle and patients may not complain of symptoms until it is in its advanced stages.
Plasma homocysteine concentrations in young individuals at increased risk of type 2 diabetes are associated with subtle differences in glomerular filtration rate but not with insulin resistance.	Plasma homocysteine levels are elevated in individuals with type 2 diabetes contributing to the increased cardiovascular risk of these patients. As insulin resistance is a key feature in type 2 diabetic patients, hyperhomocysteinemia might be a consequence of insulin resistance. We studied this hypothesis in 839 individuals(male: 302, female: 537, mean age: 37.5 years) with a higher prevalence of insulin resistance (positive family history of type 2 diabetes, history of gestational diabetes, overweight). Subjects with overt type 2 diabetes or known kidney disease were excluded from the study. Mean plasma homocysteine concentration was 8.9 micromol/l (95% RCI 4.8-14.9). Adjusted for age and sex we could not find a significant correlation between homocysteine levels and BMI, insulin levels, or the insulin sensitivity-index (r = 0.35; p = 0.48). Furthermore, after a successful lifestyle intervention resulting in a significant decrease in BMI, body fat content and improved insulin sensitivity (p < 0.0001 each) no differences in homocysteine concentrations could be achieved. However,in the cross-sectional analysis we found a significant and independent, negative correlation between glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and homocysteine levels (r = -0.37; p < 0.0001). In conclusion, our study did not reveal a significant association between levels of homocysteine and insulin resistance in a population with an increased risk for type 2 diabetes. However, plasma homocysteine levels were related to subtle differences in kidney function at this early stage.
Predictors of health promotion behavior in women without prior history of coronary heart disease.	The purpose of this study was to determine health promotion behavior (HPB) and the best predictors of HPB in women without prior history of coronary heart disease (CHD). The sample included 119 women aged between 35 and 60 years who had no prior CHD history. The women were asked to complete a self-administered survey regarding their demographic data, personal CHD risk factors, HPB, CHD knowledge, and perceived benefits and barriers to CHD risk factor modification. The women in this study did not practice HPB regularly and had low CHD knowledge levels, a high perception level of benefits, and a moderate level of perceived barriers to CHD risk modification. Backward multiple regression analysis demonstrated that smoking history, family history of CHD, CHD knowledge levels, and perceived barriers to CHD risk modification were the best predictors of HPB in women without CHD. Women with fewer perceived barriers to CHD risk modification, higher CHD knowledge levels, and no smoking history or family history of CHD were more likely to practice HPB.
De minimus non curat lex--virtual thresholds for cancer initiation by tobacco specific nitrosamines--prospects for harm reduction by smokeless tobacco.	Whereas the impact of tobacco specific nitrosamines in smokers is obscured by the presence of numerous other carcinogens and promoters, for smokeless tobacco virtually all the carcinogenic potential is associated with 4-(nitrosomethylamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) and N'-nitrosonornicotine (NNN). In some countries exposure to smokeless tobacco with extremely high nitrosamine concentrations have been found to induce cancers in the head-neck region, whereas three recent large epidemiological studies failed to detect any such risk with respect to Swedish low-nitrosamine snuff. This review deals with quantitative aspects of DNA adduct formation from NNN and NNK in relation to the background levels ubiquitously found in healthy humans without known exposures to either tobacco or alkylating agents. The lack of significant increases of pro-mutagenic O6-methylations and DNA pyridyloxobutylations seen in smokers, as well as the negative outcome of the Swedish epidemiological studies, can be expected on basis of extrapolation of the dose response relationships found in rodents to actual exposures to NNK and NNN in Swedish snuff or from smoking. Sweden has the lowest prevalence of male smokers and smoking related diseases in the Western World, which has been ascribed to the fact that more than 20% of the grown up male population uses snuff. Smokeless tobacco represents an inexpensive and effective alternative to nicotine delivering products like nicotine patch, spray or gum. Considering that all other tobacco products are freely marketed, the ban on low-nitrosamine snuff in all countries in EU except Sweden is difficult to defend on either medical or ethical grounds.
Anxiety Sensitivity Amelioration Training (ASAT): a longitudinal primary prevention program targeting cognitive vulnerability.	Fear of arousal symptoms, often referred to as anxiety sensitivity (AS) appears to be associated with risk for anxiety pathology and other Axis I conditions. Findings from a longitudinal prevention program targeting AS are reported. Participants (n=404) scoring high on the Anxiety Sensitivity Index (ASI) were randomly assigned to receive a brief intervention designed to reduce AS (Anxiety Sensitivity Amelioration Training (ASAT)) or a control condition. Participants were followed for up to 24 months. Findings indicate that ASAT produced greater reductions in ASI levels compared with the control condition. Moreover, reductions were specific to anxiety sensitivity relative to related cognitive risk factors for anxiety. ASAT also produced decreased subjective fear responding to a 20% CO(2) challenge delivered postintervention. Data from the follow-up period show a lower incidence of Axis I diagnoses in the treated condition though the overall group difference was not statistically different at all follow-up intervals. Overall, findings are promising for the preventative efficacy of a brief, computer-based intervention designed to decrease anxiety sensitivity.
The effect of workload on infection risk in critically ill patients.	There is growing evidence that low nurse staffing jeopardizes quality of patient care. The objective of the study was to determine whether low staffing level increases the infection risk in critical care.
Sexual risk behavior among HIV-positive men who have sex with men: a literature review.	To review research on sexual risk behavior among HIV-positive men who have sex with men (MSM) after the year 2000.
Single-session motivational enhancement counseling to support change toward reduction of HIV transmission by HIV positive persons.	Given the enormous successes in treating HIV disease with antiretroviral therapies, there is a burgeoning population of healthy, sexually active HIV+ men and women. Because HIV prevention counseling has focused traditionally on persons at risk of becoming infected, there is an urgent mandate to explore ways to engage HIV+ persons in transmission risk reduction counseling. Using two case examples, this article presents an overview of motivational interviewing in a single counseling session as a promising treatment for addressing ambivalence about safer sex with HIV+ persons.
Mortality versus survival graphs: improving temporal consistency in perceptions of treatment effectiveness.	Previous research has demonstrated that people perceive treatments as less effective when survival graphs show fewer years of data versus more data. We tested whether using mortality graphs would reduce this temporal inconsistency bias.
Explaining recent declines in adolescent pregnancy in the United States: the contribution of abstinence and improved contraceptive use.	We explored the relative contributions of declining sexual activity and improved contraceptive use to the recent decline in adolescent pregnancy rates in the United States.
Best-evidence interventions: findings from a systematic review of HIV behavioral interventions for US populations at high risk, 2000-2004.	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's HIV/AIDS Prevention Research Synthesis Team conducted a systematic review of US-based HIV behavioral intervention research literature from 2000 through 2004 to identify interventions demonstrating best evidence of efficacy for reducing HIV risk.
Multilevel community-based intervention to increase access to sterile syringes among injection drug users through pharmacy sales in New York City.	Research has indicated that there is minimal use of pharmacies among injection drug users (IDUs) in specific neighborhoods and among Black and Hispanic IDUs. We developed a community-based participatory research partnership to determine whether a multilevel intervention would increase sterile syringe access through a new policy allowing nonprescription syringe sales in pharmacies.
Depressive symptoms and risk of stroke: the Framingham Study.	Emerging evidence raises the possibility of an association between depression and stroke risk. This study sought to examine whether depressive symptoms are associated with an increased risk of cerebrovascular events in a community-based sample.
Criminality among female drug users following an HIV risk-reduction intervention.	The main objectives of this article are to determine the prevalence of criminality among a sample of female African American drug users and to examine change in criminality over time, including the correlates associated with this change. Data were collected from 336 adult women who participated in an HIV risk-reduction intervention focused on the context of the women's daily life. Face-to-face structured interviews were conducted at baseline, prior to enrolling in the intervention, and at follow-up, 6 months after completion of the intervention. Bivariate and correlated multivariate methods were utilized to examine changes in criminality and other behaviors over time. Both violent and nonviolent criminality declined significantly between baseline and follow-up assessments. Of the correlates considered, drug-using characteristics and victimization played the greatest role in explaining the decrease in criminality. Low self-control and depressive symptoms also contributed to the reduction in criminality. The findings suggest the importance of considering individual characteristics that may influence the women's criminal behavior as well as the impact of their routine activities.
Developing the stage of change approach for the reduction of work-related musculoskeletal disorders.	Musculoskeletal disorders remain the most prevalent form of occupational ill health, prompting examination of why attempts to manage the problem have been less successful than perhaps hoped. With a view to improving the efficacy of such interventions, this study examined the applicability of the stage of change approach to the workplace. Tools were developed to assess individual and organizational stage of change towards reducing the risks of musculoskeletal disorders. The tools were tested in a range of occupational sectors, and demonstrated high levels of validity and reliability. Implications for the application of the model in the workplace for improving intervention effectiveness are discussed.
What does the population attributable fraction mean?	Recent controversy over the disagreement of population attributable fraction estimates for the obesity-total mortality relation has made the concept of attributable fraction visible in both scientific and popular news. Most of the attention in writings on the attributable fraction has focused on technical matters of estimation and on ensuring a causal relationship between exposure and outcome. Yet some of the most illuminating questions about the attributable fraction have to do with another causal question and how the measure is to be interpreted in light of the answer to this question: What interventions are available to cause the assumed reduction in risk among the exposed and the consequent estimated reduction in disease burden? In this paper, I discuss the limitations to the common interpretations of the attributable fraction and argue that these limitations cannot be overcome merely by better statistical modeling or by use of better data sets. They must be addressed through discussion of specific interventions and the hypothesized causal consequences of such specified interventions.
Intervention implementation research: an exploratory study of reduction strategies for occupational contact dermatitis in the printing industry.	Occupational dermatitis is a problem in the printing industry but can be avoided through adequate protective measures. Research into intervention implementation is fundamental to the success of a formal intervention effectiveness trial.
The acceptability of physical activity programming within a smoking cessation service for individuals with severe mental illness.	There is a high prevalence of smoking and physical inactivity among individuals with severe mental illness (SMI). The current study assessed the acceptability of introducing physical activity, including perceived advantages and disadvantages, as an adjunct to a smoking cessation service within this population.
Current guidelines and standards of practice for restless legs syndrome.	Algorithms for treatment of restless legs syndrome (RLS) include both nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic therapy. Patients with RLS are divided into 3 groups: (1) those with intermittent RLS symptoms; (2) those with daily RLS symptoms; and (3) those whose symptoms are refractory to standard treatments. Many patients do not require medication, and symptoms often can be relieved with good sleep hygiene and avoidance of medications and factors that provoke symptoms. Recent large-scale clinical trials have proved the efficacy of therapy for RLS when it is required. Several classes of medications are helpful, but dopaminergic therapy appears to be most effective and relieves symptoms rapidly. The first step in managing RLS is to ensure that there is an adequate diagnosis; this involves discriminating RLS from other conditions that may share a number of features. Finally, it is important to tailor treatment to the needs of each individual patient.
UK smokers' and ex-smokers' reactions to cigarettes promising reduced risk.	This study evaluated the impact of exposure to information about a novel cigarette claiming to reduce exposure to tobacco toxins ('potential reduced exposure product' cigarette or PREP-C) on smokers' and ex-smokers' perceptions of PREP-C, on quit interest among smokers and on interest in resuming smoking among ex-smokers.
Co-located substance use treatment and HIV prevention and primary care services, New York State, 1990-2002: a model for effective service delivery to a high-risk population.	The New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH) AIDS Institute (AI) began an initiative in 1990 in collaboration with the Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services (OASAS) to colocate HIV prevention and clinical services at drug treatment clinics. In 1990, the initiative began funding drug treatment programs to provide HIV counseling, testing, and prevention services. HIV primary care was added the following year. Program implementation and development are described. An analysis is included of HIV counseling and testing data for the period 1990-2002 and quality of care data for five standardized quality measures with comparisons to data from other clinical settings. In the first 13 years of the initiative 168,340 HIV-antibody tests were conducted including 52,562 tests of injection drug users (IDUs) identifying 14,612 HIV-infected persons; the seroprevalence was 8.68%. By the end of 2000, the HIV primary care caseload peaked at 3,815 patients. Quality of primary medical care services among participating drug treatment programs has consistently matched or exceeded that provided in more conventional health care settings such as the hospitals and community health centers that were used as a basis for comparison. Colocating HIV primary care within substance use treatment is an effective strategy for providing accessible high-quality HIV prevention and primary care services.
Complex dietary measures and pharmacotherapy for metabolic syndrome]	Metabolic syndrome is characterized by a group of risk factors (obesity, glucose metabolism disorders, dyslipidemia and hypertension) which appear to be caused by obesity related mechanisms of cellular metabolism and the systemic energy balance. A fibre poor diet rich in fat combined with lack of physical activity are important causative factors. A suitable change in diet combined with regular physical exercise and a moderate weight loss of about 5% leads to a massive reduction in the consequential disease diabetes type 2 by 60% in pre-diabetics and reduces the risk factors for metabolic syndrome. Pharmacological therapies using metformin or acarbose were about half as effective in reducing new cases of diabetes, while thiazolidinedione also led to a 60% reduction in new diabetes cases in pre-diabetics in spite of a weight increase. A sensible and realizable change in lifestyle provides a highly efficient therapy of metabolic syndrome, in addition to effective pharmacological options.
Using technology to enhance prevention services for children in primary care.	Primary care is the principal setting for implementation of prevention services for children and their families. However, aspects of primary care practice and lack of patient adherence to therapeutic regimens that ultimately lead to lifestyle and behavior changes are barriers to the delivery of prevention services. The authors of this paper present descriptive information about how a web-based computer application is being used to assist physicians in a major medical center overcome some of these impediments. This information is presented in the hopes of generating discussion about the utility of computer based support for prevention services in primary care settings. Additional steps to optimize the care of patients are also described.
Willingness to pay for road safety and estimates of the risk of death: evidence from a Swedish contingent valuation study.	We examine how WTP for a reduction in road-mortality risk varies with different individual characteristics and how subjective mortality-risk estimates differ from objective (statistical) mortality-risk values. Using data from a Swedish contingent valuation study, we find some support that WTP declines with age and background risk, but we find no support that WTP varies with health status. Further, we find that respondents underassess their own mortality risks, both road- and total-mortality risks, compared to the objective risk measures for Sweden at the time of the survey.
Lifetime physical activity and the risk of breast cancer: a case-control study.	The association between breast cancer and lifetime histories of physical activity was studied to determine whether exercise may reduce development of this cancer.
Risk of diabetes in a real-world setting among patients initiating antihypertensive therapy with valsartan or amlodipine.	In the Valsartan Antihypertensive Long-Term Use Evaluation (VALUE) trial, the risk of new-onset diabetes was reported to be 23% lower among patients initiating therapy with valsartan versus amlodipine. The objective of our study was to examine whether this finding is generalizable to 'real-world' clinical practice. A retrospective cohort design and a large US health insurance database were employed for analyses. Study subjects included all hypertensive patients, aged >or=35 years, who were free from diabetes and who initiated treatment with valsartan (n=9999) or amlodipine (n=18 698) between January 1999 and March 2005. Unadjusted absolute risks of diabetes were 21.4 (95% confidence interval (CI) 18.9-24.3) and 26.3 (95% CI 24.3-28.3) per 1000 patient-years for valsartan and amlodipine, respectively; the corresponding relative risk (RR) for valsartan was 0.82 (95% CI 0.70-0.94). Multivariate analyses - controlling for age, sex, presence of hypercholesterolemia, cardiovascular disease and kidney disease, and pretreatment medical care expenditures - yielded similar results (RR=0.79, 95% CI 0.68-0.92). Our study thus corroborates the finding from VALUE that diabetes risk is lower for patients who receive valsartan versus amlodipine, and extends this finding to a 'real-world' setting.
Improving access to comprehensive injury risk assessment and risk factor reduction in older adult populations.	Preventing injuries in older populations (aged 50-86 years) is more complex than in younger populations because of frailty, comorbidities, polypharmacy, and physical and cognitive functional limitations. To improve accessibility and delivery of comprehensive, focused injury prevention, we developed a model incorporating applicable features of our national children's program with additional elements to address challenges of older populations. The older adult injury prevention model addresses gaps in prevention by improving access to risk factor screening, safety devices, education, counseling, medical care, and referrals.
Addressing the challenges and opportunities for today's youth: toward an integrative model and its implications for research and intervention.	This article calls for, and proposes some tenets of, model building in adolescent psychosocial development. Specifically, it is suggested that there is a need for a model that draws from the risk-protection approach, from which many prevention science approaches are drawn, and the applied developmental science perspective, from which many positive youth development approaches are drawn. The model to be built, and the integration it proposes, is based in the overlap between protective factors and developmental assets (drawn from the applied developmental science and positive youth development perspectives), as well as on the complementarity of the intrapersonal mechanisms proposed within the two perspectives. The article also poses important questions for future research and presents an empirical agenda for addressing these questions in the service of building and testing a model of adolescent psychosocial development and of integrating the prevention and positive youth development approaches to intervention and policy.
Altering key characteristics of a disseminated effective behavioral intervention for HIV positive adults: the "healthy relationships" experience.	HIV prevention programs targeted to people living with HIV/AIDS are the US national HIV prevention priority. Healthy Relationships is a nationally disseminated HIV prevention program for HIV positive adults. Key characteristics of the intervention package include gender separated groups facilitated by a mental health professional and a HIV positive peer counselor, both of which cause considerable barriers to implementation. We examined an alteration of the original Healthy Relationships intervention (HR-O) that delivered the intervention to mixed gender groups by non-mental health and non-HIV positive facilitators. Process measures from the altered Healthy Relationships intervention (HR-A) were compared to the same measures taken in the HR-O trial. Intervention completion rates were better in the HR-A model (84%) than HR-O (70%). Results showed that HR-A was comparable to HR-O in social support, group cohesion, and group openness. Facilitators in HR-A were viewed somewhat more positive than in HR-O. We found no empirical basis for conducting separate groups by gender or for constraining the facilitators in terms of their professional and HIV statuses. Research is needed to test the assumptions of other evidence-based HIV prevention programs.
Psychological analysis of university students' physical activity in Bogot, Colombia]	Determining and explaining inherent psychological features in the non-practice, practice and maintenance of physical activity in the Universidad Nacional de Colombia's students during 2004.
Socio-cultural characteristics of physical activity in three regions of Colombia]	Investigating socio-cultural aspects related to living in a community and physical activity in Bogot and the departments of Antioquia and Quindo.
Burden of mortality associated to physical inactivity in Bogota, Colombia]	Estimates of the burden of mortality associated to physical inactivity (PI) have not been quantified for large urban centers located in developing countries.
Experiences in promoting physical activity]	Evaluating the strengths and weaknesses of some experiences emphasising physical activity in promoting health in Bogot.
Effectiveness of small scale income generating activities in reducing risk of HIV in youth in the Republic of Congo.	This short report examines the outcomes from income generating HIV prevention activities initiated in 2002 for youth in Ewo, Republic of Congo. Four years later, a follow up inquiry found that the organised schemes had collapsed, and only 24.2% of the youth were involved in income generating activities. The follow up visit explored practices associated with risk of HIV in young people. The findings suggest that for the youth in Ewo, income generating activities bring revenue, autonomy and new skills that contribute to reduced susceptibility to HIV.
Tobacco images and texts in Norwegian magazines and newspapers.	Print media may influence smoking behaviour through tobacco advertisements and editorial use of tobacco pictures and texts. In Norway tobacco advertising has been banned for many years. The authors studied the coverage of tobacco promotion and tobacco and health in some general Norwegian magazines and newspapers. The findings were related to the publications' policy as stated by their editors.
Bayesian networks: application in safety instrumentation and risk reduction.	The Safety Integrity Level (SIL) of a Safety Instrumented Function (SIF) depends on failures of the various components involved in performing the function. These failures depend on various factors and can be random hardware failures and/or systematic failures. Failure of a SIF need not necessarily result in a hazardous event when there are other layers of protection. Hence the residual risk probability that is left out after various layers of protection is of interest and it should be tolerable. In order to find the residual risk due to a hazard we need to know the demand rate of the hazard, the failure rates of various layers of protection and the factors which influence these failures. So the failure rates are not static and are dynamic, as various factors come into play during the lifecycle of the protection devices involved. In this paper the author proposes Bayesian belief networks to build the scenario based hazard probability model and uses that in the post-design phase to track the residual risk probability. An example is used to illustrate the application.
Minimal versus umbilical waist circumference measures as indicators of cardiovascular disease risk.	Measures of central obesity are strongly correlated with cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. Although waist circumference (WC) is a commonly used measure of central obesity, there is no standard measurement location. We examined two WC locations to determine which was more highly correlated with CVD risk factors and metabolic syndrome (MS).
Exercise and colon cancer: primary and secondary prevention.	Many studies have demonstrated the effects of exercise on both primary and secondary prevention of colon cancer. Exercise appears to have a dose-response reduction in the rate of colon cancer. The mechanism by which exercise provides this benefit is not known, but increase in insulin-like growth factor-binding protein and reduction of prostaglandins appear to be the likely cause. Once a person develops colon cancer the benefits of exercise appear to continue both by increasing quality of life and reducing cancer-specific and overall mortality.
The HIV infection - the limits of prevention concepts. Consideration with respect to responsibilities incumbent on the infected individual, politics and society at large]	Despite the introduction of campaigns to prevent the continued spread of HIV/AIDS in Germany, the number of annual firsttime HIV-diagnoses is continuing steadily. The concepts behind the current campaigns are largely based on models of New Public Health, of which social learning strategies are an essential element. The established personal and individual rights should be unimpeachable but the right not to know the status of HIV infection should be questioned for those people who spread their HIV infection intentionally and wilfully. Confronted with more than 10,000 people in Germany unconscious of their HIV infection, easy access to HIV testing and access of opportune therapy should be offered with the goal of reducing the number of new infections. Expanded strategies on the responsibility to one's personal health and that of the partner, understandable and adapted to special groups of the society, should be established and maintained at a high level of awareness. All measures must be performed voluntarily.
Risk and protective factors for urban African-American youth.	The present study investigated risk and resilience processes in a sample of urban African-American youth. Risk and protective factors were assessed across ecological levels including individual, family and community. Both externalizing and internalizing symptomatology were included as measures of child adjustment. Youth and parental reports as well as various methods, such as the Experience Sampling Method, were used to capture the daily experiences of the adolescents from different perspectives. Poverty, hassles, and exposure to violence predicted higher rates of externalizing and internalizing symptoms. Individual and family protective variables emerged as powerful sources of resilience. An inner sense of confidence and helpful family support were associated with reductions in the deleterious effects of community poverty. Two main patterns, protective-stabilizing and overwhelming-risk, seemed to characterize most of the risk by protective factor interactions. The present findings are important for understanding the complex experiences of urban youth and furthering the literature on sources of risk and protection for African-Americans.
Is there a special responsibility of HIV-positive people? A discussion paper]	In the 1980s, most Western countries decided to opt for a new public health approach based on learning strategies to fight HIV/AIDS. Within the new public health paradigm, every sexually active person protects him-/herself, whereas it is the infected people that bear the burden of prevention according to old public health. The paper begins with a clear statement for the new public health approach that includes self-protection and the protection of civil rights. It argues that this approach is still valid under the changing circumstances due to combination therapies and the developments related to them, such as the introduction of routine HIV screening in some countries. On this background, the paper examines from an ethical perspective to what extent people with HIV have a responsibility in HIV prevention. The paper argues that a person with HIV has a responsibility to protect his/her partner in the case of a relationship of love. On the other hand, in the case of "purely" sexual encounters, each person is responsible for his/her own security and should not rely on the other. This position also helps to clarify prevention messages. In conclusion, the paper shows how morality evolves into ethical positions and then translates into the law. It finally claims for stronger obligations for sex businesses to support HIV prevention.
Can postponement of an adverse outcome be used to present risk reductions to a lay audience? A population survey.	For shared decision making doctors need to communicate the effectiveness of therapies such that patients can understand it and discriminate between small and large effects. Previous research indicates that patients have difficulties in understanding risk measures. This study aimed to test the hypothesis that lay people may be able to discriminate between therapies when their effectiveness is expressed in terms of postponement of an adverse disease event.
Problems with use of composite end points in cardiovascular trials: systematic review of randomised controlled trials.	To explore the extent to which components of composite end points in randomised controlled trials vary in importance to patients, the frequency of events in the more and less important components, and the extent of variability in the relative risk reductions across components.
An overview and update on the metabolic syndrome: implications for identifying cardiometabolic risk among African-American women.	Identifying patients with cardiovascular risks was once the simple process of recognizing the traditional risk factors. However, since the National Cholesterol Educational Program Adult Treatment Panel III guidelines were released in 2001, and again revised in 2004, identification of cardiovascular risk has become more complicated. This article provides both an overview and an update on the metabolic syndrome as a cluster of risk factors for both type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease (CVD). Specific issues are discussed as they relate to African-American women and their prevalence of the metabolic syndrome and cardiometabolic risk. Nurses are optimally prepared to identify the early signs of cardiometabolic risk by testing for and assessing the metabolic syndrome. Likewise, nursing is in a position to provide teaching and counsel regarding the needed lifestyle alterations for patients with metabolic syndrome in order to reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and/or stroke.
Fighting against sudden death: a single or multidisciplinary approach.	There are many causes of sudden death ranging from accidents and suicide to vascular events and arrhythmias. Most sudden deaths will occur in people who have not been diagnosed with a serious heart condition but at a very low annual rate. Many of these events are probably vascular and might be prevented by reducing the risk of developing coronary disease. Only a minority of sudden deaths occur in people with established cardiac disease, but in patients with major structural heart disease, the annual rate is high. The causes of sudden death are many in this clinical setting also, but dominated by ventricular arrhythmias and vascular events. There is good evidence that conventional treatments for heart failure, including ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers, aldosterone antagonists and cardiac resynchronization devices reduce the risk of sudden death. Evidence that statins, aspirin or revascularisation are safe or effective in patients with heart failure is currently lacking. Implantable defibrillators confer a small but definite additional survival advantage by treating arrhythmias that have not been prevented.
The scientific basis for healthy eating]	A diet is healthy when it encourages good health and reduces the risk of diet-related chronic diseases. Epidemiological research has demonstrated a close relationship between diet and the risk of developing these chronic diseases, which are characterized by high morbidity and mortality. The Mediterranean diet is a tradition that goes back for centuries and which contributes to excellent nutritional status; this diet is highly palatable and forms part of world culture. Some of the most outstanding recent studies on the relationship between unhealthy lifestyle and the risk of disease are reviewed.
The guidelines for the effective prevention of pressure ulcers]	The pressure ulcers belong to hard healing chronic wounds which can be the cause of heavy systemic complications delaying recovery to health and exposing patients to psychophysical suffering. They increase the demand for medical care and cause the growth of general costs of treatment and hospitalization. The most subjected to the development of bedsores are long-term immobilized and severely ill patients. Therefore, identification of high risk patients and the initiation of preventive workings are highly recommended. The aim of this work was to indicate the essential elements of prophylaxis of bedsores that are helpful in organization ofnurses' work. They include the following elements: risk estimation, decreased pressure and mechanical forces, correct state of skin, pain control, assurance of proper nutrition state, patient's activation, complex and individualized care. To achieve high effectiveness of prevention the teams initiating and estimating the effectiveness of standards and prophylaxis programs and treatment of chronic wounds are appointed. The aim of their work is to reduce the prevalence and the development of bedsores among menaced patients.
Influence of lifestyle in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease]	The prevalence of the symptoms of reflux (hearthburn and acid regurgitation) and of gastro-esophageal reflux disease is high. Numerous lifestyle modifications have been advocated in the prognosis of reflux. Obesity, the decubitus, eating rapidly, tobacco, alcohol and exercise provoke symptoms of the reflux (hearthburn and acid regurgitation). The proportion of fat in the food and stress aren't factors associated with reflux. Some works point at the chocolate, at the acid juices, at the carbonated beverages and at the onions as factors that unleash symptoms of reflux. Nevertheless larger prospective controlled trials are warranted. Gum-chewing after eating, keep standing up and to go to bed 4 h after dinner improves the symptoms of the reflux and the gastro-esophageal reflux disease.
Outdoor air pollution: counseling and exposure risk reduction.	Air pollution is monitored on a daily basis in large population centers in the United States and reported to the general public through a variety of media outlets as the Air Quality Index. This index is based on current national air quality standards for criteria air pollutants established by the US Environmental Protection Agency. Patients at increased risk for adverse effects of inhaled air pollutants include those who have been diagnosed with chronic lung disease and cardiovascular disease, including asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, and peripheral vascular disease, although others may also be at risk during periods of unusually high pollutant levels. These patients should be educated regarding what symptoms may be related to poor air quality and how they can monitor the Air Quality Index to modify their activity to prevent symptoms and other adverse events. Heavy outdoor exertion should be avoided on days expected to have poor air quality, or performed earlier in the day on days when outdoor activity cannot be avoided. We recommend advising patients in clear, strong, personalized language that air pollution is harmful and that persons with cardiopulmonary disease are at elevated risk of experiencing a serious adverse health effect from exposure.
A "Community Manifesto" for gay and bisexual men: an appeal to control HIV/STDs.	In response to increasing rates of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) among men who have sex with men (MSM) in Seattle & King County, a task force including community members, HIV/AIDS professionals, and health department staff authored "A Community Manifesto: A New Response to HIV and STDs." The manifesto emphasized both personal and collective responsibility for gay and bisexual men to stop the spread of STDs.
The 2005 British Columbia Smoking Cessation Mass Media Campaign and short-term changes in smoking.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of the 2005 British Columbia Ministry of Health Smoking Cessation Mass Media Campaign on short-term smoking behavior.
Prime Time Sister Circles: evaluating a gender-specific, culturally relevant health intervention to decrease major risk factors in mid-life African-American women.	To evaluate the effectiveness of Prime Time Sister Circles (PTSC), a curriculum-based, culture- and gender-specific health intervention, in assisting mid-life African-American women to decrease the major risk factors of physical inactivity, poor nutrition and stress.
Protecting children from toxic exposure: three strategies.	To a toxicologist, "poisonings" are cases in which the child has a defined pattern of symptoms, corresponding to toxic effects at a mid to high level of exposure. "Toxicity" refers to a broader spectrum of effects. At lower levels of toxicity a child may have no specific, individual symptoms but may be affected subclinically. There are three basic strategies to protect children: individual intervention, the preventive medicine strategy, and the public health strategy. This article uses lead exposure as a model for discussing these differences in terminology and the three different protective strategies.
Diet and vitamin or mineral supplementation and risk of rectal cancer in Canada.	The study examines the relation of diet and vitamin or mineral supplementation with risk of rectal cancer. Mailed questionnaires were completed by 1 380 newly diagnosed patients with histologically confirmed rectal cancer and 3 097 population controls between 1994 and 1997 in seven Canadian provinces. Measurement included information on socio-economic status, lifestyle, diet and vitamin or mineral supplementation. We derived odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals through unconditional logistic regression. Total of consumption of vegetables, fruit and whole-grain products did not reduce the risk of rectal cancer. Consumption of cruciferous vegetables was inversely associated with risk of rectal cancer among women only, as did chicken intake among men. The strongest dietary association with increased rectal cancer risk appeared in males with increasing total fat intake and in females with bacon intake. Vitamin and mineral supplementation showed significant inverse associations with rectal cancer in women only. These findings suggest that dietary risk factors for rectal cancer in women may differ from those in men.
Preliminary findings of an intervention integrating modified directly observed therapy and risk reduction counseling.	Various interventions have been proposed to address these ongoing needs of HIV-positive patients as they encounter challenges with medication adherence and risk reduction. This report presents the findings of a study that pilots 'DAART+', an intervention that integrates modified directly observed therapy (MDOT), and risk reduction counseling for a population of marginally housed, substance-using persons. The pilot study intended to assess the feasibility of the intervention and to obtain data to assess the intervention's potential effectiveness. The preliminary data reveal that 83% of participants who completed the intervention (n=18) had undetectable viral load (VL) (VL< or =400 copies/mL) which represents a 2.15 log(10) decrease from baseline. Risk behaviors also changed modestly with self-reported increases in condom usage.
Decreasing population blood pressure is not mediated by changes in habitual physical activity. Results from 15 years of follow-up.	Population blood pressure (PBP) is the average BP shared by all members of a population. In PBP research, the main focus is on the great majority of individuals who are healthy in respect to blood pressure. From previous studies, we know that PBP decreased 2 mmHg during 15 years of follow-up. This decrease leads to significant reductions in cardiovascular (CV) and cerebrovascular risk. The major aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of habitual physical activity on PBP.
The dilemma of ICD implant testing.	Ventricular fibrillation (VF) has been induced at implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) implant to ensure reliable sensing, detection, and defibrillation. Despite its risks, the value was self-evident for early ICDs: failure of defibrillation was common, recipients had a high risk of ventricular tachycardia (VT) or VF, and the only therapy for rapid VT or VF was a shock. Today, failure of defibrillation is rare, the risk of VT/VF is lower in some recipients, antitachycardia pacing is applied for fast VT, and vulnerability testing permits assessment of defibrillation efficacy without inducing VF in most patients. This review reappraises ICD implant testing. At implant, defibrillation success is influenced by both predictable and unpredictable factors, including those related to the patient, ICD system, drugs, and complications. For left pectoral implants of high-output ICDs, the probability of passing a 10 J safety margin is approximately 95%, the probability that a maximum output shock will defibrillate is approximately 99%, and the incidence of system revision based on testing is < or = 5%. Bayes' Theorem predicts that implant testing identifies < or = 50% of patients at high risk for unsuccessful defibrillation. Most patients who fail implant criteria have false negative tests and may undergo unnecessary revision of their ICD systems. The first-shock success rate for spontaneous VT/VF ranges from 83% to 93%, lower than that for induced VF. Thus, shocks for spontaneous VT/VF fail for reasons that are not evaluated at implant. Whether system revision based on implant testing improves this success rate is unknown. The risks of implant testing include those related to VF and those related to shocks alone. The former may be due to circulatory arrest alone or the combination of circulatory arrest and shocks. Vulnerability testing reduces risks related to VF, but not those related to shocks. Mortality from implant testing probably is 0.1-0.2%. Overall, VF should be induced to assess sensing in approximately 5% of ICD recipients. Defibrillation or vulnerability testing is indicated in 20-40% of recipients who can be identified as having a higher-than-usual probability of an inadequate defibrillation safety margin based on patient-specific factors. However, implant testing is too risky in approximately 5% of recipients and may not be worth the risks in 10-30%. In 25-50% of ICD recipients, testing cannot be identified as either critical or contraindicated.
eHealth evaluation and dissemination research.	This paper reviews key challenges in evaluating eHealth intervention and behavior change programs, and makes recommendations for the types of designs, measures, and methods needed to accelerate the integration of proven eHealth programs into practice. Key issues discussed include evaluation approaches that answer questions that consumers, potential adoptees, and policymakers have. These include measures of participation and representativeness at both patient and healthcare setting levels, consistency of outcomes across different subgroups, tendency of an eHealth program to ameliorate versus exacerbate health disparities, implementation and program adaptation, cost, and quality-of-life outcomes. More practical eHealth trials are needed that use rigorous but creative designs compatible with eHealth interventions and theory. These evaluations should address key dissemination issues, such as appeal, use, and robustness of eHealth programs across different subgroups, settings, conditions, outcomes, and time.
Inductionless or limited shock testing is possible in most patients with implantable cardioverter- defibrillators/cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators: results of the multicenter ASSURE Study (Arrhythmia Single Shock Defibrillation Threshold Testing Versus Upper Limit of Vulnerability: Risk Reduction Evaluation With Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillator Implantations).	Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators and cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators have relied on multiple ventricular fibrillation (VF) induction/defibrillation tests at implantation to ensure that the device can reliably sense, detect, and convert VF. The ASSURE Study (Arrhythmia Single Shock Defibrillation Threshold Testing Versus Upper Limit of Vulnerability: Risk Reduction Evaluation With Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillator Implantations) is the first large, multicenter, prospective trial comparing vulnerability safety margin testing versus defibrillation safety margin testing with a single VF induction/defibrillation.
Assessment and treatment of violence-prone forensic clients: an integrated approach.	A risk-reduction treatment programme complemented by a focused assessment, both guided by the risk-need-responsivity principles, is suggested as the preferred treatment for violence-prone individuals with personality disorder.
Comparison of energy expenditure from lifestyle physical activities between patients with rheumatoid arthritis and healthy controls.	Low energy expenditure is a risk for cardiovascular morbidity. The goals of this study were to compare energy expenditure between patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and healthy controls.
Health at every size: a compassionate, effective approach for helping individuals with weight-related concerns--part I.	It would be difficult to overstate the urgency that U.S. government and health officials have placed on the dangers posed by obesity. Given the increasing numbers of individuals being diagnosed as overweight and obese and the emphasis on the contribution of weight to health and disease, it is critical that all health professionals examine the validity of the claims being made. A thorough examination of the research literature does not support the claims that overweight and obesity are major causes of premature mortality, excess fat is pathological and a direct cause of disease, and weight loss is practical and beneficial to health for most individuals. The literature also does not provide any significant evidence-based support for current approaches to weight management. In fact, it suggests that these approaches may likely be doing more harm than good.
GDL then and now.	The first comprehensive Graduated License (GDL) law was implemented in Florida in 1996. Now, most states have implemented one or more GDL provision including: extending the time for which a learners permit must be held prior to licensure; passenger restriction; and night driving restriction. Evidence to support each of these provisions existed prior to 1996 and has been largely confirmed with the evaluation of each new state to implement GDL. Nationally, fatal crash involvements of 16 year-old drivers have decreased 23% (1993-1995 vs. 2003-2005). Greater reductions have been seen for crash involvements at night and with passengers. The single most effective GDL provision appears to be the extension of the learners period when this extension has the effect of delaying the time at which unsupervised driving is permitted.
The reasons coronary heart disease mortality has increased in China.	To inaugurate the fifth year of its publication, The American Heart Hospital Journal (AHHJ) focused its Winter 2007 issue on health care systems from around the world, with 8 articles contributed by national leaders in their respective countries. Due to the interest and wide range of expertise in the international cardiac community, we will continue to publish Special Reports throughout 2007 on this topic. We invite members of the international community to share with readers of the AHHJ, their insights on the strengths and weaknesses of their respective health care and cardiac care systems, as well as their ideas and aspirations for future change.
Lifestyle Interventions and Independence for Elders pilot study: recruitment and baseline characteristics.	To describe several recruitment parameters derived from the Lifestyle Interventions and Independence for Elders pilot (LIFE-P) study for use in a full-scale trial of mobility disability prevention.
Lifestyle intervention to prevent diabetes in men and women with impaired glucose tolerance is cost-effective.	The Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study (DPS) was a randomized intervention program that evaluated the effect of intensive lifestyle modification on the development of diabetes mellitus type 2 in patients with impaired glucose tolerance. As such, a program is demanding in terms of resources; it is necessary to assess whether it would be money well spent. This determination was the purpose of this study.
Anaphylaxis: evidence-based long-term risk reduction in the community.	Anaphylaxis occurs frequently in the community, and it can be fatal in community settings. Risk assessment and risk reduction should ideally be coordinated by an allergy/immunology specialist and focus on: (1) prevention of subsequent anaphylaxis episodes, (2) emergency preparedness, and (3) anaphylaxis education. Preventive strategies should include trigger avoidance, specific preventive measures, and optimal management of comorbidities. Despite best efforts to avoid anaphylaxis triggers they can be encountered inadvertently, and anaphylaxis episodes can and do recur. Risk reduction therefore also focuses on emergency preparedness: carrying self-injectable epinephrine, having a personalized Anaphylaxis Emergency Action Plan, and wearing accurate medical identification. Anaphylaxis education should involve not only at-risk individuals and their families, but also health care professionals and the general public.
Cholesterol, cholesterol-lowering agents/statins, and urologic disease: Part V--Statins versus aspirin for primary prevention, and the winner is...?	There are no national guidelines when comparing an aspirin daily to a statin drug in individuals with no history of a cardiovascular event (primary prevention). However, recent reviews of the medical clinical research on statins and aspirin for preventing a first coronary heart disease (CHD) event concluded that compared to no treatment, aspirin is cheaper and has more of an impact in middle-aged men whose 10-year risk for CHD is 7.5% or higher, and adding a statin to aspirin therapy is better in terms of cost effectiveness when a patient's 10-year CHD risk before any treatment is greater than 10%. However, when scrutinizing these data it seems that statins beat aspirin in every single risk-reduction category, and has equal to perhaps less side effects, but a statin costs more. In addition, patients should be informed about the recent observational data suggesting that statins may reduce mortality from other causes such as prostate cancer.
Cholesterol, cholesterol-lowering agents/statins, and urologic disease: Part VI--The recent rise and fall of the HDL-boosting drug torceptrapib.	Pfizer Inc. recently discontinued its billion-dollar investment and phase III clinical trial of their new high-density lipoprotein (HDL) or "good cholesterol" boosting drug torceptrapib because of unexpected life-threatening side effects. To provide an objective discussion with patients looking for the next miracle drug or even dietary supplement in medicine, it is important to provide an overview of the history of this drug. It should serve as an important lesson that traditional lifestyle factors and proven heart healthy medications have stood the test of time in terms of research. Despite the current interest in drug development, traditional HDL-boosting lifestyle initiatives such as exercise, weight loss, and smoking cessation can be incorporated now and are heart and urologic healthy.
New, integrated model of care targets risk rather than disease.	That's the key to getting healthcare costs under control, according to one health plan that has reengineered its programming with this concept in mind.
Hypertension in children: an update on treatment strategies.	Hypertension is among the more prevalent treatable diseases that afflict children. Pediatric hypertension carries significant short-term morbidity and long-term risk for the development of cardiovascular disease. This review addresses issues significant to the chronic management of hypertension and discusses common pharmacological agents currently used to treat elevated blood pressure in children.
Factors associated with public injecting among users of Vancouver's supervised injection facility.	We evaluated factors associated with public drug injection among a cohort of injection drug users (SEOSI) originally recruited from within Vancouver's supervised injecting facility (SIF).
Photoprotection: where do we stand?	Ultraviolet sun radiation can cause several deleterious effects on the skin, including photoaging and carcinogenesis. Physical protection and sunscreens are currently the two main types of photoprotection. Overall, people seem informed about the dangers of sun exposure, but sometimes they are not willing to implement the right sun-protection measures. Sunscreens are reported to be the most frequently used method worldwide, but they cannot substitute physical protection and a proportion of people do not apply them correctly. Public campaigns, together with fashion and the right role models, can still offer a lot in persuading people to change their habits towards a more sun-protected life.
Anti-aging therapy through fitness enhancement.	Physical exercise is proposed as a highly effective means of treating and preventing the main causes of morbidity and mortality--most of which are associated with aging--in industrialized countries. Low physical fitness is an important risk factor for cardiovascular and all-causes morbidity and mortality; indeed, it is even a predictor of these problems. When properly measured, the assessment of physical fitness can be a highly valuable indicator of health and life expectancy and, therefore, should be performed routinely in the clinical setting. Individually adapted training programs could be prescribed based on fitness assessment results and an adequate knowledge of patient lifestyle and daily physical activity. Such training programs would allow people to develop their maximum physical potential, improve their physical and mental health, and attenuate the negative consequences of aging.
Identifying multiple submissions in Internet research: preserving data integrity.	Internet-based sexuality research with hidden populations has become increasingly popular. Respondent anonymity may encourage participation and lower social desirability, but associated disinhibition may promote multiple submissions, especially when incentives are offered. The goal of this study was to identify the usefulness of different variables for detecting multiple submissions from repeat responders and to explore incentive effects. The data included 1,900 submissions from a three-session Internet intervention with a pretest and three post-test questionnaires. Participants were men who have sex with men and incentives were offered to rural participants for completing each questionnaire. The final number of submissions included 1,273 "unique", 132 first submissions by "repeat responders" and 495 additional submissions by the "repeat responders" (N = 1,900). Four categories of repeat responders were identified: "infrequent" (2-5 submissions), "persistent" (6-10 submissions), "very persistent" (11-30 submissions), and "hackers" (more than 30 submissions). Internet Provider (IP) addresses, user names, and passwords were the most useful for identifying "infrequent" repeat responders. "Hackers" often varied their IP address and identifying information to prevent easy identification, but investigating the data for small variations in IP, using reverse telephone look up, and patterns across usernames and passwords were helpful. Incentives appeared to play a role in stimulating multiple submissions, especially from the more sophisticated "hackers". Finally, the web is ever evolving and it will be necessary to have good programmers and staff who evolve as fast as "hackers".
Development of a family-based program to reduce risk and promote resilience among families affected by maternal depression: theoretical basis and program description.	Depression is a family matter. It not only diminishes the quality-of-life of the depressed person, but also strains the resources of the family unit and increases the children's risk of developing significant problems that start early and persist into adulthood. Although treatment of a parent's depression is critical, many families also need professional intervention to reduce children's risk. This article reviews the evidence on needs of these families and shows that the theoretical and clinical evidence exists to support the design of interventions for families affected by maternal depression. A preventive intervention developed from this foundation is described, the Keeping Families Strong (KFS) program, that is designed to promote resilience and reduce the risk for psychological disorders in children of parents with depression. The pilot study on the KFS program, conducted in adult mental health outpatient settings, is described. Families participate in 10 meetings 90 min each, with a group for parents and for children (10 years and older) conducted concurrently. The program structure and content are described, the challenges of implementing a family preventive intervention in actual clinical settings are discussed, and a case example is provided, as well as preliminary outcome data on ten families. In sum, we provide a strong rationale for the potential of preventive interventions for families affected by maternal depression.
Control of enteric pathogens in ready-to-eat vegetable crops in organic and 'low input' production systems: a HACCP-based approach.	Risks from pathogens such as Salmonella, Yersinia, Campylobacter and Escherichia coli O157 have been identified as a particular concern for organic and 'low input' food production systems that rely on livestock manure as a nutrient source. Current data do not allow any solid conclusions to be drawn about the level of this risk, relative to conventional production systems. This review describes six Risk Reduction Points (RRPs) where risks from enteric pathogens can be reduced in ready-to-eat vegetables. Changes can be made to animal husbandry practices (RRP1) to reduce inoculum levels in manure. Outdoor livestock management (RRP2) can be optimized to eliminate the risk of faecal material entering irrigation water. Manure storage and processing (RRP3), soil management practices (RRP4) and timing of manure application (RRP5), can be adjusted to reduce the survival of pathogens originating from manure. During irrigation (RRP6), pathogen risks can be reduced by choosing a clean water source and minimizing the chances of faecal material splashing on to the crop. Although preventive measures at these RRPs can minimize enteric pathogen risk, zero risk can never be obtained for raw ready-to-eat vegetables. Good food hygiene practices at home are essential to reduce the incidence of food-borne illnesses.
Parameters for safer gambling behavior: examining the empirical research.	There have been claims that new gambling technology is hazardous to player health, and that technological interventions can alleviate gambling-related harm. In this paper, we systematically review the empirical research about the nexus between gambling and technology to evaluate the veracity of these claims. We use a public health perspective (i.e., the Epidemiologic Triangle) to organize and present study results (i.e., agent, host, and environment). This review intends to offer insight about emerging technology and identify areas that indicate a need for additional research. Forty-seven studies met our inclusion and exclusion criteria; a review of this body of work shows that attempts to develop and implement safety features for new gambling technology are promising, but methodologically are rudimentary and limited in scope. Increased attention to the dynamic interaction among host, agent, and environment factors hold potential to advance the field. In addition, improved study methods (e.g., longitudinal analyses of actual betting behavior), and collaboration among policymakers, manufacturers, and researchers can increase understanding of how new gambling technology affects the public health and stimulate new strategies for implementing effective public health interventions.
Adolescents' avoidance of secondhand smoke exposure: model testing.	More than half of young adolescents, 13 to 15 years old, suffer exposure to secondhand smoke (SHS) at home and in public places. Despite threats to adolescent health and well-being, little research has been done to identify factors that enable adolescents to avoid SHS. The objective of this study was to develop a model to predict SHS avoidance behavior among young adolescents. The impact of gender differences on predictor variances was investigated. Model testing was conducted using structural equation modeling on data from 1,291 nonsmoking Taiwanese middle school students. Attitude toward SHS is an important factor influencing the avoidance behavior of adolescents. The explanatory model of SHS avoidance behaviors provides useful information for program development aimed at decreasing adolescent exposure to SHS. Interventions focused on influencing adolescent attitudes toward SHS and supporting avoidance self-efficacy are needed.
Soap opera video on handheld computers to reduce young urban women's HIV sex risk.	The purpose of this study was to develop a soap opera video, A Story about Toni, Mike, and Valerie, designed to communicate HIV risk reduction themes. The study evaluated viewing the video and responding to audio computer assisted self-interview (ACASI) on a handheld computer. The sample was 76 predominately African American women, aged 18-29, in sexual relationships with men. Data were collected in urban neighborhoods in the northeastern United States. A pretest-posttest control group design with systematic assignment indicated statistically significant reduction in expectations to engage in unprotected sex in the experimental group. The handheld computer was found to be acceptable to view the near feature length video and complete ACASI. To date, no study has reported on use of video and ACASI on a handheld device to reduce HIV risk. The significance is the potential to stream health promotion videos to personal devices, such as cell phones.
Does cognition predict mortality in midlife? Results from the Whitehall II cohort study.	The authors examined the association of 'g' (general intelligence) factor and five specific cognitive measures assessed in 1997-1999 with mortality till 2006 (mean follow-up of 8 years) in the middle-aged Whitehall II cohort study. In age- and sex-adjusted analysis, a decrease in 1 S.D. in memory (hazard ratio (HR), 1.19; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.02, 1.39) and in Alice Heim 4-I (AH4-I) (HR, 1.16; 95% CI: 1.01, 1.35) was found to be associated with higher mortality. The association with 'g' factor, phonemic and semantic fluency did not reach significance at p<0.05. No association was found with vocabulary. Out of education, health behaviours and health measures, it was health behaviours that explained the greater part of the association between cognition and mortality, ranging from 21% for memory to 70% for semantic fluency. All the covariates taken together explained only 26% of the association with memory and between 33 and 90% for the other cognitive measures. This study suggests that 'g' type composite measure of cognition might not be enough to understand the associations between cognition and health.
Applying social marketing in health care: communicating evidence to change consumer behavior.	Social marketing uses commercial marketing strategies to change individual and organizational behavior and policies. It has been effective on a population level across a wide range of public health and health care domains. There is limited evidence of the effectiveness of social marketing in changing health care consumer behavior through its impact on patient-provider interaction or provider behavior. Social marketers need to identify translatable strategies (e.g., competition analysis, branding, and tailored messages) that can be applied to health care provider and consumer behavior. Three case studies from social marketing illustrate potential strategies to change provider and consumer behavior. Countermarketing is a rapidly growing social marketing strategy that has been effective in tobacco control and may be effective in countering pharmaceutical marketing using specific message strategies. Informed decision making is a useful strategy when there is medical uncertainty, such as in prostate cancer screening and treatment. Pharmaceutical industry marketing practices offer valuable lessons for developing competing messages to reach providers and consumers. Social marketing is an effective population-based behavior change strategy that can be applied in individual clinical settings and as a complement to reinforce messages communicated on a population level. There is a need for more research on message strategies that work in health care and population-level effectiveness studies.
Risk communication planning for the aftermath of a plague bioattack.	We create an influence diagram of how a plague bioattack could unfold and then use it to identify factors shaping infection risks in many possible scenarios. The influence diagram and associated explanations provide a compact reference that allows risk communicators to identify key messages for pre-event preparation and testing. It can also be used to answer specific questions in whatever unique situations arise, considering both the conditions of the attack and the properties of the attacked populations. The influence diagram allows a quick, visual check of the factors that must be covered when evaluating audience information needs. The documentation provides content for explaining the resultant advice. We show how these tools can help in preparing for crises and responding to them.
Impact of nucleic acid testing for hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, and human immunodeficiency virus on the safety of blood supply in Italy: a 6-year survey.	Nucleic acid testing (NAT) for hepatitis C virus (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has been implemented in several European countries and in the United States, while hepatitis B virus (HBV) NAT is still being questioned by opinions both in favor and against such an option, depending on the HBV endemicity, health care resources, and expected benefits.
Errors in patient specimen collection: application of statistical process control.	Errors in the collection and labeling of blood samples for pretransfusion testing increase the risk of transfusion-associated patient morbidity and mortality. Statistical process control (SPC) is a recognized method to monitor the performance of a critical process. An easy-to-use SPC method was tested to determine its feasibility as a tool for monitoring quality in transfusion medicine.
Cost-effectiveness of primary versus secondary prophylaxis with pegfilgrastim in women with early-stage breast cancer receiving chemotherapy.	Prophylaxis with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) reduces the risk of febrile neutropenia (FN) in patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy. We estimated the incremental cost-effectiveness of G-CSF pegfilgrastim primary (starting in cycle 1 and continuing in subsequent cycles of chemotherapy) versus secondary (only after an FN event) prophylaxis in women with early-stage breast cancer receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy with a >or=20% FN risk.
The interaction of childhood height and childhood BMI in the prediction of young adult BMI.	The purpose of this study was to examine the interaction of childhood height and childhood BMI in the prediction of young adult BMI. The 2,802 subjects in this study were from the Child and Adolescent Trial for Cardiovascular Health (CATCH). The subjects' heights and weights were measured in 3rd grade (mean age 8.7 years) and again in 12th grade (mean age 18.3 years). The associations and interactions between height (cm) and BMI (kg/m(2)) were assessed using mixed linear regression models with adult BMI as the dependent variable. We found a significant interaction between childhood height and childhood BMI in the prediction of adult BMI (P < 0.0001). Stratification by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reference quintiles revealed that a positive association between childhood height and adult BMI existed only for those subjects in the top quintile of childhood BMI, within whom predicted adult BMI ranged from 27.5 (95% confidence interval = 26.4-28.6) for those in the shortest height quintile to 30.2 (95% confidence interval = 29.7-30.6) for those in the highest height quintile. Among children with high BMI levels, those who were taller, as compared to those who were shorter, had significantly higher young adult BMI levels. This pattern seems primarily due to the positive association of childhood height and childhood BMI. Clinicians should recognize the risk of excess body weight in young adulthood for all children who have a high BMI, and pay special attention to those who are tall, because their childhood height will not protect them from subsequent weight gain and elevated BMI.
Weight regain and health-related quality of life in postmenopausal women.	Weight loss improves health-related quality of life (HRQoL). However, regain after loss is common; little is known about the impact of weight regain on HRQoL in postmenopausal women. Woman on the Move through Activity and Nutrition (WOMAN) is a randomized lifestyle intervention trial of diet, physical activity, and weight loss in 508 postmenopausal women aged 52-62 years. This analysis focused on the women who lost > or =5 lb during the initial phase of the study, baseline to 6 months (n = 248). This cohort was divided into three groups based on subsequent weight change between 6 and 18 months: weight loss (WL; > or =5 lb loss), weight stable (WS; <+/-5 lb change), and weight regain (WR; > or =5 lb gain). HRQoL was measured at baseline, 6, and 18 months using the Short Form-36. Of the 248 women studied, 51 (21%) continued to lose weight after initial weight loss, while 127 (51%) maintained a stable weight, and 70 (28%) regained weight. Between baseline and 6 months, women in WR group had decreased mental health and social-functioning scores, while the WL and WS groups improved in these subscales. Between baseline and 18 months, energy improved most significantly in those with continued weight loss (P = 0.0003). Weight loss was correlated with a small to moderate improvement in perceived general health and energy, which was reversed by weight gain. Further study is needed to investigate the impact of a decline in mental health and social functioning on future weight regain.
Secondary prevention of stroke: using the experiences of patients and carers to inform the development of an educational resource.	Patients who have had one stroke are at increased risk of another. Secondary prevention strategies that address medical risk factors and promote healthy lifestyles can reduce the risk. However, concordance with secondary prevention strategies is poor and there has been little research into patient and carer views.
Effects of the angiotensin-receptor blocker telmisartan on cardiovascular events in high-risk patients intolerant to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: a randomised controlled trial.	Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors reduce major cardiovascular events, but are not tolerated by about 20% of patients. We therefore assessed whether the angiotensin-receptor blocker telmisartan would be effective in patients intolerant to ACE inhibitors with cardiovascular disease or diabetes with end-organ damage.
Faulty perceptions? The impact of binge drinking history on college women's perceived rape resistance efficacy.	College women who binge drink are at greater risk than their peers for experiencing an alcohol-involved rape. Evidence suggests that these women commonly underestimate their risk for assault. This study examines college women's perceptions of their rape resistance efficacy in two acquaintance rape scenarios (one involving the woman's alcohol consumption and one not) as a function of their binge drinking and alcohol-involved rape history. Alcohol-involved rape was inversely associated only with efficacy in situations involving alcohol. Binge drinking was differentially predictive of efficacy in the two scenarios, with regular binge drinkers being significantly more likely to have high perceived efficacy in rape scenarios in which they were drinking and significantly less likely than their peers to have high perceived efficacy in rape scenarios in which they weren't drinking. Findings have direct implications for both college drinking and rape risk reduction interventions, highlighting the need to address women's minimization of alcohol's impact on their rape resistance ability.
Imperial or postcolonial governance? Dissecting the genealogy of a global public health strategy.	During the last decades of the 20th century it became increasingly apparent that the inter-relationship between globalisation and health is extremely complex. This complexity is highlighted in debates surrounding the re-emergence of infectious diseases, where it is recognised that the processes of globalisation have combined to create the conditions where once localised, microbial hazards have come to pose a threat to many western nations. By contrast, in an emerging literature relating to the epidemic of non-communicable diseases, and reflected in the WHO 'Global strategy on diet, physical activity and health', it is the so-called 'western lifestyle' that has been cast as the main threat to a population's health. This paper explores critically global responses to this development. Building on our interest in questions of governance and the ethical management of the healthy body, we examine whether the global strategy, in seeking to contain the influence of a 'western lifestyle', also promotes contemporary 'western-inspired' approaches to public health practices. The paper indicates that a partial reading of the WHO strategy suggests that certain countries, especially those outside the West, are being captured or 'enframed' by the integrative ambitions of a western 'imperial' vision of global health. However, when interpreted critically through a postcolonial lens, we argue that 'integration' is more complex, and that the subtle and dynamic relations of power that exist between countries of the West/non-West, are exposed.
Circumcision and HIV infection: assessment of causality.	Whether the observed association between male circumcision and HIV infection is causal or not has not been verified. We did a meta-analysis of published data and applied Hill's criteria for causality on all available evidence to assess presence of a causal association. Analysis was by the random effects method. Summary estimates were calculated for all studies combined and for sub groups stratified by type of study population, study design, and method of ascertaining circumcision status. Thirteen studies were included. Circumcised men had a reduced risk for HIV infection (adjusted RRoverall = 0.42, 95% CI 0.33-0.53; RR(RCT) = 0.43 95% CI 0.32-0.59, RRobservational = 0.39, 95% CI 0.27-0.56). Available evidence satisfies six of Hill's criteria: strength of association, consistency, temporality, coherence, biological plausibility, and experiment. These results provide unequivocal evidence that circumcision plays a causal role in reducing the risk of HIV infection among men.
Guideline implementation for breast healthcare in low-income and middle-income countries: overview of the Breast Health Global Initiative Global Summit 2007.	Breast cancer outcomes in low- and middle-income countries (LMCs) correlate with the degree to which 1) cancers are detected at early stages, 2) newly detected cancers can be diagnosed correctly, and 3) appropriately selected multimodality treatment can be provided properly in a timely fashion. The Breast Health Global Initiative (BHGI) invited international experts to review and revise previously developed BHGI resource-stratified guideline tables for early detection, diagnosis, treatment, and healthcare systems. Focus groups addressed specific issues in breast pathology, radiation therapy, and management of locally advanced disease. Process metrics were developed based on the priorities established in the guideline stratification. The groups indicated that cancer prevention through health behavior modification could influence breast cancer incidence in LMCs. Diagnosing breast cancer at earlier stages will reduce breast cancer mortality. Programs to promote breast self-awareness and clinical breast examination and resource-adapted mammographic screening are important early detection steps. Breast imaging, initially with ultrasound and, at higher resource levels with diagnostic mammography, improves preoperative diagnostic assessment and permits image-guided needle sampling. Multimodality therapy includes surgery, radiation, and systemic therapies. Government intervention is needed to address drug-delivery problems relating to high cost and poor access. Guideline dissemination and implementation research plays a crucial role in improving care. Adaptation of technology is needed in LMCs, especially for breast imaging, pathology, radiation therapy, and systemic treatment. Curricula for education and training in LMCs should be developed, applied, and studied in LMC-based learning laboratories to aid information transfer of evidence-based BHGI guidelines.
Breast cancer prevention in countries with diverse resources.	Breast cancer is the most common invasive cancer in women globally, and it affects more than 1 million women worldwide each year. It is a preventable disease in part, and primary care providers and public health programs play a key role in providing cancer preventive care. There are several health behaviors that may reduce the risk of breast cancer, including prolonged lactation; regular physical activity; avoiding overweight, obesity, and lifetime weight gain; avoiding excess alcohol intake; avoiding prolonged use of exogenous hormone therapy; and avoiding excessive radiation. These behaviors, although they have not been proven in clinical trials to reduce risk, are likely to be beneficial; information on them can be provided as a prevention strategy in countries of diverse means, although the methods of information delivery and follow-up will depend on financial and personnel resources. Many of these health behaviors can reduce the risk for other chronic diseases and, thus, may be of great interest for general public health. In high resource level countries, additional prevention methods are available for high-risk women, including selective estrogen response modulators and, for women at very high risk, bilateral prophylactic mastectomy and bilateral oophorectomy. Most women can benefit from advice and preventive care for reducing their risk for breast cancer.
Mixed messages and a missed opportunity: Australian news media coverage of Clare Oliver's campaign against solaria.	To review television and print media coverage of the campaign to regulate solaria that was initiated by Clare Oliver before her death from melanoma in late 2007, and to investigate how the media constructed the aetiology of her disease.
Preventing HIV transmission via HIV exposure laws: applying logic and mathematical modeling to compare statutory approaches to penalizing undisclosed exposure to HIV.	Twenty-four U.S. states have enacted HIV exposure laws that prohibit HIV-positive persons from engaging in sexual activities with partners to whom they have not disclosed their HIV status. There is little standardization among existing HIV exposure laws, which vary substantially with respect to the sexual activities that are prohibited without prior serostatus disclosure. Logical analysis and mathematical modeling were used to explore the HIV prevention effectiveness of two types of HIV exposure laws: "strict" laws that require HIV-positive persons to disclose their serostatus to prospective partners prior to any sexual activity and "flexible" laws that require seropositive status disclosure only prior to high-risk sex (e.g., unprotected anal or vaginal intercourse). These laws were compared relative to each other and to a no-law alternative. The results of these analyses indicate that, under most (though not necessarily all) circumstances, both strict and flexible exposure laws can be expected to reduce HIV transmission risk relative to the no-law alternative, with flexible exposure laws producing the greater reduction in risk. This study demonstrates how logical analysis and mathematical modeling techniques can make an important contribution to the construction of a rational basis for decisions about a highly contested public health policy issue.
Correlation of bone status in mothers and daughters and the improvement of bone status.	Acquiring a higher peak bone mass during puberty reduces the risk of osteoporosis later in life. Peak bone mass is influenced by a variety of genetic and environmental factors. Age-appropriate nutrition and physical education for school-age children is indispensable. In the present study, bone examinations were performed on 1611 female students in junior and senior high school along with their 1376 mothers, and a 5-year follow-up survey was conducted.
A literature review to assess the reliability and validity of measures appropriate for use in research to evaluate the efficacy of a brief harm reduction strategy in reducing cannabis use among people with schizophrenia in acute inpatient settings.	There is a growing body of evidence looking at the effects of cannabis use on those with schizophrenia with concerning results. This has led to the development of a number of interventions that are intended to improve outcomes for this client group. However, the methodological quality of some dual diagnosis research has been questioned in reviews for using outcome measures that are not tested as reliable and valid in the population for which they are intended for use. This literature review assesses the self-report measures that have been reliability and validity tested in populations of people with schizophrenia who use cannabis and reports on their appropriateness for use in further research studies. An overview of the most appropriate biochemical tests for cannabis is also given.
Insulin resistance and parental obesity as predictors to response to therapeutic life style change in obese children and adolescents 10-18 years old.	To study insulin resistance and parental obesity as predictors of improvement in weight status in obese children and adolescents undergoing therapeutic life change intervention (TLC).
Long-term effects of the strong African American families program on youths' conduct problems.	The Strong African American Families program, a universal intervention to deter alcohol use among rural African American preadolescents, was evaluated to determine whether it also prevented conduct problems across the 29 months separating the pretest and long-term follow-up assessments. The program is based on a contextual model in which intervention effects on parental behavior and youth protective factors are hypothesized to lead to behavior changes.
Development and evaluation of single sperm washing for risk reduction in artificial reproductive technology (ART) for extreme oligospermic HIV positive patients.	The serodiscordant couples, where the male is HIV-positive, are treated in fertility clinics, using the sperm washing technique by gradient centrifugation. This protocol cannot be carried out in oligo-azoospermic patients, where spermatozoa retrieval from the epididymis and testis must be performed. We developed a single sperm washing technique, where the spermatozoa, after the retrieval, are washed with the aid of a micromanipulator, to obtain virus decontamination and then used for the intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). The experiment was performed by using sperm samples containing three different viral loads. After one hour of incubation, spermatozoa were taken one by one from the HIV loaded drop and washed in four different microdrops. Before each passage into the next washing drop, the pipette was emptied in a first waste drop and then loaded with new washing medium from a second separate loading drop. After transferring of 10 spermatozoa in these four successive drops, the washing medium and the virus-loaded drops were tested for the HIV RNA presence by the nested RT-PCR technique. The presence of the virus was detected in the waste drop of all three viral loads. The four washing microdrops were each time negative for the presence of HIV-1 RNA, tested by the nested RT-PCR technique. The results show that by rinsing the spermatozoa four times, we are able to diminish the viral load to an undetectable level. Our data demonstrate that single sperm washing can be performed in the cases of extreme male sterility in HIV-positive men. From now on the couples, where the male is oligoazoospermic and HIV positive, could be included in our ICSI program, respecting the usual viral safety level of the ART techniques for the embryo.
Early administration of high-dose antithrombin in severe sepsis: single center results from the KyberSept-trial.	The overall finding in the KyberSept trial of no treatment effect of high-dose antithrombin (AT) in severe sepsis was inconsistent for the primary outcome, 28-day mortality, possibly because of patient heterogeneity. No data have been reported on the effects of AT therapy administered early in severe sepsis when microcirculation is disturbed but irreversible organ damage has not yet developed.
Family history as a risk factor for early-onset stroke/transient ischemic attack among adults in the United States.	Stroke is a major cause of morbidity and death in the United States. We tested the association between familial risk for stroke and prevalence of the disease among US adults and assessed the use of family history of stroke as a risk assessment tool for the disease.
Which college students are at higher health risk?	An electronic health risk appraisal was used to determine which demographic factors were associated with higher health risk among college students at an urban state university. Students' real age was assessed as the primary indicator of health risk and it was associated to demographic characteristics. Real age represents the physiological age of the body based on lifestyle choices, and this is often different to chronological age. Approximately 26.0% of 576 students were more than 5 years older than their chronological age, 29.8% were 0 to 5 years older, 29.8% were 0 to 5 years younger, and 14.1% were more than 5 years younger than their chronological age. Students who were male, Black, and nonnutrition majors had significantly higher positive real age differentials: their bodies were more likely to be more than 5 years older than their chronological age. Students with significantly lower negative real age differential--those whose real age was lower than their chronological age--were female and nutrition majors. Students were significantly more likely to report that they were "very motivated" if they were female (88.6%), compared with male (66.7%). These data suggest that when health disparities are assessed at the level of real age differential and motivation to make lifestyle changes, male Black college students are at highest health risk and they are less likely to be "very motivated" to make lifestyle changes than their peers.
Lay interpersonal sources for health information related to beliefs about the modifiability of cancer risk.	Causal beliefs about cancer may influence preventive behaviors and medical care. We examined the relationship between beliefs about causation for lung, colon, and skin cancer and the use of lay interpersonal sources of health information (community organizations, family, friends).
Food and vessels: the importance of a healthy diet to prevent cardiovascular disease.	We attempted to quantify the burden of cardiovascular disease that can be prevented by broader adherence to recommendations on dietary intake of key nutrients.
Hypertension and its identification among current, past and never smokers in an English population sample.	Clinical guidelines recommend prioritizing efforts to treat hypertension in people with other cardiovascular risk factors, including smoking, but few contemporary data are available on awareness of hypertension among smokers. This study aimed to determine the prevalence of hypertension awareness in hypertensive smokers and its association with receiving and acting on advice to stop smoking.
The physician's role in reducing SIDS.	Despite a sustained public education campaign aimed at reducing the risks of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), it remains one of the leading causes of infant death. This study aims to determine physicians' knowledge of SIDS and whether physicians are discussing how to reduce the risk of SIDS with parents. A cross-sectional survey is sent to 912 pediatricians, family practitioners, and obstetrician-gynecologists in Central New York State. The response rate is 23.5%. Almost all respondents (99.5%) agree that certain measures can be taken to reduce the risks of SIDS, but 30.3% incorrectly state that the safest sleep position is something other than on the back. Although 97.6% agree that it is important to discuss SIDS with parents, 30% admit to not discussing this information. To continue to decrease the SIDS rate, physicians must take responsibility for educating themselves and parents about safe sleep practices and other SIDS risk factors.
Outcomes of national community organization cardiovascular prevention programs for high-risk women.	The purpose of this study was to reduce cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk in women by implementing a cardiovascular prevention health promotion program in faith- and community-based sites. The primary outcomes were reducing obesity and increasing physical activity. A longitudinal cohort of high-risk (age > 40, ethnic minority) women (n = 1,052) was enrolled at 32 sites across the USA. The pre- or post-educational intervention consisted of eight biweekly counseling sessions conducted over 4 months each addressing one of six of the major CVD risk factors (smoking, diabetes, hypertension, cholesterol, obesity, and physical inactivity) as well as signs and symptoms of a heart attack and stroke; plus 4-6 maintenance sessions over three additional months. A multifaceted approach delivered by lay and medically trained personnel involving medical screenings, health behavior counseling, risk behavior modification, and stage of change were determined at baseline and end of counseling or maintenance. Following list-wise deletion, data were analyzed on 423 women who completed all follow-up time-points. Overall, significant improvement was attained in most of 28 secondary outcomes but not in the primary outcomes. Knowledge and awareness of heart disease as the leading killer or women, all of the signs and symptoms of a heart attack, calling 911, and CVD risk factors increased significantly (p < 0.05) by 8.8%, 13.6%, 5.8%, and 10%, respectively. There was a 10% (p < 0.05) increase in participants attaining control for hypertension (blood pressure < 140/90) coupled with a significant reduction in mean blood pressure in the entire cohort. Knowledge of effective CVD risk modification strategies for all CVD risk factors increased significantly (p < 0.05), except for obesity. In addition, there were significant (p < 0.05) increases in forward movement in stage of change for each CVD risk factor (range +10% to +39%). Thus, a heart disease prevention intervention built around a model of community engagement, advocacy, self-efficacy, resource knowledge, and health promotion in faith- and community-based organizations is successful at improving cardiovascular knowledge and awareness outcomes in high-risk women. Limitations of our study include the high dropout rate, significant time demands on site coordinators, limited resources for program implementation, lack of morbidity and mortality endpoints, and failure to attain the primary outcomes of weight loss and physical activity. Future studies should not only assess the effect of community education interventions on lifestyle change and knowledge and awareness of participants but should also address program duration, cost, and resources required to attain improved outcomes.
A systematic review of the association between physical activity and colorectal cancer risk.	This review evaluated the strength of the evidence for a causal relationship between physical activity (PA) and colorectal cancer (CRC). A systematic review of databases through February 2008 was conducted to identify studies that assessed the association between total or recreational PA and incidence or mortality of CRC (including CRC, rectal cancer, colon cancer, and proximal or distal colon cancer). Studies were evaluated for significant associations between PA and risk of CRC endpoints and for evidence of dose-response relationships in the highest quality studies. Twenty cohort studies were evaluated; 11 were high-quality. Fifty percent of all studies and 64% of highest quality studies reported at least one significant association between PA and risk of a CRC endpoint (P<0.05). However, only 28% of all analyses (31% of analyses of highest quality studies) were significant (P<0.05). Only 40% of analyses of highest quality studies resulted in a significant P for trend (P<0.05); however, a non-significant inverse linear association between PA and colon cancer risk was apparent. Heterogeneity in the evidence from all studies and from the highest quality studies was evident. Evidence from cohort studies is not sufficient to claim a convincing relationship exists between PA and CRC risk.
Self-reported compliance to home-based resistance training in cardiac patients.	To retrospectively identify factors influencing long-term compliance to home-based resistance training (RT) in a cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programme.
Reduced risk of myocardial infarction related to active commuting: inflammatory and haemostatic effects are potential major mediating mechanisms.	Regular physical activity is inversely associated with risk of coronary heart disease, but the precise mechanisms remain unclear. Active commuting is an environmental friendly way to achieve the recommended 30 min of daily physical activity. The aim of this study was to explore the relative contribution of markers from different potential mediating pathways on the association between active commuting and risk of myocardial infarction (MI) in a general population.
Design of a family-based lifestyle intervention for youth with type 2 diabetes: the TODAY study.	Type 2 diabetes is associated with obesity and is increasing at an alarming rate in youth. Although weight loss through lifestyle change is one of the primary treatment recommendations for adults with type 2 diabetes, the efficacy of this approach has not been tested with youth. This paper provides a summary of the reviews and meta-analyses of pediatric weight-loss interventions that informed the design and implementation of an intensive, family-based lifestyle weight management program for adolescents with type 2 diabetes and their families developed for the Treatment Options for type 2 Diabetes in Adolescents and Youth (TODAY) study. A total of 1092 youth have been screened, and 704 families have been randomized for inclusion in this 15-center clinical trial sponsored by the National Institutes of Health. The TODAY study is designed to test three approaches (metformin, metformin plus rosiglitazone and metformin plus an intensive lifestyle intervention) to the treatment of a diverse cohort of youth, 10-17 years of age, within 2 years of their diagnosis. The principal goal of the TODAY Lifestyle Program (TLP) is to decrease baseline weight of youth by 7-10% (or the equivalent for children who are growing in height) through changes in eating and physical activity habits, and to sustain these changes through ongoing treatment contact. The TLP is implemented by interventionists called Personal Activity and Nutrition Leaders (PALs) and delivered to youth with type 2 diabetes, and at least one family support person. The TLP provides a model for taking a comprehensive, continuous care approach to the treatment of severe overweight in youth with comorbid medical conditions such as type 2 diabetes.
Endothelial dysfunction in metabolic syndrome: prevalence, pathogenesis and management.	The metabolic syndrome (MetS) is characterized by the presence of central obesity, impaired glucose metabolism, dyslipidemia and hypertension. Several studies showed that MetS is associated with increased risk for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and vascular events. All components of MetS have adverse effects on the endothelium. Endothelial dysfunction plays a role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and might also increase the risk for insulin resistance and T2DM. We review the prevalence and pathogenesis of endothelial dysfunction in MetS. We also discuss the potential effects of lifestyle measures and pharmacological interventions on endothelial function in these patients. It remains to be established whether improving endothelial function in MetS will reduce the risk for T2DM and vascular events.
Letting students be innovative! Using mini-grants to fund student-designed HIV/AIDS education.	This article describes a project designed to use student leaders to increase the awareness of HIV/AIDS among college students. Student organizations apply for a competitive mini-grant that is used to increase their members' knowledge level about HIV/AIDS and increase the likelihood of individuals' practicing behaviors that would reduce the risk of transmission or contraction. Four student organizations receive funds to design a unique HIV/ AIDS prevention intervention that match its members' needs for a total of 126 individuals receiving HIV/AIDS education. An evaluation indicates positive behavioral intentions related to sexual communication and safer sex practices. Moreover, the majority of participants report the education received as relevant and applicable. The methods, intervention applications, and benefits to using an award competition to deliver HIV prevention education to college students in a nontraditional and innovative approach are detailed within this article.
Predictors of the early impairment of renal disease in human obesity.	The mechanisms underlying the association of the increased albumin excretion rate (AER) with adiposity have yet to be clarified. We therefore investigated (1) the predictors of AER after 3 months of lifestyle intervention in a large cohort of nondiabetic obese women and (2) the relationships between AER and the adipose tissue gene expression of adipokines linked to inflammation and insulin resistance.
Bloodborne pathogen risk reduction activities in the body piercing and tattooing industry.	This study examines how well regulations for bloodborne pathogens (BBPs), established primarily to reduce exposure risk for health care workers, are being followed by workers and employers in the tattooing and body piercing industry.
Behavioral impact of graduated driver licensing on teenage driving risk and exposure.	Graduated driver licensing (GDL) is a critical policy tool for potentially improving teenage driving while reducing teen accident exposure. While previous studies demonstrated that GDL reduces teenage involvement in fatal crashes, much remains unanswered. We explore the mechanisms through which GDL influences accident rates as well as its long term effectiveness on teen driving. In particular, we investigate: (1) whether GDL policies improve teenage driving behavior, or simply reduce teenage prevalence on the roads; (2) whether GDL exposed teens become better drivers in later years. We employ a unique data source, the State Data System, which contains all police reported accidents (fatal and non-fatal) during 1990-2005 for 12 states. We estimate a structural model that separately identifies GDL's effect on relative teenage prevalence and relative teenage riskiness. Identification of the model is driven by the relative numbers of crashes between two teenagers, two adults, or a teenager and an adult. We find that the GDL policies reduce the number of 15-17-year-old accidents by limiting the amount of teenage driving rather than by improving teenage driving. This prevalence reduction primarily occurs at night and stricter GDL policies, especially those with night-time driving restrictions, are the most effective. Finally, we find that teen driving quality does not improve ex post GDL exposure.
Secondary prevention through cardiac rehabilitation: from knowledge to implementation. A position paper from the Cardiac Rehabilitation Section of the European Association of Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation.	Increasing awareness of the importance of cardiovascular prevention is not yet matched by the resources and actions within health care systems. Recent publication of the European Commission's European Heart Health Charter in 2008 prompts a review of the role of cardiac rehabilitation (CR) to cardiovascular health outcomes. Secondary prevention through exercise-based CR is the intervention with the best scientific evidence to contribute to decrease morbidity and mortality in coronary artery disease, in particular after myocardial infarction but also incorporating cardiac interventions and chronic stable heart failure. The present position paper aims to provide the practical recommendations on the core components and goals of CR intervention in different cardiovascular conditions, to assist in the design and development of the programmes, and to support healthcare providers, insurers, policy makers and consumers in the recognition of the comprehensive nature of CR. Those charged with responsibility for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease, whether at European, national or individual centre level, need to consider where and how structured programmes of CR can be delivered to all patients eligible. Thus a novel, disease-oriented document has been generated, where all components of CR for cardiovascular conditions have been revised, presenting both well-established and controversial aspects. A general table applicable to all cardiovascular conditions and specific tables for each clinical disease have been created and commented.
Adipokine responses to acute resistance exercise in trained and untrained men.	Adipose tissue-derived hormones act as key mediators that may link active lifestyles to improved cardiovascular function. This study tested the hypothesis that a single weight training session would beneficially modulate adipokine profile in a way that would exert protection against endothelial dysfunction, in trained but not sedentary subjects.
Understanding differences in health behaviors by education.	Using a variety of data sets from two countries, we examine possible explanations for the relationship between education and health behaviors, known as the education gradient. We show that income, health insurance, and family background can account for about 30 percent of the gradient. Knowledge and measures of cognitive ability explain an additional 30 percent. Social networks account for another 10 percent. Our proxies for discounting, risk aversion, or the value of future do not account for any of the education gradient, and neither do personality factors such as a sense of control of oneself or over one's life.
Lifestyle behaviors and receipt of preventive health care services among hypertensive Americans aged 45 years or older in 2007.	OBJECTIVE.: The aim of the study was to explore opportunities for more effective interventions on lifestyle modifications among hypertensives. METHODS.: Using 2007 data from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System from the United States, we assessed the prevalence of various lifestyle behaviors and receipt of preventive health care services among US adults aged 45 years or older based on hypertension and treatment status (n=218,228). RESULTS.: Compared with nonhypertensives, hypertensives were significantly less likely to engage in recommended levels of physical activity and to be more obese regardless of treatment status. Compared to nonhypertensives, hypertensives on medical treatment were less likely to consume five or more servings of fruit and vegetables per day, be current smokers, and binge drinkers. Hypertensives not on medical treatment were more likely to be current smokers, binge and heavy drinkers. Hypertensives on medical treatment were more likely to have routine health checkup, have blood cholesterol checkup within previous 5 years and have a flu shot within the previous year than hypertensives not on treatment. CONCLUSION.: Different patterns of lifestyle behaviors and use of preventive health care services were found based on treatment status among hypertensives. Intervention programs should be tailored accordingly to achieve optimal outcome on lifestyle modification.
Telephone intervention promoting weight-related health behaviors.	Recent national surveys have documented that the majority of adults in the United States do not meet the recommended levels of healthy lifestyle-related behaviors. The Nutrition and Physical Activity (NuPA) study was designed to promote fruit and vegetable consumption, physical activity, and weight management for a working population.
Aortic disease in women]	Abdominal aortic disease in women is associated with atheromatous processes much more often than with inflammatory arterial diseases (such as Takayasu or Horton). Intramural hematomas and atheromatous ulcers of the aorta, albeit rare, affect as many women as men and have variable outcomes: some are resolved with heparin treatment, and others are fatal. Atherosclerotic stenoses and occlusions limited to the level of the aortoiliac bifurcation are increasingly prevalent and difficult to treat in young women, in part because of their addiction to smoking. After being more or less ignored for a long time, the particularity of atheromatous abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) in women is now being recognized. AAA in women are less frequent than in men, but grow faster and have a higher risk of rupture; moreover, cardiovascular disease is generally detected and managed less often in women. Overall mortality from AAA in women is similar to that of breast cancer. The two major risk factors for AAA are, as in men, a direct family history of AAA and smoking. The diagnostic standards for AAA, the criteria for defining progression, and the indications for surgery are probably not the same as in men, and the smaller initial caliber of women's aortas must be taken into account. Most guidelines today recommend ultrasound screening for AAA for women older than 50 years with a family history (in a 1(st)degree relative), women aged 60-75 years who are hypertensive or smoke, and smokers older than 75 years without serious comorbidity and with a life expectancy essentially normal for their age. Monitoring patients with a small AAA (anteroposterior diameter < 40-45 mm) must not be limited only to the aneurysm, but must also include comprehensive management to eliminate modifiable risk factors and thus to reduce cardiovascular and surgical risk (by better preparing the patient for this possibility) as well as to slow the progression of the aneurysm and decrease the risk of its rupture.
Assessing a risk tailored intervention to prevent disabling low back pain--protocol of a cluster randomized controlled trial.	Although most patients with low back pain (LBP) recover within a few weeks a significant proportion has recurrent episodes or will develop chronic low back pain. Several mainly psychosocial risk factors for developing chronic LBP have been identified. However, effects of preventive interventions aiming at behavioural risk factors and unfavourable cognitions have yielded inconsistent results. Risk tailored interventions may provide a cost efficient and effective means to take systematic account of the individual risk factors but evidence is lacking.
Assessment and management of hypertension in children and adolescents.	The epidemic of overweight and obesity in youth is increasing the prevalence of prehypertension and hypertension among children and adolescents. The younger the child is at presentation and the more severe the blood pressure abnormality, the more likely a secondary cause of hypertension is to be present. Measurement of blood pressure in children requires adaptation to the age and size of the child. Interpretation must be related to normative values specific for age, sex, and height. Evaluation is primarily aimed at identifying secondary causes of hypertension, associated comorbidities, additional risk factors, and evidence of target-organ damage. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is emerging as a useful tool for evaluation of some patients, particularly for those with suspected 'white coat' hypertension. Management of prehypertension and hypertension is directed at the underlying cause, exacerbating factors, and the magnitude of the blood pressure abnormality. Healthy behavioral changes are a primary management tool for treating hypertension and, more particularly, prehypertension and for addressing other cardiovascular risk factors, such as obesity. Pharmacological management is reserved for patients with hypertension who do not respond to behavioral changes, have additional cardiovascular risk factors or diabetes, are symptomatic, or have developed target-organ damage.
Sexual partner selection and HIV risk reduction among Black and White men who have sex with men.	We examined differences in sexual partner selection between Black and White men who have sex with men (MSM) to better understand how HIV status of participants' sexual partners and related psychosocial measures influence risk taking among these men.
Work-related musculoskeletal disorders among nurses in Ibadan, South-west Nigeria: a cross-sectional survey.	Musculoskeletal disorders represent a significant occupational problem among nurses; however, data on musculoskeletal health of nurses in Sub-Sahara Africa are sparse. This study sought to determine the lifetime, 12-months period and point prevalence of work-related musculoskeletal disorders (WMSDs); the associated job risk factors and the coping strategies toward reducing the risk among nurses from selected hospitals in Ibadan, South-west Nigeria
Telephone-administered motivational interviewing to reduce risky sexual behavior in HIV-infected rural persons: a pilot randomized clinical trial.	Although several studies have characterized patterns and predictors of continued risky sexual behavior in HIV-infected rural persons, far less research has evaluated interventions to reduce risky sex in this group. This pilot randomized clinical trial compared 2 brief telephone-administered interventions designed to reduce continued risky sexual behaviors in HIV-infected rural persons.
The public minimization of the risks associated with environmental lead exposure and elevated blood lead levels in children, Mount Isa, Queensland, Australia.	This brief communication provides a critical evaluation of environmental lead problems, human health issues, and the minimisation of risks by industry and government authorities in Mount Isa, Queensland. Recent data indicates significantly elevated childhood blood lead levels in Mount Isa, and the evidence suggests health authorities have downplayed the risks of lead exposure in affected children. The minimisation of the risks of environmental lead exposure has led to complacency with respect to its harmful effects on human health. Given that the effects of lead exposure are largely irreversible, there is a strong argument for greater action at a government and industry level around community awareness, early intervention and regulatory controls.
Reappraisal of the European guidelines on hypertension management: the European Society of Hypertension Task Force document: a short review.	The European Society of Hypertension Task Force document on reappraisal of the 2007 European guidelines on hypertension addresses a number of studies published in the last 2 years to estimate their contribution to the expanding knowledge on hypertension. The importance of total cardiovascular risk with inclusion of subclinical cardiac, vascular, and renal organ damage was reemphasized, followed by a critical reappraisal of recommendations for the initiation of antihypertensive drug treatment in patients with high normal blood pressure (BP) and grade 1 hypertension. Whereas there is sufficient evidence for reducing BP below 140/90 mmHg in most hypertensives, the recommendation of previous guidelines to aim at a lower BP in diabetics and in patients at very high cardiovascular risk is not consistently supported by trial evidence. Moreover, the J-curve phenomenon may occur in patients at high cardiovascular risk. With regard to the choice of antihypertensive drugs, the conclusions of the 2007 guidelines that diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, calcium antagonists, angiotensin receptor antagonists, and beta-blockers are suitable for initiation and maintenance of antihypertensive treatment are reinforced. Furthermore, apart from starting with combination therapy in certain conditions, adding a drug from another class to the initially prescribed one is preferred to increasing the dose of the first one. Some of the drug combinations recommended in 2007 are now regarded as more recommendable. In addition to the benefits of antihypertensive treatment in the elderly, the HYVET (Hypertension in the Very Elderly Trial) has shown that antihypertensive treatment also has benefits in octogenarians. The document ends with a number of issues in urgent need to be approached by new trials.
Benefits of moderate weight loss in patients with type 2 diabetes.	Weight loss is a primary goal of therapy in overweight patients with type 2 diabetes. This review examines whether positive patient outcomes are observed even after relatively small amounts of weight loss, that is, weight loss being more easily attainable in practice. Clinical studies demonstrate that therapeutic benefit rises with increasing weight loss, but that losses as low as 0.45-4 kg (1-9 lb) have positive effects on metabolic control, cardiovascular risk factors and mortality rates. Even the intention to lose weight, without significant success, can improve outcomes in patients with diabetes, presumably because of the healthy behaviours associated with the attempt. The current data support a continued focus on weight loss, including moderate weight loss, as a key component of good care for overweight patients with type 2 diabetes.
A review of simple, non-invasive means of assessing peripheral arterial disease and implications for medical management.	Abstract Atherosclerotic peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is highly prevalent in the elderly and subjects with atherosclerotic risk factors such as smoking, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. Importantly, PAD is rarely an isolated condition, but rather a manifestation of systemic atherosclerosis. Hence, there is often coexisting disease in the coronary and cerebral arteries and, consequently, an increased risk of myocardial infarction and stroke. Intermittent claudication is the classic symptom of PAD, yet up to 50% of patients are asymptomatic. Despite the availability of reliable, non-invasive screening tests, PAD is largely underdiagnosed and undertreated, mostly due to the paucity of symptoms and underutilization of screening tools. The ankle-brachial index (ABI), a simple, rapid, and inexpensive diagnostic tool, holds much prognostic value for PAD diagnosis and is ideal for implementation in the primary care physician's office. The early detection of PAD with ABI screening and subsequent medical management represents a critical opportunity to prevent considerable vascular morbidity and mortality. The management of PAD must address claudication symptoms (with cilostazol or pentoxifylline, or in severe cases endovascular or surgical revascularization) and modifiable atherosclerotic risk factors (with an aggressive global risk-reduction regimen involving lifestyle modifications, exercise, smoking cessation, and antiplatelet, lipid-lowering, and antihypertensive therapy).
Breast cancer risk in women: the protective role of pregnancy.	Many countries have experienced a pronounced shift towards later childbearing in recent years. Having children later in life has become a characteristic of contemporary fertility in affluent societies. Childbearing, particularly at a younger age, has been shown consistently to reduce the risk of breast cancer in the long term. Breast cancer constitutes the most common cancer in women and is an important public health concern worldwide. Early age at full-term pregnancy lowers the risk of breast cancer in women, whereas in older women first full-term pregnancy appears to increase the risk. Lactation seems to be relatively important in reducing the risk and abortion is associated neither with increased nor reduced risk. Several hypotheses have been proposed to account for the protective effects of parity. These include an altered systemic hormonal environment and an altered mammary cell fate.
The effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of behavioural interventions for the prevention of sexually transmitted infections in young people aged 13-19: a systematic review and economic evaluation.	To assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of schools-based skills-building behavioural interventions to encourage young people to adopt and maintain safer sexual behaviour and to prevent them from acquiring sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
Epidemiology of hepatitis C and human immunodeficiency virus infections among injecting drug users in Hungary--what's next?]	The prevalence of hepatitis C virus infection (HCV) is currently about 35% among injecting drug users in Budapest, Hungary, and it is under 20% outside of the capital, and no verified case of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) have been detected so far. Mathematical models describe that the co-occurrence of HIV and HCV among injecting drug users is such under an HCV prevalence of about 35% the probability of an HIV epidemic is low, but above this threshold an, HIV epidemic is to be expected. According to these models, there is a looming probability of an HIV epidemic among injecting drug users in Hungary, especially in Budapest. There are four ways to prevent or delay such an epidemic: 1. substitution treatment programs; 2. legal access to injecting equipment; 3. free and confidential HIV and HCV counseling and rapid testing; and 4. hygienic injecting environment. In order to avoid a predicted HIV epidemic, epidemiological pattern of HCV among injecting drug users in Hungary requires both a comprehensive prevention response and the systematic monitoring of the epidemiological situation. The success of the prevention programs depends on two factors: 1. wide access; and 2. regular financial support from the government.
Risk and uncertainty in health investment.	Extending the Grossman (J Polit Econ 80:223-255, 1972) model of health capital into a stochastic one, we analyze how the presence of Knightian uncertainty about the efficacy of health care affects the optimal health investment behavior of individuals. Using Gilboa and Schmeidler's (J Math Econ 18:141-153, 1989) model of max/min expected utility (MMEU) with multiple priors, we show that an agent retains the initial level of health capital if the price of health care lies within a certain range. We also show that the no-investment range expands as the degree of Knightian uncertainty rises.
Awareness of obesity and diabetes: a survey of a subset of British male drivers.	Behavior modification necessary to tackle obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) requires individual awareness of the existing problem.
Older men's experiences of community-based health checks in Knowsley, UK.	A study using both qualitative and quantitative methods was undertaken to examine the impact of community-based health checks on men in Knowsley, UK. The main objective was to understand whether community-based health checks targeted at specific geographical and age groups were an effective way of improving health in men. Interviews were conducted with 50 service users, and a completed postal questionnaire was received from 178 men who had attended during the service's pilot period. Results indicated that men were generally satisfied with both the content and structure of the health checks. Men spoke favourably of the service they had received, particularly in comparison to their previous experiences of primary care. They reported enjoying using a service that allowed them to examine their own health in a comfortable environment. Knowledge was provided to a group whose awareness of health matters was often poor, and the vast majority of men reported making a variety of positive lifestyle changes as a result of attending. Reported improvements to health included giving up smoking, reducing alcohol consumption, increasing exercise and eating more healthily. The study suggests that services of this nature deserve careful consideration by health care professionals and policy-makers.
What are effective strategies to communicate cardiovascular risk information to patients? A systematic review.	To compare different interventions used to communicate cardiovascular risk and assess their impact on patient related outcomes.
Impact of AREDS in a developing country 5 years after publication of the study.	The Age-Related Eye Disease Study (AREDS) is the only large-scale study to demonstrate a reduction in the risk of progression to end-stage age-related macular degeneration (AMD) when vitamin supplementation was given to patients with advanced forms of the disease. Our study assesses the impact of this study on vitamin supplementation in patients with advanced AMD from 5 years before publication of the AREDS results until 5 years after.
Community norms for HIV risk behaviors among men in a South African township.	We investigated alcohol-related sexual risk behavior from the perspective of social norms theory. Adults (N = 895, 62% men) residing in a South African township completed street-intercept surveys that assessed risk and protective behaviors (e.g., multiple partners, drinking before sex, meeting sex partners in shebeens, condom use) and corresponding norms. Men consistently overestimated the actual frequency of risky behaviors, as reported by the sample, and underestimated the frequency of condom use. Relative to actual attitudes, men believed that other men were more approving of risk behavior and less approving of condom use. Both behavioral and attitudinal norms predicted the respondents' self-reported risk behavior. These findings indicate that correcting inaccurate norms in HIV-risk reduction efforts is worthwhile.
Effectiveness of an HIV prevention program for women visiting their incarcerated partners: the HOME Project.	Having an incarcerated partner presents a unique HIV risk for women, particularly low-income women of color. We developed a population-specific risk reduction intervention for women visiting men in prison that was peer educator-based and included individual and community-level intervention components. Women who were assessed prior to the intervention period had a positive association between the number of unprotected penetrative intercourse (UPI) episodes prior to their partners' incarceration and the number of UPI episodes following partners' release from prison. However, this association was negated among women assessed during the intervention. Intervention participants also were more likely to be tested for HIV, to have partners who got tested, and to talk with their partners about significantly more HIV-related topics. Conducting intervention and evaluation activities with women visiting incarcerated men is feasible and is a useful model for reaching more at-risk women.
Infrequent opioid overdose risk reduction behaviours among young adult heroin users in cities with wide coverage of HIV prevention programmes.	Opioid overdose risk reduction behaviours include some preventive behaviours to avoid overdoses (PB) and others to avoid death after overdose, such as never using heroin while alone (NUA). Few studies have examined the prevalence and predictors of these behaviours.
Pedagogy for prisoners: an approach to peer health education for inmates.	There are public health benefits in prisoner health education, given that inmates are predominantly from an underclass that is overrepresented in all categories of disease and health disadvantage. The author reviews these health issues and proposes Freire's approach to education on prisoner-generated, problematic health topics within the context of their lives and cultures. Freirean stages proposed include identification and investigation of relevant health topics of concern to inmates, thematization, problematization of the issues, and development of critical health consciousness, followed by dramatization of problems and solutions within culturally appropriate contexts. Examples are presented. Health rights and responsibilities are discussed in the context of correctional settings and the structural and organizational limits they present for staff and inmates. This approach to prisoner health education should result in increased health literacy and emancipation, which prisoners can later diffuse within their communities of origin.
Addressing cardiovascular risk in patients with type 2 diabetes: focus on primary care.	Type 2 diabetes is a disorder of glucose and lipid metabolism associated with increased risk of macrovascular and microvascular complications. The primary focus of treating type 2 diabetes is glycemic control; simultaneous management of cardiometabolic risk factors, including blood pressure, lipid profile and overweight/obesity, has been shown to improve outcomes. All patients with diabetes require individualized combination therapy including diet and exercise intervention to help prevent microvascular and macrovascular complications. Because primary care physicians in the United States provide the majority of care for patients with type 2 diabetes, this article discusses the management of cardiovascular risk with a specific focus on primary care. In addition, mechanisms by which existing and novel antidiabetes therapies may modulate the metabolic pathways and a review of the benefits of cardiovascular risk reduction using multifactorial, primary care-focused intervention strategies will be discussed. Finally, early- and late-stage disease management strategies are discussed.
HIV intervention for providers study: a randomized controlled trial of a clinician-delivered HIV risk-reduction intervention for HIV-positive people.	Clinician-delivered prevention interventions offer an opportunity to integrate risk-reduction counseling as a routine part of medical care. The HIV Intervention for Providers study, a randomized controlled trial, developed and tested a medical provider HIV prevention training intervention in 4 northern California HIV care clinics. Providers were assigned to either the intervention or control condition (usual care). The intervention arm received a 4-hour training on assessing sexual risk behavior with HIV-positive patients and delivering risk-reduction-oriented prevention messages to patients who reported risk behaviors with HIV-uninfected or unknown-status partners. To compare the efficacy of the intervention versus control on transmission risk behavior, 386 patients of the randomized providers were enrolled. Over six-months of follow-up, patients whose providers were assigned the intervention reported a relative increase in provider-patient discussions of safer sex (OR = 1.49; 95% CI = 1.06 to 2.09), assessment of sexual activity (OR = 1.60; 95% CI = 1.05 to 2.45), and a significant decrease in the number of sexual partners (OR = 0.49, 95% CI = 0.26 to 0.92). These findings show that a brief intervention to train HIV providers to identify risk and provide a prevention message results in increased prevention conversations and significantly reduced the mean number of sexual partners reported by HIV-positive patients.
Cost-effectiveness analysis of interventions to prevent cardiovascular disease in Vietnam.	Vietnam is in the process of an epidemiological transition, with cardiovascular disease (CVD) now ranked as the leading cause of death. The burden of CVD will continue to rise unless effective interventions for addressing its underlying risk factors are put in place.
A practical approach to assess depression risk and to guide risk reduction strategies in later life.	Many factors have been associated with the onset and maintenance of depressive symptoms in later life, although this knowledge is yet to be translated into significant health gains for the population. This study gathered information about common modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors for depression with the aim of developing a practical probabilistic model of depression that can be used to guide risk reduction strategies.
Lifestyle change diminishes a hypertensive response to exercise in type 2 diabetes.	A hypertensive response to exercise (HRE) is common in patients with type 2 diabetes and is associated with increased left ventricular (LV) mass and mortality. This study aimed to determine whether lifestyle modification would improve exercise blood pressure (BP) and reduce LV mass in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Lifestyle intervention leading to moderate weight loss normalizes postprandial triacylglycerolemia despite persisting obesity.	Obesity is associated with impaired postprandial triacylglycerolemia, an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Given that obesity is hard to treat, efforts should focus on treating its comorbidities. We aimed to investigate whether moderate weight loss normalizes postprandial triacylglycerol (TAG) concentrations, in the absence of the acute effects of negative energy balance. For this purpose, postprandial lipemia was investigated in eight obese but otherwise healthy, sedentary men (age: 41.3  4.1 years, BMI: 36.5  1.6 kgm(-2)), once before and again after a 10% weight loss followed by 4 weeks of weight maintenance, and was compared with that of eight age-matched healthy lean men (BMI: 24.7  0.6 kgm(-2)). Dietary intervention consisted of reduced carbohydrate and saturated fat intake and increased monounsaturated fat intake. Obese volunteers were advised to increase physical activity using pedometers to record daily activity. Postprandial triacylglycerolemia after weight loss was reduced by 27-46% (P < 0.05), and became similar to that of lean men despite persisting obesity (BMI after weight loss: 32.9  1.5 kgm(-2)). Reduction in postprandial TAG responses was inversely correlated with the decrease in postprandial insulin sensitivity index (ISI) after weight loss (r = -0.714, P = 0.047). We conclude that moderate weight loss induced by a low-carbohydrate and saturated fat diet and a slight increase in daily physical activity normalizes postprandial triacylglycerolemia in obese men, independently of acute diet-induced negative energy balance, and possibly through enhancement of insulin action.
Smoking, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases in men in the Asia Pacific region.	To assess whether there is a statistical interaction between smoking and diabetes that is related to the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in men in the Asia Pacific region.
Family history of later-onset breast cancer, breast healthy behavior and invasive breast cancer among postmenopausal women: a cohort study.	A family history of later-onset breast cancer (FHLBC) may suggest multi-factorial inheritance of breast cancer risk, including unhealthy lifestyle behaviors that may be shared within families. We assessed whether adherence to lifestyle behaviors recommended for breast cancer prevention--including maintaining a healthful body weight, being physically active and limiting alcohol intake--modifies breast cancer risk attributed to FHLBC in postmenopausal women.
Discussion of sexual risk behavior in HIV care is infrequent and appears ineffectual: a mixed methods study.	Consensus guidelines in HIV care call for clinicians to provide a brief sexual risk behavioral intervention in each visit. Studies based on participant reports find this occurs infrequently, but studies based on direct observation of clinical encounters are lacking. We conducted a mixed method study that used audio recordings of 116 routine outpatient visits by 58 different patients with HIV, in five different practice sites. Transcripts of the visits were coded and analyzed using a quantitative system. In addition, we conducted a qualitative analysis of the dialogue segments in which sexual risk behaviors arose as a topic. Discussion of sexual risk behavior occurred in 10 visits, and was generally quite brief. Two visits featured substantial counseling about sexual risk reduction; two others included substantial discussion which was not evidently directed at the patient's changing behavior. Cues suggesting a need or opportunity for such discussion that physicians did not follow up on occurred in seven additional visits. Interactions about sexual risk had less patient engagement than interactions about other health behaviors. Physicians seldom provide sexual risk reduction counseling in HIV care, even where specific indications are present.
Impact of training for healthcare professionals on how to manage an opioid overdose with naloxone: effective, but dissemination is challenging.	Opioid overdose has a high mortality, but is often reversible with appropriate overdose management and naloxone (opioid antagonist). Training in these skills has been successfully trialled internationally with opioid users themselves. Healthcare professionals working in substance misuse are in a prime position to deliver overdose prevention training to drug users and may themselves witness opioid overdoses. The best method of training dissemination has not been identified. The study assessed post-training change in clinician knowledge for managing an opioid overdose and administering naloxone, evaluated the 'cascade method' for disseminating training, and identified barriers to implementation.
The couple as context: Latino gay male couples and HIV.	HIV-prevention efforts with gay men in relationships frequently omit primary partners. When they are considered, examinations of race/ethnicity are often overlooked despite higher infection rates among gay men of colour. Acknowledging both the need to contextualise the behaviours that may affect HIV risk for gay men of colour and the disproportionate impact of HIV on Latino gay men, the present study utilised semi-structured, qualitative interviews to explore relationship dynamics, sexual agreements and behaviours, safer sex choices and HIV risk among nine Latino gay male couples. All participants were HIV-negative and in concordant negative relationships. Additionally, nearly all reported closed agreements. Analysis revealed participants engaging in four behaviours that may actively reduce their HIV risk: approaching sexual agreements from a practical standpoint, maintaining a high literacy around HIV, having exposure to social support groups for Latino gay men and finding support in their relationship with another Latino gay man. Additional issues are raised where long-term HIV prevention is concerned. Intimate relationships are an important context for understanding both HIV risk and prevention among Latino gay men. Likewise, race/ethnicity provides an indispensable perspective on all research with gay couples. Future prevention efforts with gay men must strive to include both.
Lung-cancer reduction from smoking cessation and radon remediation: a preliminary cost-analysis in Northamptonshire, UK.	Domestic radon levels in parts of the United Kingdom are sufficiently high as to increase the risk of lung-cancer among residents. Public health campaigns in the county of Northamptonshire, a designated radon Affected Area with 6.3% of homes having average radon levels in excess of the UK Action Level of 200 Bq m(-3), have encouraged householders to test for radon and then, if indicated to be necessary, to carry out remediation in their homes. These campaigns have been only partially successful, since to date only 40% of Northamptonshire houses have been tested, and only 15% of those householders finding raised levels have proceeded to remediate. Those who remediate have been shown to have smaller families, to be older, and to include fewer smokers than the average population, suggesting that current strategies to reduce domestic radon exposure are not reaching those most at risk. During 2004-2005, the NHS Stop-Smoking Services in Northamptonshire assisted 2847 smokers to quit to the 4-week stage, the 15% (435) of these 4-week quitters remaining quitters at 1year forming the subjects of a retrospective study considering whether smoking cessation campaigns contribute significantly to radon risk reduction. Quantitative assessment of the risk of lung-cancer among the study population, from knowledge of the individuals' age, gender, and smoking habits, together with the radon levels in their homes, demonstrates that smoking cessation programmes have significant added value in reducing the incidence of lung-cancer in radon Affected Areas, and contribute a substantially greater health benefit at a lower cost than the alternative strategy of reducing radon levels in the smokers' homes, while they remain smokers. Both radon remediation and smoking cessation programmes are very cost effective in Northamptonshire, with smoking cessation being significantly more cost effective, and these are potentially valuable programmes to drive health improvements through promotion of the uptake or environmental management for radon in the home.
Predicting intentions to adopt safe home food handling practices. Applying the theory of planned behavior.	While most home cooks know about safe home food handling procedures, compliance is generally low and has not been much improved by campaigns. Foodborne disease is a common cause of illness, hospitalization and even death, and many of these illnesses are caused by unsafe home food practices. Using the theory of planned behavior as a model, survey data were analyzed. Perceived behavioral control was the strongest predictor of behavioral intentions for both hand washing and food thermometer use. Subjective norm was the next strongest predictor for thermometer use, while attitude towards the behavior was the next strongest predictor for hand washing. This is consistent with earlier focus group results for thermometer use and suggests some possible strategies for designing future home food safety messages.
Participation and cardiovascular risk reduction in a voluntary worksite nutrition and physical activity program.	In a cohort of employees participating in a worksite nutrition and physical activity program, we compared program completion and changes in cardiovascular risk factors by baseline body mass index.
Electronic cigarettes as a harm reduction strategy for tobacco control: a step forward or a repeat of past mistakes?	The issue of harm reduction has long been controversial in the public health practice of tobacco control. Health advocates have been reluctant to endorse a harm reduction approach out of fear that tobacco companies cannot be trusted to produce and market products that will reduce the risks associated with tobacco use. Recently, companies independent of the tobacco industry introduced electronic cigarettes, devices that deliver vaporized nicotine without combusting tobacco. We review the existing evidence on the safety and efficacy of electronic cigarettes. We then revisit the tobacco harm reduction debate, with a focus on these novel products. We conclude that electronic cigarettes show tremendous promise in the fight against tobacco-related morbidity and mortality. By dramatically expanding the potential for harm reduction strategies to achieve substantial health gains, they may fundamentally alter the tobacco harm reduction debate.
Advances in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease among older adults.	This review summarizes recent research on chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) among older adults.
Is prevention a fantasy, or the future of medicine? A panoramic view of recent data, status, and direction in cardiovascular prevention.	Americans are under assault by a fierce epidemic of obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease, of their own doing. Lowered death rates from heart disease and reduced rates of smoking are seriously threatened by the inexorable rise in overweight and obesity. Latest data indicate that 32% of children are overweight or obese, and fewer than 17% exercise sufficiently. Over 68% of adults are overweight, 35% are obese, nearly 40% fulfill criteria for the metabolic syndrome, 8-13% have diabetes, 34% have hypertension, 36% have prehypertension, 29% have prediabetes, 15% of the population with either diabetes, hypertension, or dyslipidemia are undiagnosed, 59% engage in no vigorous activity, and fewer than 5% of the US population qualifies for the American Heart Association (AHA) definition of ideal cardiovascular health. Health, nutrition, and exercise illiteracy is prevalent, while misinformation and unrealistic expectations are the norm. Half of American adults have at least one cardiovascular risk factor. Up to 65% do not have their conventional risk biomarkers under control. Of those patients with multiple risk factors, fewer than 10% have all of them adequately controlled. Even when patients are treated according to evidence-based protocols, about 70% of cardiac events remain unaddressed. Undertreatment is also common. Poor patient adherence, probably well below 50%, adds further difficulty in reducing cardiovascular risk. Available data indicate that only a modest fraction of the total cardiovascular risk burden in the population is actually now being eliminated. A fresh view of these issues, a change in current philosophy, leading to new and different, multimechanistic methods of prevention may be needed. Adherence to published guidelines will improve substantially outcomes in both primary and secondary prevention. Primordial prevention, which does not allow risk values to appear in a population, affords more complete protection than subsequent partial reversal of elevated risk factors or biomarkers. Current evidence supports recent calls for massive educational programs supporting primordial prevention, individual responsibility and pride in achieving population-wide ideal cardiovascular health through lifestyle modification. Environmental and social changes will be necessary, along with major supportive adjustments in the food industry and the assistance of the media. Cooperation is critical to the success of such an initiative.
Dietary prescriptions for the overweight patient: the potential benefits of low-carbohydrate diets in insulin resistance.	Obesity in the USA continues to be a medical problem of epidemic proportions, affecting one-third of American adults. This increase in body weight and body mass index (BMI) is a risk factor for insulin resistance; individuals with insulin resistance are at increased risk for the development of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. The identification of effective dietary treatments (e.g. low-carbohydrate diet, low-fat diet) for patient populations with insulin resistance remains controversial. While a variety of dietary approaches will result in weight and cardiac risk factor reduction, individuals who have been identified as insulin-resistant may derive additional short-term weight loss results from a low-carbohydrate diet compared to a low-fat diet.
Pharmaceutical interventions for obesity: a public health perspective.	The prevalence of obesity, a major risk factor for many chronic diseases, has risen in most developed countries over the past several decades. The economic burden for both public and private health care systems is substantial. Although certain non-pharmaceutical interventions have been proven efficacious in specific populations, the lack of scalability has caused many of these programmes to fail in sustainably decreasing the percent of patients who are overweight or obese. The benefits of other interventions, such as pharmaceutical agents, medical devices and surgery, should therefore be carefully considered: this article focuses on the first of these strategies. Various pharmaceutical products have been plagued with safety concerns or patient non-adherence because of unpleasant side effects. Therefore, the need for additional antiobesity drugs that are both safe and effective is considerable. This article discusses the regulatory landscape for the development of new antiobesity compounds in the United States and Europe and considers the ramifications of greater or lesser regulatory burdens.
Effects of pulmonary rehabilitation on quality of life in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients.	Pulmonary rehabilitation plays a key role in the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Although the American Thoracic Society recently provided a grade of 1A for evidence of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) benefits related to pulmonary rehabilitation, knowledge about the psychological and behavioral processes explaining the impact of pulmonary rehabilitation on HRQoL in COPD patients remains limited. This review describes the state of knowledge over the past year concerning HRQoL benefits after pulmonary rehabilitation and suggests avenues for future research.
Themes in the literature related to cardiovascular disease risk reduction.	This article aimed to identify themes in the literature related to patient-healthcare provider beliefs, barriers to adherence, and interventions pertaining to cardiovascular disease risk reduction.
Effect of automated bio-behavioral feedback on the control of type 1 diabetes.	To test the effect of an automated system providing real-time estimates of HbA(1c), glucose variability, and risk for hypoglycemia.
Pharmacoeconomics in COPD and inappropriateness of diagnostics, management and treatment.	Chronic respiratory disorders (CRDs) concern many people and generate important health and social costs. Their global impact (particularly that of COPD) has been the subject of numerous pharmacoeconomic studies published in recent years. These studies confirm the growing impact of COPD in all countries, in terms of the patient and patient's family, and that of society as a whole. The attitude towards COPD management is still largely inadequate, from prevention to diagnosis to drug and non-pharmacologic long-term treatment. The pulmonary specialist, in cooperation with other health professionals, can play a fundamental role in detecting inappropriateness in the clinical course of COPD and provide the basis for a correct assessment of pharmacoeconomic issues. Given the increasing social impact of COPD, the meeting inspiring this review, "COPD a social disease: inappropriateness and pharmacoeconomics. The role of the specialist: present and future", Venice, Italy, 21-22 April 2010, fits in perfectly with the goals and recommendations of GARD (Global Alliance against chronic Respiratory Diseases) of the WHO. GARD has formulated working recommendations: (i) to develop national programs of prevention and control of CRDs, starting from health education campaigns and better knowledge of epidemiology, impact, and relative risk factors; (ii) to provide training and continuing education on prevention and treatment of CRDs, disseminating the existing guidelines; and (iii) to facilitate access to essential treatments and favour adherence to long-term treatment, including drug treatment and pulmonary rehabilitation, particularly amongst disadvantaged sectors of the population.
A parent-led family-focused treatment program for overweight children aged 5 to 9 years: the PEACH RCT.	To evaluate a healthy lifestyle intervention to reduce adiposity in children aged 5 to 9 years and assess whether adding parenting skills training would enhance this effect.
The ABC's of medical statistics. Reading and understanding clinical trials]	Clinical trials test hypotheses that are accepted or rejected according to a predetermined probability of error (level of significance). Significance does not however mean relevance. Good parameters of relevance are absolute risk reduction and based on this the calculation of the number of patients who need to be treated for one additional patient to benefit. The randomized controlled trial is the gold standard for comparative evaluation of effects. In the ideal scenario it is designed so that a difference established by statistical methods becomes probable. In non-inferiority studies care should be taken that no equivalence is shown but rather that the difference is not greater than a predefined margin of error for differences. Meta-analyses of studies with similar endpoints have the potential to improve the level of evidence. Since the findings of meta-analyses depend on the studies included, critical assessment of the results is essential.
Correlation analysis of sub-health status and health-related risk behaviors in college students]	To study the sub-health status in college students in relation to health-related risk behaviors.
Air travel and venous thromboembolism: minimizing the risk.	For those traveling on long flights, the risk of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, generally referred to as venous thromboembolism (VTE), is real and dangerous if left unrecognized or untreated. The goal of this publication is to provide an overview of how best to prevent VTE during travel, and how to diagnose and treat it.
Development of a fall-risk self-assessment for community-dwelling seniors.	To determine seniors' beliefs about falls and design a fall-risk self-assessment and educational materials to promote early identification of evidence-based fall risks and encourage prevention behaviors.
Lifestyle modification programs protecting cardiovascular health in Germany and Sweden. A qualitative interview study]	A large amount of evidence, including neurohumoral, inflammatory, and metabolic physiological adaptations, emphasize the importance of the individual lifestyle as a public health concern. The related burden of chronic diseases in the European Union, which could be minimized by appropriate lifestyles, requires consistent transfer of evidence-based prevention guidelines. Due to the epidemiologic importance of cardiovascular diseases and innovative health-promoting strategies in Sweden, a comparative analysis between German and Swedish practices preventing cardiovascular events in high-risk populations is presented in this paper. This qualitative analysis demonstrates that lifestyle-related risk and protective factors based on smoking, physical activity, nutrition, and psychosocial determinants are of growing importance in cardiac death prevention. Especially in Sweden, behavioral prevention is joined by condition prevention. In Germany, intersectoral rehabilitation concepts improve patient adherence to behavioral recommendations but interdisciplinary communication between different health experts needs to be improved. The health-promoting hospital composes a health professional's interface, which is based on the understanding that behavioral risk factors are not only highly interrelated, but also require sophisticated healthcare delivery to optimize health management effectiveness.
Accelerometer-determined moderate intensity lifestyle activity and cardiometabolic health.	Objective To assess the relationship between moderate intensity lifestyle activity (LA) and cardiometabolic health using accelerometer data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2005-2006.
The incidence and risk factors for new onset atrial fibrillation in the PROSPER study.	Atrial fibrillation/flutter (AF) is the most common arrhythmia in older people. It associates with reduced exercise capacity, increased risk of stroke, and mortality. We aimed to determine retrospectively whether pravastatin reduces the incidence of AF and whether any electrocardiographic measures or clinical conditions might be risk factors for its development.
Home-based exercise for middle-aged Chinese at diabetic risk: a randomized controlled trial.	To evaluate short- (3 months) and long-term (9 months) effects of home-based exercise on adiponectin, exercise behavior and metabolic risk factors in middle-aged adults at diabetic risk.
Access to blood donation of men who have sex with men and impact on the risk of HIV transmission by transfusion: international overview]	As far back as 1983, in many countries, men who have sex with men were permanently excluded from blood donation because of their high risk of HIV infection. Since the implementation of HIV screening of blood donations in 1985, there has been a remarkable improvement in the viral safety of the blood supply due to improvements in donor selection and continuous progress in screening assays, including nucleic acid amplification testing. Despite, these improvements and the strong pressure of certain associations of the civil society, only few countries reduced the deferral duration for men who have sex with men. Studies that have assessed the impact of a modification of the permanent deferral measure on the HIV residual risk showed that a reduction in the deferral duration generates an additional risk. Even if this risk is tiny, is it acceptable to expose the blood product recipients to an additional risk? Nevertheless, these studies do not take into account an important parameter that is the probable better compliance of men who have sex with men with a temporary exclusion. The most recent studies agree to conclude that an alternative to the permanent exclusion of all men who have sex with men could consist in authorizing the donation from 12-month abstinent men who have sex with men, as some countries did already. This measure would allow covering widely the window period for the men having recently taken risks or for those whose partners would have taken risks, under the essential condition of an improvement of the donor compliance.
Social norms, self-identity, and attention to social comparison information in the context of exercise and healthy diet behavior.	Social norms research has identified a range of distinct norms based on different referent groups that confer influence across a number of behaviors. The current survey study extends social norms research in two ways. First, this research tests the distinctiveness of four types of social norms: distal peer descriptive, distal peer injunctive, proximal peer descriptive, and proximal peer injunctive norms. Second, the current study examines the relationship between social norms and intentions to exercise and maintain a healthy diet, and includes self-identity and attention to social comparison information as moderators of the social norms and intention relationship. Results revealed the distinctiveness of the four types of social norms. Proximal peer descriptive and proximal peer injunctive norms were related to intention to exercise and intention to maintain a healthy diet, while distal peer injunctive norms were related only to intention to have a healthy diet. Additionally, self-identity was a significant moderator. Results are discussed within the context of implications for social norms campaigns.
Computerization of hospital blood banks in France]	In France, most blood products are delivered by the tablissement franais du sang, directly to the recipients, and hospital blood banks deliver a minor part, but are independent from it. However that may be, hospital blood banks are hazardous activities regarding recipients, blood products, blood supply for the hospital and regional blood supply. Because of the high risk level, a computerized information system is compulsory for all hospital blood banks, except for those only devoted to vital emergency transfusion. On the field, integration of computerization in the different processes is very heterogeneous. So it has been decided to publish guidelines for computerizing hospital blood banks information systems and production management. They have been built according to risk assessment and are intended to minimize those risks. The principle is that all acquisition and processing of data about recipients or blood products and tracking, must be fully computerized and that the result of all manual processes must be checked by computer before proceeding to the next step. The guidelines list the different processes and, for each of them, the functions the software must play. All together, they form the basic level all hospital blood banks should reach. Optional functions are listed. Moreover, the guidelines are also aimed at being a common tool for regional health authorities who supervise hospital blood banks.
A feasibility study of a personalised lifestyle programme (HealthForce) for individuals who have participated in cardiovascular risk screening.	To assess the feasibility of a lifestyle intervention, focusing on diet and activity, in adults participating in cardiovascular screening.
Toward risk reduction: predicting the future burden of occupational cancer.	Interventions to reduce cancers related to certain occupations should be evidence-based. The authors have developed a method for forecasting the future burden of occupational cancer to inform strategies for risk reduction. They project risk exposure periods, accounting for cancer latencies of up to 50 years, forward in time to estimate attributable fractions for a series of forecast target years given past and projected exposure trends and under targeted reduction scenarios. Adjustment factors for changes in exposed numbers and levels are applied in estimation intervals within the risk-exposure periods. The authors illustrate the methods by using a range of scenarios for reducing lung cancer due to occupational exposure to respirable crystalline silica. Attributable fractions for lung cancer due to respirable crystalline silica could be potentially reduced from 2.07% in 2010 to nearly 0% by 2060, depending on the timing and success of interventions. Focusing on achieving compliance with current exposure standards in small industries can be more effective than setting standards at a lower level. The method can be used to highlight high-risk carcinogens, industries, and occupations. It is adaptable for other countries and other exposure situations in the general environment and can be extended to include socioeconomic impact assessment.
What counts as reliable evidence for public health policy: the case of circumcision for preventing HIV infection.	There is an ongoing controversy over the relative merits of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and non-randomized observational studies in assessing efficacy and guiding policy. In this paper we examine male circumcision to prevent HIV infection as a case study that can illuminate the appropriate role of different types of evidence for public health interventions.
Diet-quality scores and the risk of type 2 diabetes in men.	To 1) compare associations of diet-quality scores, which were inversely associated with cardiovascular disease, with incident type 2 diabetes and 2) test for differences in absolute-risk reduction across various strata.
Priority actions for the non-communicable disease crisis.	The UN High-Level Meeting on Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) in September, 2011, is an unprecedented opportunity to create a sustained global movement against premature death and preventable morbidity and disability from NCDs, mainly heart disease, stroke, cancer, diabetes, and chronic respiratory disease. The increasing global crisis in NCDs is a barrier to development goals including poverty reduction, health equity, economic stability, and human security. The Lancet NCD Action Group and the NCD Alliance propose five overarching priority actions for the response to the crisis--leadership, prevention, treatment, international cooperation, and monitoring and accountability--and the delivery of five priority interventions--tobacco control, salt reduction, improved diets and physical activity, reduction in hazardous alcohol intake, and essential drugs and technologies. The priority interventions were chosen for their health effects, cost-effectiveness, low costs of implementation, and political and financial feasibility. The most urgent and immediate priority is tobacco control. We propose as a goal for 2040, a world essentially free from tobacco where less than 5% of people use tobacco. Implementation of the priority interventions, at an estimated global commitment of about US$9 billion per year, will bring enormous benefits to social and economic development and to the health sector. If widely adopted, these interventions will achieve the global goal of reducing NCD death rates by 2% per year, averting tens of millions of premature deaths in this decade.
Homocysteine-lowering and cardiovascular disease outcomes in kidney transplant recipients: primary results from the Folic Acid for Vascular Outcome Reduction in Transplantation trial.	Kidney transplant recipients, like other patients with chronic kidney disease, experience excess risk of cardiovascular disease and elevated total homocysteine concentrations. Observational studies of patients with chronic kidney disease suggest increased homocysteine is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. The impact of lowering total homocysteine levels in kidney transplant recipients is unknown.
I will if you will: similarity in married partners' readiness to change health risk behaviors.	Married men and women (N = 1,899 couples) reported readiness to eat a healthier diet, lose weight, and get more exercise (stage of change) and indicated whether they were confident to make these changes (self-efficacy). Husbands' and wives' reports of readiness to change each health behavior were positively associated. Furthermore, women who indicated readiness to eat a healthier diet and get more exercise (contemplation or preparation stages) were less likely to endorse confidence to change when their husbands were in a lower stage than they were relative to those whose husbands shared the same stage of change. Similarly, men who indicated readiness to lose weight were less likely to endorse being confident in their ability to lose weight when their wives were in a lower stage than they were relative to those who shared the same stage. Consideration of interpersonal factors in the behavior change process may enhance behavioral interventions that include married partners together rather than either individual alone.
The acceptability, feasibility, and effectiveness of a population-based intervention to promote youth health: an exploratory study in Goa, India.	To evaluate the acceptability, feasibility, and effectiveness of a population-based intervention to promote health of youth (age: 16-24 years) in Goa.
The impact of inclusion criteria in health economic assessments.	The debate surrounding whether the findings of efficacy studies are applicable to real-world treatment situations is ongoing. The issue of lack of applicability due to a lack of clinical heterogeneity could be addressed by employing less restrictive inclusion criteria. Given that health economic assessments based on cost-effectiveness measures are required by many governments and insurance providers, the impact of this choice may be far reaching. The objective of this article was to explore the use of a pilot study to examine the impact of inclusion criteria on cost-effectiveness results and clinical heterogeneity. A health economic assessment was conducted using QRISK2 and simulation modelling of different population groups within the pilot study in Lower Austria. Patients were referred by their family physicians to 'Active Prevention' (Vorsorge Aktiv), a community-based lifestyle intervention focused on exercise and nutritional programmes. Cardiovascular risk factors were recorded before and after the intervention and translated to cardiovascular events. As expected, enforcing restrictive inclusion criteria produced stronger and more irrefutable computations - in the expected number of events, the number of deaths, the incremental cost per life-year saved and in the 95% confidence interval. These findings provide insight into the issues surrounding clinical heterogeneity and the need for restrictive inclusion criteria. This is not a full health economic assessment of the intervention. While inclusion criteria provide stronger results by limiting populations to those who would benefit the most, they must be enforced, both within and outside the clinical trial setting. Enforcement has costs, both monetary and arising from unintended negative consequences of enforcement mechanisms. All these considerations will affect the results realized by the payer organization. A pilot study can reveal whether an intervention may be cost effective 'enough' without restrictive inclusion criteria and can enable researchers to search for population subgroups in which the intervention remains cost effective. When the pilot study does not indicate sufficiently strong cost-effectiveness results, the broader trade-offs between clinical heterogeneity and the strength of the submission package to the reimbursement agency can be discussed by all parties. Payer concerns about the ability to generalize the results beyond the clinical trial can also be discussed at this time. Applicability then depends on the ability to enforce inclusion criteria similar to those used in the trials in the real world.
Understanding the influence of depression on self-efficacy, work status and condom use among HIV clients in Uganda.	Depression is common among persons living with HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa, yet few studies in the region have assessed the relationship of depression to economic well-being and risk-reduction behavior. Among HIV clients in Uganda, we examined whether depression is directly related to self-efficacy, work status, and condom use, as well as indirectly through its interaction with physical health functioning.
Coping skills training in a telephone health coaching program for youth at risk for type 2 diabetes.	The purpose of this article is to describe components of a health coaching intervention based on coping skills training delivered via telephone. This intervention was provided to urban adolescents at risk for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), reinforcing a school-based curriculum designed to promote a healthy lifestyle and prevent T2DM.
Rural children's exposure to well water contaminants: implications in light of the American Academy of Pediatrics' recent policy statement.	Implementing the recent American Academy of Pediatrics' (AAP) policy for annual well water testing will impact pediatric healthcare providers, who will be called upon for advice regarding testing, interpretation, and mitigation. We report findings from a study of low-income rural families' participation in household well water testing.
Intervention to influence behaviors linked to risk of chronic diseases: a multisite randomized controlled trial with African-American HIV-serodiscordant heterosexual couples.	The high morbidity and mortality in African Americans associated with behavior-linked chronic diseases are well documented.
Management of diabetes mellitus in the elderly.	Description of management of diabetes in elderly.
The cancer is over, now what?: Understanding risk, changing outcomes.	About 26,000 adolescents and young adults ages 15 to 29 years are diagnosed with invasive cancer each year. Although >80% will survive beyond 5 years from their cancer diagnosis, many will develop serious morbidity or die prematurely secondary to health problems in part related to their cancer therapy. This article provides a brief overview of mortality, morbidity, and health status among long-term survivors of adolescent and young adult (AYA) cancer. Four examples were used to illustrate the potential of risk-reducing strategies: breast cancer after chest irradiation, coronary artery disease after chest irradiation, cardiovascular disease in testicular cancer survivors, and the multitude of health problems faced by survivors receiving an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant. A conceptual model for risk-based health care was presented and future directions of the delivery of care for AYA cancer survivors discussed.
Carpal tunnel syndrome.	Carpal tunnel syndrome is the most common entrapment neuropathy, affecting approximately 3 to 6 percent of adults in the general population. Although the cause is not usually determined, it can include trauma, repetitive maneuvers, certain diseases, and pregnancy. Symptoms are related to compression of the median nerve, which results in pain, numbness, and tingling. Physical examination findings, such as hypalgesia, square wrist sign, and a classic or probable pattern on hand symptom diagram, are useful in making the diagnosis. Nerve conduction studies and electromyography can resolve diagnostic uncertainty and can be used to quantify and stratify disease severity. Treatment options are based on disease severity. Six weeks to three months of conservative treatment can be considered in patients with mild disease. Lifestyle modifications, including decreasing repetitive activity and using ergonomic devices, have been traditionally advocated, but have inconsistent evidence to support their effectiveness. Cock-up and neutral wrist splints and oral corticosteroids are considered first-line therapies, with local corticosteroid injections used for refractory symptoms. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, diuretics, and pyridoxine (vitamin B6) have been shown to be no more effective than placebo. Most conservative treatments provide short-term symptom relief, with little evidence supporting long-term benefits. Patients with moderate to severe disease should be considered for surgical evaluation. Open and endoscopic surgical approaches have similar five-year outcomes.
Medical management of stable coronary artery disease.	All patients with stable coronary artery disease require medical therapy to prevent disease progression and recurrent cardiovascular events. Three classes of medication are essential to therapy: lipid-lowering, antihypertensive, and antiplatelet agents. Lipid-lowering therapy is necessary to decrease low-density lipoprotein cholesterol to a target level of less than 100 mg per dL, and physicians should consider a goal of less than 70 mg per dL for very high-risk patients. Statins have demonstrated clear benefits in morbidity and mortality in the secondary prevention of coronary artery disease; other medications that can be used in addition to statins to lower cholesterol include ezetimibe, fibrates, and nicotinic acid. Blood pressure therapy for patients with coronary artery disease should start with beta blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. If these medications are not tolerated, calcium channel blockers or angiotensin receptor blockers are acceptable alternatives. Aspirin is the first-line antiplatelet agent except in patients who have recently had a myocardial infarction or undergone stent placement, in which case clopidogrel is recommended. Anginal symptoms of coronary artery disease can be treated with beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, nitrates, or any combination of these. Familiarity with these medications and with the evidence supporting their use is essential to reducing morbidity and mortality in patients with coronary artery disease.
From substance dependence to addiction: impact of a conceptual shift on therapeutic approaches?	Switching from the concept of substance or alcohol dependence to that of addiction has profoundly modified our ways of approaching, treating and organizing the care of this disease. This more complex and subtle approach gives less importance to the substance and its effects and focuses more on the initiation of pathological behavior. It is important to keep in mind that the addictive process associates a substance (more or less addictive), an individual (more or less vulnerable) and an environment (more or less condoning). Today, it is no longer possible to consider that a drug acts on only one receptor or one system. Current understanding of inner regulation mechanisms integrates the interactions between the various stimulated brain pathways. Addiction treatments which should benefit from advances in genetics, neuropsychology and neuroimaging could be increasingly individualized in the years to come. The "addictology" approach has triggered thinking about other therapeutic approaches such as modification of therapeutic objectives toward "risk reductions" or applying this model to behavioral addictions (food, sex, sport, gaming...). This conceptual shift seems to enrich clinical analysis, the therapeutic possibilities and the avenues for research.
Application of condoms on male clients by female sex workers in Yerevan, Armenia: prevalence and correlates.	This study sought to assess the prevalence of consistent condom application on male clients by female sex workers (FSWs) in Armenia and its association with demographic, psychosocial and behavioural factors. In this cross-sectional study, 120 street-based FSWs aged 20-52 completed an interviewer-administered questionnaire. The primary outcome measure was consistent application of condoms by FSWs on their male clients. A total of 21.7% of participants reported consistently applying condoms on clients. Logistic regression analysis demonstrated that higher condom use self-efficacy (Adjusted Odds Ratio, AOR=1.1; p=0.01), lower perceived condom use barriers (AOR=0.9; p=0.04) and not using douching as a method to prevent STI/HIV (AOR=4.8; p=0.04) significantly predicted consistent condom application. Higher HIV/AIDS knowledge was a marginally significant predictor of condom application (AOR=1.3; p=0.05). Future interventions should address these modifiable factors to encourage FSWs to apply condoms on clients themselves, which may reduce condom failure and exposure to HIV transmission.
Very high childhood obesity prevalence and low adherence rates to the Mediterranean diet in Greek children: the GRECO study.	In order to provide estimates of overweight and obesity among Greek schoolchildren, and the adherence rates to the Mediterranean diet (MD), a nationwide survey was performed among fifth and sixth grade students aged 10-12 years old.
Gender and health lifestyle: an in-depth exploration of self-care activities in later life.	OBJECTIVE. Evaluate similarities and differences in the self-care domain of health lifestyle among older, rural-dwelling women and men.
Male inclusion in randomized controlled trials of lifestyle weight loss interventions.	The prevalence of obesity is similar for men (32.2%) and women (35.5%). It has been assumed that lifestyle weight loss interventions have been developed and tested in predominately female samples, but this has not been systematically investigated. The aim of this review was to investigate total and ethnic male inclusion in randomized controlled trials of lifestyle interventions. PUBMED, MEDLINE, and PSYCHINFO were searched for randomized controlled trials of lifestyle weight loss interventions (N = 244 studies with a total of 95,207 participants) published in the last 10 years (1999-2009). A trial must be in English, included weight loss as an outcome, and tested a dietary, exercise, and/or other behavioral intervention for weight loss. Results revealed samples were on average 27% male vs. 73% female (P < 0.001). Trials recruiting a diseased sample included a larger proportion of males than those not targeting a disease (35% vs. 21%; P < 0.001). About 32% of trials used exclusively female samples, whereas only 5% used exclusively male samples (P < 0.001). No studies in the past 10 years specifically targeted minority males. Ethnic males identified composed 1.8% of total participants in US studies. Only 24% of studies that underrepresented males provided a reason. Males, especially ethnic males, are underrepresented in lifestyle weight loss trials.
The GoodNEWS (Genes, Nutrition, Exercise, Wellness, and Spiritual Growth) Trial: a community-based participatory research (CBPR) trial with African-American church congregations for reducing cardiovascular disease risk factors--recruitment, measurement, and randomization.	Although cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are the leading cause of death among Americans, significant disparities persist in CVD prevalence, morbidity, and mortality based on race and ethnicity. However, few studies have examined risk factor reduction among the poor and ethnic minorities.
The societal benefits of reducing six behavioural risk factors: an economic modelling study from Australia.	A large proportion of disease burden is attributed to behavioural risk factors. However, funding for public health programs in Australia remains limited. Government and non-government organisations are interested in the productivity effects on society from reducing chronic diseases. We aimed to estimate the potential health status and economic benefits to society following a feasible reduction in the prevalence of six behavioural risk factors: tobacco smoking; inadequate fruit and vegetable consumption; high risk alcohol consumption; high body mass index; physical inactivity; and intimate partner violence.
Evaluation of stepping stones as a tool for changing knowledge, attitudes and behaviours associated with gender, relationships and HIV risk in Karnataka, India.	Stepping Stones training aims to help individuals explore sexual relationships and recognize gender inequalities, the structural drivers of the HIV epidemic, in order to understand risk behaviours and to seek solutions to factors that increase HIV vulnerability. Despite earlier studies suggesting the success of Stepping Stones, little data exist to show diffusion to trainees' social networks or the wider community.
Dietary omega-3 fatty acids and the risk for age-related maculopathy: the Alienor Study.	Previous studies have suggested a lower risk for age-related maculopathy (ARM) in subjects with high dietary intake of long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA). The authors report the associations of ARM with past dietary intakes in French elderly subjects.
A cultural adaptation of motivational interviewing to address heavy drinking among Hispanics.	Although the need for cultural adaptations is often noted in addiction research, there are few templates to guide the process. The rationale for a social contextual framework to culturally adapt motivational interviewing for an immigrant heavy drinking Latino population in the U.S. Northeast is presented. The aim of the pilot study was to obtain data on acceptability of this approach. Participant responses to the adaptation were examined qualitatively and quantitatively in a preliminary study. Participants recruited from the community met criteria for risky drinking (men, 5 drinks/occasion or 14 drinks/week; women, 4 drinks/occasion or 7 drinks/week). Participants (n = 25) who completed baseline assessments and a culturally adapted brief motivational interview (CAMI) were asked to complete a qualitative exit interview to give feedback on their interview experience. Participants reported being highly engaged with treatment (M = 3.58 on a scale of 1-4, SD = .50), and felt very satisfied with treatment (M = 3.58 on a scale of 1-4, SD = .93). Nearly all (95%) reported that understanding their culture was important to understanding their drinking behavior. Results support the acceptability and relevance of this adaptation from participants' perspectives.
Moving beyond behaviour: advancing HIV risk prevention epistemologies and interventions (A report on the state of the literature).	This paper is based on an extensive literature review of academic, policy and 'grey' literatures on the intersections of culture and the global HIV/AIDS pandemic commissioned by UNESCO. It highlights that the review exposed a dominant conceptual perspective that poorly captures structures of vulnerability, particularly structures that expose entire populations to risk in relatively uniform ways. Stemming from this, the review revealed a series of specific topical areas in need of further research including masculinities, transactional sex, infrastructural deficits in health and education, fragile states and global governance. For each of these topical areas the authors demonstrate the relationship to the conceptual limitation, summarise relevant research in this area, and provide evidence of applicability to public health interventions. In pursuit of more effective interventions, this paper draws attention to some of the conceptual limitations of current approaches to understanding the pandemic, and calls for interventions that move beyond individual behaviours to address structures that shape individual behaviour and make entire populations more vulnerable to HIV.
Effect of intensive glucose lowering treatment on all cause mortality, cardiovascular death, and microvascular events in type 2 diabetes: meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials.	To determine all cause mortality and deaths from cardiovascular events related to intensive glucose lowering treatment in people with type 2 diabetes.
Circumcision of male children for reduction of future risk for HIV: acceptability among HIV serodiscordant couples in Kampala, Uganda.	The ultimate success of medical male circumcision for HIV prevention may depend on targeting male infants and children as well as adults, in order to maximally reduce new HIV infections into the future.
Implementing cardiovascular risk reduction in patients with cardiovascular disease and diabetes mellitus.	The role of cardiovascular risk reduction in patients with diabetes mellitus is significant as several factors have been found to promote accelerated atherosclerosis in persons with diabetes including hyperglycemia-induced endothelial dysfunction, impaired fibrinolysis, increased platelet aggregation, plaque instability, dysfunctional arterial remodeling, and fibrotic and calcified coronary arteries. Recent attention has focused on identifying a cardiovascular biomarker that would propose a better noninvasive way to detect or visualize subclinical cardiovascular disease and prevent cardiovascular events. This article reviews the use of commonly used cardiovascular risk assessment tools and emerging biomarkers including coronary artery calcium scanning, metabolomics, genomics, and the role of optimal revascularization and risk reduction strategies and their impact on reducing risk in patients with cardiovascular disease and diabetes.
Ongoing clinical trials evaluating the cardiovascular safety and efficacy of therapeutic approaches to diabetes mellitus.	Research has substantiated that patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus are at increased risk for cardiovascular (CV) disease. It is well established that aggressive management of metabolic risk factors is critical to reducing morbidity and mortality in patients with diabetes. A number of clinical trials are currently focusing on evaluating the safety and efficacy of therapeutic approaches to diabetes. These trials will provide additional information on the role of aggressive management of glucose in patients with diabetes and CV risk. This article provides a summary of these ongoing trials, and discusses the impact of glycemic control and strategies to promote CV risk reduction in patients with diabetes.
Fall prevention and monitoring of assisted living patients: an exploratory study of physician perspectives.	Explore physician perspectives on their involvement in fall prevention and monitoring for residential care/assisted living (RC/AL) residents.
Impact of the look AHEAD intervention on NT-pro brain natriuretic peptide in overweight and obese adults with diabetes.	Look AHEAD (Action for Health in Diabetes) is a randomized trial determining whether intensive lifestyle intervention (ILI) aimed at long-term weight loss and increased physical fitness reduces cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in overweight and obese individuals with type 2 diabetes compared to control (diabetes support and education, DSE). We investigated the correlates of N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), a biomarker associated with heart failure (HF) risk, in a subsample from 15 of 16 participating centers and tested the hypothesis that ILI decreased NT-proBNP levels. Baseline and 1-year blood samples were assayed for NT-proBNP in a random sample of 1,500 without, and all 628 with, self-reported baseline CVD (cardiovascular disease) (N = 2,128). Linear models were used to assess relationships that log-transformed NT-proBNP had with CVD risk factors at baseline and that 1-year changes in NT-proBNP had with intervention assignment. At baseline, the mean (s.d.) age, BMI, and hemoglobin A(1c) (HbA(1c)) were 59.6 (6.8) years, 36.0kg/m(2) (5.8), and 7.2% (1.1), respectively. Baseline geometric mean NT-proBNP was not different by condition (ILI 53.3 vs. DSE 51.5, P = 0.45), was not associated with BMI, and was inversely associated with HbA(1c). At 1 year, ILI participants achieved an average weight loss of 8.3% compared to 0.7% in DSE. At 1 year, NT-proBNP levels increased to a greater extent in the intervention arm (ILI +21.3% vs. DSE +14.2%, P = 0.046). The increased NT-proBNP associated with ILI was correlated with changes in HbA(1c), BMI, and body composition. In conclusion, among overweight and obese persons with diabetes, an ILI that reduced weight was associated with an increased NT-proBNP.
A meta-analysis of the efficacy of HIV/AIDS prevention interventions in Asia, 1995-2009.	The HIV/AIDS epidemic continues to grow in pockets across Asia, despite early successes at curtailing its spread in countries like Thailand. Recent evidence documents dramatic increases in incidence among risk groups and, alarmingly, the general population. This meta-analysis summarizes the sexual risk-reduction interventions for the prevention of HIV-infection that have been evaluated in Asia. Sexual risk-reduction outcomes (condom use, number of sexual partners, incident sexually transmitted infections [STI], including HIV) from 46 behavioral intervention studies with a comparison condition and available by August 2010 were included. Overall, behavioral interventions in Asia consistently reduced sexual risk outcomes. Condom use improved when interventions sampled more women, included motivational content, or did not include STI testing and treatment. Incident HIV/STI efficacy improved most when interventions sampled more women, were conducted more recently, or when they included STI counseling and testing. Sexual frequency efficacy improved more in interventions that were conducted in countries with lower human development capacities, when younger individuals were sampled, or when condom skills training was included. Behavioral interventions for reducing sexual risk in Asia are efficacious; yet, the magnitude of the effects co-varies with specific intervention and structural components. The impact of structural factors on HIV intervention efficacy must be considered when implementing and evaluating behavioral interventions. Implications and recommendations for HIV/AIDS interventions are discussed.
One-year results of the Think Health! study of weight management in primary care practices.	The Think Health! study evaluated a behavioral weight loss program adapted from the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) lifestyle intervention to assist primary care providers (PCPs) and auxiliary staff acting as lifestyle coaches (LCs) in offering weight loss counseling to their patients. In a randomized trial conducted at five clinical sites, study participants were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio within each site to either "Basic Plus" (n = 137), which offered PCP counseling every 4 months plus monthly LC visits during the first year of treatment, or "Basic" (n = 124), which offered only PCP counseling every 4 months. Participants were primarily (84%) female, 65% African American, 16% Hispanic American, and 19% white. In the 72% of participants in each treatment group with a 12-month weight measurement, mean (95% CI) 1-year weight changes (kg) were -1.61 (-2.68, -0.53) in Basic Plus and -0.62 (-1.45, 0.20) in Basic (difference: 0.98 (-0.36, 2.33); P = 0.15). Results were similar in model-based estimates using all available weight data for randomized participants, adjusting for potential confounders. More Basic Plus (22.5%) than Basic (10.2%) participants lost  5% of their baseline weight (P = 0.022). In a descriptive, nonrandomized analysis that also considered incomplete visit attendance, mean weight change was -3.3 kg in Basic Plus participants who attended  5 LC visits vs. + 0.53 kg in those attending <5 LC visits. We conclude that the Basic Plus approach of moderate-intensity counseling by PCPs and their staff can facilitate modest weight loss, with clinically significant weight loss in high program attenders.
Practical questions around individual with a pacemaker or an implantable cardioverter defibrillator]	An individual with a pacemaker can ask his GP for information about potential problems associated with the device. Should a pacemaker continue to be used by end-of-life patients? Should a pacemaker be stopped in a limited care situation? What precautions should be taken when treating a patient with a pacemaker? Pacemakers and implantable defibrillators are sensitive to electromagnetic interference (EMI). Medically, MRIs are theoretically contraindicated, even though examinations could be performed without a major problem, and special precautions should be taken when using an electrosurgical cutter or radiotherapy. In case of death, a doctor or embalmer must remove the patient's pacemaker due to its risk of explosion during cremation. Doctors who sign cremation forms have a legal obligation to provide such information. It may affect an employee's ability to work. Are there some professions that are not well suited for individuals with a pacemaker?
Cost and clinical implications of diabetes prevention in an Australian setting: a long-term modeling analysis.	Metformin and intensive lifestyle changes (ILC) reduced the incidence of type 2 diabetes (T2D) versus standard care (control) in overweight or obese subjects with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) in the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) trial and Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study (DPPOS). We projected lifetime clinical and economic outcomes based on the results from the DPP+DPPOS, from a 3rd-party payer perspective in Australia.
Mass media information and adherence to Mediterranean diet: results from the Moli-sani study.	To investigate the association between mass media information, dietary habits and risk factors for cardiovascular disease in an Italian adult population.
Physical activity and all-cause mortality in older women and men.	Regular physical activity is associated with reduced risk of mortality in middle-aged adults; however, associations between physical activity and mortality in older people have been less well studied. The objective of this study was to compare relationships between physical activity and mortality in older women and men.
Systematic review of effective strategies for reducing screen time among young children.	Screen-media use among young children is highly prevalent, disproportionately high among children from lower-income families and racial/ethnic minorities, and may have adverse effects on obesity risk. Few systematic reviews have examined early intervention strategies to limit TV or total screen time; none have examined strategies to discourage parents from putting TVs in their children's bedrooms or remove TVs if they are already there. In order to identify strategies to reduce TV viewing or total screen time among children <12 years of age, we conducted a systematic review of seven electronic databases to June 2011, using the terms "intervention" and "television," "media," or "screen time." Peer-reviewed intervention studies that reported frequencies of TV viewing or screen-media use in children under age 12 were eligible for inclusion. We identified 144 studies; 47 met our inclusion criteria. Twenty-nine achieved significant reductions in TV viewing or screen-media use. Studies utilizing electronic TV monitoring devices, contingent feedback systems, and clinic-based counseling were most effective. While studies have reduced screen-media use in children, there are several research gaps, including a relative paucity of studies targeting young children (n = 13) or minorities (n = 14), limited long-term (>6 month) follow-up data (n = 5), and few (n = 4) targeting removing TVs from children's bedrooms. Attention to these issues may help increase the effectiveness of existing strategies for screen time reduction and extend them to different populations.
Measuring risk online--feasibility of using FINDRISC in an online workplace survey.	With the globally increasing prevalence of diabetes and the knowledge on how to prevent the disease there is a high demand for an effective way of identifying people at risk. The hypothesis behind this investigation was that incorporation of the FINnish Diabetes Risk SCore (FINDRISC) questionnaire in a regular workplace survey would be a feasible way to identify individuals and groups at risk for diabetes that could benefit from preventive interventions.
Awareness of diabetes risks is associated with healthy lifestyle behavior in diabetes free American adults: evidence from a nationally representative sample.	The purpose of this study was to examine whether diabetes free healthy non-Hispanic Whites (NHW), non-Hispanic Blacks (NHB), and Mexican-Americans (MA) who are told of their diabetes risk were more likely to adopt healthy lifestyle behavior defined as current weight control, physical activity and reduced fat/calories intake than those who were not told that they were at increased risk.
Visceral and not subcutaneous abdominal adiposity reduction drives the benefits of a 1-year lifestyle modification program.	Excess visceral adipose tissue (VAT) is associated with an increased cardiometabolic risk. The study examined whether changes in cardiometabolic risk markers after a 1-year lifestyle intervention in viscerally obese men were associated with changes in VAT or with changes in subcutaneous abdominal adipose tissue (SAT). The relative contributions of changes in global adiposity vs. changes in cardiorespiratory fitness to changes in VAT were also quantified. One hundred and forty four men were selected on the basis of an increased waist circumference ( 90 cm) associated with dyslipidemia (triglycerides  1.69 and/or high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol <1.03 mmol/l); 117 men completed the 1-year intervention which consisted in a healthy eating, physical activity/exercise program. Body weight, body composition, and fat distribution were assessed by anthropometry and dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA)/computed tomography. Cardiorespiratory fitness, plasma adipokine/inflammatory markers, fasting lipoprotein-lipid profile, and oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) were assessed. VAT volume decreased by 26%, cardiorespiratory fitness improved by 20% (P < 0.0001) after 1 year. Plasma adipokine/inflammatory markers, lipids/lipoproteins, and glucose homeostasis were improved. One-year changes in triglyceride (r = 0.29), apolipoprotein B (r = 0.21), 120-min OGTT-glucose (r = 0.27), and fasting insulin (r = 0.27) levels correlated with changes in VAT (all P < 0.05) after adjustment for changes in SAT. Using a multilinear regression model, VAT reduction was independently associated with SAT reduction and with improvement in cardiorespiratory fitness (R(2) = 0.58, P < 0.0001). Therefore, this healthy eating-physical activity/exercise program improved the cardiometabolic risk profile of viscerally obese men in relation to the reduction of VAT. Furthermore, the reduction in VAT was independently related to the reduction in global adiposity and to the improvement in cardiorespiratory fitness.
Effectiveness of interventions for reducing diabetes and cardiovascular disease risk in people with metabolic syndrome: systematic review and mixed treatment comparison meta-analysis.	To review the evidence on interventions for reversing metabolic syndrome or preventing development of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease in people with metabolic syndrome.
Occupational health care identifies risk for type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease.	To assess the risk for type 2 diabetes (T2D) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) among employees of a Finnish airline; to study the association of shift work with T2D and CVD risk; and to test the feasibility of risk screening in occupational health care setting.
Scaling and root planing treatment for periodontitis to reduce preterm birth and low birth weight: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.	The aim of this study is to perform an updated systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the efficacy of scaling and root planing (SRP) in reducing the preterm-birth and low-birth-weight risks to analyze important subgroups and to further explore heterogeneity and bias risks in the pooled studies.
Risk reduction and drug use in detention: study about the detainees of Liancourt Penitentiary]	The prison population is drug users. Recent debates around the provision of devices to reduce the risks associated with drug use (syringe exchange programs and snort kit) lead us to question local practices of the prison population.
Design and rationale of a randomized controlled trial to reduce cardiovascular disease risk for patients with bipolar disorder.	Persons with bipolar disorder (BD) experience a disproportionate burden of medical comorbidity, notably cardiovascular disease (CVD), contributing to decreased function and premature mortality. We describe the design, rationale, and baseline findings for the Self-Management Addressing Heart Risk Trial (SMAHRT), a randomized controlled effectiveness trial of an intervention (Life Goals Collaborative Care; LGCC) designed to reduce CVD risk factors and improve physical and mental health outcomes in patients with BD.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a nutritional approach.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is among the most common causes of chronic liver disease in many countries, and its prevalence is increasing. NAFLD is often considered to be a hepatic component of metabolic syndrome, and studies have established that insulin resistance plays a major role in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. Treatments for NAFLD primarily target insulin resistance. Interestingly, the most common environmental cause of insulin resistance is diet. This article examines the correlations between NAFLD and diet and provides some diet recommendations based on the most current data available.
Cyclists' helmet usage and characteristics in central and southern Malawi: a cross-sectional study.	The objective of this study was to determine the prevalence of, and factors associated with, bicycle helmet usage in southern and central Malawi. This study was across-sectional observation of public behaviour. The urban and rural roadways in southern and central Malawi were studied during the dry season. In total, 1900 bicyclists were observed along the roadways of southern and central Malawi over a four-day period. Observer ascertainment of cyclists' helmet status, approximate age, sex and bicycle operator or passenger status were measured. Of the 1900 cyclists observed, no cyclist was identified as wearing a helmet (exact 95% CI: 0.0-0.2%). There was no variation by age, sex or operator/passenger status. Nearly, 91.5% of observed cyclists were males and 87.7% were operating the bicycle. The sizeable majority of male cyclists were classified as young adults from adolescence to 25 years old (47.2%) or adults over age 25 (44.9%); 7.9% of male cyclists were pre-adolescent. Passengers were more likely to be female than operators (39.1% versus 4.2%), though, even for passengers, a higher proportion were males than females (p < 0.001). In Malawi, helmet usage is so rare as to be non-existent. This suggests an opportunity for significant improvement. Based on the observed cyclists' characteristics, interventions should be targeted to adult and young adult males.
Male perpetrators, the gender symmetry debate, and the rejection-abuse cycle: implications for treatment.	This review article examined the gender symmetry debate in light of recent research relating to the feminist and family research perspectives on intimate partner violence, providing a context for rethinking perpetrator programs. The concept of coercive control is considered as an explanatory factor in an attempt to integrate the feminist and family research perspectives. The limited effectiveness of perpetrator programs is examined. Research highlighting potential factors that could improve the effectiveness of perpetrator programs is introduced, followed by a discussion of the rejection-abuse cycle, one attempt to incorporate current research into a more inclusive program. The rejection-abuse cycle identifies a pattern of perpetrator behavior, which links rejection, threat to self, defense against threat, and abuse. Finally, suggestions for changing perpetrator programs are elaborated, incorporating past research, which would make them appropriate for both male and female perpetrators. These implications are contextualized within a meta-theory to provide greater clarity for the development of future perpetrator programs.
Stroke Health and Risk Education (SHARE): design, methods, and theoretical basis.	Stroke is a disease with tremendous individual, family, and societal impact across all race/ethnic groups. Mexican Americans, the largest subgroup of Hispanic Americans, are at even higher risk of stroke than European Americans.
Randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial of lorcaserin for weight loss in type 2 diabetes mellitus: the BLOOM-DM study.	The BLOOM-DM (Behavioral Modification and Lorcaserin for Obesity and Overweight Management in Diabetes Mellitus) study evaluated efficacy and safety of lorcaserin for weight loss in patients with type 2 diabetes. Secondary objectives included evaluations of glycemic control, lipids, blood pressure, and quality of life. This 1-year, randomized, placebo-controlled trial enrolled 604 patients 1:1:1 to placebo, lorcaserin 10 mg once daily (QD) or lorcaserin 10 mg twice daily (BID). Patients were treated with metformin, a sulfonylurea (SFU) or both; had glycated hemoglobin (HbA(1c)) 7-10%; were 18-65 years old; and had BMI 27-45 kg/m(2). Patients received diet and exercise counseling. Safety monitoring included serial echocardiograms. Mean ( SD) age was 52.7  8.7; 54.2% were women; 60.5% were white, 20.9% were African American, and 13.8% were Hispanic. Mean ( SD) weight was 103.6  17.8 kg; BMI was 36.0  4.5 kg/m(2). Most patients (91.7%) took metformin; 50.2% took a SFU. More patients lost 5% body weight with lorcaserin BID (37.5%; P < 0.001) or lorcaserin QD (44.7%; P < 0.001) vs. placebo (16.1%; modified intent to treat (MITT)/last observation carried forward (LOCF)). Least square mean ( SEM) weight change was -4.5  0.35% with lorcaserin BID and -5.0  0.5% with lorcaserin QD vs. -1.5  0.36% with placebo (P < 0.001 for each). HbA(1c) decreased 0.9  0.06 with lorcaserin BID, 1.0  0.09 with lorcaserin QD, and 0.4  0.06 with placebo (P < 0.001 for each); fasting glucose decreased 27.4  2.5 mg/dl, -28.4  3.8 mg/dl, and 11.9  2.5 mg/dl, respectively (P < 0.001 for each). Symptomatic hypoglycemia occurred in 7.4% of patients on lorcaserin BID, 10.5% on lorcaserin QD, and 6.3% on placebo. Common adverse events were headache, back pain, nasopharyngitis, and nausea. Lorcaserin was associated with significant weight loss and improvement in glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Children, parents, and pets exercising together (CPET) randomised controlled trial: study rationale, design, and methods.	Objectively measured physical activity is low in British children, and declines as childhood progresses. Observational studies suggest that dog-walking might be a useful approach to physical activity promotion in children and adults, but there are no published public health interventions based on dog-walking with children. The Children, Parents, and Pets Exercising Together Study aims to develop and evaluate a theory driven, generalisable, family-based, dog walking intervention for 9-11 year olds.
A role for depression in sexual risk reduction for women? A meta-analysis of HIV prevention trials with depression outcomes.	Rates of HIV/AIDS and depression in women are significant public health concerns. The current meta-analysis tested the hypothesis that depression levels moderate change in sexual risk behavior in women participating in HIV prevention interventions. Features of the interventions were also explored as possible factors in decreasing levels of depression and sexual risk behavior. Included were HIV primary prevention interventions that measured sexual risk behavior and depression at baseline and follow-up and reported separate results for women. Ten studies (fourteen intervention groups and ten control groups; N = 4,195 women) met the inclusion criteria. The majority of participants were African American; mean age was 28-years old. Both depression and sexual risk behavior decreased significantly in treatment and control groups from baseline to follow-up. Sexual risk decreased more to the extent that interventions sampled (a) participants with higher baseline levels of depression, (b) older women, (c) Hispanics/Latinas, and/or (d) members of risk groups (e.g., drug users, homeless). Interventions that included (e) condom provision, (f) information about condoms, and/or (g) HIV counseling and testing were also more successful in decreasing sexual risk. Finally (h), interventions were more likely to reduce sexual risk behavior when they decreased depression to a large extent relative to baseline levels. Interventions were more likely to decrease depression when they (a) had samples of only women, (b) targeted risk groups, and/or (c) provided self-management and coping skills. Reducing depression appears to play a role in decreasing sexual risk behavior, suggesting that interventions should actively address depression.
Review of services provided by pharmacies that promote healthy living.	The recognition that community pharmacies have the potential to make a greater contribution to promoting public health has led to a new concept, called the Healthy Living Pharmacy (HLP). These are designed to meet public health needs through a tiered commissioning framework delivering health and well being services through community pharmacy, tailored to local requirements for tackling health inequalities.
Ethical dilemmas in social work practice with disabled people: the use of physical restraint.	This article discusses the use of restraint with disabled adults and children and uses a case study of one particular child to explore issues related to the use of restraint, including the consent of the person subjected to restraint, their human rights, and the balancing of these rights with the need to reduce the risk of harm. The case study involves a young woman who requested to be restrained in a particular way and the challenges this posed to the staff caring for her. The article concludes that in many complex situations there is no clearly right approach to take, and each situation involving restraint must be considered on an individual case-by-case basis.
A school-based comprehensive lifestyle intervention among chinese kids against obesity (CLICK-Obesity): rationale, design and methodology of a randomized controlled trial in Nanjing city, China.	The prevalence of childhood obesity among adolescents has been rapidly rising in Mainland China in recent decades, especially in urban and rich areas. There is an urgent need to develop effective interventions to prevent childhood obesity. Limited data regarding adolescent overweight prevention in China are available. Thus, we developed a school-based intervention with the aim of reducing excess body weight in children. This report described the study design.
Prevention by physical activity. The relevance of physical fitness]	Regular physical activity is now recognized as an important and very effective step to prevent many diseases, especially those of the cardiovascular system. Many studies within the last 20years have also shown that exercise capacity or fitness is an important prognostic factor in healthy subjects and patients with cardiovascular diseases for both mortality and morbidity. Physical fitness, which is mainly determined by regular physical activity or training, can be analyzed by maximal exercise testing using the treadmill or cycle ergometry. In addition, fitness is also based on genetic factors. There are some methodological criticisms concerning self-reported questionnaires of physical activity, MET (metabolic equivalent) calculations and exhaustion during maximal voluntary stress testing. However, the results of both approaches are valid and reliable for daily use. Accordingly, every physician regardless of his or her discipline should encourage all patients at every visit to follow a healthy lifestyle, including regular exercise and physical activity. This also applies to older patients, who especially benefit from exercise and physical activity.
Effective secondary prevention through cardiac rehabilitation after coronary revascularization and predictors of poor adherence to lifestyle modification and medication. Results of the ICAROS Survey.	Secondary prevention is a priority after coronary revascularization. We investigate the impact of a cardiac rehabilitation (CR) program on lifestyle, risk factors and medication modifications and analyze predictors of poor behavioral changes and events in patients after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) or percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
Development of a set of mobile phone text messages designed for prevention of recurrent cardiovascular events.	Supporting lifestyle change is an effective way of preventing recurrent events in people with cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, there is a need to develop innovative strategies that increase access to programmes for individuals at high risk of CVD. This study aimed to develop a bank of text messages designed to provide advice, motivation, and support for decreasing cardiovascular risk.
Keeping the faith: African American faith leaders' perspectives and recommendations for reducing racial disparities in HIV/AIDS infection.	In Philadelphia, 66% of new HIV infections are among African Americans and 2% of African Americans are living with HIV. The city of Philadelphia has among the largest numbers of faith institutions of any city in the country. Although faith-based institutions play an important role in the African American community, their response to the AIDS epidemic has historically been lacking. We convened 38 of Philadelphia's most influential African American faith leaders for in-depth interviews and focus groups examining the role of faith-based institutions in HIV prevention. Participants were asked to comment on barriers to engaging faith-based leaders in HIV prevention and were asked to provide normative recommendations for how African American faith institutions can enhance HIV/AIDS prevention and reduce racial disparities in HIV infection. Many faith leaders cited lack of knowledge about Philadelphia's racial disparities in HIV infection as a common reason for not previously engaging in HIV programs; others noted their congregations' existing HIV prevention and outreach programs and shared lessons learned. Barriers to engaging the faith community in HIV prevention included: concerns about tacitly endorsing extramarital sex by promoting condom use, lack of educational information appropriate for a faith-based audience, and fear of losing congregants and revenue as a result of discussing human sexuality and HIV/AIDS from the pulpit. However, many leaders expressed a moral imperative to respond to the AIDS epidemic, and believed clergy should play a greater role in HIV prevention. Many participants noted that controversy surrounding homosexuality has historically divided the faith community and prohibited an appropriate response to the epidemic; many expressed interest in balancing traditional theology with practical public health approaches to HIV prevention. Leaders suggested the faith community should: promote HIV testing, including during or after worship services and in clinical settings; integrate HIV/AIDS topics into health messaging and sermons; couch HIV/AIDS in social justice, human rights and public health language rather than in sexual risk behavior terms; embrace diverse approaches to HIV prevention in their houses of worship; conduct community outreach and host educational sessions for youth; and collaborate on a citywide, interfaith HIV testing and prevention campaign to combat stigma and raise awareness about the African American epidemic. Many African American faith-based leaders are poised to address racial disparities in HIV infection. HIV prevention campaigns should integrate leaders' recommendations for tailoring HIV prevention for a faith-based audience.
Cost effectiveness of peer support for type 2 diabetes.	The aim of this study is to examine the cost-effectiveness of a group-based peer support intervention in general practice for patients with type 2 diabetes.
How much are we willing to pay to prevent a fall? Cost-effectiveness of a multifactorial falls prevention program for community-dwelling older adults.	This study examined the cost-effectiveness of a multifactorial falls prevention program and estimated the trade-off between the extra costs of such a program and the additional reduction of unintentional falls. Cost-effectiveness was evaluated using the traditional incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and the net benefit regression framework (NBRF). Using the NBRF, decision making was formalized by incorporating values of willingness to pay (WTP) a priori. The results failed to provide evidence that a multifactorial falls prevention program was cost-effective. Participant adherence to recommendations ranged from low (41.3%), to moderate (21.1%), to high (37.6%). A future challenge is to understand more clearly the relationship between the community-dwelling older adult, potentially modifiable risks for falls, adherence to multifactorial risk factor recommendations, costs, and resulting effects of falls prevention practices. Future economic evaluations of falls prevention interventions remain necessary and should consider the NBRF so that regression tools can facilitate cost-effectiveness analysis.
Behavior change counseling curricula for medical trainees:  a systematic review.	Unhealthy behaviors contribute to half of U.S. deaths. However, physicians lack sufficient skill in counseling patients to change behaviors. Characterizing effective published curricular interventions for behavior change counseling for medical trainees would inform educators toward improved training.
Role and management of coagulation disorders in peripheral arterial disease.	Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) has often underlying risk factors, of which diabetes and cigarette smoking are the most common. Enhanced platelet activation and interaction with vessel wall associate with atherothrombotic disease, but also increased fibrinogen levels, thrombin generation and fibrin turnover are typical for PAD. The pathogenic role of fibrinogen, thrombin formation and fibrin degradation is suggested not only in acute thrombotic complications, but also in the stable form of PAD, where these markers associate with the functional severity (ankle-brachial blood pressure index). The coagulation-specific etiologies of PAD should be suspected if the atherothrombotic disease has severe manifestations, especially while the traditional risk factors are absent, or if the patient has also a history of venous thromboembolism. Malignant disease may be present in form of peripheral arterial thrombosis as well. Thrombophilia may expose patients to idiopathic thrombosis--both spontaneously and after vascular interventions. The management of these patients includes often combination therapies with antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. Obviously, the strict policy to avoid risk factors and to treat them well in avoidance of progression of arterial disease is highly important. In the absence of published follow-up data the evidence to support the management strategies is weak and individual tailoring of efficacious and safe antithrombotic drug therapy remains our challenge. These patients benefit from continuous medical attention by the experts in the field of angiology. Management of PAD is an excellent example of the multidisciplinary approach where the hematologist meets the vascular surgeon or interventional radiologist to secure the best available patient care.
Outcomes from a medical weight loss program: primary care clinics versus weight loss clinics.	Few studies have focused on weight loss programs implemented in community-based primary care settings. The objective of this analysis was to evaluate the effectiveness of a weight loss program and determine whether physicians in primary care practices could achieve reductions in body weight and body fat similar to those obtained in weight loss clinics.
Exercise and physical activity in the therapy of substance use disorders.	Exercise and physical activity are constantly gaining attention as adjuvant treatment for substance use disorders, supplementing classical pharmacological and psychotherapeutic approaches. The present work reviews studies addressing the therapeutic effects of exercise in alcohol abuse/dependence, nicotine abuse/dependence, and illicit drug abuse/dependence. In the field of smoking cessation, evidence is strong for exercise as an effective adjuvant treatment, whereas no generalizable and methodologically strong studies have been published for alcohol and drug treatment so far, allowing only preliminary conclusions about the effectiveness of exercise in these disorders. A couple of potential mechanisms are discussed, by which exercise may act as an effective treatment, as well as future directions for studies investigating exercise as a treatment strategy for substance use disorders.
Successful outcome of an integrated strategy for the reduction of schistosomiasis transmission in an endemically complex area.	Schistosomiasis is one of the major public health problems in the People's Republic of China (and elsewhere), seriously threatening health as well as social and economic development. An integrated control strategy, emphasising transmission control but also aimed at reducing greenhouse gases, was carried out in Jiangling county, Hubei province from 2007 to 2009. Three villages were chosen for a pilot study involving removal of cattle from neighbouring, snail-infested grasslands, improving sanitation and construction of units for household biogas production in addition to routine control measures. Both prevalence and intensity of infection in the snails in the neighbourhood were greatly reduced after two years of implementation, while the prevalence of schistosomiasis in humans in the three villages had been reduced by 29%, 34% and 24%, respectively. The removal of cattle and construction of biogas production units had an additional positive effect in that the annual, average emission of greenhouse gases such as methane (CH4) and carbon dioxide (CO2) were reduced by an estimated 7.8 and 80.2 tons, respectively.
Which providers can bridge the health literacy gap in lifestyle risk factor modification education: a systematic review and narrative synthesis.	People with low health literacy may not have the capacity to self-manage their health and prevent the development of chronic disease through lifestyle risk factor modification. The aim of this narrative synthesis is to determine the effectiveness of primary healthcare providers in developing health literacy of patients to make SNAPW (smoking, nutrition, alcohol, physical activity and weight) lifestyle changes.
Culturally tailored health camps and cardiovascular risk among South Asian immigrants.	South Asians have a high prevalence and early age of onset of diabetes, metabolic syndrome, and cardiovascular disease (CVD). We assess the potential of a culturally responsive intervention, health camps, to identify and inform U.S. South Asian community members at risk for CVD.
Cardiovascular disease and oral agent glucose-lowering therapies in the management of type 2 diabetes.	Although glucose-lowering oral agents have been available for clinical use for over 60 years, the formal evidence base supporting their advantage and safety in regard of cardiovascular (CV) outcomes remains less than optimal. However, a synthesis of the evidence results in a high probability of benefit. For metformin, the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) substudy is convincing for a definite effect in reducing myocardial infarction (MI), but the quantitative extent of that is uncertain. For sulfonylureas, support for reduction in MI comes from the UKPDS extension study, where the central estimate for risk reduction remains the same as in the original planned end to the study, but the greater number of events was statistically significant for the sulfonylurea/insulin arm. Other studies do not support the view that metformin and sulfonylureas differ with respect to MI or indeed CV outcomes more generally. The data available for acarbose, an -glucosidase inhibitor, are weak but not of concern, although some positive substudy data are available for people with impaired glucose tolerance. For peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor- agonists the CV data are more controversial, but the purpose-designed randomized controlled trials are clear that pioglitazone is advantageous to placebo (except for heart failure [HF]), whereas rosiglitazone is indistinguishable from metformin/sulfonylureas (even when including HF data). Lower-quality data do, however, lead to significant concerns for MI with rosiglitazone. Early and somewhat low-quality data for the dipeptidyl peptidase inhibitors show they are safe and hold promise for cardiovascular advantage, with major randomized controlled trials being underway. Preliminary CV data are available for one sodium/glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor and look reassuring.
Social network resources and management of hypertension.	Hypertension is one of the most prevalent chronic diseases among older adults, but rates of blood pressure control are low. In this article, we explore the role of social network ties and network-based resources (e.g., information and support) in hypertension diagnosis and management. We use data from the National Social Life, Health, and Aging Project to identify older adults with undiagnosed or uncontrolled hypertension. We find that network characteristics and emotional support are associated with hypertension diagnosis and control. Importantly, the risks of undiagnosed and uncontrolled hypertension are lower among those with larger social networks-if they discuss health issues with their network members. When these lines of communication are closed, network size is associated with greater risk for undiagnosed and uncontrolled hypertension. Health care utilization partially mediates associations with diagnosis, but the benefits of network resources for hypertension control do not seem to stem from health-related behaviors.
Prediabetes: a high-risk state for diabetes development.	Prediabetes (intermediate hyperglycaemia) is a high-risk state for diabetes that is defined by glycaemic variables that are higher than normal, but lower than diabetes thresholds. 5-10% of people per year with prediabetes will progress to diabetes, with the same proportion converting back to normoglycaemia. Prevalence of prediabetes is increasing worldwide and experts have projected that more than 470 million people will have prediabetes by 2030. Prediabetes is associated with the simultaneous presence of insulin resistance and -cell dysfunction-abnormalities that start before glucose changes are detectable. Observational evidence shows associations between prediabetes and early forms of nephropathy, chronic kidney disease, small fibre neuropathy, diabetic retinopathy, and increased risk of macrovascular disease. Multifactorial risk scores using non-invasive measures and blood-based metabolic traits, in addition to glycaemic values, could optimise estimation of diabetes risk. For prediabetic individuals, lifestyle modification is the cornerstone of diabetes prevention, with evidence of a 40-70% relative-risk reduction. Accumulating data also show potential benefits from pharmacotherapy.
Atherosclerotic disease and risk factor modification in Saudi Arabia: a call to action.	Atherosclerotic disease (AD) is the leading cause of death worldwide and in Saudi Arabia. Intensive risk reduction therapy plays a major role in reducing adverse cardiovascular outcomes in patients with AD. The level of awareness of this important fact amongst physicians (family physicians, general internists, cardiologists and vascular surgeons) in managing these patients in Saudi Arabia is not currently known. This study was conducted to examine the perceptions and knowledge of risk reduction therapy in patients with AD amongst physicians in Saudi Arabia in two clinical presentations; coronary artery disease (CAD) and peripheral artery disease (PAD).
Characterization of central venous catheter-associated deep venous thrombosis in infants.	Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is a frequent complication in infants with central venous catheters (CVCs). We performed this study to identify risk factors and risk-reduction strategies of CVC-associated DVT in infants.
Transformations in the medicalization of sex: HIV prevention between discipline and biopolitics.	This article examines transformations in HIV prevention strategies from the 1980s to the present. Drawing on the concepts of medicalization (Conrad,  2007 ), discipline and biopolitics (Foucault, 1976/ 1988 ), and biomedicalization (Clarke, Fishman, Fosket, Mamo, & Shim,  2003 ), it explores the shift from behavioral to biomedical and surgical prevention techniques-a shift symbolic of a more general trend toward the biomedicalization of sexuality. It argues that, although biomedical and surgical approaches (chemoprevention and male circumcision) have certain benefits, their efficacy is limited and uncertain. They do not guarantee individual protection. The aim is no longer the modification of sexual behavior through disciplinary strategies aimed at the development of subjective and sexual awareness, but the modification of health behavior as a positive response to biomedical recommendations. Through the use of preventative or curative drugs, the same type of sexual awareness is seen as no longer required.
Aspirin but not ibuprofen use is associated with reduced risk of prostate cancer: a PLCO study.	Although most epidemiological studies suggest that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use is inversely associated with prostate cancer risk, the magnitude and specificity of this association remain unclear.
Responding to evidence: breastfeed baby if you can--the sixth public health recommendation to reduce the risk of sudden and unexpected death in infancy.	Abundant evidence recognises breastfeeding as being associated with significant short and long-term health benefits for both infant and mother. Until recently, the role of breastfeeding as an independent factor in reducing risk for sudden unexpected infant death remained unclear. In October 2010, SIDS and Kids Australia held a consensus forum with international researchers and key stakeholders to review current evidence relating to safe infant sleeping recommendations. Following this forum and the publication of key reviews, the SIDS and Kids National Scientific Advisory Group has supported the decision that a critical threshold had been reached within the evidence that is supportive of breastfeeding as a specific risk reduction measure for sudden unexpected death in infancy. A sixth recommendation, Breastfeed baby if you can, will be included in the 2012 SIDS and Kids Safe Sleeping national public health campaign.
Means restriction for suicide prevention.	Limitation of access to lethal methods used for suicide--so-called means restriction--is an important population strategy for suicide prevention. Many empirical studies have shown that such means restriction is effective. Although some individuals might seek other methods, many do not; when they do, the means chosen are less lethal and are associated with fewer deaths than when more dangerous ones are available. We examine how the spread of information about suicide methods through formal and informal media potentially affects the choices that people make when attempting to kill themselves. We also discuss the challenges associated with implementation of means restriction and whether numbers of deaths by suicide are reduced.
Injuries occurring in medical students during international medical rotations: a strategy toward maximizing safety.	The number of medical students traveling to nations outside the United States is steadily increasing. The Association of American Medical Colleges graduation questionnaire notes an increase from 2,838 students in 2001 to 3,799 students in 2009, the last year for which information is available. The risk of having any type of illness during international travel approaches 50%. Up to 19% of students will seek medical care on their return to the United States for illnesses. Most illnesses are benign and self limited. However, when deaths do occur, the leading causes are motor vehicle crashes and drownings. If air medical evacuation occurs, the most likely cause is an injury event. The authors review the literature to determine the risk of and type of illnesses and injuries suffered by travelers while overseas, especially medical volunteers. We describe the major categories of illness and injury risk and propose reasonable risk reduction and prevention strategies for prevention for injury, a relatively neglected area. We recommend that medical schools provide pre-travel training that includes injury prevention so that students are prepared not only for illness prevention but also for injury prevention. A focus on injury prevention, especially from motor vehicle crashes and drowning, is warranted given their role in causing death and serious injury to traveling students.
Validity of the Global Physical Activity Questionnaire (GPAQ) in adult Latinas.	Valid and reliable self-report measures of physical activity (PA) are needed to evaluate the impact of interventions aimed at increasing the levels of PA. However, few valid measures for assessing PA in Latino populations exist.
Lifestyle changes through the use of delivered meals and dietary counseling in a single-blind study. The STYLIST study.	Dietary habits are associated with obesity, and both are important contributing factors to lifestyle-related diseases. The STYLIST study examined the effects of dietary counseling by registered dietitians and the delivery of proper calorie-controlled meals (UMIN Registration No: 000006582).
Oral contraceptive use in girls and alcohol consumption in boys are associated with increased blood pressure in late adolescence.	Lifestyle behaviours established during adolescence may adversely affect blood pressure (BP) and contribute to gender differences in cardiovascular risk in adulthood. We aimed to assess the association of health behaviours with BP in adolescents, using data from the Western Australian Pregnancy (Raine) Study.
Population attributable risk estimates for risk factors associated with hypertension in an Indian population.	Little evidence exists regarding the magnitude of contribution of risk factors associated with hypertension in India. Determination of potentially modifiable risk factors is necessary to focus prevention strategies.
Mutual interactions between depression/quality of life and adherence to a multidisciplinary lifestyle intervention in obesity.	There is scarce knowledge of the interaction between depression/health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and lifestyle intervention in obesity.
Effect of improved fitness beyond weight loss on cardiovascular risk factors in individuals with type 2 diabetes in the Look AHEAD study.	Because lifestyle-induced improvements in cardiovascular risk factors vary substantially across individuals with type 2 diabetes, we investigated the extent to which increases in fitness explain cardiovascular risk factor improvements independent of weight loss in a lifestyle intervention.
Staff perceptions of addressing lifestyle in primary health care: a qualitative evaluation 2 years after the introduction of a lifestyle intervention tool.	Preventive services and health promotion in terms of lifestyle counselling provided through primary health care (PHC) has the potential to reduce morbidity and mortality in the population. Health professionals in general are positive about and willing to develop a health-promoting and/or preventive role. A number of obstacles hindering PHC staff from addressing lifestyle issues have been identified, and one facilitator is the use of modern technology. When a computer-based tool for lifestyle intervention (CLT) was introduced at a number of PHC units in Sweden, this provided an opportunity to study staff perspectives on the subject. The aim of this study was to explore PHC staff's perceptions of handling lifestyle issues, including the consultation situation as well as the perceived usefulness of the CLT.
Improving diabetes care: multi-component cardiovascular disease risk reduction strategies for people with diabetes in South Asia--the CARRS multi-center translation trial.	Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in people with diabetes in South Asia. The CARRS Translation Trial tests the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, and sustainability of a clinic-based multi-component CVD risk reduction intervention among people with diabetes in India and Pakistan.
Diagnosis and management of upper extremity deep-vein thrombosis in adults.	Upper extremity deep-vein thrombosis (UEDVT) is common and can cause important complications, including pulmonary embolism and post-thrombotic syndrome. An increase in the use of central venous catheters, particularly peripherally inserted central catheters has been associated with an increasing rate of disease. Accurate diagnosis is essential to guide management, but there are limitations to the available evidence for available diagnostic tests. Anticoagulation is the mainstay of therapy, but interventional treatments may be considered in select situations. The risk of UEDVT may be reduced by more careful selection of patients who receive central venous catheters and by use of smaller catheters. Herein we review the diagnosis, management and prevention of UEDVT. Due to paucity of research, some principles are drawn from studies of lower extremity DVT. We present a practical approach to diagnosing the patient with suspected deep-vein thrombosis of the upper extremity.
Predictive validity of established cut points for risk and protective factor scales from the communities that care youth survey.	Community coalitions are a popular strategy to coordinate activities and resources to prevent adolescent substance use and delinquent behavior. Despite early evidence of their lack of effectiveness, a new generation of community coalitions has shown positive results in preventing youth substance use and delinquency. This success can be attributed to coalition decision making focused on reducing local risk factors and increasing local protective factors through the use of evidence-based prevention programs. A previous study using cross-sectional data established cut point values for scales measuring risk and protective factors on the Communities That Care Youth Survey (CTCYS) to identify high levels of risk and low levels of protection in communities on each scale. The current study extended this previous research by using longitudinal data to assess the validity of risk and protective factor cut point values in predicting substance use and delinquent behavior 1year after risk and protection were measured. The findings demonstrate the predictive validity of cut points for risk and protective factor scales measured by the CTCYS and suggest their utility in guiding prevention efforts.
Risks, benefits and survival strategies-views from female sex workers in Savannakhet, Laos.	Female sex workers (FSWs) are vulnerable to sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and encounter socio-economic and health problems, including STIs/HIV, unintended pregnancy and complications from unsafe abortion, stigma, violence, and drug addiction. Reducing risks associated with sex work requires an understanding of the social and cultural context in which sex workers live and work. This study aimed to explore the working environment and perceived risks among FSWs in Savannakhet province in Laos.
Compliance with neuromuscular training and anterior cruciate ligament injury risk reduction in female athletes: a meta-analysis.	No consensus exists about the influence of compliance with neuromuscular training programs on reduction of the risk of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury.
Optimizing natural fertility: the role of lifestyle modification.	Preconception counseling provides an opportunity for health care providers to promote maternal and neonatal health, and to make recommendations regarding the optimization of natural fertility. While educating patients on the negative impact of maternal obesity on fertility and maternal and neonatal health; many health care providers recommend weight loss to reduce these negative outcomes. The recommendations start with lifestyle modifications, including diet and exercise. This article focuses on the available evidence regarding lifestyle modifications and fertility, and on the type of lifestyle modifications that health care providers should recommend to patients seeking to optimize their natural fertility.
Polycystic ovarian syndrome management options.	Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is a disorder of androgen excess and ovarian dysfunction. Hirsutism and elevated free testosterone levels are the most consistent signs of the androgen excess. Irregular, infrequent, or absent menses and infertility are symptoms of ovulatory dysfunction. Obesity is also a feature of this syndrome and contributes to associated metabolic abnormalities. Lifestyle modification should be the first treatment and is effective in reducing the signs and symptoms. The ovulatory infertility associated with PCOS can be overcome in most cases with oral (clomiphene citrate or letrozole) or injectable (gonadotropins) agents. Surgical intervention is reserved for cases resistant to medical management.
Evaluation and treatment of anovulatory and unexplained infertility.	Anovulatory disorders are a primary cause of female infertility. Polycystic ovarian syndrome is the major cause of anovulation and is generally associated with obesity. Lifestyle changes to encourage weight loss are the initial therapy for overweight and obese patients, followed by clomiphene citrate for ovulation induction. For those patients who fail to ovulate on clomiphene citrate, alternatives, such as letrozole; gonadotropins; and complimentary agents to enhance clomiphene citrate, such as metformin and glucocorticoids, are reviewed. Women with unexplained infertility (no identifiable cause of infertility on a routine evaluation) may benefit from ovulation induction with clomiphene citrate, letrozole, or gonadotropins.
Combination and selection of traffic safety expert judgments for the prevention of driving risks.	In this paper, we describe a new framework to combine experts&#8217; judgments for the prevention of driving risks in a cabin truck. In addition, the methodology shows how to choose among the experts the one whose predictions fit best the environmental conditions. The methodology is applied over data sets obtained from a high immersive cabin truck simulator in natural driving conditions. A nonparametric model, based in Nearest Neighbors combined with Restricted Least Squared methods is developed. Three experts were asked to evaluate the driving risk using a Visual Analog Scale (VAS), in order to measure the driving risk in a truck simulator where the vehicle dynamics factors were stored. Numerical results show that the methodology is suitable for embedding in real  time systems.
The integration of diet and nutrition lifestyle management strategies into the dental office visit for diabetes risk reduction and management.	The incidence of diabetes and prediabetes in the United States continues to increase. Oral health care professionals (OHCPs) play a role in diabetes screening and education.
Predictors of serosorting and intention to serosort among men who have sex with men, San Francisco.	The objectives of this study were to characterize men who have sex with men (MSM) with intention to serosort and to identify factors associated with subsequent failure, defined as potentially discordant unprotected anal intercourse (PDUAI) events. Time-location sampling was used to recruit MSM into a longitudinal study of seroadaptive behaviors in San Francisco. Intention to serosort was assessed at baseline, while sexual behavior in the subsequent 6 months was assessed at follow-up. HIV-negative frequent methamphetamine users were less likely (odds ratio [OR] = 0.14; 95% CI [0.03, 0.81]) and HIV-positive frequent methamphetamine users were more likely (OR = 1.99; 95% CI [1.07, 3.69]) to intend to serosort than nonusers. Among HIV-positive and HIV-negative MSM with intent to serosort, those who frequently used alcohol, methamphetamine, or "downers" had significantly more episodes of PDUAI compared to nonusers. Challenges to serosorting, particularly substance use, should be addressed in HIV prevention and treatment programs that promote seroadaptive behaviors.
Stereotypes about people living with HIV: implications for perceptions of HIV risk and testing frequency among at-risk populations.	Although research continues to demonstrate that HIV stigma is associated with decreased HIV testing, the psychological processes implicated in this association remain unclear. The authors address this gap by differentiating between the HIV stigma mechanisms of stereotypes, prejudice, and discrimination. They hypothesize that HIV stereotypes specifically, more so than prejudice or discrimination, are associated with HIV testing among at-risk populations. Ninety-three HIV-negative people receiving methadone maintenance therapy at a clinic in the northeastern United States participated by completing a survey. Results demonstrated that HIV stereotypes are associated with HIV testing via the mediator of perceived HIV risk. As hypothesized, prejudice, discrimination, and objective HIV risk were not associated with perceived HIV risk. Differentiating between HIV stigma mechanisms in future work can provide critical insight into how to intervene in HIV stigma to increase HIV testing and improve HIV prevention among at-risk populations.
Relationship between healthy diet and risk of cardiovascular disease among patients on drug therapies for secondary prevention: a prospective cohort study of 31 546 high-risk individuals from 40 countries.	Diet quality is strongly related to cardiovascular disease (CVD) incidence, but little is known about its impact on CVD events in older people at high risk of CVD and receiving effective drugs for secondary prevention. This study assessed the association between diet quality and CVD events in a large population of subjects from 40 countries with CVD or diabetes mellitus with end-organ damage receiving proven medications.
Impact of national HIV and AIDS communication campaigns in South Africa to reduce HIV risk behaviour.	In South Africa social and behavioural communication interventions are a critical component of HIV/AIDS prevention, and numerous communication campaigns have been implemented intensively across the country through government initiatives and nongovernmental organisations over the past decade. The aim of this paper is to assess the reach of HIV and AIDS communication campaigns in conjunction with contributions to knowledge, attitudes, and HIV risk behaviours in the general population in South Africa. The sample included in this nationally representative cross-sectional survey was 13234 people aged 15-55 years. Overall, the study found that there was high exposure to 18 different HIV communication programmes (median 6 programmes and 14 programmes more than 30%) across different age groups. Most programmes were more often seen or heard by young people aged between 15 and 24 years. In multivariate analysis, greater exposure to HIV mass communication programmes was associated with greater HIV knowledge, condom use at last sex, having tested for HIV in the past 12 months, and less stigmatizing attitude toward PLWHA.
Thinkfirst for teens: finding an injury-prevention approach for teenagers.	Teenagers are a vulnerable population for devastating injuries. The ThinkFirst for Teens injury-prevention program, which includes scientific information and real-life stories, was presented to high school freshman students and Web-based preprogram and postprogram surveys were used to evaluate injury knowledge and safety behaviors and influences. No statistically significant difference was found in the students' answers on the preprogram and postprogram surveys. After the program, student-reported seat belt and bicycle helmet compliance had improved from that reported in the preprogram survey. Other safety behaviors that did not improve remained better than the national trends reported in the 2009 Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance data. The study supports the literature reporting that parents influence their teenagers' safety behaviors.
Exercise effects on hip bone mineral density in older, post-menopausal breast cancer survivors are age dependent.	We evaluated whether age moderated the effect of impact + resistance exercise on hip BMD in older post-menopausal breast cancer survivors (BCS). Exercise was more beneficial among younger than older women within our sample, suggesting that much older BCS may require different training programs to improve hip health.
Variation in the sustained effects of the communities that care prevention system on adolescent smoking, delinquency, and violence.	Communities That Care (CTC) is a universal, science-based community prevention system designed to reduce risk, enhance protection, and prevent adolescent health and behavior problems community wide. CTC has been found to have sustained effects on cigarette use and delinquent and violent behaviors in grade 10 in a panel of 4,407 students followed from fifth grade in a community randomized trial. It is important to test variation in the effects of this prevention system designed to be universal to understand for whom it is most effective and whether it fails to produce change or leads to iatrogenic effects for certain categories of individuals. The present study examined variation in the sustained effects of CTC on tenth-grade cigarette use and delinquent and violent behaviors. Interaction analyses suggest that the effect of CTC did not differ between those who had high levels of community-targeted risk factors at baseline or had already engaged in substance use, delinquency, or violence at baseline versus those who had not. Although CTC reduced the prevalence of both girls' and boys' problem behaviors, the effect on delinquency was marginally (p=0.08) larger for boys than for girls. 
Self-generated identification codes in longitudinal prevention research with adolescents: a pilot study of matched and unmatched subjects.	Self-generated identification codes (SGICs) are an increasingly utilized methodological feature of longitudinal prevention research among adolescents. This study sought to test the differences between the matched and unmatched groups at baseline on a number of background, health, and well-being and risk behavior measures in a prevention study among 13- to 16-year-old Icelandic adolescents where a SGIC was constructed and used to link individual-level respondent data over two data collection points one year apart. We use pilot data from two Reykjavik city secondary schools collected as part of the population study Youth in Iceland in February 2010 and 2011 (N=366, SGIC matching rate 61%). Baseline results for the matched and unmatched participants are compared. Findings indicate that the unmatched subjects are both more likely to be substance users than their matched counterparts as well as being more likely to be boys and/or from disrupted families. Five out of the seven scaled measures for risk and protective factors and personality indicators reveal no difference between the matched and unmatched subjects and the significantly different measures reveal small effect sizes between the two groups. However, the effect sizes for substance use are significantly different between the matched and unmatched groups for all seven substance use measures with effect sizes from 0.52 to 1.32. These findings therefore indicate that the measurement validity of adolescent risk behaviors such as substance use may be put in jeopardy when using SGIC and that unmatched subjects may be more likely to distrust the SGIC process.
Evaluating the impact of implementation factors on family-based prevention programming: methods for strengthening causal inference.	Despite growing recognition of the important role implementation plays in successful prevention efforts, relatively little work has sought to demonstrate a causal relationship between implementation factors and participant outcomes. In turn, failure to explore the implementation-to-outcome link limits our understanding of the mechanisms essential to successful programming. This gap is partially due to the inability of current methodological procedures within prevention science to account for the multitude of confounders responsible for variation in implementation factors (i.e., selection bias). The current paper illustrates how propensity and marginal structural models can be used to improve causal inferences involving implementation factors not easily randomized (e.g., participant attendance). We first present analytic steps for simultaneously evaluating the impact of multiple implementation factors on prevention program outcome. Then, we demonstrate this approach for evaluating the impact of enrollment and attendance in a family program, over and above the impact of a school-based program, within PROSPER, a large-scale real-world prevention trial. Findings illustrate the capacity of this approach to successfully account for confounders that influence enrollment and attendance, thereby more accurately representing true causal relations. For instance, after accounting for selection bias, we observed a 5% reduction in the prevalence of 11th grade underage drinking for those who chose to receive a family program and school program compared to those who received only the school program. Further, we detected a 7% reduction in underage drinking for those with high attendance in the family program.
Sexual behaviour after antiretroviral therapy initiation in female sex workers and HIV-positive patients from the general population, Cotonou, Benin.	From September 2008 to December 2011, we enrolled and followed-up 247 HIV-negative, 88 untreated and 32 treated HIV-positive female sex workers (FSWs), as well as 238 untreated and 115 treated HIV-positive patients from the general population (GP) of Cotonou, Benin. We wanted to assess the effect of antiretroviral therapy (ART) on sexual risk-taking in FSWs and patients from the GP. We used multivariate log binomial regression models for repeated measures to compare risky behaviours reported during pre-ART and post-ART visits and we performed linear time-trend analyses to assess changes in condom use in all five groups. At 58.8% of pre-ART and 45.3% of post-ART visits (adjusted p-value=0.293), treated FSWs have reported 16 clients during the last week of work. Inconsistent condom use with clients over the same period decreased by more than 50% (from 20.7 to 10.0%, adjusted p-value=0.082). In treated patients from the GP, inconsistent condom use with regular partners during the last four months was reported at 52.8% of pre-ART and 53.5% of post-ART visits (p=0.778). Reported casual sex was stable (36.8% versus 38.7%, adjusted p-value=0.924). In linear time-trend analyses, there was a significant downward trend in inconsistent condom use at the early stage of the study and stability thereafter in all HIV-negative and HIV-positive FSWs. There was no negative alteration in sexual behaviour following ART initiation either inpatients from the GP or in FSWs. The results underscore the key role of concomitant sexual risk-reduction strategies. 
A telephone-supported cardiovascular lifestyle programme (CLIP) for lipid reduction and weight loss in general practice patients: a randomised controlled pilot trial.	To evaluate a primary prevention care model using telephone support delivered through an existing health call centre to general practitioner-referred patients at risk of developing CVD, using objective measures of CVD risk reduction and weight loss.
An office-based approach to emotional and behavioral risk factor reduction for cardiovascular disease.	There are many psychological risk factors for cardiovascular disease, and the ability to reduce mortality depends on an ability to integrate care of these risk factors with traditional Framingham cardiovascular risk and use them both in routine practice. The aim of this article is to provide an update of all the major emotional and behavioral cardiovascular risk factors along with a practical treatment model for implementation. First, we provide a review of major emotional and behavioral cardiovascular risk factors, the associated primary effect, and proposed mechanism of action. Second, we provide an office-based approach to cardiovascular risk factor reduction and methods of reducing barriers to implementation, called Prevention Oriented Primary Care-Abridged. The approach integrates several forms of detection, assessment using the 3As (ask, assess, assist), and Stages of Change approaches, and subsequent efficient and targeted treatment with either Motivational Interviewing or further office intervention. A case example is provided to help illustrate this process. 
A qualitative study exploring patients' experiences of standard care or cardiac rehabilitation post minor stroke and transient ischaemic attack.	To explore individuals' experiences of receiving either standard care or comprehensive cardiac rehabilitation post minor stroke or transient ischaemic attack.
Incentivizing behaviour change to improve diabetes care.	Behavioural economics refers to the study of psychological and cognitive factors that relate to decision-making processes. This field is being applied increasingly to health care settings, in which patients receive tangible reinforcers or incentives for meeting objective behavioural criteria consistent with healthy lifestyles. This article reviews the background and efficacy of reinforcement interventions in general, and then as applied to behaviours related to diabetes prevention and management. Specifically, reinforcement interventions have been applied with some notable success towards promoting greater attendance at medical appointments, enhancing weight loss efforts, augmenting exercising regimes, improving medication adherence and increasing blood glucose monitoring. Suggestions for promising areas of future research are provided, keeping in mind the controversial nature of these interventions. 
Social and structural HIV prevention in alcohol-serving establishments: review of international interventions across populations.	Alcohol use is associated with risks for sexually transmitted infections (STIs), including HIV/AIDS. People meet new sex partners at bars and other places where alcohol is served, and drinking venues facilitate STI transmission through sexual relationships within closely knit sexual networks. This paper reviews HIV prevention interventions conducted in bars, taverns, and informal drinking venues. Interventions designed to reduce HIV risk by altering the social interactions within drinking environments have demonstrated mixed results. Specifically, venue-based social influence models have reduced community-level risk in U.S. gay bars, but these effects have not generalized to gay bars elsewhere or to other populations. Few interventions have sought to alter the structural and physical environments of drinking places for HIV prevention. Uncontrolled program evaluations have reported promising approaches to bar-based structural interventions with gay men and female sex workers. Finally, a small number of studies have examined multilevel approaches that simultaneously intervene at both social and structural levels with encouraging results. Multilevel interventions that take environmental factors into account are needed to guide future HIV prevention efforts delivered within alcohol-serving establishments.
Optimal choice on prevention and cure: a new economic analysis.	This paper studies choices on prevention and cure in a context where an agent bears a health risk. In this framework we first analyze interdependence between the optimal levels of prevention and cure. Second, we study the effects on optimal choices of a change in the cost of one of the two instruments and we examine substitutability between them. Finally we present findings about the effects of a change either in the seriousness of the possible disease or in the efficiency of the medical treatment. 
HIV, syphilis and sexual risk behaviours among men who have sex with men in Agadir and Marrakesh, Morocco.	To collect baseline measurements of HIV and syphilis prevalence and sexual risk behaviours among men who have sex with men (MSM) in Agadir and Marrakech, Morocco, and provide strategic information to improve outreach programmes.
WiLLOW: reaching HIV-positive African-American women through a computer-delivered intervention.	WiLLOW is an evidence-based, group level HIV prevention program for African-American women living with HIV. This study evaluated the efficacy of a multimedia adaptation of WiLLOW in enhancing protective sexual behaviors and psychosocial mediators associated with HIV risk reduction. Using a randomized controlled design, 168 participants completed baseline, satisfaction, and three-month follow-up assessments. At follow-up intervention participants reported higher proportions of condom protected sex acts (p = .002) with both HIV-negative (p = .040) and HIV-positive (p = .003) partners. They were also more likely to report 100 % condom use (OR = 9.67; p = .03); fewer unprotected vaginal and anal sex acts (p = .002); significantly greater sexual communication self-efficacy (p = .004); and less stress (p = .012). Participants rated Multimedia WiLLOW favorably in four satisfaction categories-enjoyment (p < .001); information utility (p = .018); information clarity (p = .015) and held attention (p = .01).
The duty to be well-informed: the case of depression.	It is now an ethical dictum that patients should be informed by physicians about their diagnosis, prognosis and treatment options. In this paper, I ask: 'How informed are the 'informers' in clinical practice?' Physicians have a duty to be 'well-informed': patient well-being depends not just in conveying adequate information to patients, it also depends on physicians keeping up-to-date about: (1) popular misunderstandings of illnesses and treatments; and (2) the importance of patient psychology in affecting prognosis. Taking the case of depression as an entry point, this paper argues that medical researchers and physicians need to pay serious attention to the explanations given to patients regarding their diagnosis. Studies on lay understanding of depression show that there is a common belief that depression is wholly caused by a 'chemical imbalance' (such as 'low serotonin') that can be restored by chemically restorative antidepresssants, a claim that has entered 'folk wisdom'. However, these beliefs oversimplify and misrepresent the current scientific understanding of the causes of depression: first, there is consensus in the scientific community that the causes of depression include social as well as psychological triggers (and not just biochemical ones); second, there is significant dissensus in the scientific community over exactly what lower level, biological or biochemical processes are involved in causing depression; third, there is no established consensus about how antidepressants work at a biochemical level; fourth, there is evidence that patients are negatively affected if they believe their depression is wholly explained by (the vague descriptor) of 'biochemical imbalance'. I argue that the medical community has a duty, to provide patients with adequate information and to be aware of the negative health impact of prevalent oversimplifications-whatever their origins. 
Developing an online health intervention for young gay and bisexual men.	Young gay and bisexual men continue to experience increases in HIV incidence in the US highlighting a need for competent health services, while the prominence of the internet in their social and sexual lives calls for novel preventive modalities. Toward this goal, we adapted an efficacious in-office HIV risk reduction intervention for online delivery. This paper describes the development of the online intervention and highlights the results of interviews and focus groups with the original intervention participants regarding effective adaptation and online delivery recommendations. The final intervention incorporates strategies for overcoming barriers to online intervention with this population and capitalizes on the unique strengths of online intervention delivery. The systematic process described in this paper can be used as a template for other researchers to develop online risk reduction programs and fills an important gap in the field's ability to maximally reach a critical risk group. 
Feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of an online HIV prevention program for diverse young men who have sex with men: the keep it up! intervention.	Young men who have sex with men (YMSM) are disproportionately infected with HIV/AIDS and there are few prevention programs with published efficacy for this population. This study evaluated the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of an online, interactive, and highly engaging HIV prevention program called Keep It Up! The intervention was designed to be delivered to diverse YMSM upon receiving an HIV negative text result, with the goal for them to "Keep It Up" and stay negative. In a randomized clinical trial, the intervention was compared to an online didactic HIV knowledge condition. The study sample included 102 sexually active YMSM. Participants reported completing online modules in settings that were private and not distracting. Mixed methods data showed intervention participants felt the program was valuable and acceptable. Compared to the control condition, participants in the intervention arm had a 44 % lower rate of unprotected anal sex acts at the 12-week follow-up (p < 0.05).
A comparison of the assessment and management of cardiometabolic risk in patients with and without type 2 diabetes mellitus in Canadian primary care.	To investigate the cardiometabolic risk (CMR) assessment and management patterns for individuals with and without type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in Canadian primary care practices.
Diagnosing vascular variability anomalies, not only MESOR-hypertension.	Chronobiology is the study of biological rhythms. Chronomics investigates interactions with environmental cycles in a genetically coded autoresonance of the biosphere with wrangling space and terrestrial weather. Analytical global and local methods applied to human blood pressure records of around-the-clock measurements covering decades detect physiological-physical interactions, a small yet measurable response to solar and terrestrial magnetism. The chronobiological and chronomic interpretation of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (C-ABPM) records in the light of time-specified reference values derived from healthy peers matched by sex and age identify vascular variability anomalies (VVAs) for an assessment of cardio-, cerebro-, and renovascular disease risk. Even within the conventionally accepted normal range, VVAs have been associated with a statistically significant increase in risk. Long-term C-ABPM records help to "know ourselves," serving for relief of psychological and other strain once transient VVAs are linked to the source of a load, prompting adjustment of one's lifestyle for strain reduction. Persistent circadian VVAs can be treated, sometimes by no more than a change in timing of the daily administration of antihypertensive medication. Circadian VVA assessment is an emergency worldwide, prompted in the United States by 1,000 deaths per day every day from problems related to blood pressure. While some heads of state met under United Nation and World Health Organization sponsorship to declare that noncommunicable diseases are a slow-motion disaster, a resolution has been drafted to propose C-ABPM as an added tool complementing purely physical environmental monitoring to contribute also to the understanding of social and natural as well as personal cataclysms. 
The assessment of vascular risk in men with erectile dysfunction: the role of the cardiologist and general physician.	Erectile dysfunction (ED) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) share risk factors and frequently coexist, with endothelial dysfunction believed to be the pathophysiologic link. ED is common, affecting more than 70% of men with known CVD. In addition, clinical studies have demonstrated that ED in men with no known CVD often precedes a CVD event by 2-5years. ED severity has been correlated with increasing plaque burden in patients with coronary artery disease. ED is an independent marker of increased CVD risk including all-cause and especially CVD mortality, particularly in men aged 30-60years. Thus, ED identifies a window of opportunity for CVD risk mitigation. We recommend that a thorough history, physical exam (including visceral adiposity), assessment of ED severity and duration and evaluation including fasting plasma glucose, lipids, resting electrocardiogram, family history, lifestyle factors, serum creatinine (estimated glomerular filtration rate) and albumin:creatinine ratio, and determination of the presence or absence of the metabolic syndrome be performed to characterise cardiovascular risk in all men with ED. Assessment of testosterone levels should also be considered and biomarkers may help to further quantify risk, even though their roles in development of CVD have not been firmly established. Finally, we recommend that a question about ED be included in assessment of CVD risk in all men and be added to CVD risk assessment guidelines. 
Lifestyle interventions and independence for elders study: recruitment and baseline characteristics.	Recruitment of older adults into long-term clinical trials involving behavioral interventions is a significant challenge. The Lifestyle Interventions and Independence for Elders (LIFE) Study is a Phase 3 multicenter randomized controlled multisite trial, designed to compare the effects of a moderate-intensity physical activity program with a successful aging health education program on the incidence of major mobility disability (the inability to walk 400 m) in sedentary adults aged 70-89 years, who were at high risk for mobility disability (scoring  9 on the Short Physical Performance Battery) at baseline.
Poor stroke-related risk factor control even after stroke: an opportunity for rehabilitation professionals.	The burden of chronic disease worldwide is substantial. Unfortunately, risk factor control for most chronic diseases remains poor even after diagnoses. This is a major concern because poor risk factor control often leads to secondary consequences of the disease and the development of co-existing diseases. Stroke is a chronic condition that frequently requires the services of rehabilitation professionals who can also play an important role in risk factor management to reduce recurrent stroke. Approaches to the management of stroke risk factors in stroke survivors vary greatly and consequently outcomes vary in a similar fashion. The current literature suggests that uniform offering of structured risk factor control programs over time to individuals with chronic disease can improve knowledge of stroke risk factors, knowledge of action to control risk factors and in turn facilitate self-management practices that reduce the negative consequences of chronic diseases. Rehabilitation professionals can play a vital role in the management and secondary prevention of chronic diseases during the rehabilitation process via patient education and training. Implications for Rehabilitation Evidence suggests that risk factor control remains poor in many individuals with chronic conditions such as stroke. Rehabilitation professionals can play a key role in programs designed to improve risk factor control in chronic conditions. Future risk factor control programs can be structured and implemented over time to include rehabilitation professionals.
A randomized trial of a behavioral intervention for high risk substance-using MSM.	Substance-using men who have sex with men (MSM) are among the groups at highest risk for HIV infection in the United States. We report the results of a randomized trial testing the efficacy of a small group sexual and substance use risk reduction intervention based on empowerment theory compared to an enhanced efficacious control condition among 515 high risk not-in-treatment MSM substance users. Effect sizes for sexual risk and substance use outcomes were moderate to large: HIV transmission risk frequency, d = 0.71 in the control versus 0.66 in the experimental group; number of anal sex partners, d = 1.04 versus 0.98; substance dependence symptoms, d = 0.49 versus 0.53; significant differences were not observed between conditions. Black MSM reduced their risks at a greater rate than White or Latino men. The findings point to a critically important research agenda to reduce HIV transmission among MSM substance users.
The utility of a composite biological endpoint in HIV/STI prevention trials.	A human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) as a biological endpoint in HIV prevention trials may not be feasible, so investigators have used surrogate biological outcomes. In a multisite trial, the epidemiology of STIs may be different across sites and preclude using one STI as the outcome. This study explored using a composite STI outcome to address that problem. The combined biological endpoint was the incidence of any of six new STIs (chlamydia, gonorrhea, trichomonas (women only), syphilis, herpes simplex virus type 2 infection and HIV) during a 24-month follow up period. We investigated how a composite STI outcome would perform compared to single and dual STI outcomes under various conditions. We simulated outcomes for four populations that represented a wide range of sex and age distributions, and STI prevalences. The simulations demonstrated that a combined biologic outcome was superior to single and dual STI outcomes in assessing intervention effects in 82% of the cases. A composite biological outcome was effective in detecting intervention effects and might allow more investigations to incorporate multiple biological outcomes in the assessment of behavioral intervention trials for HIV prevention. 
Nutritional approaches in the risk reduction and management of Alzheimer's disease.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a heterogeneous and devastating neurodegenerative disease with increasing socioeconomic burden for society. In the past 30 y, notwithstanding advances in the understanding of the pathogenesis of the disease and consequent development of therapeutic approaches to novel pathogenic targets, no cure has so far emerged. This contribution focuses on recent nutritional approaches in the risk reduction and management of AD with emphasis on factors providing a rationale for nutritional approaches in AD, including compromised nutritional status, altered nutrient uptake and metabolism, and nutrient requirements for synapse formation. Collectively these factors are believed to result in specific nutritional requirement in AD. The chapter also emphasizes investigated nutritional interventions in patients with AD, including studies with single nutrients and with the specific nutrient combination Fortasyn Connect and discusses the current shift of paradigm to intervene in earlier stages of AD, which offers opportunities for investigating nutritional strategies to reduce the risk for disease progression. Fortasyn Connect was designed to enhance synapse formation and function in AD by addressing the putative specific nutritional requirements and contains docosahexaenoic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, uridine-5'-mono-phosphate, choline, phospholipids, antioxidants, and B vitamins. Two randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with the medical food Souvenaid, containing Fortasyn Connect, showed that this intervention improved memory performance in mild, drug-nave patients with AD. Electroencephalography outcome in one of these clinical studies suggests that Souvenaid has an effect on brain functional connectivity, which is a derivative of changed synaptic activity. Thus, these studies suggest that nutritional requirements in AD can be successfully addressed and result in improvements in behavioral and neuro-physiological alterations that are characteristic to AD. The recent advance of methodologies and techniques for early diagnosis of AD facilitates the investigation of strategies to reduce the risk for AD progression in the earliest stages of the disease. Nutrition-based approaches deserve further investigation as an integral part of such strategies due to their low risk for side effects and their potential to affect pathological processes of very early AD. 
A novel approach to cardiovascular health by optimizing risk management (ANCHOR): behavioural modification in primary care effectively reduces global risk.	Primary care is well positioned to facilitate cardiovascular risk improvement and reduce future cardiovascular disease (CVD) burden.
Understanding physical activity in spinal cord injury rehabilitation: translating and communicating research through stories.	The purpose of this article is to develop an evidence-based resource for knowing and communicating the complexities involved for both males and females in implementing and sustaining a physically active lifestyle shortly after spinal cord injury (SCI).
Depressive symptoms moderate treatment response to brief intervention for prevention of alcohol exposed pregnancy.	The previously published randomized controlled trial, EARLY, tested the efficacy of a motivational interviewing (MI) plus feedback condition against a video information (VI) condition and an informational brochure (IB) condition in reducing drinking and/or increasing contraception effectiveness, and found that drinking and rates of effective contraception improved in all conditions. In this reanalysis of the data from EARLY, potential moderating effects of depressive, global distress, and anxiety symptoms in response to the three brief interventions to reduce alcohol exposed pregnancy risk were examined. Women with higher levels of depression at baseline reported greater improvements in the MI plus feedback condition versus the VI and IB conditions with depression moderating both drinking and contraceptive effectiveness. Global distress moderated only drinking behavior in the MI plus feedback but not other groups and anxiety was not a moderator of outcome in any of the intervention groups. Depressed or distressed women at risk for AEP may benefit from an AEP risk reduction intervention that incorporates interaction with a treatment provider versus educational information provided via video or written materials. 
Serotonin 2A receptors contribute to the regulation of risk-averse decisions.	Pharmacological studies point to a role of the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT) in regulating the preference for risky decisions, yet the functional contribution of specific 5-HT receptors remains to be clarified. We used pharmacological fMRI to investigate the role of the 5-HT2A receptors in processing negative outcomes and regulating risk-averse behavior. During fMRI, twenty healthy volunteers performed a gambling task under two conditions: with or without blocking the 5-HT2A receptors. The volunteers repeatedly chose between small, likely rewards and large, unlikely rewards. Choices were balanced in terms of expected utility and potential loss. Acute blockade of the 5-HT2A receptors with ketanserin made participants more risk-averse. Ketanserin selectively reduced the neural response of the frontopolar cortex to negative outcomes that were caused by low-risk choices and were associated with large missed rewards. In the context of normal 5-HT2A receptor function, ventral striatum displayed a stronger response to low-risk negative outcomes in risk-taking as opposed to risk-averse individuals. This (negative) correlation between the striatal response to low-risk negative outcomes and risk-averse choice behavior was abolished by 5-HT2A receptor blockade. The results provide the first evidence for a critical role of 5-HT2A receptor function in regulating risk-averse behavior. We suggest that the 5-HT2A receptor system facilitates risk-taking behavior by modulating the outcome evaluation of "missed" reward. These results have implications for understanding the neural basis of abnormal risk-taking behavior, for instance in pathological gamblers. 
Optimal diabetes care--can we afford it?: evidence-based diabetes care could be highly cost effective.	Management of diabetes is expensive and set to get costlier. Managing the condition and it's devastating complications imposing a huge societal and economic toll on healthcare systems worldwide. While many interventions to reduce complications are available, a number of interventions do not have a strong basis in evidence, and lack cost effectiveness. In a time of economic austerity, and unprecedented pressure to reduce costs of health care in the UK, are there ways improving care, without driving up cost? 
Use of pharmacologic interventions for breast cancer risk reduction: American Society of Clinical Oncology clinical practice guideline.	To update the 2009 American Society of Clinical Oncology guideline on pharmacologic interventions for breast cancer (BC) risk reduction.
A randomized controlled trial of the community-friendly health recovery program (CHRP) among high-risk drug users in treatment.	Existing evidence-based HIV risk reduction interventions have not been designed for implementation within clinical settings, such as methadone maintenance programs, where many high-risk drug users seek treatment services. We therefore systematically developed an adapted, significantly shortened, version of a comprehensive evidence-based intervention called the Community-friendly Health Recovery Program (CHRP) which has demonstrated preliminary evidence of efficacy in a feasibility/acceptability study already published. In a randomized controlled trial reported here, we tested the efficacy of the CHRP intervention among high-risk drug users newly enrolled in drug treatment at an inner-city methadone maintenance program. The CHRP intervention produced improvements in drug risk reduction knowledge as well as demonstrated sex- and drug-risk reduction skills. Support was found for the IMB model of health behavior change. Implications for future intervention research and practice are considered. 
Development and feasibility testing of a smart phone based attentive eating intervention.	Attentive eating means eating devoid of distraction and increasing awareness and memory for food being consumed. Encouraging individuals to eat more attentively could help reduce calorie intake, as a strong evidence base suggests that memory and awareness of food being consumed substantially influence energy intake.
Dietary strategies, policy and cardiovascular disease risk reduction in England.	Diet-related chronic diseases are major public health concerns in England and the associated costs to the National Health Service and society are considerable. Poor diet and other lifestyle factors are estimated to account for about one-third of all deaths from CVD in England. UK dietary recommendations were set by the Committee on Medical Aspects of Food Policy and are now set by the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition. For cardiovascular health, dietary recommendations are set for nutrients (saturated fat, trans-fat and carbohydrates), foods (fruits, vegetables and oily fish) and salt. The National Diet and Nutrition Survey demonstrates that the majority of the UK population have poor diets. Average intakes of saturated fat and salt are above recommendations while fruit, vegetables, fibre and oily fish are below recommendations. The Department of Health in England is committed to working to improve diet and lifestyle. Current work includes the Public Health Responsibility Deal, under which organisations pledge to increase fruits and vegetables and reduce levels of salt, trans-fat and energy in manufactured foods and menus, the provision of information to help improve food choice through better food labels and provision of information, including a NHS Choices website and the social marketing campaign Change4Life.
When 'raw sex' turns to a 'raw deal'  taking the opportunity to think about sex? Interviews with HIV-positive gay men diagnosed with acute hepatitis C.	Since 2001, cases of hepatitis C virus (HCV) sexual transmission have been reported in France, among HIV-positive gay men who do not inject drugs. An earlier study focused on the incidence of acute hepatitis C and risk factors associated with HCV transmission. The present study, based on in-depth interviews, aimed to highlight the biography, the sexual practices and the experiences of gay men infected with HCV. Beyond an apparent uniformity, the group of interviewees illustrates a variety of situations, life stories and health pathways, depending on their age. These well-adjusted gay men were used to engaging in unprotected sexual practices, but before their diagnosis they largely ignored HCV-transmission risk, which was associated in their mind with a pejorative drug addict image. Once diagnosed with acute hepatitis C, they experienced a critical and emotional period during which they were open to discuss their sexual practices and reconsider risk-reduction procedures, without being willing to give up on their satisfying sex life. Health educators should consider labelling hepatitis C as an STI in order to disrupt its negative image and to help HIV-positive gay man raise their awareness of HCV-transmission risks and implement better risk-reduction strategies.
Reducing risk behaviors linked to noncommunicable diseases in Mongolia: a randomized controlled trial.	We tested the efficacy of a 6-session, evidence-based health promotion intervention aimed at reducing noncommunicable disease (NCD) risk behaviors.
Barriers to healthy-lifestyle participation in stroke: consumer participation in secondary prevention design.	The aim of the study was to explore community-dwelling stroke patients' perceived barriers to healthy-lifestyle participation for secondary disease prevention, as well as their preferred means for risk-reduction information dissemination and motivators to participation in healthy-lifestyle interventions. Four focus groups (5-6 stroke survivors per group) were defined from community support groups. Key questions addressed barriers to healthy-lifestyle adoption, preferred methods for receiving information and factors that would engage participants in a risk-reduction programme. Groups were audiotaped, transcribed verbatim and analysed for thematic content using a framework approach. Twenty-two participants, 12 men, 10 women, mean age 71.4 (53-87) years, were included in the study. Three overarching themes emerged as barriers to healthy-lifestyle participation: physical, mental and environmental. Exercise participation difficulties spread across all three themes; healthy eating and smoking cessation concentrated in environmental and mental dimensions. Talks (discussions) were noted as participants' preferred method of information provision. Risk-reduction programmes considered attractive were stroke specific, convenient and delivered by healthcare professionals and involved both social and exercise components. Many stroke patients appear unable to adopt healthy-lifestyle changes through advice alone because of physical, mental and environmental barriers. Risk-reduction programmes including interactive education should be specifically tailored to address barriers currently experienced and extend beyond the stroke survivor to others in their environment who influence lifestyle choices. 
Screening and brief interventions for hazardous and harmful alcohol use among patients with active tuberculosis attending primary public care clinics in South Africa: results from a cluster randomized controlled trial.	In 2008 the World Health Organization (WHO) reported that South Africa had the highest tuberculosis (TB) incidence in the world. This high incidence rate is linked to a number of factors, including HIV co-infection and alcohol use disorders. The diagnosis and treatment package for TB and HIV co-infection is relatively well established in South Africa. However, because alcohol use disorders may present more insidiously, making it difficult to diagnose, those patients with active TB and misusing alcohol are not easily cured from TB. With this in mind, the primary purpose of this cluster randomized controlled trial was to provide screening for alcohol misuse and to test the effectiveness of brief interventions in reducing alcohol intake in those patients with active TB found to be misusing alcohol in primary public health care clinics in three districts in South Africa.
The connected health of cardiovascular medicine: current status and future directions.	The technologies of cardiovascular connected health stand to dramatically alter the management and prevention of cardiovascular disease, a worldwide leading cause of death. The American Heart Association has outlined seven key health metrics including physical activity, adequate blood pressure control, weight and a healthy diet, which lie at the core of cardiovascular disease management. Controlling these metrics has been demonstrated to result in substantial reductions in cardiovascular mortality. These metrics are ideally suited to a connected health management strategy involving enhanced patient empowerment and augmented physician engagement. As more patients and healthcare providers adopt technologies that allow for self-monitoring and point-of-care diagnostics, the physician has access to a greater depth of data concerning their patient's health and how best to influence it. 
Trading off dietary choices, physical exercise and cardiovascular disease risks.	Despite several decades of decline, cardiovascular diseases are still the most common causes of death in Western societies. Sedentary living and high fat diets contribute to the prevalence of cardiovascular diseases. This paper analyses the trade-offs between lifestyle choices defined in terms of diet, physical activity, cost, and risk of cardiovascular disease that a representative sample of the population of Northern Ireland aged 40-65 are willing to make. Using computer assisted personal interviews, we survey 493 individuals at their homes using a Discrete Choice Experiment (DCE) questionnaire administered between February and July 2011 in Northern Ireland. Unlike most DCE studies for valuing public health programmes, this questionnaire uses a tailored exercise, based on the individuals' baseline choices. A "fat screener" module in the questionnaire links personal cardiovascular disease risk to each specific choice set in terms of dietary constituents. Individuals are informed about their real status quo risk of a fatal cardiovascular event, based on an initial set of health questions. Thus, actual risks, real diet and exercise choices are the elements that constitute the choice task. Our results show that our respondents are willing to pay for reducing mortality risk and, more importantly, are willing to change physical exercise and dietary behaviours. In particular, we find that to improve their lifestyles, overweight and obese people would be more likely to do more physical activity than to change their diets. Therefore, public policies aimed to target obesity and its related illnesses in Northern Ireland should invest public money in promoting physical activity rather than healthier diets. 
Liver disorders in diabetic patients]	There is a mutual relationship between diabetes and liver disorders. Diabetic patients suffer from liver disorders more frequently and, vice versa, patients with liver disorders are at a higher risk of developing diabetes. Diabetes is probably the most common cause of chronic liver disorders in developed countries. Liver disorders related to diabetes include a wide spectrum of conditions, from a simple steatosis related to a slight elevation of liver tests through nonalcoholic steatohepatitis with various degrees of fibrosis up to cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma and acute liver failure. Nonalcoholic liver steatosis is the most common pathological condition that is, at present, considered to be a component of or to actually be the liver manifestation of metabolic syndrome, accompanied with an insulin resistance and other clinical components, such as central obesity, dyslipidemia, arterial hypertension and the already mentioned type 2 diabetes mellitus. The steatosis itself is a benign condition and the unfavourable development of the liver disorder is related to an inflammatory reaction (steatohepatitis) and subsequent fibrosis. There is no specific treatment for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. The basic measures include weight reduction, lifestyle changes and treatment of the concurrent conditions, such as diabetes and dyslipidemia. Formerly popular "hepatoprotective" substances do not play an important role in the treatment of steatohepatitis.
PREDIRCAM eHealth platform for individualized telemedical assistance for lifestyle modification in the treatment of obesity, diabetes, and cardiometabolic risk prevention: a pilot study (PREDIRCAM 1).	Healthy diet and regular physical activity are powerful tools in reducing diabetes and cardiometabolic risk. Various international scientific and health organizations have advocated the use of new technologies to solve these problems. The PREDIRCAM project explores the contribution that a technological system could offer for the continuous monitoring of lifestyle habits and individualized treatment of obesity as well as cardiometabolic risk prevention.
A culturally specific health coaching program targeting cardiovascular disease risk in South Asians: rationale, design, and baseline data.	Health coaching is an effective strategy for improving cardiovascular disease risk factors. Coaching interventions have primarily been studied in Caucasians, and the effectiveness in other ethnic groups is not known. Further, adaptation of coaching to include culturally specific components has not been studied. Our aim is to describe a culturally specific coaching program targeted at reducing cardiovascular disease risk in South Asians. Participants initially underwent comprehensive cardiovascular disease risk screening, then received individualized risk assessment and behavioral recommendations. A health coach then contacted participants regularly for one year to provide encouragement with behavior change, troubleshoot challenges, and assess adherence. In the first five years of the program, 3,180 people underwent risk assessment, 3,132 were candidates for coaching, 2,726 indicated a desire to participate in coaching, 1,359 received coaching, and 1,051 completed coaching for at least one year. Culturally specific health coaching is an appealing and feasible intervention for reducing cardiovascular disease risk in South Asians, with very low attrition. Coaching strategies for risk reduction are proven to be effective, but further longitudinal research is needed to determine whether the impact of incorporating cultural specificity improves the effectiveness. This program utilizes non-medically trained personnel as coaches and is relatively inexpensive, with potential for great cost savings in prevention of cardiovascular disease.
An Internet-based health management platform may effectively reduce the risk factors of metabolic syndrome among career women.	The purpose of this study is to target career women with metabolic syndrome (Mets) risk factors and investigate the effectiveness of using a health management platform (HMP) to improve health behavior and reduce Mets risk factors.
Primary prevention of cardiovascular disease: new guidelines, technologies and therapies.	A trend in primary prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) has been a move away from managing isolated risk factors, such as hypertension and dyslipidaemia, towards assessment and management of absolute CVD risk. In Australian guidelines, absolute CVD risk is calculated as the probability of a stroke, transient ischaemic attack, myocardial infarction, angina, peripheral arterial disease or heart failure occurring within the next 5 2013s. Absolute CVD risk should be regularly assessed in patients aged 45 2013s or older (35 2013s or older in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people) using the Australian absolute CVD risk calculator (http://www.cvdcheck.org.au). For patients currently taking a blood pressure (BP)-lowering or lipid-lowering agent, pretreatment values should be used to calculate risk. Patients at high absolute risk of CVD (> 15% over 5 2013s) should be treated with both BP-lowering and lipid-lowering agents, unless contraindicated or clinically inappropriate. For patients at moderate absolute risk of CVD (10%-15%) treatment with a BP-lowering and/or a lipid-lowering agent should be considered if the risk remains elevated after lifestyle interventions, BP is  160/100 mmHg, there is a family history of premature CVD, or the patient is of South Asian, Middle Eastern, Maori, Pacific Islander, Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander ethnicity. BP measurements taken using an oscillometric device can be used to approximate mean daytime ambulatory BP.
The consequences of seniors seeking health information using the internet and other sources.	The internet is viewed as an important channel for patient empowerment, enabling patients to feel more knowledgeable and take action to improve their own health. Internet use among seniors in the Netherlands is increasing, but it is not known if they also use it for health information, nor if seeking information on the internet has different consequences for empowerment than seeking information from other sources. We sought to investigate seniors' use of the internet compared to other resources for health information, and the consequences in terms of both subjective responses and actions taken. Using an email invitation and a web survey, we surveyed 100 elderly internet users, of which 85% had used the internet for health information. The consequences were similar for information found via internet and other sources, and generally positive. Over half reported feeling more knowledgeable and 51% reported making lifestyle changes, but fewer reported having taken other actions (e.g. discussing the information with their doctor). Encouraging the translation of knowledge into action represents an opportunity for empowerment in this population. 
Development of DASH Mobile: a mHealth lifestyle change intervention for the management of hypertension.	Several landmark studies based on the DASH diet have established the effectiveness of a lifestyle approach to blood pressure control that emphasizes a diet rich in fruits and vegetables with moderate portions of low-fat dairy and lean protein along with increased physical activity and reduced sodium intake. However, this evidence base remains underused due feasibility limitations of implementing these intense in-person interventions and poor engagement with desktop computer based versions. Mobile technologies such as smartphones and wireless sensors have the ability to deliver behavioral interventions in-the-moment and with reduced user burden. DASH Mobile is a new mHealth system being developed to deliver this evidence-based lifestyle intervention to hypertensive patients. The system consists of an Android based "app" that facilitates easy tracking of DASH food portions, integrated Bluetooth blood pressure, weight and pedometer monitoring, goal setting, simple data visualizations and multimedia video clips to train patients in the basic concepts of the lifestyle change plan. At present, the system is undergoing usability testing with a pilot clinical trial planned for Spring 2013. 
Gamification strategy on prevention of STDs for youth.	Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and especially chlamydia is a worrying problem among North-Norwegian youngsters. Gamified web applications should be valued for sexual health education, and thus STDs prevention, for their potential to get users engaged and involved with their healthcare. Aiming to achieve that youngsters become more aware of STDs we have developed "sjekkdeg.no", a gamified web application focused on sexual health targeting North-Norwegian youngsters. Gamification techniques like avatars, achievement-based gifts and social network sharing buttons have been implemented in the site that includes educational content on sexual health and a STDs symptom checker. Preliminary results show that the game-style web app could be useful to encourage users to learn more on sexual health and STDs and thus changing their risky behaviors and preventing sexually transmitted diseases. 
Changes in eating, physical activity and related behaviors in a primary care-based weight loss intervention.	To examine changes in eating behaviors and physical activity, as well as predictors of weight loss success, in obese adults who participated in a 2-year behavioral weight loss intervention conducted in a primary care setting.
Effect of lifestyle intervention on cardiometabolic risk factors: results of the POWER-UP trial.	To investigate the effects of three weight loss interventions on cardiometabolic risk factors, including blood pressure, lipids, glucose and markers of insulin resistance and inflammation. We also examined whether categories of incremental weight change conferred greater improvements on these parameters.
Managing obesity in primary care practice: an overview with perspective from the POWER-UP study.	Primary care practitioners (PCPs) have been encouraged to screen all adults for obesity and to offer behavioral weight loss counseling to the affected individuals. However, there is limited research and guidance on how to provide such intervention in primary care settings. This led the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute in 2005 to issue a request for applications to investigate the management of obesity in routine clinical care. Three institutions were funded under a cooperative agreement to undertake the practice-based opportunities for weight reduction (POWER) trials. The present article reviews selected randomized controlled trials, published before the initiation of POWER, and then provides a detailed overview of the rationale, methods and results of the POWER trial conducted at the University of Pennsylvania (POWER-UP). POWER-UP's findings are briefly compared with those from the two other POWER trials, conducted at Johns Hopkins University and Harvard University/Washington University. The methods of delivering behavioral weight loss counseling differed markedly across the three trials, as captured by an algorithm presented in the article. Delivery methods ranged from having medical assistants and PCPs from the practices provide counseling to using a commercially available call center, coordinated with an interactive website. Evaluation of the efficacy of primary care-based weight loss interventions must be considered in light of costs, as discussed in relation to the recent treatment model proposed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. 
Cost-effectiveness of a primary care intervention to treat obesity.	Data on the cost-effectiveness of the behavioral treatment of obesity are not conclusive. The cost-effectiveness of treatment in primary care settings is particularly relevant.
Indacaterol: a comprehensive review.	At present there is no cure for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). However, some nonpharmacologic treatments, such as rehabilitation and lung volume reduction surgery, as well as pharmacologic intervention, can relieve some of the patient's symptoms and improve quality of life, while also reducing the rate of exacerbations and hospitalizations. There needs to be a paradigm shift away from the unjustified nihilistic approach to COPD towards considering it a preventable and treatable disease. After patients quit smoking and start to lead healthier lifestyles, long-acting bronchodilators, such as long-acting beta-adrenergic agents (LABA) and long-acting antimuscarinic agents (LAMA), are recommended as the cornerstone of treatment for COPD, either as monotherapy or in combination. COPD is characterized by a reduced maximum expiratory flow and slow forced emptying of the lungs, which progress over time and are not completely reversible. In this condition, gas gets trapped in the lungs and pulmonary hyperinflation occurs. LABA and LAMA improve airway patency and deflate the lungs. Indacaterol is the first once-daily LABA approved for treatment of COPD, and is administered by inhalation through the Breezhaler device. The speed of bronchodilation is similar to that with salbutamol (ie, about five minutes) and longer (ie, 24 hours) than that with traditional LABA, with the same 12-hour effect as salmeterol and formoterol, both of which require twice-daily administration. This is why indacaterol has been called the "ultra-LABA". On the one hand, the fast onset of action provides immediate relief of symptoms, and on the other, its constant 24-hour bronchodilation provides "pharmacologic stenting" which facilitates lung emptying, thereby decreasing trapped gas and pulmonary hyperinflation. Once-daily administration of a fast and long-acting bronchodilator can improve patient adherence with therapy, which is known to be a major problem for many medical treatments. Dose-finding trials have shown that 75 g is the minimum dose needed to achieve clinically important improvement. However, indacaterol 150 g and 300 g achieve an even greater improvement in lung function and patient-oriented outcomes. Further, these two doses of indacaterol significantly reduce pulmonary hyperinflation, thereby improving exercise tolerance and ability to perform day-to-day activities. It is more effective on lung volumes at the 300 g dose than formoterol, and better than salmeterol and tiotropium at the 150 g dose, at least in the acute setting. It is noteworthy that few studies document these results in patients with COPD and moderate airflow obstruction. These are exactly the kind of patients our research should be concentrating on, in view of the accelerated decay in forced expiratory volume in one second at this stage of the disease. Finally, all the relevant studies show that indacaterol is consistently well tolerated by patients with COPD at every stage, and that it has a high safety profile. 
HIV risk-reduction counseling and testing on behavior change of MSM.	HIV and AIDS incidence in China is high among men who have sex with men (MSM) and ours was one of few studies in China to evaluate the role of HIV risk reduction counseling and testing. Respondent-driven sampling (RDS) was used to recruit 430 MSM. Participants were followed up at 6, 12 and 18 months to evaluate behavioral changes after counseling to reduce risk behaviors. At baseline, HIV prevalence was 4.7%, whereas HIV incidence was 5.2 per 100 person-years. The incidence was 3.8 during six to 12 months, and 1.1 during 12 to 18 months. During the study period, the reported unprotected anal intercourse (UAI) significantly decreased from 60.9% to 42.9%. The proportion of participants who had one or no partner significantly increased from 40.9% to 48.0%. The study also found that some risk behaviors decreased between baseline and 12 months, followed by a slight increase between 12 and 18 months. Reductions in UAI can be achieved through counseling and testing, but may wane over time. Future programs should consider HIV risk-reduction counseling and testing for interventions in MSM in China. 
A restatement of the natural science evidence base relevant to the control of bovine tuberculosis in Great Britain.	Bovine tuberculosis (bTB) is a very important disease of cattle in Great Britain, where it has been increasing in incidence and geographical distribution. In addition to cattle, it infects other species of domestic and wild animals, in particular the European badger (Meles meles). Policy to control bTB is vigorously debated and contentious because of its implications for the livestock industry and because some policy options involve culling badgers, the most important wildlife reservoir. This paper describes a project to provide a succinct summary of the natural science evidence base relevant to the control of bTB, couched in terms that are as policy-neutral as possible. Each evidence statement is placed into one of four categories describing the nature of the underlying information. The evidence summary forms the appendix to this paper and an annotated bibliography is provided in the electronic supplementary material. 
When to prevent cardiovascular disease? As early as possible: lessons from prospective cohorts beginning in childhood.	To detail recent developments linking modifiable youth risk factors with preclinical markers of cardiovascular disease such as carotid artery intima-media thickness, pulse-wave velocity (PVW) and large artery stiffness, brachial artery flow-mediated dilatation, left ventricular geometry, and coronary artery calcification in adulthood.
An inexpensive workplace initiative to motivate high-risk individual health improvement.	Unhealthy lifestyles cost businesses, governmental organizations, and the U.S. military billions of dollars every year, not to mention intangible costs associated with increased mortality. This study implemented a low-cost cognitive-behavioral motivational intervention to effect behavioral change in high-risk civilian employees working for a U.S. military organization, with accompanying improvement in certain health indicators after 120 days compared with a control group. Our analysis of these results led to two conclusions: first, low-cost cognitive-behavioral motivational treatments can improve both behavior and health, and second, tentative results indicate a fully mediated relationship may exist among the cognitive variables of locus of control and self-efficacy, vice the predicted parallel relationship. Overall, we assert that effective implementation of an intervention like the one used in this study might lower the U.S. Air Force's health care bill by as much as $40 million, improve employee efficiency and mission capability, enable healthier lives, and prevent premature death.
Development of year 2020 goals for the National HIV/AIDS Strategy for the United States.	In July, 2010, President Barack Obama released the National HIV/AIDS Strategy (NHAS). The NHAS set forth ambitious goals for the year 2015. These goals were potentially achievable had the appropriate level of resources been invested; however, investment at the necessary scale has not been made and the 2015 goals now may well be out of reach. Therefore, we propose that an updated NHAS be developed with goals for the year 2020 clearly articulated. For the purposes of fostering discussion on this important topic, we propose bold yet achievable quantitative 2020 goals based on previously published economic and mathematical modeling analyses. 
Cytokine gene polymorphism among Indigenous Australians.	The health profile of Indigenous Australians is characterised by high rates of classic 'lifestyle' diseases. Potential roles of inflammation in pathophysiology of these diseases requires investigation. It is not clear if genetic regulation of inflammation in Indigenous Australians is similar to other populations. This study characterised frequencies of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for eight cytokine genes for 100 individuals from a remote Indigenous Australian community and assessed novel genetic variants in four cytokine genes. We used a commercially-available allelic discrimination assay for SNP genotyping; re-sequencing was undertaken by standard Sanger sequencing methodologies for 26 samples. Frequencies of cytokine gene SNPs differed significantly from the Caucasian population (P<0.001-0.044). Twenty-five novel variants were identified across four re-sequenced genes; frequencies ranged from <5% to 100%. Genotype frequencies observed in Indigenous Australians did not consistently resemble reported HapMap frequencies in Northern and Western European populations, Yoruba Nigerian or Han Chinese. Our findings indicate Indigenous Australians might have an inherited propensity for strong inflammatory responses. Preliminary evidence of novel genetic variants highlights the need to catalogue the extent of genetic variation in specific population groups. Improved understanding of differences in genetic variation between specific population groups could assist in assessment of risk for lifestyle diseases. 
Behavioral treatment for weight gain prevention among black women in primary care practice: a randomized clinical trial.	Few weight loss treatments produce clinically meaningful weight loss outcomes among black women, particularly in the primary care setting. New weight management strategies are necessary for this population. Weight gain prevention might be an effective treatment option, with particular benefits for overweight and class 1 obese black women.
Setting the bar high or setting up to fail? Interpretations and implications of the EXPLORE Study (HPTN 015).	Controlled studies show that HIV risk reduction counseling significantly increases condom use, reduces unprotected sex and prevents sexually transmitted infections. Nevertheless, without evidence of reducing HIV incidence, these interventions are generally discarded. One trial, the EXPLORE study, was designed to test whether ten sessions of risk reduction counseling could impact HIV incidence among men who have sex with men in six US cities. Based on epidemiologic models to define effective HIV vaccines, a 35% reduction in HIV incidence was set a priori as the benchmark of success in this behavioral intervention trial. Results demonstrated a significant effect of the intervention, with more than a 35% reduction in HIV incidence observed during the initial 12-18months following counseling. Over an unprecedented 48-month follow-up, however, the effect of counseling on HIV incidence declined to 18%. The current review examined how the scientific literature has thus far judged the outcomes of the EXPLORE study as well as the policy implications of these judgments. We identified 127 articles that cited the EXPLORE study since its publication. Among articles that discuss the HIV incidence outcomes, 20% judged the intervention effective and 80% judged the intervention ineffective. The overwhelmingly negative interpretation of the EXPLORE study outcomes is reflected in public policies and prevention planning. We conclude that using a vaccine standard to define success led to a broad discrediting of the benefits of behavioral counseling and, ultimately, adversely impacted policies critical to the field of HIV prevention. 
Effectiveness of a first-aid intervention program applied by undergraduate nursing students to preparatory school children.	Childhood injuries constitute a major public health problem worldwide. First aid is an effective life-preservation tool at work, school, home, and in public locations. In this study, the effectiveness of a first-aid program delivered by undergraduate nursing students to preparatory school children was examined. This quasi-experimental study was carried out on 100 school children in governmental preparatory schools in Egypt. The researchers designed a program for first-aid training, and this was implemented by trained nursing students. The evaluation involved immediate post-test and follow-up assessment after two months. The results showed generally low levels of satisfactory knowledge and inadequate situational practice among the school students before the intervention. Statistically-significant improvements were shown at the post- and follow-up tests. Multivariate regression analysis identified the intervention and the type of school as the independent predictors of the change in students' knowledge score, while the intervention and the knowledge score were the predictors of the practice score. The study concluded that a first-aid training program delivered by nursing students to preparatory school children is effective in improving their knowledge and practice. 
Integrated bio-behavioural HIV surveillance surveys among female sex workers in Sudan, 2011-2012.	To assess HIV and syphilis prevalence, HIV-related behaviours and testing for HIV in female sex workers (FSW) in Sudan.
Dose-response relationship between exercise and respiratory disease mortality.	The objective of this study is to assess prospectively the dose-response relationship between respiratory disease (ICD10: J1-99), pneumonia (ICD10: J12.0-18.9), and aspiration pneumonia mortality (ICD10: J69) versus baseline walking and running energy expenditure (MET  h  d(-1), 1 MET = 3.5 mL O2  kg(-1)  min(-1)).
The postpartum management of women with gestational diabetes using a continuum model for health care.	Women with gestational diabetes mellitus require a continuum of care before, during, and after pregnancy for optimal management of hyperglycemia. Postpartum education and lifestyle modification should begin during pregnancy, and should continue during the postpartum period. Women should receive education on the long-term risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus, and should be encouraged to breastfeed, engage in regular physical activity, and select a highly effective contraceptive method in preparation for subsequent pregnancy. Postpartum women with gestational diabetes mellitus should be empowered to take ownership of their own health, including knowledge of health indicators such as weight, waist circumference hemoglobin A1C levels, and fasting and postprandial blood glucose levels. 
Identification of evidence-based interventions for promoting HIV medication adherence: findings from a systematic review of U.S.-based studies, 1996-2011.	A systematic review was conducted to identify evidence-based interventions (EBIs) for increasing HIV medication adherence behavior or decreasing HIV viral load among persons living with HIV (PLWH). We conducted automated searches of electronic databases (i.e., MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL) and manual searches of journals, reference lists, and listservs. Interventions were eligible for the review if they were U.S.-based, published between 1996 and 2011, intended to improve HIV medication adherence behaviors of PLWH, evaluated the intervention using a comparison group, and reported outcome data on adherence behaviors or HIV viral load. Each intervention was evaluated on the quality of study design, implementation, analysis, and strength of findings. Of the 65 eligible interventions, 10 are EBIs. The remaining 55 interventions failed to meet the efficacy criteria primarily due to null findings, small sample sizes, or low retention rates. Research gaps and future directions for development of adherence EBIs are discussed. 
Osteoporosis prevention and management: nonpharmacologic and lifestyle options.	The purpose of this review is to evaluate current evidence regarding the use of dietary and exercise interventions to prevent fractures in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. The key lifestyle modifications that can decrease risk of fracture in postmenopausal women include regular weight-bearing exercise and a balanced diet with adequate calcium and vitamin D intake. Other modifiable lifestyle factors critical to bone health and to decrease fracture risk include the avoidance of smoking, an excessively low body weight, excessive alcohol intake, and fall risks at home. Emerging modifiable factors may include B-vitamin, omega-3 fatty acid, soy isoflavone, and dehydroepiandrosterone supplementation. 
Prediction of type 2 diabetes in women with a history of gestational diabetes using a genetic risk score.	Women with a history of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are at increased risk of future development of type 2 diabetes. Recently, over 65 genetic variants have been confirmed to be associated with diabetes. We investigated whether this genetic information could improve the prediction of future diabetes in women with GDM.
Influence of life-style choices on locomotor disability, arthritis and cardiovascular disease in older women: prospective cohort study.	many chronic conditions have their roots in modifiable health-related behaviours.
Reduced risk of brain cancer mortality from walking and running.	This study aimed to test prospectively whether exercise is associated with lower brain cancer mortality in 111,266 runners and 42,136 walkers from the National Runners' and Walkers' Health Studies.
Osteoporosis treatment and prevention for postmenopausal women: current and future therapeutic options.	Osteoporosis, a "silent disease," is often unrecognized until fracture. Lifestyle modification with nutritional counseling is recommended during menopausal transition. Bone density testing is recommended for women aged 65 years and older, younger postmenopausal women with risk factors, or to follow therapy. Bisphosphonates treat osteoporosis (prevent bone resorption). Raloxifene and hormone therapy prevent bone loss and fracture, with extraskeletal benefits. Denosumab treats osteoporosis, although bone effects reverse rapidly. Teriparatide (anabolic therapy) is considered for women at high risk of fracture. Bazedoxifene with conjugated estrogens, novel delivery of teriparatide, new parathyroid hormone proteins, anti-sclerostin antibodies, cathepsin K inhibitors, and stem cell therapies are in testing. 
Osteoporosis risk factors and early life-style modifications to decrease disease burden in women.	Prevention of osteoporosis should begin in childhood and continue throughout adulthood. Although genetic determinants of muscle and bone mass may offer other therapeutic options in the future, currently, counseling should primarily focus on lifestyle modification including healthy dietary practices and regular exercise. Vitamin supplementation, particularly vitamin D, should be considered to enhance diet based on patient's need. Attention to estrogen status is also important. In addition, patients should be counseled regularly about cigarette cessation and avoiding moderate alcohol intake. 
Management of severe asthma in childhood--state of the art and novel perspectives.	The majority of children with asthma have mild or moderate disease and can obtain adequate control of symptoms through avoidance of triggering factors and/or with the help of medications. There is still a group of children with severe asthma in whom symptom control is poor depending either on identifiable aggravating factors or on true therapy resistance. These children have a poor quality of life and are limited by the severity of their disease. There is a need for a staged approach to the assessment and treatment of this small but vulnerable and resource-consuming group. The current review will provide an overview of a possible standardized approach to characterize this heterogeneous group of severely sick children including some newly developed ways of assessing asthma severity and potentialities of new asthma therapies. Furthermore, the umbrella term 'problematic severe asthma' is described. The term encompasses children whose severe asthma is due to identifiable exacerbating factors, as well as children who are resistant to any conventional therapeutic approach. Characteristics of these two groups of children are described, as are possible biomarkers and current and emerging diagnostic tools for allergy evaluation. Some recent advances and future possibilities for treatment of severe asthma are also presented in this review. 
Prevention and management of non-communicable disease: the IOC consensus statement, Lausanne 2013.	Morbidity and mortality from preventable, non-communicable chronic disease (NCD) threatens the health of our populations and our economies. The accumulation of vast amounts of scientific knowledge has done little to change this. New and innovative thinking is essential to foster new creative approaches that leverage and integrate evidence through the support of big data, technology, and design thinking. The purpose of this paper is to summarize the results of a consensus meeting on NCD prevention sponsored by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in April, 2013. Within the context of advocacy for multifaceted systems change, the IOC's focus is to create solutions that gain traction within health care systems. The group of participants attending the meeting achieved consensus on a strategy for the prevention and management of chronic disease that includes the following: 1. Focus on behavioural change as the core component of all clinical programs for the prevention and management of chronic disease. 2. Establish actual centres to design, implement, study, and improve preventive programs for chronic disease. 3. Use human-centered design in the creation of prevention programs with an inclination to action, rapid prototyping and multiple iterations. 4. Extend the knowledge and skills of Sports and Exercise Medicine (SEM) professionals to build new programs for the prevention and treatment of chronic disease focused on physical activity, diet and lifestyle. 5. Mobilize resources and leverage networks to scale and distribute programs of prevention. True innovation lies in the ability to align thinking around these core strategies to ensure successful implementation of NCD prevention and management programs within health care. The IOC and SEM community are in an ideal position to lead this disruptive change. The outcome of the consensus meeting was the creation of the IOC Non-Communicable Diseases ad-hoc Working Group charged with the responsibility of moving this agenda forward. 
Investing in communities: evaluating the added value of community mobilization on HIV prevention outcomes among FSWs in India.	Community mobilization often requires greater time and resource investments than typical interventions, yet few evaluations exist to justify these investments. We evaluated the added benefit of community mobilization on HIV prevention outcomes among female sex workers (FSWs) using a composite measure of volunteer participation in program committees by FSWs. After adjusting for treatment propensity, we used multilevel structural equation modeling (MSEM) to test our program theory. We hypothesized that stronger community mobilization would be associated with increased levels of consistent condom use and with increased levels of perceived fairness, mediated by psychosocial processes. Community mobilization had an indirect effect on consistent condom use mediated through social cohesion and an indirect effect on perceived fairness mediated by collective efficacy. Our results suggest higher levels of community mobilization help improve condom use and reduce perceived discrimination beyond the effects of the core HIV intervention program. We recommend further testing of this model. 
Pediatrician-led motivational interviewing to treat overweight children: an RCT.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of family pediatrician-led motivational interviews (MIs) on BMI of overweight (85th  BMI percentile  95 th) children aged 4 to 7 years.
Hypertension management and lifestyle changes following screening for hypertension in an Asian low socioeconomic status community: a prospective study.	This study investigated the effect of an access-enhanced intervention on hypertension screening and management, as well as on health behaviours among newly diagnosed hypertensives, in a multi-ethnic low socioeconomic status (SES) community. Factors associated with hypertension screening, treatment, and control in the community were also determined.
Medical care of type 2 diabetes mellitus in light of international and national recommendations: a retrospective analysis.	Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2Dm) is a chronic disease with great economic impact. In 2009, the Swiss Society for Endocrinology and Diabetes (SSED) published recommendations for treatment of T2Dm. In Switzerland, few data are currently available on metabolic control and physician compliance with treatment guidelines. We aimed to investigate clinical care in T2Dm in the year after the publication of SSED recommendations.
Effects of an empowerment program on health behaviors and stroke risk reduction of at-risk group in Thai rural community.	Unhealthy behaviors such as being overweight, have hypertension, diabetes, and dyslipidemia increase the risks of stroke. Promoting healthy behaviors could reduce the incidence of stroke, death, and disabilities. Empowerment was used in this study to help people change their health behaviors.
Opiate substitution programs: last chance programs or deal for quality of life?]	Substitution treatments have contributed to a successful policy of risk reduction. These treatments should now also include an "existential" dimension. Therefore the development of a life plan for substance abuse patients becomes a main concern. Therapist taking care of substance abuse patients should therefore ask themselves for what purpose prescribe opiate substitution treatments instead of just answering risk reduction issues. This shift requires us to move from a logic of emergency with immediate response to "passive" patients to a logic of crisis asking the patients active participation in their recovery process.
Options and limits in the treatment of overweight children and adolescents and their families in primary care]	The general practitioner or pediatrician mostly is the first point of contact for overweight children and may recognize adiposity early enough in order to start therapy of obesity or comorbidity or to initiate measures of prevention. Interventions against overweight are most efficient before age 7 in terms of short-and long-term results and should not be delayed. As obesity requires care of the entire family, close or recurring contact with the overweight child and its family is important as well as the treatment nearby their residence. In preschoolers, targeting parents exclusively for obesity therapy is highly effective. Changing cherished habits and style of education is the biggest challenge to parents. Therefore, various techniques of treatment of alcohol or tobacco addiction can be used and recommendations for improvement of self-worth as well as healthy eating behavior and exercise are presented. First feasible objectives include modest lifestyle changes and reduction of comorbidities; if an extreme obesity with a BMI above 99.5th percentile or mental disorders are present or if it becomes apparent within the first 6 months that the patient cannot achieve his own goals for changes in lifestyle and body weight, a referral to a specialized center is indicated. There, a multi-professional treatment of the child and his family is performed in common by specialists for nutrition, exercise and psychology. Childhood obesity is a chronic disease that requires a very long-term treatment and usually persists into adulthood. 
Cancer prevention in Asia: resource-stratified guidelines from the Asian Oncology Summit 2013.	With economic growth in Asia, cancer has become increasingly prominent as a major health problem. However, discrepancies in infrastructure, economics, and development exist within and between Asian countries. We assess means of primary and secondary prevention for cervical, breast, colorectal, and hepatocellular cancer, and offer recommendations according to resource levels. Primary prevention by health education, lifestyle modification, and avoidance of risk factors should be made available at all resource levels. When resources allow, human papillomavirus and hepatitis B vaccinations should be given to reduce the risk of cervical and hepatocellular cancer, and genetic testing should be offered to detect increased susceptibility to colorectal and breast cancer. Secondary prevention by effective yet affordable screening for precancerous lesions or by early detection of cancer should be offered, followed by appropriate treatment. 
Osteoporosis: therapeutic guidelines. Guidelines for practice management of osteoporosis.	Therapeutic guidelines of osteoporosis are reviewed from North American Menopause Society, American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology, and the National Osteoporosis Foundation. The various guidelines are compared and discussed. 
Efficacy of a culturally congruent HIV risk-reduction intervention for behaviorally bisexual black men: results of a randomized trial.	Black men who have sex with men and women (MSMW) experience high HIV rates and may not respond to interventions targeting gay-identified men. We tested the efficacy of the Men of African American Legacy Empowering Self (MAALES), a multisession, small-group holistically framed intervention designed to build skills, address sociocultural issues, and reduce risk behaviors in black MSMW.
Applying a community resilience framework to examine household emergency planning and exposure-reducing behavior among residents of Louisiana's industrial corridor.	Residents facing environmental hazards can take steps to reduce their exposure risks, and these actions may be considered adaptations that can enhance the overall resilience of communities. Applying concepts from social-ecological resilience theory, the authors examine emergency planning and exposure-reducing behaviors among residents of the upper Industrial Corridor of Louisiana and explore the extent to which the behaviors are associated with key theoretical influences on community resilience: exposure, vulnerability, and the "adaptive capacity" of residents. The behaviors of interest are adoption of a household emergency plan in the case of acute exposure events (like chemical spills), and limiting outdoor activities in response to Air Quality Index reports, thus potentially reducing chronic exposure risks. Statistical analyses indicate that adaptive behaviors are associated both with greater exposure to hazards and confidence in one's knowledge and ability to reduce exposure risks. Thus, the study yields evidence that "adaptive capacity" is particularly relevant to understanding and encouraging household emergency planning. Residents who believe that they are well-informed about risk-reducing strategies, regardless of education or income, were found to be more likely to have adopted these measures. Evidence that knowledge and confidence levels are linked to adaptive behaviors is good news for those working in public education and outreach programs, as these are attitudes and skills that can be nurtured. While factors associated with exposure and vulnerability to hazards are difficult to change, knowledge of risk-reducing strategies and confidence in one's abilities to reduce exposure risks can be improved through well-designed public education efforts.
HIV testing and sexual risk reduction counseling in office-based buprenorphine/naloxone treatment.	We assessed the feasibility and preliminary efficacy of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) testing with sexual risk reduction counseling for opioid-dependent patients initiating office-based buprenorphine/naloxone treatment.
Whole-body insulin resistance is associated with elevated serum -fetoprotein levels in patients with chronic hepatitis C.	Little is known about the relationship between elevated serum -fetoprotein (AFP) levels and insulin resistance, which adversely influence the clinical course of chronic hepatitis C (CHC). Therefore, we investigated the association between serum AFP and insulin resistance in patients with CHC.
Characteristics of selected clinical features in BRCA1 mutation carriers affected with breast cancer undergoing preventive female genital tract surgeries]	Evaluation of patient age and time of the prophylactic surgery as well as incidence of genital cancers and precancerous states observed in histopathology of the postoperative material from BRCA1 gene mutation carriers previously treated for breast cancer.
Efficacy of a nurse-led email reminder program for cardiovascular prevention risk reduction in hypertensive patients: a randomized controlled trial.	Many strategies have been evaluated to improve the prevention and control of cardiovascular (CVD) risk factors. Nursing telephonic and tele-counseling individualized lifestyle educational programs have been found to improve blood pressure control and adherence to lifestyle recommendation. This study tested the efficacy of a nurse-led reminder program through email (NRP-e) to improve CVD risk factors among hypertensive adults.
Lifestyle interventions for diabetes mellitus type 2 prevention.	Transferring the results from clinical trials on type 2 diabetes prevention is the objective of the Diabetes in Europe-Prevention using Lifestyle, Physical Activity and Nutritional intervention (DE-PLAN) project in Catalonia, whose cost-effectiveness analysis is now presented.
The effect of simvastatin-ezetimibe combination therapy on adipose tissue hormones and systemic inflammation in patients with isolated hypercholesterolemia.	Pleiotropic effects of ezetimibe have only been investigated in a few studies. The aim of this article was to compare the effects of simvastatin and the combined treatment with simvastatin and ezetimibe on low-grade systemic inflammation and plasma levels of selected adipokines in patients with isolated hypercholesterolemia.
Eliciting affect via immersive virtual reality: a tool for adolescent risk reduction.	A virtual reality environment (VRE) was designed to expose participants to substance use and sexual risk-taking cues to examine the utility of VR in eliciting adolescent physiological arousal.
The 'Healthy Dads, Healthy Kids' community randomized controlled trial: a community-based healthy lifestyle program for fathers and their children.	To evaluate the effectiveness of the 'Healthy Dads, Healthy Kids (HDHK)' program when delivered by trained facilitators in community settings.
Diets to prevent coronary heart disease 1957-2013: what have we learned?	Our understanding of the potential cardioprotective properties of nutrition is relatively recent, with most relevant studies completed in the last several decades. During that time, there has been an evolution in the focus of nutritional intervention. Early trials emphasized reduction of dietary fat with the goal of preventing heart disease by reducing serum cholesterol. Results from trials focused exclusively on dietary fat reduction were disappointing, prompting subsequent studies incorporating a whole diet approach with a nuanced recommendation for fat intake. The Mediterranean-style diet, with a focus on vegetables, fruit, fish, whole grains, and olive oil, has proven to reduce cardiovascular events to a degree greater than low-fat diets and equal to or greater than the benefit observed in statin trials. 
The impact of two workplace-based health risk appraisal interventions on employee lifestyle parameters, mental health and work ability: results of a randomized controlled trial.	Health risk appraisals (HRA) are a common type of workplace health promotion programme offered by American employers. In the United Kingdom, evidence of their effectiveness for promoting health behaviour change remains inconclusive. This randomized controlled trial examined the effects of two HRA interventions on lifestyle parameters, mental health and work ability in a UK context. A total of 180 employees were randomized into one of three groups: Group A (HRA augmented with health promotion and education activities), Group B (HRA only) and Group C (control, no intervention). After 12 months, changes in mean scoring in 10 lifestyle, mental health and work ability indices were compared, Groups A and B demonstrated non-significant improvements in 70% and 80%, respectively, compared with controls (40%). Odds ratios revealed that, compared with the control group, Group A was 29.2 (95% CI: 9.22-92.27) times more likely to report a perceived change in lifestyle behaviour; Group B 4.4 times (95% CI: 1.65-11.44). In conclusion, participation in the HRA was associated with a higher likelihood of perceived lifestyle behaviour change which was further increased in the augmented HRA group, thereby providing preliminary evidence that HRA and augmented HRA in particular may help UK employees make positive healthy lifestyle changes. 
Postprandial effects of long-term niacin/laropiprant use on glucose and lipid metabolism and on cardiovascular risk in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome.	This study investigated the effect of long-term niacin/laropiprant therapy on CV risk and IR in obese women with PCOS.
Derivation and validation of a set of 10-year cardiovascular risk predictive functions in Spain: the FRESCO Study.	To derive and validate a set of functions to predict coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke, and validate the Framingham-REGICOR function.
Knowledge deficit of patients with stage 1-4 CKD: a focus group study.	Patients with early-stage chronic kidney disease (CKD) must make lifestyle modifications and adhere to treatment regimens to prevent their progression to end-stage kidney disease. The aim of this study was to elicit the perspectives of patients with stage 1-4 CKD about their disease, with a specific focus on their information needs in managing and living with CKD and its sequelae.
The impact of personalized risk feedback on Mexican Americans' perceived risk for heart disease and diabetes.	Little is known about the effect of personalized risk information on risk perceptions over time, particularly among ethnically diverse subpopulations. The present study examines Mexican American's (MAs) risk perceptions for heart disease and diabetes at baseline and following receipt of risk feedback based on family health history. Participants comprising 162 households received a pedigree or personalized risk feedback, with or without behavioral risk reduction recommendations. Multiple logistic regression analyses were used to assess lifetime perceived risk (LPR) at baseline, 3 months and 10 months following the receipt of risk feedback. Having an elevated familial risk of heart disease or diabetes increased the odds of an elevated LPR for both diseases at baseline. At 3 months, compared with receipt of a pedigree only, MAs receiving elevated risk feedback for both diseases were more likely to have an elevated LPR for both diseases. At 10 months, participants receiving weak risk feedback for both diseases indicated an adjustment to a lower LPR for heart disease only. Results suggest that communicating risk for multiple diseases may be more effective than a single disease, with responses to increased risk feedback more immediate than to weak risk feedback. 
Families United/Familias Unidas: family group office visits to reduce risk factors for type 2 diabetes.	The purpose of the Families United/Familias Unidas study was to evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of group office visits on reducing diabetes risk in a multiethnic, primary care population.
Cortisol diurnal patterns, associations with depressive symptoms, and the impact of intervention in older adults: results using modern robust methods aimed at dealing with low power due to violations of standard assumptions.	Advances in salivary bioscience enable the widespread integration of biological measures into the behavioral and social sciences. While theoretical integration has progressed, much less attention has focused on analytical strategies and tactics. The statistical literature warns that common methods for comparing groups and studying associations can have relatively poor power compared to more modern robust techniques. Here we illustrate, in secondary data analyses using the USC Well Elderly II study (n=460, age 60-95, 66% female), that modern robust methods make a substantial difference when analyzing relations between salivary analyte and behavioral data. Analyses that deal with the diurnal pattern of cortisol and the association of the cortisol awakening response with depressive symptoms and physical well-being are reported. Non-significant results become significant when using improved methods for dealing with skewed distributions and outliers. Analytical strategies and tactics that employ modern robust methods have the potential to reduce the probability of both Type I and Type II errors in studies that compare salivary analytes between groups, across time, or examine associations with salivary analyte levels. 
Treatment of lipid disorders]	Lipid disorders play an essential role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic diseases. An integral part of the clinical evaluation is the estimation of the individual cardiovascular risk using risk scores and patient history. Due to the long established prognostic relevance, reduction of low-density lipoproteins (LDL) using statins remains beyond doubt the central intervention both in primary and secondary prevention of atherosclerotic diseases. Indispensible components of treatment in all patients with elevated triglyceride levels are lifestyle changes contributing to a reduction of accompanying risk factors, in particular physical activity and smoking cessation. 
Pregnant women living with HIV (WLH) supported at clinics by peer WLH: a cluster randomized controlled trial.	Throughout Africa, Peer Mentors who are women living with HIV (WLH) are supporting pregnant WLH at antenatal and primary healthcare clinics (McColl in BMJ 344:e1590, 2012). We evaluate a program using this intervention strategy at 1.5months post-birth. In a cluster randomized controlled trial in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, eight clinics were randomized for their WLH to receive either: standard care (SC), based on national guidelines to prevent mother-to-child transmission (4 clinics; n=656 WLH); or an enhanced intervention (EI; 4 clinics; n=544 WLH). The EI consisted of four antenatal and four postnatal small group sessions led by Peer Mentors, in addition to SC. WLH were recruited during pregnancy and 70% were reassessed at 1.5months post-birth. EI's effect was ascertained on 16 measures of maternal and infant well-being using random effects regressions to control for clinic clustering. A binomial test for correlated outcomes evaluated EI's overall effectiveness. Among EI WLH reassessed, 87% attended at least one intervention session (mean 4.1, SD 2.0). Significant overall benefits were found in EI compared to SC using the binomial test. However, it is important to note that EI WLH were significantly less likely to adhere to ARV during pregnancy compared to SC. Secondarily, compared to SC, EI WLH were more likely to ask partners to test for HIV, better protected their infants from HIV transmission, and were less likely to have depressed mood and stunted infants. Adherence to clinic intervention groups was low, yet, there were benefits for maternal and infant health at 1.5months post-birth. 
Systemic preexposure prophylaxis for HIV: translating clinical data to clinical practice.	To assess the real-world implications of oral tenofovir-emtricitabine (TDF-FTC) for HIV preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP) in clinical practice and highlight important considerations for its implementation.
Biannual fluoride varnish applications and caries incidence in preschoolers: a 24-month follow-up randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial.	Sound evidence on the effectiveness of fluoride varnishes (FV) to reduce caries incidence in preschool children is lacking.
Outcomes of a church-based diabetes prevention program delivered by peers: a feasibility study.	This purpose of this study was to investigate the feasibility and potential health impact of a church-based diabetes prevention program delivered by peers.
The partners for life program: a couples approach to cardiac risk reduction.	Morbidity and mortality are reliably lower for the married compared with the unmarried across a variety of illnesses. What is less well understood is how a couple uses their relationship for recommended lifestyle changes associated with decreased risk for illness. Partners for Life compared a patient and partner approach to behavior change with a patient only approach on such factors as exercise, nutrition, and medication adherence. Ninety-three patients and their spouses/partners consented to participate (26% of those eligible) and were randomized into either the individual or couples condition. However, only 80 couples, distributed across conditions, contributed data to the analyses, due to missing data and missing data points. For exercise, there was a significant effect of couples treatment on the increase in activity and a significant effect of couples treatment on the acceleration of treatment over time. In addition, there was an interaction between marital satisfaction and treatment condition such that patients who reported higher levels of marital distress in the individuals condition did not maintain their physical activity gains by the end of treatment, while both distressed and nondistressed patients in the couples treatment exhibited accelerating gains throughout treatment. In terms of medication adherence, patients in the couples treatment exhibited virtually no change in medication adherence over time, while patients in the individuals treatment showed a 9% relative decrease across time. There were no condition or time effects for nutritional outcomes. Finally, there was an interaction between baseline marital satisfaction and treatment condition such that patients in the individuals condition who reported lower levels of initial marital satisfaction showed deterioration in marital satisfaction, while non satisfied patients in the couples treatment showed improvement over time.
Walnuts decrease risk of cardiovascular disease: a summary of efficacy and biologic mechanisms.	Given the pressing need to reduce cardiovascular disease (CVD) morbidity and mortality, there has been a focus on optimizing dietary patterns to reduce the many contributing risk factors. Over the past 2 decades, many studies have been conducted that have evaluated the effects of walnut consumption on CVD risk factors. Walnuts have been shown to decrease low density lipoprotein cholesterol (by 9-16%) and blood pressure (diastolic blood pressure by 2-3 mm Hg), 2 major risk factors for CVD. In addition, walnuts improve endothelial function, decrease both oxidative stress and some markers of inflammation, and increase cholesterol efflux. The effect of walnuts on multiple CVD targets over relatively short periods of time supports recommendations for their inclusion in a heart-healthy diet. 
Colchicine for prevention of atrial fibrillation recurrence after pulmonary vein isolation: mid-term efficacy and effect on quality of life.	Our group previously showed that colchicine treatment is associated with decreased early recurrence rate after ablation for atrial fibrillation (AF).
The dangers of the day of birth.	To compare the risk of fetal death on the day of childbirth, with the risk of death at other ages, and with the risks of some hazardous activities, on a common scale of risk per day.
Update on pediatric hyperlipidemia.	The purpose of this study is to review the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute (NHBLI) guidelines on screening and management of hyperlipidemia in children and to discuss the critics concerns regarding universal screening.
Outcomes of a behavioral intervention to reduce HIV risk among drug-involved female sex workers.	Although street-based female sex workers (FSWs) are highly vulnerable to HIV, they often lack access to needed health services and medical care. This paper reports the results of a recently completed randomized intervention trial for FSWs in Miami, Florida, which tested the relative efficacy of two case management interventions that aimed to link underserved FSWs with health services and to reduce risk behaviors for HIV. Participants were recruited using targeted sampling strategies and were randomly assigned to: a Strengths-Based/Professional Only (PO) or a Strengths-Based/Professional-Peer condition (PP). Follow-up data were collected 3 and 6months post-baseline. Outcome analyses indicated that both intervention groups displayed significant reductions in HIV risk behaviors and significant increases in services utilization; the Professional-Peer condition provided no added benefit. HIV seropositive FSWs responded particularly well to the interventions, suggesting the utility of brief strengths-based case management interventions for this population in future initiatives. 
High diet quality is associated with a lower risk of cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality in older men.	Although diet quality is implicated in cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk, few studies have investigated the relation between diet quality and the risks of CVD and mortality in older adults. This study examined the prospective associations between dietary scores and risk of CVD and all-cause mortality in older British men. A total of 3328 men (aged 60-79 y) from the British Regional Heart Study, free from CVD at baseline, were followed up for 11.3 y for CVD and mortality. Baseline food-frequency questionnaire data were used to generate 2 dietary scores: the Healthy Diet Indicator (HDI), based on WHO dietary guidelines, and the Elderly Dietary Index (EDI), based on a Mediterranean-style dietary intake, with higher scores indicating greater compliance with dietary recommendations. Cox proportional hazards regression analyses assessed associations between quartiles of HDI and EDI and risk of all-cause mortality, CVD mortality, CVD events, and coronary heart disease (CHD) events. During follow-up, 933 deaths, 327 CVD deaths, 582 CVD events, and 307 CHD events occurred. Men in the highest compared with the lowest EDI quartile had significantly lower risks of all-cause mortality (HR: 0.75; 95% CI: 0.60, 0.94; P-trend = 0.03), CVD mortality (HR: 0.63; 95% CI: 0.42, 0.94; P-trend = 0.03), and CHD events (HR: 0.66; 95% CI: 0.45, 0.97; P-trend = 0.05) but not CVD events (HR: 0.79; 95% CI: 0.60, 1.05; P-trend = 0.16) after adjustment for sociodemographic, behavioral, and cardiovascular risk factors. The HDI was not significantly associated with any of the outcomes. The EDI appears to be more useful than the HDI for assessing diet quality in relation to CVD and morality risk in older men. Encouraging older adults to adhere to the guidelines inherent in the EDI criteria may have public health benefits. 
Associations between dietary fiber and colorectal polyp risk differ by polyp type and smoking status.	The association of dietary fiber intake with colorectal cancer risk is established. However, the association may differ between cigarette smokers and nonsmokers. We evaluated this hypothesis in a large colonoscopy-based case-control study. Dietary fiber intakes were estimated by self-administered food frequency questionnaire. Unconditional logistic regression analysis was used to estimate ORs and 95% CIs with adjustment for potential confounders. Analysis also was stratified by cigarette smoking and sex. High dietary fiber intake was associated with reduced risk of colorectal polyps (P-trend = 0.003). This association was found to be stronger among cigarette smokers (P-trend = 0.006) than nonsmokers (P-trend = 0.21), although the test for multiplicative interaction was not statistically significant (P = 0.11). This pattern of association was more evident for high-risk adenomatous polyps (ADs), defined as advanced or multiple ADs (P-interaction smoking and dietary fiber intake = 0.09). Among cigarette smokers who smoked 23 y, a 38% reduced risk of high-risk ADs was found to be associated with high intake of dietary fiber compared with those in the lowest quartile fiber intake group (P-trend = 0.004). No inverse association with dietary fiber intake was observed for low-risk ADs, defined as single nonadvanced ADs. Cigarette smoking may modify the association of dietary fiber intake with the risk of colorectal polyps, especially high-risk ADs, a well-established precursor of colorectal cancer. 
The formation of short-chain fatty acids is positively associated with the blood lipid-lowering effect of lupin kernel fiber in moderately hypercholesterolemic adults.	Lupin kernel fiber beneficially modifies blood lipids because of its bile acid-binding capacity. The aim of this study was to evaluate the preventive effects of a lupin kernel fiber preparation on cardiovascular diseases and to clarify possible mechanisms. In a randomized, double-blind, controlled crossover trial, 60 moderately hypercholesterolemic adults (plasma total cholesterol: >5.2 mmol/L) passed 3 intervention periods in different orders with a 2-wk washout phase between each. Participants consumed either a high-fiber diet containing 25-g/d lupin kernel fiber (LF) or citrus fiber (CF), or a low-fiber control diet (CD) for 4 wk each. Anthropometric, plasma, and fecal variables were assessed at baseline and after the interventions. Contrary to the CF period, total (9%) and LDL (12%) cholesterol as well as triacylglycerols (10%) were lower after the LF period when compared with the CD period [P  0.02, adjusted for baseline, age, gender, and body mass index (BMI)]. HDL cholesterol remained unchanged. Moreover, the LF period reduced high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (P = 0.02) and systolic blood pressure (P = 0.01) when compared with baseline. Bile acid binding could not be shown because the excretion of total bile acids remained constant after the high-fiber diets. However, the LF period resulted in an enhanced formation of the main short-chain fatty acids in comparison with the CD period. During the CF period, only acetate increased significantly. Both high-fiber diets led to higher satiety and modified nutritional behavior, resulting in significantly lower body weight, BMI, and waist circumference compared with the CD period. The blood lipid-lowering effects of LF are apparently not a result of bile acid binding. Rather, we hypothesize for the first time, to our knowledge, that the blood lipid-lowering effects of LF may be mainly attributed to the formation of short-chain fatty acids, specifically propionate and acetate. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01035086. 
The relationship between alcohol consumption and vascular complications and mortality in individuals with type 2 diabetes.	Moderate alcohol consumption has been associated with a reduced risk of mortality and coronary artery disease. The relationship between cardiovascular health and alcohol use in type 2 diabetes is less clear. The current study assesses the effects of alcohol use among participants in the Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron Modified-Release Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE) trial.
Stepping towards causation in studies of neighborhood and environmental effects: how twin research can overcome problems of selection and reverse causation.	No causal evidence is available to translate associations between neighborhood characteristics and health outcomes into beneficial changes to built environments. Observed associations may be causal or result from uncontrolled confounds related to family upbringing. Twin designs can help neighborhood effects studies overcome selection and reverse causation problems in specifying causal mechanisms. Beyond quantifying genetic effects (i.e., heritability coefficients), we provide examples of innovative measures and analytic methods that use twins as quasi-experimental controls for confounding by environmental effects. We conclude that collaboration among investigators from multiple fields can move the field forward by designing studies that step toward causation. 
Effect of a 6-month intervention with cooking oils containing a high concentration of monounsaturated fatty acids (olive and canola oils) compared with control oil in male Asian Indians with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	We investigated the effects of dietary intervention with canola or olive oil in comparison with commonly used refined oil in Asian Indians with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
Irritable bowel syndrome: the evolution of multi-dimensional looking and multidisciplinary treatments.	Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is common in the society. Among the putative pathogeneses, gut dysmotility results in pain and disturbed defecation. The latter is probably caused by the effect of abnormal gut water secretion. The interaction between abnormal gas accumulation, abdominal pain and bloating remains controversial. Visceral hypersensitivity and its modification along with the central transmission are the characteristics of IBS patients. The identification of biologic markers based on genetic polymorphisms is undetermined. Imbalanced gut microbiota may alter epithelial permeability to activate nociceptive sensory pathways which in turn lead to IBS. Certain food constituents may exacerbate bowel symptoms. The impact of adult and childhood abuses on IBS is underestimated. Using the concept of biopsychosocial dysfunction can integrate multidimensional pathogeneses. Antispasmodics plus stool consistency modifiers to treat the major symptoms and defecation are the first-line drug treatment. New drugs targeting receptors governing bowel motility, sensation and secretion can be considered, but clinicians must be aware of their potential serious side effects. Psychiatric drugs and modalities may be the final options for treating intractable subjects. Probiotics of multi-species preparations are safe and worth to be considered for the treatment. Antibiotics are promising but their long-term safety and effectiveness are unknown. Diet therapy including exclusion of certain food constituents is an economic measure. Using relatively safe complementary and alternative medicines (CAMs) may be optional to those patients who failed classical treatment. In conclusion, IBS is a heterogeneous disorder with multidimensional pathogeneses. Personalized medicines with multidisciplinary approaches using different classes of drugs, psychiatric measures, probiotics and antibiotics, dietary therapy, and finally CAMs, can be considered. 
Cardiovascular results of an individually controlled complex prevention.	Lifestyle modifications (increased level of physical activity, favourable nutrition, and stress management) are important factors in the prevention of and the therapy for cardiovascular (CV) diseases.
Complex systems and health behavior change: insights from cognitive science.	To provide proof-of-concept that quantum health behavior can be instantiated as a computational model that is informed by cognitive science, the Theory of Reasoned Action, and quantum health behavior theory.
Group-based lifestyle sessions for gestational weight gain management: a mixed method approach.	To integrate group-based lifestyle sessions (GBLS) within prenatal care for gestational weight gain (GWG) management.
Communicating risk and promoting disease mitigation measures in epidemics and emerging disease settings.	This review aims to identify and assess evidence on interventions to communicate risk and promote disease mitigation measures in epidemics and emerging disease outbreak settings. The study focuses on data that are relevant to low and middle-income country (LMIC) settings.
Mitigating operating room fires: development of a carbon dioxide fire prevention device.	Operating room fires are sentinel events that present a real danger to surgical patients and occur at least as frequently as wrong-sided surgery. For fire to occur, the 3 points of the fire triad must be present: an oxidizer, an ignition source, and fuel source. The electrosurgical unit (ESU) pencil triggers most operating room fires. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a gas that prevents ignition and suppresses fire by displacing oxygen. We hypothesize that a device can be created to reduce operating room fires by generating a cone of CO2 around the ESU pencil tip. One such device was created by fabricating a divergent nozzle and connecting it to a CO2 source. This device was then placed over the ESU pencil, allowing the tip to be encased in a cone of CO2 gas. The device was then tested in 21%, 50%, and 100% oxygen environments. The ESU was activated at 50 W cut mode while placing the ESU pencil tip on a laparotomy sponge resting on an aluminum test plate for up to 30 seconds or until the sponge ignited. High-speed videography was used to identify time of ignition. Each test was performed in each oxygen environment 5 times with the device activated (CO2 flow 8 L/min) and with the device deactivated (no CO2 flow-control). In addition, 3-dimensional spatial mapping of CO2 concentrations was performed with a CO2 sampling device. The median  SD [range] ignition time of the control group in 21% oxygen was 2.9 s  0.44 [2.3-3.0], in 50% oxygen 0.58 s  0.12 [0.47-0.73], and in 100% oxygen 0.48 s  0.50 [0.03-1.27]. Fires were ignited with each control trial (15/15); no fires ignited when the device was used (0/15, P < 0.0001). The CO2 concentration at the end of the ESU pencil tip was 95%, while the average CO2 concentration 1 to 1.4 cm away from the pencil tip on the bottom plane was 64%. In conclusion, an operating room fire prevention device can be created by using a divergent nozzle design through which CO2 passes, creating a cone of fire suppressant. This device as demonstrated in a flammability model effectively reduced the risk of fire. CO2 3-dimensional spatial mapping suggests effective fire reduction at least 1 cm away from the tip of the ESU pencil at 8 L/min CO2 flow. Future testing should determine optimum CO2 flow rates and ideal nozzle shapes. Use of this device may substantially reduce the risk of patient injury due to operating room fires. 
The projected effect of risk factor reduction on major depression incidence: a 16-year longitudinal Canadian cohort of the National Population Health Survey.	Few studies have examined the effect of risk factor modification on depression incidence. This study estimated the effect of risk factor modification on depression incidence.
Review of the epidemiological evidence for physical activity and health from low- and middle-income countries.	Almost 80% of deaths from non-communicable diseases (NCDs) occur in low- and middle-income countries. Physical inactivity is a key risk factor for NCDs. Enhancing understanding of the scientific evidence linking physical activity and health in low- and middle-income countries is important for supporting national efforts to promote physical activity and reduce NCDs in these countries. A systematic review of three electronic databases was conducted in July 2013, including large population-based epidemiological studies with adult participants, conducted in low- and middle-income countries, and published in the past 30 years. Physical activity was consistently associated with a reduced risk of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular disease (CVD), diabetes and several types of cancer. Positive associations were also found between physical activity and body composition (including overweight and obesity), blood pressure, cholesterol, metabolic indices and bone mineral density. Overall, the results confirm that the epidemiological research into the health benefits of physical activity in low- and middle-income countries is consistent with previous research conducted in high-income countries. This summary of the available research can be used as an advocacy tool in low- and middle-income countries to support greater prominence of physical activity in NCD policies. 
Patient and physician characteristics associated with the provision of weight loss counseling in primary care.	A variety of physician and patient characteristics may influence whether weight loss counseling occurs in primary care encounters.
GPs, families and children's perceptions of childhood obesity.	Childhood obesity has a high risk of becoming a chronic disease requiring life-long weight management. Evidence based guidelines were developed and distributed to GPs throughout Australia by the NHMRC, but current application falls short. Measuring height and weight, and calculating BMI for children appears to be rare. Some general practitioners (GPs) perceive significant barriers to managing this patient cohort, and patients report not having confidence in their GPs.
Preclinical tests of an android based dietary logging application.	The paper describes the first, preclinical evaluation of a dietary logging application developed at the University of Pannonia, Hungary. The mobile user interface is briefly introduced. The three evaluation phases examined the completeness and contents of the dietary database and the time expenditure of the mobile based diet logging procedure. The results show that although there are substantial individual differences between various dietary databases, the expectable difference with respect to nutrient contents is below 10% on typical institutional menu list. Another important finding is that the time needed to record the meals can be reduced to about 3 minutes daily especially if the user uses set-based search.
Combined model for diabetes lifestyle support.	Treatment of diabetes mellitus is a public health related problem of modern healthcare. Surveys show that current methods to estimate the required amount of insulin are quite inefficient in practice as they are based on experience. This paper offers a new approach to predict the glucose level of people with diabetes. It combines two efficient models of the literature: one for nutrient absorption and one for glucose control. The combination of them tracks the blood sugar level considering nutrition composition, applied insulin and initial glucose level. Compared to already existing mixed meal models, the current version takes into account a more detailed nutrition composition (protein, lipid, monosaccharide, fiber and starch) supported by our expert dietary systems. Although the model gives satisfactory results even with parameter sets taken from literature, parameter training by genetic algorithms yields a better tracking of the patients. 
Evidence-based HIV/STD prevention intervention for black men who have sex with men.	This report summarizes published findings of a community-based organization in New York City that evaluated and demonstrated the efficacy of the Many Men, Many Voices (3MV) human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/sexually transmitted disease (STD) prevention intervention in reducing sexual risk behaviors and increasing protective behaviors among black men who have sex with men (MSM). The intervention addressed social determinants of health (e.g., stigma, discrimination, and homophobia) that can influence the health and well-being of black MSM at high risk for HIV infection. This report also highlights efforts by CDC to disseminate this evidence-based behavioral intervention throughout the United States. CDC's Office of Minority Health and Health Equity selected the intervention analysis and discussion to provide an example of a program that might be effective for reducing HIV infection- and STD-related disparities in the United States. 3MV uses small group education and interaction to increase knowledge and change attitudes and behaviors related to HIV/STD risk among black MSM. Since its dissemination by CDC in 2004, 3MV has been used in many settings, including health department- and community-based organization programs. The 3MV intervention is an important component of a comprehensive HIV and STD prevention portfolio for at-risk black MSM. As CDC continues to support HIV prevention programming consistent with the National HIV/AIDS Strategy and its high-impact HIV prevention approach, 3MV will remain an important tool for addressing the needs of black MSM at high risk for HIV infection and other STDs. 
Ischemic heart disease and the Mediterranean diet.	Lifestyle modification is primary in cardiovascular (CV) disease prevention. A major contribution is the Mediterranean diet (MedDiet), defined by two of seven components. Italian investigators determined a significant decrease in peripheral arterial disease of 56 % for a high score. Multiple specific CV risk factors are also favorably modified by the MedDiet. This includes beneficial effect on inflammation, vascular endothelium, and insulin resistance. There is also evidence that coronary heart disease, diabetes mellitus, and metabolic syndrome are decreased. Benefit appears to extend to new migrants in France. The economics of dietary adherence are favorable with decreased total lifetime health costs. Although mixed nuts appear to be a major factor in the MedDiet, special emphasis goes to extra virgin olive oil. Benefit also extends to other noncommunicable diseases with a decrease in cancer, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease. Further quantitation of benefit and understanding of mechanisms involved in dietary benefit is essential.
Cardiovascular risk stratification and management in pre-diabetes.	Prediabetes, covering individuals with impaired fasting glycemia, impaired glucose tolerance, or high-risk HbA1c levels, is associated with a 20 % increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease (CVD) compared with normoglycemic individuals. It is well-known that lifestyle or pharmacologic interventions can prevent diabetes in prediabetic people; however, the evidence is less clear regarding prevention of CVD. Most diabetes prevention trials have failed to show beneficial effects on CVD morbidity and mortality despite significant improvements of CVD risk factors in individuals with prediabetes. Another challenge is how to estimate CVD risk in prediabetic people. In general, prediction models for CVD do not take glucose levels or prediabetes status into account, thereby underestimating CVD risk in these high-risk individuals. More evidence within risk stratification and management of CVD risk in prediabetes is needed in order to recommend useful and effective strategies for early prevention of CVD.
Some aspects of prevention activity of the teacher, directed to the improvement of the health of schoolchildren]	The problem of bottom quality of prevention work directed to the saving and strengthening the health of schoolchildren, today is a very urgent and requires a joint activity of the pedagogical and medical community. In the article there are presented data proving the feasibility of an active teacher's work on the formation of health saving space in a present school. Conspicuous is the interest of schoolchildren to the problems of a healthy lifestyle during performance of interesting preventive measures with them and as a result risk mitigation subsequently. At the same time, there was noted a low level of training teachers in various fields (including biologists) on specialized problems of the prevention of healthy lifestyles, which points to the need for introduction into the curricula of higher educational institutions additional modules on health saving, as well as conducting training courses involving health care workers as for teachers as parents.
The negative effects of obesity and poor glycemic control on cognitive function: a proposed model for possible mechanisms.	Obesity has reached epidemic proportions and is a contributor to many adverse health outcomes, including increased risk for dementia and adverse structural and functional brain changes. Milder forms of cognitive impairment in multiple domains can also be found in obese individuals of all ages that are believed to stem from brain abnormalities long prior to onset of neurologic conditions such as dementia. However, the mechanisms for adverse brain changes and subsequent cognitive dysfunction in obesity are complex and poorly understood. This paper proposes a possible etiologic model for obesity associated cognitive impairment with emphasis on the role of poor glycemic control and conditions like type 2 diabetes mellitus. Clinical implications associated with treatment of obesity in persons with cognitive deficits in addition to the cognitive promoting effects of weight loss surgery are also discussed. 
Pathophysiology, prevention, and treatment of commotio cordis.	Commotio cordis is increasing described and it is now clear that this phenomenon is an important cause of sudden cardiac death on the playing field. Victims are predominantly young, male, and struck in the left chest with a ball. An animal model has been developed and utilized to explore the important variables and mechanism of commotio cordis. Impact during a narrow window of repolarization causes ventricular fibrillation. Other important variables include location, velocity, shape, and hardness of the impact object. Biological characteristics such as gender, pliability of the chest wall, and genetic susceptibility also play a role in commotio cordis. The mechanism of ventricular fibrillation appears to be an increase in heterogeneity of repolarization caused by induced abnormalities of ion channels activated by abrupt increases in left ventricular pressure. In the setting of altered repolarization a trigger of ventricular depolarization (premature ventricular depolarization caused directly by the chest blow) initiates a spiral wave that quickly breaks down into ventricular fibrillation. Prevention of commotio cordis is possible. Improved recognition and resuscitation have led to an improvement in outcome.
Physical activity and cancer prevention: awareness and meeting the recommendations among adult Saudis.	There is a scarcity of information about the proportion of the adult Saudi population that meet the recommended guidelines of physical activity (PA) to reduce cancer risk. Moreover, their awareness about the role of PA in cancer prevention is unclear.
