Effects of clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone, and haloperidol on hostility among patients with schizophrenia.	This study compared the specific antiaggressive effects of clozapine with those of olanzapine, risperidone, and haloperidol.
Neuroendocrine responsivities of the pituitary dopamine system in male schizophrenic patients during treatment with clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone, sulpiride, or haloperidol.	Atypical antipsychotic drugs, in clinical doses, occupy 5-HT2 receptors near saturation, while D2 dopamine receptors, assessed usually in striatum by SPECT or PET methods, are occupied to different degrees.We hypothesized that these differences in D2 receptor occupancies may also be evaluated by a neuroendocrine approach, namely by measuring the plasma prolactin responses to i. m. administered haloperidol, since the expected elevations depend mainly on the free remaining D2 receptors in the tuberoinfundibular tract.
Effects of risperidone, an atypical antipsychotic drug, on excitatory synaptic responses in the perforant path-dentate gyrus pathway in chronically prepared rabbits.	The effects of an atypical antipsychotic drug, risperidone, were examined on excitatory synaptic responses in the dentate gyrus by single electrical stimulations to the perforant path and the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in this pathway in chronically prepared rabbits. Any of 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg doses of risperidone intraperitoneally injected had virtually no effect on the excitatory synaptic responses. However, these three doses of risperidone dose-dependently suppressed the LTP induction.
Potent antagonism of 5-HT(3) and 5-HT(6) receptors by olanzapine.	The interaction of the psychotropic agent olanzapine with serotonin 5-HT(3) and 5-HT(6) receptors was investigated. Olanzapine did not contract the isolated guinea pig ileum, but blocked contractions induced by the 5-HT(3) receptor agonist 2-methyl serotonin (2-CH(3) 5-HT) with a pK(B) value of 6.38+/-0.03, close to the affinity of the 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist ondansetron. The atypical antipsychotic risperidone (1 microM) did not significantly inhibit 2-CH(3) 5-HT-induced contractions. Olanzapine had high affinity (pK(i)=8.30+/-0.06) for human 5-HT(6) receptors in radioligand binding studies. Olanzapine did not stimulate [35S]guanosine-5'-O-(3-thio)triphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) binding to the G protein G(s) in cells containing human 5-HT(6) receptors, but inhibited 5-HT-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding (pK(B)=7.38+/-0.16). Among other antipsychotics investigated, clozapine antagonized 5-HT(6) receptors with a pK(B)=7.42+/-0.15, ziprasidone was three-fold less potent, and risperidone, quetiapine and haloperidol were weak antagonists. Thus, olanzapine was not an agonist, but was a potent antagonist at 5-HT(6) receptors and had marked antagonism at 5-HT(3) receptors.
Risperidone attenuates the discriminative-stimulus effects of d-amphetamine in humans.	Studies conducted with nonhuman laboratory animals have consistently shown that atypical antipsychotics that are mixed dopamine and serotonin antagonists attenuate the discriminative-stimulus effects of amphetamine. In the present experiment, eight healthy humans learned to discriminate 15 mg of oral d-amphetamine. After acquiring the discrimination (i.e., > or = 80% correct responding on four consecutive days), the effects of a range of doses of d-amphetamine (0, 2.5, 5, 10, and 15 mg), alone and after pretreatment with risperidone (0 and 1 mg), a D2 dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)2 serotonin antagonist, were assessed. d-Amphetamine alone functioned as a discriminative stimulus and produced stimulant-like self-reported drug effects (e.g., increased ratings of "like drug"). These effects were generally a function of dose. Risperidone alone did not occasion d-amphetamine-appropriate responding, but impaired performance. Risperidone pretreatment significantly attenuated the discriminative-stimulus effects of d-amphetamine, and some of the self-reported drug effects. The results of the present experiment suggest that combining drug-discrimination and self-reported drug-effect questionnaires may be an effective strategy for assessing the behavioral effects of agonist-antagonist interactions. Future studies should compare the behavioral effects of d-amphetamine after pretreatment with a selective D2 dopamine (e.g., haloperidol) or 5-HT2 serotonin (e.g., ritanserin) antagonist to determine the relative contribution of dopamine and serotonin systems in mediating the behavioral effects of stimulants in humans. The results of these studies might guide the development of a pharmacotherapy for the treatment of amphetamine abuse/dependence.
The effects of antipsychotic drug treatment on prolactin concentrations in elderly patients.	To describe the change in serum prolactin concentrations in elderly agitated nursing home patients with dementia who were newly initiated on olanzapine or switched to olanzapine treatment from either conventional antipsychotics or risperidone.
Memantine, an NMDA antagonist, prevents the development of hyperthermia in an animal model for serotonin syndrome.	Serotonin (5-HT) syndrome is the most serious side effect of antidepressants. Although several drugs have been used for the treatment of 5-HT syndrome, a universal pharmacotherapy has not been established. NMDA receptor antagonists have been reported to have neuroprotective effects. In the present study, the efficacy of NMDA antagonists, including memantine and MK-801, and potent 5-HT (2A) antagonists, including risperidone and ketanserin, was evaluated in a 5-HT syndrome animal model.
Antipsychotics increase microtubule-associated protein 2 mRNA but not spinophilin mRNA in rat hippocampus and cortex.	Antipsychotic (neuroleptic) drugs induce structural alterations in synaptic terminals and changes in the expression of presynaptic protein genes. Whether there are also changes in corresponding postsynaptic (dendritic) markers has not been determined. We describe the effect of 14-day treatment with typical (haloperidol, chlorpromazine) or atypical (clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone) antipsychotics on the expression of two dendritic protein genes, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and spinophilin, using in situ hybridization, in the rat hippocampus, retrosplenial, and occipitoparietal cortices. MAP2 mRNA was increased modestly in the dentate gyrus and retrosplenial cortex by chlorpromazine, risperidone, and olanzapine and in the occipitoparietal cortex by chlorpromazine, haloperidol, and risperidone. None of the antipsychotics affected spinophilin mRNA in any area. Overall, these results show a modulation of MAP2 gene expression, likely reflecting functional or structural changes in the dendritic tree in response to some typical and atypical antipsychotics. The lack of change in spinophilin mRNA suggests that dendritic spines are not affected selectively by the drugs. The data provide further evidence that antipsychotics regulate genes involved in synaptic structure and function. Such actions may underlie their long-term effects on neural plasticity in areas of the brain implicated in the pathology of schizophrenia.
The use of novel antipsychotics in the older patient with neurodegenerative disorders in the long-term care setting.	Treating older patients with neurodegenerative disorders involves numerous challenges. The older patient population is expected to increase appreciably in the coming years; thus, there will be increasing numbers of these individuals requiring treatment. As a result, the appropriate choice of psychopharmacologic agents becomes an important decision in treating older patients with atypical antipsychotics. The atypical antipsychotic medications are replacing the high-potency conventional antipsychotics in the long-term care setting because of the lower risks of side effects. For instance, atypical antipsychotics have lower rates of extrapyramidal side effects and tardive dyskinesia. Double-blind placebo-controlled trials examining the use of risperidone and olanzapine have been published and indicate that both agents safely and effectively reduce agitation symptoms in long-term care patients with neurodegenerative disorders. For instance, based on these studies, the doses that appear efficacious in treating behavioral agitation in dementia are 0.5 to 1.5 mg per day of risperidone and 5 to 10 mg per day of olanzapine. In addition, there are open-label studies examining the use of quetiapine, which suggest that this agent is also safe and efficacious in patients with dementia. Doses used range approximately from 25 to 350 mg per day. Very few studies are available examining the newest atypical antipsychotics, ziprasidone and aripiprazole, in patients with neurodegenerative disorders. These studies do suggest that ziprasidone and aripiprazole are worth further study in the long-term care setting.
Microarray analysis of differentially expressed genes in rat frontal cortex under chronic risperidone treatment.	Long-term administration of antipsychotic drugs can induce differential expression of a variety of genes in the brain, which may underscore the molecular mechanism of the clinical efficacy and/or side effects of antipsychotic drugs. We used cDNA microarray analysis to screen differentially expressed genes in rat frontal cortex under 4 weeks' treatment of risperidone (1 mg/kg). Using real-time quantitative PCR, we were able to verify eight genes, whose expression were significantly upregulated in rat frontal cortex under chronic risperidone treatment when compared with control animals. These genes include receptor for activated protein kinase C, amida, cathepsin D, calpain 2, calcium-independent receptor for alpha-latrotoxin, monoamine oxidase B, polyubiquitin, and kinesin light chain. In view of the physiological function of these genes, the results of our study suggest that chronic risperidone treatment may affect the neurotransmission, synaptic plasticity, and proteolysis of brain cells. This study also demonstrates that cDNA microarray analysis is useful for uncovering genes that are regulated by chronic antipsychotic drugs treatment, which may help bring new insight into the molecular mechanism of antipsychotic drugs.
Comparative effects of the antipsychotics sulpiride and risperidone in female rats on energy balance, body composition, fat morphology and macronutrient selection.	Previous studies showed that the antipsychotic drugs (APDs) sulpiride (SUL) and risperidone (RIS) induced body weight gain (BWG), hyperphagia, and increased serum levels of leptin, prolactin and corticosterone in female rats. Neither SUL nor RIS increased BWG or food intake (FI) in male rats. To further develop the animal model of APD-induced obesity, SUL (20 mg/kg/sc), RIS (0.5 mg/kg/sc) or vehicle (1 cm(3)/kg/sc) were administered to female Wistar rats for 10 or 12 days. Body composition, fat tissue morphology, energy expenditure and food efficiency were assessed in animals fed a high-fat diet. In another experiment, macronutrient selection was evaluated in animals fed with pure diets. SUL and RIS significantly increased BWG and FI, with a stronger effect of SUL. Both drugs increased fat gain and food efficiency, and did not modify energy expenditure. Obesity was due to adipocyte hyperplasia. SUL-treated rats significantly decreased fat intake (p = 0.039), showed a tendency to increase protein intake and did not modify carbohydrate consumption. No differences were observed between the RIS and the vehicle group. The macronutrient selection pattern differs from that observed in obese people undergoing APD treatment and in most animal models of obesity. Those findings suggest that SUL administration does not properly model APD treatment in humans. Results on macronutient selection in RIS-treated rats must be considered as preliminary, since in this experiment the animals did not gain weight significantly. Other diet protocols and lower APD doses must be tested to further characterize the RIS model.
Abnormalities in visually guided saccades suggest corticofugal dysregulation in never-treated schizophrenia.	Previous studies have reported intact visually guided saccades in schizophrenia, but these are limited by potential acute and long-term pharmacological treatment effects, small sample sizes, and a failure to follow patients over time.
A case of psychosis with temporal lobe epilepsy: SPECT changes with treatment.	An 8-year-old male was referred to the child psychiatry department because of vivid visual and auditory hallucinations, including multiple voices talking to each other, and loss of consciousness. Magnetic resonance imaging scans revealed cortical dysgenesis in the left inferior frontal cortex and adjacent subcortical structures. Single-photon emission computed tomography imaging revealed left temporal hypoperfusion. Risperidone therapy was initiated because there was no remission after carbamazepine and sodium valproate treatment. After risperidone treatment, symptoms remitted. A control single-photon emission computed tomography study indicated that the left temporal hypoperfusion was normalized. After discontinuation of risperidone, symptoms returned, and electroencephalography revealed generalized slow-wave activity particularly prominent in the left temporal region. To our knowledge, this is one of the first reports of cerebral blood flow changes in a pediatric patient with psychosis after treatment.
Metabolic dysregulation with atypical antipsychotics occurs in the absence of underlying disease: a placebo-controlled study of olanzapine and risperidone in dogs.	Atypical antipsychotics have been linked to weight gain, hyperglycemia, and diabetes. We examined the effects of atypical antipsychotics olanzapine (OLZ) and risperidone (RIS) versus placebo on adiposity, insulin sensitivity (S(I)), and pancreatic beta-cell compensation. Dogs were fed ad libitum and given OLZ (15 mg/day; n = 10), RIS (5 mg/day; n = 10), or gelatin capsules (n = 6) for 4-6 weeks. OLZ resulted in substantial increases in adiposity: increased total body fat (+91 +/- 20%; P = 0.000001) reflecting marked increases in subcutaneous (+106 +/- 24%; P = 0.0001) and visceral (+84 +/- 22%; P = 0.000001) adipose stores. Changes in adiposity with RIS were not different from that observed in the placebo group (P > 0.33). Only OLZ resulted in marked hepatic insulin resistance (hepatic S(I) [pre- versus postdrug]: 6.05 +/- 0.98 vs. 1.53 +/- 0.93 dl . min(-1) . kg(-1)/[microU/ml], respectively; P = 0.009). beta-Cell sensitivity failed to upregulate during OLZ (pre-drug: 1.24 +/- 0.15, post-drug: 1.07 +/- 0.25 microU . ml(-1)/[mg/dl]; P = 0.6). OLZ-induced beta-cell dysfunction was further demonstrated when beta-cell compensation was compared with a group of animals with adiposity and insulin resistance induced by moderate fat feeding alone (+8% of calories from fat; n = 6). These results may explain the diabetogenic effects of atypical antipsychotics and suggest that beta-cell compensation is under neural control.
Volume changes in gray matter in first-episode neuroleptic-naive schizophrenic patients treated with risperidone.	Structural neuroimaging techniques have consistently shown that treatment of schizophrenic patients with conventional antipsychotics causes an increase in basal ganglia volume. However, findings in schizophrenic patients treated with the newer atypical antipsychotic drugs are less consistently reported. To explore this issue, the authors used a whole-brain, unbiased, and automated technique for comparing brain structural features across scans in schizophrenic patients before and after a treatment with the atypical antipsychotic risperidone. T1-weighted images from 11 first-episode neuroleptic-naive schizophrenic patients were processed and analyzed for regions of interest (basal ganglia) by using optimized voxel-based morphometry. Scans were repeated after 3 months of continuous treatment with risperidone. Region of interest-based voxel-based morphometry analyses revealed increases in gray matter volume for the right and left caudate nuclei and for the left accumbens after the treatment with risperidone. Hence, in our sample of schizophrenic patients, treatment with risperidone was associated, in contrast to the findings for other atypical antipsychotics, with an increase in basal ganglia volume. Such discrepancy could be related to the pharmacodynamics of risperidone (the atypical antipsychotic showing the higher affinity for D2 receptors) and the rather high mean doses used in our study (ie, 6.05 mg/d).
Pharmacotherapy of disruptive behavior and item changes on a standardized rating scale: pooled analysis of risperidone effects in children with subaverage IQ.	Disruptive behavior disorders (DBDs), excluding attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), are characterized by a repetitive pattern of antisocial, aggressive, and defiant behavior involving major violations of age-appropriate norms, resulting in significant functional impairment. Risperidone is licensed for the treatment of DBDs in children, adolescents, and adults in several countries. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of risperidone in a clinical setting on the symptom items of the Nisonger Child Behavior Rating Form (N-CBRF), used for the assessment of DBD patients.
Plasma S-100B protein in Chinese patients with schizophrenia: comparison with healthy controls and effect of antipsychotics treatment.	To examine the possibility that structural damage to the brain may play a role in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia by measuring the level of plasma S-100B, a calcium-binding protein found predominantly in the cytosol of glial cells.
Antipsychotics improve Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol-induced impairment of the prepulse inhibition of the startle reflex in mice.	Recently, cannabinoid receptor agonists have been reported to impair prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle reflex. In the current study, we examined the effect of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the principal psychoactive component of cannabis, on the PPI, and found that THC (10 mg/kg, i.p.) impaired the PPI concomitant with a decrease in the startle response. Antipsychotics such as haloperidol (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) and risperidone (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.), which are potent dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, and SR141716 (10 mg/kg, i.p.), a CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist, reversed these THC-induced PPI deficits. Moreover, THC (10 mg/kg) increased dopamine (DA) release in the nucleus accumbens but not medial prefrontal cortex over a 50-100-min period (time of PPI test) after treatment, and SR141716 (10 mg/kg) reversed this increase in DA release induced by THC. These results suggest that dopaminergic hyperfunction in the nucleus accumbens may be involved in THC-induced PPI deficits.
Long-acting risperidone: focus on safety.	Although atypical antipsychotics are generally regarded as having more favorable tolerability profiles than conventional antipsychotics, differences between specific atypical agents can be important when individualizing treatment. Long-acting risperidone (LAR), the first long-acting injectable atypical anti-psychotic, has been found to be effective in the treatment of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder.
Risperidone and paliperidone inhibit p-glycoprotein activity in vitro.	Risperidone (RSP) and its major active metabolite, 9-hydroxy-risperidone (paliperidone, PALI), are substrates of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). The goal of this study was to examine the in vitro effects of RSP and PALI on P-gp-mediated transport. The intracellular accumulation of rhodamine123 (Rh123) and doxorubicin (DOX) were examined in LLC-PK1/MDR1 cells to evaluate P-gp inhibition by RSP and PALI. Both compounds significantly increased the intracellular accumulation of Rh123 and DOX in a concentration-dependent manner. The IC(50) values of RSP for inhibiting P-gp-mediated transport of Rh123 and DOX were 63.26 and 15.78 microM, respectively, whereas the IC(50) values of PALI were >100 microM, indicating that PALI is a less potent P-gp inhibitor. Caco-2 and primary cultured rat brain microvessel endothelial cells (RBMECs) were utilized to investigate the possible influence of RSP on intestinal absorption and blood-brain barrier (BBB) transport of coadministered drugs that are P-gp substrates. RSP, 1-50 microM, significantly enhanced the intracellular accumulation of Rh123 in Caco-2 cells by inhibiting P-gp activity with an IC(50) value of 5.87 microM. Following exposure to 10 microM RSP, the apparent permeability coefficient of Rh123 across Caco-2 and RBMECs monolayers was increased to 2.02 and 2.63-fold in the apical to basolateral direction, but decreased to 0.37 and 0.21-fold in the basolateral to apical direction, respectively. These data suggest that RSP and PALI, to a lesser extent, have a potential to influence the pharmacokinetics and hence the pharmacodynamics of coadministered drugs via inhibition of P-gp-mediated transport. However, no human data exist that address this issue. In particular, RSP may interact with its own active metabolite PALI by promoting its brain concentration through inhibiting P-gp-mediated efflux of PALI across endothelial cells of the BBB.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in a haploidentical stem cell transplant recipient: a clinical, neuroradiological and virological response after treatment with risperidone.	JC virus (JCV) is a double-stranded DNA virus belonging to family Polyomaviridae. It causes progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), mainly in immunosuppressed people. JCV had been shown to require the serotonin 2A receptor for host cell entry. We report a case of clinical, neuroradiological and virological response of biopsy-proven PML in a 33-year-old comatose woman after treatment with the anti-psychotic drug risperidone. Since risperidone is the tightest binding of current drugs to this receptor we think this may have blocked JCV entry in our patient, allowing her immune recovery and viral clearance.
A pharmaco-EEG study on antipsychotic drugs in healthy volunteers.	Both psychotropic drugs and mental disorders have typical signatures in quantitative electroencephalography (EEG). Previous studies found that some psychotropic drugs had EEG effects opposite to the EEG effects of the mental disorders treated with these drugs (key-lock principle).
Risperidone significantly inhibits interferon-gamma-induced microglial activation in vitro.	Microglia has recently been regarded to be a mediator of neuroinflammation via the release of proinflammatory cytokines, nitric oxide (NO) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the central nervous system (CNS). Microglia has thus been reported to play an important role in the pathology of neurodegenerative disease, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). The pathological mechanisms of schizophrenia remain unclear while some recent neuroimaging studies suggest even schizophrenia may be a kind of neurodegenerative disease. Risperidone has been reported to decrease the reduction of MRI volume during the clinical course of schizophrenia. Many recent studies have demonstrated that immunological mechanisms via such as interferon (IFN)-gamma and cytokines might be relevant to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. In the present study, we thus investigated the effects of risperidone on the generation of nitric oxide, inducible NO synthase (iNOS) expression and inflammatory cytokines: interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha by IFN-gamma-activated microglia by using Griess assay, Western blotting and ELISA, respectively. In comparison with haloperidol, risperidone significantly inhibited the production of NO and proinflammatory cytokines by activated microglia. The iNOS levels of risperidone-treated cells were much lower than those of the haloperidol-treated cells. Antipsychotics, especially risperidone may have an anti-inflammatory effect via the inhibition of microglial activation, which is not only directly toxic to neurons but also has an inhibitory effect on neurogenesis and oligodendrogenesis, both of which have been reported to play a crucial role in the pathology of schizophrenia.
Impaired sensorimotor gating of the acoustic startle response in the prodrome of schizophrenia.	Schizophrenia patients exhibit impairment in prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response (ASR), which is commonly interpreted as a sensorimotor gating deficit. To date, it is unclear when these gating deficits arise. Results of animal studies and some human data suggest that PPI deficits are in part genetically determined, such that gating deficits could be present before the onset of a full-blown psychosis. To test this assumption, we investigated PPI of ASR in individuals with prodromal symptoms of schizophrenia and patients with first-episode schizophrenia.
LORETA functional imaging in antipsychotic-naive and olanzapine-, clozapine- and risperidone-treated patients with schizophrenia.	The aim of our study was to detect changes in the distribution of electrical brain activity in schizophrenic patients who were antipsychotic naive and those who received treatment with clozapine, olanzapine or risperidone. We included 41 subjects with schizophrenia (antipsychotic naive = 11; clozapine = 8; olanzapine = 10; risperidone = 12) and 20 healthy controls. Low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography was computed from 19-channel electroencephalography for the frequency bands delta, theta, alpha-1, alpha-2, beta-1, beta-2 and beta-3. We compared antipsychotic-naive subjects with healthy controls and medicated patients. (1) Comparing antipsychotic-naive subjects and controls we found a general increase in the slow delta and theta frequencies over the fronto-temporo-occipital cortex, particularly in the temporolimbic structures, an increase in alpha-1 and alpha-2 in the temporal cortex and an increase in beta-1 and beta-2 in the temporo-occipital and posterior limbic structures. (2) Comparing patients who received clozapine and those who were antipsychotic naive, we found an increase in delta and theta frequencies in the anterior cingulate and medial frontal cortex, and a decrease in alpha-1 and beta-2 in the occipital structures. (3) Comparing patients taking olanzapine with those who were antipsychotic naive, there was an increase in theta frequencies in the anterior cingulum, a decrease in alpha-1, beta-2 and beta-3 in the occipital cortex and posterior limbic structures, and a decrease in beta-3 in the frontotemporal cortex and anterior cingulum. (4) In patients taking risperidone, we found no significant changes from those who were antipsychotic naive. Our results in antipsychotic-naive patients are in agreement with existing functional findings. Changes in those taking clozapine and olanzapine versus those who were antipsychotic naive suggest a compensatory mechanism in the neurobiological substrate for schizophrenia. The lack of difference in risperidone patients versus antipsychotic-naive subjects may relate to risperidone's different pharmacodynamic mechanism.
Administration of haloperidol and risperidone after neurobehavioral testing hinders the recovery of traumatic brain injury-induced deficits.	Agitation and aggression are common behavioral sequelae of traumatic brain injury (TBI). The management of these symptoms is critical for effective patient care and therefore antipsychotics are routinely administered even though the benefits vs. risks of this approach on functional outcome after TBI are unclear. A recent study from our group revealed that both haloperidol and risperidone impaired recovery when administered prior to testing. However, the results may have been confounded by drug-induced sedation. Hence, the current study reevaluated the behavioral effects of haloperidol and risperidone when provided after daily testing, thus circumventing the potential sedative effect.
Variants of dopamine and serotonin candidate genes as predictors of response to risperidone treatment in first-episode schizophrenia.	Abnormalities in dopaminergic and serotonergic transmission systems are thought to be involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of antipsychotics. We conducted a pharmacogenetic study to evaluate whether variants in dopamine-related genes (DRD1-DRD5, AKT1 and GSK3beta) and serotonin receptor genes (HTR1A, HTR1B, HTR1D, HTR2A, HTR2C, HTR6 and HTR7) can be used to predict the efficacy of risperidone treatment for schizophrenia.
Low doses of risperidone and morphine interact to produce more analgesia and greater extrapyramidal effects in rats.	The search for non-narcotic drugs that will enhance the analgesic effects of opiates without enhancing their side effects has included the investigation of psychoactive drugs already approved for other uses. Some research has supported an analgesic effect of risperidone (RIS), an atypical neuroleptic. However, the analysis of the analgesic efficacy of RIS alone or as an adjuvant to morphine (MOR) has not considered the production of adverse motor effects that would limit its usefulness as a treatment for pain. We tested whether low doses of RIS would enhance the analgesic action of opiates without inducing untoward motor effects. The analgesia induced by a range of RIS doses (0.1-1.0 mg/kg, SC) was assessed alone and in combination with MOR (5 mg/kg, IP) in male Long-Evans (hooded) rats using two different algesiometric assays: hotplate and tail-flick test. The presence or absence of ptosis, vacuous chewing, and abnormal stationary postures was recorded to evaluate dyskinetic effects. No dose of RIS alone altered pain threshold. However, the highest dose of RIS, 1.0 mg/kg SC, significantly increased the analgesic effects of MOR. Dyskinetic effects of RIS were dose-dependent and enhanced in RIS+MOR treatment. These results do not support the hypothesis that RIS, alone or in combination with MOR, elevates pain threshold without also inducing motor side effects. These findings suggest caution in the use of RIS as either a primary treatment or opiate adjuvant treatment for pain.
Olanzapine and risperidone disrupt conditioned avoidance responding by selectively weakening motivational salience of conditioned stimulus: further evidence.	Suppression of conditioned avoidance response is a preclinical behavioral index of antipsychotic activity. Previous work shows that olanzapine and risperidone disrupt avoidance response elicited by a less salient conditioned stimulus (CS2) to a greater extent than avoidance elicited by a more salient stimulus (CS1), suggesting that antipsychotic drugs may have a weakening action on motivational salience of stimuli. In the present study, we further examined this mechanism of antipsychotic action, focusing on the possible impact of baseline difference of CS1 and CS2 response rates on the avoidance-disruptive effect of olanzapine and risperidone. Rats were first trained to acquire avoidance responding in a procedure in which the number of CS2 trials (i.e. 20) was twice the number of CS1 trials (i.e. 10), but the percentage of CS2-shock pairing was set at 25% lower (15 trials out of 20) than the percentage of CS1-shock pairing (20 trials out of 20). They were then tested daily under olanzapine (0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg, sc) or risperidone (0.33 and 1.0 mg/kg, sc) for 5 consecutive days. Repeated olanzapine and risperidone treatment dose-dependently disrupted avoidance responding to both CS1 and CS2. Both drugs at the high dose disrupted the CS2 avoidance to a greater extent than the CS1 avoidance. In the final challenge test, rats previously treated with olanzapine were tested under risperidone (0.33 mg/kg), whereas rats previously treated with risperidone were tested under olanzapine (0.5 mg/kg). Results show that rats previously treated with risperidone 1.0mg/kg group made significantly fewer avoidance responses than the vehicles under olanzapine at 0.5 mg/kg. These findings confirm that olanzapine and risperidone disrupt avoidance response primarily by selectively attenuating the motivational salience of the CS. The present study also suggests that there is a generality of antipsychotic drug experience that is mediated by a shared interoceptive drug state mechanism.
Post-drug consequences of chronic atypical antipsychotic drug administration on the ability to adjust behavior based on feedback in young monkeys.	Atypical antipsychotic drugs are characterized by their affinity for serotonin and dopamine receptors. The dopaminergic system undergoes developmental changes during childhood, making it vulnerable to external influences such as drug administration.
Gastroprotective potential of risperidone, an atypical antipsychotic, against stress and pyloric ligation induced gastric lesions.	Risperidone has been used in some stress disorders and may be potentially protective against stress-induced gastric lesions. Thus, the aim of the present study is to investigate, whether risperidone, a D(2) receptor and 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist, would be able to result in gastroprotective effect in stress-induced lesions and also explore the possible mechanism of action behind its gastroprotective activity. Gastroprotective activity of risperidone was evaluated both by single treatment and 21 days repeated (0.03, 0.1, 0.3 and 1mg/kg, p.o.) treatment in the cold restraint stress (CRS) model and 21 days repeated treatment in the pyloric ligation (PL) model and compared with that of sulpiride (D(2) receptor antagonist) and ketanserin (5-HT(2) receptor antagonist) as standard. Histopathological assessment was done to evaluate the gastroprotective activity of risperidone in CRS model. The roles of nitric oxide (NO), sulfhydryl (SH) group, ATP-sensitive K(+) channels (K(ATP) channels) and prostaglandins (PGs) in the gastroprotective effect of risperidone against CRS were also investigated. PGE(2), hexosamine as a marker of mucus barrier and microvascular permeability were also estimated. Results show that repeated treatment of risperidone, sulpiride and ketanserin exhibited a gastroprotective effect against CRS-induced lesions while single administration of risperidone was found to be ineffective. Moreover, repeated treatment of risperidone and ketanserin was found to be ineffective in case of PL in contrast to sulpiride. Risperidone pretreatment reverses the stress induced alteration in hexosamine, PGE(2) and microvascular permeability. Pretreatment with l-NAME, NEM, glibenclamide and indomethacin reversed the gastroprotective effect of risperidone. The results suggest that risperidone has significant gastroprotective effects in CRS-induced gastric lesions models, which appears to be mediated by endogenous NO, SH, PGs and K(ATP) channel opening.
Effects of risperidone on learning and memory in naive and MK-801-treated rats.	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of an atypical antipsychotic risperidone (RIS; 0.06, 0.125 or 0.25 mg/kg, intraperitoneal, i.p.) on learning and memory processes, both in naive and MK-801-treated (0.15 mg/kg, i.p.) rats.
Effect of paliperidone and risperidone on extracellular glutamate in the prefrontal cortex of rats exposed to prenatal immune activation or MK-801.	The NMDA glutamate hypofunction model of schizophrenia is based in part upon acute effects of NMDA receptor blockade in humans and rodents. Several laboratories have reported glutamate system abnormalities following prenatal exposure to immune challenge, a known environmental risk factor for schizophrenia. Here we report indices of NMDA glutamate receptor hypofunction following prenatal immune activation, as well as the effects of treatment during periadolescence with the atypical antipsychotic medications risperidone and paliperidone. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly I:C) or saline on gestational day 14. Male offspring were treated orally via drinking water with vehicle, risperidone (0.01mg/kg/day), or paliperidone (0.01mg/kg/day) between postnatal days 35 and 56 (periadolescence) and extracellular glutamate levels in the prefrontal cortex were determined by microdialysis at PD 56. Consistent with decreased NMDA receptor function, MK-801-induced increases in extracellular glutamate concentration were markedly blunted following prenatal immune activation. Further suggesting NMDA receptor hypofunction, prefrontal cortex basal extracellular glutamate was significantly elevated (p<0.05) in offspring of poly I:C treated dams. Pretreatment with low dose paliperidone or risperidone (0.01mg/kg/day postnatal days 35-56) normalized prefrontal cortical basal extracellular glutamate (p<0.05 vs. poly I:C vehicle-treatment). Pretreatment with paliperidone and risperidone also prevented the acute MK-801-induced increase in extracellular glutamate. These observations demonstrate decreased NMDA receptor function and elevated extracellular glutamate, two key features of the NMDA glutamate receptor hypofunction model of schizophrenia, during periadolescence following prenatal immune activation. Treatment with the atypical antipsychotic medications paliperidone and risperidone normalized basal extracellular glutamate. Demonstration of glutamatergic abnormalities consistent with the NMDA glutamate receptor hypofunction model of schizophrenia as an early developmental consequence of prenatal immune action provides a model to identify novel early interventions targeting glutamatergic systems which play an important role in both positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia.
State and trait markers of emotionally charged visual event-related potentials (P300) in drug-naïve schizophrenia.	In the present study, we investigated the changes in P3 component in the emotionally charged visual event-related potentials (ERP) in 30 drug-naïve schizophrenic patients for up to 1 year.
Upregulation of adenosine A2A receptors induced by atypical antipsychotics and its correlation with sensory gating in schizophrenia patients.	Sensory gating deficits have been found in patients with schizophrenia and their unaffected relatives. However, the underlying neurobiological mechanism of this deficit remains unclear. Pre-clinical studies have implicated adenosine in sensory gating deficits in schizophrenia. Therefore, the current study investigated a possible relationship between peripheral adenosine A2A receptor (ADORA2A) and sensory gating indices (P50 measures) in medication-free schizophrenia (n=31) and healthy (n=21) groups. The effects of six-week antipsychotic treatment were examined. At baseline, schizophrenia patients showed impaired sensory gating compared to healthy controls. However, there was no significant difference in ADORA2A gene expression among groups. In addition, ADORA2A expression was not correlated with sensory gating at any time point. Following treatment, we found a significant upregulation of ADORA2A expression. Intriguingly, we observed a significant positive association between ADORA2A upregulation and baseline P50 amplitudes in the schizophrenia group. A main finding of the current pilot study is the upregulation of ADORA2A expression following treatment with antipsychotics. In addition, this upregulation was predicted by baseline P50 amplitude, an observation that awaits replication in an expanded sample.
Exposure to the cytokine EGF leads to abnormal hyperactivity of pallidal GABA neurons: implications for schizophrenia and its modeling.	Previous studies on a cytokine model for schizophrenia reveal that the hyperdopaminergic innervation and neurotransmission in the globus pallidus (GP) is involved in its behavioral impairments. Here, we further explored the physiological consequences of the GP abnormality in the indirect pathway, using the same schizophrenia model established by perinatal exposure to epidermal growth factor (EGF). Single-unit recordings revealed that the neural activity from the lateral GP was elevated in EGF-treated rats in vivo and in vitro (i.e., slice preparations), whereas the central area of the GP exhibited no significant differences. The increase in the pallidal activity was normalized by subchronic treatment with risperidone, which is known to ameliorate their behavioral deficits. We also monitored extracellular GABA concentrations in the substantia nigra, one of the targets of pallidal efferents. There was a significant increase in basal GABA levels in EGF-treated rats, whereas high potassium-evoked GABA effluxes and glutamate levels were not affected. A neurotoxic lesion in the GP of EGF-treated rats normalized GABA concentrations to control levels. Corroborating our in vivo results, GABA release from GP slices was elevated in EGF-treated animals. These findings suggest that the hyperactivity and enhanced GABA release of GP neurons represent the key pathophysiological features of this cytokine-exposure model for schizophrenia. 
Kv3.1-containing K(+) channels are reduced in untreated schizophrenia and normalized with antipsychotic drugs.	Neuronal firing is a fundamental element of cerebral function; and, voltage-gated potassium (K(+)) channels regulate that firing through the repolarization of action potentials. Kv3-type channels (Kv3.1-Kv3.4) represent a family of voltage-gated K(+) channels that have fast-spiking properties. Kv3.1 channel subunits are predominantly localized to cortical parvalbumin (PV)-positive, inhibitory interneurons. The firing properties of these interneurons participate in establishing the normal gamma oscillations and synchrony of cortical neuronal populations, thought to be the signature of higher information processing in human brain. Schizophrenia (SZ) is associated with abnormalities in cortical gamma synchrony and in information processing, particularly with dysfunction in working memory and executive function. Here, we report the distribution of Kv3.1b and Kv3.2 protein in normal human brain, showing that Kv3.1b is limited to neocortical areas, whereas Kv3.2 is abundantly represented in neo- and subcortical regions. In SZ cases, levels of Kv3.1b protein are decreased in the neocortex, but only in cases without antipsychotic drug (APD) treatment; Kv3.1 levels are normal in antipsychotic-treated cases. Kv3.2 is not different in distribution or in level between normal and SZ cases, nor influenced by APD, in any region tested. The apparent increase in Kv3.1b protein levels by APDs in SZ neocortex was confirmed in laboratory rodents treated with chronic APDs. These findings show a decrease in Kv3.1b channel protein in SZ neocortex, a deficit that is restored by APDs. This alteration could be fundamentally involved in the cortical manifestations of SZ and in the therapeutic response to APDs.
The antipsychotic olanzapine induces apoptosis in insulin-secreting pancreatic β cells by blocking PERK-mediated translational attenuation.	Patients with schizophrenia receive medication to alleviate various symptoms, but some efficacious second generation antipsychotics, particularly olanzapine, can cause obesity, dyslipidemia, and diabetes mellitus. It has been generally considered that olanzapine contributes to the development of diabetes by inducing obesity and subsequent insulin resistance. In this study, we examined the effect of olanzapine and risperidone, another second generation antipsychotic, on a hamster pancreatic β cell line, and found that both evoked mild endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, as evidenced by mild activation of the ER stress sensor molecule PERK. Surprisingly, only olanzapine induced marked apoptosis. Phosphorylation of the α subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor 2, an event immediately downstream of PERK activation, was not observed in cells treated with olanzapine, protein synthesis continued despite PERK activation, and ER stress was thereby sustained. Secretion of insulin was markedly inhibited, and both proinsulin and insulin accumulated inside olanzapine-treated cells. Inhibition of protein synthesis and knockdown of insulin mRNA, which result in less unfolded protein burden, both attenuated subsequent olanzapine-induced apoptosis. Given clinical observations that some patients taking olanzapine exhibit hyperlipidemia and hyperglycemia without gaining weight, our observations suggest that damage to pancreatic β cells may contribute to the undesirable metabolic consequences of olanzapine treatment in some cases. 
Effects of eight weeks of atypical antipsychotic treatment on middle frontal thickness in drug-naïve first-episode psychosis patients.	Atypical antipsychotic medications generally maintain or increase gray matter amount and functioning. First-episode psychosis patients have lower gray matter volume in the middle frontal gyrus, as well as worse performance on spatial working memory tasks compared to controls. This study investigated the effects of short-term four- and eight-week atypical treatment on middle frontal thickness and spatial working memory in first-episode psychosis patients. Nineteen drug-naïve first-episode psychosis patients treated with risperidone or quetiapine and 26 controls completed structural magnetic resonance imaging, a spatial working memory task, and clinical assessment at three intervals (baseline, four weeks, and eight weeks; all patients and 23 controls completed all three assessments). Caudal and rostral middle frontal thicknesses were measured using the automated program Freesurfer. Positive, negative, and general symptoms of the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) decreased significantly in patients, with most of the change occurring in the first four weeks of treatment. Patients demonstrated an increase in rostral middle frontal thickness over eight weeks of treatment compared to controls. There was a medium effect size relationship between reduction in negative symptoms at four and eight weeks, and a change in rostral middle frontal thickness over eight weeks. No changes were found in spatial working memory ability. Short-term atypical treatment with risperidone or quetiapine can increase prefrontal cortical thickness in psychosis. These findings are notable given the role of the rostral middle frontal region in cognition and the relationship between better cognitive functioning and better functional outcome in psychosis. 
Risperidone inhibits voltage-gated sodium channels.	In contrast to several other antipsychotic drugs, the effects of the atypical antipsychotic risperidone on voltage-gated sodium channels have not been characterized yet, despite its wide clinical use. Here we performed whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings to analyze the effects of risperidone on voltage-dependent sodium currents of N1E-115 mouse neuroblastoma cells carried by either endogenous sodium channels or transfected NaV1.6 channels. Risperidone inhibited both endogenous and NaV1.6-mediated sodium currents at concentrations that are expected around active synaptic release sites owing to its strong accumulation in synaptic vesicles. When determined for pharmacologically isolated NaV1.6, risperidone inhibited peak inward currents with an IC50 of 49 µM. Channel block occurred in a state-dependent fashion with risperidone displaying a fourfold higher affinity for the inactivated state than for the resting state. As a consequence of the low state dependence, risperidone produced only a small, but significant leftward shift of the steady-state inactivation curve and it required concentrations ≥ 30 µM to significantly slow the time course of recovery from inactivation. Risperidone (10 µM) gave rise to a pronounced use-dependent block when sodium currents were elicited by trains of brief voltage pulses at higher frequencies. Our data suggest that, compared to other antipsychotic drugs as well as to local anesthetics and sodium channel-targeting anticonvulsants, risperidone displays an unusual blocking profile where a rather low degree of state dependence is associated with a prominent use-dependent block.
Association between serum testosterone levels, body mass index (BMI) and insulin in male patients with schizophrenia treated with atypical antipsychotics--olanzapine or risperidone.	A sufficient amount of testosterone (T) is essential for adequate sexual functioning but also for cognitive and psychological well-being. Most recent studies have demonstrated that higher BMI and other symptoms of metabolic syndrome are associated with alterations in sex steroid hormone concentrations. Although, neuroleptics are known to cause a significant and sustained weight excess, the relationships between body mass index and the level of testosterone in psychiatric patients have not been thoroughly studied. The main purpose of the present study was to examine the correlations between testosterone, estradiol BMI, and insulin in male patients diagnosed with schizophrenia and treated with olanzapine or risperidone.
SOCS3 and SOCS6 are required for the risperidone-mediated inhibition of insulin and leptin signaling in neuroblastoma cells.	Antipsychotic drugs are regularly used for the treatment of many types of psychiatric disorders. The administration of second-generation antipsychotics is often associated with weight gain and the development of diabetes mellitus; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of these drugs remain poorly understood. Leptin and insulin play key roles in the regulation of energy balance and glucose homeostasis, and resistance to the actions of these hormones can occur with obesity and inflammation, resulting in the pathogenesis of obesity and type 2 diabetes. In this study, the effects of risperidone on the insulin-induced protein kinase B (PKB) phosphorylation and leptin-stimulated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation were investigated in the human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line. The treatment of these cells with risperidone induced the activation of extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) by cellular cyclic adenosine 3-monophosphate (cAMP)-dependent protein kinase (also known as protein kinase A; PKA) and the mechanisms involved include the induction of suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) and suppressor of cytokine signaling 6 (SOCS6) expression. The risperidone-induced ERK activation induced an upregulation of SOCS3 and SOCS6 mRNA expression levels. Taken together, these results suggest that risperidone modulates SOCS3 and SOCS6 expression through adenylate cyclase-mediated ERK activation, which, in turn, leads to an inhibition of insulin-induced PKB phosphorylation and leptin-stimulated STAT3 phosphorylation. Eventually, these effects result in excessive body weight gain due to the inhibition of both the leptin and insulin signaling pathways.
The olfactory tubercle as a site of action of neuroleptics with an atypical profile in the paw test: effect of risperidone, prothipendyl, ORG 5222, sertindole and olanzapine.	The paw test was used to detect the preclinical profile (classical versus atypical) of five putative, atypical neuroleptics, namely olanzapine, sertindole, risperidone, prothipendyl and ORG 5222. In the paw test classical neuroleptics increase the hindlimb reaction time (HRT), a parameter with predictive validity for antipsychotic efficacy, at doses comparable to those necessary for increasing forelimb reaction time (FRT), a parameter with predictive validity for extrapyramidal side-effects, whereas atypical neuroleptics increase HRT at doses that are much smaller than those increasing FRT. All tested compounds showed the profile of atypical neuroleptics in the paw test. Using the FRT/HRT ratio of minimum effective doses as overall predictor of a favourable ratio of extrapyramidal and therapeutic effects of these drugs, the following order was found: olanzapine (20) > sertindole = risperidone = prothipendyl (10) > ORG 5222 (3). The ability of compounds to attenuate locomotor activity elicited either from the olfactory tubercle (10 micrograms dopamine: OT test) or from the nucleus accumbens (1 microgram ergometrine: ACC test) was used to establish whether the compounds preferentially act in one of these structures. Previous research has shown that classical neuroleptics are far less potent in the OT test than in the ACC test, whereas atypical neuroleptics are far more potent in the OT test than in the ACC test. All five agents preferentially acted in the olfactory tubercle. The order of potency in the olfactory tubercle was as follows: sertindole > ORG 5222 > risperidone > olanzapine > prothipendyl. It is concluded that risperidone, prothipendyl, ORG 5222, sertindole and olanzapine not only show the profile of atypical neuroleptics in the paw test, but also preferentially act in the olfactory tubercle, but not in the nucleus accumbens, viz. two features that they share with the atypical neuroleptics clozapine and thioridazine and with the putative, atypical neuroleptics raclopride and remoxipride.
D4 dopamine receptor binding affinity does not distinguish between typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs.	The affinities of 13 atypical and 12 typical antipsychotic drugs for the cloned rat D4 dopamine receptor and the D4/D2 ratios were examined. Of the atypical antipsychotic drugs tested, only clozapine, risperidone, olanzapine, zotepine and tiospirone had affinities less than 20 nM. In fact, many atypical antipsychotic drugs had relatively low affinities for the cloned rat D4 receptor, with Ki values greater than 100 nM (Seroquel, fluperlapine, tenilapine, FG5803 and melperone). Additionally, several typical antipsychotic drugs had high affinities for the cloned rat D4 receptor, with Kis less than 20 nM (loxapine, chlorpromazine, fluphenazine, mesoridazine, thioridazine and trifluoroperazine). The ratios of D2/D4 affinities did not differentiate between these two types of antipsychotic drugs. Thus, D4 dopamine receptor affinity, used as a single measure, does not distinguish between the group of typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs analyzed.
In functional experiments, risperidone is selective, not for the B, but for the A subtype of alpha 1-adrenoceptors.	The potency of the antipsychotic drug, risperidone, to antagonize alpha 1A-adrenoceptor-mediated contraction in rat vas deferens and vasoconstriction in rat perfused kidney, and alpha 1B-adrenoceptor-mediated contractions in spleen from guinea-pig and mouse was evaluated and compared to that of alpha 1-adrenoceptor subtype-discriminating antagonists. Prazosin was found to be unselective; 2-(2,6-dimethoxyphenoxyethyl)aminomethyl-1,4-benzodioxane (WB 4101), 5-methyl-urapidil, indoramin and (+)-niguldipine were confirmed as selective for the alpha 1A-adrenoceptor, whereas spiperone was weakly alpha 1B-selective. Risperidone was equipotent to prazosin at alpha 1A-adrenoceptors in rat vas deferens and kidney. However, at guinea-pig and mouse splenic alpha 1B-adrenoceptors, the affinity values of risperidone were 10-fold lower than those of prazosin. Thus, in functional experiments the presumed high selectivity of risperidone for the B subtype of alpha 1-adrenoceptors could not be confirmed, the drug instead appears to be moderately selective (10-fold) for the A subtype.
Serotonin-mediated increase in cytosolic [Ca++] in platelets of risperidone-treated schizophrenia patients.	Stimulating the platelet 5HT2 receptor generates the second messenger IP3, and results in an increase in cytosolic [Ca++] ([Ca++]cyt). Platelets from risperidone-treated patients would be expected to respond less effectively, as measured by decreased [Ca++]cyt, after 5HT2 receptor stimulation. We report the data on 6 risperidone-treated patients and 6 normal controls evaluated at our site using the Fura-2 method for determining platelet [Ca++]. Data analysis was performed by unpaired two-tailed Student's t-test. No significant differences between groups were found for ED50 5HT-stimulated [Ca++]cyt (ED50 5HT delta [Ca++]cyt). Significant differences were found for maximal change [Ca++]cyt (Max delta [Ca+2]cyt) between risperidone-treated patients and normal controls (p = .03). These preliminary data suggest that measurement of 5HT-stimulated changes in platelet cytosolic [Ca+2] might be a useful marker for in vivo risperidone inhibition of 5HT2 function.
Antipsychotic drugs induce similar effects on the release of dopamine and noradrenaline in the medial prefrontal cortex of the rat brain.	In the present study we have compared the effects of the classical antipsychotic drug haloperidol and four different atypical antipsychotics (clozapine, risperidone, olanzapine, ziprasidone) on extracellular levels of dopamine and noradrenaline in the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) of conscious rats. Haloperidol (10, 100 and 800 nmol/kg), clozapine (0.3, 1, 10 and 30 micromol/kg), risperidone (100, 500 and 5000 nmol/kg), olanzapine (10, 100 and 500 nmol/kg) and ziprasidone (10, 100 and 1000 nmol/kg) were administered subcutaneously to rats. All compounds induced increases in dialysate levels of dopamine and noradrenaline in the medial prefrontal cortex. The increases induced by the four antipsychotic agents in extracellular levels of dopamine and noradrenaline displayed a striking co-variation both in dose and time. A similar co-variation was seen in the decrease of dopamine and noradrenaline, after administration of a low dose (30 nmol/kg, s.c.) of the dopamine D2/3 receptor agonist (+)-7-hydroxy-2-(N,N-di-n-propylamino) tetralin ((+)-7-OH-DPAT). It is concluded that there is a close coupling between the release of dopamine and noradrenaline in the medial prefrontal cortex. The mechanism of action of this interaction, that might be of importance for a better understanding of the mechanism of action of antipsychotic drugs, is discussed.
Aggressive behaviour in transgenic mice expressing APP is alleviated by serotonergic drugs.	Transgenic mouse strains were generated that overexpress human APP or clinical mutants of APP. All transgenic mouse strains that over-express APP displayed essentially the same phenotype of disturbed behaviour, differential glutamatergic responses, deficits in maintenance of long-term potentiation and premature death, but formation of amyloid plaques was seen in the highest expressing APP/London transgenic mice only. Apart from cognitive deficits, the APP transgenic mice were characterized by aggressive behaviour, which was pharmacologically alleviated with 8-OH-DPAT and buspirone, two serotonergic agonists. The atypical neuroleptic drug risperidone was equally active in this regard. The data establish an important aspect of the transgenic mice as experimental models for behavioural aspects of Alzheimer's disease, in addition to other early and late symptoms.
Prolongation of QT interval in isolated feline hearts by antipsychotic drugs.	Some antipsychotic drugs have been found to prolong the QT interval on electrocardiographic (ECG) recordings, a phenomenon which, when severe, may facilitate the occurrence of complex ventricular arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes. However, the effects of these drugs on the cardiac repolarization process have not been evaluated extensively. This study was designed to examine the potency of five antipsychotic drugs in lengthening the QT interval of the perfused feline heart: haloperidol, risperidone, sertindole, clozapine, and olanzapine. The hearts were infused with increasing concentrations of drugs (0.1-20 micromol/L) for 40-minute intervals at each concentration. ECG recordings were made, with signals amplified and data recorded on a strip chart recorder. Four representative beats from each set of three signal recordings were chosen for QT interval measurement. Our data indicated that all tested drugs prolonged the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner (p < 0.01). Haloperidol and risperidone were significantly more potent than sertindole, clozapine, and olanzapine (p < 0.001). At a concentration of 0.5 micromol/L over a 40-minute infusion interval, haloperidol lengthened the interval by 26.2+/-0.7%, risperidone by 19.4+/-2.2%, and sertindole by 8.9+/-3.5% (p < 0.05 compared with baseline); clozapine and olanzapine were less potent. Although species differences may limit extrapolation of our findings to humans, the cardiac potassium channels of felines clearly resemble those of humans. This model may serve as the basis for further studies of drug-induced prolongation of the QT interval and precipitation of ventricular arrhythmias.
