A dose-response study examining the effects of ritanserin on human slow wave sleep.	This study investigated the effects of placebo, 1 mg, 3 mg, 10 mg and 30 mg ritanserin and 10 mg diazepam on human sleep. Twelve normal volunteers participated in this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over sleep study. A clear dose-response relationship was found for ritanserin with higher doses evoking increased duration of slow wave sleep.
Ketanserin and ritanserin can reduce reperfusion-induced but not ischaemia-induced arrhythmias in anaesthetised rats.	The effects of the 5-hydroxytryptamine2 (5-HT2) antagonists ketanserin and ritanserin on ischaemia- and reperfusion-induced arrhythmias were investigated in pentobarbitone-anaesthetised rats. Both ketanserin (3 mg kg-1) and ritanserin (1 mg kg-1) significantly reduced the incidence of ventricular fibrillation (from 60 to 25% and 88 to 12%, respectively) and the mortality induced by reperfusion after 5 min of myocardial ischaemia. Neither drug significantly altered the number of ventricular ectopic beats, the incidence of ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, or mortality during the first 25 min of coronary artery occlusion. Significant dose-dependent reductions in heart rate and arterial blood pressure were observed with all doses of ketanserin (0.1-3 mg kg-1) and ritanserin (0.3 and 1 mg kg-1), but neither drug had any major effect on arterial blood gases or pH. In isolated guinea pig and rat atria and ventricular muscle preparations, ketanserin (10(-5) M) and ritanserin (3 X 10(-5) M) reduced the maximal driving frequency, whereas 5-HT itself was without effect. The results suggest that the antiarrhythmic activity of ketanserin and ritanserin observed in this study was probably not due to 5-HT2 receptor or alpha 1-adrenoceptor blockade, but may have been due to a direct action on cardiac muscle.
Antihypertensive mode of action of ketanserin.	The mechanism of blood pressure reduction by ketanserin in hypertensive patients is still not fully understood. It can occur in the absence of evident alpha 1-adrenergic blockade. However, particularly with prolonged therapy, features of alpha 1 blockade appear. There are both similarities and differences between the pattern of effects caused by ketanserin and prazosin. A central mode of action of ketanserin contributing to the blood pressure reduction is not excluded. It appears unlikely, however, that inhibition of aldosterone secretion makes a substantial contribution to the antihypertensive effect of ketanserin in humans.
Does acute serotonergic type-2 antagonism reduce blood pressure? Comparative effects of single doses of ritanserin and ketanserin in essential hypertension.	We have studied the acute effects of the serotonergic type-2 (5-HT2) antagonists ketanserin and ritanserin given as single oral doses to patients with essential hypertension. Ketanserin has alpha 1-antagonist properties, whereas ritanserin is largely devoid of alpha 1-receptor binding affinity. Ketanserin (40 mg orally) caused a significant reduction (p less than 0.03) of sitting mean arterial pressure over the 8-h period following drug administration by an average of 15.4 +/- 3.2 mm Hg (mean +/- SEM) as compared to a reduction of 8.5 +/- 2.2 following placebo. In contrast, ritanserin had no significant effect on blood pressure compared to placebo; sitting mean arterial pressure was reduced by 9.0 +/- 2.6 and 10.8 +/- 1.8 mm Hg after administration of 10 and 20 mg, respectively, of ritanserin. There were no significant differences in pulse rate among placebo, ketanserin, or ritanserin phases. Ritanserin caused a reduction in the hostility score (p less than 0.05) as measured by the Multiple Affect Adjective Check List; ketanserin had no significant effects. The highly selective 5-HT2 antagonist ritanserin, given in a dose which caused measurable alteration of psychological function tests, had no acute effects on blood pressure. The acute antihypertensive effects of ketanserin are not caused by 5-HT2 antagonism alone, but are likely to be dependent on its alpha 1-antagonistic properties.
Phencyclidine-induced head-weaving and head-twitch through interaction with 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 receptors in reserpinized rats.	Phencyclidine mainly produced head-weaving and head-twitches at doses of 5-7.5 mg/kg and of 7.5-12.5 mg/kg, respectively. Phencyclidine-induced head-twitches and head-weaving were blocked by pretreatment with ritanserin (1 mg/kg), a selective serotonin (5-HT)2 receptor antagonist and with pindolol (20 mg/kg, s.c.), a 5-HT1 receptor antagonist, respectively. In reserpine-pretreated rats, the degree of utilization of 5-HT and the number of 5-HT1 ([3H]5-HT) and 5-HT2 ([3H]ketanserin) binding sites were significantly increased compared with the figures for the vehicle-pretreated rats. The intensity of phencyclidine-induced head-weaving (at the dose of 2.5 mg/kg) and head-twitch (at the doses of 2.5 and 5 mg/kg) was significantly increased in reserpine-pretreated rats compared with that of vehicle-pretreated rats. Furthermore, in the reserpine-pretreated rats, the intensity of phencyclidine (1.25 mg/kg)-induced head-weaving and head-twitches was increased in combination with imipramine, while the intensity of phencyclidine (2.5 mg/kg)-induced head-weaving and head-twitch was decreased by pretreatment with mianserin, a non-selective 5-HT receptor antagonist. These results indicate that phencyclidine induced head-weaving by interacting with 5-HT1 receptors, indirectly after the release of 5-HT and/or with some other mechanisms and induced head-twitch by interacting with 5-HT2 receptors directly and/or indirectly.
Arterial and venous effects of serotonin in the forearm of healthy subjects are not age-related.	The influence of age on the regional arterial and venous effects of serotonin (5-HT) was investigated in 13 young (aged 22-31 years) and seven older (aged 50-69 years) healthy volunteers. Single-dose infusions of 5-HT (1, 10, and 80 ng/kg/min) and of the 5-HT2 receptor antagonist ritanserin (50, 150, and 500 ng/kg/min) were administered into the brachial artery. Subsequently, the relative arterial and venous effects of the highest dose of 5-HT were investigated. Forearm blood flow (FBF) and maximum venous outflow (MVO) were measured by venous occlusion plethysmography. Heart rate (HR) and intraarterial (i.a.) blood pressure were recorded semicontinuously. In both age groups, 5-HT induced an initial transient arterial dilation, followed by a persistent increase in FBF for the doses of 1 and 10 ng/kg/min and a relative small decrease in FBF for the highest dose. In both age groups, the highest dose of 5-HT induced a similar large reduction in MVO (p less than 0.05 for both). The reduction in MVO was attenuated by ritanserin (500 ng/kg/min, p less than 0.05 for both groups). In the younger subjects, this dose of ritanserin also unmasked an arterial dilator effect of the highest dose of 5-HT (p less than 0.05). The single infusions of ritanserin did not influence FBF significantly in either study group. No significant differences were observed between the age groups. These results show that in the forearm of healthy subjects arterial and venous vascular responses to 5-HT were not age-related. In the arterial vascular bed, 5-HT acted predominantly as a vasodilator; at high doses, mainly venous vasoconstriction was observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Deuterated ritanserin analysis by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry: a sensitive technique to study human ritanserin pharmacokinetics.	Ritanserin, a new selective serotonin-S2 antagonist, was labelled in one 4-fluorophenyl moiety to obtain a (2H4)-labelled analogue having the following isotopic distribution: 2H0: 0.0%, 2H1: 0.1%, 2H2: 1.9%, 2H3: 5.8%, 2H4: 92.2%. (2H0/2H4) Ritanserin and the internal standard were isolated from the plasma by liquid/liquid extraction and analysed by selected-ion monitoring gas chromatography/mass spectrometry in the 70 eV electron impact mode. A detection limit of 0.1 ng ml-1 could be obtained for both (2H0) and (2H4)ritanserin. The precision (per cent coefficient of variation) and accuracy (per cent relative error) of the method were 4.1% and 4.1%, respectively. The method was used to determine the plasma levels of ritanserin and tetradeuterated ritanserin in three healthy male subjects receiving an equimolar mixture of 5:5 mg (2H0/2H4)ritanserin. The pharmacokinetics of both isotopomers proved to be identical, indicating the absence of an isotope effect, so that this technique might be very promising for use in bioequivalence studies.
5-Hydroxytryptamine stimulates the formation of inositol phosphate in astrocytes from different regions of the brain.	5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) stimulated the turnover of phosphoinositide in primary cultures of astroglia from the cerebral cortex, striatum, hippocampus and brain stem. Ketanserin and ritanserin, selective antagonists for the central 5-HT2 receptor, inhibited the 5-HT-stimulated formation of inositol monophosphate. In contrast, there was no statistically significant accumulation of cyclic AMP after incubation with different concentrations of 5-HT in any of the cultures studied. The results indicate that astrocytes from various regions of the brain possess 5-HT2 receptors coupled to the formation of inositol phosphates.
Ritanserin assessments in plasma and CSF by means of HPLC technique with fluorescence detection.	A specific HPLC-technique based on fluorescence detection was developed for assay of ritanserin, a serotonin receptor-blocking agent, in plasma and CSF. In 5 ml sample volumes, the limit of detection was 0.5 ng/ml, the recovery of ritanserin was 83 +/- 5%, and the inter-assay variability, expressed as the coefficient of variation, was 9.5% in the 2-788 ng/ml concentration range. When the values determined by this technique were compared with the results obtained by means of an independent HPLC-method with UV-detection, the coefficient of correlation was 0.995 (p less than 0.001). However, our technique proved to be more specific and less complicated.
Effect of the 5HT2 antagonist ritanserin on food intake and on 5HT-induced anorexia in the rat.	The present study investigated the effect on the rat's eating behavior of the new selective 5HT2 antagonist ritanserin. The results obtained indicate that: single subcutaneous (SC) injection of ritanserin, at doses between 0.1 and 1 mg/kg b.wt., neither elicits food intake in sated rats, nor increases the intake induced by food deprivation; subchronic SC treatment (15 days) with 0.1 mg/kg does not increase food intake nor body weight gain; subchronic SC treatment with high doses, 1 or 10 mg/kg, produces small and transient increases in food intake without affecting body weight gain. When ritanserin was tested for its ability to block the anorectic effect of exogenous 5HT, it inhibited the effect of intraperitoneal (IP) 5HT, but proved to be completely inactive versus the effect of 5HT injected into the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, which is highly sensitive to this effect of 5HT. This last finding suggests that the anorectic action of central endogenous 5HT is also not blocked by ritanserin, thus proposing a reasonable explanation for the absence of orexigenic effect following its administration. Moreover, it suggests that in rats the hypothalamic receptors mediating the effect of 5HT on eating behavior are different from the 5HT2 of the frontal cortex which have been shown to be completely blocked by ritanserin under the experimental conditions employed in our study.
Serotonin S2 receptors blockage and generalized anxiety disorders. A double-blind study on ritanserin and lorazepam.	Serotonin (5-HT) and 5-HT receptors are involved in mood disturbances, such as anxiety and depression. Ritanserin is a new substance with highly selective blocking activity on S2 receptors for 5-HT in the central nervous system. Ritanserin, (20 mg daily) and lorazepam (5 mg daily) were administered to 24 patients suffering from generalized anxiety disorders (DSM III), in a double-blind fashion for six weeks. The results obtained showed comparable improvement in almost all patients with both drugs. Future studies should pay particular attention to psychosomatic disturbances, depressed mood and dysthymic-like disorders, in which ritanserin seems to be more efficacious, according to the best responding items of the general anxiety check list used.
Phencyclidine-induced head-twitch responses as 5-HT2 receptor-mediated behavior in rats.	This study was designed to assess whether phencyclidine (PCP)-induced head-twitch was antagonized by ritanserin, a selective serotonin (5-HT2) receptor antagonist, in mice and rats to confirm the involvement of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurons in PCP actions in comparison with 5-methoxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine (5-MeODMT)-induced behavior. PCP (7.5, 10 and 12.5 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced head-twitch was completely antagonized by ritanserin (1 mg/kg, s.c.) in mice and rats, and 5-MeODMT (2 and 4 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced head-twitch was also completely antagonized by ritanserin in mice. PCP and 5-MeODMT induced head-weaving in mice after ritanserin treatment, but this did not occur in rats. In rats, 5-MeODMT failed to induce head-twitch. These results suggest that PCP-induced head-twitch response in rats is developed via 5-HT2 receptors and it is a useful 5-HT2 receptor model, while 5-MeODMT-induced head-weaving in rats is developed via 5-HT1 receptors and is a useful 5-HT1 receptor model.
Effects of 5-HT receptor subtype-selective drugs on locomotor activity and motor habituation in the DHT adult rat model.	5-Hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) induces biphasic time and dose dependent effects on locomotor activity (LMA) and motor habituation in rats with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (DHT) lesions. To identify the role of serotonin (5-HT) receptors in these responses, we studied the effects of 5-HT2 receptor antagonists on LMA occurring spontaneously and evoked by 5-HTP or putative selective 5-HT agonists in rats injected intracisternally with DHT or vehicle. Motor habituation was assessed by analysis of computer-tabulated 10 minute "bins" during hour long recording. Neuroleptic 5-HT2 antagonists prevented 5-HTP stimulation of LMA in DHT-lesioned rats in the rank order of potency pirenperone greater than pipamperone greater than ketanserin = cinanserin. The non-neuroleptic ritanserin, however, did not reduce LMA stimulated by the 5-HT1B agonist RU24969 but did reverse transient suppression of LMA induced by high dose 5-HTP and by the putative 5-HT2 agonist DOI. RU24969, like 5-HTP, induced a failure of motor habituation which differed from DOI-evoked alteration. 8-OH-DPAT did not affect motor habituation at the dose tested. These data suggest that the 5-HT1B site mediates 5-HTP-evoked locomotor hyperactivity in the DHT model, that the 5-HT2 site participates in the transient hypoactivity seen with high doses of 5-HTP, and that 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 sites may be functionally linked. Both sites differentially influence motor habituation, which appears to be under complex regulation. Bin analysis is a sensitive index of these habituation effects.
Two distinct effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine on single cortical neurons.	The ability of the indoleamine serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) to alter membrane characteristics of neocortical neurons was analyzed using intracellular recording techniques. The present study demonstrates that 5-HT primarily depolarized 68% of cortical neurons probably by decreasing a resting K+ conductance, an effect blocked by the antagonists ritanserin and cinanserin and apparently mediated by 5-HT2 receptors. A hyperpolarization associated with an increased conductance state and insensitive to 5-HT2 antagonists was observed in 26% of the neurons and could be mimicked by the selective 5-HT1A agonist (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propyl-amino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT). Therefore cortical pyramidal neurons contain at least two distinct functional 5-HT receptors whose activation produces opposing effects on membrane potential and conductance.
