The effect of intrahippocampal injections of ritanserin (5HT2A/2C antagonist) and granisetron (5HT3 antagonist) on learning as assessed in the spatial version of the water maze.	5HT(2A/2C) and 5HT(3) receptors have an important role in cognitive behavior specially in spatial learning and memory but the literature concerning the role of these receptors in hippocampus in cognition remains controversial. In the present study a 5HT(2A/2C) antagonist ritanserin (0, 2, 4, 8 microg/0.5 microl) and a 5HT(3) antagonist granisetron (0.0, 0.05, 0.25, 0.5 microg/0.5 microl) were injected bilaterally into the CA1 region of rat hippocampus, 20 min before each training session in Morris Water Maze (MWM) task. Compare with control group, ritanserin (4 microg/0.5 microl) significantly reduced the escape latency and traveled distance of swimming to platform, but granisetron (0.25 microg/0.5 microl) significantly increased those parameters. Both drugs had no effect on escape latency and traveled distance of a non-spatial visual discrimination task. These results suggest a differential role of 5HT(2A/2C) and 5HT(3) receptors during spatial learning that ritanserin improves rat performance in spatial discrimination task whereas granisetron impairs it.
Combined treatment of portal hypertension with ritanserin and propranolol in conscious and unrestrained cirrhotic rats.	We recently reported that ritanserin, a 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor antagonist, induced significant reduction of portal pressure in cirrhotic rats. In this study, we investigated the hemodynamic effects of a combination of propranolol and ritanserin in conscious and unrestrained cirrhotic rats. Heparinized catheters exiting from the neck were placed into the portal vein, inferior vena cava, aorta and left ventricle. Cardiac output and regional blood flows were measured with radiolabeled microspheres and the reference-sample method. Serial hemodynamic studies were performed 4 hr after rats awakened (basal), 1 hr after administration of ritanserin (0.63 mg/kg body wt, intravenously) and after intravenous propranolol infusion (0.33 mg/kg/min for 15 min) in nine cirrhotic rats. Similar measurements were obtained in a control group of eight cirrhotic rats treated with the solvents of ritanserin and propranolol. Ritanserin caused significant reduction of portal pressure (-19%). Portal-venous inflow and splanchnic arteriolar resistances remained unchanged, whereas portal-venous resistances were slightly but significantly lowered (-17%); and ritanserin had no effects on systemic hemodynamics. The addition of propranolol resulted in further reduction of portal pressure (-24%); the final reduction after combined therapy was -38%. Propranolol induced a marked decrease in cardiac output (-31%) and portal-venous inflow (-30%). It also caused a significant increase in splanchnic arteriolar resistance (+39%), but did not magnify the ritanserin-induced decrease of portal-venous resistance. The combined therapy did not modify the mean arterial pressure. Our results show that the effects of ritanserin on portal pressure--probably mediated by a reduction of intrahepatic and/or portocollateral resistances--can be potentiated by propranolol, which lowers the portal-venous inflow.
Involvement of 5-HT2C receptors in the m-CPP-induced antinociception in mice.	Effects of the non-selective 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptor agonist m-chlorophenylpiperazine (m-CPP) on the nociceptive responsiveness in a hot plate and tail flick tests were examined in mice. Intraperitoneal administration of m-CPP (1-10 mg/kg) produced a dose-dependent antinociception in both those tests; the effect of m-CPP in the hot plate test was stronger. The antinociceptive effect of m-CPP in either test was abolished by pretreatment with mesulergine (2 mg/kg), ritanserin (1-2 mg/kg), 5-HT2A/5-HT2C receptor antagonists, and metergoline (0.5-2 mg/kg), a non-selective 5-HT receptor antagonist. On the other hand, spiperone (0.25-0.5 mg/kg), a dopamine, 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptor antagonist; pindolol (4-8 mg/kg), a beta-adrenoceptor, 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B receptor antagonist and zacopride (0.1-1 mg/kg) a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, did not affect the analgesia induced by m-CPP. Neither of the drugs used as putative receptor antagonists changed the nociceptive responsiveness in mice. The obtained results suggest that the analgesia induced by m-CPP is mediated by 5-HT2C receptors.
The nucleus accumbens is a site of action for the inhibitory effect of ritanserin on ethanol intake in rats.	The present study evaluated the effect of central injections of the 5-HT2/1C receptor antagonist, ritanserin, on ethanol intake in rats with developed preference for 3% ethanol. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) injections of ritanserin (10 micrograms/rat/day for 10 days) decreased ethanol preference, while subcutaneous (SC) treatment with the same dose was ineffective. Ritanserin ICV, 1 microgram/rat/day, did not reduce alcohol preference. Bilateral injections of ritanserin into the nucleus accumbens (NAC; 0.5 microgram/site/day for 10 days) produced a prompt and very pronounced suppression of ethanol preference, without affecting total fluid intake. Bilateral injections of ritanserin (0.5 microgram/site/day for 10 days) into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) or into the medial prefrontal cortex (MPC) evoked only slight and variable reduction of ethanol preference. Injections of ritanserin, 5 micrograms/site/day, into the VTA gave a nonselective suppression of the ingestive behavior. The present results provide evidence for a central site of action for the effect of ritanserin on ethanol intake and suggest that the NAC might be a highly sensitive site for its action. Since the NAC is a major target of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system, they also suggest that the effect of ritanserin might be due to interference with this system.
