A simple HPLC method for simultaneous determination of lopinavir, ritonavir and efavirenz.	We developed a simple HPLC method for the simultaneous determination of lopinavir (LPV), ritonavir (RTV) and efavirenz (EFV) to evaluate the efficiency of co-administration of LPV/RTV and EFV in Japanese patients enrolled in a clinical study. The monitoring of LPV plasma concentration is important because co-administration of LPV/RTV with EFV sometimes decreases plasma concentrations of LPV caused by EFV activation of cytochrome P-450 3A. A solution of acetonitrile, methanol and tetramethylammonium perchlorate (TMAP) in dilute aqueous trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) has been used as the mobile phase in a HPLC method to elute LPV and RTV. We found that a solvent ratio of 45 : 5 : 50 (v/v/v) of acetonitrile/methanol/0.02 M TMAP in 0.2% TFA optimized separation of LPV, RTV and EFV. A column temperature of 30 degrees C was necessary for the reproducibility of the analyses. Standard curves were linear in the range 0.060 to 24.06 micro g/ml for LPV, 0.010 to 4.16 micro g/ml for RTV, and 0.047 to 37.44 micro g/ml for EFV. Coefficients of variation (CVs) of LPV, RTV and EFV in intraday and interday assays ranged from 1.5 to 4.0%, 2.5 to 16.8% and 1.0 to 7.7%, respectively. Accuracies ranged from 100 to 110%, 101 to 116% and 99 to 106% for LPV, RTV and EFV, respectively. The extraction recoveries were 77-87, 77-83 and 81-91% for LPV, RTV and EFV, respectively.
Qualitative and quantitative analysis of pharmaceutical compounds by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry.	In this report, we discuss key issues for the successful application of MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry to quantify drugs. These include choice and preparation of matrix, nature of cationization agent, automation, and data analysis procedures. The high molecular weight matrix meso-tetrakis(pentafluorophenyl)porphyrin eliminates chemical noise in the low-mass range, a "brushing" spotting technique in combination with prestructured target plates enables fast preparation of homogeneous matrix crystals, and addition of Li+ leads to intense cationized drug species. Complex biological samples were cleaned up using a 96-well solid-phase extraction plate, and the purified samples were automatically spotted by a pipetting robot. To obtain a suitable data analysis procedure for the quantitative analysis of drugs by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry, various data processing parameters were evaluated on our two model drugs lopinavir and ritonavir. Finally, and most importantly, it is shown that the above-described procedure can be successfully applied to quantify clinically relevant concentrations of lopinavir, an HIV protease inhibitor, in extracts of small numbers of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (1 x 10(6)).
Hair versus plasma concentrations as indicator of indinavir exposure in HIV-1-infected patients treated with indinavir/ritonavir combination.	Large intra-individual variability in plasma levels may limit the interest of therapeutic drug monitoring based on a single determination. Indinavir concentrations were determined both in plasma and hair samples, and correlated with concomitant plasma HIV-RNA in 43 HIV-infected patients. In multivariate analysis, significant association was found between HIV-RNA below 50 copies/ml and indinavir concentrations in hair but not in plasma, suggesting that hair concentrations gave more extensive information on drug exposure than a single plasma sample.
Evaluation of an International Pharmacopoeia method for the analysis of ritonavir by liquid chromatography.	A gradient LC method for the determination of related substances in ritonavir (RTV) has been recently published in the International Pharmacopoeia. The method uses a base-deactivated reversed-phase C18 column kept at a temperature of 35 degrees C. The mobile phases consist of acetonitrile, phosphate buffer pH 4.0 and water. UV detection is performed at 240 nm. A system suitability test (SST) is described to govern the quality of the separation. Since no brand names of columns are mentioned in pharmacopoeial texts, analysts often have problems to select a suitable stationary phase which is only described in general terms. So, the separation towards RTV components was investigated on 18 C18 columns and correlation was made with the column classification system developed in our laboratory. The method was further evaluated using a Hypersil BDS C18 column (25 cm x 4.6mm i.d.), 5 microm, which was also used for the development of the method. A central composite design was applied to examine the robustness of the method. The method shows good precision, linearity, sensitivity and robustness. Four commercial samples were examined using this method.
Sensitive analysis of anti-HIV drugs, efavirenz, lopinavir and ritonavir, in human hair by liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry.	A highly sensitive and selective method using liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) was developed and validated for the measurement of three antiretroviral agents, efavirenz, lopinavir and ritonavir, in human hair. Hair samples from adherent HIV-infected patients on antiretroviral therapies were cut into about 1 mm length segments and drugs were extracted by first shaking the samples with methanol in a 37 degrees C water bath overnight (>14 h), followed by methyl tert-butyl ether/ethyl acetate (1:1) extraction under weak alkaline conditions. The extracted lopinavir and ritonavir were separated by reversed-phase chromatography and detected by tandem mass spectrometry in electrospray positive ionization mode with multiple reaction monitoring (MRM), while efavirenz was monitored in negative ionization MRM mode. This method was validated from 0.01 to 4.0 ng/mg hair for ritonavir and 0.05-20 ng/mg hair for lopinavir and efavirenz by using 2 mg of a human hair sample. The interday and intraday assay precision (coefficients of variation, CV) for spiked quality control (QC) samples at low, medium and high concentrations were within 15% and accuracy ranged from 89% to 110%. Assay reproducibility was also demonstrated by analysis of incurred hair QC samples (CV <14%). No significant matrix ionization suppression was observed. This developed method allowed for the monitoring of these target medications in the hair samples of HIV-infected women on antiretroviral therapy in an observational study using small amounts of hair.
UPLC-MS/MS quantification of nanoformulated ritonavir, indinavir, atazanavir, and efavirenz in mouse serum and tissues.	Animal pharmacokinetic and tissue distribution assays of antiretroviral therapeutic drugs require accurate drug quantification in biological fluids and tissues. Here we report a simple, rapid, and sensitive ultra performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) method for quantification of commonly used antiretroviral drugs ritonavir (RTV), indinavir (IDV), atazanavir (ATV), and efavirenz (EFV) in mouse serum and tissues (liver, kidney, lung, and spleen). These antiretroviral drugs are currently the cornerstones of common therapeutic regimens for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Chromatographic separation was achieved using a gradient mobile phase (5% acetonitrile in methanol and 7.5mM ammonium acetate (pH 4.0)) on an ACQUITY UPLC(®)BEH Shield RP 18 column. All compounds eluted within a 7 min run time. Lopinavir was used as an internal standard. Detection was achieved by dual positive and negative ionization modes on a quadrupole linear ion trap hybrid mass spectrometer with an electrospray ionization (ESI) source. The dynamic range was 0.2-1000 ng/mL for RTV, IDV, and ATV, and 0.5-1000 for EFV. The method was validated and showed high and consistent intra-day and inter-day accuracy and precision for all analytes. This method is used to support the preclinical development studies of targeted- and sustained-release combination ART (nanoART). The current data demonstrate a 1.5-4 fold increase in serum and tissue AUC of nanoformulated ATV, RTV, and EFV administered to mice when compared to native drug. In addition, the tested formulation enhanced exposure of the same anti-HIV drugs in mouse tissues.
