7TM receptors: the splicing on the cake.	Within a given family of seven transmembrane domain (7TM) receptors, functional diversity is most often afforded by the existence of multiple receptor subtypes, each encoded by a distinct gene. However, it is now clear that the existence of introns in genes encoding some members of a receptor family provides scope for additional diversity by virtue of splicing events that result in the formation of different receptor mRNAs and consequently distinct receptor isoforms. A large number of 7TM receptor splice variants have now been shown to exist. In this article, the current data on alternatively spliced variants for hormone and neurotransmitter 7TMs are reviewed, their potential physiological importance considered and some of the issues pertaining to the classification and nomenclature of receptor isoforms produced in this way are addressed.
Assaying RNA chaperone activity in vivo using a novel RNA folding trap.	In the absence of proteins, RNAs often misfold in vitro due to alternative base pairings which result from the molecule being trapped in inactive conformations. We identify an in vivo folding trap in the T4 phage td gene, caused by nine base pairs between a sequence element in the upstream exon of the td gene and another at the 3' end of the intron. During translation, the ribosome resolves this interaction; consequently the intron folds correctly and splicing occurs. The introduction of a stop codon upstream of this base pairing prevents resolution of the inactive structure so that splicing cannot proceed. We have used this folding trap to probe for RNA binding proteins which, when overexpressed, either resolve the misfolded structure or impede its formation in vivo. We distinguish between proteins which recognize the intron structure and those which bind non-specifically and apparently ignore the intron. The first class, e.g. Neurospora crassa CYT-18, can rescue the exonic trap and intron mutants which cause a structural defect. However, known RNA chaperones such as Escherichia coli StpA and S12 and the HIV protein NCp7, only resolve the exonic trap without suppressing intron mutations. Thus, this structural trap enables detection of RNA chaperone activity in vivo.
Human and mouse GPAA1 (Glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor attachment 1) genes: genomic structures, chromosome loci and the presence of a minor class intron.	Many eukaryotic cell surface proteins are anchored to the membrane with glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) that is covalently linked to the carboxyl-terminus. A Saccharomyces cerevisiae gaa1 mutant is defective in posttranslational attachment of GPI to proteins. A recent report demonstrated that the GPAA1 gene encodes a component of a transamidase that mediates GPI-anchor attachment. Here, we report structures and chromosome loci of human and mouse GPAA1 genes. Both genes consist of twelve exons that span about 4 kb. Human and mouse GPAA1s are located at 8q24.3 and 15E, respectively. There is a human pseudo GPAA1 gene (GPAA1P1) that is located at 2q12-->q14. Introns 8 of human and mouse GPAA1s were minor class introns bearing AT at the 5' splice sites and AC and AT at the 3' splice sites, respectively. The 3' splice sites of corresponding introns of African green monkey, Chinese hamster, dog and rat were AC, AT, AT and AA, respectively. The mouse GPAA1 gene (Gpaa1) bearing AG at the 3' splice site prepared by site-directed mutagenesis was functional, indicating that any nucleotide is allowed at the 3' end of a minor class intron.
BRCA1 IVS16+6T-->C is a deleterious mutation that creates an aberrant transcript by activating a cryptic splice donor site.	Results and conclusions are presented that characterize BRCA1 IVS16+6T-->C as a deleterious mutation. BRCA1 transcripts from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of a breast cancer patient with the transition IVS16+6T-->C show the loss of a heterozygous base within codon 871. Additionally, an aberrant RNA splicing product which incorporates 69 bases of the 5' end of intron 16 at the junction of exons 16 and 17 is produced solely from the allele with IVS16+6T-->C. This insertion contains two in-frame stop codons and encodes a protein truncated at residue 1662 (plus 13 residues encoded by the intron). The aberrant transcript is specifically associated with the intronic variant since it was contained within the insertion. Furthermore, sequence analysis of the heterozygous base within codon 871 demonstrates that the two RNA products, productive mRNA and aberrantly spliced RNA, are contributed to exclusively by separate alleles. Finally, the aberrant transcript is produced by the activation of a cryptic splice site which has greater homology with the primate consensus splice sequence than the mutated exon 16 donor site.
Myb-related fission yeast cdc5p is a component of a 40S snRNP-containing complex and is essential for pre-mRNA splicing.	Myb-related cdc5p is required for G(2)/M progression in the yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. We report here that all detectable cdc5p is stably associated with a multiprotein 40S complex. Immunoaffinity purification has allowed the identification of 10 cwf (complexed with cdc5p) proteins. Two (cwf6p and cwf10p) are members of the U5 snRNP; one (cwf9p) is a core snRNP protein. cwf8p is the apparent ortholog of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae splicing factor Prp19p. cwf1(+) is allelic to the prp5(+) gene defined by the S. pombe splicing mutant, prp5-1, and there is a strong negative genetic interaction between cdc5-120 and prp5-1. Five cwfs have not been recognized previously as important for either pre-mRNA splicing or cell cycle control. Further characterization of cwf1p, cwf2p, cwf3p, and cwf4p demonstrates that they are encoded by essential genes, cosediment with cdc5p at 40S, and coimmunoprecipitate with cdc5p. We further show that cdc5p associates with the U2, U5, and U6 snRNAs and that cells lacking cdc5(+) function are defective in pre-mRNA splicing. These data raise the possibility that the cdc5p complex is an intermediate in the assembly or disassembly of an active S. pombe spliceosome.
Redefinition of exon 7 in the COL1A1 gene of type I collagen by an intron 8 splice-donor-site mutation in a form of osteogenesis imperfecta: influence of intron splice order on outcome of splice-site mutation.	Most splice-site mutations lead to a limited array of products, including exon skipping, use of cryptic splice-acceptor or -donor sites, and intron inclusion. At the intron 8 splice-donor site of the COL1A1 gene, we identified a G+1-->A transition that resulted in the production of several splice products from the mutant allele. These included one in which the upstream exon 7 was extended by 96 nt, others in which either intron 8 or introns 7 and 8 were retained, one in which exon 8 was skipped, and one that used a cryptic donor site in exon 8. To determine the mechanism by which exon-7 redefinition might occur, we examined the order of intron removal in the region of the mutation by using intron/exon primer pairs to amplify regions of the precursor nuclear mRNA between exon 5 and exon 10. Removal of introns 5, 6, and 9 was rapid. Removal of intron 8 usually preceded removal of intron 7 in the normal gene, although, in a small proportion of copies, the order was reversed. The proportion of abnormal products suggested that exon 7 redefinition, intron 7 plus intron 8 inclusion, and exon 8 skipping all represented products of the impaired rapid pathway, whereas the intron-8 inclusion product resulted from use of the slow intron 7-first pathway. The very low-abundance cryptic exon 8 donor site product could have arisen from either pathway. These results suggest that there is commitment of the pre-mRNA to the two pathways, independent of the presence of the mutation, and that the order and rate of intron removal are important determinants of the outcome of splice-site mutations and may explain some unusual alterations.
New techniques for DNA sequence classification.	DNA sequence classification is the activity of determining whether or not an unlabeled sequence S belongs to an existing class C. This paper proposes two new techniques for DNA sequence classification. The first technique works by comparing the unlabeled sequence S with a group of active motifs discovered from the elements of C and by distinction with elements outside of C. The second technique generates and matches gapped fingerprints of S with elements of C. Experimental results obtained by running these algorithms on long and well conserved Alu sequences demonstrate the good performance of the presented methods compared with FASTA. When applied to less conserved and relatively short functional sites such as splice-junctions, a variation of the second technique combining fingerprinting with consensus sequence analysis gives better results than the current classifiers employing text compression and machine learning algorithms.
Gene trap mutagenesis of hnRNP A2/B1: a cryptic 3' splice site in the neomycin resistance gene allows continued expression of the disrupted cellular gene.	Tagged sequence mutagenesis is a process for constructing libraries of sequenced insertion mutations in embryonic stem cells that can be transmitted into the mouse germline. To better predict the functional consequences of gene entrapment on cellular gene expression, the present study characterized the effects of a U3Neo gene trap retrovirus inserted into an intron of the hnRNP A2/B1 gene. The mutation was selected for analysis because it occurred in a highly expressed gene and yet did not produce obvious phenotypes following germline transmission.
Factor VII gene intronic mutation in a lethal factor VII deficiency: effects on splice-site selection.	In a patient with lethal factor VII (FVII) deficiency, 2 homozygous nucleotide substitutions were identified in the F7 gene: a IVS7+2T>G transversion involving the IVS7 donor splice site, followed by a mutation at nucleotide 10588 that would result in a missense variation (Arg224Gln). The mutated splice site, located within the first repeat of a minisatellite, is followed by a variable number of pseudo-sites, normally silent. To investigate the consequences of this mutation on F7 splicing, we designed normal and mutant minigenes, spanning exons 5 to 8. In cells transfected with the mutant construct, no normal splicing occurred. Only spliced transcripts including the first minisatellite repeat were observed, resulting from the activation of the most proximal wild-type pseudo-site, which would generate a truncated protein (stop codon upstream of nucleotide 10588). These findings, which suggest the existence of a mechanism selecting one single splice site among multiple cryptic sites, explain the patient's phenotype.
Unusual misregulation of RNA splicing caused by insertion of a transposable element into the T (Brachyury) locus.	The TWis mutant allele of the Brachyury, or T, gene was created by insertion of an endogenous retrovirus-like early transposon (ETn) element into the exon 7 splice donor consensus sequence of the 8 exon T locus. While the developmental consequences of this disruption have been well characterized, the molecular consequences have not been previously investigated, and it has been assumed that the insertion results in a truncated protein. This study sought to further characterize the mutant TWis allele by investigating the nature of the transcripts produced by insertion of this transposable element.
Missense, nonsense, and neutral mutations define juxtaposed regulatory elements of splicing in cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator exon 9.	Exonic sequence variations may induce exon inclusion or exclusion from the mature mRNA by disrupting exonic regulatory elements and/or by affecting a nuclear reading frame scanning mechanism. We have carried out a systematic study of the effect on cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator exon 9 splicing of natural and site-directed sequence mutations. We have observed that changes in the splicing pattern were not related to the creation of premature termination codons, a fact that indicates the lack of a significant nuclear check of the reading frame in this system. In addition, the splice pattern could not be predicted by available Ser/Arg protein matrices score analysis. An extensive site-directed mutagenesis of the 3' portion of the exon has identified two juxtaposed splicing enhancer and silencer elements. The study of double mutants at these regulatory elements showed a complex regulatory activity. For example, one natural mutation (146C) enhances exon inclusion and overrides all of the downstream silencing mutations except for a C to G transversion (155G). This unusual effect is explained by the creation of a specific binding site for the inhibitory splicing factor hnRNPH. In fact, on the double mutant 146C-155G, the silencing effect is dominant. These results indicate a strict dependence between the two juxtaposed enhancer and silencer sequences and show that many point mutations in these elements cause changes in splicing efficiency by different mechanisms.
The P5 activator of a group IC ribozyme can replace the P7.1/7.2 activator of a group IA ribozyme.	The P5 or P7 extensions in the group I intron ribozyme serve as "modular activator units" by stabilizing the conserved core of the ribozyme. The P5 extension of a group IC1 intron was introduced to a barely active group IA2 intron lacking its original P7 extension. The inserted P5 extension significantly activated the chimeric construct. Because the CYT-18 protein factor is also known to activate mutant group IA2 and IC1 introns lacking their P7 and P5 extensions, respectively, the RNA and protein activator units function in an analogous manner.
Contributions of ATM mutations to familial breast and ovarian cancer.	This study addresses the prevalence of ATM mutations and the association with breast cancer in Austrian families selected for a history of breast or ovarian cancer or both [hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC)]. In 270 HBOC families previously screened for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, 137 different sequence alterations of ATM were identified. Seven of these were mutations presumed to cause ataxia telangiectasia based on their effect on the ATM protein, including five that caused a protein truncation and two missense mutations in the catalytic kinase domain of the highly conserved COOH terminus of the protein. The seven mutations were found in 10 families (3.7%). In addition, one missense variant, L1420F, was observed in 13 HBOC families (4.8%) but was not observed in any of the 122 healthy volunteers with no history of breast cancer. In addition, the variant segregated with breast cancer in some of the families, suggesting that it may be pathogenic for breast cancer. Sixty-two additional variants of potential significance were observed in 65 HBOC families, but not in healthy controls. These variants included 24 sequence alterations with possible effects on splicing or protein-protein interactions. This study indicates that there is a significant prevalence of ATM mutations in breast and ovarian cancer families and adds to a growing body of evidence that ATM mutations confer increased susceptibility to breast cancer.
UAP56 levels affect viability and mRNA export in Caenorhabditis elegans.	Expression of a gfp transgene in the intestines of living Caenorhabditis elegans has been measured following depletion by RNAi of a variety of known splicing factors and mRNA export proteins. Reduction of most splicing factors showed only a small effect on expression of the transgene in the animal injected with dsRNA, although most of these RNAi's resulted in embryonic lethality in their offspring. In contrast, RNAi of nxf-1, the worm homolog of mammalian NXF1/TAP, a key component of the mRNA export machinery, resulted in dramatic suppression of GFP expression in the injected animals. When we tested other proteins previously reported to be involved in marking mRNAs for export, we obtained widely divergent results. Whereas RNAi of the worm REF/Aly homologs had no obvious effect, either in the injected animals or their offspring, RNAi of UAP56, reported to be the partner of REF/Aly, resulted in strong suppression of GFP expression due to nuclear retention of its mRNA. Overexpression of UAP56 also resulted in rapid loss of GFP expression and lethality at all stages of development. We conclude that UAP56 plays a key role in mRNA export in C. elegans, but that REF/Aly may not. It also appears that some RNA processing factors are required for viability (e.g., U2AF, PUF60, SRp54, SAP49, PRP8, U1-70K), whereas others are not (e.g., U2A', CstF50).
Tenascin-N: characterization of a novel member of the tenascin family that mediates neurite repulsion from hippocampal explants.	Tenascin-N, a novel member of the tenascin family, was identified and shown to encode characteristic structural motifs of a cysteine-rich stretch, 3.5 epidermal growth factor-like repeats, 12 fibronectin type III homologous domains, and a fibrinogen-like domain. The third fibronectin type III homologous domain is altered by RNA splicing. Characterization of the expression of tenascin-N by in situ hybridization analysis assigned transcripts to many types of neurons in the central nervous system, to the medullary region in the kidney, and to resident macrophages of the T-cell zone in the splenic white pulp. By immunohistochemistry, tenascin-N expression is detectable in all brain regions, with a characteristic staining pattern in the hippocampus demarcating the CA3 region. Recombinantly expressed protein fragments of the alternatively spliced isoforms were presented in choice assays on patterned substrates to neurites and migrating neurons from hippocampal CA3 region explant cultures. The smaller splice variant inhibited neurite outgrowth or cell migration, whereas the longer splice form did not inhibit these functions. These observations suggest that the novel tenascin family member mediates specific repulsive properties on neurites and neurons by generating splice isoforms.
Impact of alternative initiation, splicing, and termination on the diversity of the mRNA transcripts encoded by the mouse transcriptome.	We analyzed the FANTOM2 clone set of 60,770 RIKEN full-length mouse cDNA sequences and 44,122 public mRNA sequences. We developed a new computational procedure to identify and classify the forms of splice variation evident in this data set and organized the results into a publicly accessible database that can be used for future expression array construction, structural genomics, and analyses of the mechanism and regulation of alternative splicing. Statistical analysis shows that at least 41% and possibly as much as 60% of multiexon genes in mouse have multiple splice forms. Of the transcription units with multiple splice forms, 49% contain transcripts in which the apparent use of an alternative transcription start (stop) is accompanied by alternative splicing of the initial (terminal) exon. This implies that alternative transcription may frequently induce alternative splicing. The fact that 73% of all exons with splice variation fall within the annotated coding region indicates that most splice variation is likely to affect the protein form. Finally, we compared the set of constitutive (present in all transcripts) exons with the set of cryptic (present only in some transcripts) exons and found statistically significant differences in their length distributions, the nucleotide distributions around their splice junctions, and the frequencies of occurrence of several short sequence motifs.
CDS annotation in full-length cDNA sequence.	The identification of coding sequences (CDS) is an important step in the functional annotation of genes. CDS prediction for mammalian genes from genomic sequence is complicated by the vast abundance of intergenic sequence in the genome, and provides little information about how different parts of potential CDS regions are expressed. In contrast, mammalian gene CDS prediction from cDNA sequence offers obvious advantages, yet encounters a different set of complexities when performed on high-throughput cDNA (HTC) sequences, such as the set of 60,770 cDNAs isolated from full-length enriched libraries of the FANTOM2 project. We developed a CDS annotation strategy that uses a variety of different CDS prediction programs to annotate the CDS regions of FANTOM2 cDNAs. These include rsCDS, which uses sequence similarity to known proteins; ProCrest; Longest-ORF and Truncated-ORF, which are ab initio based predictors; and finally, DECODER and NCBI CDS predictor, which use a combination of both principles. Aided by graphical displays of these CDS prediction results in the context of other sequence similarity results for each cDNA, FANTOM2 CDS inspection by curators and follow-up quality control procedures resulted in high quality CDS predictions for a total of 14,345 FANTOM2 clones.
Human p32 protein relieves a post-transcriptional block to HIV replication in murine cells.	In the mouse, replication of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV) is blocked at the levels of entry, transcription and assembly. For the latter effect, the amounts of unspliced viral genomic RNA could have an important function. Indeed, in murine cells, HIV transcripts are spliced excessively, a process that is not inhibited by the murine splicing inhibitor p32 (mp32). In marked contrast, its human counterpart, hp32, not only blocks this splicing but promotes the accumulation of viral genomic transcripts and structural proteins, resulting in the assembly and release of infectious virions. A single substitution in hp32 of Gly 35 to Asp 35, which is found in mp32, abrogates this activity. Thus, hp32 overcomes an important post-transcriptional block to HIV replication in murine cells.
Partial response to biotin therapy in a patient with holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency: clinical, biochemical, and molecular genetic aspects.	We report the clinical course and biochemical findings of a 10-year-old, mentally retarded girl with late-onset holocarboxylase synthetase (HCS, gene symbol HLCS) deficiency and only partial response to biotin. On treatment, even with an unusually high dose of 200mg/day, activities of the biotin-dependent mitochondrial carboxylases in lymphocytes remained below 50% of the mean control values. Not only urinary 3-hydroxyisovaleric acid excretion has been persistently elevated, but also plasma and, with even higher concentrations, cerebrospinal fluid 3-hydroxyisovaleric acid have not normalized. The unusual and insufficient response of this patient to biotin treatment can be explained by the effect of the combination of the common HLCS allele IVS10 +5 g>a on one chromosome and a truncating mutation on the other. This case illustrates mechanisms involved in the genotype-phenotype correlation that unequivocally exists in HCS deficiency.
Selective expression of DM-20, an alternatively spliced myelin proteolipid protein gene product, in developing nervous system and in nonglial cells.	Mutations within the gene for myelin proteolipid protein (PLP), a major myelin structural protein, result in abnormal glial differentiation, suggesting that the PLP gene products play some other functional roles. Transcripts from the PLP gene were analyzed in the developing mouse brain by a sensitive method using polymerase chain reaction. The mRNA for DM-20, an alternatively spliced transcript from the PLP gene, was detected in the embryonic mouse brain as early as embryonic day 11, long before the appearance of oligodendrocytes, which were considered to be responsible for PLP production. PLP gene expression was analyzed in various cell lines to determine whether synthesis of the DM-20 mRNA is restricted to those of glial cell lineage. All of the nervous system cell lines examined, including nonglial cell lines, produced DM-20 mRNA but no or very little PLP mRNA. Peripheral sciatic nerve from adult Wistar rats also produced mainly DM-20 mRNA. These results indicate that DM-20 is not only a myelin structural protein, but it also plays other roles in the nervous system that seem to relate, at least in part, to glial differentiation.
The topography of the 3'-terminal region of Escherichia coli 16S ribosomal RNA; an intra-RNA cross-linking study.	30S ribosomal subunits, 70S ribosomes or polysomes from E. coli were subjected to mild ultraviolet irradiation, and the 3'-terminal region of the 16S RNA was excised by 'addressed cleavage' using ribonuclease H in the presence of suitable complementary oligodeoxynucleotides. RNA fragments from this region containing intra-RNA cross-links were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and the cross-link sites identified by our standard procedures. Five new cross-links were found in the 30S subunit, which were localized at positions 1393-1401 linked to 1531-1532, 1393-1401 linked to 1506, 1393-1401 to 1502-1504, 1402-1403 to 1498-1501, and 1432 to 1465-69, respectively. In 70S ribosomes or polysomes the first four of these were absent, but instead two cross-links between the 1400-region and tRNA were observed. These results are discussed in the context of the tertiary folding of the 3'-terminal region of the 16S RNA and its known functional significance as part of the ribosomal decoding centre.
Exon junction sequences as cryptic splice sites: implications for intron origin.	Introns are flanked by a partially conserved coding sequence that forms the immediate exon junction sequence following intron removal from pre-mRNA. Phylogenetic evidence indicates that these sequences have been targeted by numerous intron insertions during evolution, but little is known about this process. Here, we test the prediction that exon junction sequences were functional splice sites that existed in the coding sequence of genes prior to the insertion of introns. To do this, we experimentally identified nine cryptic splice sites within the coding sequence of actin genes from humans, Arabidopsis, and Physarum by inactivating their normal intron splice sites. We found that seven of these cryptic splice sites correspond exactly to the positions of exon junctions in actin genes from other species. Because actin genes are highly conserved, we could conclude that at least seven actin introns are flanked by cryptic splice sites, and from the phylogenetic evidence, we could also conclude that actin introns were inserted into these cryptic splice sites during evolution. Furthermore, our results indicate that these insertion events were dependent upon the splicing machinery. Because most introns are flanked by similar sequences, our results are likely to be of general relevance.
Ex vivo analysis of aberrant splicing induced by two donor site mutations in PKLR of a patient with severe pyruvate kinase deficiency.	Two single-nucleotide substitutions in PKLR constituted the molecular basis underlying pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency in a patient with severe haemolytic anaemia. One novel mutation, IVS5+1G>A, abolished the intron 5 donor splice site. The other mutation, c.1436G>A, altered the intron 10 donor splice site consensus sequence and, moreover, encoded an R479H substitution. We studied the effects on PKLR pre-mRNA processing, using ex vivo-produced nucleated erythroid cells from the patient. Abolition of the intron 5 splice site initiated two events in the majority of transcripts: skipping of exon 5 or, surprisingly, simultaneous skipping of exon 5 and 6 (Delta5,6). Subcellular localization of transcripts suggested that no functional protein was produced by the IVS5+1A allele. The unusual Delta5,6 transcript suggests that efficient inclusion of exon 6 in wild-type PKLR mRNA depends on the presence of splice-enhancing elements in exon 5. The c.1436G>A mutation caused skipping of exon 10 but was mainly associated with a severe reduction in transcripts although these were, in general, normally processed. Accordingly, low amounts of PK were detected in nucleated erythroid cells of the patient, thus correlating with the patient's PK-deficient phenotype. Finally, several low-abundant transcripts were detected that represent the first examples of "leaky-splicing" in PKLR.
Expression of splicing factors in human ovarian cancer.	Alternative splicing represents an important nuclear mechanism in the post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression, which is frequently altered during tumorigenesis. Previously, we have described marked changes in alternative splicing of the CD44 gene in ovarian and breast cancer. In the latter one we described also a specific induction of splicing factors during tumor development. Now we have focussed our studies on the expression profiles of splicing factors, including classical SR proteins, Tra2 and YB-1 in physiological and malignant ovarian tissues by RT-PCR and Western blot analysis. We detected changed expression pattern with higher levels of phosphorylated 30 kDa SR proteins as well as relatively high concentrations of hyperphosphorylated Tra2 protein isoforms in ovarian cancer. RT-PCR analysis revealed a marked induction of SC35 and ASF/SF2 as well as mRNA levels in malignant ovarian tissue. These results suggest gene-specific alterations of expression rather than a general induction of the splicing machinery. Together with previously performed functional studies of CD44 splicing these findings implicate that altered expression profiles of SR proteins, Tra2beta and YB-1 might be responsible for the known changes of alternative CD44 splicing in ovarian cancer.
Missense or splicing mutation? The case of a fibrinogen Bbeta-chain mutation causing severe hypofibrinogenemia.	The genetic basis of severe hypofibrinogenemia was analyzed in a 57-year-old Italian woman. She turned out to be a compound heterozygote for a novel putative missense mutation (Leu172Gln) and a previously described nonsense mutation (Arg17Stop) in the fibrinogen Bbeta-chain gene. The pathogenetic role of Leu172Gln was analyzed by in vitro expression of the mutant recombinant protein in COS-1 cells. These experiments demonstrated that mutant Bbeta-Leu172Gln fibrinogen was normally assembled and secreted. Inspection of the nucleotide sequence surrounding the mutation suggested a possible role on pre-messenger RNA (mRNA) splicing. Production of the mutant transcript in HeLa cells confirmed that the mutation activates a cryptic acceptor splice site in exon 4, resulting in a truncated Bbeta chain, lacking approximately 70% of the C-terminal region. This represents the first exonic splicing mutation identified in the fibrinogen genes. These findings strengthen the importance to analyze potentially pathogenetic nucleotide variations at both the protein and the mRNA level.
The hereditary stomatocytoses: genetic disorders of the red cell membrane permeability to monovalent cations.	The hereditary stomatocytoses are mostly accounted for by genetic disorders of red cell membrane permeability to monovalent cations. These conditions, all very rare, are comprised of a hemolytic anemia, frequently macrocytosis, and the presence of abnormally shaped red blood cells. The key test for diagnosis is osmotic gradient ektacytometry, which measures the osmotic resistance and hydration of the red blood cell; the curve depicting the temperature dependence of the cation leak is also important. Syndromes include familial pseudohyperkalemia (FP), which is devoid of hematological features, dehydrated hereditary stomatocytosis (DHS), and overhydrated hereditary stomatocytosis (OHS). Some forms of DHS may be a pleiotropic, showing pseudohyperkalemia and/or perinatal edema. Perinatal edema, if not properly treated, may be lethal but may also resolve spontaneously prior to or shortly after birth and never reappear. Hereditary cryohydrocytosis, type 1 (CHC 1) is characterized by a dramatic resumption of the leak in vitro as the temperature approaches 0 degrees C; cell hydration seems unaltered. In OHS, stomatin, a membrane protein, is sharply reduced; however, this is a secondary event and the primarily mutated protein remains unknown. Hereditary cryohydrocytosis, type 2 (CHC 2) presents similar to OHS, except that the leak dramatically increases close to 0 degrees C. In addition, hematological manifestations are associated with neurological disorders. Of critical practical importance is that splenectomy in DHS or OHS causes thromboembolic events that may be fatal. The genes involved in hereditary stomatocytoses have yet to be identified. Apart from the 16q24-qter locus, related to subsets of DHS and FP, and a chromosome 2 locus assigned to a single case of FP, gene mapping has been difficult. The eventual discovery of individual genes will clarify complicated classification of the stomatocytoses, now based solely on phenotype.
Single-nucleotide polymorphism g.1548G > A (E469K) in human ICAM-1 gene affects mRNA splicing pattern and TPA-induced apoptosis.	The single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) g.1548G > A (E469K) in the human intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) gene has been suggested to have an association with several types of inflammatory diseases. The polymorphism is located at the three-base position upstream of the splice donor site that produces an alternatively spliced short isoform (ICAM-1-S). To clarify its functional relevance, we studied RNA splicing patterns by comparing cells with different genotype (G/G cells and A/A cells). G/G cells expressed a lower amount of ICAM-1-S mRNA than A/A cells. Since ICAM-1-S has no transmembrane or intracellular domain, ICAM-1 signal transduction and cell-cell contact including Fas-FasL interaction may be influenced. In addition, we studied the effect of this change on FLIP-L mRNA and apoptosis. FLIP-L mRNA tended to decrease, while cell death induced by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate was increased. These results suggest that the g.1548 polymorphism modifies inflammatory immune responses by changing cell-cell interaction and then regulating apoptosis.
Identification of an alternate delta-globin mRNA in adult human erythroid cells.	Here we describe the identification and characterization of an alternate delta-globin mRNA (Alt-d) discovered during high-throughput sequencing of mRNA from adult human erythroid cells. Alt-d mRNA shares the same coding region, splicing pattern, downstream untranslated region, and site of polyadenylation with the previously defined delta-globin (Delta) mRNA. Alt-d mRNA encodes an additional 145 nt in the upstream untranslated region, suggesting an alternative site of transcriptional initiation and transcription through the previously defined promoter, which contains several protein-binding motifs and a TATA box. Northern blot and PCR analyses demonstrated a restricted expression of Alt-d in fetal liver, bone marrow, and adult reticulocytes. Quantitative PCR demonstrated an Alt-d expression pattern similar to that of the Delta transcripts. In addition to intergenic RNA species and the dominant delta-globin transcripts, these data suggest that a third form of RNA is produced from low-level transcription through the delta-globin gene promoter.
A transposon-mediated gene trap approach identifies developmentally regulated genes in zebrafish.	We report here development of a novel gene trap method in zebrafish using the Tol2 transposon system. First, we established a highly efficient transgenesis method in which a plasmid DNA containing the Tol2 transposon vector and the transposase mRNA synthesized in vitro were coinjected into one-cell stage embryos. The transposon vector inserted in the genome could be transmitted to the F1 progeny at high frequencies, and regulated gene expression by a specific promoter could be recapitulated in transgenic fish. Then we constructed a transposon-based gene trap vector containing a splice acceptor and the GFP gene, performed a pilot screen for gene trapping, and obtained fish expressing GFP in temporally and spatially restricted patterns. We confirmed the endogenous transcripts were indeed trapped by the insertions, and the insertion could interfere with expression of the trapped gene. We propose our gene trap approach should facilitate studies of vertebrate development and organogenesis.
The ASRG database: identification and survey of Arabidopsis thaliana genes involved in pre-mRNA splicing.	A total of 74 small nuclear RNA (snRNA) genes and 395 genes encoding splicing-related proteins were identified in the Arabidopsis genome by sequence comparison and motif searches, including the previously elusive U4atac snRNA gene. Most of the genes have not been studied experimentally. Classification of these genes and detailed information on gene structure, alternative splicing, gene duplications and phylogenetic relationships are made accessible as a comprehensive database of Arabidopsis Splicing Related Genes (ASRG) on our website.
Estrogen receptor mutations in human disease.	As early as the 1800s, the actions of estrogen have been implicated in the development and progression of breast cancer. The estrogen receptor (ER) was identified in the late 1950s and purified a few years later. However, it was not until the 1980s that the first ER was molecularly cloned, and in the mid 1990s, a second ER was cloned. These two related receptors are now called ERalpha and ERbeta, respectively. Since their discovery, much research has focused on identifying alterations within the coding sequence of these receptors in clinical samples. As a result, a large number of naturally occurring splice variants of both ERalpha and ERbeta have been identified in normal epithelium and diseased or cancerous tissues. In contrast, only a few point mutations have been identified in human patient samples from a variety of disease states, including breast cancer, endometrial cancer, and psychiatric diseases. To elucidate the mechanism of action for these variant isoforms or mutant receptors, experimental mutagenesis has been used to analyze the function of distinct amino acid residues in the ERs. This review will focus on ERalpha and ERbeta alterations in breast cancer.
Expanding the functional repertoire of CTD kinase I and RNA polymerase II: novel phosphoCTD-associating proteins in the yeast proteome.	CTD kinase I (CTDK-I) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is required for normal phosphorylation of the C-terminal repeat domain (CTD) on elongating RNA polymerase II. To elucidate cellular roles played by this kinase and the hyperphosphorylated CTD (phosphoCTD) it generates, we systematically searched yeast extracts for proteins that bound to the phosphoCTD made by CTDK-I in vitro. Initially, using a combination of far-western blotting and phosphoCTD affinity chromatography, we discovered a set of novel phosphoCTD-associating proteins (PCAPs) implicated in a variety of nuclear functions. We identified the phosphoCTD-interacting domains of a number of these PCAPs, and in several test cases (namely, Set2, Ssd1, and Hrr25) adduced evidence that phosphoCTD binding is functionally important in vivo. Employing surface plasmon resonance (BIACORE) analysis, we found that recombinant versions of these and other PCAPs bind preferentially to CTD repeat peptides carrying SerPO(4) residues at positions 2 and 5 of each seven amino acid repeat, consistent with the positional specificity of CTDK-I in vitro [Jones, J. C., et al. (2004) J. Biol. Chem. 279, 24957-24964]. Subsequently, we used a synthetic CTD peptide with three doubly phosphorylated repeats (2,5P) as an affinity matrix, greatly expanding our search for PCAPs. This resulted in identification of approximately 100 PCAPs and associated proteins representing a wide range of functions (e.g., transcription, RNA processing, chromatin structure, DNA metabolism, protein synthesis and turnover, RNA degradation, snRNA modification, and snoRNP biogenesis). The varied nature of these PCAPs and associated proteins points to an unexpectedly diverse set of connections between Pol II elongation and other processes, conceptually expanding the role played by CTD phosphorylation in functional organization of the nucleus.
CRS1, a chloroplast group II intron splicing factor, promotes intron folding through specific interactions with two intron domains.	Group II introns are ribozymes that catalyze a splicing reaction with the same chemical steps as spliceosome-mediated splicing. Many group II introns have lost the capacity to self-splice while acquiring compensatory interactions with host-derived protein cofactors. Degenerate group II introns are particularly abundant in the organellar genomes of plants, where their requirement for nuclear-encoded splicing factors provides a means for the integration of nuclear and organellar functions. We present a biochemical analysis of the interactions between a nuclear-encoded group II splicing factor and its chloroplast intron target. The maize (Zea mays) protein Chloroplast RNA Splicing 1 (CRS1) is required specifically for the splicing of the group II intron in the chloroplast atpF gene and belongs to a plant-specific protein family defined by a recently recognized RNA binding domain, the CRM domain. We show that CRS1's specificity for the atpF intron in vivo can be explained by CRS1's intrinsic RNA binding properties. CRS1 binds in vitro with high affinity and specificity to atpF intron RNA and does so through the recognition of elements in intron domains I and IV. These binding sites are not conserved in other group II introns, accounting for CRS1's intron specificity. In the absence of CRS1, the atpF intron has little uniform tertiary structure even at elevated [Mg2+]. CRS1 binding reorganizes the RNA, such that intron elements expected to be at the catalytic core become less accessible to solvent. We conclude that CRS1 promotes the folding of its group II intron target through tight and specific interactions with two peripheral intron segments.
Novel TMC1 structural and splice variants associated with congenital nonsyndromic deafness in a Sudanese pedigree.	Mutations of the transmembrane channel-like gene 1 (TMC1) have been shown to cause autosomal dominant and recessive forms of congenital nonsyndromic deafness linked to the loci DFNA36 and DFNB7/B11, respectively. In a Sudanese pedigree affected by an apparently recessive form of nonsyndromic deafness, we performed a linkage analysis using markers covering the deafness loci DFNB1 - DFNB30. A two-point LOD score of 3.08 was obtained at marker position D9S1876, located within the first intron of the TMC1 gene at DFNB7/B11. By DNA sequencing of TMC1 exons 3-22, we identified the structural variant c.1165C>T in exon 13, leading to the stop codon p.Arg389X, and the splice-site variant c.19+5G>A, independently segregating with the deafness phenotype. The c.1165C>T [p.Arg389X] mutation was also observed in four out of 243 unrelated deaf Sudanese individuals, but none of the mutations was found among 292 normal hearing controls. The finding of TMC1 mutations contributing to deafness in Sudan confirms and extends previous reports on the role of TMC1 in recessive nonsyndromic deafness and shows that deafness-causing TMC1 mutations may occur in various ethnic groups.
Identification of 26 new constitutional RB1 gene mutations in Spanish, Colombian, and Cuban retinoblastoma patients.	Constitutional mutations in the RB1 gene predispose to retinoblastoma development. Hence genetic screening of retinoblastoma patients and relatives is important for genetic counseling purposes. In addition, RB1 gene mutation studies may help decipher the molecular mechanisms leading to tumors with different degrees of penetrance or expressivity. In the course of genetically screening of 107 hereditary and non-hereditary retinoblastoma patients (11 familiar bilateral, 4 familiar unilateral, 49 sporadic bilateral and 43 sporadic unilateral) and kindred from Spain, Colombia and Cuba, using direct PCR sequencing, we observed 45 distinct mutations and four RB1 deletions in 53 patients (9 familiar bilateral, 2 familiar unilateral, 31 sporadic bilateral and 11 sporadic unilateral). Most of these mutations (26/45, 57%) have not been reported before. In 32 patients, the predisposing mutations correspond to nonsense (mainly CpG transitions) and small insertions or deletions whose expected outcome is a truncated Rb protein that lacks the functional pockets and tail. Five single aminoacid replacements and seventeen mutations affecting splicing sites were also observed in retinoblastoma patients. Two of these sixteen mutations are of unclear pathogenic nature.
Exonic splicing enhancers in fission yeast: functional conservation demonstrates an early evolutionary origin.	Discrete sequence elements known as exonic splicing enhancers (ESEs) have been shown to influence both the efficiency of splicing and the profile of mature mRNAs in multicellular eukaryotes. While the existence of ESEs has not been demonstrated previously in unicellular eukaryotes, the factors known to recognize these elements and mediate their communication with the core splicing machinery are conserved and essential in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Here, we provide evidence that ESE function is conserved through evolution by demonstrating that three exonic splicing enhancers derived from vertebrates (chicken ASLV, mouse IgM, and human cTNT) promote splicing of two distinct S. pombe pre-messenger RNAs (pre-mRNAs). Second, as in extracts from mammalian cells, ESE function in S. pombe is compromised by mutations and increased distance from the 3'-splice site. Third, three-hybrid analyses indicate that the essential SR (serine/arginine-rich) protein Srp2p, but not the dispensable Srp1p, binds specifically to both native and heterologous purine-rich elements; thus, Srp2p is the likely mediator of ESE function in fission yeast. Finally, we have identified five natural purine-rich elements from S. pombe that promote splicing of our reporter pre-mRNAs. Taken together, these results provide strong evidence that the genesis of ESE-mediated splicing occurred early in eukaryotic evolution.
Identification of putative new splicing targets for ETR-3 using sequences identified by systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment.	ETR-3 (also know as BRUNOL3, NAPOR, and CUGBP2) is one of six members of the CELF (CUG-BP1- and ETR-3-like factor) family of splicing regulators. ETR-3 regulates splicing by direct binding to the pre-mRNA. We performed systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment (SELEX) to identify the preferred binding sequence of ETR-3. After five rounds of SELEX, ETR-3 selected UG-rich sequences, in particular UG repeats and UGUU motifs. Either of these selected motifs was able to restore ETR-3 binding and responsiveness to a nonresponsive splicing reporter in vivo. Moreover, this effect was not specific to ETR-3 since minigenes containing either of the two motifs were responsive to two other CELF proteins (CUG-BP1 and CELF4), indicating that different members of the CELF family can mediate their effects via a common binding site. Using the SELEX-identified motifs to search the human genome, we identified several possible new ETR-3 targets. We created minigenes for two of these genes, the CFTR and MTMR1 genes, and confirmed that ETR-3 regulates their splicing patterns. For the CFTR minigene this regulation was demonstrated to be dependent on the presence of the putative binding site identified in our screen. These results validate this approach to search for new targets for RNA processing proteins.
Mutations in PRPF31 inhibit pre-mRNA splicing of rhodopsin gene and cause apoptosis of retinal cells.	Mutations in human PRPF31 gene have been identified in patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (adRP). To begin to understand mechanisms by which defects in this general splicing factor cause retinal degeneration, we examined the relationship between PRPF31 and pre-mRNA splicing of photoreceptor-specific genes. We used a specific anti-PRPF31 antibody to immunoprecipitate splicing complexes from retinal cells and identified the transcript of rhodopsin gene (RHO) among RNA species associated with PRPF31-containing complexes. Mutant PRPF31 proteins significantly inhibited pre-mRNA splicing of intron 3 in RHO gene. In primary retinal cell cultures, expression of the mutant PRPF31 proteins reduced rhodopsin expression and caused apoptosis of rhodopsin-positive retinal cells. This primary retinal culture assay provides an in vitro model to study photoreceptor cell death caused by PRPF31 mutations. Our results demonstrate that mutations in PRPF31 gene affect RHO pre-mRNA splicing and reveal a link between PRPF31 and RHO, two major adRP genes.
Epidermolytic hyperkeratosis type PS-1 caused by aberrant splicing of KRT1.	Mutations in the keratin 1 (KRT1) gene underlie epidermolytic hyperkeratosis (EHK). This autosomal dominant disorder is characterized by phenotypic heterogeneity. In the present study, we assessed a 33-year-old individual presenting with severe palmoplantar keratoderma and histopathological findings suggestive of EHK. We analysed genomic DNA extracted from the patient's blood lymphocytes for pathogenic mutations in KRT1. A heterozygous 4-bp deletion was identified in intron 1 of the gene (591+3_+6delGAGT), suggesting the possibility that it may interfere with the normal splicing of intron 1. We detected a 66-bp deletion in KRT1 mRNA extracted from the patient's skin, predicted to result in the translation of a mutant KRT1 lacking 22 amino acids, including the conserved helix initiation motif. The identification of this unusual and novel mutation underscores the diagnostic importance of sequence analysis of keratin gene noncoding regions.
Gene transfer-mediated pre-mRNA segmental trans-splicing as a strategy to deliver intracellular toxins for cancer therapy.	Virus-mediated transfer of genes coding for intracellular toxins holds promise for cancer therapy, but the inherent toxicity of such vectors make them a risk to normal tissues and a challenge to produce due to the intrinsic dilemma that expression of toxin molecules kills producer cells. We employed pre-mRNA segmental trans-splicing (STS), in which two engineered DNA fragments coding for 5' "donor" and 3' "acceptor" segments of a toxin gene, respectively, are expressed by viral vectors. When co-delivered to target cells, the two vectors generate two toxin pre-mRNA fragments which are spliced by the target cell machinery to produce functional mRNA and toxin. To test this approach, we used an enzymatic fragment of Shigatoxin1A1 (STX1A1) known to provoke apoptotic cell death. Two adenovirus vectors, Shigatoxin1A1 donor (AdStx1A1Do) and Shigatoxin1A1 acceptor (AdStx1A1Ac), respectively, were used to deliver the Stx1A1 gene fragments. HeLa, HEp2, and A549 cells transfected with AdStx1A1Do and AdStx1A1Ac had a dose-dependent reduction in viability and inhibition of protein synthesis. Intratumoral injection of AdStx1A1Do and AdStx1A1Ac into preexisting HeLa, Hep2, and A549 tumors in immunodeficient mice revealed significant inhibition of tumor growth. There was no evidence of liver damage, suggesting that there was no leakage of vector or toxin from the site of injection following intratumoral injection of AdStx1A1Do and AdStx1A1Ac. These results suggest that the obstacles preventing gene transfer of intracellular toxins for local cancer therapy could be overcome by pre-mRNA segmental trans-splicing.
Disruption of mouse XAB2 gene involved in pre-mRNA splicing, transcription and transcription-coupled DNA repair results in preimplantation lethality.	The XAB2 protein (XPA-binding protein 2) with 15 tetratricopeptide repeat motifs has been isolated by virtue of its ability to interact with xeroderma pigmentosum group A (XPA) protein in the yeast two-hybrid system. It has been shown that XAB2 interacted with Cockayne syndrome groups A and B (CSA and CSB) proteins and RNA polymerase II, which are known to be involved in transcription-coupled repair (TCR) and transcription, and that the antibodies against XAB2 protein inhibited the recovery of RNA synthesis after UV irradiation and normal RNA synthesis when microinjected into living fibroblasts. These results have indicated that XAB2 is involved in TCR and transcription. In this report, to elucidate the function of XAB2 in vivo, two types of mutations were introduced into the XAB2 gene in mice: a deletion of the region encompassing the promoter and exons 1-4, and a deletion of the C-terminal 162 amino acids. Both types of XAB2-heterozygous mice appeared normal physiologically and behaviorally. However, XAB2-homozygotes were selectively absent among the newborn mice. A detailed analysis of embryos at different stages of development indicated that the XAB2-homozygous mutants could survive until the morula stage, but could not develop to the blastocyst stage. These results indicate that XAB2 has an essential function in mouse embryogenesis.
Elements of the rat tropoelastin gene associated with alternative splicing.	Multiple isoforms of tropoelastin, the soluble precursor of elastin, are the products of translation of splice-variant mRNAs derived from the single-copy tropoelastin gene. Previous data had demonstrated DNA sequence heterogeneity in three domains of rat tropoelastin mRNA, indicating alternative splicing of several exons of the rat tropoelastin gene. Rat tropoelastin genomic clones encompassing the sites of alternative splicing were isolated and sequenced. Two sites of alternative splicing identified in rat tropoelastin mRNA sequences corresponded to exons 13-15 and exon 33 of the rat tropoelastin gene. Furthermore, the variable inclusion of an alanine codon in exon 16 resulted from two functional acceptor sites separated by three nucleotides. DNA sequences flanking exons subject to alternative splicing were analyzed. These exons contained splicing signals that differed from consensus sequences and from splicing signals of constitutively spliced exons. Introns immediately 5' of exons 14 and 33, for example, lacked typical polypyrimidine tracts and had weak, overlapping branch point sequences. Further, a region of secondary structure encompassing the acceptor site of exon 13 may influence alternative splicing of this exon. These results demonstrate that multiple cis-acting sequence elements may contribute to alternative splicing of rat tropoelastin pre-mRNA.
The genomic organization and expression of the WT1 gene.	The Wilms tumor gene WT1, a proposed tumor suppressor gene, has been identified based on its location within a homozygous deletion found in tumor tissue. The gene encodes a putative transcription factor containing a Cys/His zinc finger domain. The critical homozygous deletions, however, are rarely seen, suggesting that in many cases the gene may be inactivated by more subtle alterations. To facilitate the search for smaller deletions and point mutations we have established the genomic organization of the WT1 gene and have determined the sequence of all 10 exons and flanking intron DNA. The pattern of alternative splicing in two regions has been characterized in detail. These results will form the basis for future studies of mutant alleles at this locus.
Genetic and functional interaction of evolutionarily conserved regions of the Prp18 protein and the U5 snRNA.	Both the Prp18 protein and the U5 snRNA function in the second step of pre-mRNA splicing. We identified suppressors of mutant prp18 alleles in the gene for the U5 snRNA (SNR7). The suppressors' U5 snRNAs have either a U4-to-A or an A8-to-C mutation in the evolutionarily invariant loop 1 of U5. Suppression is specific for prp18 alleles that encode proteins with mutations in a highly conserved region of Prp18 which forms an unstructured loop in crystals of Prp18. The snr7 suppressors partly restored the pre-mRNA splicing activity that was lost in the prp18 mutants. The close functional relationship of Prp18 and U5 is emphasized by the finding that two snr7 alleles, U5A and U6A, are dominant synthetic lethal with prp18 alleles. Our results support the idea that Prp18 and the U5 snRNA act in concert during the second step of pre-mRNA splicing and suggest a model in which the conserved loop of Prp18 acts to stabilize the interaction of loop 1 of the U5 snRNA with the splicing intermediates.
Identification and characterization of novel sequence variations in the cytochrome P4502D6 (CYP2D6) gene in African Americans.	Cytochrome P4502D6 (CYP2D6) genotyping reliably predicts poor metabolizer phenotype in Caucasians, but is less accurate in African Americans. To evaluate discordance we have observed in phenotype to genotype correlation studies, select African American subjects were chosen for complete resequencing of the CYP2D6 gene including 4.2 kb of the CYP2D7-2D6 intergenic region. Comparisons were made to a CYP2D6(*)1 reference sequence revealing novel SNPs in the upstream, coding and intervening sequences. These sequence variations, defining four functional alleles (CYP2D6(*)41B, (*)45A and B and (*)46), were characterized for their ability to influence splice site strength, transcription level or catalytic protein activity. Furthermore, their frequency was determined in a population of 251 African Americans. A -692(TGTG) deletion (CYP2D6(*)45B) did not significantly decrease gene expression, nor could any other upstream SNP explain a genotype-discordant case. CYP2D6(*)45 and (*)46 have a combined frequency of 4% and can be identified by a common SNP. Carriers are predicted to exhibit an extensive or intermediate CYP2D6 phenotype.
C-ski cDNAs are encoded by eight exons, six of which are closely linked within the chicken genome.	The c-ski locus extends a minimum of 65 kb in the chicken genome and is expressed as multiple mRNAs resulting from alternative exon usage. Four exons comprising approximately 1.5 kb of cDNA sequence have been mapped within the chicken c-ski locus. However, c-ski cDNAs include almost 3 kb of sequence for which the exon structure was not defined. From our studies using the polymerase chain reaction and templates of RNA and genomic DNA, it is clear that c-ski cDNAs are encoded by a minimum of eight exons. A long 3' untranslated region is contiguous in the genome with the distal portion of the ski open reading frame such that exon 8 is composed of both coding and noncoding sequences. Exons 2 and 3 are separated by more than 25 kb of genomic sequence. In contrast, exons 3 through 8, representing more than half the length of c-ski cDNA sequences, are closely linked within 10 kb in the chicken genome.
Human and murine dystrophin mRNA transcripts are differentially expressed during skeletal muscle, heart, and brain development.	Dystrophin transcripts were shown to be alternatively spliced in a pattern characteristic of both tissue type and developmental stage. Multiple novel spliced forms of dystrophin mRNA were identified in murine brain tissue, skeletal and cardiac muscle, diaphragm, and human cardiac Purkinje fibers. The transcript diversity was greatest in adult, non-skeletal muscle tissues. Sequence analysis revealed that four tandem exons of the murine gene are differentially spliced in at least 11 separate patterns to generate distinct isoforms. Two of these forms were observed in all tissues examined, while several others were uniquely observed in cardiac muscle and brain. Cardiac Purkinje fibers express an isoform primarily observed in brain tissue. Several spliced transcripts were observed only in postnatal development. Differential utilization of a fifth exon results in two mRNA splice forms that encode separate embryonic and adult C-termini of dystrophin. Comparison of murine with human dystrophin mRNAs showed that similar isoform expression patterns exist across species. These observations suggest that functionally distinct isoforms of the dystrophin protein are expressed in separate tissues and at different stages of development. These isoforms may be of significance in understanding the various tissue-specific effects produced by dystrophin gene mutations in Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy patients.
A maturase-encoding group IIA intron of yeast mitochondria self-splices in vitro.	Intron 1 of the coxI gene of yeast mitochondrial DNA (aI1) is a group IIA intron that encodes a maturase function required for its splicing in vivo. It is shown here to self-splice in vitro under some reaction conditions reported earlier to yield efficient self-splicing of group IIB introns of yeast mtDNA that do not encode maturase functions. Unlike the group IIB introns, aI1 is inactive in 10 mM Mg2+ (including spermidine) and requires much higher levels of Mg2+ and added salts (1M NH4Cl or KCl or 2M (NH4)2SO4) for ready detection of splicing activity. In KCl-stimulated reactions, splicing occurs with little normal branch formation; a post-splicing reaction of linear excised intron RNA that forms shorter lariat RNAs with branches at cryptic sites was evident in those samples. At low levels of added NH4Cl or KCl, the precursor RNA carries out the first reaction step but appears blocked in the splicing step. AI1 RNA is most reactive at 37-42 degrees C, as compared with 45 degrees C for the group IIB introns; and it lacks the KCl- or NH4Cl-dependent spliced-exon reopening reaction that is evident for the self-splicing group IIB introns of yeast mitochondria. Like the group IIB intron aI5 gamma, the domain 4 of aI1 can be largely deleted in cis, without blocking splicing; also, trans-splicing of half molecules interrupted in domain 4 occurs. This is the first report of a maturase-encoding intron of either group I or group II that self-splices in vitro.
Phosphorothioate substitution identifies phosphate groups important for pre-mRNA splicing.	Substitution of pre-mRNA in vitro splicing substrates with alpha-phosphorothioate ribonucleotide analogs has multiple effects on the processes of spliceosome formation and splicing. A major effect of substitution is on the splicing cleavage/ligation reactions. Substitution at the 5' splice junction blocks the first cleavage/ligation reaction while substitution at the 3' splice junction blocks the second cleavage/ligation reaction. A second effect of phosphorothioate substitution is the inhibition of spliceosome formation. A substitution/interference assay was used to determine positions where substitution inhibits spliceosome formation or splicing. Substitution in the 3' splice site polypyrimidine tract was found to inhibit spliceosome formation and splicing. This effect was enhanced with multiple substitutions in the region. No sites of substitution within the exons were found which affected spliceosome formation or splicing.
Alternatively spliced p53 RNA in transformed and normal cells of different tissue types.	The alternatively spliced RNA species of tumor suppressor gene p53, containing an additional 96 bases derived from intron 10, is present at approximately 25 to 30% the level of regularly spliced p53 RNA in both normal epidermal and carcinoma cells. The presence of this alternatively spliced RNA in 10T1/2 fibroblast cells, mouse liver and testis suggests that this alternative splicing may be universal. The level of alternatively spliced p53 RNA was increased coordinately with that of regularly spliced p53 in 10T1/2 cells in response to epidermal growth factor. Immunoprecipitation analysis of epidermal cells using monoclonal antibodies which recognize different epitopes of p53 suggested that distinct p53 proteins may be translated from both RNA species. Considering previous observations on the potential importance of carboxyl terminal sequences in p53 function, knowledge of the ubiquitous presence of alternatively spliced p53 is important for future studies of p53 function in normal cells and in oncogenesis.
Ultraconserved elements in insect genomes: a highly conserved intronic sequence implicated in the control of homothorax mRNA splicing.	Recently, we identified a large number of ultraconserved (uc) sequences in noncoding regions of human, mouse, and rat genomes that appear to be essential for vertebrate and amniote ontogeny. Here, we used similar methods to identify ultraconserved genomic regions between the insect species Drosophila melanogaster and Drosophila pseudoobscura, as well as the more distantly related Anopheles gambiae. As with vertebrates, ultraconserved sequences in insects appear to occur primarily in intergenic and intronic sequences, and at intron-exon junctions. The sequences are significantly associated with genes encoding developmental regulators and transcription factors, but are less frequent and are smaller in size than in vertebrates. The longest identical, nongapped orthologous match between the three genomes was found within the homothorax (hth) gene. This sequence spans an internal exon-intron junction, with the majority located within the intron, and is predicted to form a highly stable stem-loop RNA structure. Real-time quantitative PCR analysis of different hth splice isoforms and Northern blotting showed that the conserved element is associated with a high incidence of intron retention in hth pre-mRNA, suggesting that the conserved intronic element is critically important in the post-transcriptional regulation of hth expression in Diptera.
Assays for the RNA chaperone activity of proteins.	Proteins with RNA chaperone activity promote RNA folding by loosening the structure of misfolded RNAs or by preventing their formation. How these proteins achieve this activity is still unknown, the mechanism is not understood and it is unclear whether this activity is always based on the same mechanism or whether different RNA chaperones use different mechanisms. To address this question, we compare and discuss in this paper a set of assays that have been used to measure RNA chaperone activity. In some assays, this activity is related to the acceleration of monomolecular reactions such as group I intron cis-splicing or anti-termination of transcription. Hereby, it is proposed that the proteins release the RNAs from folding traps, which represent the kinetic barriers during the folding process and involve the loosening of structural elements. In most assays, however, bimolecular reactions are monitored, which include the simple acceleration of annealing of two complementary RNAs, the turnover stimulation of ribozyme cleavage and group I intron trans-splicing. The acceleration of these reactions most probably involves the unfolding of structures that interfere with annealing or folding and may in addition provoke annealing by crowding. Most assays are performed in vitro, where conditions might differ substantially from intracellular conditions, and two assays have been reported that detect RNA chaperone activity in vivo.
Reverse splicing of a mobile twin-ribozyme group I intron into the natural small subunit rRNA insertion site.	A mobile group I intron containing two ribozyme domains and a homing endonuclease gene (twin-ribozyme intron organization) can integrate by reverse splicing into the small subunit rRNA of bacteria and yeast. The integration is sequence-specific and corresponds to the natural insertion site (homing site) of the intron. The reverse splicing is independent of the homing endonuclease gene, but is dependent on the group I splicing ribozyme domain. The observed distribution of group I introns in nature can be explained by horizontal transfer between natural homing sites by reverse splicing and subsequent spread in populations by endonuclease-dependent homing.
The herpes simplex virus ICP27 protein: a multifunctional post-transcriptional regulator of gene expression.	The herpes simplex virus 1 ICP27 is an essential, highly conserved protein involved in various steps of herpes simplex virus 1 gene regulation as well as in the shut-off of host gene expression during infection. It functions primarily at the post-transcriptional level in inhibiting precursor mRNA splicing and in promoting nuclear export of viral transcripts. These activities are discussed.
Activation of c-src neuron-specific splicing by an unusual RNA element in vivo and in vitro.	A conserved positive-acting RNA sequence was found to be required for the neuron-specific splicing of the mouse c-src N1 exon. The sequence lies in the intron between exons N1 and 4, close to the N1 donor site. Normally, only the neural-specific splicing of exon N1 required this sequence. When the intron downstream of N1 was shortened, splicing at the constitutive exon 4 acceptor also became dependent on the activating sequence. The neuronal and nonneuronal patterns of src splicing were reconstituted in vitro. HeLa cell extracts spliced exon 4 to exon 3, skipping exon N1. Weri-1 retinoblastoma cell extracts spliced exon 4 to exon N1 as well as to exon 3. Both patterns of splicing were dependent on the activating sequence. A 123 nt RNA containing just the activating sequence specifically inhibited both patterns of src splicing, indicating that factors bound to the activator were required for its effects.
Nonsense mutations inhibit splicing of MVM RNA in cis when they interrupt the reading frame of either exon of the final spliced product.	mRNAs R1 and R2 of the autonomous parvovirus minute virus of mice (MVM), which encode the viral nonstructural proteins NS1 and NS2, respectively, are processed in an ordered splicing pathway in which R2 is generated from mature spliced R1. Introduction of translation termination signals into these genes alters the processing of these RNAs; there is a significant (up to fourfold) increase in the accumulated steady-state levels of R1 relative to R2, when compared with wild-type levels, although the total accumulated levels of R1 plus R2 remain the same. The increase in accumulated R1 relative to R2 in mutant infected or transfected murine cells is independent of RNA stability and transport and decreases, in a polar manner, with the distance of the inserted termination signal from the shared initiation codon for NS1 and NS2 at nucleotide 260. The increased ratio of R1 to R2 is a consequence of the artificially introduced translation termination signals acting in cis rather than in the absence of a functional viral gene product. These mutations have an effect when they interrupt previously open reading frames in either exon of the spliced product R2. Nonsense mutations that are located in the second exon of R2 inhibit splicing of R1 to R2 only when they interrupt an open reading frame (ORF) that has the potential, after normal splicing, to be joined in-frame with the initiating AUG. These results suggest that nonsense mutations inhibit splicing of R1 to R2 by influencing the mechanism by which exons are defined in murine cells.
A gene trap approach in mouse embryonic stem cells: the lacZ reported is activated by splicing, reflects endogenous gene expression, and is mutagenic in mice.	We have confirmed that the gene trap vector pGT4.5 creates spliced fusion transcripts with endogenous genes and prevents the synthesis of normal transcripts at the site of integration. cDNA was prepared to the lacZ fusion transcript in three ES cell lines to recover endogenous exon sequences upstream of lacZ. Each of the clones detected a unique-sized endogenous transcript, as well as the fusion transcript in the ES cell line from which the clone was derived. Sequence analysis of these clones and larger clones isolated from a random-primed cDNA library showed that the splice acceptor was used properly. For two insertions, the expression patterns of the lacZ reporter and the associated endogenous gene were compared in situ at three embryonic stages and were found to be similar. Three gene trap insertions were transmitted into the germ line, and abnormalities were observed with two of the three insertions in the homozygous state. RNA obtained from mice homozygous for the two mutant gene trap insertions was analyzed for normal endogenous transcripts and negligible amounts were detected, indicating that little splicing around the gene trap insertion occurred. This work demonstrates the capacity of the gene trap vector to generate lacZ fusion transcripts, to accurately report endogenous gene expression, and to mutate the endogenous gene at the site of integration.
Dichotomous splicing signals in exon flanks.	Intronic elements flanking the splice-site consensus sequences are thought to play a role in pre-mRNA splicing. However, the generality of this role, the catalog of effective sequences, and the mechanisms involved are still lacking. Using molecular genetic tests, we first showed that the approximately 50-nt intronic flanking sequences of exons beyond the splice-site consensus are generally important for splicing. We then went on to characterize exon flank sequences on a genomic scale. The G+C content of flanks displayed a bimodal distribution reflecting an exaggeration of this base composition in flanks relative to the gene as a whole. We divided all exons into two classes according to their flank G+C content and used computational and statistical methods to define pentamers of high relative abundance and phylogenetic conservation in exon flanks. Upstream pentamers were often common to the two classes, whereas downstream pentamers were totally different. Upstream and downstream pentamers were often identical around low G+C exons, and in contrast, were often complementary around high G+C exons. In agreement with this complementarity, predicted base pairing was more frequent between the flanks of high G+C exons. Pseudo exons did not exhibit this behavior, but rather tended to form base pairs between flanks and exon bodies. We conclude that most exons require signals in their immediate flanks for efficient splicing. G+C content is a sequence feature correlated with many genetic and genomic attributes. We speculate that there may be different mechanisms for splice site recognition depending on G+C content.
Multiple alignment using simulated annealing: branch point definition in human mRNA splicing.	A method for the simultaneous alignment of a very large number of sequences using simulated annealing is presented. The total running time of the algorithm does not depend explicitly on the number of sequences treated. The method has been used for the simultaneous alignment of 1462 human intron sequences upstream of the intron-exon boundary. The consensus sequence of the aligned set together with a calculation of the Shannon information clearly shows that several sequence motives are conserved: (i) a previously undetected guanosine rich region, (ii) the branch point and (iii) the polypyrimidine tract. The nucleotide frequencies at each position of the branch point consensus sequence qualitatively reproduce the frequencies of the experimentally determined branch points.
A case of beta-thalassemia with a C----T substitution at position 654 of the second intervening sequence of the beta-globin gene.	A 26-year-old Chinese-Malaysian female patient with beta-thalassemia is presented. The main hematological values found in this patient were as follows: 1) normocytic hypochromic anemia (RBC 444 x 10(4)/microliters, Hb 11.8 g/dl) with marked anisopoikilocytosis, 2) erythroid hyperplasia, and 3) increased HbF (HbA 41.4%, HbA2 2.9%, HbF 48.9%). DNA obtained from peripheral leukocytes was analyzed using dot blot hybridization of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplified DNA with allele-specific oligonucleotide probes. A C----T substitution at position 654 of the second intervening sequence (IVS-2) was detected in her beta-globin clone.
The NAM8 gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes a protein with putative RNA binding motifs and acts as a suppressor of mitochondrial splicing deficiencies when overexpressed.	We have characterized the nuclear gene NAM8 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. It acts as a suppressor of mitochondrial splicing deficiencies when present on a multicopy plasmid. The suppressed mutations affect RNA folding and are located in both group I and group II introns. The gene is weakly transcribed in wild-type strains, its overexpression is a prerequisite for the suppressor action. Inactivation of the NAM8 gene does not affect cell viability, mitochondrial function or mitochondrial genome stability. The NAM8 gene encodes a protein of 523 amino acids which includes two conserved (RNP) motifs common to RNA-binding proteins from widely different organisms. This homology with RNA-binding proteins, together with the intronic location of the suppressed mitochondrial mutations, suggests that the NAM8 protein could be a non-essential component of the mitochondrial splicing machinery and, when present in increased amounts, it could convert a deficient intron RNA folding pattern into a productive one.
Spliced RNA of woodchuck hepatitis virus.	Polymerase chain reaction was used to investigate RNA splicing in liver of woodchucks infected with woodchuck hepatitis virus (WHV). Two spliced species were detected, and the splice junctions were sequenced. The larger spliced RNA has an intron of 1300 nucleotides, and the smaller spliced sequence shows an additional downstream intron of 1104 nucleotides. We did not detect singly spliced sequences from which the smaller intron alone was removed. Control experiments showed that spliced sequences are present in both RNA and DNA in infected liver, showing that the viral reverse transcriptase can use spliced RNA as template. Spliced sequences were detected also in virion DNA prepared from serum. The upstream intron produces a reading frame that fuses the core to the polymerase polypeptide, while the downstream intron causes an inframe deletion in the polymerase open reading frame. Whereas the splicing patterns in WHV are superficially similar to those reported recently in hepatitis B virus, we detected no obvious homology in the coding capacity of spliced RNAs from these two viruses.
Molecular anatomy of a speckle.	Direct localization of specific genes, RNAs, and proteins has allowed the dissection of individual nuclear speckles in relation to the molecular biology of gene expression. Nuclear speckles (aka SC35 domains) are essentially ubiquitous structures enriched for most pre-mRNA metabolic factors, yet their relationship to gene expression has been poorly understood. Analyses of specific genes and their spliced or mature mRNA strongly support that SC35 domains are hubs of activity, not stores of inert factors detached from gene expression. We propose that SC35 domains are hubs that spatially link expression of specific pre-mRNAs to rapid recycling of copious RNA metabolic complexes, thereby facilitating expression of many highly active genes. In addition to increasing the efficiency of each step, sequential steps in gene expression are structurally integrated at each SC35 domain, consistent with other evidence that the biochemical machineries for transcription, splicing, and mRNA export are coupled. Transcription and splicing are subcompartmentalized at the periphery, with largely spliced mRNA entering the domain prior to export. In addition, new findings presented here begin to illuminate the structural underpinnings of a speckle by defining specific perturbations of phosphorylation that promote disassembly or assembly of an SC35 domain in relation to other components. Results thus far are consistent with the SC35 spliceosome assembly factor as an integral structural component. Conditions that disperse SC35 also disperse poly(A) RNA, whereas the splicing factor ASF/SF2 can be dispersed under conditions in which SC35 or SRm300 remain as intact components of a core domain.
Porcine Parkin: molecular cloning of PARK2 cDNA, expression analysis, and identification of a splicing variant.	Parkin, encoded by the PARK2 gene, is an E3 ligase which functions as an integral component of the cytoplasmic ubiquitin/proteasomal protein degradation pathway. Mutations in the PARK2 gene, resulting in the loss of parkin function, leads to autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinsonism (AR-JP). This work reports the cloning and characterization of the porcine (Sus scrofa) PARK2 cDNA (SsPARK2) and splicing variants hereof. The PARK2 cDNA was amplified by the reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using oligonucleotide primers derived from in silico sequences. The porcine PARK2 cDNA codes for a protein of 461 amino acids which shows a high similarity to orangutan (91%), human (86%), and to rat (82%) parkin. A splicing variant of the porcine PARK2 with a complete deletion of exon 9 was also identified. Expression analysis by quantitative real-time RT-PCR revealed presence of PARK2 transcript in all examined organs and tissues. Differential expression was observed, with very high levels of PARK2 mRNA in cerebellum, heart, and kidney. In addition, expression analysis showed that porcine PARK2 transcripts could be detected early in embryo development in different brain regions. The porcine PARK2 orthologue was mapped to chromosome 1p24-25. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis revealed seven SNPs in the porcine PARK2 gene, one missense and one silent mutation in exon 7 and five SNPs in intron 7.
Nonoverlapping functions of DNA polymerases mu, lambda, and terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase during immunoglobulin V(D)J recombination in vivo.	DNA polymerases mu (pol mu), lambda (pol lambda), and terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase (TdT) are enzymes of the pol X family that share homology in sequence and functional domain organization. We showed previously that pol mu participates in light chain but surprisingly not heavy chain gene rearrangement. We show here that immunoglobulin heavy chain junctions from pol lambda-deficient animals have shorter length with normal N-additions, thus indicating that pol lambda is recruited during heavy chain rearrangement at a step that precedes the action of TdT. In contrast to previous in vitro studies, analysis of animals with combined inactivation of these enzymes revealed no overlapping or compensatory activities for V(D)J recombination between pol mu, pol lambda, and TdT. This complex usage of polymerases with distinct catalytic specificities may correspond to the specific function that the third hypervariable region assumes for each immunoglobulin chain, with pol lambda maintaining a large heavy chain junctional heterogeneity and pol mu ensuring a restricted light chain junctional variability.
Yeast ntr1/spp382 mediates prp43 function in postspliceosomes.	The Ntr1 and Ntr2 proteins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae have been reported to interact with proteins involved in pre-mRNA splicing, but their roles in the splicing process are unknown. We show here that they associate with a postsplicing complex containing the excised intron and the spliceosomal U2, U5, and U6 snRNAs, supporting a link with a late stage in the pre-mRNA splicing process. Extract from cells that had been metabolically depleted of Ntr1 has low splicing activity and accumulates the excised intron. Also, the level of U4/U6 di-snRNP is increased but those of the free U5 and U6 snRNPs are decreased in Ntr1-depleted extract, and increased levels of U2 and decreased levels of U4 are found associated with the U5 snRNP protein Prp8. These results suggest a requirement for Ntr1 for turnover of the excised intron complex and recycling of snRNPs. Ntr1 interacts directly or indirectly with the intron release factor Prp43 and is required for its association with the excised intron. We propose that Ntr1 promotes release of excised introns from splicing complexes by acting as a spliceosome receptor or RNA-targeting factor for Prp43, possibly assisted by the Ntr2 protein.
The EF-G-like GTPase Snu114p regulates spliceosome dynamics mediated by Brr2p, a DExD/H box ATPase.	Binding of a pre-mRNA substrate triggers spliceosome activation, whereas the release of the mRNA product triggers spliceosome disassembly. The mechanisms that underlie the regulation of these rearrangements remain unclear. We find evidence that the GTPase Snu114p mediates the regulation of spliceosome activation and disassembly. Specifically, both unwinding of U4/U6, required for spliceosome activation, and disassembly of the postsplicing U2/U6.U5.intron complex are repressed by Snu114p bound to GDP and derepressed by Snu114p bound to GTP or nonhydrolyzable GTP analogs. Further, similar to U4/U6 unwinding, spliceosome disassembly requires the DExD/H box ATPase Brr2p. Together, our data define a common mechanism for regulating and executing spliceosome activation and disassembly. Although sequence similarity with EF-G suggests Snu114p functions as a molecular motor, our findings indicate that Snu114p functions as a classic regulatory G protein. We propose that Snu114p serves as a signal-dependent switch that transduces signals to Brr2p to control spliceosome dynamics.
Functional splice variants of the type II G protein-coupled receptor (VPAC2) for vasoactive intestinal peptide in mouse and human lymphocytes.	A PCR-based search for splice variants of the VPAC2 G protein-coupled receptor for vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) revealed: (a) a short-deletion variant in mouse lymphocytes termed VPAC2de367-380, that lacks 14 amino acids in the seventh transmembrane domain, and (b) a long-deletion variant in human lymphocytes termed VPAC2de325-438(i325-334), that lacks 114 amino acids beginning with the carboxyl-terminal end of the third cytoplasmic loop and has 10 new carboxy-terminal amino acids. VPAC2de367-380 binds VIP normally, but shows reduced VIP-evoked signaling and effects on immune functions, whereas VPAC2de325-438(i325-334) shows reduced binding affinity for VIP and a complex pattern of functional differences. These splice variants may modify the immunoregulatory contributions of the VIP-VPAC2 axis.
A splice variant to PACAP receptor that is involved in spermatogenesis is expressed in astrocytes.	The pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) receptor, PAC1, recognizes PACAP with a higher affinity than it recognizes vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and belongs to the subfamily G protein-coupled receptors. So far, more than 10 different splice variants of PAC1 have been cloned from rat tissue. Interestingly, the various PAC1 splice variants exhibit different signaling pathways. These splice variants are suggested to play a functional role mostly in the brain as well as in the testes. The present article introduces PAC1(3a) that was originally discovered in testes as another potential regulator in rat astrocytes.
Ca2+ -dependent splicing of neurexin IIalpha.	Neurexins are synaptic adhesion proteins encoded by 3 genes (NRXN1, NRXN2, and NRXN3) each transcribed from 2 promoters to yield longer (alpha) and shorter (beta) forms. The primary gene transcripts undergo extensive alternative splicing leading to products that may differ in synaptic coupling properties. Here we show that depolarization of neurons modulates splicing of NRXN2alpha, particularly at splice sites 1 and 3. Furthermore, we demonstrate that exclusion of exon 11 at splice site 3 is calcium-dependent. These data indicate neuronal activity-dependent splicing of NRXN2alpha. This dynamic process may be important for maintenance of mature neuronal circuits.
An IL-7 splicing-defect lymphopenia mouse model revealed by genome-wide mutagenesis.	Homeostasis of the hematopoietic system is tightly regulated by an array of cytokines that control proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis of various cell lineages. To identify genes that are essential for hematopoietic homeostasis, we screened C57BL/6 mice that had been genome-wide mutagenized by N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) to produce altered blood cell composition. We identified a mutant mouse line with a drastic reduction in the number of T and B cell lineages in lymphatic tissues and peripheral blood, as well as severe atrophy of the thymus and lymph nodes. Genotyping with a genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) marker set mapped the mutant phenotype to chromosome 3A and subsequent direct DNA sequencing revealed a G-to-A point mutation in the splicing donor site of the third exon of the candidate gene for IL-7, a lymphocyte survival cytokine. Such mutation resulted in skipping of exon 3 and production of an internally truncated IL-7 (DeltaE3-IL7). Furthermore, using recombinant proteins produced in a baculoviral system, we demonstrated that DeltaE3-IL7 had no detectable anti-apoptotic activity even at a dose that was 30 times more than that required for a wild-type protein to manifest a full activity in a nave T cell survival assay. Our data suggest that this mutant mouse line provides an alternative animal model for the study of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) syndrome in humans.
Abnormal apolipoprotein B pre-mRNA splicing in patients with familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia.	Familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia (FHBL) is a codominant disorder characterised by fatty liver and reduced plasma levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and its protein constituent apolipoprotein B (apoB). FHBL is linked to the APOB gene in some but not all known cases. In a group of 59 patients with FHBL genotyped for APOB gene mutations, we found three novel splice-site mutations: c.904+4A-->G in intron 8, c.3843-2A-->G in intron 24 and c.4217-1G-->T in intron 25.
Control of splicing efficiency by the mouse histone H2a element in a murine leukemia virus-based retroviral vector.	While using various human complementary DNA (cDNA) sequences in the context of the murine leukemia virus (MLV)-based retroviral vector, it was found that a retroviral vector containing some human cDNA sequences produces unusually low viral titer. One of those sequences is that for the human IL-1 receptor antagonist protein (IL1RN). The RNA analysis showed that a cryptic splice acceptor sequence is present in the middle of its coding region, resulting in the deletion of the packaging signal sequence and the removal of some coding sequences that lead to low viral titer and a low level of the transgene product. We tested whether the mouse Hist2h2aa1 element (mH2aE), previously shown to suppress the splicing function, could inhibit the cryptic splicing in the context of MLV-based retroviral vectors. It was found that the mH2aE could efficiently suppress such unwanted splicing event, thus increasing the amount of unspliced transcript, which eventually led to the increase in the level of IL1RN expression and viral titer. The mH2aE could also be used to control unusually high splicing activity. Our data suggested that the mH2aE could be used for the fine-tuning of the splicing process, thus improving the level of gene expression and viral titer in the context of retroviral vectors.
Three common alleles of KIR2DL4 (CD158d) encode constitutively expressed, inducible and secreted receptors in NK cells.	Genetic polymorphism of KIR2DL4 results in alleles with either 9 or 10 consecutive adenines in exon 6, which encodes the transmembrane domain. "10A" alleles encode a membrane-expressed receptor that is constitutively expressed on resting CD56bright NK cells and on CD56dim cells after culture. However, in some individuals with the 10A allele, KIR2DL4 cannot be detected on their resting CD56bright NK cells. "9A" alleles have been predicted to encode a secreted receptor due to the splicing out of the transmembrane region. In this publication, we show that those individuals with a 10A allele who lack detectable KIR2DL4 on CD56bright NK cells express a KIR2DL4 receptor in which the D0-domain is excised. This Delta-D0 receptor cannot be detected by the available anti-KIR2DL4 monoclonal antibodies. In such individuals, KIR2DL4 becomes detectable on cultured NK cells due to up-regulation of the full-length KIR2DL4 transcript. In all individuals with 10A alleles, KIR2DL4 ceases to be expressed at the cell surface 16 days after activation, despite the maintenance of maximal levels of KIR2DL4 mRNA transcription, suggesting the existence of a negative regulator of cell surface expression. Finally, we show that the 9A allele can produce a secreted KIR2DL4 receptor.
The cathepsin L first intron stimulates gene expression in rat sertoli cells.	Large amounts of cathepsin L (CTSL), a cysteine protease required for quantitatively normal spermatogenesis, are synthesized by mouse and rat Sertoli cells during stages VI to VII of the cycle of the seminiferous epithelium. We previously demonstrated that all of the regulatory elements required in vivo for both Sertoli cell- and stage-specific expression of the Ctsl gene are present within a ~3-kb genomic fragment that contains 2065 nucleotides upstream of the transcription start site and 977 nucleotides of downstream sequence. Most of the downstream region encodes the first intron. In this study, transient transfection assays using primary Sertoli cell cultures and the TM4 Sertoli cell line established that the Ctsl first intron increased reporter gene activity by ~5-fold. While the intron-mediated enhancement in reporter gene activity was not restricted to the Ctsl promoter, positioning the first intron upstream of the Ctsl promoter in either orientation abolished its stimulatory activity, suggesting that it does not contain a typical enhancer. Mutating the 5'-splice site of the Ctsl first intron or replacing the first intron by the Ctsl fourth intron abolished the stimulatory effect. Finally, the intron-dependent increase in reporter gene activity could be explained in part by an increase in the amounts of total RNA and transcript polyadenylation. Results from this study suggest that the stimulatory effect mediated by the Ctsl first intron may explain in part why Sertoli cells in seminiferous tubules at stages VI to VII produce high levels of CTSL.
Characterization of rainbow trout myostatin-2 genes (rtMSTN-2a and -2b): genomic organization, differential expression, and pseudogenization.	Myostatin is an extremely potent negative regulator of vertebrate skeletal muscle development. A phylogenetic analysis suggests that salmonids should possess four distinct genes, although only MSTN-1 orthologs have been characterized. Described herein are the rainbow trout (rt) MSTN-2a and -2b genes and subsequence analysis of their promoters and their quantitative expression profiles. Both genes are similarly organized, contain several putative myogenic response elements, and are legitimate MSTN-2 orthologs based on Bayesian analyses. However, rtMSTN-2b contains two in-frame stop codons within the first exon and unspliced variants of both transcripts were expressed in a tissue-specific manner. Complete splicing of rtMSTN-2a occurred only in brain, where expression is highest, whereas rtMSTN-2b transcripts were mostly present in unspliced forms. The presence of stop codons in the rtMSTN-2b open reading frame and the expression of mostly unspliced transcripts indicate that this particular homolog is a pseudogene. These results confirm our previous phylogenetic analysis and suggest that all salmonids likely possess four distinct myostatin genes. The tissue-specific expression and differential processing of both rtMSTN-2 transcripts as well the pseudogenization of rtMSTN-2b may reflect compensatory and adaptive responses to tetraploidization and may help limit rtMSTN-2a's influences primarily to neural tissue.
Mechanistic basis for the pathogenesis of long QT syndrome associated with a common splicing mutation in KCNQ1 gene.	Mutations in KCNQ1, the gene encoding the delayed rectifier K(+) channel in cardiac muscle, cause long QT syndrome (LQTS). We studied 3 families with LQTS, in whom a guanine to adenine change in the last base of exon 7 (c.1032G>A), previously reported as a common splice-site mutation, was identified. We performed quantitative measurements of exon-skipping KCNQ1 mRNAs caused by this mutation using real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Compared with normal individuals who have minor fractions of splicing variants (Delta7-8: 0.1%, Delta8: 6.9%, of total KCNQ1 transcripts), the affected individuals showed remarkable increases of exon-skipping mRNAs (Delta7: 23.5%, Delta7-8: 16.8%, Delta8: 4.5%). Current recordings from Xenopus laevis oocytes heterologously expressing channels of wild-type (WT) or exon-skipping KCNQ1 (Delta7, Delta7-8, or Delta8) revealed that none of the mutants produced any measurable currents, and moreover they displayed mutant-specific degree of dominant-negative effects on WT currents, when co-expressed with WT. Confocal microscopy analysis showed that fluorescent protein-tagged WT was predominantly expressed on the plasma membrane, whereas the mutants showed intracellular distribution. When WT was co-expressed with mutants, the majority of WT co-localized with the mutants in the intracellular space. Finally, we provide evidence showing direct protein-protein interactions between WT and the mutants, by using fluorescence resonance energy transfer. Thus, the mutants may exert their dominant-negative effects by trapping WT intracellularly and thereby interfering its translocation to the plasma membrane. In conclusion, our data provide a mechanistic basis for the pathogenesis of LQTS caused by a splicing mutation in KCNQ1.
The 3' untranslated region complex involved in stabilization of human alpha-globin mRNA assembles in the nucleus and serves an independent role as a splice enhancer.	Posttranscriptional controls, mediated primarily by RNA-protein complexes, have the potential to alter multiple steps in RNA processing and function. Human alpha-globin mRNA is bound at a C-rich motif in the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) by the KH domain protein alpha-globin poly(C)-binding protein (alphaCP). This "alpha-complex" is essential to cytoplasmic stability of alpha-globin mRNA in erythroid cells. Here we report that the 3'UTR alpha-complex also serves an independent nuclear role as a splice enhancer. Consistent with this role, we find that alphaCP binds alpha-globin transcripts prior to splicing. Surprisingly, this binding occurs at C-rich sites within intron I as well as at the 3'UTR C-rich determinant. The intronic and 3'UTR alphaCP complexes appear to have distinct effects on splicing. While intron I complexes repress intron I excision, the 3'UTR complex enhances splicing of the full-length transcript both in vivo and in vitro. In addition to its importance to splicing, nuclear assembly of the 3'UTR alphaCP complex may serve to "prepackage" alpha-globin mRNA with its stabilizing complex prior to cytoplasmic export. Linking nuclear and cytoplasmic controls by the action of a particular RNA-binding protein, as reported here, may represent a modality of general importance in eukaryotic gene regulation.
Identification of photoreceptor genes affected by PRPF31 mutations associated with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa.	Several ubiquitously expressed genes encoding pre-mRNA splicing factors have been associated with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (adRP), including PRPF31, PRPF3 and PRPF8. Molecular mechanisms by which defects in pre-mRNA splicing factors cause photoreceptor degeneration are not clear. To investigate the role of pre-mRNA splicing in photoreceptor gene expression and function, we have begun to search for photoreceptor genes whose pre-mRNA splicing is affected by mutations in PRPF31. Using an immunoprecipitation-coupled-microarray method, we identified a number of transcripts associated with PRPF31-containing complexes, including peripherin/RDS, FSCN2 and other photoreceptor-expressed genes. We constructed minigenes to study the effects of PRPF31 mutations on the pre-mRNA splicing of these photoreceptor specific genes. Our experiments demonstrated that mutant PRPF31 significantly inhibited pre-mRNA splicing of RDS and FSCN2. These observations suggest a functional link between ubiquitously expressed and retina-specifically expressed adRP genes. Our results indicate that PRPF31 mutations lead to defective pre-mRNA splicing of photoreceptor-specific genes and that the ubiquitously expressed adRP gene, PRPF31, is critical for pre-mRNA splicing of a subset of photoreceptor genes. Our results provide an explanation for the photoreceptor-specific phenotype of PRPF31 mutations.
Structural characterization of the fission yeast U5.U2/U6 spliceosome complex.	The spliceosome is a dynamic macromolecular machine that catalyzes the excision of introns from pre-mRNA. The megadalton-sized spliceosome is composed of four small nuclear RNPs and additional pre-mRNA splicing factors. The formation of an active spliceosome involves a series of regulated steps that requires the assembly and disassembly of large multiprotein/RNA complexes. The dynamic nature of the pre-mRNA splicing reaction has hampered progress in analyzing the structure of spliceosomal complexes. We have used cryo-electron microscopy to produce a 29-A density map of a stable 37S spliceosomal complex from the genetically tractable fission yeast, Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Containing the U2, U5, and U6 snRNAs, pre-mRNA splicing intermediates, U2 and U5 snRNP proteins, the Nineteen Complex (NTC), and second-step splicing factors, this complex closely resembles in vitro purified mammalian C complex. The density map reveals an asymmetric particle, approximately 30 x 20 x 18 nm in size, which is composed of distinct domains that contact each other at the center of the complex.
Hypomorphic mutations in the gene encoding a key Fanconi anemia protein, FANCD2, sustain a significant group of FA-D2 patients with severe phenotype.	FANCD2 is an evolutionarily conserved Fanconi anemia (FA) gene that plays a key role in DNA double-strand-type damage responses. Using complementation assays and immunoblotting, a consortium of American and European groups assigned 29 patients with FA from 23 families and 4 additional unrelated patients to complementation group FA-D2. This amounts to 3%-6% of FA-affected patients registered in various data sets. Malformations are frequent in FA-D2 patients, and hematological manifestations appear earlier and progress more rapidly when compared with all other patients combined (FA-non-D2) in the International Fanconi Anemia Registry. FANCD2 is flanked by two pseudogenes. Mutation analysis revealed the expected total of 66 mutated alleles, 34 of which result in aberrant splicing patterns. Many mutations are recurrent and have ethnic associations and shared allelic haplotypes. There were no biallelic null mutations; residual FANCD2 protein of both isotypes was observed in all available patient cell lines. These analyses suggest that, unlike the knockout mouse model, total absence of FANCD2 does not exist in FA-D2 patients, because of constraints on viable combinations of FANCD2 mutations. Although hypomorphic mutations arie involved, clinically, these patients have a relatively severe form of FA.
Splice site prediction using stochastic regular grammars.	This paper presents a novel approach to the problem of splice site prediction, by applying stochastic grammar inference. We used four grammar inference algorithms to infer 1465 grammars, and used 10-fold cross-validation to select the best grammar for each algorithm. The corresponding grammars were embedded into a classifier and used to run splice site prediction and compare the results with those of NNSPLICE, the predictor used by the Genie gene finder. We indicate possible paths to improve this performance by using Sakakibara's windowing technique to find probability thresholds that will lower false-positive predictions.
Niemann-Pick C disease: functional characterization of three NPC2 mutations and clinical and molecular update on patients with NPC2.	Niemann-Pick type C disease (NPC), a neurovisceral disorder characterized by accumulation of unesterified cholesterol and glycolipids in the lysosomal/late endosomal system, is due to mutations on either the NPC1 or the NPC2 genes. We report the diagnosis of six unrelated patients with NPC2, all with homozygous mutations. We further attempted functional characterization of the p.P120S, p.Q146X and IVS1 + 2 t>c mutations under native conditions. This was achieved by immunoblotting and immunocytofluorescence microscopy on cultured skin fibroblasts and in silico modeling. IVS1 + 2 t>c led to multiple transcripts, with only abnormally spliced cDNAs. Among the three NPC2 variants, only p.P120S led to detectable amounts of an immunoreactive protein. This protein showed a normal lysosomal localization. Our results suggest that the p.P120S mutation, the first naturally occurring missense mutation located in the cholesterol-binding Evolutionarily Constrained Regions D domain, results in reduced amounts of a protein capable to reach the lysosome, but unable to efficiently bind cholesterol. The patient had a juvenile neurological onset form of the disease. An update of the 22 families with mutations in the NPC2 gene, currently known to us, confirms the good genotype-phenotype correlations seen in this disorder. Characterization of more naturally occurring NPC2 mutations may help to dissect further the functional domains of the protein.
The influence of pre-mRNA splicing on phenotypic modification in Stickler's syndrome and other type II collagenopathies.	This paper will illustrate how variation in the processing of mutant pre-mRNA can affect the phenotypic outcome of inherited disorders of type II collagen.
Sequence variation and linkage of potato U2snRNA-encoding genes established by PCR.	Plant uridylate-rich small nuclear RNA (UsnRNA)-encoding genes (UsnRNA) are present as multigene families exhibiting greater sequence variation than has been described in animal UsnRNA families. The potato U2snRNA multigene family has 25 to 40 potential gene members. Four gene variants have been analysed to date, two of which are linked. In order to investigate U2snRNA expression in potato in terms of the function of such sequence variation in development, the degree of sequence variation in both the coding region and flanking regions in this gene family must be assessed. On the assumption that at least some U2snRNA genes are linked, a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) approach, using primers designed to amplify intergenic nucleotide sequences including coding and 5' flanking regions, has been devised. Six new U2snRNA gene variant sequences and one U2snRNA pseudogene sequence have been generated. In addition, six new flanking region sequences have been produced which, in contrast to other plant UsnRNA gene families, show considerable variation in the important upstream sequence element. This PCR approach may be applicable to the analysis of genomic organisation and sequence variation of other multigene families.
Control of adenovirus alternative RNA splicing: effect of viral DNA replication on RNA splice site choice.	The primary transcripts of most adenovirus transcription units are processed into multiple, alternatively spliced mRNAs. The relative concentrations of such differentially processed mRNAs changes during the infectious cycle. The factors that control this temporal shift in mRNA abundance have not yet been characterized. In the experiments presented here we have examined mRNA synthesis from three viral transcription units: two early regions E1a and E1b, and late region L1. We show that viral DNA replication plays a key role in the control of cytoplasmic mRNA expression from these regions. In the absence of efficient late protein synthesis, viral DNA replication was sufficient to induce a substantial fraction of the E1a, E1b and L1 transcripts to shift from the early to the late pattern of mRNA structure. The shift was not complete under the conditions used, suggesting that viral proteins, although not essential for the process, play an important regulatory role. The requirement for late viral protein synthesis differed between the three transcription units examined. This dependence was most pronounced for correct L1 mRNA production. Viral DNA replication was sufficient to trigger a significant shift in L1 alternative 3' splice site selection. However, in the absence of late translation the L1 pre-mRNA was aberrantly spliced.
Rapid and efficient gene splicing using megaprimer-based protocol.	Megaprimer-based methodology has been widely applied in site-directed mutagenesis, but rarely used in gene splicing. In this article, we describe a modification of the megaprimer PCR method, which can efficiently create and amplify a specific ligated chimeric gene segment in a PCR reaction and under a common PCR program that is widely used by researchers. More importantly, this modified method for splicing two or more gene fragments together revealed the mechanism of the megaprimer PCR method, by elucidating the key factor in the megaprimer-based protocol. In this method, the denatured megaprimer divided into two strands. One strand was used as template DNA to regenerate megaprimer and the other strand was used as an oligonucleotide primer to create a ligated chimeric gene product. In this article, we detail the modified megaprimer protocol for creating and amplifying these chimeric gene products, including a specific protocol for large chimeric gene products. We also provide additional tips to increase specificity and efficiency of the protocols. In conclusion, the improved megaprimer PCR protocol is a simple, broadly applicable protocol for splicing two different gene fragments together without relying on restriction sites.
Automatic detection of exonic splicing enhancers (ESEs) using SVMs.	Exonic splicing enhancers (ESEs) activate nearby splice sites and promote the inclusion (vs. exclusion) of exons in which they reside, while being a binding site for SR proteins. To study the impact of ESEs on alternative splicing it would be useful to have a possibility to detect them in exons. Identifying SR protein-binding sites in human DNA sequences by machine learning techniques is a formidable task, since the exon sequences are also constrained by their functional role in coding for proteins.
Phosphorylation switches the general splicing repressor SRp38 to a sequence-specific activator.	SRp38 is an atypical SR protein that functions as a general splicing repressor when dephosphorylated. We now show that phosphorylated SRp38 functions as a sequence-specific splicing activator. Unlike characterized splicing activators, SRp38 functions in the absence of other SR proteins but requires a cofactor for activity. SRp38 was able to induce formation of splicing complex A in the absence of the cofactor, but this factor was necessary for progression to complexes B and C. Mechanistically, SRp38 strengthens the ability of the U1 and U2 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins to stably recognize the pre-mRNA. Extending these findings, analysis of alternative splicing of pre-mRNA encoding the glutamate receptor B revealed that SRp38 alters its splicing pattern in a sequence-specific manner. Together, our data demonstrate that SRp38, in addition to its role as a splicing repressor, can function as an unusual sequence-specific splicing activator.
Familial hypomagnesaemia with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis (FHHNC): compound heterozygous mutation in the claudin 16 (CLDN16) gene.	Familial hypomagnesaemia with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis (FHHNC) is an autosomal recessive disorder of renal calcium and magnesium wasting frequently complicated by progressive chronic renal failure in childhood or adolescence.
Identification of spliced baculovirus RNAs expressed late in infection.	Previous to this study, the Autographa californica multicapsid nuclear polyhedrosis virus (AcMNPV) was known to express only one spliced RNA (spliced IE1 or IE0). We have conducted an analysis of RNA expressed during infection of Spodoptera frugiperda cells with AcMNPV and have identified a set of five additional spliced RNAs expressed late in infection. A reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis was used to confirm the identification of the LS (late, spliced) RNAs. S1 nuclease and primer extension analyses were used to map the transcription initiation sites of LS RNAs. LS1 and LS2 initiated at positions -138 and -117, respectively (relative to the IE0 +1 transcription start site). Both LS1 and LS2 contain an additional cistron potentially encoding a small, highly basic polypeptide. LS3 (-79), LS4 (-22), and LS5 (+51/52) RNAs encode only the predicted downstream IE0 ORF. Although several baculovirus late gene consensus transcription initiation sites (ATAAG) were identified within this region, only LS5 initiated at one of these conserved motifs. An S1 nuclease analysis was done to determine whether unspliced precursors of LS RNAs could be detected. Early in infection, a greater proportion of IE0 RNA was detected in the spliced form; however, during the late phase of infection a significantly greater amount of unspliced precursor forms of LS RNAs was observed.
Temporal aspects of major viral transcript expression in Hep G2 cells transfected with cloned hepatitis B virus DNA: with emphasis on the X transcript.	The major transcripts of hepatitis B virus (HBV) and the kinetics of their expression were studied in a transient expression system by transfecting partially duplicated copies of HBV genome into Hep G2 cells. By Northern blotting, six species of HBV-specific transcripts could be identified. They were the pregenomic (3.6 kb), the preS1 (2.6 kb), the preS2/S (2.2 kb), the X (0.8 kb), and two spliced (2.2 kb) RNAs, respectively. The preS2/S RNA and the spliced RNAs could be distinguished when a core gene-specific probe, which could not hybridize with the former, was used. Kinetic analysis of the expression of these RNAs revealed that the X transcript exhibited a pattern different from that of other viral transcripts. Amounts of all RNAs peaked at 24-48 hr post-transfection and then gradually declined. However, the X transcript became undetectable on Day 4 post-transfection while other viral RNAs persisted for at least 10 days. The unique expression profile of the X transcript suggested that it probably behaves as an early gene and this is consistent with its proposed role as a transactivator. Nevertheless, frameshift mutations within the X ORF had no obvious effects on the activities and temporal pattern of HBV transcription in this transient expression system.
A suppressor of a yeast splicing mutation (prp8-1) encodes a putative ATP-dependent RNA helicase.	Five small nuclear RNAs (snRNAs) are required for nuclear pre-messenger RNA splicing: U1, U2, U4, U5 and U6. The yeast U1 and U2 snRNAs base-pair to the 5' splice site and branch-point sequences of introns respectively. The role of the U5 and U4/U6 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles (snRNPs) in splicing is not clear, though a catalytic role for the U6 snRNA has been proposed. Less is known about yeast splicing factors, but the availability of genetic techniques in Saccharomyces cerevisiae has led to the identification of mutants deficient in nuclear pre-mRNA splicing (prp2-prp27). Several PRP genes have now been cloned and their protein products characterized. The PRP8 protein is a component of the U5 snRNP and associates with the U4/U6 snRNAs/snRNP to form a multi-snRNP particle believed to be important for spliceosome assembly. We have isolated extragenic suppressors of the prp8-1 mutation of S. cerevisiae and present here the preliminary characterization of one of these suppressors, spp81. The predicted amino-acid sequence of the SPP81 protein shows extensive similarity to a recently identified family of proteins thought to possess ATP-dependent RNA helicase activity. The possible role of this putative helicase in nuclear pre-mRNA splicing is discussed.
An unusual form of alternative splicing in the HLA-DNA gene.	The HLA-DNA gene of the human major histocompatibility complex (MHC) produces RNA transcripts of unusual size compared to the 1.3 kilobase (kb) transcripts of other class II genes. Several cDNA clones derived from HLA-DNA transcripts were isolated, including a full-length 3.5 kb cDNA named DN1. Sequence analysis of DN1 demonstrated that the 3.5 kb transcript is fully spliced, contains a long 3' untranslated region, and encodes an apparently normal class II alpha chain. Two other cDNA clones, DN2 and DN7, revealed an alternative splice that resulted from the use of a splice acceptor upstream of the second exon encoding the alpha 1 domain. The translation product of this alternative transcript would share the signal sequence of the DN alpha chain but would otherwise be unrelated. Removal of the signal sequence would yield a highly basic peptide of 42 amino acids. RNA was prepared by in vitro transcription of DN1 and DN2, and was used to direct protein synthesis in a rabbit reticulocyte system. The product of DN1 had an apparent relative mass of 25,000, whereas the product of DN2 was a peptide with a relative mass of about 6000. The alternatively spliced RNA represents about 1/10 of the transcripts from the HLA-DNA gene in the cells tested, which included transformed B-cell lines as well as normal blood cells and thymus cells.
A method of predicting changes in human gene splicing induced by genetic variants in context of cis-acting elements.	Polymorphic variants and mutations disrupting canonical splicing isoforms are among the leading causes of human hereditary disorders. While there is a substantial evidence of aberrant splicing causing Mendelian diseases, the implication of such events in multi-genic disorders is yet to be well understood. We have developed a new tool (SpliceScan II) for predicting the effects of genetic variants on splicing and cis-regulatory elements. The novel Bayesian non-canonical 5'GC splice site (SS) sensor used in our tool allows inference on non-canonical exons.
Identification of a novel splicing isoform of murine CGI-58.	The comparative gene identification-58 (CGI-58) gene, mutations of which are linked to Chanarin-Dorfman syndrome, encodes a protein of the alpha/beta hydrolase domain subfamily. We report here a new alternative splicing isoform of the murine CGI-58 gene, termed mCGI-58S. Sequence comparison indicates the lack of second and third exons in this cDNA variant. While the full-length protein displayed perilipin-dependent localization to lipid droplets, mCGI-58S showed a predominant cytoplasmic staining when expressed in cells. mCGI-58S was incapable of activating adipose triglyceride lipase but retained the capacity to acylate lysophosphatidic acid. Overexpression of mCGI-58S failed to promote lipid droplet turnover and loss of intracellular triacylglycerols. These results suggest that this splicing event may be involved in the regulation of lipid homeostasis.
Multiple abnormally spliced ABCA1 mRNAs caused by a novel splice site mutation of ABCA1 gene in a patient with Tangier disease.	Mutations in ABCA1 gene are the cause of Tangier disease (TD) and familial high density lipoprotein (HDL) deficiency. Splice site mutations of this gene were reported infrequently.
An organellar maturase associates with multiple group II introns.	Bacterial group II introns encode maturase proteins required for splicing. In organelles of photosynthetic land plants, most of the group II introns have lost the reading frames for maturases. Here, we show that the plastidial maturase MatK not only interacts with its encoding intron within trnK-UUU, but also with six additional group II introns, all belonging to intron subclass IIA. Mapping analyses of RNA binding sites revealed MatK to recognize multiple regions within the trnK intron. Organellar group II introns are considered to be the ancestors of nuclear spliceosomal introns. That MatK associates with multiple intron ligands makes it an attractive model for an early trans-acting nuclear splicing activity.
Homozygosity mapping reveals mutations of GRXCR1 as a cause of autosomal-recessive nonsyndromic hearing impairment.	We identified overlapping homozygous regions within the DFNB25 locus in two Dutch and ten Pakistani families with sensorineural autosomal-recessive nonsyndromic hearing impairment (arNSHI). Only one of the families, W98-053, was not consanguineous, and its sibship pointed toward a reduced critical region of 0.9 Mb. This region contained the GRXCR1 gene, and the orthologous mouse gene was described to be mutated in the pirouette (pi) mutant with resulting hearing loss and circling behavior. Sequence analysis of the GRXCR1 gene in hearing-impaired family members revealed splice-site mutations in two Dutch families and a missense and nonsense mutation, respectively, in two Pakistani families. The splice-site mutations are predicted to cause frameshifts and premature stop codons. In family W98-053, this could be confirmed by cDNA analysis. GRXCR1 is predicted to contain a GRX-like domain. GRX domains are involved in reversible S-glutathionylation of proteins and thereby in the modulation of activity and/or localization of these proteins. The missense mutation is located in this domain, whereas the nonsense and splice-site mutations may result in complete or partial absence of the GRX-like domain or of the complete protein. Hearing loss in patients with GRXCR1 mutations is congenital and is moderate to profound. Progression of the hearing loss was observed in family W98-053. Vestibular dysfunction was observed in some but not all affected individuals. Quantitative analysis of GRXCR1 transcripts in fetal and adult human tissues revealed a preferential expression of the gene in fetal cochlea, which may explain the nonsyndromic nature of the hearing impairment.
A conserved unusual posttranscriptional processing mediated by short, direct repeated (SDR) sequences in plants.	In several stress responsive gene loci of monocot cereal crops, we have previously identified an unusual posttranscriptional processing mediated by paired presence of short direct repeated (SDR) sequences at 5' and 3' splicing junctions that are distinct from conventional (U2/U12-type) splicing boundaries. By using the known SDR-containing sequences as probes, 24 plant candidate genes involved in diverse functional pathways from both monocots and dicots that potentially possess SDR-mediated posttranscriptional processing were predicted in the GenBank database. The SDRs-mediated posttranscriptional processing events including cis- and trans-actions were experimentally detected in majority of the predicted candidates. Extensive sequence analysis demonstrates several types of SDR-associated splicing peculiarities including partial exon deletion, exon fragment repetition, exon fragment scrambling and trans-splicing that result in either loss of partial exon or unusual exonic sequence rearrangements within or between RNA molecules. In addition, we show that the paired presence of SDR is necessary but not sufficient in SDR-mediated splicing in transient expression and stable transformation systems. We also show prokaryote is incapable of SDR-mediated premRNA splicing.
A phylogenetic study of U4 snRNA reveals the existence of an evolutionarily conserved secondary structure corresponding to 'free' U4 snRNA.	The nucleotide sequence of Physarum polycephalum U4 snRNA*** was determined and compared to published U4 snRNA sequences. The primary structure of P polycephalum U4 snRNA is closer to that of plants and animals than to that of fungi. But, both fungi and P polycephalum U4 snRNAs are missing the 3' terminal hairpin and this may be a common feature of lower eucaryote U4 snRNAs. We found that the secondary structure model we previously proposed for 'free' U4 snRNA is compatible with the various U4 snRNA sequences published. The possibility to form this tetrahelix structure is preserved by several compensatory base substitutions and by compensatory nucleotide insertions and deletions. According to this finding, association between U4 and U6 snRNAs implies the disruption of 2 internal helical structures of U4 snRNA. One has a very low free energy, but the other, which represents one-half of the helical region of the 5' hairpin, requires 4 to 5 kcal to be open. The remaining part of the 5' hairpin is maintained in the U4/U6 complex and we observed the conservation, in all U4 snRNAs studied, of a U bulge residue at the limit between the helical region which has to be melted and that which is maintained. The 3' domain of U4 snRNA is less conserved in both size and primary structure than the 5' domain; its structure is also more compact in the RNA in solution. In this domain, only the Sm binding site and the presence of a bulge nucleotide in the hairpin on the 5' side of the Sm site are conserved throughout evolution.
prp4 from Schizosaccharomyces pombe, a mutant deficient in pre-mRNA splicing isolated using genes containing artificial introns.	We have generated a bank of temperature-sensitive (ts) Schizosaccharomyces pombe mutant strains. About 150 of these mutants were transformed with a ura4 gene containing an artificial intron. We screened these ts mutants for mutants deficient in splicing of the ura4 intron. With this approach three mutants were isolated which have a general defect in the splicing process. Two of these mutants fall into the prp1 complementation group and one defines a new complementation group, prp4.
A brain-derived MeCP2 complex supports a role for MeCP2 in RNA processing.	Mutations in MECP2 (methyl-CpG-binding protein 2) are linked to the severe postnatal neurodevelopmental disorder RTT (Rett syndrome). MeCP2 was originally characterized as a transcriptional repressor that preferentially bound methylated DNA; however, recent results indicate MeCP2 is a multifunctional protein. MeCP2 binding is now associated with certain expressed genes and involved in nuclear organization as well, indicating that its gene regulatory function is context-dependent. In addition, MeCP2 is proposed to regulate mRNA splicing and a mouse model for RTT shows aberrant mRNA splicing. To further understand MeCP2 and potential roles in RTT pathogenesis, we have employed a biochemical approach to identify the MeCP2 protein complexes present in the mammalian brain. We show that MeCP2 exists in at least four biochemically distinct pools in the brain and characterize one novel brain-derived MeCP2 complex that contains the splicing factor Prpf3 (pre-mRNA processing factor 3). MeCP2 directly interacts with Prpf3 in vitro and in vivo and many MECP2 RTT truncations disrupt the MeCP2-Prpf3 complex. In addition, MeCP2 and Prpf3 associate in vivo with mRNAs from genes known to be expressed when their promoters are associated with MeCP2. These results support a role for MeCP2 in mRNA biogenesis and suggest an additional mechanism for RTT pathophysiology.
Impaired minor tri-snRNP assembly generates differential splicing defects of U12-type introns in lymphoblasts derived from a type I SMA patient.	The survival of motor neuron (SMN) protein is essential for cytoplasmic assembly of spliceosomal snRNPs. Although the normal proportion of endogenous snRNAs is unevenly altered in spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) tissues, the biogenesis of individual snRNPs is not dramatically affected in SMN-deficient cells. The SMN protein is also required for normal Cajal body (CB) formation, but the functional consequences of CB disruption upon SMN deficiency have not yet been analyzed at the level of macromolecular snRNPs assembly. Here, we show that the SMN protein is required for tri-snRNPs formation and that the level of the minor U4atac/U6atac/U5 tri-snRNPs is dramatically decreased in lymphoblasts derived from a patient suffering from a severe form of SMA. We found also that splicing of some, but not all, minor introns is inhibited in these cells, demonstrating links between SMN deficiency and differential alterations of splicing events mediated by the minor spliceosome. Our results suggest that SMA might result from the inefficient splicing of one or only a few pre-mRNAs carrying minor introns and coding for proteins required for motor neurons function and/or organization.
Effect of a splice site mutation in LDLR gene and two variations in PCSK9 gene in Tunisian families with familial hypercholesterolaemia.	Autosomal dominant hypercholesterolaemia (ADH) is due to defects in the LDL receptor gene (LDLR), in the apolipoprotein B-100 gene (APOB) or in the proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 gene (PCSK9). The aim of this study was to identify and to characterize mutations at the origin of ADH in two Tunisian families. We found three genomic variations: (1) c.1845 + 1G > A, a splice site mutation in the LDLR gene and (2) two variations in the PCSK9 gene (p.Phe515Leu and p.Gly670Glu) that were both reported to be associated with high LDL-C levels. These results enlarge the spectrum of ADH-causative LDLR and PCSK9 variations in Tunisia. Our observations indicate that missense variations in the PCSK9 gene do not influence the clinical phenotype of ADH patients carrying a mutation in the LDLR gene.
Is post-transcriptional stabilization, splicing and translation of selective mRNAs a key to the DNA damage response?	In response to DNA damage, cells activate a complex, kinase-based signaling network that consist of two components--a rapid phosphorylation-driven signaling cascade that results in immediate inhibition of Cdk/cyclin complexes to arrest the cell cycle along with recruitment of repair machinery to damaged DNA, followed by a delayed transcriptional response that promotes cell cycle arrest through the induction of Cdk inhibitors, such as p21. In recent years a third layer of complexity has emerged that involves post-transcriptional control of mRNA stability, splicing, and translation as a critical part of the DNA damage response. Here, we describe recent work implicating DNA damage-dependent modification of RNA-binding proteins that are responsible for some of these mRNA effects, highlighting recent work on post-transcriptional regulation of the cell cycle checkpoint protein/apoptosis inducer Gadd45a by the checkpoint kinase MAPKAP Kinase-2.
A novel 3' splice-site mutation and a novel gross deletion in leukocyte adhesion deficiency (LAD)-1.	A patient was diagnosed with leukocyte adhesion deficiency-1. She was born in 1996 and her parents are not known to be related. Her leukocytes expressed less than 2% of the CD18 antigens relative to normal individuals. Molecular analysis revealed that she is a compound heterozygote. She inherited a 27,703bp deletion from her father (g.43201_PTTG1IP:10890del27703), spanning from intron 11 of the gene for the 2 integrin (ITGB2, CD18, NG_007270.2) to intron 2 of the gene for the Pituitary Tumor-Transforming Gene 1 Interacting Protein (PTTG1IP, NC_000021.8). The maternal allele has a g.23457C>A mutation at position -10 in intron 2 of the ITGB2 gene, resulting in the activation of a cryptic 3' splice site in intron 2 to include 43 intronic nucleotides (r.[59-43_59-1ins;59-10C>A]).
Comparative analysis of information contents relevant to recognition of introns in many species.	The basic process of RNA splicing is conserved among eukaryotic species. Three signals (5' and 3' splice sites and branch site) are commonly used to directly conduct splicing, while other features are also related to the recognition of an intron. Although there is experimental evidence pointing to the significant species specificities in the features of intron recognition, a quantitative evaluation of the divergence of these features among a wide variety of eukaryotes has yet to be conducted.
Temporal and tissue specific regulation of RP-associated splicing factor genes PRPF3, PRPF31 and PRPC8--implications in the pathogenesis of RP.	Genetic mutations in several ubiquitously expressed RNA splicing genes such as PRPF3, PRP31 and PRPC8, have been found to cause retina-specific diseases in humans. To understand this intriguing phenomenon, most studies have been focused on testing two major hypotheses. One hypothesis assumes that these mutations interrupt retina-specific interactions that are important for RNA splicing, implying that there are specific components in the retina interacting with these splicing factors. The second hypothesis suggests that these mutations have only a mild effect on the protein function and thus affect only the metabolically highly active cells such as retinal photoreceptors.
Whole transcriptome sequencing reveals gene expression and splicing differences in brain regions affected by Alzheimer's disease.	Recent studies strongly indicate that aberrations in the control of gene expression might contribute to the initiation and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In particular, alternative splicing has been suggested to play a role in spontaneous cases of AD. Previous transcriptome profiling of AD models and patient samples using microarrays delivered conflicting results. This study provides, for the first time, transcriptomic analysis for distinct regions of the AD brain using RNA-Seq next-generation sequencing technology. Illumina RNA-Seq analysis was used to survey transcriptome profiles from total brain, frontal and temporal lobe of healthy and AD post-mortem tissue. We quantified gene expression levels, splicing isoforms and alternative transcript start sites. Gene Ontology term enrichment analysis revealed an overrepresentation of genes associated with a neuron's cytological structure and synapse function in AD brain samples. Analysis of the temporal lobe with the Cufflinks tool revealed that transcriptional isoforms of the apolipoprotein E gene, APOE-001, -002 and -005, are under the control of different promoters in normal and AD brain tissue. We also observed differing expression levels of APOE-001 and -002 splice variants in the AD temporal lobe. Our results indicate that alternative splicing and promoter usage of the APOE gene in AD brain tissue might reflect the progression of neurodegeneration.
A novel synonymous substitution in the GCK gene causes aberrant splicing in an Italian patient with GCK-MODY phenotype.	GCK gene analysis in an Italian MODY patient revealed a novel synonymous substitution in exon 4 (c.459T>G; p.Pro153Pro) resulting in an aberrant transcript lacking the last eight codons of the same exon. Our findings emphazise the importance of not underestimating synonymous variations when screening for disease-causing mutations.
Functional characterization of the AFF (AF4/FMR2) family of RNA-binding proteins: insights into the molecular pathology of FRAXE intellectual disability.	The AFF (AF4/FMR2) family of genes includes four members: AFF1/AF4, AFF2/FMR2, AFF3/LAF4 and AFF4/AF5q31. AFF2/FMR2 is silenced in FRAXE intellectual disability, while the other three members have been reported to form fusion genes as a consequence of chromosome translocations with the myeloid/lymphoid or mixed lineage leukemia (MLL) gene in acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALLs). All AFF proteins are localized in the nucleus and their role as transcriptional activators with a positive action on RNA elongation was primarily studied. We have recently shown that AFF2/FMR2 localizes to nuclear speckles, subnuclear structures considered as storage/modification sites of pre-mRNA splicing factors, and modulates alternative splicing via the interaction with the G-quadruplex RNA-forming structure. We show here that similarly to AFF2/FMR2, AFF3/LAF4 and AFF4/AF5q31 localize to nuclear speckles and are able to bind RNA, having a high apparent affinity for the G-quadruplex structure. Interestingly, AFF3/LAF4 and AFF4/AF5q31, like AFF2/FMR2, modulate, in vivo, the splicing efficiency of a mini-gene containing a G-quadruplex structure in one alternatively spliced exon. Furthermore, we observed that the overexpression of AFF2/3/4 interferes with the organization and/or biogenesis of nuclear speckles. These findings fit well with our observation that enlarged nuclear speckles are present in FRAXE fibroblasts. Furthermore, our findings suggest functional redundancy among the AFF family members in the regulation of splicing and transcription. It is possible that other members of the AFF family compensate for the loss of AFF2/FMR2 activity and as such explain the relatively mild to borderline phenotype observed in FRAXE patients.
Intronic mutations affecting splicing of MBTPS2 cause ichthyosis follicularis, alopecia and photophobia (IFAP) syndrome.	Ichthyosis follicularis, alopecia and photophobia (IFAP) syndrome is an X-linked genodermatosis with congenital atrichia being the most prominent feature. Recently, we have shown that functional deficiency of MBTPS2 (membrane-bound transcription factor protease site 2) - a zinc metalloprotease essential for cholesterol homeostasis and endoplasmic reticulum stress response - causes the disease. Here, we present results obtained by analysing two intronic MBTPS2 mutations, c.671-9T>G and c.225-6T>A, using in silico and cell-based splicing assays. Accordingly, the c.225-6T>A transversion generated a new splice acceptor site, which caused extension of exon 3 by four bases and subsequently introduced a premature stop codon. Both, minigene experiments and RT-PCR analysis with patient-derived mRNA, demonstrated that the c.671-9T>G mutation resulted in skipping of exon 6, most likely because of disruption of the polypyrimidin tract or a putative intronic splicing enhancer (ISE). Our combined biocomputational and experimental analysis strongly suggested that both intronic alterations are disease-causing mutations.
Functional nuclear organization of transcription and DNA replication: a topographical marriage between chromatin domains and the interchromatin compartment.	We studied the nuclear topography of RNA transcription and DNA replication in mammalian cell types with super-resolution fluorescence microscopy, which offers a resolution beyond the classical Abbe/Raleigh limit. Three-dimensional structured illumination microscopy (3D-SIM) demonstrated a network of channels and wider lacunas, called the interchromatin compartment (IC). The IC starts at nuclear pores and expands throughout the nuclear space. It is demarcated from the compact interior of higher-order chromatin domains (CDs) by a 100-200-nm thick layer of decondensed chromatin, termed the perichromatin region (PR). Nascent DNA, nascent RNA, RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II), as well as histone modifications for transcriptionally competent/active chromatin, are highly enriched in the PR, whereas splicing speckles are observed in the interior of the IC. In line with previous electron microscopic evidence, spectral precision distance/position determination microscopy (SPDM) confirmed the presence of RNA Pol II clusters indicative of transcription factories. Still, a substantial part of transcription apparently takes place outside of such factories. Previous electron microscopic evidence has suggested that the functional nuclear organization of DNA replication depends on brownian movements of chromatin between the CD interior and the PR. As an incentive for future studies, we hypothesize that such movements also take place during transcription, i.e., only the actually transcribed part of a gene may be located within the PR, whereas its major part, including previously or later transcribed sequences, is embedded in a higher-order chromatin configuration in the interior of the CD.
RAD51C is a susceptibility gene for ovarian cancer.	A homozygous mutation in the RAD51C gene was recently found to cause Fanconi anemia-like disorder. Furthermore, six heterozygous deleterious RAD51C mutations were detected in German breast and ovarian cancer families. We screened 277 Finnish familial breast or ovarian cancer patients for RAD51C and identified two recurrent deleterious mutations (c.93delG and c.837+1G>A). These mutations were further genotyped in 491 familial breast cancer patients, 409 unselected ovarian cancer patients and two series of unselected breast cancer cases (884 from Helsinki and 686 from Tampere) and population controls (1279 and 807, respectively). The mutation frequency among all breast cancer cases was not different from the controls (4 out of 2239, 0.2% versus population controls 2 out of 2086, 0.1%, P= 0.7). In the Helsinki series, each mutation was found in four cases with personal or family history of ovarian cancer. No mutations were found among cases with familial breast cancer only, four out of the eight carriers did not have family history of breast cancer. The mutations associated with an increased risk of familial breast and ovarian cancer (OR: 13.59, 95% CI 1.89-97.6, P= 0.026 compared with controls), but especially with familial ovarian cancer in the absence of breast cancer (OR: 213, 95% CI 25.6-1769, P= 0.0002) and also with unselected ovarian cancer (OR: 6.31, 95% CI 1.15-34.6, P= 0.033), with a significantly higher mutation rate among the familial cases (two out of eight, 25%) than the unselected ovarian cancer cases (4 out of 409, 1%) (OR: 33.8, 95% CI 5.15-221, P= 0.005). These results suggest RAD51C as the first moderate-to-high risk susceptibility gene for ovarian cancer.
Quantitative evaluation of all hexamers as exonic splicing elements.	We describe a comprehensive quantitative measure of the splicing impact of a complete set of RNA 6-mer sequences by deep sequencing successfully spliced transcripts. All 4096 6-mers were substituted at five positions within two different internal exons in a 3-exon minigene, and millions of successfully spliced transcripts were sequenced after transfection of human cells. The results allowed the assignment of a relative splicing strength score to each mutant molecule. The effect of 6-mers on splicing often depended on their location; much of this context effect could be ascribed to the creation of different overlapping sequences at each site. Taking these overlaps into account, the splicing effect of each 6-mer could be quantified, and 6-mers could be designated as enhancers (ESEseqs) and silencers (ESSseqs), with an ESRseq score indicating their strength. Some 6-mers exhibited positional bias relative to the two splice sites. The distribution and conservation of these ESRseqs in and around human exons supported their classification. Predicted RNA secondary structure effects were also seen: Effective enhancers, silencers and 3' splice sites tend to be single stranded, and effective 5' splice sites tend to be double stranded. 6-mers that may form positive or negative synergy with another were also identified. Chromatin structure may also influence the splicing enhancement observed, as a good correspondence was found between splicing performance and the predicted nucleosome occupancy scores of 6-mers. This approach may prove of general use in defining nucleic acid regulatory motifs, substitute for functional SELEX in most cases, and provide insights about splicing mechanisms.
A short in-frame deletion in NTRK1 tyrosine kinase domain caused by a novel splice site mutation in a patient with congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis.	Congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis (CIPA) is a rare autosomal recessive genetic disease characterized by the lack of reaction to noxious stimuli and anhidrosis. It is caused by mutations in the NTRK1 gene, which encodes the high affinity tyrosine kinase receptor I for Neurotrophic Growth Factor (NGF).
In silico prediction of splice-affecting nucleotide variants.	It appears that all types of genomic nucleotide variations can be deleterious by affecting normal pre-mRNA splicing via disruption/creation of splice site consensus sequences. As it is neither pertinent nor realistic to perform functional testing for all of these variants, it is important to identify those that could lead to a splice defect in order to restrict experimental transcript analyses to the most appropriate cases. In silico tools designed to provide this type of prediction are available. In this chapter, we present in silico splice tools integrated in the Alamut (Interactive Biosoftware) application and detail their use in routine diagnostic applications. At this time, in silico predictions are useful for variants that decrease the strength of wild-type splice sites or create a cryptic splice site. Importantly, in silico predictions are not sufficient to classify variants as neutral or deleterious: they should be used as part of the decision-making process to detect potential candidates for splicing anomalies, prompting molecular geneticists to carry out transcript analyses in a limited and pertinent number of cases which could be managed in routine settings.
Cotranscriptional RNA checkpoints.	Transcription of protein-coding genes by RNA polymerase II is a repetitive, cyclic process that enables synthesis of multiple RNA molecules from the same template. The transcription cycle consists of three main stages, initiation, elongation and termination. Each of these phases is intimately coupled to a specific step in pre-mRNA processing; 5 capping, splicing and 3-end formation, respectively. In this article, we discuss the recent concept that cotranscriptional checkpoints operate during mRNA biogenesis to ensure that nonfunctional mRNAs with potentially deleterious effects for the cell are not produced or exported to the cytoplasm for translation.
Detection of a rare CDKN2A intronic mutation in a Hungarian melanoma-prone family and its role in splicing regulation.	The major locus for melanoma predisposition is the cell cycle regulatory CDKN2A gene on chromosome 9p21. However, the frequency of germline coding mutations of the CDKN2A gene is lower than expected in melanoma-prone families linked to chromosome 9p21.
A synonymous mutation in SPINK5 exon 11 causes Netherton syndrome by altering exonic splicing regulatory elements.	Netherton syndrome (NS) is a rare, life-threatening ichthyosiform syndrome caused by recessive loss-of-function mutations in SPINK5 gene encoding lymphoepithelial Kazal-type-related inhibitor (LEKTI), a serine protease inhibitor expressed in the most differentiated epidermal layers and crucial for skin barrier function. We report the functional characterization of a previously unrecognized synonymous variant, c.891C>T (p.Cys297Cys), identified in the SPINK5 exon 11 of an NS patient. We demonstrated that the c.891C>T mutation is associated with abnormal pre-mRNA splicing and residual LEKTI expression in the patient's keratinocytes. Subsequent minigene splicing assays and in silico predictions confirmed the direct role of the synonymous mutation in inhibiting exon 11 inclusion by a mechanism that involves the activity of exonic regulatory sequences, namely splicing enhancer and silencer. However, this deleterious effect was not complete and a residual amount of normal mRNA and LEKTI protein could be detected, correlating with the relatively mild patient's phenotype. Our study represents the first identification of a disease-causing SPINK5 mutation that alters splicing without affecting canonical splice sites.
Prognostic impact of mRNA levels of osteopontin splice variants in soft tissue sarcoma patients.	It is well known that osteopontin (OPN) plays an important role in tumor progression and that a high OPN expression level in several tumor entities correlates with poor prognosis in cancer patients. However, little is known about the prognostic relevance of the OPN mRNA splice variants.
Sequestration of MBNL1 in tissues of patients with myotonic dystrophy type 2.	The pathogenesis of myotonic dystrophy type 2 includes the sequestration of MBNL proteins by expanded CCUG transcripts, which leads to an abnormal splicing of their target pre-mRNAs. We have found CCUG(exp) RNA transcripts of the ZNF9 gene associated with the formation of ribonuclear foci in human skeletal muscle and some non-muscle tissues present in muscle biopsies and skin excisions from myotonic dystrophy type 2 patients. Using RNA-FISH and immunofluorescence-FISH methods in combination with a high-resolution confocal microscopy, we demonstrate a different frequency of nuclei containing the CCUG(exp) foci, a different expression pattern of MBNL1 protein and a different sequestration of MBNL1 by CCUG(exp) repeats in skeletal muscle, vascular smooth muscle and endothelia, Schwann cells, adipocytes, and ectodermal derivatives. The level of CCUG(exp) transcription in epidermal and hair sheath cells is lower compared with that in other tissues examined. We suppose that non-muscle tissues of myotonic dystrophy type 2 patients might be affected by a similar molecular mechanism as the skeletal muscle, as suggested by our observation of an aberrant insulin receptor splicing in myotonic dystrophy type 2 adipocytes.
CDKF;1 and CDKD protein kinases regulate phosphorylation of serine residues in the C-terminal domain of Arabidopsis RNA polymerase II.	Phosphorylation of conserved YSPTSPS repeats in the C-terminal domain of largest subunit of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII CTD) plays a central role in the regulation of transcription and cotranscriptional RNA processing. Here, we show that Ser phosphorylation of Arabidopsis thaliana RNAPII CTD is governed by CYCLIN-DEPENDENT KINASE F;1 (CDKF;1), a unique plant-specific CTD S-kinase. CDKF;1 is required for in vivo activation of functionally redundant CYCLIN-DEPENDENT KINASE Ds (CDKDs), which are major CTD S-kinases that also phosphorylate in vitro the S and S CTD residues. Inactivation of CDKF;1 causes extreme dwarfism and sterility. Inhibition of CTD S-phosphorylation in germinating cdkf;1 seedlings is accompanied by 3'-polyadenylation defects of pre-microRNAs and transcripts encoding key regulators of small RNA biogenesis pathways. The cdkf;1 mutation also decreases the levels of both precursor and mature small RNAs without causing global downregulation of the protein-coding transcriptome and enhances the removal of introns that carry pre-microRNA stem-loops. A triple cdkd knockout mutant is not viable, but a combination of null and weak cdkd;3 alleles in a triple cdkd123* mutant permits semidwarf growth. Germinating cdkd123* seedlings show reduced CTD S-phosphorylation, accumulation of uncapped precursor microRNAs, and a parallel decrease in mature microRNA. During later development of cdkd123* seedlings, however, S-phosphorylation and unprocessed small RNA levels decline similarly as in the cdkf;1 mutant. Taken together, cotranscriptional processing and stability of a set of small RNAs and transcripts involved in their biogenesis are sensitive to changes in the phosphorylation of RNAPII CTD by CDKF;1 and CDKDs.
CACG: a database for comparative analysis of conjoined genes.	A conjoined gene is defined as one formed at the time of transcription by combining at least part of one exon from each of two or more distinct genes that lie on the same chromosome, in the same or opposite orientation, which translate independently into different proteins. We comparatively studied the extent of conjoined genes in thirteen genomes by analyzing the public databases of expressed sequence tags and mRNA sequences using a set of computational tools designed to identify conjoined genes on the same DNA strand or opposite DNA strands of the same genomic locus. The CACG database, available at http://cgc.kribb.re.kr/map/, includes a number of conjoined genes (7131-human, 2-chimpanzee, 5-orangutan, 57-chicken, 4-rhesus monkey, 651-cow, 27-dog, 2512-mouse, 263-rat, 1482-zebrafish, 5-horse, 29-sheep, and 8-medaka) and is very effective and easy to use to analyze the evolutionary process of conjoined genes when comparing different species.
Neuronal regulation of pre-mRNA splicing by polypyrimidine tract binding proteins, PTBP1 and PTBP2.	Alternative splicing patterns are regulated by RNA binding proteins that assemble onto each pre-mRNA to form a complex RNP structure. The polypyrimidine tract binding protein, PTB, has served as an informative model for understanding how RNA binding proteins affect spliceosome assembly and how changes in the expression of these proteins can control complex programs of splicing in tissues. In this review, we describe the mechanisms of splicing regulation by PTB and its function, along with its paralog PTBP2, in neuronal development.
Aberrant expression of splicing factors in newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia.	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the most common type of blood cancer in adults. Emerging evidence is establishing a connection between AML and aberrant alternative splicing of pre-mRNA, which may result from aberrant expression of splicing factors, the mediators of splicing reactions.
Expression of SMARCB1 (INI1) mutations in familial schwannomatosis.	Genetic changes in the SMARCB1 tumor suppressor gene have recently been reported in tumors and blood from families with schwannomatosis. Exon scanning of all nine SMARCB1 exons in genomic DNA from our cohort of families meeting the criteria for 'definite' or 'presumptive' schwannomatosis previously revealed constitutional alterations in 13 of 19 families (68%). Screening of four new familial schwannomatosis probands identified one additional constitutional alteration. We confirmed the presence of mRNA transcripts for two missense alterations, four mutations of conserved splice motifs and two additional mutations, in less conserved sequences, which also affect splicing. Furthermore, we found that transcripts for a rare 3'-untranslated region (c.*82C > T) alteration shared by four unrelated families did not produce splice variants but did show unequal allelic expression, suggesting that the alteration is either causative itself or linked to an unidentified causative mutation. Overexpression studies in cells lacking SMARCB1 suggest that mutant SMARCB1 proteins, like wild-type SMARCB1 protein, retain the ability to suppress cyclin D1 activity. These data, together with the expression of SMARCB1 protein in a proportion of cells from schwannomatosis-related schwannomas, suggest that these tumors develop through a mechanism that is distinct from that of rhabdoid tumors in which SMARCB1 protein is completely absent in tumor cells.
Isolated growth hormone deficiency type 2: from gene to therapy.	Isolated growth hormone deficiency type-2 (IGHD-2), the autosomal-dominant form of GH deficiency, is mainly caused by specific splicing mutations in the human growth hormone (hGH) gene (GH-1). These mutations, occurring in and around exon 3, cause complete exon 3 skipping and produce a dominant-negative 17.5 kD GH isoform that reduces the accumulation and secretion of wild type-GH (wt-GH). At present, patients suffering from IGHD-2 are treated with daily injections of recombinant human GH (rhGH) in order to reach normal height. However, this type of replacement therapy, although effective in terms of growth, does not prevent toxic effects of the 17.5-kD mutant on the pituitary gland, which can eventually lead to other hormonal deficiencies. Considering a well-known correlation between the clinical severity observed in IGHD-2 patients and the increased expression of the 17.5-kD isoform, therapies that specifically target this isoform may be useful in patients with GH-1 splicing defects. This chapter focuses on molecular strategies that could represent future directions for IGHD-2 treatment.
The C. elegans rab family: identification, classification and toolkit construction.	Rab monomeric GTPases regulate specific aspects of vesicle transport in eukaryotes including coat recruitment, uncoating, fission, motility, target selection and fusion. Moreover, individual Rab proteins function at specific sites within the cell, for example the ER, golgi and early endosome. Importantly, the localization and function of individual Rab subfamily members are often conserved underscoring the significant contributions that model organisms such as Caenorhabditis elegans can make towards a better understanding of human disease caused by Rab and vesicle trafficking malfunction. With this in mind, a bioinformatics approach was first taken to identify and classify the complete C. elegans Rab family placing individual Rabs into specific subfamilies based on molecular phylogenetics. For genes that were difficult to classify by sequence similarity alone, we did a comparative analysis of intron position among specific subfamilies from yeast to humans. This two-pronged approach allowed the classification of 30 out of 31 C. elegans Rab proteins identified here including Rab31/Rab50, a likely member of the last eukaryotic common ancestor (LECA). Second, a molecular toolset was created to facilitate research on biological processes that involve Rab proteins. Specifically, we used Gateway-compatible C. elegans ORFeome clones as starting material to create 44 full-length, sequence-verified, dominant-negative (DN) and constitutive active (CA) rab open reading frames (ORFs). Development of this toolset provided independent research projects for students enrolled in a research-based molecular techniques course at California State University, East Bay (CSUEB).
Epigenetics and bacterial infections.	Epigenetic mechanisms regulate expression of the genome to generate various cell types during development or orchestrate cellular responses to external stimuli. Recent studies highlight that bacteria can affect the chromatin structure and transcriptional program of host cells by influencing diverse epigenetic factors (i.e., histone modifications, DNA methylation, chromatin-associated complexes, noncoding RNAs, and RNA splicing factors). In this article, we first review the molecular bases of the epigenetic language and then describe the current state of research regarding how bacteria can alter epigenetic marks and machineries. Bacterial-induced epigenetic deregulations may affect host cell function either to promote host defense or to allow pathogen persistence. Thus, pathogenic bacteria can be considered as potential epimutagens able to reshape the epigenome. Their effects might generate specific, long-lasting imprints on host cells, leading to a memory of infection that influences immunity and might be at the origin of unexplained diseases.
Sequencing of mRNA identifies re-expression of fetal splice variants in cardiac hypertrophy.	Cardiac hypertrophy has been well-characterized at the level of transcription. During cardiac hypertrophy, genes normally expressed primarily during fetal heart development are re-expressed, and this fetal gene program is believed to be a critical component of the hypertrophic process. Recently, alternative splicing of mRNA transcripts has been shown to be temporally regulated during heart development, leading us to consider whether fetal patterns of splicing also reappear during hypertrophy. We hypothesized that patterns of alternative splicing occurring during heart development are recapitulated during cardiac hypertrophy. Here we present a study of isoform expression during pressure-overload cardiac hypertrophy induced by 10 days of transverse aortic constriction (TAC) in rats and in developing fetal rat hearts compared to sham-operated adult rat hearts, using high-throughput sequencing of poly(A) tail mRNA. We find a striking degree of overlap between the isoforms expressed differentially in fetal and pressure-overloaded hearts compared to control: forty-four percent of the isoforms with significantly altered expression in TAC hearts are also expressed at significantly different levels in fetal hearts compared to control (P<0.001). The isoforms that are shared between hypertrophy and fetal heart development are significantly enriched for genes involved in cytoskeletal organization, RNA processing, developmental processes, and metabolic enzymes. Our data strongly support the concept that mRNA splicing patterns normally associated with heart development recur as part of the hypertrophic response to pressure overload. These findings suggest that cardiac hypertrophy shares post-transcriptional as well as transcriptional regulatory mechanisms with fetal heart development.
Spliceosome twin introns in fungal nuclear transcripts.	The spliceosome is an RNA/protein complex, responsible for intron excision from eukaryotic nuclear transcripts. In bacteria, mitochondria and plastids, intron excision does not involve the spliceosome, but occurs through mechanisms dependent on intron RNA secondary and tertiary structure. For group II/III chloroplast introns, "twintrons" (introns within introns) have been described. The excision of the external intron, and thus proper RNA maturation, necessitates prior removal of the internal intron, which interrupts crucial sequences of the former. We have here predicted analogous instances of spliceosomal twintrons ("stwintrons") in filamentous fungi. In two specific cases, where the internal intron interrupts the donor of the external intron after the first or after the second nucleotide, respectively, we show that intermediates with the sequence predicted by the "stwintron" hypothesis, are produced in the splicing process. This implies that two successive rounds of RNA scanning by the spliceosome are necessary to produce the mature mRNA. The phylogenetic distributions of the stwintrons we have identified suggest that they derive from "late" events, subsequent to the appearance of the host intron. They may well not be limited to fungal nuclear transcripts, and their generation and eventual disappearance in the evolutionary process are relevant to hypotheses of intron origin and alternative splicing. 
MOS2 has redundant function with its homolog MOS2H and is required for proper splicing of SNC1.	Plant immunity is essential for plant survival and resistance (R) proteins serve essential roles in pathogen detection and defense signal initiation. A gain-of-function mutation in SNC1, a TIR-type R gene, results in a characteristic autoimmune phenotype in Arabidopsis. From a forward genetic suppressor screen using snc1, MOS2 (MODIFIER of snc1), which encodes an RNA-binding protein, was identified. When MOS2 function is lost, the autoimmunity caused by snc1 is abolished and basal resistance against virulent pathogens is attenuated. Recently, it was shown that mos2 mutants also have defects in miRNA processing. However, it is not known how the role of MOS2 in miRNA production is related to the suppression of snc1-mediated autoimmunity. Here, we show that MOS2 contributes to proper splicing of SNC1 transcript, agreeing with its potential association with the MOS4-associated complex (MAC). In addition, although mutant plants carrying a mutation in the MOS2 homolog MOS2H are wild-type like, the double mutant mos2 mos2h is lethal. These data suggest that MOS2 and MOS2H have unequally redundant functions. Overall, MOS2 and MOS2H probably have diverse functions in both alternative splicing and miRNA processing.
Development of a novel treatment for leukemia directed at tumor-associated mRNA splicing.	This report describes a novel approach to cancer therapy that targets genes that are preferentially alternatively spliced and expressed in leukemia. We developed CD44v6 and CD44v8 splicing constructs fused with GFP or a humanized fragment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A (hPE24). Transfection of K562 leukemia cells with the GFP-linked splicing constructs led to subsequent production of detectable levels of GFP. Transfection of K562 cells with the hPE24-linked splicing constructs led to significant reduction of cell viability and an increase in the induction of apoptosis. Normal human PBMCs were unaffected by following transfection with these constructs. 
RRM1 domain of the splicing oncoprotein SRSF1 is required for MEK1-MAPK-ERK activation and cellular transformation.	Alternative splicing regulators have emerged as new players in cancer development, modulating the activities of many tumor suppressors and oncogenes and regulating the signaling pathways. However, little is known about the mechanisms by which these oncogenic splicing factors lead to cellular transformation. We have shown previously that the splicing factor serine and arginine splicing factor 1 (SRSF1; SF2/ASF) is a proto-oncogene, which is amplified in breast cancer and transforms immortal cells when overexpressed. In this study, we performed a structure-function analysis of SRSF1 and found that the RNA recognition motif 1 (RRM1) domain is required for its oncogenic activity. Deletion of RRM1 eliminated the splicing activity of SRSF1 on some of its endogenous targets. Moreover, we found that SRSF1 elevates the expression of B-Raf and activates the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway and that RRM1 is required for this activation as well. B-Raf-MEK-ERK activation by SRSF1 contributes to transformation as pharmacological inhibition of MEK1 inhibits SRSF1-mediated transformation. In conclusion, RRM1 of SRSF1 is both required (and when tethered to the RS domain) also sufficient to activate the Raf-MEK-ERK pathway and to promote cellular transformation. 
Tertiary structural elements determine the extent and specificity of messenger RNA editing.	The specificity and extent of RNA editing by ADAR enzymes is determined largely by local primary sequence and secondary structural imperfections in duplex RNA. Here we surgically alter conserved cis elements associated with a cluster of ADAR modification sites within the endogenous Drosophila paralytic transcript. In addition to the local requirement for a central imperfect RNA duplex containing the modified adenosines, we demonstrate that a secondary RNA duplex containing splicing signals strongly modulates RNA editing. A subtle non-coding mutation, extending base pairing of this accessory helix, confers significant phenotypic consequences via effects on splicing. Through mutation/counter-mutation, we also uncover and functionally replace a highly conserved intronic long-range tertiary pseudoknot that is absolutely required for deamination of one particular adenosine in the central duplex. Our results demonstrate that complex RNA tertiary structures, which may be difficult to predict computationally, form in vivo and can regulate RNA-editing events. 
Assessment of mRNA splice variants by qRT-PCR.	Alternative splicing is an essential process for the generation of protein diversity. The physiological role, cellular localization, and abundance of splice variant products compared to the wild-type protein may be completely different. This is illustrated by the five splice variants of the antiapoptotic protein survivin that are more abundant in cancerous cells compared with normal tissues. Interestingly, some survivin splice variants have been associated with drug resistance. Herein, we describe a SYBR green I-based real-time PCR method to assess the messenger RNA levels of the human survivin splice variants in taxane-sensitive versus taxane-resistant ovarian cancer cells and in human ovarian cancer samples. Furthermore, in this chapter, we describe the quantification of survivin splice variants by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) after in vitro and in vivo small interference RNA (siRNA)-mediated silencing of survivin splice variants. 
Genome-wide mutational signatures of aristolochic acid and its application as a screening tool.	Aristolochic acid (AA), a natural product of Aristolochia plants found in herbal remedies and health supplements, is a group 1 carcinogen that can cause nephrotoxicity and upper urinary tract urothelial cell carcinoma (UTUC). Whole-genome and exome analysis of nine AA-associated UTUCs revealed a strikingly high somatic mutation rate (150 mutations/Mb), exceeding smoking-associated lung cancer (8 mutations/Mb) and ultraviolet radiation-associated melanoma (111 mutations/Mb). The AA-UTUC mutational signature was characterized by A:T to T:A transversions at the sequence motif A[C|T]AGG, located primarily on nontranscribed strands. AA-induced mutations were also significantly enriched at splice sites, suggesting a role for splice-site mutations in UTUC pathogenesis. RNA sequencing of AA-UTUC confirmed a general up-regulation of nonsense-mediated decay machinery components and aberrant splicing events associated with splice-site mutations. We observed a high frequency of somatic mutations in chromatin modifiers, particularly KDM6A, in AA-UTUC, demonstrated the sufficiency of AA to induce renal dysplasia in mice, and reproduced the AA mutational signature in experimentally treated human renal tubular cells. Finally, exploring other malignancies that were not known to be associated with AA, we screened 93 hepatocellular carcinoma genomes/exomes and identified AA-like mutational signatures in 11. Our study highlights an unusual genome-wide AA mutational signature and the potential use of mutation signatures as "molecular fingerprints" for interrogating high-throughput cancer genome data to infer previous carcinogen exposures. 
GobyWeb: simplified management and analysis of gene expression and DNA methylation sequencing data.	We present GobyWeb, a web-based system that facilitates the management and analysis of high-throughput sequencing (HTS) projects. The software provides integrated support for a broad set of HTS analyses and offers a simple plugin extension mechanism. Analyses currently supported include quantification of gene expression for messenger and small RNA sequencing, estimation of DNA methylation (i.e., reduced bisulfite sequencing and whole genome methyl-seq), or the detection of pathogens in sequenced data. In contrast to previous analysis pipelines developed for analysis of HTS data, GobyWeb requires significantly less storage space, runs analyses efficiently on a parallel grid, scales gracefully to process tens or hundreds of multi-gigabyte samples, yet can be used effectively by researchers who are comfortable using a web browser. We conducted performance evaluations of the software and found it to either outperform or have similar performance to analysis programs developed for specialized analyses of HTS data. We found that most biologists who took a one-hour GobyWeb training session were readily able to analyze RNA-Seq data with state of the art analysis tools. GobyWeb can be obtained at http://gobyweb.campagnelab.org and is freely available for non-commercial use. GobyWeb plugins are distributed in source code and licensed under the open source LGPL3 license to facilitate code inspection, reuse and independent extensions http://github.com/CampagneLaboratory/gobyweb2-plugins. 
Analysis of the early-flowering mechanisms and generation of T-DNA tagging lines in Kitaake, a model rice cultivar.	As an extremely early flowering cultivar, rice cultivar Kitaake is a suitable model system for molecular studies. Expression analyses revealed that transcript levels of the flowering repressor Ghd7 were decreased while those of its downstream genes, Ehd1, Hd3a, and RFT1, were increased. Sequencing the known flowering-regulator genes revealed mutations in Ghd7 and OsPRR37 that cause early translation termination and amino acid substitutions, respectively. Genetic analysis of F2 progeny from a cross between cv. Kitaake and cv. Dongjin indicated that those mutations additively contribute to the early-flowering phenotype in cv. Kitaake. Because the short life cycle facilitates genetics research, this study generated 10 000 T-DNA tagging lines and deduced 6758 flanking sequence tags (FSTs), in which 3122 were genic and 3636 were intergenic. Among the genic lines, 367 (11.8%) were inserted into new genes that were not previously tagged. Because the lines were generated by T-DNA that contained the promoterless GUS reporter gene, which had an intron with triple splicing donors/acceptors in the right border region, a high efficiency of GUS expression was shown in various organs. Sequencing of the GUS-positive lines demonstrated that the third splicing donor and the first splicing acceptor of the vector were extensively used. The FST data have now been released into the public domain for seed distribution and facilitation of rice research. 
Identification and expression of a novel MDM4 splice variant in human glioma.	The product of the MDMX (or MDM4) gene is structurally related to the MDM2 oncoprotein and is also capable of interacting with the tumor suppressor protein p53. The MDM4 gene is overexpressed in several human tumors, while its product can be detected as various isoforms. This study was aimed to find the presence of aberrant mRNA transcripts of MDM4 in human glioma and their association with the clinicopathological characteristics of glioma patients. 42 glioma tissues were examined for MDM4 mRNA splicing variants by RT-PCR. A total of four distinct transcript sizes (full length-MDM4 851 bp, MDM4-S 783 bp, MDM4-A 701 bp, MDM4-B 540 bp) were detected. In the present study, we first report the novel alternative splicing form of MDM4, MDM4-B (GenBank accession no.KC479043.1). Expression of MDM4-B was present in various stages of human gliomas, but no significant correlation between presence of MDM4-B and malignancy of glioma was observed. The expression level of MDM4-B mRNA detected by real-time PCR was not only significantly associated with tumor stages, but also with p53 mutation and Ki-67 status which are important clinical molecular markers of glioma. Our data indicate that the novel variant MDM4-B may play a role in glioma tumorigenesis or cancer progression.
The Arabidopsis thaliana MHX gene includes an intronic element that boosts translation when localized in a 5' UTR intron.	The mechanisms that underlie the ability of some introns to increase gene expression, a phenomenon called intron-mediated enhancement (IME), are not fully understood. It is also not known why introns localized in the 5'-untranslated region (5' UTR) are considerably longer than downstream eukaryotic introns. It was hypothesized that this extra length results from the presence of some functional intronic elements. However, deletion analyses studies carried out thus far were unable to identify specific intronic regions necessary for IME. Using deletion analysis and a gain-of-function approach, an internal element that considerably increases translational efficiency, without affecting splicing, was identified in the 5' UTR intron of the Arabidopsis thaliana MHX gene. Moreover, the ability of this element to enhance translation was diminished by a minor downstream shift in the position of introns containing it from the 5' UTR into the coding sequence. These data suggest that some of the extra length of 5' UTR introns results from the presence of elements that enhance translation, and, moreover, from the ability of 5' UTR introns to provide preferable platforms for such elements over downstream introns. The impact of the identified intronic element on translational efficiency was augmented upon removal of neighbouring intronic elements. Interference between different intronic elements had not been reported thus far. This interference may support the bioinformatics-based idea that some of the extra sequence of 5' UTR introns is also necessary for separating different functional intronic elements. 
The evolution and functional significance of nested gene structures in Drosophila melanogaster.	Nearly 10% of the genes in the genome of Drosophila melanogaster are in nested structures, in which one gene is completely nested within the intron of another gene (nested and including gene, respectively). Even though the coding sequences and untranslated regions of these nested/including gene pairs do not overlap, their intimate structures and the possibility of shared regulatory sequences raise questions about the evolutionary forces governing the origination and subsequent functional and evolutionary impacts of these structures. In this study, we show that nested genes experience weaker evolutionary constraint, have faster rates of protein evolution, and are expressed in fewer tissues than other genes, while including genes show the opposite patterns. Surprisingly, despite completely overlapping with each other, nested and including genes are less likely to display correlated gene expression and biological function than the nearby yet nonoverlapping genes. Interestingly, significantly fewer nested genes are transcribed from the same strand as the including gene. We found that same-strand nested genes are more likely to be single-exon genes. In addition, same-strand including genes are less likely to have known lethal or sterile phenotypes than opposite-strand including genes only when the corresponding nested genes have introns. These results support our hypothesis that selection against potential erroneous mRNA splicing when nested and including genes are on the same strand plays an important role in the evolution of nested gene structures. 
A novel link between Slc22a18 and fat accumulation revealed by a mutation in the spontaneously hypertensive rat.	Two different strains of the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) exist, either with or without a Cd36 mutation. In the F2 population derived from a cross between these two SHR strains, the mutant Cd36 allele was tightly linked to differences in metabolic phenotypes but not to those in fat pad weight. This suggested the existence of another crucial mutation related to adiposity. Linkage analysis of this F2 population showed a significant linkage between the rat chromosome 1 region (D1Rat240-D1Wox28) and fat pad weight. By integrating both positional and expression information, we identified a donor splice site mutation in the gene for solute carrier family 22 member 18 (Slc22a18) in SHR with reduced fat pad weight. This mutation was located at the linkage peak with a maximum logarithm of odds score of 7.7 and caused skipping of the whole exon 9 that results in a complete loss of a whole membrane-spanning region of the rat Slc22a18 protein. Slc22a18 mRNA was abundantly expressed in isolated adipocytes and in a differentiation-dependent manner in 3T3-L1 cells. Knockdown of the Slc22a18 mRNA via infection of adenoviral vectors markedly inhibited both triglyceride accumulation and adipocyte differentiation in 3T3-L1 cells. By contrast, overexpression of the Slc22a18 mRNA had the opposite effects. These results reveal a novel link between Slc22a18 and fat accumulation and suggest that this gene could be a new therapeutic target in obesity. 
The transcription-splicing protein NonO/p54nrb and three NonO-interacting proteins bind to distal enhancer region and augment rhodopsin expression.	Phototransduction machinery in vertebrate photoreceptors is contained within the membrane discs of outer segments. Daily renewal of 10% of photoreceptor outer segments requires stringent control of gene expression. Rhodopsin constitutes over 90% of the protein in rod discs, and its altered expression or transport is associated with photoreceptor dysfunction and/or death. Two cis-regulatory sequences have been identified upstream of the rhodopsin transcription start site. While the proximal promoter binds to specific transcription factors, including NRL and CRX, the rhodopsin enhancer region (RER) reportedly contributes to precise and high-level expression of rhodopsin in vivo. Here, we report the identification of RER-bound proteins by mass spectrometry. We validate the binding of NonO (p54(nrb)), a protein implicated in coupling transcription to splicing, and three NonO-interacting proteins-hnRNP M, Ywhaz and Ppp1ca. NonO and its interactors can activate rhodopsin promoter in HEK293 cells and function synergistically with NRL and CRX. DNA-binding domain of NonO is critical for rhodopsin promoter activation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by deep sequencing (ChIP-seq) analysis demonstrates high occupancy of NonO at rhodopsin and a subset of phototransduction genes. Furthermore, shRNA knockdown of NonO in mouse retina leads to loss of rhodopsin expression and rod cell death, which can be partially rescued by a C-terminal NonO construct. RNA-seq analysis of the NonO shRNA-treated retina revealed splicing defects and altered expression of genes, specifically those associated with phototransduction. Our studies identify an important contribution of NonO and its interacting modulator proteins in enhancing rod-specific gene expression and controlling rod homeostasis. 
Validation of a real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction method for the quantification of 3 survivin transcripts and evaluation in breast cancer tissues.	Survivin is a novel antiapoptotic gene, which is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) family. Recently, 3 splice variants of this gene were cloned and characterized. This study aimed to validate a sensitive and specific method for the detection of survivin variants in breast cancer.
Sex determination mechanisms in the Calliphoridae (blow flies).	The Calliphoridae or blow flies are a family of insects that occupy diverse habitats and perform important ecological roles, particularly the decomposition of animal remains. Some Calliphoridae species are also important in the forensic sciences, in agriculture (e.g. as livestock pests) and in medicine (e.g. maggot therapy). Calliphoridae provide striking examples in support of the hypothesis that sex determination regulatory gene hierarchies evolve in the reverse order, with the gene at the top being the most recently added. Unlike the model fly Drosophila melanogaster, where sex is determined by the number of X chromosomes, in the Australian sheep blow fly (Lucilia cuprina) sex is determined by a Y-linked male-determining gene (M). A different regulatory system appears to operate in the hairy maggot blow fly (Chrysomya rufifacies) where the maternal genotype determines sex. It is hypothesized that females heterozygous for a dominant female-determining factor (F/f) produce only female offspring and homozygous f/f females produce only sons. The bottom of the regulatory hierarchy appears to be the same in D. melanogaster and L. cuprina, with sex-specific splicing of doublesex transcripts being controlled by the female-specific Transformer (TRA) protein. We discuss a model that has been proposed for how tra transcripts are sex-specifically spliced in calliphorids, which is very different from D. melanogaster.
Lepidopteran sex determination: a cascade of surprises.	Sex determination is a developmental pathway that fixes the sexual fate (male or female) of an individual at early stages of embryonic development. This pathway is ideally suited for evolutionary studies given the astoundingly diverse mechanisms found in the animal kingdom. In particular, insects use multiple different cues to specify the sexual fate of an individual. In this review, we focus on genes and genetic interactions involved in the sex determination of insect species belonging to the order Lepidoptera. Unique features of the lepidopteran sex determination system are discussed.
Normal and aberrant splicing of LMNA.	The LMNA gene gives rise to at least three isoforms (lamin A, C, lamin A10) as a result of normal alternative splicing, regulated by cis- and trans-acting regulatory factors, as well as the 5' and 3' untranslated regions of the gene. The two main isoforms, lamin A and C, are constitutive components of the fibrous nuclear lamina and have diverse physiological roles, ranging from mechanical nuclear membrane maintenance to gene regulation. The clinical spectrum of diseases (called 'laminopathies') caused by LMNA mutations is broad, including at least eight well-characterised phenotypes, some of which are confined to the skeletal muscles or skin, while others are multisystemic. This review discusses the different alternatively spliced isoforms of LMNA and the regulation of LMNA splicing, as well as the subgroup of mutations that affect splicing of LMNA pre-mRNA, and also seeks to bridge the mis-splicing of LMNA at transcript level and the resulting clinical phenotypes. Finally, we discuss the manipulation of LMNA splicing by splice-switching antisense oligonucleotides and its therapeutic potential for the treatment of some laminopathies. 
Combined analysis of exon splicing and genome wide polymorphism data predict schizophrenia risk loci.	Schizophrenia has a strong genetic basis, and genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have shown that effect sizes for individual genetic variants which increase disease risk are small, making detection and validation of true disease-associated risk variants extremely challenging. Specifically, we first identify genes with exons showing differential expression between cases and controls, indicating a splicing mechanism that may contribute to variation in disease risk and focus on those showing consistent differential expression between blood and brain tissue. We then perform a genome-wide screen for SNPs associated with both normalised exon intensity of these genes (so called splicing QTLs) as well as association with schizophrenia. We identified a number of significantly associated loci with a biologically plausible role in schizophrenia, including MCPH1, DLG3, ZC3H13, and BICD2, and additional loci that influence splicing of these genes, including YWHAH. Our approach of integrating genome-wide exon intensity with genome-wide polymorphism data has identified a number of plausible SZ associated loci.
Distinctive kinetics and substrate specificities of plant and fungal tRNA ligases.	Plant and fungal tRNA ligases are trifunctional enzymes that repair RNA breaks with 2',3'-cyclic-PO4 and 5'-OH ends. They are composed of cyclic phosphodiesterase (CPDase) and polynucleotide kinase domains that heal the broken ends to generate the 3'-OH, 2'-PO4, and 5'-PO4 required for sealing by a ligase domain. Here, we use short HORNA>p substrates to determine, in a one-pot assay format under single-turnover conditions, the order and rates of the CPDase, kinase and ligase steps. The observed reaction sequence for the plant tRNA ligase AtRNL, independent of RNA length, is that the CPDase engages first, converting HORNA>p to HORNA2'p, which is then phosphorylated to pRNA2'p by the kinase. Whereas the rates of the AtRNL CPDase and kinase reactions are insensitive to RNA length, the rate of the ligase reaction is slowed by a factor of 16 in the transition from 10-mer RNA to 8-mer and further by eightfold in the transition from 8-mer RNA to 6-mer. We report that a single ribonucleoside-2',3'-cyclic-PO4 moiety enables AtRNL to efficiently splice an otherwise all-DNA strand. Our characterization of a fungal tRNA ligase (KlaTrl1) highlights important functional distinctions vis  vis the plant homolog. We find that (1) the KlaTrl1 kinase is 300-fold faster than the AtRNL kinase; and (2) the KlaTrl1 kinase is highly specific for GTP or dGTP as the phosphate donor. Our findings recommend tRNA ligase as a tool to map ribonucleotides embedded in DNA and as a target for antifungal drug discovery. 
Principles of ion recognition in RNA: insights from the group II intron structures.	Metal ions promote both RNA folding and catalysis, thus being essential in stabilizing the structure and determining the function of large RNA molecules, including group II introns. The latter are self-splicing metalloribozymes, containing a heteronuclear four-metal-ion center within the active site. In addition to these catalytic ions, group II introns bind many other structural ions, including delocalized ions that bind the RNA diffusively and well-ordered ions that bind the RNA tightly with high occupancy. The latter ions, which can be studied by biophysical methods, have not yet been analyzed systematically. Here, we compare crystal structures of the group IIC intron from Oceanobacillus iheyensis and classify numerous site-bound ions, which are primarily localized in the intron core and near long-range tertiary contacts. Certain ion-binding sites resemble motifs observed in known RNA structures, while others are idiosyncratic to the group II intron. Particularly interesting are (1) ions proximal to the active site, which may participate in splicing together with the catalytic four-metal-ion center, (2) organic ions that bind regions predicted to interact with intron-encoded proteins, and (3) unusual monovalent ions bound to GU wobble pairs, GA mismatches, the S-turn, the tetraloop-receptor, and the T-loop. Our analysis extends the general principles by which ions participate in RNA structural organization and it will aid in the determination and interpretation of future RNA structures. 
Polypyrimidine tract binding protein inhibits IgM pre-mRNA splicing by diverting U2 snRNA base-pairing away from the branch point.	The mouse immunoglobulin (IgM) pre-mRNA contains a splicing inhibitor that bears multiple binding sites for the splicing repressor polypyrimidine tract binding protein (PTB). Here we show that the inhibitor directs assembly of an ATP-dependent complex that contains PTB and U1 and U2 small nuclear RNAs (snRNAs). Unexpectedly, although U2 snRNA is present in the inhibitor complex, it is not base-paired to the branch point. We present evidence that inhibitor-bound PTB contacts U2 snRNA to promote base-pairing to an adjacent branch point-like sequence within the inhibitor, thereby preventing the U2 snRNA-branch point interaction and resulting in splicing repression. Our studies reveal a novel mechanism by which PTB represses splicing. 
The global landscape of intron retentions in lung adenocarcinoma.	The transcriptome complexity in an organism can be achieved by alternative splicing of precursor messenger RNAs. It has been revealed that alternations in mRNA splicing play an important role in a number of diseases including human cancers.
Rapid identification of mRNA processing defects with a novel single-cell yeast reporter.	It has become increasingly evident that gene expression processes in eukaryotes involve communication and coordination between many complex, independent macromolecular machines. To query these processes and to explore the potential relationships between them in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we designed a versatile reporter using multicolor high-throughput flow cytometry. Due to its design, this single reporter exhibits a distinctive signature for many defects in gene expression including transcription, histone modification, pre-mRNA splicing, mRNA export, nonsense-mediated decay, and mRNA degradation. Analysis of the reporter in 4967 nonessential yeast genes revealed striking phenotypic overlaps between chromatin remodeling, histone modification, and pre-mRNA splicing. Additionally, we developed a copper-inducible reporter, with which we demonstrate that 5-fluorouracil mimics the mRNA decay phenotype of cells lacking the 3'-5' exonuclease Rrp6p. Our reporter is capable of performing high-throughput, rapid, and large-scale screens to identify and characterize genetic and chemical perturbations of the major eukaryotic gene expression processes.
Rare mutations of CACNB2 found in autism spectrum disease-affected families alter calcium channel function.	Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) are complex neurodevelopmental diseases clinically defined by dysfunction of social interaction. Dysregulation of cellular calcium homeostasis might be involved in ASD pathogenesis, and genes coding for the L-type calcium channel subunits CaV1.2 (CACNA1C) and CaV2 (CACNB2) were recently identified as risk loci for psychiatric diseases. Here, we present three rare missense mutations of CACNB2 (G167S, S197F, and F240L) found in ASD-affected families, two of them described here for the first time (G167S and F240L). All these mutations affect highly conserved regions while being absent in a sample of ethnically matched controls. We suggest the mutations to be of physiological relevance since they modulate whole-cell Ba2+ currents through calcium channels when expressed in a recombinant system (HEK-293 cells). Two mutations displayed significantly decelerated time-dependent inactivation as well as increased sensitivity of voltage-dependent inactivation. In contrast, the third mutation (F240L) showed significantly accelerated time-dependent inactivation. By altering the kinetic parameters, the mutations are reminiscent of the CACNA1C mutation causing Timothy Syndrome, a Mendelian disease presenting with ASD. In conclusion, the results of our first-time biophysical characterization of these three rare CACNB2 missense mutations identified in ASD patients support the hypothesis that calcium channel dysfunction may contribute to autism. 
Localization of sequences required for size-specific splicing of a small Drosophila intron in vitro.	Many introns in Drosophila and other invertebrates are less than 80 nucleotides in length, too small to be recognized by the vertebrate splicing machinery. Comparison of nuclear splicing extracts from human HeLa and Drosophila Kc cells has revealed species-specificity, consistent with the observed size differences. Here we present additional results with the 68 nucleotide fifth intron of the Drosophila myosin heavy chain gene. As observed with the 74 nucleotide second intron of the Drosophila white gene, the wild-type myosin intron is accurately spliced in a homologous extract, and increasing the size by 16 nucleotides both eliminates splicing in the Drosophila extract and allows accurate splicing in the human extract. In contrast to previous results, however, an upstream cryptic 5' splice site is activated when the wild-type myosin intron is tested in a human HeLa cell nuclear extract, resulting in the removal of a 98 nucleotide intron. The size dependence of splicing in Drosophila extracts is also intron-specific; we noted that a naturally larger (150 nucleotide) intron from the ftz gene is efficiently spliced in Kc cell extracts that do not splice enlarged introns (of 84, 90, 150 or 350 nucleotides) derived from the 74 nucleotide white intron. Here, we have exploited that observation, using a series of hybrid introns to show that a region of 46 nucleotides at the 3' end of the white intron is sufficient to confer the species-specific size effect. At least two sequence elements within this region, yet distinct from previously described branchpoint and pyrimidine tract signals, are required for efficient splicing of small hybrid introns in vitro.
Characterization of the let-653 gene in Caenorhabditis elegans.	A mutation in the let-653 gene of Caenorhabditis elegans results in larval death. The lethal arrest is concurrent with the appearance of a vacuole anterior to the lower pharyngeal bulb. The position of the vacuole is consistent with a dysfunction of the secretory/excretory apparatus. Germline transformation rescue experiments were able to position the let-653 gene to two overlapping cosmid subclones. Sequence data generated from both cDNA and genomic DNA subclones indicated that let-653 encodes a mucin-like protein. Our characterization suggests that a mucin-like protein is essential for effective functioning of the secretory/excretory apparatus within C. elegans.
Aberrant pre-mRNA maturation is caused by LINE insertions into introns of the white gene of Drosophila melanogaster.	Insertional mutagenesis screens have provided thousands of mutant alleles for analysing genes of varied functions in Drosophila melanogaster. We here document mechanisms of insertional mutagenesis by a LINE element, the I factor, by determining the molecular structure of RNAs produced from two alleles of the white gene of D.melanogaster, wIR1 and wIR6. These alleles result from insertion of the I factor into introns of the gene. We show that sequences present within the element direct aberrant splicing and termination events. When the I factor is inserted within the white first intron it may lead to the use of a cryptic 3' splice site which does not contain the dinucleotide AG. This splicing gives rise to a chimeric messenger RNA whose synthesis is controlled differently in tissues where the mutated gene is expressed. When the I factor is inserted within the white last intron it induces synthesis of truncated mRNAs. These results provide, for the first time, mechanisms for I factor insertional mutagenesis. They are discussed in the more general context of RNA processing in Drosophila and the evolution of eukaryotic gene introns.
Biologic activity of human papillomavirus type 16 E6/E7 cDNA clones isolated from SiHa cervical carcinoma cell line.	Three species of E6/E7 cDNAs of human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV16) for the full-length E6/E7 and spliced E6*I/E7 and E6*II/E7 mRNAs were synthesized by reverse transcriptase-(RT-)PCR from RNA of the cervical carcinoma cell line SiHa. Two cDNA mutants carrying point mutations in either a splice donor site or acceptor site within the E6 open reading frame were also constructed. These HPV16 E6/E7 cDNAs were cloned under the SV40 enhancer/promoter and the MMTV LTR to examine the activities of ras-collaborative transformation and induction of cellular DNA synthesis, both of which depend on the E7 gene product. The E6*II/E7 cDNA and two mutated cDNAs deficient in the spliced mRNA transcription showed lower levels of both activities than the full-length E6/E7 and the E6*I/E7 cDNA. The rat cell lines carrying each of the E6/E7 cDNAs contained the E6/E7 mRNA species expected. A small amount of E6*I/E7-sized mRNA was transcribed from a splice-donor site mutant of the E6/E7 cDNA, which turned out to be a transcript derived from a cryptic splice donor site six bases upstream from the conventional site. Among NIH3T3 cells carrying one of the above-mentioned E6/E7 cDNAs, the cells expressing E6*I/E7 mRNA [cells carrying cF(wt) and c*I] produced an amount of E7 protein comparable with those carrying the E7 or E6E7 region. These results suggest that the E6*I/E7 is the mRNA that is important for the efficient expression of E7 product from the HPV16 E6/E7 region.
Changes in the NS gene of neurovirulent strains of influenza affect splicing.	The nonstructural (NS) gene has been identified as an accessory factor in determining neurovirulence for influenza A virus. The nucleotide sequence of the NS gene of the neurovirulent variant A/NWS/33 was determined and compared with its parent, A/WS/33. Alterations in the mRNA structure of the gene were observed that serve to mask the 3' splice site. Changes in this region were shown to correlate with reduced splicing of the NS gene in neurovirulent strains.
A group II intron RNA is a catalytic component of a DNA endonuclease involved in intron mobility.	The mobility (homing) of the yeast mitochondrial DNA group II intron al2 occurs via target DNA-primed reverse transcription at a double-strand break in the recipient DNA. Here, we show that the site-specific DNA endonuclease that makes the double-strand break is a ribonucleoprotein complex containing the al2-encoded reverse transcriptase protein and excised al2 RNA. Remarkably, the al2 RNA catalyzes cleavage of the sense strand of the recipient DNA, while the al2 protein appears to cleave the antisense strand. The RNA-catalyzed sense strand cleavage occurs via a partial reverse splicing reaction in which the protein component stabilizes the active intron structure and appears to confer preference for DNA substrates. Our results demonstrate a biologically relevant ribozyme reaction with a substrate other than RNA.
The multidomain structure of Orc1p reveals similarity to regulators of DNA replication and transcriptional silencing.	The origin recognition complex (ORC) is a six protein assembly that binds S. cerevisiae origins of replication and directs DNA replication throughout the genome and transcriptional silencing at the yeast mating-type loci. Here we report the cloning of the genes encoding the 120 kDa (ORC1), 62 kDa (ORC3), and 56 kDa (ORC4) subunits of ORC and the reconstitution of the complete complex after expression of all six subunits in insect cells. Orc1p is related to Cdc6p and Cdc18p, which regulate DNA replication and mitosis, and to Sir3p, a regulator of transcriptional silencing. The N-terminal region of Orc1p is highly related to Sir3p, and studies of Orc1p/Sir3p chimeric proteins indicate that this domain is dedicated to the transcriptional silencing function of ORC.
Antisense gene expression in yeast.	The use of antisense and ribozyme RNA to modulate gene expression is emerging as an effective genetic technique. A compilation of successful antisense gene suppression experiments reveals the absence of reports on the use of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a host. We examine the field of antisense and ribozyme use in S. cerevisiae and discuss that this result is not due to any lack of attempts and may reflect unique features of S. cerevisiae biology. In an attempt to learn from cellular RNA physiology we review evidence for naturally occurring antisense RNA regulation. Although there are many examples of well characterised overlapping RNA transcripts there is, as yet, no clear evidence suggesting complementary RNA-dependent gene regulation in S. cerevisiae. The application of artificial antisense and ribozyme genes is then discussed with an emphasis on the role of yeast as a model system for the systematic and genetic analysis of antisense and ribozyme RNA function. In addition, potential reasons for the lack of attempts to use antisense or ribozyme genes to create pseudogenetic mutants are considered. We conclude that the application of successful antisense and ribozyme strategies in yeast may have to address features of S. cerevisiae RNA biology and offer experimental approaches that may identify some of these features.
Biochemistry and molecular biology of the human CYP2C subfamily.	The cytochromes P450 (CYP) are a superfamily of hemoproteins which metabolize foreign chemicals as well as a number of endogenous compounds such as steroids. The human CYP2C subfamily appears to principally metabolize a number of clinically used drugs. Four members of this subfamily have been identified in humans: CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C18, and CYP2C19. CYP2C9 is important in the metabolism certain of therapeutically used drugs including the anticoagulant drug warfarin and a number of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. A number of allelic variants of CYP2C9 exist in humans, but the effects of these allelic variants on metabolism in vivo remain to be determined. A well-characterized genetic polymorphism occurs in the 2C subfamily which is associated with the metabolism of the anticonvulsant drug mephenytoin. In population studies, individuals can be segregated into extensive and poor metabolizers of mephenytoin. Poor metabolizers are unable to 4'-hydroxylate the S-enantiomer of mephenytoin. There are marked interracial variations in the frequency of the poor metabolizer phenotype which represents 3-5% of Caucasians, but 18-23% of Oriental populations. The mechanism of this polymorphism has been recently elucidated. The enzyme responsible for S-mephenytoin metabolism has been shown to be CYP2C19, and two defects in the CYP2C19 gene have been described in poor metabolizers. The first defect, CYP2C19m1, consists of the creation of an aberrant splice site in exon 5. This defect accounts for approximately 75-85% of Caucasian and Japanese poor metabolizers. A second defect, CYP2C19m2, has been found only in Oriental populations and accounts for the remaining 25% of poor metabolizers in Japanese populations. The availability of genotyping tests for this polymorphism will enhance the assessment of the role of this pathway in clinical studies.
Chromosomal location and some structural features of human clathrin light-chain genes (CLTA and CLTB).	Two human clathrin light-chain genes have been defined. The gene (CLTA) encoding the LCa light chain maps to the long arm of chromosome 12 at 12q23-q24 and that encoding the LCb light chain (CLTB) maps to the long arm of chromosome 4 at 4q2-q3. Isolation and characterization of partial genomic clones encoding human LCa and LCb reveal the neuron-specific insertions of the LCa and LCb proteins to be encoded by discrete exons, thus proving that clathrin light chains undergo alternate mRNA splicing to generate tissue-specific protein isoforms. The insertion sequence of LCb is encoded by a single exon and that of LCa by two exons. The first of the two neuron-specific LCa exons is homologous to the corresponding LCb exon. An intronic sequence of the LCb gene with similarity to the second neuron-specific exon of the LCa gene has been identified.
Splicing variability in HIV type 1 revealed by quantitative RNA polymerase chain reaction.	A quantitative RNA-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method able to detect the majority of mRNAs produced by human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) was developed and used to study expression of different HIV-1 clones in human cells. Amplified mRNAs were compared to known cDNA standards. This comparison permitted the optimization of PCR conditions and eliminated the generation of artifactual PCR bands. The use of RNA and cDNA standards demonstrated that the RNA amplification is linear within the tested range and suggested that it can be used to quantitate individual mRNAs. The results demonstrate the overall conservation of splicing in different HIV-1 clones. Although, in general, splicing was conserved, extensive qualitative and quantitative variability was observed in different HIV-1 clones. This variability is likely one determinant of the biological characteristics of the different HIV-1 clones, and demonstrates a great plasticity of the HIV-1 genome. The described RNA-PCR methodology was used for the study of HIV-1 expression in unstimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of infected individuals. In general, the same mRNAs were identified in HIV-infected cultured cell lines and in unstimulated PBMCs. Analysis of a variant band found after amplification of PBMC RNA from an HIV-infected individual revealed a new splice site for the generation of Rev/Nef-encoding mRNAs. The availability of a sensitive, rapid, and essentially quantitative method to examine the major HIV-1 mRNAs will facilitate the detailed analysis of HIV-1 expression in human cells.
Study of C4A mRNA in mononuclear blood cells from a patient with SLE and C4A homozygous deficiency without C4A gene deletion.	C4A null alleles (C4AQ0) have an increased frequency in SLE patients. Surprisingly some of them have no detectable gene deletion. In order to characterize the level of the defect in such patients, we used a RT-PCR/nested PCR technique and detected the presence of C4A mRNA in normal amounts. Since maturation abnormalities are almost always accompanied by a decrease in mRNA concentration, this result suggests that the defect may be located at the translational level.
Beta 0-thalassemia trait (IVS-I-1 G-->T) in a Japanese family.	Three subjects in a family with microcytic and hypochromic anemia were studied; red blood cell morphology indicated aniso-poikilocytosis and hypochromasia. Target and tear-drop cells were also noted. In all three cases evaluated, there was an increase in HbA2 levels and a decline in the beta/alpha synthesis ratio. Direct cloning and DNA sequencing identified a point mutation (G-->T) at position 1 of intervening sequence I. The resulting reduction of beta-globin chain synthesis is considered to give rise to beta 0-thalassemia phenotype. This point mutation is to our knowledge, the first case in Japan.
The genes for transcription factor nuclear factor I give rise to corresponding splice variants between vertebrate species.	Nuclear Factor I (NFI) proteins are DNA binding proteins functioning as transcription and replication factors. As part of a study of the diversity of the Nuclear Factor I protein family, we isolated and sequenced seven NFI cDNA clones from a chicken promacrophage library. Five of these clones are derived from the NFI-A gene, the other two from the NFI-C gene. Comparison of the deduced chicken NFI amino acid sequences with mammalian NFI sequences reveals that there are corresponding vertebrate isoforms, indicating a strong conservation of NFI structure during evolution. This finding leads to the prediction that more mammalian isoforms will be discovered corresponding to the chicken NFI variants reported here.
Analyzing expression of the calmodulin and ubiquitin-fusion genes of Trypanosoma cruzi using simultaneous, independent dual gene replacements.	We describe here a strategy for introducing simultaneous, independent gene replacements into the Trypanosoma cruzi chromosome. The goal of this study was to use two linear DNA fragments to simultaneously replace the CalA2 calmodulin and FUS1 ubiquitin-fusion genes with the neomycin resistance (neo(r)) and chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) genes, respectively. One clone (D6), of thirty G418-resistant clones analyzed, carried the desired dual gene replacement. CDNA sequence analysis indicated that the CAT mRNA was accurately trans-spliced using the previously identified FUS1 mini-exon addition site. However, DNA sequence analysis of the intergenic sequence immediately upstream of the neo(r) gene in clone D6 identified a mutation which altered the pattern of trans-splicing of the neo(r) mRNA. Possible effects of this mutation on 3' splice acceptor site selection are discussed.
A weight array method for splicing signal analysis.	A new method of sequence analysis, using a weight array method (WAM), which generalizes the traditional Staden weight matrix method (WMM), is proposed. With the help of a statistical mechanical model, the discriminant function is identified with the energy function describing macromolecular interactions. The method is applied to the study of 5'-splice signals in Schizosaccharomyces pombe pre-mRNA sequences. The results show that there may exist weak pairwise correlations within the signals and that our method can help to better discriminate these signals. Experiments are proposed to test the predictions of the theory.
A new algorithm for predicting splice site sequence based on an improvement of categorical discriminant analysis.	The splicing signals which govern the excision of introns are not yet well explained, since actual splice site sequences are to some extent different from the generally accepted consensus sequences. While a quantification method (categorical discriminant analysis: CDA) has been proposed to analyze splice site signals, sample sequences lying in the overlapping region of sample scores are not discriminated well by CDA, thus limiting the predictive ability of this analytical technique. In this paper, we propose a method to improve the performance of CDA, which is applicable to the analysis of 5'-splice site signals in various mammalian genes. The proposed algorithm has revealed a distinct enhancement in the predicting ability compared to that of traditional CDA and could explain point mutations in the 5'-splice site region of rabbit beta-globin gene fairly well.
Ancient splice junction shadows with relation to blocks in protein structure.	Splice junction shadows (ancient exon-exon junctions) presumably reflect the existence of amino acid primary blocks which were used in the course of evolution for the construction of new proteins. The lengths of such blocks (i.e. regions between splice junctions), as the lengths of corresponding inserted or duplicated ancient exons, should be divisible by three in order to store the preexisting coding frame in the course of evolution. In this paper, we will test the hypothesis of intron-mediated recombination in a model of block molecular evolution (exon shuffling) by revealing corresponding blocks in existing database-contained coding sequences. For this purpose, we use a weight matrix prediction of ancient splice junction shadows in coding regions of the nucleotide sequences in current databases. The usage of splice junction shadows allows us to test the block evolution hypothesis in better detail in comparison with previous methods which were based only on currently existing recent exons. Our result of block length distribution at the nucleotide level shows a clear tendency to be divisible by three. At the protein level, several unexpected favorable block lengths, which are six, nine, 12 and 15 amino acids in length, were observed. Further refinements in our method for revealing splice junction shadows (structural block boundaries) might reveal peptides which probably maintain stable folds in different structures. The latter can in turn be used for protein structure prediction.
Spectrum of spontaneously occurring mutations in the HPRT gene of the Chinese hamster V79 cell mutant V-H4, which is homologous to Fanconi anemia group A.	The mitomycin C (MMC)-hypersensitive Chinese hamster V79 cell mutant V-H4 has a cellular phenotype similar to Fanconi anemia (FA), and has been shown to be homologous to FA group A. To examine consequences of the defect in V-H4 cells on spontaneous mutagenesis, we studied the frequency and nature of spontaneous mutations at the hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) locus in this mutant and the parental V79 cells. The mutation rates expressed as the number of mutations per cell per generation were 8.7 x 10(-7) and 3.7 x 10(-7) for V-H4 and V79 cells respectively. The molecular spectrum of 42 spontaneous hprt mutants of V-H4 cells was determined and compared with the previously described spectrum of spontaneous mutations at the HPRT locus of Chinese hamster V79 cells. The spectra of spontaneous mutations in the hprt gene of both cell lines are predominated by base pair substitutions and splice mutations. Among the base changes, V-H4 shows a larger frequency of transitions (13/42; 31%) than transversions (3/42; 7%), whereas in V79 transversions are observed more often than transitions (P < 0.001; Wilcoxon test). The frequency of splice mutations in V-H4 (17/42; 40%), which affects exon 4 almost exclusively, is not significantly different from V79. The fraction of deletions in V-H4 is low (6/42; 14%), and comparable to the level in V79. This is in contrast with the published molecular spectrum of spontaneous hprt mutants in FA (group D) cells, which consists predominantly of deletions.
Selection of the bovine papillomavirus type 1 nucleotide 3225 3' splice site is regulated through an exonic splicing enhancer and its juxtaposed exonic splicing suppressor.	Alternative splicing is an important mechanism for the regulation of bovine papillomavirus type 1 (BPV-1) gene expression during the virus life cycle. However, one 3' splice site, located at nucleotide (nt) 3225, is used for the processing of most BPV-1 pre-mRNAs in BPV-1-transformed C127 cells and at early to intermediate times in productively infected warts. At late stages of the viral life cycle, an alternative 3' splice site at nt 3605 is used for the processing of the late pre-mRNA. In this study, we used in vitro splicing in HeLa cell nuclear extracts to identify cis elements which regulate BPV-1 3' splice site selection. Two purine-rich exonic splicing enhancers were identified downstream of nt 3225. These sequences, designated SE1 (nt 3256 to 3305) and SE2 (nt 3477 to 3526), were shown to strongly stimulate the splicing of a chimeric Drosophila doublesex pre-mRNA, which contains a weak 3' splice site. A BPV-1 late pre-mRNA containing the nt 3225 3' splice site but lacking both SE1 and SE2 was spliced poorly, indicating that this 3' splice site is inherently weak. Analysis of the 3' splice site suggested that this feature is due to both a nonconsensus branch point sequence and a suboptimal polypyrimidine tract. Addition of SE1 to the late pre-mRNA dramatically stimulated splicing, indicating that SE1 also functions as an exonic splicing enhancer in its normal context. However, a late pre-mRNA containing both SE1 and SE2 as well as the sequence in between was spliced inefficiently. Further mapping studies demonstrated that a 48-nt pyrimidine-rich region immediately downstream of SE1 was responsible for this suppression of splicing. Thus, these data suggest that selection of the BPV-1 nt 3225 3' splice site is regulated by both positive and negative exonic sequences.
A nuclear cap-binding complex facilitates association of U1 snRNP with the cap-proximal 5' splice site.	The mechanism by which intron-containing RNAs are recognized by the splicing machinery is only partly understood. A nuclear cap-binding complex (CBC), which specifically recognizes the monomethyl guanosine cap structure carried by RNA polymerase II transcripts, has previously been shown to play a role in pre-mRNA splicing. Using a combination of splicing complex and psoralen cross-linking analysis we demonstrate that CBC is required for efficient recognition of the 5' splice site by U1 snRNP during formation of E (early) complex on a pre-mRNA containing a single intron. However, in a pre-mRNA containing two introns, CBC is not required for splicing of the cap distal intron. In this case, the presence of an intact polypyrimidine tract in the cap-proximal intron renders splicing of the cap-distal intron independent of CBC. These results support models in which the splice sites in a pre-mRNA are originally recognized by interactions spanning exons. The defects in splicing and U1 snRNP binding caused by CBC depletion can be specifically reversed by recombinant CBC. In summary, efficient recognition of the cap-proximal 5' splice site by U1 snRNP is facilitated by CBC in what may be one of the earliest steps in pre-mRNA recognition. Data in Colot et al. (this issue) indicate that this function of CBC is conserved in humans and yeast.
Initial splice-site recognition and pairing during pre-mRNA splicing.	Advances over the past year have provided new insights into the mechanisms involved in the initial recognition and pairing of the 5' and 3' splice sites in complex metazoan pre-mRNAs. Highlights include the demonstration that exonic enhancers can promote trans splicing and that an excess of the serine and arginine rich family of splicing proteins can obviate the requirement for U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle in splicing.
Fumarylacetoacetase mutations in tyrosinaemia type I.	Sixty-two hereditary tyrosinaemia type I (HT1) patients of various ethnic origins were classified clinically into acute, chronic, or intermediate phenotypes and screened for the 14 published causal mutations in the fumarylacetoacetase (FAH) gene. Restriction analysis of PCR amplified genomic DNA identified 74% of the mutated alleles. IVS12 + 5G --> A, predominant in the French Canadian HT1 patients, was the most common mutation found in 32 alleles in patients from Europe, Pakistan, Turkey, and the United States. IVS6-1G --> T, encountered in 14 alleles, was common in Central and Western Europe. There was an apparent "Scandinavian" 1009G --> A combined splice and missense mutation (12 alleles), a "Pakistani" 192G --> T splice mutation (11 alleles), a "Turkish" D233V mutation (6 alleles), and a "Finnish" or northern European W262X mutation (7 alleles). The remaining mutations were rare. Some of the mutations seem to predispose for acute and other for more chronic forms of HT1, but in our material no clearcut genotype phenotype correlation could be established.
Cell-division-cycle defects associated with fission yeast pre-mRNA splicing mutants.	We have isolated six new pre-mRNA splicing mutants (prp) from a collection of temperature-sensitive (ts-) Schizosaccharomyces pombe strains. The prp mutants are defective in the splicing of both messenger RNA and U6 small nuclear RNA precursors. A single recessive mutation is responsible for both the ts- growth and the splicing phenotypes in each of the prp mutants. The six prp mutations are unlinked and fall into separate complementation groups. Two are allelic with the previously described prp3 and prp4 mutations; the remaining four define the new alleles prp5-1, prp6-1, prp7-1, and prp9-1. The six mutants exhibit three splicing phenotypes: accumulation of unspliced precursor at the restrictive but not at the permissive temperature; accumulation of unspliced precursor at both the permissive and restrictive temperatures; and accumulation of unspliced precursor, the intron-exon lariat intermediate, and the intron lariat final product. In addition to their aberrant splicing phenotypes, the prp5-1 and prp6-1 mutants express classical cell-division-cycle defects, while prp7-1 exhibits an unusual hyphal morphology. These results suggest a connection between pre-mRNA splicing and the control of cell division in fission yeast.
Prediction of locally optimal splice sites in plant pre-mRNA with applications to gene identification in Arabidopsis thaliana genomic DNA.	Prediction of splice site selection and efficiency from sequence inspection is of fundamental interest (testing the current knowledge of requisite sequence features) and practical importance (genome annotation, design of mutant or transgenic organisms). In plants, the dominant variables affecting splice site selection and efficiency include the degree of matching to the extended splice site consensus and the local gradient of U- and G+C-composition (introns being U-rich and exons G+C-rich). We present a novel method for splice site prediction, which was particularly trained for maize and Arabidopsis thaliana. The method extends our previous algorithm based on logitlinear models by considering three variables simultaneously: intrinsic splice site strength, local optimality and fit with respect to the overall splice pattern prediction. We show that the method considerably improves prediction specificity without compromising the high degree of sensitivity required in gene prediction algorithms. Applications to gene identification are illustrated for Arabidopsis and suggest that successful methods must combine scoring for splice sites, coding potential and similarity with potential homologs in non-trivial ways. A WWW version of the SplicePredictor program is available at http:/gnomic.stanford.edu/volker/SplicePredi ctor.html/
A splicing mutation of the RHAG gene associated with the Rhnull phenotype.	Rhnull is a syndrome serologically characterized by the deficiency of all Rh antigens on human red blood cells. Rhnull is divided into two types: regulator and amorph. Recently, Cherif-Zahar et al. proposed that the RHAG gene encoding the Rh50 glycoprotein is a candidate for inducing regulator type Rhnull. We investigated both the RH and RHAG genes in an Rhnull individual. The reticulocytes from the propositus had RHD, RHcE, and RHCe transcripts without any mutation. However, the sequence analysis of RHAG cDNA showed a deletion of 122 bp from nucleotide 946 to 1067. This deletion was revealed to be due to a homozygous splicing mutation, which is a single base substitution at the consensus sequence of the splicing acceptor site (AG-->AT). The mutation appeared to break the 'GT-AG' splicing rule and to cause 122 bp exon skipping accompanied by a frameshift. This study confirms that the RHAG gene is the most likely candidate for the 'regulator' gene of Rhnull cases.
A novel splice site mutation in the tissue inhibitor of the metalloproteinases-3 gene in Sorsby's fundus dystrophy with unusual clinical features.	Sorsby's fundus dystrophy (SFD) is an autosomal dominant macular dystrophy which is developed usually in the third or fourth decade of life, and is characterized by central visual loss and nyctalopia due to fundus changes of exudative or atrophic macular lesions. Its functional prognosis is usually poor because of disciform macular scars and peripheral chorioretinal atrophies. To date, five different mutations in the tissue inhibitor of the metalloproteinases-3 (TIMP3) gene have been identified in families of a wide geographic origin, all of which are missense mutations that cause replacement by cysteine of conserved amino acids in the C-terminus of exon 5 of TIMP3. We have studied two Japanese families with SFD, the first report from the Eastern world, and identified a novel 3' splice site mutation in the TIMP3 gene, namely a single base insertion at the intron 4/exon 5 junction which converts the consensus sequence CAG to CAAG in the splice acceptor site. In addition, our patients displayed a distinctive clinical expression in that they developed macular dystrophies at an approximately 30-year later age of onset and preserved functional vision until later life with essentially uninvolved peripheral retina. The present findings may provide some insight into the genotype-phenotype relationship in SFD.
More than one way to splice an RNA: branching without a bulge and splicing without branching in group II introns.	Domain 6 (D6) of group II introns contains a bulged adenosine that serves as the branch-site during self-splicing. In addition to this adenosine, other structural features in D6 are likely to contribute to the efficiency of branching. To understand their role in promoting self-splicing, the branch-site and surrounding nucleotides were mutagenized. Detailed kinetic analysis on the self-splicing efficiency of the mutants revealed several interesting features. First, elimination of the branch-site does not preclude efficient splicing, which takes place instead through a hydrolytic first step. Second, pairing of the branch-site does not eliminate branching, particularly if the adenosine is involved in a mispair. Third, the G-U pairs that often surround group II intron branch-points contribute to the efficiency of branching. These results suggest that there is a strong driving force for promoting self-splicing by group II introns, which employ a versatile set of different mechanisms for ensuring that splicing is successful. In addition, the behavior of these mutants indicates that a bulged adenosine per se is not the important determinant for branch-site recognition in group II introns. Rather, the data suggest that the branch-site adenosine is recognized as a flipped base, a conformation that can be promoted by a variety of different substructures in RNA and DNA.
PRP16, a DEAH-box RNA helicase, is recruited to the spliceosome primarily via its nonconserved N-terminal domain.	Dynamic rearrangement of RNA structure is crucial for intron recognition and formation of the catalytic core during pre-mRNA splicing. Three of the splicing factors that contain sequence motifs characteristic of the DExD/DExH-box family of RNA-dependent ATPases (Prp16, Prp22, and the human homologue of Brr2) recently have been shown to unwind RNA duplexes in vitro, providing biochemical evidence that they may direct structural rearrangements on the spliceosome. Notably, however, the unwinding activity of these proteins is sequence nonspecific, raising the question of how their functional specificity is determined. Because the highly conserved DExD/DExH-box domain in these proteins is typically flanked by one or more nonconserved domains, we have tested the hypothesis that the nonconserved regions of Prp16 determine the functional specificity of the protein. We found that the nonconserved N-terminal domain of Prp16 is (1) essential for viability, (2) required for the nuclear localization of Prp16, and (3) capable of binding to the spliceosome specifically at the step of Prp16 function. Moreover, this domain can interact with the rest of the protein to allow trans-complementation. Based on these results, we propose that the spliceosomal target of the unwinding activity of Prp16, and possibly other DExD/DExH-box splicing factors as well, is defined by factors that specifically interact with the nonconserved domains of the protein.
Identification and functional analysis of hPRP17, the human homologue of the PRP17/CDC40 yeast gene involved in splicing and cell cycle control.	The PRP17 gene of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes a protein that participates in the second step of the splicing reaction. It was found recently that the yeast PRP17 gene is identical to the cell division cycle CDC40 gene. The PRP17/CDC40 gene codes for a protein with several copies of the WD repeat, a motif found in a large family of proteins that play important roles in signal transduction, cell cycle progression, splicing, transcription, and development. In this report, we describe the identification of human, nematode, and fission yeast homologues of the PRP17/CDC40 gene of S. cerevisiae. The newly identified proteins share homology with the budding yeast protein throughout their entire sequence, with the similarity being greatest in the C-terminal two thirds that includes the conserved WD repeats. We show that a yeast-human chimera, carrying the C-terminal two thirds of the hPRP17 protein, is able to complement the cell cycle and splicing defects of a yeast prp17 mutant. Moreover, the yeast and yeast-human chimeric proteins co-precipitate the intron-exon 2 lariat intermediate and the intron lariat product, providing evidence that these proteins are spliceosome-associated. These results show the functional conservation of the Prp17 proteins in evolution and suggest that the second step of splicing takes place by a similar mechanism throughout eukaryotes.
Interactions between a herpes simplex virus regulatory protein and cellular mRNA processing pathways.	The herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) immediate-early regulatory protein ICP27 performs essential functions during viral lytic infection. Studies with viral mutants have demonstrated that ICP27 affects the shutoff of host protein synthesis, HSV-1 DNA replication, and the expression of viral early and late genes. Mounting evidence has been presented to demonstrate that ICP27 functions predominantly at the posttranscriptional level by affecting mRNA processing. That is, ICP27 alters poly(A) site usage, impairs host cell splicing, and facilitates the export of viral intronless mRNAs. These diverse effects occur by the interaction of ICP27 with viral and host proteins and by binding RNA. To define the precise mechanisms by which ICP27 affects RNA processing pathways, it is necessary to identify all of the molecular interactions of ICP27 in vivo and to determine the functional significance of these interactions. In vivo approaches will be emphasized here. Protein-protein interactions have been analyzed by coimmunoprecipitation studies, followed by immunoblotting to confirm the identity of coprecipitating proteins. Indirect immunofluorescence staining has been performed on cells treated with RNA polymerase II inhibitors to determine the intracellular distribution of ICP27 related to its RNA export function. Finally, in vivo UV irradiation has been used to covalently cross-link ICP27 to mRNAs in direct contact. This was followed with procedures to isolate and analyze the protein-RNA complexes. These studies have revealed several splicing complex proteins with which ICP27 interacts and have identified a number of intronless RNA transcripts to which ICP27 binds in the nucleus and cytoplasm in its role in RNA transport.
Two alternatively spliced transcripts from the Drosophila period gene rescue rhythms having different molecular and behavioral characteristics.	The period (per) and timeless (tim) genes encode key components of the circadian oscillator in Drosophila melanogaster. The per gene is thought to encode three transcripts via differential splicing (types A, B, and C) that give rise to three proteins. Since the three per mRNA types were based on the analysis of cDNA clones, we tested whether these mRNA types were present in vivo by RNase protection assays and reverse transcriptase-mediated PCR. The results show that per generates two transcript types that differ only by the presence (type A) or absence (type B') of an alternative intron in the 3' untranslated region. Transgenic flies containing transgenes that produce only type B' transcripts (perB'), type A transcripts (perA), or both transcripts (perG) rescue locomotor activity rhythms with average periods of 24.7, 25.4, and 24.4 h, respectively. Although no appreciable differences in type A and type B' mRNA cycling were observed, a slower accumulation of PER in flies making only type A transcripts suggests that the intron affects the translation of per mRNA.
Loss of LKB1 kinase activity in Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, and evidence for allelic and locus heterogeneity.	Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (PJS) is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by mucocutaneous pigmentation and hamartomatous polyps. There is an increased risk of benign and malignant tumors in the gastrointestinal tract and in extraintestinal tissues. One PJS locus has been mapped to chromosome 19p13.3; a second locus is suspected on chromosome 19q13.4 in a minority of families. The PJS gene on 19p13.3 has recently been cloned, and it encodes the serine/threonine kinase LKB1. The gene, which is ubiquitously expressed, is composed of 10 exons spanning 23 kb. Several LKB1 mutations have been reported in heterozygosity in PJS patients. In this study, we screened for LKB1 mutations in nine PJS families of American, Spanish, Portuguese, French, Turkish, and Indian origin and detected seven novel mutations. These included two frameshift mutations, one four-amino-acid deletion, two amino-acid substitutions, and two splicing errors. Expression of mutant LKB1 proteins (K78I, D176N, W308C, and L67P) and assessment of their autophosphorylation activity revealed a loss of the kinase activity in all of these mutants. These results provide direct evidence that the elimination of the kinase activity of LKB1 is probably responsible for the development of the PJS phenotypes. In two Indian families, we failed to detect any LKB1 mutation; in one of these families, we previously had detected linkage to markers on 19q13.3-4, which suggests locus heterogeneity of PJS. The elucidation of the molecular etiology of PJS and the positional cloning of the second potential PJS gene will further elucidate the involvement of kinases/phosphatases in the development of cancer-predisposing syndromes.
The fission yeast prp10(+) gene involved in pre-mRNA splicing encodes a homologue of highly conserved splicing factor, SAP155.	In the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, 14 prp (pre-mRNAprocessing) mutants have been isolated to date. We cloned the prp10(+) gene by complementation of the temperature-sensitive growth of prp10. Five types of transcripts were found that were alternatively spliced with respect to two possible introns located in the 5'-terminal region. Three of them are probably functional and code for putative proteins of approximately 1200 amino acids. Proteins highly homologous to Prp10p are present in other organisms, one of which is a human spliceosome-associated protein SAP155, a subunit of the splicing factor complex SF3. The C-terminal two-thirds of Prp10p is highly conserved among species, and contains consensus repeats for the regulatory subunit A of protein phosphatase PP2A. A gene disruption experiment indicated that the prp10(+) gene is essential for viability in S.pombe. Prp10p tagged with GFP is predominantly localized in the nuclear DNA region. A series of deletions showed that the less conserved N-terminal region of approximately 300 amino acids in Prp10p is dispensable, although the corresponding region was thought to play important roles in the mammalian splicing system.
Natural melatonin 'knockdown' in C57BL/6J mice: rare mechanism truncates serotonin N-acetyltransferase.	Pineal melatonin synthesis (serotonin --> N-acetylserotonin --> melatonin) is severely compromised in most inbred strains of mice, in many cases because serotonin is not acetylated by serotonin N-acetyltransferase (arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase, AANAT). We have found that in the C57BL/6J strain, AANAT mRNA encodes a severely truncated AANAT protein, because a pseudo-exon containing a stop codon is spliced in. This is the first identification of a natural mutation which knocks down melatonin synthesis. The decrease in melatonin signaling may have been a selective factor in the development of laboratory strains of mice because melatonin can inhibit reproduction and modify circadian rhythmicity.
A serpin gene cluster on human chromosome 6p25 contains PI6, PI9 and ELANH2 which have a common structure almost identical to the 18q21 ovalbumin serpin genes.	The human genes encoding the "ovalbumin" subgroup of closely related serine proteinase inhibitors (serpins) are located at 18q21.3 and 6p25. Those at 6p25 include proteinase inhibitor 6 (PI-6; gene symbol PI6), proteinase inhibitor 9 (PI-9; gene symbol PI9) and monocyte neutrophil elastase inhibitor (M/NEI; gene symbol ELANH2). Here we describe the fine mapping of these genes to a 200-kb region of chromosome 6 that includes the markers WI-8835 and D6S1338, and the establishment of the gene order: tel-PI6-PI9-ELANH2-cen. PI6 and ELANH2 are transcribed towards the telomere, and structural analysis shows that PI6 and PI9 are organized identically, having seven exons and six introns. PI6 and PI9 are almost identical in structure to the ovalbumin serpin genes at 18q21.3. The 18q21.3 genes have an extra exon and intron, otherwise all the other exon/intron boundaries are conserved between the two groups. These results represent the first detailed map of the chromosome 6 serpin gene cluster, and demonstrate that although they are very closely related, the 6p25 and 18q21-->q23 ovalbumin serpin genes form two structurally distinct groups. These findings do not support a previously proposed model for evolution of the clusters which invoked an inter-chromosomal duplication of the entire 6p25 group to 18q21.3.
Exon 1 donor splice site mutations in the porphobilinogen deaminase gene in the non-erythroid variant form of acute intermittent porphyria.	Acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by a partial defect of the heme biosynthesis enzyme, porphobilinogen deaminase (PBGD). PBGD is encoded by two distinct mRNA species expressed in a tissue-specific manner from a single gene. One transcript is expressed in erythroid tissues, while the housekeeping transcript is expressed in all tissues. In classical AIP (95% of cases) the housekeeping and the erythroid-specific enzymes both have half-normal activity in erythroid and non-erythroid tissues, whereas in the variant non-erythroid form of the disease the enzymatic defect is present only in non-erythroid cells. A large allelic heterogeneity of mutations (n>135) has been demonstrated in classical AIP, but to date only three different mutations have been characterized in the non-erythroid variant form of AIP. We describe the molecular abnormalities responsible for the non-erythroid variant form of AIP in two French and two German unrelated AIP patients with normal PBGD activity in the erythrocytes. Three different splicing defects located in the intron 1 donor splice site were identified: a 33+1 g-->a mutation, previously described in a Dutch family, was found in two patients; two novel mutations (33+2 t-->a, 33+5 c-->g) affected the two remaining patients. All the mutations resulted in the activation of a cryptic splice site 67 bp downstream in intron 1, leading to a frameshift and a premature stop codon in exon 4. Mutations in the exon 1 donor splice site are involved in eight of the nine non-erythroid variant AIP families reported in the literature. These data show that most mutations causing the non-erythroid variant AIP are exon 1 splice defects, in contrast with classical AIP, where missense mutations are chiefly involved. Moreover, the allelic heterogeneity of PBGD gene defects causing the non-erythroid variant AIP is demonstrated, with five different mutations identified. These mutations could be easily detected by a single denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis which also allows the presymptomatic detection of gene carriers in the affected families.
