A variety of RNA polymerases II and III-dependent promoter classes is repressed by factors containing the Krüppel-associated/finger preceding box of zinc finger proteins.	KRAB/FPB (Krüppel-associated/finger preceding box) domains are small, portable transcriptional repression motifs, encoded by hundreds of vertebrates C2-H2-type zinc finger genes. We report that KRAB/FPB domains feature an unprecedented, highly promiscuous DNA-binding dependent transcriptional repressing activity. Indeed, template bound chimeric factors containing KRAB/FPB modules actively repress in vivo the transcription of distinct promoter classes that depend on different core elements, recruit distinct basal transcriptional apparatuses and are transcribed either by RNA polymerase II or III. The promoter types repressed in transient assays in a dose- and DNA-binding dependent, but position- and orientation-independent manner, by GAL4-KRAB/FPB fusions include an RNA polymerase II-dependent small nuclear RNA promoter (U1) as well as RNA polymerase III-dependent class 2 (adenovirus VA1), class 3 (human U6) and atypical (human 7SL) promoters. Down-modulation of all of these templates depended on factors containing the A module of the KRAB/FPB domain. Data provide further insights into the properties and mode of action of this widespread repression motif, and support the notion that genes belonging to distinct classes may be repressed in vivo by KRAB/FPB containing zinc finger proteins. The exquisitely DNA-binding dependent transcriptional promiscuity exhibited by KRAB/FPB domains may provide a unique model system for studying the mechanism by which a promoter recruited repression motif can down-modulate a large variety of promoter types.
RNA polymerase II-dependent positional effects on mRNA 3' end processing in the adenovirus major late transcription unit.	During the early phase of adenovirus infection, the promoter-proximal L1 poly(A) site in the major late transcription unit is used preferentially despite the fact that the distal L3 poly(A) site is stronger (i.e. it competes better for processing factors and is cleaved at a faster rate, in vitro). Previous work had established that this was due at least in part to the stable binding of the processing factor, cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor, to the L1 poly(A) site as mediated by specific regulatory sequences. It is now demonstrated that in addition, the L1 poly(A) site has a positional advantage because of its 5' location in the transcription unit. We also show that preferential processing of a particular poly(A) site in a complex transcription unit is dependent on RNA polymerase II. Our results are consistent with recent reports demonstrating that the processing factors cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor and cleavage stimulatory factor are associated with the RNA polymerase II holoenzyme; thus, processing at a weak poly(A) site like L1 can be enhanced by virtue of its being the first site to be transcribed.
A highly purified RNA polymerase II elongation control system.	Studying the sensitivity of transcription to the nucleotide analog 5,6-dichloro-1-beta-d-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole has led to the discovery of a number of proteins involved in the regulation of transcription elongation by RNA polymerase II. We have developed a highly purified elongation control system composed of three purified proteins added back to isolated RNA polymerase II elongation complexes. Two of the proteins, 5,6-dichloro-1-beta-d-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole sensitivity-inducing factor (DSIF) and negative elongation factor (NELF), act as negative transcription elongation factors by increasing the time the polymerase spent at pause sites. P-TEFb reverses the negative effect of DSIF and NELF through a mechanism dependent on its kinase activity. TFIIF is a general initiation factor that positively affects elongation by decreasing pausing. We show that TFIIF functionally competes with DSIF and NELF, and this competition is dependent on the relative concentrations of TFIIF and NELF.
The structural and functional organization of the yeast mediator complex.	The Mediator complex of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is required for diverse aspects of transcription by RNA polymerase II (pol II). Mediator is composed of two functionally distinct subcomplexes, Rgr1 and Srb4. To identify the structures and functions of each subcomplex, we expressed recombinant proteins for each subunit and assayed their interactions with each other and with basal transcription proteins. The Rgr1 subcomplex is composed of the Gal11 module, which binds activators, and the Med9/10 module. The Med9/10 module is required for both transcriptional activation and repression, and these activities appear to be carried out by two submodules. Proteins in the Med9 submodule interact physically and genetically with Srb10/11, suggesting that the Med9 submodule mediates the repression of pol II. Purified recombinant Srb4 subcomplex stimulated basal transcription of pol II but had little effect on activated transcription and phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain of the Rpb1 subunit of pol II. Both subcomplexes of Mediator interacted with a distinct set of basal transcription factors and pol II. The modular organization of Mediator and the associated functions suggest that the Mediator complex may recruit and/or stabilize the preinitiation complex through several points of contact with transcriptional regulators and basal transcription factors.
Expanding the functional repertoire of CTD kinase I and RNA polymerase II: novel phosphoCTD-associating proteins in the yeast proteome.	CTD kinase I (CTDK-I) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is required for normal phosphorylation of the C-terminal repeat domain (CTD) on elongating RNA polymerase II. To elucidate cellular roles played by this kinase and the hyperphosphorylated CTD (phosphoCTD) it generates, we systematically searched yeast extracts for proteins that bound to the phosphoCTD made by CTDK-I in vitro. Initially, using a combination of far-western blotting and phosphoCTD affinity chromatography, we discovered a set of novel phosphoCTD-associating proteins (PCAPs) implicated in a variety of nuclear functions. We identified the phosphoCTD-interacting domains of a number of these PCAPs, and in several test cases (namely, Set2, Ssd1, and Hrr25) adduced evidence that phosphoCTD binding is functionally important in vivo. Employing surface plasmon resonance (BIACORE) analysis, we found that recombinant versions of these and other PCAPs bind preferentially to CTD repeat peptides carrying SerPO(4) residues at positions 2 and 5 of each seven amino acid repeat, consistent with the positional specificity of CTDK-I in vitro [Jones, J. C., et al. (2004) J. Biol. Chem. 279, 24957-24964]. Subsequently, we used a synthetic CTD peptide with three doubly phosphorylated repeats (2,5P) as an affinity matrix, greatly expanding our search for PCAPs. This resulted in identification of approximately 100 PCAPs and associated proteins representing a wide range of functions (e.g., transcription, RNA processing, chromatin structure, DNA metabolism, protein synthesis and turnover, RNA degradation, snRNA modification, and snoRNP biogenesis). The varied nature of these PCAPs and associated proteins points to an unexpectedly diverse set of connections between Pol II elongation and other processes, conceptually expanding the role played by CTD phosphorylation in functional organization of the nucleus.
When transcription and repair meet: a complex system.	Transcription-coupled repair (TCR) is a mechanism that removes DNA lesions so that genes can be transcribed correctly. However, the sequence of events that results in a DNA lesion being repaired remains elusive. In this review, we illustrate the potential chain of events leading to the elimination of the damaged DNA and the proper resumption of transcription. We focus on the roles of CSA and CSB proteins, which, when mutated, impair TCR. Defective TCR is one of the features of Cockayne syndrome, a DNA-repair disorder.
The transcriptional activity of RNA polymerase I is a key determinant for the level of all ribosome components.	Regulation of ribosome biogenesis is a key element of cell biology, not only because ribosomes are directly required for growth, but also because ribosome production monopolizes nearly 80% of the global transcriptional activity in rapidly growing yeast cells. These observations underscore the need for a tight regulation of ribosome synthesis in response to environmental conditions. In eukaryotic cells, ribosome synthesis involves the activities of the three nuclear RNA polymerases (Pol). Although postulated, there is no clear evidence indicating whether the maintenance of an equimolar supply of ribosomal components reflects communication between the nuclear transcriptional machineries. Here, by constructing a yeast strain expressing a Pol I that remains constitutively competent for the initiation of transcription under stress conditions, we demonstrate that derepression of Pol I transcription leads to a derepression of Pol II transcription that is restricted to the genes encoding ribosomal proteins. Furthermore, we show that the level of 5S rRNA, synthesized by Pol III, is deregulated concomitantly with Pol I transcription. Altogether, these results indicate that a partial derepression of Pol I activity drives an abnormal accumulation of all ribosomal components, highlighting the critical role of the regulation of Pol I activity within the control of ribosome biogenesis.
Regulation of the human T-cell leukemia virus gene expression depends on the localization of regulatory proteins Tax, Rex and p30II in specific nuclear subdomains.	The human T-cell leukemia virus HTLV-1 encodes regulatory proteins, Tax, Rex and p30(II), which are involved in the control of viral gene expression at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. Tax localizes in unique nuclear bodies that contain components of the transcription and splicing complexes. In this work, we studied the relative intracellular localizations of Tax, Rex and p30(II). Run-on transcription assays and immunocytochemistry at light and electron microscopy levels indicated that the Tax nuclear bodies included both de novo transcribed RNA and the RNA polymerase II form that is phosphorylated on its carboxy-terminal domain whereas contacts with chromatin were observed at the periphery of these nuclear bodies. Rex first accumulated in nucleolar foci and then spread across the whole nucleus to display a diffuse and punctuate nucleoplasmic distribution. This distribution of Rex was observed in HTLV-1 transformed lymphocytes and in COS cells expressing the HTLV-1 provirus. Rex colocalized with the cellular export factor CRM-1 in the nucleolar foci as well as in the nucleoplasmic foci that did not overlap with Tax nuclear bodies but were found at the boundaries of the Tax bodies. In addition, we demonstrate that p30(II) interacts with Rex and colocalizes with the Rex/CRM-1 complexes in the nucleoli leading to their clearance from the nucleoplasm. Our results suggest that transcripts originating from Tax-induced activation of gene expression at the boundaries of the Tax bodies are transported out of the nucleus by nucleoplasmic Rex/CRM-1 complexes that are first assembled in nucleolar foci. In addition, p30(II) might exert its negative effect on viral RNA transport by preventing the release of the Rex/CRM-1 complexes from sequestration in nucleolar foci. These data support the idea that the transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of HTLV-1 gene expression depends on the concentration of select regulatory complexes at specific area of the nucleus.
Sequence-specific antirepression of histone H1-mediated inhibition of basal RNA polymerase II transcription.	To understand the principles of control and selectivity in gene expression, the biochemical mechanisms by which promoter- and enhancer-binding factors regulate transcription by RNA polymerase II were analyzed. A general observed repressor of transcription was purified and identified as histone H1. Since many aspects of H1 binding to naked DNA resemble its interaction with chromatin, purified H1 bound to naked DNA was used as a model for the repressed state of the DNA template. Three sequence-specific transcription factors, Sp1, GAL4-VP16, and GAGA factor, were shown to counteract H1-mediated repression (antirepression). In addition, Sp1 and GAL4-VP16, but not the GAGA factor, activated transcription in the absence of H1. Therefore, true activation and antirepression appear to be distinct activities of sequence-specific factors. Furthermore, transcription antirepression by GAL4-VP16 was sustained for several rounds of transcription. These findings, together with previous studies on H1, suggest that H1 participates in repression of the genome in the ground state and that sequence-specific transcription factors induce selected genes by a combination of true activation and release of basal repression that is mediated at least in part by H1.
Structure and functional properties of human general transcription factor IIE.	The general transcription factor IIE (TFIIE) is an essential component of the eukaryotic RNA polymerase II initiation complex. We have isolated human complementary DNA clones for both the subunits of TFIIE. Using purified recombinant proteins we find that both subunits are essential to form a stable preinitiation complex and to reconstitute basal-level and Sp1-activated transcription in vitro. Analysis of their predicted amino-acid sequences reveals several intriguing structural motifs that could provide insight into the role of TFIIE in transcription initiation.
Preparing the first responders: building the inflammatory transcriptome from the ground up.	In cells of the immune system, inflammatory stimuli trigger highly coordinated cascades of gene activation that are precisely calibrated to the nature and strength of the stimulus. Herein, we describe the forces that control inflammatory gene transcription and highlight that many critical determinants of responsiveness are established prior to challenge. We discuss key steps in the transcription cycle that are regulated during gene activation and the importance of the underlying enhancer landscape. Further, we illustrate how the diversity in regulatory strategies employed at inflammatory genes provides novel opportunities for therapeutic intervention.
An enhancer stimulates transcription in trans when attached to the promoter via a protein bridge.	Two principal models have been invoked to explain transcriptional stimulation of RNA polymerase II genes by enhancers/upstream promoter elements: in one, upstream regulatory sequences directly interact with proximal promoter elements via proteins bound to the DNA ("looping" model); in the other, RNA polymerase II (or a transcription factor) binds to distal sequences and then scans along the DNA until it reaches the promoter ("scanning" or "entry site" model). So far, it has been reported that enhancers or upstream promoter elements transmit their effect on a gene only via covalently closed DNA, i.e., in a cis configuration. The looping model predicts, however, that the effect can be transmitted also in certain trans configurations. Here we demonstrate that an enhancer from SV40 or cytomegalovirus can stimulate transcription in vitro even when noncovalently attached to the beta-globin promoter via the proteins streptavidin or avidin. These findings are consistent with the looping model rather than the scanning model. In addition, stimulation of transcription in trans, as shown by our experiments, may be found in nature in phenomena such as transvection, where one chromosome affects gene expression in the paired homolog.
Simian virus 40 late transcripts lacking excisable intervening sequences are defective in both stability in the nucleus and transport to the cytoplasm.	Little or no simian virus 40 (SV40) late mRNA accumulates in the cytoplasm when the primary transcript lacks an excisable intervening sequence. To begin to understand why, we analyzed the synthesis, processing, transport, and stability of SV40 late transcripts accumulated in the nucleus and cytoplasm of monkey cells cotransfected with the DNAs of wild-type and mutants of SV40 lacking precisely various introns. The data from these experiments indicated that (i) the presence of excisable intervening sequences in SV40 late transcripts is necessary for efficient accumulation in the cytoplasm of any of the SV40 late RNA species and (ii) SV40 late transcripts lacking excisable intervening sequences are defective in both stability in the nucleus and transport to the cytoplasm but not in stability in the cytoplasm. We hypothesize that SV40 late transcripts need to be processed via a pathway that couples stabilization of the primary transcript within the nucleus, excision of intervening sequences, proper 5'- and 3'-end formation, and transport to the cytoplasm.
Function of a yeast TATA element-binding protein in a mammalian transcription system.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae contains a protein which is functionally similar to the mammalian TATA element-binding transcription factor, TFIID. The yeast factor substitutes for TFIID in a mammalian RNA polymerase II in vitro transcription system, forms a stable preinitiation complex on the Adenovirus-2 major late promoter, and binds specifically to the TATA boxes of the viral promoter and the yeast CYC1 promoter. Interestingly, the yeast factor promotes initiation at a distance from the TATA element typical of a mammalian system.
Trans-activation of a methylated adenovirus promoter by a frog virus 3 protein.	The high degree of methylation of the frog virus 3 (FV3) genome suggests that FV3-infected cells are capable of transcribing highly methylated DNA. We tested this hypothesis by assaying the transcriptional activity of adenovirus promoters known to be inhibited by methylation. Plasmid constructs containing the E1a and E2aE promoters of adenovirus type 12 linked to the gene for chloramphenicol acetyltransferase [(CAT) EC 2.3.1.28], when methylated and introduced into eukaryotic cells, promoted CAT synthesis only when the cells were subsequently infected with FV3. Mapping of transcriptional initiation sites revealed that the same sites in the E1a promoter were used for the initiation of transcription in uninfected and infected cells. Moreover, Southern blots showed that transfected plasmid DNA from FV3-infected cells was not demethylated. The absence of CAT-specific RNA in transfected cells infected with FV3 in the presence of protein synthesis inhibitors demonstrated that a virus-induced protein was responsible for the trans-activation. Inhibition of transcription from the methylated template by alpha-amanitin indicated that a functional host RNA polymerase II is required for transcription of methylated DNA in FV3-infected cells. The virus-induced trans-acting protein presumably alters either host RNA polymerase II or the methylated DNA template to allow transcription from the methylated adenovirus promoters.
Transcription: basal factors and activation.	Much progress has been made in the past few years in understanding the mechanism and regulation of mRNA synthesis. This rapid progress has largely been due to the availability of cloned genes encoding components of the transcription machinery. Structural and biochemical studies are rapidly defining the architecture of components in the transcription complex. Highly purified biochemical systems are beginning to elucidate the role of the individual initiation factors. The identification of a large complex that contains a polymerase, termed holoenzyme, has provided a new way of thinking about how the transcription complex assembles at a promoter. The mechanism of transcription stimulation by activators is beginning to be unraveled but still appears to be a complex process. Finally, analyses of genes involved in DNA repair, cell cycle control and transcription have revealed similarities between transcription and other forms of cell regulation.
