Isolating and sequencing the infrequent 3'-ends of a specific mRNA.	Procedures are described for identification of very infrequent in vivo 3'-ends of RNA. After purification by filter hybridization, the 3'-ends were labeled with [5'-32P] cytosine-3'-P in the RNA ligase reaction. Significantly fewer counts were incorporated in the ligase reaction than in the polynucleotide kinase reaction to label 5'-ends. The incorporation was increased by increasing the RNA concentration 5-10 fold by using only one round of filter hybridization. Non-specific RNA binding could be eliminated by RNase A treatment of the filter if a great excess of denatured heterologous DNA was immobilized along with the DNA probe. Significant amounts of DNA were released when eluting the hybrid RNA from such filters. DNA inhibited the ligase reaction, while its DNase products were even more inhibitory. Treatment of the DNase products with alkaline phosphatase completely eliminated the inhibition. We detected no spurious 5'- or 3'-ends generated in the hybrid RNA by RNase A activity used to reduce the non-specific RNA. Also, RNase T1 could be used in place of RNase A to eliminate non-specific RNA binding, but about 25 times more RNase T1 (microgram/microgram) was needed. We used partial alkali digestion to sequence 3'-ends. A major (one hit) and minor (two hit) set of products were produced which could be distinguished from each other by alkaline phosphatase treatment and homochromatography of the products.
RNA-ligase of bacteriophage T4. IV. Synthesis of pentadecaribonucleotide ApUpG(pU)6(pA)5pAp]	Oligoribonucleotide ApUpG(pU)6(pA)5pAp (I) has been prepared by means of RNA ligase. ApUpG, synthesised by the phosphotriester approach, was elongated in the 3'-direction by adding (pU)6 and then (pA)6, which was 3'-blocked with the phosphate or with the periodate-oxidized AMP residue, the latter giving considerably lower level of by-products. Condensation of ApUpG(pU)6 with blocked (pA)6 was carried out under conditions optimal for poor acceptors (20 degrees C, 48 h, pH 8,7) to afford (I) with the yield of 20% (105 OE260); ApUpG(pU)6(pA)10pAp was identified as a byproduct.
Enzymatic incorporation into oligonucleotides of modified nucleosides]	Behaviour of modified nucleosides, tRNA components, and their analogues has been studied in the internucleotide bond formation catalysed by ribonucleases of various substrate specificity, polynucleotide phosphorylases, and T4 RNA ligase and the results are summarised in this paper. Pseudouridine, dihydrouridine, ribothymidine, 5-methylcytidine, inosine, and 6-methyladenosine can participate in the reaction of internucleotide bond formation the presence of most ribonucleases used, viz. Pb2, Pcl2, Pb1, Pch1, C2, T1, pancreatic RNase. 3-Methylcytidine and 4-acetylcytidine form internucleotide bond (as phosphate acceptors) usually by means of guanyl-specific ribonucleases, whereas 1-methylandenosine is incorporated with ribonuclease Pel2. 7-Methylguanosine and 1-methylguynosine 2',3'-cyclophosphates can be used as phosphate donors in the presence of ribonuclease Pb2; in the similar enzymatic reaction 6-isopentenyladenosine is an uneffective acceptor.
Synthesis of 5' fragments of formylmethionine transfer ribonucleic acid and their reconstitution with a natural three-quarter molecule.	An eicosanucleotide C--G--C--G--G--G--G--U--G--G--A--G--C--A--G--C--C--U--G--Gp corresponding to the bases 1--20 of the nascent sequence for the Escherichia coli tRNAfMet has been synthesized by the joining of the chemically synthesized oligonucleotides C--G--C--G, G--G--G--U--G--G and A--G--C--A--G--C--C--U--G--Gp using RNA ligase from T4-infected E. coli. The hexanucleotide and decanucleotide were phosphorylated with polynucleotide kinase and [gamma-32P]ATP prior to the joining reactions. The decanucleotide and eicosanucleotide were reconstituted respectively with the 3'-three-quarter molecule obtained by limited digestion with RNase T1 of the natural tRNAfMet from E. coli and the activity of the complex as a methionine acceptor was tested using purified methionyl-tRNA synthetase from E. coli. The amino acid acceptor activity of the reconstituted molecules was 11% and 84% with respect to that of the intact tRNAfMet.
Freeze-fracture electron microscopic analysis of solutions of biological molecules.	Freeze-fracture electron microscopy was used to study the morphology of proteins in solution. The size of the particles appearing on the fractured surface, replicated with tungstentantalum, were measured in a direction perpendicular to the shadowing angle. The distributions of the measured particle sizes could be correlated with the known shape and dimensions for each protein. It is concluded that freeze-fracture electron microscopy is a useful technique to study the morphology of biological molecules in solution, particularly hydrophobic proteins which may be difficult to study by other microscopic techniques.
