Mapping of two antigenic domains on the NS3 protein of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus.	The immunodominant NS3 (p80) protein of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) functions as a serine protease and a RNA helicase. To identify antigenic domains of the BVDV NS3, a panel of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) was tested against fragments of the protein expressed in E. coli. Two large overlapping NS3 fragments, A (amino acids [aa] 1-434) and B (aa 368-683) which together contain all NS3 sequences, were used to screen mAbs for reactivity. Two mAbs, 21.5.8 and 1.11.3, were reactive to fragment A (in ELISA only) and one mAb, 20.10.6, was reactive to fragment B (in ELISA and Western blotting). Further mapping demonstrated that the smallest fragment mAbs 21.5.8 and 1.11.3 bound to was comprised of aa 205-369 (domain A). In Western blotting, the smallest fragment reactive with mAb 20.10.6 was comprised of aa 368-549 (domain B). However, in indirect ELISA, mAb 20.10.6 also demonstrated high reactivity to a smaller fragment comprising aa 368-512 (domain B'). This indicated that the epitope of mAb 20.10.6 was conformational and not linear. Blocking ELISAs using these mAbs and type 1 and type 2 BVDV antisera demonstrated that an immunodominant region of the NS3 protein in cattle is defined by aa 205-549.
Sabotage of antiviral signaling and effectors by influenza viruses.	Vertebrate cells activate multiple signaling modules upon virus infection to eliminate the invading pathogen and to prevent the establishment of a persistent infection. A major immediate response pathway is controlled by the RNA helicases RIG-I and MDA5, which, after recognition of viral nucleic acids, signal induction of the interferon (IFN)-alpha/beta cytokine family that upregulates numerous antiviral effector proteins. Virulent viruses, in contrast, have learned during co-evolution with their hosts to manipulate or avoid this response in order to prevail in a repulsive environment. Focusing on the influenza viruses and their IFN-antagonistic NS1 proteins, we summarize recent progress in this rapidly evolving field at the intersection of virology and immunobiology involving studies of how viral pathogens induce and sabotage cellular defenses.
Recognition of viruses in the cytoplasm by RLRs and other helicases--how conformational changes, mitochondrial dynamics and ubiquitination control innate immune responses.	Mammalian cells possess multiple sensors for recognition of invasion by a broad range of microbes. This recognition occurs through specific molecular signatures found across various pathogens. Toll-like receptors (TLRs), retinoic acid-inducible gene-I (RIG-I)-like receptors (RLRs), nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptors (NLRs) and C-type lectin receptors (CLRs) are the major cellular pathogen-recognition receptors (PRRs) responsible for this recognition. TLRs are transmembrane sensors, whereas other PRRs mainly localize in the cytoplasm for the activation of type I interferons and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Among these PRRs, RLRs are well known for their indispensable role in sensing the invasion of RNA viruses. This review summarizes recent advances in knowledge about viral recognition by RLRs and their signalling pathways, and introduces newly emerging RNA helicases involved in innate immune responses.
Elucidating the role of T cells in protection against and pathogenesis of dengue virus infections.	Dengue viruses (DENV) cause significantly more human disease than any other arbovirus, with hundreds of thousands of cases leading to severe disease in thousands annually. Antibodies and T cells induced by primary infection with DENV have the potential for both positive (protective) and negative (pathological) effects during subsequent DENV infections. In this review, we summarize studies that have examined T-cell responses in humans following natural infection and vaccination. We discuss studies that support a role for T cells in protection against and those that support a role for the involvement of T cells in the pathogenesis of severe disease. The mechanisms that lead to severe disease are complex, and T-cell responses are an important component that needs to be further evaluated for the development of safe and efficacious DENV vaccines.
