A protein phosphatase functions to recycle RNA polymerase II.	Transcription is regulated by the state of phosphorylation of a heptapeptide repeat known as the carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) present in the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII). RNAPII that associates with transcription initiation complexes contains an unphosphorylated CTD, whereas the elongating polymerase has a phosphorylated CTD. Transcription factor IIH has a kinase activity specific for the CTD that is stimulated by the formation of a transcription initiation complex. Here, we report the isolation of a cDNA clone encoding a 150-kD polypeptide, which, together with RNAPII, reconstitutes a highly specific CTD phosphatase activity. Functional analysis demonstrates that the CTD phosphatase allows recycling of RNAPII. The phosphatase dephosphorylates the CTD allowing efficient incorporation of RNAPII into transcription initiation complexes, which results in increased transcription. The CTD phosphatase was found to be active in ternary elongation complexes. Moreover, the phosphatase stimulates elongation by RNAPII; however, this function is independent of its catalytic activity.
Activation of RNA polymerase II transcription.	Multiple alternative interactions between activators and co-activators stimulate transcription by RNA polymerase II. In the past two years, multiprotein co-activator complexes have been characterized and their subunits defined. TATA-box binding protein associated factor (TAF) subunits of yeast TFIID were found to be generally required for transcription in vivo. Mammalian multisubunit coactivator complexes with homologs of the yeast SRB/Mediator subunits have been characterized. Structures of nuclear receptor-coactivator complexes have been determined.
Coupling RNA polymerase II transcription with pre-mRNA processing.	How are transcription and processing of mRNA precursors co-ordinated? The past two years has witnessed exciting insights into the mechanism which targets the mRNA processing machinery to RNA polymerase II (pol II) transcription complexes and closely integrates processing with transcription. Protein-protein contacts have been discovered between the pol II transcription machinery and RNA processing factors; furthermore, a unique domain of pol II has been identified that not only recruits processing factors but also controls their activity.
Mechanism and regulation of transcriptional elongation by RNA polymerase II.	Over the past few years, biochemical and genetic studies have shed considerable light on the structure and function of the RNA polymerase II (pol II) elongation complex and the transcription factors that control it. Novel elongation factors have been identified and their mechanisms of action characterized in increasing detail; new insights into the biological roles of elongation factors have been gained from genetic studies of the regulation of mRNA synthesis in yeast; and intriguing links between the pol II elongation machinery and the pathways of DNA repair and recombination have emerged.
Tuning somatic hypermutation by transcription.	The dependence of somatic hypermutation on transcription was studied in three mutant immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) insertion mice in which a targeted non-functional VHB1-8 passenger transgene was either placed under the transcriptional control of a truncated DQ52 promoter (p delta), its own RNA polymerase II dependent IgH promoter (pII) or a RNA polymerase I dependent promoter (pI). The relative mutation-frequency of the VHB1-8 passenger transgene in memory B cells of p delta, pI and pII mice (7%, 60% and 100%) correlated with the relative levels of transgene-specific pre-mRNA expressed in germinal center B cells isolated from the mutant mice (8%, 72% and 100%, respectively). These data indicate that the mutation load of rearranged Ig genes can be tuned by transcription. The question, whether somatic hypermutation requires transcription per se or a specific component of the RNA polymerase II complex, is under investigation.
Regulation of c-myc and immunoglobulin kappa gene transcription by promoter-proximal pausing of RNA polymerase II.	In normal cells, the proto-oncogene c-myc is regulated by promoter-proximal pausing of RNA polymerase II (pol II). In Burkitt lymphoma cells, c-myc is chromosomally translocated to one of the three immunoglobulin (Ig) gene loci and its transcription is driven constitutively by Ig enhancers. Promoter-proximal pausing of pol II is abolished on the translocated c-myc allele. This raised the question whether induction of Ig gene transcription also involves activation of promoter-proximal paused pol II. Here we have studied the transcriptional activation of a functionally rearranged Ig kappa gene in the mouse pre B cell line 70Z/3. We show that pol II pauses approximately 50 bp downstream of the transcriptional start site of the uninduced Ig kappa gene.
Dynamics of RNA polymerase II localization during the cell cycle.	Mitosis is characterized by condensation of chromatin, cessation of RNA transcription, and redistribution of nuclear proteins. We investigated the distribution of the hypo- and hyperphosphorylated forms of RNA polymerase II in mitotic cells from different cell lines by immunofluorescence. In interphase cells, the hyperphosphorylated RNA polymerase II (Pol IIO) is present in speckles and diffusely throughout the nucleoplasm. In prophase, when speckles disappear, Pol IIO concentrates at the surface of chromosomes and, in addition, localizes in small spots throughout the cytoplasm. The association of Pol IIO with the surface of chromosomes is visible until the chromosomes start to decondense during late anaphase/early telophase. In telophase cells, Pol IIO is absent in newly formed nuclei but present in the cytoplasm, while Pol IIO disappears nearly completely in late telophase cells. In early G1 cells, when cell nuclei increase in size, Pol IIO becomes present in the nucleus, first in small spots and later diffusely and in speckles. The hypophosphorylated form of RNA polymerase II (Pol IIA) is nearly absent in mitotic cells suggesting that Pol IIA is hyperphosphorylated at the onset of mitosis. Because Pol IIO, unlike Pol IIA, cannot assemble in transcription preinitiation complexes, the conversion of Pol IIA to Pol IIO and the lining of chromosomes with Pol IIO might be underlying a mechanism by which mitotic cells repress their transcriptional activity.
The RNA polymerase II core subunit 11 interacts with keratin 19, a component of the intermediate filament proteins.	We have previously cloned the human RNA polymerase II subunit 11, as a doxorubicin sensitive gene product. We suggested multiple tasks for this subunit, including structural and regulatory roles. With the aim to clarify the human RNA polymerase II subunit 11 function, we have identified its interacting protein partners using the yeast two-hybrid system. Here, we show that human RNA polymerase II subunit 11 specifically binds keratin 19, a component of the intermediate filament protein family, which is expressed in a tissue and differentiation-specific manner. In particular, keratin 19 is a part of the nuclear matrix intermediate filaments. We provide evidence that human RNA polymerase II subunit 11 interacts with keratin 19 via its N-terminal alpha motif, the same motif necessary for its interaction with the human RNA polymerase II core subunit 3. We found that keratin 19 contains two putative leucine zipper domains sharing peculiar homology with the alpha motif of human RNA polymerase II subunit 3. Finally, we demonstrate that keratin 19 can compete for binding human RNA polymerase II subunit 11/human RNA polymerase II subunit 3 in vitro, suggesting a possible regulatory role for this molecule in RNA polymerase II assembly/activity.
Transcriptional elements involved in the repression of ribosomal protein synthesis.	The ribosomal proteins (RPs) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae are encoded by 137 genes that are among the most transcriptionally active in the genome. These genes are coordinately regulated: a shift up in temperature leads to a rapid, but temporary, decline in RP mRNA levels. A defect in any part of the secretory pathway leads to greatly reduced ribosome synthesis, including the rapid loss of RP mRNA. Here we demonstrate that the loss of RP mRNA is due to the rapid transcriptional silencing of the RP genes, coupled to the naturally short lifetime of their transcripts. The data suggest further that a global inhibition of polymerase II transcription leads to overestimates of the stability of individual mRNAs. The transcription of most RP genes is activated by two Rap1p binding sites, 250 to 400 bp upstream from the initiation of transcription. Rap1p is both an activator and a silencer of transcription. The swapping of promoters between RPL30 and ACT1 or GAL1 demonstrated that the Rap1p binding sites of RPL30 are sufficient to silence the transcription of ACT1 in response to a defect in the secretory pathway. Sir3p and Sir4p, implicated in the Rap1p-mediated repression of silent mating type genes and of telomere-proximal genes, do not influence such silencing of RP genes. Sir2p, implicated in the silencing both of the silent mating type genes and of genes within the ribosomal DNA locus, does not influence the repression of either RP or rRNA genes. Surprisingly, the 180-bp sequence of RPL30 that lies between the Rap1p sites and the transcription initiation site is also sufficient to silence the Gal4p-driven transcription in response to a defect in the secretory pathway, by a mechanism that requires the silencing region of Rap1p. We conclude that for Rap1p to activate the transcription of an RP gene it must bind to upstream sequences; yet for Rap1p to repress the transcription of an RP gene it need not bind to the gene directly. Thus, the cell has evolved a two-pronged approach to effect the rapid extinction of RP synthesis in response to the stress imposed by a heat shock or by a failure of the secretory pathway. Calculations based on recent transcriptome data and on the half-life of the RP mRNAs suggest that in a rapidly growing cell the transcription of RP mRNAs accounts for nearly 50% of the total transcriptional events initiated by RNA polymerase II. Thus, the sudden silencing of the RP genes must have a dramatic effect on the overall transcriptional economy of the cell.
Human transcription factor hTAF(II)150 (CIF150) is involved in transcriptional regulation of cell cycle progression.	Here we present evidence that CIF150 (hTAF(II)150), the human homolog of Drosophila TAF(II)150, plays an important and selective role in establishing gene expression patterns necessary for progression through the cell cycle. Gel filtration experiments demonstrate that CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) seems to be less tightly associated with human transcription factor IID than hTAF(II)130 is associated with hTAF(II)250. The transient functional knockout of CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) protein led to cell cycle arrest at the G(2)/M transition in mammalian cell lines. PCR display analysis with the RNA derived from CIF150-depleted cells indicated that CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) is required for the transcription of only a subset of RNA polymerase II genes. CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) directly stimulated cyclin B1 and cyclin A transcription in cotransfection assays and in vitro assays, suggesting that the expression of these genes is dependent on CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) function. We defined a CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) consensus binding site and demonstrated that a CIF150-responsive cis element is present in the cyclin B1 core promoter. These results suggest that one function of CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) is to select specific RNA polymerase II core promoter elements involved in cell cycle progression.
Transcription factor TFIIH is required for promoter melting in vivo.	The Rad25 protein in yeast is a DNA helicase and a subunit of the general transcription factor TFIIH. While in vitro studies have led to the hypothesis that TFIIH helicase activity plays a role in promoter melting, in vivo tests are lacking. Using potassium permanganate, which preferentially modifies single-stranded DNA, we show that a temperature-sensitive rad25(ts) mutant severely reduces the normally extensive promoter melting observed in vivo on the highly expressed genes TDH2 and PDC1 and on the induced heat shock gene HSP82. Loss of promoter melting can be observed in as little as 30 s after a shift to the nonpermissive temperature and is accompanied by a dramatic reduction in transcription. These effects on the promoter are specific, since the mutation does not affect TATA box occupancy or, in the case of HSP82, recruitment of TATA-binding protein to the TATA element or that of heat shock factor to heat shock elements. Additionally, using the technique of formaldehyde cross-linking coupled with restriction endonuclease cleavage and ligation-mediated PCR, we were able to map the polymerase density on the promoter of HSP82. This high-resolution mapping allowed us to determine that the polymerase II (Pol II) density on the promoter is also dramatically reduced after inactivation of TFIIH. These data provide strong support for the hypothesis that TFIIH functions with Pol II in the transcriptionally required step of promoter melting and show, surprisingly, that the extent of TFIIH-dependent promoter melting observed in vivo is several times larger than that seen in vitro.
CrkRS: a novel conserved Cdc2-related protein kinase that colocalises with SC35 speckles.	We have isolated and characterised a novel human protein kinase, Cdc2-related kinase with an arginine/serine-rich (RS) domain (CrkRS), that is most closely related to the cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) family. CrkRS is a 1490 amino acid protein, the largest CDK-related kinase so far isolated. The protein kinase domain of CrkRS is 89% identical to the 46 kDa CHED protein kinase, but outside the kinase domains the two proteins are completely unrelated. CrkRS has extensive proline-rich regions that match the consensus for SH3 and WW domain binding sites, and an RS domain that is predominantly found in splicing factors. CrkRS is ubiquitously expressed in tissues, and maps to a single genetic locus. There are closely related protein kinases in both the Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans genomes. Consistent with the presence of an RS domain, anti-CrkRS antibodies stain nuclei in a speckled pattern, overlapping with spliceosome components and the hyperphosphorylated form of RNA polymerase II. Like RNA polymerase II, CrkRS is a constitutive MPM-2 antigen throughout the cell cycle. Anti-CrkRS immunoprecipitates phosphorylate the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II in vitro. Thus CrkRS may be a novel, conserved link between the transcription and splicing machinery.
A novel cyclin provides a link between dopamine and RNA processing.	Regulation of gene expression by dopamine may play an important role in learning, reward, and addiction. Hyman and colleagues now report the characterization of ania-6, a novel cyclin that associates with RNA polymerase II and is induced by dopamine or cocaine in the neostriatum. Ania-6 may thus provide a link between dopamine and gene expression at the level of mRNA processing.
Dopamine and glutamate induce distinct striatal splice forms of Ania-6, an RNA polymerase II-associated cyclin.	Control of neuronal gene expression by drugs or neurotransmitters is a critical step in long-term neural plasticity. Here, we show that a gene induced in the striatum by cocaine or direct dopamine stimulation, ania-6, is a member of a novel family of cyclins with homology to cyclins K/T/H/C. Further, different types of neurotransmitter stimulation cause selective induction of distinct ania-6 isoforms, through alternative splicing. The longer Ania-6 protein colocalizes with nuclear speckles and is associated with key elements of the RNA elongation/processing complex, including the hyperphosphorylated form of RNA polymerase II, the splicing factor SC-35, and the p110 PITSLRE cyclin-dependent kinase. Distinct types of neuronal stimulation may therefore differentially modulate nuclear RNA processing, through altered transcription and splicing of ania-6.
TAF(II)250: a transcription toolbox.	Activation of RNA-polymerase-II-dependent transcription involves conversion of signals provided by gene-specific activator proteins into the synthesis of messenger RNA. This conversion requires dynamic structural changes in chromatin and assembly of general transcription factors (GTFs) and RNA polymerase II at core promoter sequence elements surrounding the transcription start site of genes. One hallmark of transcriptional activation is the interaction of DNA-bound activators with coactivators such as the TATA-box binding protein (TBP)-associated factors (TAF(II)s) within the GTF TFIID. TAF(II)250 possesses a variety of activities that are likely to contribute to the initial steps of RNA polymerase II transcription. TAF(II)250 is a scaffold for assembly of other TAF(II)s and TBP into TFIID, TAF(II)250 binds activators to recruit TFIID to particular promoters, TAF(II)250 regulates binding of TBP to DNA, TAF(II)250 binds core promoter initiator elements, TAF(II)250 binds acetylated lysine residues in core histones, and TAF(II)250 possesses protein kinase, ubiquitin-activating/conjugating and acetylase activities that modify histones and GTFs. We speculate that these activities achieve two goals--(1) they aid in positioning and stabilizing TFIID at particular promoters, and (2) they alter chromatin structure at the promoter to allow assembly of GTFs--and we propose a model for how TAF(II)250 converts activation signals into active transcription.
The coactivator dTAF(II)110/hTAF(II)135 is sufficient to recruit a polymerase complex and activate basal transcription mediated by CREB.	A specific TATA binding protein-associated factor (TAF), dTAF(II)110/hTAF(II)135, interacts with cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) through its constitutive activation domain (CAD), which recruits a polymerase complex and activates transcription. The simplest explanation is that the TAF is a coactivator, but several studies have questioned this role of TAFs. Using a reverse two-hybrid analysis in yeast, we previously mapped the interaction between dTAF(II)110 (amino acid 1-308) and CREB to conserved hydrophobic amino acid residues in the CAD. That mapping was possible only because CREB fails to activate transcription in yeast, where all TAFs are conserved, except for the TAF recognizing CREB. To test whether CREB fails to activate transcription in yeast because it lacks a coactivator, we fused dTAF(II)110 (amino acid 1-308) to the TATA binding protein domain of the yeast scaffolding TAF, yTAF(II)130. Transformation of yeast with this hybrid TAF conferred activation by the CAD, indicating that interaction with yTFIID is sufficient to recruit a polymerase complex and activate transcription. The hybrid TAF did not mediate activation by VP16 or vitamin D receptor, each of which interacts with TFIIB, but not with dTAF(II)110 (amino acid 1-308). Enhancement of transcription activation by dTAF(II)110 in mammalian cells required interaction with both the CAD and TFIID and was inhibited by mutation of core hydrophobic residues in the CAD. These data demonstrate that dTAF(II)110/hTAF(II)135 acts as a coactivator to recruit TFIID and polymerase and that this mechanism of activation is conserved in eukaryotes.
A role for coactivators and histone acetylation in estrogen receptor alpha-mediated transcription initiation.	Transcriptional regulation by estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) involves protein-protein interactions among the receptor, its associated coactivators and the RNA polymerase II transcriptional machinery. We have used an in vitro chromatin assembly and transcription system to examine the biochemistry of interactions among ERalpha, the SRC proteins and p300/CBP. Using polypeptides designed to block specific receptor- cofactor or cofactor-cofactor interactions, we show that interactions among ERalpha, its coactivators and the RNA pol II machinery are all required for ERalpha- mediated transcription. Furthermore, we show that ERalpha-SRC-p300/CBP interactions are necessary and sufficient for the targeted acetylation of nucleosomal histones on estrogen-responsive promoters in the absence of transcription. The protein-protein interactions required for histone acetylation constitute a subset of the interactions required for transcriptional activation. Finally, we show that the major role of SRC-p300/CBP interactions is to enhance ERalpha- mediated transcription initiation, and they have little or no role in stimulating subsequent rounds of transcription. Together, our results indicate a specific role for the SRC and p300/CBP coactivators, as well as targeted histone acetylation, in ERalpha-mediated transcription.
Drosophila ELL is associated with actively elongating RNA polymerase II on transcriptionally active sites in vivo.	Several factors have been biochemically characterized based on their ability to increase the overall rate of transcription elongation catalyzed by the multiprotein complex RNA polymerase II (Pol II). Among these, the ELL family of elongation factors has been shown to increase the catalytic rate of transcription elongation in vitro by suppressing transient pausing. Several fundamental biological aspects of this class of elongation factors are not known. We have cloned the Drosophila homolog (dELL) in order to test whether ELL family proteins are actually associated with the elongating Pol II in vivo. Here we report that dELL is a nuclear protein, which, like its mammalian homologs, can increase the catalytic rate of transcription elongation by Pol II in vitro. Interestingly, we find that dELL co-localizes extensively with the phosphorylated, actively elongating form of Pol II at transcriptionally active sites on Drosophila polytene chromosomes. Furthermore, dELL is relocalized from a widespread distribution pattern on polytenes under normal conditions to very few transcriptionally active puff sites upon heat shock. This observation indicates a dynamic pattern of localization of dELL in cells, which is a predicted characteristic of a Pol II general elongation factor. We also demonstrate that dELL physically interacts with Pol II. Our results strongly suggest that dELL functions with elongating RNA polymerase II in vivo.
Characterization of a six-subunit holo-elongator complex required for the regulated expression of a group of genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The Elongator complex associated with elongating RNA polymerase II in Saccharomyces cerevisiae was originally reported to have three subunits, Elp1, Elp2, and Elp3. Using the tandem affinity purification (TAP) procedure, we have purified a six-subunit yeast Holo-Elongator complex containing three additional polypeptides, which we have named Elp4, Elp5, and Elp6. TAP tapping and subsequent purification of any one of the six subunits result in the isolation of all six components. Purification of Elongator in higher salt concentrations served to demonstrate that the complex could be separated into two subcomplexes: one consisted of Elp1, -2, and -3, and the other consisted of Elp4, -5, and -6. Deletions of the individual genes encoding the new Elongator subunits showed that only the ELP5 gene is essential for growth. Disruption of the two nonessential new Elongator-encoding genes, ELP4 and ELP6, caused the same phenotypes observed with knockouts of the original Elongator-encoding genes. Results of microarray analyses demonstrated that the gene expression profiles of strains containing deletions of genes encoding subunits of either Elongator subcomplex, in which we detected significantly altered mRNA expression levels for 96 genes, are very similar, implying that all the Elongator subunits likely function together to regulate a group of S. cerevisiae genes in vivo.
Transcriptional induction of MKP-1 in response to stress is associated with histone H3 phosphorylation-acetylation.	Mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase phosphatase 1 (MKP-1) has been shown to play a critical role in mediating the feedback control of MAP kinase cascades in a variety of cellular processes, including proliferation and stress responsiveness. Although MKP-1 expression is induced by a broad array of extracellular stimuli, the mechanisms mediating its induction remain poorly understood. Here we show that MKP-1 mRNA was potently induced by arsenite and ultraviolet light and modestly increased by heat shock and hydrogen peroxide. Interestingly, arsenite also dramatically induces phosphorylation-acetylation of histone H3 at a global level which precedes the induction of MKP-1 mRNA. The transcriptional induction of MKP-1, histone H3 modification, and elevation in MKP-1 mRNA in response to arsenite are all partially prevented by the p38 MAP kinase inhibitor SB203580, suggesting that the p38 pathway is involved in these processes. Finally, analysis of the DNA brought down by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) reveals that arsenite induces phosphorylation-acetylation of histone H3 associated with the MKP-1 gene and enhances binding of RNA polymerase II to MKP-1 chromatin. ChIP assays following exposure to other stress agents reveal various degrees of histone H3 modification at the MKP-1 chromatin. The differential contribution of p38 and ERK MAP kinases in mediating MKP-1 induction by different stress agents further illustrates the complexity and versatility of stress-induced MKP-1 expression. Our results strongly suggest that chromatin remodeling after stress contributes to the transcriptional induction of MKP-1.
Reconstitution of recombinant chromatin establishes a requirement for histone-tail modifications during chromatin assembly and transcription.	The human ISWI-containing factor RSF (remodeling and spacing factor) was found to mediate nucleosome deposition and, in the presence of ATP, generate regularly spaced nucleosome arrays. Using this system, recombinant chromatin was reconstituted with bacterially produced histones. Acetylation of the histone tails was found to play an important role in establishing regularly spaced nucleosome arrays. Recombinant chromatin lacking histone acetylation was impaired in directing transcription. Histone-tail modifications were found to regulate transcription from the recombinant chromatin. Acetylation of the histone tails by p300 was found to increase transcription. Methylation of the histone H3 tail by Suv39H1 was found to repress transcription in an HP1-dependent manner. The effects of histone-tail modifications were observed in nuclear extracts. A highly reconstituted RNA polymerase II transcription system was refractory to the effect imposed by acetylation and methylation.
Activator-mediated disruption of sequence-specific DNA contacts by the general transcription factor TFIIB.	The transcription factor TFIIB plays a central role in preinitiation complex assembly, providing a bridge between promoter-bound TFIID and RNA Polymerase II. TFIIB possesses sequence-specific DNA-binding ability and interacts with the TFIIB-recognition element (BRE), present in many promoters. Here we show that the BRE suppresses the basal level of transcription elicited by a core promoter, which increases the amplitude of transcriptional stimulation in the presence of an activator protein. Further, we find that an activator can disrupt the TFIIB-BRE interaction within a promoter-bound complex. Our results reveal a novel function for activators in the modulation of core promoter recognition by TFIIB.
Requirement for yeast RAD26, a homolog of the human CSB gene, in elongation by RNA polymerase II.	Mutations in the human CSB gene cause Cockayne syndrome (CS). In addition to increased photosensitivity, CS patients suffer from severe developmental abnormalities, including growth retardation and mental retardation. Whereas a deficiency in the preferential repair of UV lesions from the transcribed strand accounts for the increased photosensitivity of CS patients, the reason for developmental defects in these individuals has remained unclear. Here we provide in vivo evidence for a role of RAD26, the counterpart of the CSB gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, in transcription elongation by RNA polymerase II, and in addition we show that under conditions requiring rapid synthesis of new mRNAs, growth is considerably reduced in cells lacking RAD26. These findings implicate a role for CSB in transcription elongation, and they strongly suggest that impaired transcription elongation is the underlying cause of the developmental problems in CS patients.
RNA polymerase II and III transcription factors can stimulate DNA replication by modifying origin chromatin structures.	Many transcription factors are multifunctional and also influence DNA replication. So far, their mechanism of action has remained elusive. Here we show that a DNA-binding protein could rely on the same biochemical activity that activates transcription to stimulate replication from the yeast chromosomal ARS1 origin. Unexpectedly, the ability to stimulate replication from this origin was not restricted to polymerase II transcription factors, but was a property shared by polymerase III factors. Furthermore, activation of replication did not depend on the process of transcription, but rather on the ability of DNA-binding transcription factors to remodel chromatin. The natural ARS1 activator Abf1 and the other transcription factors that stimulated replication remodeled chromatin in a very similar manner. Moreover, the presence of a histone H3 mutant that was previously shown to generally increase transcription also facilitated replication from ARS1 and partially compensated for the absence of a transcription factor. We propose that multifunctional transcription factors work by influencing the chromatin architecture at replication origins so as to generate a structure that is favorable to the initiation of replication.
Transcription of potato spindle tuber viroid by RNA polymerase II starts predominantly at two specific sites.	Pospiviroidae, with their main representative potato spindle tuber viroid (PSTVd), are replicated via a rolling circle mechanism by the host-encoded DNA-dependent RNA polymerase II (pol II). In the first step, the (+)-strand circular viroid is transcribed into a (-)-strand oligomer intermediate. As yet it is not known whether transcription is initiated by promotors at specific start sites or is distributed non-specifically over the whole circle. An in vitro transcription extract was prepared from a non-infected potato cell culture which exhibited transcriptional activity using added circular PSTVd (+)-strand RNA as template. In accordance with pol II activity, transcription could be inhibited by alpha-amanitin. RT-PCR revealed the existence of at least two different start sites and primer extension identified these as nucleotides A(111) and A(325). The sequences of the first 7 nt transcribed are very similar, (105)GGAGCGA(111) and (319)GGGGCGA(325). GC-boxes are located at a distance of 15 and 16 nt upstream, respectively, in the native viroid structure, which may act to facilitate initiation. The GC-boxes may have a similar function to the GC-rich hairpin II in the (-)-strand intermediate, as described previously. The results are compared with the corresponding features of avocado sunblotch viroid, which belongs to a different family of viroids and exhibits different transcription initiation properties.
7SK small nuclear RNA binds to and inhibits the activity of CDK9/cyclin T complexes.	The transcription of eukaryotic protein-coding genes involves complex regulation of RNA polymerase (Pol) II activity in response to physiological conditions and developmental cues. One element of this regulation involves phosphorylation of the carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest polymerase subunit by a transcription elongation factor, P-TEFb, which comprises the kinase CDK9 and cyclin T1 or T2 (ref. 1). Here we report that in human HeLa cells more than half of the P-TEFb is sequestered in larger complexes that also contain 7SK RNA, an abundant, small nuclear RNA (snRNA) of hitherto unknown function. P-TEFb and 7SK associate in a specific and reversible manner. In contrast to the smaller P-TEFb complexes, which have a high kinase activity, the larger 7SK/P-TEFb complexes show very weak kinase activity. Inhibition of cellular transcription by chemical agents or ultraviolet irradiation trigger the complete disruption of the P-TEFb/7SK complex, and enhance CDK9 activity. The transcription-dependent interaction of P-TEFb with 7SK may therefore contribute to an important feedback loop modulating the activity of RNA Pol II.
Intrinsic transcript cleavage in yeast RNA polymerase II elongation complexes.	Transcript elongation can be interrupted by a variety of obstacles, including certain DNA sequences, DNA-binding proteins, chromatin, and DNA lesions. Bypass of many of these impediments is facilitated by elongation factor TFIIS through a mechanism that involves cleavage of the nascent transcript by the RNA polymerase II/TFIIS elongation complex. Highly purified yeast RNA polymerase II is able to perform transcript hydrolysis in the absence of TFIIS. The "intrinsic" cleavage activity is greatly stimulated at mildly basic pH and requires divalent cations. Both arrested and stalled complexes can carry out the intrinsic cleavage reaction, although not all stalled complexes are equally efficient at this reaction. Arrested complexes in which the nascent transcript was cleaved in the absence of TFIIS were reactivated to readthrough blocks to elongation. Thus, cleavage of the nascent transcript is sufficient for reactivating some arrested complexes. Small RNA products released following transcript cleavage in stalled ternary complexes differ depending upon whether the cleavage has been induced by TFIIS or has occurred in mildly alkaline conditions. In contrast, both intrinsic and TFIIS-induced small RNA cleavage products are very similar when produced from an arrested ternary complex. Although alpha-amanitin interferes with the transcript cleavage stimulated by TFIIS, it has little effect on the intrinsic cleavage reaction. A mutant RNA polymerase previously shown to be refractory to TFIIS-induced transcript cleavage is essentially identical to the wild type polymerase in all tested aspects of intrinsic cleavage.
Transcriptional elongation by RNA polymerase II and histone methylation.	mRNA synthesis in eukaryotic organisms is a key biological process that is regulated at multiple levels. From the covalent modifications of chromatin by a number of chromatin remodeling complexes during the initiation and activation steps of transcription to the processing of mRNA transcripts, a very large consortium of proteins and multiprotein complexes is critical for gene expression by RNA polymerase II. The list of proteins essential for the successful synthesis of mRNA continues to grow at a rapid pace. Recent advances in this area of research have been focused on transcription through chromatin. In this article, we will review the recent literature linking the key biochemical process of transcriptional elongation by RNA polymerase II to histone methylation by COMPASS, Dot1p, and Set2 methyltransferases.
Use of RNA interference to investigate gene function in the human filarial nematode parasite Brugia malayi.	We describe the successful use of the reverse genetic technique RNA interference (RNAi) to investigate gene function in the human filarial nematode parasite Brugia malayi. We used fluorescently labelled double stranded RNA (dsRNA) to demonstrate that 300 bp molecules are able to enter adult females in culture while they remain excluded from microfilariae (mf). We have developed an optimised microvolume culture system to allow the exposure of parasites to high concentrations of dsRNA for extended periods. Culturing of adult female parasites in this system for 24h does not significantly reduce parasite lifespan or mf release in culture. Three B. malayi genes, beta-tubulin (Bm-tub-1), RNA polymerase II large subunit (Bm-ama-1) and B. malayi mf sheath protein 1/mf22 (Bm-shp-1) were targeted by soaking adult female B. malayi in dsRNA complementary to these transcripts in the optimised culture system. Targeting of the two housekeeping genes Bm-tub-1 and Bm-ama-1 led to a reduction in the levels of their transcripts, as assessed by reverse transcriptase coupled PCR (RT-PCR), and resulted in parasite death in culture. In contrast, targeting of the Bm-shp-1 gene was not lethal to adult females in culture. A marked reduction in mf release was observed for shp-1 RNAi parasites compared to controls and in addition 50% of mf released did not have fully elongated sheaths. This "short" phenotype correlated with the loss of the stockpiled shp-1 transcript from developing mf in treated adult female gonads. From these data we conclude that RNAi may be a useful method for assessment of drug target potential of genes identified in filarial gene discovery projects.
New targets for viral cyclins.	It is now clear that viral cyclins have new functions that provide infected cells with additional stimuli that further activate cell cycle progression. These proteins resist the actions of cell cycle inhibitors, extend the range of cdk substrates, and as a consequence favor cell proliferation and virus propagation. Like some of the endogeneous cyclins, these viral proteins might have also important functions during transcriptional regulation. Binding to transcriptional regulator might enable the virus to target multiple functions of transcriptional activation and cell growth. Whether these effects have any physiological relevance during viral replication or cell transformation will be an important issue to address.
The role of the yeast cleavage and polyadenylation factor subunit Ydh1p/Cft2p in pre-mRNA 3'-end formation.	Cleavage and polyadenylation factor (CPF) is a multi-protein complex that functions in pre-mRNA 3'-end formation and in the RNA polymerase II (RNAP II) transcription cycle. Ydh1p/Cft2p is an essential component of CPF but its precise role in 3'-end processing remained unclear. We found that mutations in YDH1 inhibited both the cleavage and the polyadenylation steps of the 3'-end formation reaction in vitro. Recently, we demonstrated that an important function of CPF lies in the recognition of poly(A) site sequences and RNA binding analyses suggesting that Ydh1p/Cft2p interacts with the poly(A) site region. Here we show that mutant ydh1 strains are deficient in the recognition of the ACT1 cleavage site in vivo. The C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNAP II plays a major role in coupling 3'-end processing and transcription. We provide evidence that Ydh1p/Cft2p interacts with the CTD of RNAP II, several other subunits of CPF and with Pcf11p, a component of CF IA. We propose that Ydh1p/Cft2p contributes to the formation of important interaction surfaces that mediate the dynamic association of CPF with RNAP II, the recognition of poly(A) site sequences and the assembly of the polyadenylation machinery on the RNA substrate.
Nuclear distribution of Oct-4 transcription factor in transcriptionally active and inactive mouse oocytes and its relation to RNA polymerase II and splicing factors.	The intranuclear distribution of the transcription factor Oct-4, which is specifically expressed in totipotent mice stem and germ line cells, was studied in mouse oocytes using immunogold labeling/electron microscopy and immunofluorescence/confocal laser scanning microcopy. The localization of Oct-4 was studied in transcriptionally active (uni/bilaminar follicles) and inactive (antral follicles) oocytes. Additionally, the Oct-4 distribution was examined relative to that of the unphosphorylated form of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) and splicing factor (SC 35) in the intranuclear entities such as perichromatin fibrils (PFs), perichromatin granules (PGs), interchromatin granule clusters (IGCs), Cajal bodies (CBs), and nucleolus-like bodies (NLBs). It was shown that: (i) Oct-4 is localized in PFs, IGCs, and in the dense fibrillar component (DFC) of the nucleolus at the transcriptionally active stage of the oocyte nucleus; (ii) Oct-4 present in PFs and IGCs colocalizes with Pol II and SC 35 at the transcriptionally active stage; (iii) Oct-4 accumulates in NLBs, CBs, and PGs at the inert stage of the oocyte. The results confirm the previous suggestion that PFs represent the major nucleoplasmic structural domain involved in active pre-mRNA transcription/processing. The colocalization of Oct-4 with Pol II in both IGCs and PFs in active oocytes (uni/bilaminar follicles) suggests that Oct-4 is intimately associated with the Pol II holoenzyme before and during transcription. The colocalization of Oct-4, Pol II, and SC 35 with coilin-containing structures such as NLBs and CBs at the inert stage (antral follicles) suggests that the latter may represent storage sites for the transcription/splicing machinery during the decline of transcription.
Netropsin specifically enhances RNA polymerase II termination at terminator sites in vitro.	We describe an in vitro system that emulates the specific and efficient transcriptional termination associated with the human gastrin gene terminator in vivo. The system involves a dC-tailed DNA template containing the gastrin gene terminator sequence, purified RNA polymerase II, and purified elongation factor TFIIS. In this system, the basal level of termination by RNA polymerase II at the gastrin gene terminator is specifically enhanced by netropsin, an (A + T)-rich minor groove-binding peptide. This enhanced termination is maintained even with TFIIS, which normally suppresses termination at this site. In vitro termination is terminator sequence-specific. Mutant sequences that reduce or abolish termination in vivo show corresponding reductions in activity in the in vitro system. This in vitro emulation of in vivo activities of wild-type and mutant terminators strongly suggests that netropsin and a putative termination factor may share some aspects of their biochemical mechanisms. The general applicability of this system to the study of RNA polymerase II elongation and termination is suggested by the enhancement of termination seen at both the gastrin and human histone H3.3 gene terminators.
The interaction of RNA polymerase II with the adenovirus-2 major late promoter is precluded by phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain of subunit IIa.	Mammalian RNA polymerase II contains at the C terminus of its largest subunit an unusual domain consisting of 52 tandem repeats of the consensus sequence Tyr-Ser-Pro-Thr-Ser-Pro-Ser. The phosphorylation of this domain is thought to play an important role in the transition of RNA polymerase II from a preinitiation complex to an elongating complex. The unphosphorylated form of RNA polymerase II is designated IIA, whereas the phosphorylated form is designated IIO. In an effort to determine the consequence of C-terminal domain phosphorylation on complex formation, 32P-labeled RNA polymerases IIA and IIO were prepared and examined for their ability to form a stable preinitiation complex on the adenovirus-2 major late promoter in the presence of a reconstituted HeLa cell transcription extract. Preinitiation complexes were formed in the absence of ATP and purified from free RNA polymerase II by chromatography on Sepharose CL-4B. The state of phosphorylation of the largest subunit was monitored by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and the transcriptional activity was determined by assaying specific transcript formation upon the addition of nucleotides and a competing DNA template. RNA polymerase IIA was recovered in transcriptionally active complexes in reactions in which the input enzyme was RNA polymerase IIA. In reactions with RNA polymerase IIO as the input enzyme, no IIO was recovered in excluded fractions that normally contain preinitiation complex. In reactions with equimolar amounts of RNA polymerases IIO and IIA, purified preinitiation complexes contained almost exclusively RNA polymerase HA. These results support the idea that RNA polymerase II containing an unphosphorylated C-terminal domain preferentially associates with the adenovirus-2 major late promoter. The state of phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain can, therefore, directly influence preinitiation complex formation. We also report here the presence of an activity in HeLa cell extracts that catalyzes dephosphorylation of the C-terminal domain, thereby converting RNA polymerase IIO to IIA. This C-terminal domain phosphatase is specific in that it does not catalyze the dephosphorylation of a serine residue phosphorylated by casein kinase II. The presence of a C-terminal domain phosphatase in in vitro transcription reactions containing RNA polymerase IIO results in the formation of RNA polymerase IIA. This RNA polymerase IIA associates preferentially with preinitiation complexes.
Stability of Drosophila RNA polymerase II elongation complexes in vitro.	We show that nuclear extract from Drosophila Kc cells supports efficient elongation by RNA polymerase II initiated from the actin 5C promoter. The addition of 0.3% Sarkosyl, 1 mg of heparin per ml, or 250 mM KCl immediately after initiation has two effects. First, the elongation rate is reduced 80 to 90% as a result of the inhibition of elongation factors. Second, there is an increase in the amount of long runoff RNA, suggesting that there is an early block to elongation that is relieved by the disruptive reagents. Consistent with the first effect, we find that the ability of factor 5 (TFIIF) to stimulate the elongation rate is inhibited by the disruptive agents when assayed in a defined system containing pure RNA polymerase II and a dC-tailed template. The disruptive agents also inhibit the ability of DmS-II to suppress transcriptional pausing but only slightly reduce the ability of DmS-II to increase the elongation rate twofold. The pause sites encountered by RNA polymerase II after initiation at a promoter and subsequent treatment with the disruptive reagents are also recognized by pure polymerase transcribing a dC-tailed template. It has been suggested that 5,6-dichloro-1-beta-D-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole inhibits RNA polymerase II during elongation, but we find that the purine nucleoside analog has no effect on elongation complexes containing RNA over 500 nucleotides in length or on the action of factor 5 or DmS-II in the defined system.
Dissecting transcription-coupled and global genomic repair in the chromatin of yeast GAL1-10 genes.	Transcription-coupled repair (TCR) and global genomic repair (GGR) of UV-induced cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers were investigated in the yeast GAL1-10 genes. Both Rpb9- and Rad26-mediated TCR are confined to the transcribed strands, initiating at upstream sites approximately 100 nucleotides from the upstream activating sequence shared by the two genes. However, TCR initiation sites do not correlate with either transcription start sites or TATA boxes. Rad16-mediated GGR tightly correlates with nucleosome positioning when the genes are repressed and are slow in the nucleosome core and fast in linker DNA. Induction of transcription enhanced GGR in nucleosome core DNA, especially in the nucleosomes around and upstream of the transcription start sites. Furthermore, when the genes were induced, GGR was slower in the transcribed regions than in the upstream regions. Finally, simultaneous deletion of RAD16, RAD26, and RPB9 resulted in no detectable repair in all sites along the region analyzed. Our results suggest that (a). TCR may be initiated by a transcription activator, presumably through the loading of RNA polymerase II, rather than by transcription initiation or elongation per se; (b). TCR and nucleosome disruption-enhanced GGR are the major causes of rapid repair in regions around and upstream of transcription start sites; (c). transcription machinery may hinder access of NER factors to a DNA lesion in the absence of a transcription-repair coupling factor; and (d). other than GGR mediated by Rad16 and TCR mediated by Rad26 and Rpb9, no other nucleotide excision repair pathway exists in these RNA polymerase II-transcribed genes.
Bortezomib and flavopiridol interact synergistically to induce apoptosis in chronic myeloid leukemia cells resistant to imatinib mesylate through both Bcr/Abl-dependent and -independent mechanisms.	Interactions between the cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor flavopiridol and the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib were examined in Bcr/Abl(+) human leukemia cells. Coexposure of K562 or LAMA84 cells to subtoxic concentration of flavopiridol (150-200 nM) and bortezomib (5-8 nM) resulted in a synergistic increase in mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis. These events were associated with a marked diminution in nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB)/DNA binding activity; enhanced phosphorylation of SEK1/MKK4 (stress-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-related kinase 1/mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK); down-regulation of Bcr/Abl; and a marked reduction in signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and STAT5 activity. In imatinib mesylate-resistant K562 cells displaying increased Bcr/Abl expression, bortezomib/flavopiridol treatment markedly increased apoptosis in association with down-regulation of Bcr/Abl and BclxL, and diminished phosphorylation of Lyn, Hck, CrkL, and Akt. Parallel studies were performed in imatinib mesylate-resistant LAMA84 cells exhibiting reduced expression of Bcr/Abl but a marked increase in expression/activation of Lyn and Hck. Flavopiridol/bortezomib effectively induced apoptosis in these cells in association with Lyn and Hck inactivation. The capacity of flavopiridol to promote bortezomib-mediated Bcr/Abl down-regulation and apoptosis was mimicked by the positive transcription elongation factor-b (P-TEFb) inhibitor DRB (5,6-dichloro 1-beta-d-ribofuranosylbenzinida-sole). Finally, the bortezomib/flavopiridol regimen also potently induced apoptosis in Bcr/Abl(-) human leukemia cells. Collectively, these findings suggest that a strategy combining flavopiridol and bortezomib warrants further examination in chronic myelogenous leukemia and related hematologic malignancies.
Dynamics of coilin in Cajal bodies of the Xenopus germinal vesicle.	Cajal bodies (CBs) are complex organelles found in the nuclei of a wide variety of organisms, including vertebrates, invertebrates, plants, and yeast. In most cell types CBs are <1 microm in diameter, severely limiting the range of experimental observations that can be made on them. By contrast, CBs in the amphibian oocyte nucleus (also called the germinal vesicle) are 2-10 microm in diameter. We have taken advantage of this large size to carry out kinetic studies on coilin, a protein that is specifically enriched in CBs. We labeled coilin with photoactivatable green fluorescent protein and analyzed the movement of the protein by confocal microscopy in unfixed germinal vesicles isolated in oil. We showed that coilin leaves the CB relatively slowly (minutes rather than seconds) with kinetics similar to earlier measurements on its entrance. We also showed that coilin diffuses very slowly within the CB, consistent with its being in a large macromolecular complex. Finally, we found that the movement of coilin is not directly affected by the transcriptional state of the nucleus or ongoing nucleocytoplasmic exchange. These data on the kinetics of coilin reinforce the conclusion that CB components are in a constant state of flux, consistent with models that postulate an active role for CBs in nuclear physiology.
Characterization of a novel RNA polymerase II arrest site which lacks a weak 3' RNA-DNA hybrid.	Transcript elongation by RNA polymerase II is blocked at DNA sequences called arrest sites. An exceptionally weak RNA-DNA hybrid is often thought to be necessary at the point of arrest. We have identified an arrest site from the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene which does not fit this pattern. Transcription of many sequence variants of this site shows that the RNA-DNA hybrid over the three bases immediately preceding the major arrest point may be strong (i.e. C:G) without interfering with arrest. However, arrest at the TH site requires the presence of a pyrimidine at the 3' end and arrest increases when the 3'-most segment is pyrimidine rich. We also demonstrated that arrest at the TH site is completely dependent on the presence of a purine-rich element immediately upstream of the RNA-DNA hybrid. Thus, the RNA polymerase II arrest element from the TH gene has several unanticipated characteristics: arrest is independent of a weak RNA-DNA hybrid at the 3' end of the transcript, but it requires both a pyrimidine at the 3' end and a polypurine element upstream of the RNA-DNA hybrid.
Human Spt6 stimulates transcription elongation by RNA polymerase II in vitro.	Recent studies have suggested that Spt6 participates in the regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II (RNAPII). However, its underlying mechanism remains largely unknown. One possibility, which is supported by genetic and biochemical studies of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is that Spt6 affects chromatin structure. Alternatively, Spt6 directly controls transcription by binding to the transcription machinery. In this study, we establish that human Spt6 (hSpt6) is a classic transcription elongation factor that enhances the rate of RNAPII elongation. hSpt6 is capable of stimulating transcription elongation both individually and in concert with DRB sensitivity-inducing factor (DSIF), comprising human Spt5 and human Spt4. We also provide evidence showing that hSpt6 interacts with RNAPII and DSIF in human cells. Thus, in vivo, hSpt6 may regulate multiple steps of mRNA synthesis through its interaction with histones, elongating RNAPII, and possibly other components of the transcription machinery.
Identification of peptides mimicking the ligands of proteins phosphorylated by protein kinase CK2.	Synthetic peptides containing a phosphorylation site for protein kinase CK2 were used to investigate their binding properties to other peptides/proteins. The aim of this work was to find an efficient procedure to search for these peptide/protein ligands. The goal was successfully achieved through screening of random peptide libraries displayed on phage. Peptides corresponding to the amino terminal region of topoisomerase I were synthesized in both phosphorylated and unphosphorylated form and used to screen the libraries. Four of the selected sequences were also tested for their reactivity with synthetic peptides corresponding to the carboxy terminal region of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II. The positive reaction detected supports the hypothesis that the isolated sequences may represent mimics of ligands of proteins phosphorylated by protein kinase CK2.
The Caenorhabditis elegans ortholog of TRAP240, CeTRAP240/let-19, selectively modulates gene expression and is essential for embryogenesis.	Mediator complexes are large multiprotein assemblies that function in the regulation of eukaryotic gene transcription. In yeast, certain mediator subunits appear to comprise a subcomplex that acts in the regulation of a specific subset of genes. We investigated in a metazoan, Caenorhabditis elegans, the roles and interactions of two of those subunits, CeTRAP240/let-19 and CeTRAP230/dpy-22. We found that CeTRAP240/let-19 contains four domains that are conserved in the human TRAP240 protein and that one of those domains displays intrinsic transcriptional repression activity. Using RNA interference, we found that reduced expression of CeTRAP240/let-19 displayed a high penetrance of embryonic lethality in F1 progeny; animals that escaped embryonic arrest showed mutant phenotypes such as burst vulva and molting defects. CeTRAP240/let-19 appeared to affect specific genes, as CeTRAP240/let-19(RNAi) led to selectively reduced expression of a subset of reporter genes examined. Genetic experiments supported the view that CeTRAP240/let-19 and CeTRAP230/dpy-22, like their Drosophila and yeast counterparts, can operate on common pathways. Thus, a male tail phenotype caused by the pal-1(e2091) mutation was suppressed not only by CeTRAP230/dpy-22 mutants, as reported previously, but also by reduced expression of CeTRAP240/let-19. Additionally, CeTRAP240/let-19(RNAi) in a CeTRAP230/dpy-22 mutant background produced a strong synthetic lethal phenotype. Overall, our results establish specific roles of CeTRAP240/let-19 in C. elegans embryonic development and a functional interaction between CeTRAP240/let-19 and CeTRAP230/dpy-22. Interestingly, whereas this interaction has been conserved from yeast to mammals, the subcomplex modulates metazoan-specific genetic pathways, likely in addition to those also controlled in yeast.
Flavopiridol enhances human tumor cell radiosensitivity and prolongs expression of gammaH2AX foci.	Flavopiridol is a cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor, which has recently entered clinical trials. However, when administered as a single agent against solid tumors, the antitumor actions of flavopiridol have been primarily cytostatic. Given its reported effects on cell cycle regulation, transcription, and apoptosis, flavopiridol may also influence cellular radioresponse. Thus, to evaluate the potential for combining this cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor with radiation as a cancer treatment strategy, we have investigated the effects of flavopiridol on the radiation sensitivity of two human prostate cancer cell lines (DU145 and PC3). The data presented here indicate that exposure to flavopiridol (60-90 nM) after irradiation enhanced the radiosensitivity of both DU145 and PC3 cells. This sensitization occurred in the absence of significant reductions in cell proliferation, retinoblastoma protein phosphorylation, or P-TEFb activity. Moreover, the post-irradiation addition of flavopiridol had no effect on radiation-induced apoptosis or the activation of the G2 cell cycle checkpoint. However, flavopiridol did modify the time course of gammaH2AX expression in irradiated cells. Whereas there was no significant difference in radiation-induced gammaH2AX foci at 6 h, at 24 h after irradiation, the number of cells expressing gammaH2AX foci was significantly greater in the flavopiridol-treated cells. These results indicate that flavopiridol can enhance radiosensitivity of human tumor cells and suggest that this effect may involve an inhibition of DNA repair.
BRCA1 cooperates with NUFIP and P-TEFb to activate transcription by RNA polymerase II.	The tumor suppressor gene product BRCA1 is a component of the RNA polymerase II (pol II) holoenzyme that is involved, through binding to various regulatory proteins, in either activation or repression of transcription. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen, we have identified a human zinc-finger-containing protein NUFIP that interacts with BRCA1. The ubiquitous, stably expressed, nuclear protein NUFIP specifically stimulates activator-independent pol II transcription in vitro and in vivo. Immunodepletion of the endogenous NUFIP causes a marked decrease of pol II transcription, which is then shown to be restored by stable complex of ectopically produced NUFIP and associated factors. NUFIP not only interacts with BRCA1 but also associates with the positive elongation factor P-TEFb through interaction with the regulatory Cyclin T1 subunit. Cyclin T1 is required for BRCA1- and NUFIP-dependent synergistic activation of pol II transcription in 293 cells. Mutation of the zinc-finger domain abolishes the NUFIP-mediated transcriptional activation. We show that NUFIP is associated with preinitiation complexes, open transcription complexes, and elongation complexes. In addition, NUFIP facilitates ATP-dependent dissociation of hyperphosphorylated pol II from open transcription complexes in vitro.
MAZ elements alter transcription elongation and silencing of the fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 exon IIIb.	The fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) gene exons IIIb and IIIc are alternatively spliced in a mutually exclusive and cell type-specific manner. FGFR2 exon choice depends on both activation and silencing. Exon IIIb silencing requires cis-acting elements upstream and downstream of the exon. To examine the influence of transcription on exon IIIb silencing, the putative RNA polymerase II (RNAPII)-pausing MAZ4 element was inserted at different positions within the FGFR2 minigene construct. MAZ4 insertions 5' to the upstream silencing elements or between exon IIIb and downstream silencing elements result in decreased silencing. An insertion 3' of the downstream silencing elements, however, has no effect on splicing. An RT-PCR elongation assay shows that the MAZ4 site in these constructs is likely to be a RNAPII pause site. Insertion of another RNAPII pause site into the minigene has a similar effect on exon IIIb silencing. Transfection of in vitro transcribed RNA demonstrates that the cell type specificity of FGFR2 alternative splicing requires co-transcriptional splicing. Additionally, changing the promoter alters both FGFR2 minigene splicing and the MAZ4 effect. We propose that RNAPII pauses at the MAZ4 elements resulting in a change in the transcription elongation complex that influences alternative splicing decisions downstream.
DNA damage-induced Def1-RNA polymerase II interaction and Def1 requirement for polymerase ubiquitylation in vitro.	UV-induced DNA damage results in ubiquitylation and degradation of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII). In yeast, this requires the DEF1 gene, the product of which forms a complex with the transcription-coupling repair factor, Rad26. However, whether Def1 is directly involved in RNAPII ubiquitylation has remained unclear. Here we report the establishment of a reconstituted system for studying UV-induced RNAPII ubiquitylation, which mimics the known requirements for this process in vitro. Using this system, we show that Def1 is indeed directly required for RNAPII ubiquitylation. Moreover, Def1 interacts with RNAPII in a damage-dependent manner. These results support a model in which Def1 interacts with RNAPII in response to DNA damage, recruiting the ubiquitylation machinery to enable its modification and subsequent degradation.
Promoter-binding and repression of PDGFRB by c-Myc are separable activities.	The c-Myc transcription factor represses the mRNA expression of the platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta gene (PDGFRB). Using chromatin immunoprecipitation, we show that c-Myc binds to the proximal promoter of the PDGFRB gene in proliferating rat fibroblasts. Interestingly, mutant c-Myc proteins that are unable to repress PDGFRB gene expression, c-Myc(dBR) and c-Myc(d106-143), are still able to bind to the promoter in vivo. Hence, promoter-binding and repression of PDGFRB by c-Myc are separable activities. We also show that Myc repression of PDGFRB is not dependent on previously described or known transactivator-binding regions, suggesting Myc may be recruited to the promoter by multiple or yet unidentified transcription factors. In the presence of intact promoter-binding by Myc, trichostatin A (TSA) can block Myc repression of PDGFRB in vivo, again demonstrating that promoter-binding and repression are separable. Taken together, we hypothesize that Myc repression of PDGFRB expression occurs by a multi-step mechanism in which repression is initiated after Myc is recruited to the promoter.
Identification of cis elements directing termination of yeast nonpolyadenylated snoRNA transcripts.	RNA polymerase II (Pol II) termination is triggered by sequences present in the nascent transcript. Termination of pre-mRNA transcription is coupled to recognition of cis-acting sequences that direct cleavage and polyadenylation of the pre-mRNA. Termination of nonpolyadenylated [non-poly(A)] Pol II transcripts in Saccharomyces cerevisiae requires the RNA-binding proteins Nrd1 and Nab3. We have used a mutational strategy to characterize non-poly(A) termination elements downstream of the SNR13 and SNR47 snoRNA genes. This approach detected two common RNA sequence motifs, GUA[AG] and UCUU. The first motif corresponds to the known Nrd1-binding site, which we have verified here by gel mobility shift assays. We also show that Nab3 protein binds specifically to RNA containing the UCUU motif. Taken together, our data suggest that Nrd1 and Nab3 binding sites play a significant role in defining non-poly(A) terminators. As is the case with poly(A) terminators, there is no strong consensus for non-poly(A) terminators, and the arrangement of Nrd1p and Nab3p binding sites varies considerably. In addition, the organization of these sequences is not strongly conserved among even closely related yeasts. This indicates a large degree of genetic variability. Despite this variability, we were able to use a computational model to show that the binding sites for Nrd1 and Nab3 can identify genes for which transcription termination is mediated by these proteins.
Interaction between transcription elongation factors and mRNA 3'-end formation at the Saccharomyces cerevisiae GAL10-GAL7 locus.	Spt6 is a conserved transcription factor that associates with RNA polymerase II (pol II) during elongation. Spt6 is essential for viability in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and regulates chromatin structure during pol II transcription. Here we present evidence that mutations that impair Spt6, a second elongation factor, Spt4, and pol II can affect 3'-end formation at GAL10. Additional analysis suggests that Spt6 is required for cotranscriptional association of the factor Ctr9, a member of the Paf1 complex, with GAL10 and GAL7, and that Ctr9 association with chromatin 3' of GAL10 is regulated by the GAL10 polyadenylation signal. Overall, these results provide new evidence for a connection between the transcription elongation factor Spt6 and 3'-end formation in vivo.
Dynamic histone modifications mark sex chromosome inactivation and reactivation during mammalian spermatogenesis.	Based on the formation of the XY body at pachytene and expression studies of a few X-linked genes, the X and Y chromosomes seem to undergo transcriptional inactivation during mammalian spermatogenesis. However, the extent and the mechanism of X and Y inactivation are not known. Here, we show that both the X and Y chromosomes undergo sequential changes in their histone modifications beginning at the pachytene stage of meiosis. These changes usually are associated with transcriptional inactivation in somatic cells, and they coincide with the exclusion of the phosphorylated (active) form of RNA polymerase II from the XY body. Both sex chromosomes undergo extensive deacetylation at histones H3 and H4 and (di)methylation of lysine (K)9 on histone H3; however, there are no changes in H3-K4 methylation. These changes persist even when the XY body disappears in late pachytene, and the X and Y chromosomes segregate from one another after the first meiotic division. By the spermatid stage, histone modifications of the X and Y chromosomes revert to those of active chromatin and RNA polymerase II reengages with both chromosomes. Our observations indicate that X and Y inactivation is extensive and persists even when the X and Y chromosomes are separated in secondary spermatocytes. These findings provide insights into epigenetic programming and chromatin dynamics in the male germ line.
Transcriptional activity and substrate recognition of cyclin T2 from P-TEFb.	Transcriptional elongation by RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) is regulated by the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb), which contains Cdk9 and a C-type cyclin (CycT1, CycT2a, CycT2b, or CycK). Whereas their N-terminal cylin boxes are almost identical, the C-terminal sequences of CycT1 and CycT2 are divergent. Previously, a histidine-rich stretch in CycT1 was found to bind the CTD of RNAPII and direct the transcriptional activity of this P-TEFb complex when tethered artificially to DNA. The global repressor PIE-1 from C. elegans blocked its effects. In this study, C-terminal truncations of CycT2 past its histidine-rich stretch, to a leucine-rich region next to its cyclin boxes, still maintained appreciable transcriptional activity. Moreover, this domain bound RNAPII via its CTD and PIE-1 blocked its effects. Thus, CycT2 not only contains two domains that target RNAPII but this substrate recognition is necessary for its transcriptional activity via DNA.
Coordination of transcription factor phosphorylation and histone methylation by the P-TEFb kinase during human immunodeficiency virus type 1 transcription.	The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) Tat protein recruits positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) to the transactivation response (TAR) RNA structure to facilitate formation of processive transcription elongation complexes (TECs). Here we examine the role of the Tat/TAR-specified cyclin-dependent kinase 9 (CDK9) kinase activity in regulation of HIV-1 transcription elongation and histone methylation. In HIV-1 TECs, P-TEFb phosphorylates the RNA polymerase II (RNAP II) carboxyl-terminal domain (CTD) and the transcription elongation factors SPT5 and Tat-SF1 in a Tat/TAR-dependent manner. Using in vivo chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis, we demonstrate the following distinct properties of the HIV-1 transcription complexes. First, the RNAP II CTD is phosphorylated at Ser 2 and Ser 5 near the promoter and at downstream coding regions. Second, the stable association of SPT5 with the TECs is dependent upon P-TEFb kinase activity. Third, P-TEFb kinase activity is critical for the induction of methylation of histone H3 at lysine 4 and lysine 36 on HIV-1 genes. Flavopiridol, a potent P-TEFb kinase inhibitor, inhibits CTD phosphorylation, stable SPT5 binding, and histone methylation, suggesting that its potent antiviral activity is due to its ability to inhibit several critical and unique steps in HIV-1 transcription elongation.
The yeast Rat1 exonuclease promotes transcription termination by RNA polymerase II.	The carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of the RNA polymerase II (RNApII) largest subunit consists of multiple heptapeptide repeats with the consensus sequence YSPTSPS. Different CTD phosphorylation patterns act as recognition sites for the binding of various messenger RNA processing factors, thereby coupling transcription and mRNA processing. Polyadenylation factors are co-transcriptionally recruited by phosphorylation of CTD serine 2 (ref. 2) and these factors are also required for transcription termination. RNApII transcribes past the poly(A) site, the RNA is cleaved by the polyadenylation machinery, and the RNA downstream of the cleavage site is degraded. Here we show that Rtt103 and the Rat1/Rai1 5' --> 3' exonuclease are localized at 3' ends of protein coding genes. In rat1-1 or rai1Delta cells, RNA 3' to polyadenylation sites is greatly stabilized and termination defects are seen at many genes. These findings support a model in which poly(A) site cleavage and subsequent degradation of the 3'-downstream RNA by Rat1 trigger transcription termination.
Human 5' --> 3' exonuclease Xrn2 promotes transcription termination at co-transcriptional cleavage sites.	Eukaryotic protein-encoding genes possess poly(A) signals that define the end of the messenger RNA and mediate downstream transcriptional termination by RNA polymerase II (Pol II). Termination could occur through an 'anti-termination' mechanism whereby elongation factors dissociate when the poly(A) signal is encountered, producing termination-competent Pol II. An alternative 'torpedo' model postulated that poly(A) site cleavage provides an unprotected RNA 5' end that is degraded by 5' --> 3' exonuclease activities (torpedoes) and so induces dissociation of Pol II from the DNA template. This model has been questioned because unprocessed transcripts read all the way to the site of transcriptional termination before upstream polyadenylation. However, nascent transcripts located 1 kilobase downstream of the human beta-globin gene poly(A) signal are associated with a co-transcriptional cleavage (CoTC) activity that acts with the poly(A) signal to elicit efficient transcriptional termination. The CoTC sequence is an autocatalytic RNA structure that undergoes rapid self-cleavage. Here we show that CoTC acts as a precursor to termination by presenting a free RNA 5' end that is recognized by the human 5' --> 3' exonuclease Xrn2. Degradation of the downstream cleavage product by Xrn2 results in transcriptional termination, as envisaged in the torpedo model.
Amino acid substitutions in yeast TFIIF confer upstream shifts in transcription initiation and altered interaction with RNA polymerase II.	Transcription factor IIF (TFIIF) is required for transcription of protein-encoding genes by eukaryotic RNA polymerase II. In contrast to numerous studies establishing a role for higher eukaryotic TFIIF in multiple steps of the transcription cycle, relatively little has been reported regarding the functions of TFIIF in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In this study, site-directed mutagenesis, plasmid shuffle complementation assays, and primer extension analyses were employed to probe the functional domains of the S. cerevisiae TFIIF subunits Tfg1 and Tfg2. Analyses of 35 Tfg1 alanine substitution mutants and 19 Tfg2 substitution mutants identified 5 mutants exhibiting altered properties in vivo. Primer extension analyses revealed that the conditional growth properties exhibited by the tfg1-E346A, tfg1-W350A, and tfg2-L59K mutants were associated with pronounced upstream shifts in transcription initiation in vivo. Analyses of double mutant strains demonstrated functional interactions between the Tfg1 mutations and mutations in Tfg2, TFIIB, and RNA polymerase II. Importantly, biochemical results demonstrated an altered interaction between mutant TFIIF protein and RNA polymerase II. These results provide direct evidence for the involvement of S. cerevisiae TFIIF in the mechanism of transcription start site utilization and support the view that a TFIIF-RNA polymerase II interaction is a determinant in this process.
Small molecule transcription factor mimic.	Regulation of gene expression by transcription factors touches many aspects of eukaryotic biology, and its systematic, external control by organic molecules represents a challenge in chemistry. Here we report the design of a completely organic, nonpeptidic compound that mimics a transcription factor. The design takes advantage of the specific DNA-binding affinity of a hairpin polyamide molecule and the ability of wrenchnolol to bind to the Sur-2 subunit of human mediator complex. The hybrid compound of these two molecules activates transcription of a reporter gene in vitro in a promoter-dependent manner through simultaneous contacts with DNA and Sur-2. Our results indicate that it is possible to generate a transcription factor out of nonpeptidic components.
The human DiGeorge syndrome critical region gene 8 and Its D. melanogaster homolog are required for miRNA biogenesis.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) represent a family of small noncoding RNAs that are found in plants and animals (for recent reviews, see ). miRNAs are expressed in a developmentally and tissue-specific manner and regulate the translational efficiency and stability of partial or fully sequence-complementary mRNAs. miRNAs are excised in a stepwise process from double-stranded RNA precursors that are embedded in long RNA polymerase II primary transcripts (pri-miRNA). Drosha RNase III catalyzes the first excision event, the release in the nucleus of a hairpin RNA (pre-miRNA), which is followed by export of the pre-miRNA to the cytoplasm and further processing by Dicer to mature miRNAs. Here, we characterize the human DGCR8, the DiGeorge syndrome critical region gene 8, and its Drosophila melanogaster homolog. We provide biochemical and cell-based readouts to demonstrate the requirement of DGCR8 for the maturation of miRNA primary transcripts. RNAi knockdown experiments of fly and human DGCR8 resulted in accumulation of pri-miRNAs and reduction of pre-miRNAs and mature miRNAs. Our results suggest that DGCR8 and Drosha interact in human cells and reside in a functional pri-miRNA processing complex.
Condensed mitotic chromatin is accessible to transcription factors and chromatin structural proteins.	During mitosis, chromosomes are highly condensed and transcription is silenced globally. One explanation for transcriptional repression is the reduced accessibility of transcription factors. To directly test this hypothesis and to investigate the dynamics of mitotic chromatin, we evaluate the exchange kinetics of several RNA polymerase I transcription factors and nucleosome components on mitotic chromatin in living cells. We demonstrate that these factors rapidly exchange on and off ribosomal DNA clusters and that the kinetics of exchange varies at different phases of mitosis. In addition, the nucleosome component H1c-GFP also shows phase-specific exchange rates with mitotic chromatin. Furthermore, core histone components exchange at detectable levels that are elevated during anaphase and telophase, temporally correlating with H3-K9 acetylation and recruitment of RNA polymerase II before the onset of bulk RNA synthesis at mitotic exit. Our findings indicate that mitotic chromosomes in general and ribosomal genes in particular, although highly condensed, are accessible to transcription factors and chromatin proteins. The phase-specific exchanges of nucleosome components during late mitotic phases are consistent with an emerging model of replication independent core histone replacement.
The parafibromin tumor suppressor protein is part of a human Paf1 complex.	Parafibromin, the product of the HRPT2 (hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome 2) tumor suppressor gene, is the human homologue of yeast Cdc73, part of the yeast RNA polymerase II/Paf1 complex known to be important for histone modification and connections to posttranscriptional events. By purifying cellular parafibromin and characterizing its associated proteins, we have identified a human counterpart to the yeast Paf1 complex including homologs of Leo1, Paf1, and Ctr9. Like the yeast complex, the parafibromin complex associates with the nonphosphorylated and Ser2 and Ser5 phosphorylated forms of the RNA polymerase II large subunit. Immunofluorescence experiments show that parafibromin is a nuclear protein. In addition, cotransfection data suggest that parafibromin can interact with a histone methyltransferase complex that methylates histone H3 on lysine 4. Some mutant forms of parafibromin lack association with hPaf1 complex members and with the histone methyltransferase complex, suggesting that disruption of these complexes may correlate with the oncogenic process.
Histone H2B ubiquitylation is associated with elongating RNA polymerase II.	Rad6-mediated ubiquitylation of histone H2B at lysine 123 has been linked to transcriptional activation and the regulation of lysine methylation on histone H3. However, how Rad6 and H2B ubiquitylation contribute to the transcription and histone methylation processes is poorly understood. Here, we show that the Paf1 transcription elongation complex and the E3 ligase for Rad6, Bre1, mediate an association of Rad6 with the hyperphosphorylated (elongating) form of RNA polymerase II (Pol II). This association appears to be necessary for the transcriptional activities of Rad6, as deletion of various Paf1 complex members or Bre1 abolishes H2B ubiquitylation (ubH2B) and reduces the recruitment of Rad6 to the promoters and transcribed regions of active genes. Using the inducible GAL1 gene as a model, we find that the recruitment of Rad6 upon activation occurs rapidly and transiently across the gene and coincides precisely with the appearance of Pol II. Significantly, during GAL1 activation in an rtf1 deletion mutant, Rad6 accumulates at the promoter but is absent from the transcribed region. This fact suggests that Rad6 is recruited to promoters independently of the Paf1 complex but then requires this complex for entrance into the coding region of genes in a Pol II-associated manner. In support of a role for Rad6-dependent H2B ubiquitylation in transcription elongation, we find that ubH2B levels are dramatically reduced in strains bearing mutations of the Pol II C-terminal domain (CTD) and abolished by inactivation of Kin28, the serine 5 CTD kinase that promotes the transition from initiation to elongation. Furthermore, synthetic genetic array analysis reveals that the Rad6 complex interacts genetically with a number of known or suspected transcription elongation factors. Finally, we show that Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutants bearing defects in the pathway to H2B ubiquitylation display transcription elongation defects as assayed by 6-azauracil sensitivity. Collectively, our results indicate a role for Rad6 and H2B ubiquitylation during the elongation cycle of transcription and suggest a mechanism by which H3 methylation may be regulated.
The histone chaperone TAF-I/SET/INHAT is required for transcription in vitro of chromatin templates.	To uncover factors required for transcription by RNA polymerase II on chromatin, we fractionated a mammalian cell nuclear extract. We identified the histone chaperone TAF-I (also known as INHAT [inhibitor of histone acetyltransferase]), which was previously proposed to repress transcription, as a potent activator of chromatin transcription responsive to the vitamin D3 receptor or to Gal4-VP16. TAF-I associates with chromatin in vitro and can substitute for the related protein NAP-1 in assembling chromatin onto cloned DNA templates in cooperation with the remodeling enzyme ATP-dependent chromatin assembly factor (ACF). The chromatin assembly and transcriptional activation functions are distinct, however, and can be dissociated temporally. Efficient transcription of chromatin assembled with TAF-I still requires the presence of TAF-I during the polymerization reaction. Conversely, TAF-I cannot stimulate transcript elongation when added after the other factors necessary for assembly of a preinitiation complex on naked DNA. Thus, TAF-I is required to facilitate transcription at a step after chromatin assembly but before transcript elongation.
Inhibition of interleukin-1beta-induced cyclooxygenase 2 expression in human synovial fibroblasts by 15-deoxy-Delta12,14-prostaglandin J2 through a histone deacetylase-independent mechanism.	The cyclooxygenase (COX) metabolite, 15-deoxy-Delta(12,14)-prostaglandin J(2) (15d-PGJ(2)), has been reported to inhibit the expression of a number of genes involved in the pathogenesis of arthritis. However, its effects on COX-2 remain controversial. We undertook this study to investigate the effects of 15d-PGJ(2) on interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta)-induced COX-2 expression in human synovial fibroblasts (HSFs).
Use of RNA polymerase II to transcribe artificial microRNAs.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenously encoded approximately 22-nt-long RNAs that are generally expressed in a highly tissue- or developmental-stage-specific fashion and that posttranscriptionally regulate target genes. Regulatable RNA polymerase II promoters can be used to overexpress authentic microRNAs in cell culture. Furthermore, one can also design and express artificial microRNAs based on the features of existing microRNA genes, such as the gene encoding the human miR-30 microRNA. Overexpression or inappropriate expression of authentic microRNAs may facilitate the study of their normal functions and expression of artificial microRNAs may permit effective, regulated RNA interference in vivo.
SAGA unveiled.	Transcriptional regulation in eukaryotes is intimately coupled to chromatin dynamics. The SAGA (Spt-Ada-Gcn5) histone acetyltransferase (HAT) complex of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a multi-subunit co-factor for RNA polymerase II transcription. However, not all gene activation events require its intrinsic HAT activity. In addition, SAGA subunits can also restrict gene transcription. The recently published structural model from the laboratories of Fred Winston and Patrick Schultz of the SAGA complex provides a framework to rationalize these findings and to direct further investigation of this crucial transcriptional co-factor.
Silencing near tRNA genes requires nucleolar localization.	Transcription by RNA polymerase II is antagonized by the presence of a nearby tRNA gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. To test hypotheses concerning the mechanism of this tRNA gene-mediated (tgm) silencing, the effects of specific gene deletions were determined. The results show that the mechanism of silencing near tRNA genes is fundamentally different from other forms of transcriptional silencing in yeast. Rather, tgm silencing is dependent on the ability to cluster the dispersed tRNA genes in or near the nucleolus, constituting a form of three-dimensional gene control.
A novel CDK inhibitor, CYC202 (R-roscovitine), overcomes the defect in p53-dependent apoptosis in B-CLL by down-regulation of genes involved in transcription regulation and survival.	B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a clinically variable disease where mutations in DNA damage response genes ATM or TP53 affect the response to standard therapeutic agents. The in vitro cytotoxicity of a novel cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, CYC202, was evaluated in 26 B-CLLs, 11 with mutations in either the ATM or TP53 genes, and compared with that induced by ionizing radiation and fludarabine. CYC202 induced apoptosis within 24 hours of treatment in all 26 analyzed tumor samples independently of ATM and TP53 gene status, whereas 6 of 26 B-CLLs, mostly ATM mutant, showed marked in vitro resistance to fludarabine-induced apoptosis. Compared with B-CLLs, normal T and B lymphocytes treated with CYC202 displayed reduced and delayed apoptosis. Using global gene expression profiling, we found that CYC202 caused a significant down-regulation of genes involved in regulation of transcription, translation, survival, and DNA repair. Furthermore, induction of apoptosis by CYC202 was preceded by inhibition of RNA polymerase II phosphorylation, leading to down-regulation of several prosurvival proteins. We conclude that CYC202 is a potent inducer of apoptosis in B-CLL regardless of the functional status of the p53 pathway, and may be considered as a therapeutic agent to improve the outcome of resistant B-CLL tumors.
Control of formation of two distinct classes of RNA polymerase II elongation complexes.	We have examined elongation by RNA polymerase II initiated at a promoter and have identified two classes of elongation complexes. Following initiation at a promoter, all polymerase molecules enter an abortive mode of elongation. Abortive elongation is characterized by the rapid generation of short transcripts due to pausing of the polymerase followed by termination of transcription. Termination of the early elongation complexes can be suppressed by the addition of 250 mM KCl or 1 mg of heparin per ml soon after initiation. Elongation complexes of the second class carry out productive elongation in which long transcripts can be synthesized. Productive elongation complexes are derived from early paused elongation complexes by the action of a factor which we call P-TEF (positive transcription elongation factor). P-TEF is inhibited by 5,6-dichloro-1-beta-D-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole at concentrations which have no effect on the initiation of transcription. By using templates immobilized on paramagnetic particles, we show that isolated preinitiation complexes lack P-TEF and give rise to transcription complexes which can carry out only abortive elongation. The ability to carry out productive elongation can be restored to isolated transcription complexes by the addition of P-TEF after initiation. A model is presented which describes the role of elongation factors in the formation and maintenance of elongation complexes. The model is consistent with the available in vivo data concerning control of elongation and is used to predict the outcome of other potential in vitro and in vivo experiments.
Actin and hnRNP U cooperate for productive transcription by RNA polymerase II.	To determine the role of actin-ribonucleoprotein complexes in transcription, we set out to identify novel actin-binding proteins associated with RNA polymerase II (Pol II). Using affinity chromatography on fractionated HeLa cells, we found that hnRNP U binds actin through a short amino acid sequence in its C-terminal domain. Post-transcriptional gene silencing of hnRNP U and nuclear microinjections of a short peptide encompassing the hnRNP U actin-binding sequence inhibited BrUTP incorporation in vivo. In living cells, we found that both actin and hnRNP U are associated with the phosphorylated C-terminal domain of Pol II, and antibodies to actin and hnRNP U blocked Pol II-mediated transcription. Taken together, our results indicate that a general actin-based mechanism is implicated in the transcription of most Pol II genes. Actin in complex with hnRNP U may carry out its regulatory role during the initial phases of transcription activation.
Human pol II promoter prediction: time series descriptors and machine learning.	Although several in silico promoter prediction methods have been developed to date, they are still limited in predictive performance. The limitations are due to the challenge of selecting appropriate features of promoters that distinguish them from non-promoters and the generalization or predictive ability of the machine-learning algorithms. In this paper we attempt to define a novel approach by using unique descriptors and machine-learning methods for the recognition of eukaryotic polymerase II promoters. In this study, non-linear time series descriptors along with non-linear machine-learning algorithms, such as support vector machine (SVM), are used to discriminate between promoter and non-promoter regions. The basic idea here is to use descriptors that do not depend on the primary DNA sequence and provide a clear distinction between promoter and non-promoter regions. The classification model built on a set of 1000 promoter and 1500 non-promoter sequences, showed a 10-fold cross-validation accuracy of 87% and an independent test set had an accuracy >85% in both promoter and non-promoter identification. This approach correctly identified all 20 experimentally verified promoters of human chromosome 22. The high sensitivity and selectivity indicates that n-mer frequencies along with non-linear time series descriptors, such as Lyapunov component stability and Tsallis entropy, and supervised machine-learning methods, such as SVMs, can be useful in the identification of pol II promoters.
Recombinant TBP, transcription factor IIB, and RAP30 are sufficient for promoter recognition by mammalian RNA polymerase II.	Initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II is a complex, multistep process which requires several accessory factors in addition to the polymerase itself. A critical event in transcription initiation is the specific association of RNA polymerase II with promoter DNA. In this report we show that three eukaryotic polypeptides, produced in Escherichia coli and purified to near homogeneity, constitute a minimal set of general transcription factors both necessary and sufficient for specific and stable promoter binding by RNA polymerase II. These polypeptides are the yeast TATA box binding protein TBP, the human general initiation factor TFIIB, and human RAP30, the small subunit of RAP30/74 (or transcription factor IIF). Formation of the polymerase-containing complex required only the TATA box, and not the initiator element (Inr), of the adenovirus major late promoter which was used in these experiments.
The proximal promoter and the start site cooperate to specify correct U1 snRNA transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II.	In this work, we attempted to gain insight into the detailed mechanism allowing correct transcription initiation of U1 snRNA genes by RNA polymerase II. Abolition of the CA motif residing at -1/+1 in the Xenopus U1 gene leads to a loss of the ability of the promoter to direct accurate initiation. A discrete site is selected only if a purine preceded by a pyrimidine is positioned at 58/57 bp downstream of the center of the PSE. The PSE alone is unable to designate a discrete initiation site. Rather, it serves to set the location of an initiation window without discriminating suitable from unsuitable initiation sites. The latter role is devoted to a PyPu sequence positioned at -1/+1. Therefore, it is the concomitant action of the PSE and an essential PyPu positioned at the proper distance from this promoter that specifies correct U1 snRNA transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II.
Preservation of a kinetically originated folding of the cis antirepressor sequence for transport of HIV-1 viral RNA.	We compute a metastable secondary structure for the cis antirepressor sequence (CAR) in the viral RNA of human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) whose lifetime is long enough to allow for further stabilization by interaction with the ribosomal machinery. The structure emerges as the viral genome RNA is being synthesized by RNA polymerase II and corresponds to the biologically active structure sustained between units 7364 and in env RNA. It is the most probable among the fast-formed structures which emerge during transcription. No tertiary interactions appear to influence the statistical weight of this metastable state. The structure is predicted by means of a Monte Carlo simulation which computes refolding events occurring as the CAR portion of viral RNA is being assembled. The final emerging structure is preserved for transportation of viral RNA and spliced env RNA from the nucleus to the cytoplasm of the host cell.
Variants of the TATA-binding protein can distinguish subsets of RNA polymerase I, II, and III promoters.	Transcription extracts prepared from yeast that are deficient in the TATA-binding protein (TBP or TFIID) are also impaired in specific promoter recognition by all three nuclear RNA polymerases (pol I, II, and III). Specific initiation can be rescued by the addition of purified recombinant TBP, demonstrating that pol I, II, and III all require this factor. A mutation of TBP has been identified that will function with pol I but not with pol II or III. Conversely, another mutation, which inactivates TATA element binding in vitro, will function with pol I and III promoters but is inactive for a pol II promoter. Thus, it is possible to identify TBP variants that will only function on different subsets of all nuclear promoters.
Accuracy of wheat-germ RNA polymerase II. General enzymatic properties and effect of template conformational transition from right-handed B-DNA to left-handed Z-DNA.	We investigated the accuracy of the insertion process in RNA chain elongation catalyzed by wheat germ RNA polymerase II. Error frequencies varied from 1 misinserted nucleotide per 250 polymerized correct substrates to less than 1 in 2 x 10(5), depending on template sequence and nature of the divalent metal cofactor. Higher error ratios were observed in the presence of Mn2+ compared to Mg2+, and with alternating poly[d(G-C)].poly[d(G-C)] compared to poly[d(A-T)].poly[d(A-T)]. In this latter case the eukaryotic RNA polymerase was as accurate as Escherichia coli RNA polymerase holo-enzyme. The fidelity of wheat germ RNA polymerase II was also examined in transcription of polynucleotide templates in the poly[d(G-C)] family adopting either the right-handed B or left-handed Z conformations. Error ratios for noncomplementary ATP increased markedly under experimental conditions favoring the B-to-Z conformational transition of the alternating copolymers. In accordance with the results of previous studies, the rate of productive elongation, i.e. the synthesis of poly[r(G-C)], was depressed, suggesting that the decreased accuracy of the enzyme derived from an altered competence of the enzyme to form elongation complexes on the left-handed DNA. As judged by the large difference in apparent Km values of the enzyme for complementary and noncomplementary nucleoside triphosphates, part of the discrimination between substrates seemed to take place at the initial binding step. Furthermore, the results indicate that wheat germ RNA polymerase II was able to elongate a primer with a 3'-terminal mismatch, and thus to incorporate the mismatched nucleotide stably in the nascent RAN. However, the probability of productive RNA chain elongation was much lower with noncognate than with the complementary substrates.
The elongata mutants identify a functional Elongator complex in plants with a role in cell proliferation during organ growth.	The key enzyme for transcription of protein-encoding genes in eukaryotes is RNA polymerase II (RNAPII). The recruitment of this enzyme during transcription initiation and its passage along the template during transcription elongation is regulated through the association and dissociation of several complexes. Elongator is a histone acetyl transferase complex, consisting of six subunits (ELP1-ELP6), that copurifies with the elongating RNAPII in yeast and humans. We demonstrate that point mutations in three Arabidopsis thaliana genes, encoding homologs of the yeast Elongator subunits ELP1, ELP3 (histone acetyl transferase), and ELP4 are responsible for the phenotypes of the elongata2 (elo2), elo3, and elo1 mutants, respectively. The elo mutants are characterized by narrow leaves and reduced root growth that results from a decreased cell division rate. Morphological and molecular phenotypes show that the ELONGATA (ELO) genes function in the same biological process and the epistatic interactions between the ELO genes can be explained by the model of complex formation in yeast. Furthermore, the plant Elongator complex is genetically positioned in the process of RNAPII-mediated transcription downstream of Mediator. Our data indicate that the Elongator complex is evolutionarily conserved in structure and function but reveal that the mechanism by which it stimulates cell proliferation is different in yeast and plants.
A human splicing factor, SKIP, associates with P-TEFb and enhances transcription elongation by HIV-1 Tat.	HIV-1 Tat binds human CyclinT1 and recruits the CDK9/P-TEFb complex to the viral TAR RNA in a step that links RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) C-terminal domain (CTD) Ser 2 phosphorylation with transcription elongation. Previous studies have suggested a connection between Tat and pre-mRNA splicing factors. Here we show that the splicing-associated c-Ski-interacting protein, SKIP, is required for Tat transactivation in vivo and stimulates HIV-1 transcription elongation, but not initiation, in vitro. SKIP associates with CycT1:CDK9/P-TEFb and Tat:P-TEFb complexes in nuclear extracts and interacts with recombinant Tat:P-TEFb:TAR RNA complexes in vitro, indicating that it may act through nascent RNA to overcome pausing by RNAPII. SKIP also associates with U5snRNP proteins and tri-snRNP110K in nuclear extracts, and facilitates recognition of an alternative Tat-specific splice site in vivo. The effects of SKIP on transcription elongation, binding to P-TEFb, and splicing are mediated through the SNW domain. HIV-1 Tat transactivation is accompanied by the recruitment of P-TEFb, SKIP, and tri-snRNP110K to the integrated HIV-1 promoter in vivo, whereas the U5snRNPs associate only with the transcribed coding region. These findings suggest that SKIP plays independent roles in transcription elongation and pre-mRNA splicing.
BRCA1/BARD1 inhibition of mRNA 3' processing involves targeted degradation of RNA polymerase II.	Mammalian cells exhibit a complex response to DNA damage. The tumor suppressor BRCA1 and associated protein BARD1 are thought to play an important role in this response, and our previous work demonstrated that this includes transient inhibition of the pre-mRNA 3' processing machinery. Here we provide evidence that this inhibition involves proteasomal degradation of a component necessary for processing, RNA polymerase II (RNAP II). We further show that RNAP IIO, the elongating form of the enzyme, is a specific in vitro target of the BRCA1/BARD1 ubiquitin ligase activity. Significantly, siRNA-mediated knockdown of BRCA1 and BARD1 resulted in stabilization of RNAP II after DNA damage. In addition, inhibition of 3' cleavage induced by DNA damage was reverted in extracts of BRCA1-, BARD1-, or BRCA1/BARD1-depleted cells. We also describe corresponding changes in the nuclear localization and/or accumulation of these factors following DNA damage. Our results support a model in which a BRCA1/BARD1-containing complex functions to initiate degradation of stalled RNAP IIO, inhibiting the coupled transcription-RNA processing machinery and facilitating repair.
Molecular machinery of the transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II]	Transcription is the first stage of the realization of genetic information. In recent years, substantial progress in understanding of this process has been achieved. Eukaryotic cell nuclei were shown to possess extremely complex transcription machinery consisting of more that a hundred different factors. A series of our reviews is devoted to the first step of the transcription process, which is of key significance for the control of gene expression: transcription initiation on the genes transcribed by RNA polymerase II. This paper gives a short description of the main factors involved in this process.
Specific interaction between the nonphosphorylated form of RNA polymerase II and the TATA-binding protein.	Fractionation of a transcription-competent HeLa cell extract on a column containing one copy of the heptamer repeat (YSPTSPS) present in the carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II resulted in the loss of transcriptional activity. Fractionation of the extracts on columns containing mutations of the heptamer repeat was without effect. Such transcriptionally inactive extracts regained their ability to specifically transcribe different class II promoters upon the addition of human TFIID, recombinant yeast TATA-binding protein (TBP), or proteins bound to the column. Fractionation of RNA polymerase II on columns containing human or yeast TBP resulted in the specific retention of the nonphosphorylated form of RNA polymerase II. The phosphorylated form of the enzyme was unable to interact with TBP. The specific interaction of RNA polymerase II with TBP was mediated by the CTD of RNA polymerase II.
Reviving the exosome.	In the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, RNA decay in the 3'-5' direction is carried out by a complex of exonucleases called the exosome. Surprisingly, the purified exosome shows only weak activity in vitro. Two papers in this issue of Cell, by LaCava et al. (2005) and Wyers et al. (2005), and a third report by Vanacova et al. (2005) help to solve this riddle by characterizing a new RNA decay-activating complex containing a poly(A) polymerase. In addition, they identify new unconventional RNA polymerase II transcription units.
RNA degradation by the exosome is promoted by a nuclear polyadenylation complex.	The exosome complex of 3'-5' exonucleases participates in RNA maturation and quality control and can rapidly degrade RNA-protein complexes in vivo. However, the purified exosome showed weak in vitro activity, indicating that rapid RNA degradation requires activating cofactors. This work identifies a nuclear polyadenylation complex containing a known exosome cofactor, the RNA helicase Mtr4p; a poly(A) polymerase, Trf4p; and a zinc knuckle protein, Air2p. In vitro, the Trf4p/Air2p/Mtr4p polyadenylation complex (TRAMP) showed distributive RNA polyadenylation activity. The presence of the exosome suppressed poly(A) tail addition, while TRAMP stimulated exosome degradation through structured RNA substrates. In vivo analyses showed that TRAMP is required for polyadenylation and degradation of rRNA and snoRNA precursors that are characterized exosome substrates. Poly(A) tails stimulate RNA degradation in bacteria, suggesting that this is their ancestral function. We speculate that this function was maintained in eukaryotic nuclei, while cytoplasmic mRNA poly(A) tails acquired different roles in translation.
Cryptic pol II transcripts are degraded by a nuclear quality control pathway involving a new poly(A) polymerase.	Since detection of an RNA molecule is the major criterion to define transcriptional activity, the fraction of the genome that is expressed is generally considered to parallel the complexity of the transcriptome. We show here that several supposedly silent intergenic regions in the genome of S. cerevisiae are actually transcribed by RNA polymerase II, suggesting that the expressed fraction of the genome is higher than anticipated. Surprisingly, however, RNAs originating from these regions are rapidly degraded by the combined action of the exosome and a new poly(A) polymerase activity that is defined by the Trf4 protein and one of two RNA binding proteins, Air1p or Air2p. We show that such a polyadenylation-assisted degradation mechanism is also responsible for the degradation of several Pol I and Pol III transcripts. Our data strongly support the existence of a posttranscriptional quality control mechanism limiting inappropriate expression of genetic information.
Cell-type-specific epigenetic marking of the IL2 gene at a distal cis-regulatory region in competent, nontranscribing T-cells.	T-cells retain cell-type-specific programming for IL-2 inducibility through many rounds of division without being stimulated to transcribe the locus. To understand the layering of controls needed to poise this gene heritably for activation, we have used chromatin immunoprecipitation to map histone modifications across the murine IL2 locus, from -10.2 through +0.25 kb, in induction-competent and incompetent cells. In highly inducible EL4 T-lineage cells, stimulation with PMA/A23187 induced strong acetylation of histone H3 and H4, in parallel with transcriptional activation, from -4.6 through +0.25 kb. However, dimethylation of histone H3/K4 was already fully elevated across the same restricted domain before stimulation, with little change after stimulation. RNA polymerase II binding, in contrast, was only found at the known promoter region after stimulation. Similar patterns of histone modifications were seen also in normal IL-2-inducible T-lineage cells. However, neither acetylated histone H3, H4 nor dimethylated histone H3/K4 marking was detected, with or without stimulation, in expression-incompetent cells (NIH/3T3 or Scid.adh). These results identify a discrete new domain of IL2 regulatory sequence marked by dimethylated histone H3/K4 in expression-permissive T-cells even when they are not transcribing IL2, setting boundaries for histone H3 and H4 acetylation when the IL2 gene is transcriptionally activated.
Co-expression of multiple subunits enables recombinant SNAPC assembly and function for transcription by human RNA polymerases II and III.	Human small nuclear (sn) RNA genes are transcribed by either RNA polymerase II or III depending upon the arrangement of their core promoter elements. Regardless of polymerase specificity, these genes share a requirement for a general transcription factor called the snRNA activating protein complex or SNAP(C). This multi-subunit complex recognizes the proximal sequence element (PSE) commonly found in the upstream promoters of human snRNA genes. SNAP(C) consists of five subunits: SNAP190, SNAP50, SNAP45, SNAP43, and SNAP19. Previous studies have shown that a partial SNAP(C) composed of SNAP190 (1-514), SNAP50, and SNAP43 expressed in baculovirus is capable of PSE-specific DNA binding and transcription of human snRNA genes by RNA polymerases II and III. Expression in a baculovirus system yields active complex but the concentration of such material is insufficient for many bio-analytical methods. Herein, we describe the co-expression in Escherichia coli of a partial SNAP(C) containing SNAP190 (1-505), SNAP50, SNAP43, and SNAP19. The co-expressed complex binds DNA specifically and recruits TBP to U6 promoter DNA. Importantly, this partial complex functions in reconstituted transcription of both human U1 and U6 snRNA genes by RNA polymerases II and III, respectively. This co-expression system will facilitate the functional characterization of this unusual multi-protein transcription factor that plays an important early role for transcription by two different polymerases.
Effects of acetylation, polymerase phosphorylation, and DNA unwinding in glucocorticoid receptor transactivation.	Varying the concentration of selected factors alters the induction properties of steroid receptors by changing the position of the dose-response curve (or the value for half-maximal induction=EC(50)) and the amount of partial agonist activity of antisteroids. We now describe a rudimentary mathematical model that predicts a simple Michaelis-Menten curve for the multi-step process of steroid-regulated gene induction. This model suggests that steps far downstream from receptor binding to steroid can influence the EC(50) of agonist-complexes and partial agonist activity of antagonist-complexes. We therefore asked whether inhibitors of three possible downstream steps can reverse the effects of increased concentrations of two factors: glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) and Ubc9. The downstream steps (with inhibitors in parentheses) are protein deacetylation (TSA and VPA), DNA unwinding (CPT), and CTD phosphorylation of RNA polymerase II (DRB and H8). None of the inhibitors mimic or prevent the effects of added GRs. However, inhibitors of DNA unwinding and CTD phosphorylation do reverse the effects of Ubc9 with high GR concentrations. These results support our earlier conclusion that different rate-limiting steps operate at low and high GR concentrations versus high GR with Ubc9. The present data also suggest that downstream steps can modulate the EC(50) of GR-mediated induction, thus both supporting the utility of our mathematical model and widening the field of biochemical processes that can modify the EC(50).
The stress-activated Hog1 kinase is a selective transcriptional elongation factor for genes responding to osmotic stress.	Regulation of gene expression by stress-activated protein kinases (SAPKs) is essential for cell adaptation to extracellular stimuli. Exposure of yeast to high osmolarity results in activation of the SAPK Hog1, which associates with transcription factors bound at target promoters and stimulates transcriptional initiation. Unexpectedly, activated Hog1 also associates with elongating Pol II and components of the elongation complex. Hog1 is selectively recruited to the entire coding region of osmotic stress genes, but not to constitutively expressed genes. Selective association of Hog1 with the transcribed region of osmoresponsive genes is determined by the 3' untranslated region (3' UTR). Lastly, Hog1 is important for the amount of the RNA polymerase II (Pol II) elongation complex and of mRNA produced from genes containing osmoresponsive coding regions. Thus, in addition to its various functions during transcriptional initiation, Hog1 behaves as a transcriptional elongation factor that is selective for genes induced upon osmotic stress.
The general transcription machinery and general cofactors.	In eukaryotes, the core promoter serves as a platform for the assembly of transcription preinitiation complex (PIC) that includes TFIIA, TFIIB, TFIID, TFIIE, TFIIF, TFIIH, and RNA polymerase II (pol II), which function collectively to specify the transcription start site. PIC formation usually begins with TFIID binding to the TATA box, initiator, and/or downstream promoter element (DPE) found in most core promoters, followed by the entry of other general transcription factors (GTFs) and pol II through either a sequential assembly or a preassembled pol II holoenzyme pathway. Formation of this promoter-bound complex is sufficient for a basal level of transcription. However, for activator-dependent (or regulated) transcription, general cofactors are often required to transmit regulatory signals between gene-specific activators and the general transcription machinery. Three classes of general cofactors, including TBP-associated factors (TAFs), Mediator, and upstream stimulatory activity (USA)-derived positive cofactors (PC1/PARP-1, PC2, PC3/DNA topoisomerase I, and PC4) and negative cofactor 1 (NC1/HMGB1), normally function independently or in combination to fine-tune the promoter activity in a gene-specific or cell-type-specific manner. In addition, other cofactors, such as TAF1, BTAF1, and negative cofactor 2 (NC2), can also modulate TBP or TFIID binding to the core promoter. In general, these cofactors are capable of repressing basal transcription when activators are absent and stimulating transcription in the presence of activators. Here we review the roles of these cofactors and GTFs, as well as TBP-related factors (TRFs), TAF-containing complexes (TFTC, SAGA, SLIK/SALSA, STAGA, and PRC1) and TAF variants, in pol II-mediated transcription, with emphasis on the events occurring after the chromatin has been remodeled but prior to the formation of the first phosphodiester bond.
Transcriptional pausing caused by NELF plays a dual role in regulating immediate-early expression of the junB gene.	Human 5,6-dichloro-1-beta-D-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole sensitivity-inducing factor (DSIF) and negative elongation factor (NELF) negatively regulate transcription elongation by RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) in vitro. However, the physiological roles of this negative regulation are not well understood. Here, by using a number of approaches to identify protein-DNA interactions in vivo, we show that DSIF- and NELF-mediated transcriptional pausing has a dual function in regulating immediate-early expression of the human junB gene. Before induction by interleukin-6, RNAPII, DSIF, and NELF accumulate in the promoter-proximal region of junB, mainly at around position +50 from the transcription initiation site. After induction, the association of these proteins with the promoter-proximal region continues whereas RNAPII and DSIF are also found in the downstream regions. Depletion of a subunit of NELF by RNA interference enhances the junB mRNA level both before and after induction, indicating that DSIF- and NELF-mediated pausing contributes to the negative regulation of junB expression, not only by inducing RNAPII pausing before induction but also by attenuating transcription after induction. These regulatory mechanisms appear to be conserved in other immediate-early genes as well.
Controlling the elongation phase of transcription with P-TEFb.	The positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) is a cyclin-dependent kinase that controls the elongation phase of transcription by RNA polymerase II (RNAPII). This process is made possible by the reversal of effects of negative elongation factors that include NELF and DSIF. In complex organisms, elongation control is critical for the regulated expression of most genes. In those organisms, the function of P-TEFb is influenced negatively by HEXIM proteins and 7SK snRNA and positively by a variety of recruiting factors. Phylogenetic analyses of the components of the human elongation control machinery indicate that the number of mechanisms utilized to regulate P-TEFb function increased as organisms developed more complex developmental patterns.
Head module control of mediator interactions.	Yeast Mediator proteins interacting with Med17(Srb4) have been expressed at a high level with the use of recombinant baculoviruses and recovered in homogeneous form as a seven subunit, 223 kDa complex. Electron microscopy and single-particle analysis identify this complex as the Mediator head module. The recombinant head module complements "headless" Mediator for the initiation of transcription in vitro. The module interacts with an RNA polymerase II-TFIIF complex, but not with the polymerase or TFIIF alone. This interaction is lost in the presence of a DNA template and associated RNA transcript, recapitulating the release of Mediator that occurs upon the initiation of transcription. Disruption of the head module in a temperature-sensitive mutant in vivo leads to the release of middle and tail modules from a transcriptionally active promoter. The head module evidently controls Mediator-RNA polymerase II and Mediator-promoter interactions.
Locus control region transcription plays an active role in long-range gene activation.	Activation of eukaryotic genes often relies on remote chromatin determinants. How these determinants function remains poorly understood. The hGH gene is activated by a 5'-remote locus control region (LCR). Pituitary-specific DNase I hypersensitive site I (HSI), the dominant hGH LCR element, is separated from the hGH-N promoter by a 14.5 kb span that encompasses the B-lymphocyte-specific CD79b gene. Here, we describe a domain of noncoding Pol II transcription in pituitary somatotropes that includes the hGH LCR and adjacent CD79b locus. This entire "LCR domain of transcription" is HSI [corrected] dependent and terminates 3' to CD79b, leaving a gap in transcription between this domain and the target hGH-N promoter. Insertion of a Pol II terminator within the LCR blocks CD79b transcription and represses hGH-N expression. These data document an essential role for LCR transcription in long-range control, link "bystander"CD79b transcription to this process, and support a unique model for locus activation.
The human RNA polymerase II interacts with the terminal stem-loop regions of the hepatitis delta virus RNA genome.	The hepatitis delta virus (HDV) is an RNA virus that depends on DNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RNAP) for its transcription and replication. While it is generally accepted that RNAP II is involved in HDV replication, its interaction with HDV RNA requires confirmation. A monoclonal antibody specific to the carboxy terminal domain of the largest subunit of RNAP II was used to establish the association of RNAP II with both polarities of HDV RNA in HeLa cells. Co-immunoprecipitations using HeLa nuclear extract revealed that RNAP II interacts with HDV-derived RNAs at sites located within the terminal stem-loop domains of both polarities of HDV RNA. Analysis of these regions revealed a strong selection to maintain a rod-like conformation and demonstrated several conserved features. These results provide the first direct evidence of an association between human RNAP II and HDV RNA and suggest two transcription start sites on both polarities of HDV RNA.
Weak definition of IKBKAP exon 20 leads to aberrant splicing in familial dysautonomia.	Splicing mutations that lead to devastating genetic diseases are often located in nonconserved or weakly conserved sequences that normally do not affect splicing. Thus, the underlying reason for the splicing defect is not immediately obvious. An example of this phenomenon is observed in the neurodevelopmental disease familial dysautonomia (FD), which is caused by a single-base change in the 5' splice site (5'ss) of intron 20 in the IKBKAP gene (c.2204+6T>C). This mutation, which is in the sixth position of the intron and results in exon 20 skipping, has no phenotype in many other introns. To determine why the position 6 mutation causes aberrant splicing only in certain cases, we first used an in silico approach to identify potential sequences involved in exon 20 skipping. Computational analyses of the exon 20 5'ss itself predicted that this nine-nucleotide splicing signal, even when it contains the T>C mutation, is not sufficiently weak to explain the FD phenotype. However, the computational analysis predicted that both the upstream 3' splice site (3'ss) and exon 20 contain weak splicing signals, indicating that the FD 5'ss, together with the surrounding splicing signals, are not adequate for defining exon 20. These in silico predictions were corroborated using IKBKAP minigenes in a new rapid and simple in vitro coupled RNA polymerase (RNAP) II transcription/splicing assay. Finally, the weak splicing signals that flank the T>C mutation were validated as the underlying cause of familial dysautonomia in vivo using transient transfection assays. Together, our study demonstrates the general utility of combining in silico data with an in vitro RNAP II transcription/splicing system for rapidly identifying critical sequences that underlie the numerous splicing diseases caused by otherwise silent mutations.
RNA polymerase II elongation complexes paused after the synthesis of 15- or 35-base transcripts have different structures.	We have purified specific RNA polymerase II elongation intermediates initiated at the adenovirus type 2 major late promoter and paused either 15 or 35 to 36 bases downstream of the transcription initiation site. Transcription was arrested at these two sites by combining modification of the promoter sequence with limitation of appropriate nucleotide concentrations in the in vitro reaction. The resultant complexes were remarkably stable and could be purified away from free DNA and contaminating protein-DNA complexes, without loss of activity, by the use of sucrose gradient sedimentation and low-ionic-strength polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The complexes were characterized by both DNase I and o-phenanthroline-copper ion nuclease protection assays. The DNase I footprints revealed that the structures of the 15- and 35- to 36-nucleotide transcription complexes differed from those previously reported for an adenovirus type 2 major late preinitiation complex and a subsequent intermediate formed upon addition of ATP. Furthermore, the 35- to 36-nucleotide complex protected a significantly smaller portion of the template than the 15-nucleotide species and migrated at a slightly higher rate in polyacrylamide gels. These observations suggest that changes in structural organization may continue to occur in transcription complexes which are already committed to elongation.
Histone hyperacetylation in the coding region of chromatin undergoing transcription in SV40 minichromosomes is a dynamic process regulated directly by the presence of RNA polymerase II.	SV40 chromosomes undergoing transcription operationally defined by the presence of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) were immune-selected with antibody to RNAPII and subjected to secondary chromatin immunoprecipitation with antibodies to hyperacetylated or unacetylated H4 or H3. Immune selection fragmentation and immunoprecipitation was used to determine the hyperacetylation status of histones independent of the location of the RNAPII and Re chromatin immunoprecipitation was used to determine their hyperacetylation status when associated with RNAPII. While hyperacetylated H4 and H3 were found in the coding regions regardless of the location of RNAPII, unacetylated H4 and H3 were found only at sites lacking RNAPII. The absence of unacetylated H4 and H3 at sites containing RNAPII was correlated with the specific association of the histone acetyl transferase p300 with the RNAPII. In contrast, the presence of unacetylated H4 and H3 at sites lacking RNAPII was shown to result from the action of a histone deacetylase based upon the effects of the inhibitor sodium butyrate. These results suggest that the extent of hyperacetylation of H4 and H3 during transcription alternates between hyperacetylation directed by an RNAPII associated histone acetyl transferase and deacetylation directed by a histone deacetylase at other sites.
VHL promotes E2 box-dependent E-cadherin transcription by HIF-mediated regulation of SIP1 and snail.	The product of the von Hippel-Lindau gene (VHL) acts as the substrate-recognition component of an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that ubiquitylates the catalytic alpha subunit of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) for oxygen-dependent destruction. Although emerging evidence supports the notion that deregulated accumulation of HIF upon the loss of VHL is crucial for the development of clear-cell renal cell carcinoma (CC-RCC), the molecular events downstream of HIF governing renal oncogenesis remain unclear. Here, we show that the expression of a homophilic adhesion molecule, E-cadherin, a major constituent of epithelial cell junctions whose loss is associated with the progression of epithelial cancers, is significantly down-regulated in primary CC-RCC and CC-RCC cell lines devoid of VHL. Reintroduction of wild-type VHL in CC-RCC (VHL(-/-)) cells markedly reduced the expression of E2 box-dependent E-cadherin-specific transcriptional repressors Snail and SIP1 and concomitantly restored E-cadherin expression. RNA interference-mediated knockdown of HIFalpha in CC-RCC (VHL(-/-)) cells likewise increased E-cadherin expression, while functional hypoxia or expression of VHL mutants incapable of promoting HIFalpha degradation attenuated E-cadherin expression, correlating with the disengagement of RNA polymerase II from the endogenous E-cadherin promoter/gene. These findings reveal a critical HIF-dependent molecular pathway connecting VHL, an established "gatekeeper" of the renal epithelium, with a major epithelial tumor suppressor, E-cadherin.
Dynamic interplay of transcriptional machinery and chromatin regulates "late" expression of the chemokine RANTES in T lymphocytes.	The chemokine RANTES (regulated upon activation normal T cell expressed and secreted) is expressed "late" (3 to 5 days) after activation in T lymphocytes. In order to understand the molecular events that accompany changes in gene expression, a detailed analysis of the interplay between transcriptional machinery and chromatin on the RANTES promoter over time was undertaken. Krppel-like factor 13 (KLF13), a sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor, orchestrates the induction of RANTES expression in T lymphocytes by ordered recruitment of effector molecules, including Nemo-like kinase, p300/cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CBP), p300/CBP-associated factor, and Brahma-related gene 1, that initiate sequential changes in phosphorylation and acetylation of histones and ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling near the TATA box of the RANTES promoter. These events recruit RNA polymerase II to the RANTES promoter and are responsible for late expression of RANTES in T lymphocytes. Therefore, KLF13 is a key regulator of late RANTES expression in T lymphocytes.
Elements involved in an in vitro block to transcription elongation at the end of the L1 mRNA family of adenovirus 2.	Using the 3' end of the L1 mRNA family of adenovirus 2 (Ad2) as a model system, we investigated transcription elongation following a poly(A) signal in a cell-free system. The results show that RNA polymerase II can halt transcription elongation at a T-rich stretch in the non-coding DNA strand 20 nucleotides downstream of the poly(A) signal. The block to transcription elongation is enhanced when Sarkosyl is included in the elongation reaction. Deletion studies narrowed the region which directs the elongation block at the T-rich stretch, to an upstream fragment of 53 nucleotides that is very dA-rich and also contains a functional poly(A) signal. The deletion studies and analysis by site-directed mutagenesis indicate that in the present system, RNA secondary structure, the stretch of T's and the poly(A) signal are not the dominant elements responsible for the elongation block. The block to transcription elongation at the T-rich stretch was also shown to be 5 times more effective in an uninfected extract than in an Ad2 infected extract, which is reminiscent of the in vivo situation and is consistent with the suggestion that a trans-acting factor is involved in modulating the elongation block at the T-rich stretch.
Footprinting analysis of mammalian RNA polymerase II along its transcript: an alternative view of transcription elongation.	Ternary complexes of RNA polymerase II, bearing the nascent RNA transcript, are intermediates in the synthesis of all eukaryotic mRNAs and are implicated as regulatory targets of factors that control RNA chain elongation and termination. Information as to the structure of such complexes is essential in understanding the catalytic and regulatory properties of the RNA polymerase. We have prepared complexes of purified RNA polymerase II halted at defined positions along a DNA template and used RNase footprinting to map interactions of the polymerase with the nascent RNA. Unexpectedly, the transcript is sensitive to cleavage by RNases A and T1 at positions as close as 3 nucleotides from the 3'-terminal growing point. Ternary complexes in which the transcript has been cleaved to give a short fragment can retain that fragment and remain active and able to continue elongation. Since DNA.RNA hybrid structures are completely resistant to cleavage under our reaction conditions, the results suggest that any DNA.RNA hybrid intermediate can extend for no more than 3 base pairs, in dramatic contrast to recent models for transcription elongation. At lower RNase concentrations, the transcript is protected from cleavage out to about 24 nucleotides from the 3' terminus. We interpret this partial protection as due to the presence of an RNA binding site on the polymerase that binds the nascent transcript during elongation, a model proposed earlier by several workers in preference to the hybrid model. The properties of this RNA binding site are likely to play a central role in the process of transcription elongation and termination and in their regulation.
Interaction of RNA polymerase II with acetylated nucleosomal core particles.	Chemical acetylation of nucleosomal cores is accompanied by an increase in their efficiency as in vitro transcription templates. Low amounts of acetic anhydride cause preferential modification of the amino-terminal tails of core histones. Modification of these domains, which causes moderate structural effects, is apparently correlated with the observed stimulation of RNA synthesis. In contrast, extensive modification of the globular regions of core histones, which is accompanied by a large structural relaxation of the particle, causes little additional effect on transcription. Acetylation of the amino-terminal domains of histones might stimulate transcription by changing the interaction of the histone tails with components of the transcriptional machinery.
Functional characterization of a mammalian transcription factor, Elongin A.	Elongin A is the transcriptionally active subunit of the Elongin complex that strongly stimulates the rate of elongation by RNA polymerase II (pol II) by suppressing the transient pausing of the polymerase at many sites along the DNA template. We have recently shown that Elongin A-deficient mice are embryonic lethal, and mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) derived from Elongin A(-/-) embryos display not only increased apoptosis but also senescence-like phenotypes accompanied by the activation of p53. To further understand the function of Elongin A in vivo, we have carried out the structure-function analysis of Elongin A and identified sequences critical to its nuclear localization and direct interaction with pol II. Moreover, we have analyzed the replication fork movement in wild-type and Elongin A(-/-) MEFs, and shown the possibility that the genomic instability observed in Elongin A(-/-) MEFs might be caused by the replication fork collapse due to Elongin A deficiency.
Functional characterization of small CTD phosphatases.	The carboxyl-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase (RNAP) II undergoes reversible phosphorylation with each round of transcription essential for the regulation of gene expression. A family of small CTD phosphatases (SCPs) was identified based on a homology search to TFIIF-associating CTD phosphatase 1 (FCP1). Unlike FCP1, SCP preferentially catalyze the dephosphorylation of Ser5 within the CTD and is especially active toward RNAP II phosphorylated by TFIIH (1). Recently, SCP1 was demonstrated as a transcriptional regulator that acts to silence neuronal genes (2). This chapter describes the procedures for various assays involved in the discovery and functional characterization of SCPs.
Peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerases and transcription: is there a twist in the tail?	Eukaryotic transcription is regulated predominantly by the post-translational modification of the participating components. One such modification is the cis-trans isomerization of peptidyl-prolyl bonds, which results in a conformational change in the protein involved. Enzymes that carry out this reaction include the yeast peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase Ess1 and its human counterpart Pin1, both of which recognize phosphorylated target motifs exclusively. Consequently, they operate together with proline-directed serine-threonine kinases and phosphatases. High-profile client proteins involved in transcription include steroid hormone receptors, cell-cycle regulators and immune mediators. Other key targets are elements of the transcription machinery, including the multiply phosphorylated carboxy-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II. Changes in isomerase activity have been shown to alter the transactivation potential, protein stability or intracellular localization of these client proteins. The resulting disruption to developmental processes and cell proliferation has been linked, in some cases, to human cancers.
Enhancers located in the vitamin D receptor gene mediate transcriptional autoregulation by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.	The regulatory actions of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) (1,25(OH)(2)D(3)) on target genes are mediated by the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Interestingly, one of the genomic targets of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) action is the VDR gene itself; however, the mechanism underlying this regulation is unknown. We investigated VDR autoregulation by screening the mouse VDR locus from 20kb upstream of the transcriptional start site (TSS) to 10kb downstream of the last exon using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-DNA microarray analysis (ChIP/chip). Three potential VDR binding sites were located within introns lying downstream of the TSS and their activities confirmed through direct ChIP analysis. Further exploration revealed that one of these intronic regions was capable of conferring 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) response to both a downstream heterologous promoter and the minimal VDR promoter. Importantly, this regulatory region contained a classic vitamin D response element and was highly conserved within the human gene. We also demonstrated using ChIP analysis that the binding of VDR is associated with co-localization of RXR and the enhanced entry of RNA polymerase II. Thus, each of these sites appears likely to contribute to VDR autoregulation. Our studies using ChIP/chip analysis coupled to more traditional approaches define a direct mechanism whereby the VDR gene is upregulated by 1,25(OH)(2)D(3).
Functional TFIIH is required for UV-induced translocation of CSA to the nuclear matrix.	Transcription-coupled repair (TCR) efficiently removes a variety of lesions from the transcribed strand of active genes. Mutations in Cockayne syndrome group A and B genes (CSA and CSB) result in defective TCR, but the molecular mechanism of TCR in mammalian cells is not clear. We have found that CSA protein is translocated to the nuclear matrix after UV irradiation and colocalized with the hyperphosphorylated form of RNA polymerase II and that the translocation is dependent on CSB. We developed a cell-free system for the UV-induced translocation of CSA. A cytoskeleton (CSK) buffer-soluble fraction containing CSA and a CSK buffer-insoluble fraction prepared from UV-irradiated CS-A cells were mixed. After incubation, the insoluble fraction was treated with DNase I. CSA protein was detected in the DNase I-insoluble fraction, indicating that it was translocated to the nuclear matrix. In this cell-free system, the translocation was dependent on UV irradiation, CSB function, and TCR-competent CSA. Moreover, the translocation was dependent on functional TFIIH, as well as chromatin structure and transcription elongation. These results suggest that alterations of chromatin at the RNA polymerase II stall site, which depend on CSB and TFIIH at least, are necessary for the UV-induced translocation of CSA to the nuclear matrix.
Transcription reactivation steps stimulated by oocyte maturation in C. elegans.	Developing oocytes produce materials that will support early embryonic development then cease transcription before fertilization. Later, a distinct transcription program is established in the embryo. Little is understood about how these global gene regulation transitions are effected. We have investigated in C. elegans how oocyte transcription is influenced by maturation, a process that releases meiotic arrest and prepares for fertilization. By monitoring transcription-associated phosphorylation of the RNA polymerase II (Pol II) C-terminal domain (CTD), we find that oocyte transcription shuts down independently of maturation. Surprisingly, maturation signals then induce CTD phosphorylation that is associated specifically with transcription initiation steps and accumulates to high levels when expression of the CTD phosphatase FCP-1 is inhibited. This CTD phosphorylation is also uncovered when a ubiquitylation pathway is blocked, or when maturation is stimulated precociously. CTD phosphorylation is similarly detected during embryonic mitosis, when transcription is also largely silenced. We conclude that oocyte maturation signals induce abortive transcription events in which FCP-1 may recycle phosphorylated Pol II and that analogous processes may occur during mitosis. Our findings suggest that maturation signals may initiate preparations for embryonic transcription, possibly as part of a broader program that begins the transition from maternal to zygotic gene expression.
Distinct modes of action applied by transcription factors STAT1 and IRF1 to initiate transcription of the IFN-gamma-inducible gbp2 gene.	A subgroup of genes induced by IFN-gamma requires both STAT1 and IRF1 for transcriptional activation. Using WT, stat1(-/-), or irf1(-/-) cells, we analyzed the changes induced by IFN-gamma in gbp2 promoter chromatin. STAT1 associated with the promoter independently of IRF1 and played an essential role in the ordered recruitment of the coactivator/histone acetyl transferase CREB-binding protein (CBP) and the histone deacetylase HDAC1. Hyperacetylation of histone 4 also required STAT1. Phosphorylation at S727 in the transactivating domain increased transcriptional activity of STAT1. In cells expressing a STAT1S727A-mutant CBP recruitment, histone 4 hyperacetylation and RNA polymerase II association with the gbp2 promoter were strongly reduced. IRF1 association with the gbp2 promoter followed that of STAT1, but STAT1 association with DNA or histone hyperacetylation were not necessary for IRF1 binding. RNA polymerase II association with the gbp2 promoter required both STAT1 and IRF1, suggesting that both proteins mediate essential steps in transcriptional activation. IRF1, but not STAT1, was found to coimmunoprecipitate with RNA polymerase II. Together, the data support the assumption that the main role of STAT1 in activating gbp2 transcription is to provide transcriptionally competent chromatin, whereas the function of IRF1 may lie in directly contacting RNA polymerase II-containing transcriptional complexes.
Recruitment of P-TEFb (Cdk9-Pch1) to chromatin by the cap-methyl transferase Pcm1 in fission yeast.	Capping of nascent pre-mRNAs is thought to be a prerequisite for productive elongation and associated serine 2 phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (PolII). The mechanism mediating this link is unknown, but is likely to include the capping machinery and P-TEPb. We report that the fission yeast P-TEFb (Cdk9-Pch1) forms a complex with the cap-methyltransferase Pcm1 and these proteins colocalise on chromatin. Ablation of Cdk9 function through chemical genetics causes growth arrest and abolishes serine 2 phosphorylation on the PolII CTD. Strikingly, depletion of Pcm1 also leads to a dramatic decrease of phospho-serine 2. Chromatin immunoprecipitations show a severe decrease of chromatin-bound Cdk9-Pch1 when Pcm1 is depleted. On the contrary, Cdk9 is not required for association of Pcm1 with chromatin. Furthermore, compromising Cdk9 activity leads to a promoter-proximal PolII stalling and sensitivity to 6-azauracil, reflecting elongation defects. The in vivo data presented here strongly support the existence of a molecular mechanism where the cap-methyltransferase recruits P-TEFb to chromatin, thereby ensuring that only properly capped transcripts are elongated.
Influenza virus infection causes specific degradation of the largest subunit of cellular RNA polymerase II.	It has been described that influenza virus polymerase associates with RNA polymerase II (RNAP II). To gain information about the role of this interaction, we explored if changes in RNAP II occur during infection. Here we show that influenza virus causes the specific degradation of the hypophosphorylated form of the largest subunit of RNAP II without affecting the accumulation of its hyperphosphorylated forms. This effect is independent of the viral strain and the origin of the cells used. Analysis of synthesized mRNAs in isolated nuclei of infected cells indicated that transcription decreases concomitantly with RNAP II degradation. Moreover, this degradation correlated with the onset of viral transcription and replication. The ubiquitin-mediated proteasome pathway is not involved in virally induced RNAP II proteolysis. The expression of viral polymerase from its cloned cDNAs was sufficient to cause the degradation. Since the PA polymerase subunit has proteolytic activity, we tested its participation in the process. A recombinant virus that encodes a PA point mutant with decreased proteolytic activity and that has defects in replication delayed the effect, suggesting that PA's contribution to RNAP II degradation occurs during infection.
Herpes simplex virus immediate-early protein ICP22 triggers loss of serine 2-phosphorylated RNA polymerase II.	During eukaryotic mRNA transcription, the synthetic activity and mRNA processing factor interactions of RNA polymerase II (RNAP II) are regulated by phosphorylation of its carboxyl-terminal domain (CTD), with modification occurring primarily on serines 2 and 5 of the CTD. We previously showed that herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection rapidly triggers the loss of RNAP II forms bearing serine 2 phosphorylation (Ser-2P RNAP II). Here we show that the HSV-1 immediate-early (IE) protein ICP22 is responsible for this effect during the IE phase of infection. This activity does not require the viral UL13 protein kinase, which is required for several other regulatory functions of ICP22. Additionally, we show that transient expression of ICP22 can trigger the loss of Ser-2P RNAP II in transfected cells. Thus, the ability of ICP22 to cause the loss of Ser-2 RNAP II does not require other viral factors or the context of the infected cell. Expression of the HSV-1 ICP22-related protein US1.5, which corresponds to residues 147 to 420 of ICP22, also triggers a loss of Ser-2P RNAP II in transfected cells, whereas expression of the varicella-zoster virus ICP22 homolog, ORF63, does not. Our study also provides evidence for a second, viral late gene-dependent pathway that triggers loss of Ser-2P RNAP II in infected cells, consistent with the recent work of Dai-Ju et al. (J. Q. Dai-Ju, L. Li, L. A. Johnson, and R. M. Sandri-Goldin, J. Virol. 80:3567-3581, 2006). Therefore, it appears that HSV-1 has evolved redundant mechanisms for triggering the loss of a specific phosphorylated form of RNAP II.
A site to remember: H3K36 methylation a mark for histone deacetylation.	Chromatin structure exerts vital control over gene expression, DNA replication, recombination, and repair. In addition to altering RNA polymerase II's (Pol II) accessibility to DNA, histones are involved in the recruitment of activator and repressor complex(es) to regulate gene expression. Histone deacetylase Rpd3 exists in two distinct forms, Rpd3S and Rpd3L. Several recent studies demonstrated that the Eaf3 chromodomain, an Rpd3S subunit, recognizes Set2-methylated histone H3K36, initiating Rpd3 deacetylase activity in the wake of transcribing Pol II. Eaf3 and Set2 inhibit internal initiation within mRNA coding regions, similar to the transcription elongation factor and histone chaperone, FACT. Recent studies reviewed here demonstrate that histone deacetylation on the body of a transcribed gene is regulated via Set2-mediated methylation of histone H3-K36. These modifications provide restoration of normal chromatin structure in the wake of elongating Pol II and prevent inappropriate initiation within protein-coding regions masked by chromatin.
Dynamics of replication-independent histone turnover in budding yeast.	Chromatin plays roles in processes governed by different time scales. To assay the dynamic behavior of chromatin in living cells, we used genomic tiling arrays to measure histone H3 turnover in G1-arrested Saccharomyces cerevisiae at single-nucleosome resolution over 4% of the genome, and at lower (approximately 265 base pair) resolution over the entire genome. We find that nucleosomes at promoters are replaced more rapidly than at coding regions and that replacement rates over coding regions correlate with polymerase density. In addition, rapid histone turnover is found at known chromatin boundary elements. These results suggest that rapid histone turnover serves to functionally separate chromatin domains and prevent spread of histone states.
Contending with transcriptional arrest during RNAPII transcript elongation.	Studies of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) transcript elongation have revealed an extremely complex biochemical process. Obstacles to transcription, such as nucleosomes and DNA damage, must be overcome constantly, requiring the involvement of numerous accessory factors with diverse functions. Together, these factors ensure that transcript elongation is, overall, a highly efficient reaction. The understanding of the basic biochemical principles and factors underlying transcript elongation by RNAPII has greatly improved over the past few years. In particular, studies of RNAPII ubiquitylation and degradation have provided new insight into how cells handle obstacle-induced transcriptional arrest.
Backtracking determines the force sensitivity of RNAP II in a factor-dependent manner.	RNA polymerase II (RNAP II) is responsible for transcribing all messenger RNAs in eukaryotic cells during a highly regulated process that is conserved from yeast to human, and that serves as a central control point for cellular function. Here we investigate the transcription dynamics of single RNAP II molecules from Saccharomyces cerevisiae against force and in the presence and absence of TFIIS, a transcription elongation factor known to increase transcription through nucleosomal barriers. Using a single-molecule dual-trap optical-tweezers assay combined with a novel method to enrich for active complexes, we found that the response of RNAP II to a hindering force is entirely determined by enzyme backtracking. Surprisingly, RNAP II molecules ceased to transcribe and were unable to recover from backtracks at a force of 7.5 +/- 2 pN, only one-third of the force determined for Escherichia coli RNAP. We show that backtrack pause durations follow a t(-3/2) power law, implying that during backtracking RNAP II diffuses in discrete base-pair steps, and indicating that backtracks may account for most of RNAP II pauses. Significantly, addition of TFIIS rescued backtracked enzymes and allowed transcription to proceed up to a force of 16.9 +/- 3.4 pN. Taken together, these results describe a regulatory mechanism of transcription elongation in eukaryotes by which transcription factors modify the mechanical performance of RNAP II, allowing it to operate against higher loads.
The L1Tc non-LTR retrotransposon of Trypanosoma cruzi contains an internal RNA-pol II-dependent promoter that strongly activates gene transcription and generates unspliced transcripts.	L1Tc is the best represented autonomous LINE of the Trypanosoma cruzi genome, throughout which several functional copies may exist. In this study, we show that the first 77 bp of L1Tc (Pr77) (also present in the T. cruzi non-autonomous retrotransposon NARTc, in the Trypanosoma brucei RIME/ingi elements, and in the T. cruzi, T. brucei and Leishmania major degenerate L1Tc/ingi-related elements [DIREs]) behave as a promoter element that activates gene transcription. The transcription rate promoted by Pr77 is 10-14-fold higher than that mediated by sequences located upstream from the T. cruzi tandemly repeated genes KMP11 and the GAPDH. The Pr77 promoter-derived mRNAs initiate at nucleotide +1 of L1Tc, are unspliced and translated. L1Tc transcripts show a moderate half life and are RNA pol II dependent. The presence of an internal promoter at the 5' end of L1Tc favors the production of full-length L1Tc RNAs and reinforces the hypothesis that this mobile element may be naturally autonomous in its transposition.
RNA polymerase II bypasses 8-oxoguanine in the presence of transcription elongation factor TFIIS.	The blockage of transcription elongation by RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) at DNA lesions on the transcribed strand is a serious challenge to accurate transcription. Transcription-coupled DNA repair (TCR), which is assumed to be initiated by the blockage of transcription, rapidly removes lesions on the transcribed strand of expressed genes and allows the resumption of transcription. Although helix-distorting bulky damage such as a cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer is known to block transcription elongation and to be repaired by TCR, it is not clear whether oxidative DNA lesions are repaired by TCR. First, we examined whether transcription elongation by RNAPII is stalled at sites of 2-hydroxyadenine (2-OH-A), 8-oxoadenine (8-oxoA), 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG), or thymine glycol (Tg) on the transcribed strand. Our results indicate that RNAPII incorporated nucleotides opposite the lesions and then stalled. In addition, we found that transcription elongation factor TFIIS (SII) enabled RNAPII to bypass 8-oxoG but not the other types of damage, while transcription initiation and elongation factor TFIIF did not bypass 8-oxoG. These results suggest that SII is important for preventing cellular death due to oxidative DNA damage, assisting RNAPII to bypass 8-oxoG.
Biogenesis and intranuclear trafficking of human box C/D and H/ACA RNPs.	Box C/D and H/ACA snoRNAs represent two abundant groups of small noncoding RNAs. The majority of box C/D and H/ACA snoRNAs function as guide RNAs in the site-specific 2'-O-methylation and pseudouridylation of rRNAs, respectively. The box C/D snoRNAs associate with fibrillarin, Nop56, Nop58, and 15.5K/NHPX proteins to form functional snoRNP particles, whereas all box H/ACA snoRNAs form complexes with the dyskerin, Nop10, Nhp2, and Gar1 snoRNP proteins. Recent studies demonstrate that the biogenesis of mammalian snoRNPs is a complex process that requires numerous trans-acting factors. Most vertebrate snoRNAs are posttranscriptionally processed from pre-mRNA introns, and the early steps of snoRNP assembly are physically and functionally coupled with the synthesis or splicing of the host pre-mRNA. The maturing snoRNPs follow a complicated intranuclear trafficking process that is directed by transport factors also involved in nucleocytoplasmic RNA transport. The human telomerase RNA (hTR) carries a box H/ACA RNA domain that shares a common Cajal-body-specific localization element with a subclass of box H/ACA RNAs, which direct pseudouridylation of spliceosomal snRNAs in the Cajal body. However, besides concentrating in Cajal bodies, hTR also accumulates at a small, structurally distinct subset of telomeres during S phase. This suggests that a cell-cycle-dependent, dynamic localization of hTR to telomeres may play an important regulatory role in human telomere synthesis.
An improved method for infectious bursal disease virus rescue using RNA polymerase II system.	Reverse genetics system is an excellent platform to research the construction and function of viruses. Genome modification, such as gene recombination, mosaicism, and mutation may interfere with replication, assembly and release of viruses. An efficient, convenient and economical method of virus rescue is undoubtedly required for elevating the efficiency of rescuing crippled virus. In this study, we developed a method to rescue infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) using RNA polymerase II. The genome of IBDV Gt strain, flanked by hammerhead ribozyme and hepatitis delta ribozyme sequences, were cloned downstream of the cytomegalovirus enhancer and the beta chicken actin promoter of the vector pCAGGS. Through direct transfection in various cell lines, IBDV could be rescued efficiently. The RNA polymerase II-based reverse genetics system is efficient, stable, convenient, and fit to various cells. The system not only provides the basis of the gene function research of IBDV, but is also useful for reverse genetics research of other birnaviridae viruses.
Protein kinase A-dependent recruitment of RNA polymerase II, C/EBP beta and NF-Y to the rat GTP cyclohydrolase I proximal promoter occurs without alterations in histone acetylation.	Cyclic-AMP stimulation of GTP cyclohydrolase I (GCH1) gene transcription was investigated in PC12 cells, the protein kinase A-deficient PC12 cell line 126-1B2 and C6 cells using transient transfection assays of proximal promoter reporter constructs and wild type or dominant negative proteins, chromatin immunoprecipitation and real-time quantitative PCR. These studies show that protein kinase A is necessary and sufficient for cAMP-dependent transcription conferred by both the cAMP regulatory element and the adjacent CCAAT-box. In intact cells these cis-elements were shown to bind cAMP response element binding protein, CCAAT-enhancer binding protein beta and nuclear factor-Y, with each protein controlling a different aspect of the cAMP response. Cyclic-AMP acting through protein kinase A stimulated promoter recruitment of CCAAT-enhancer binding protein beta, nuclear factor-Y and RNA polymerase II while depleting the promoter of cyclic-AMP response element binding protein. Stimulation of transcription by cAMP was not associated with increased acetylation of histones H3 and H4 at proximal promoter nucleosomes, indicating that histone acetyltransferases are not involved in this response. Nonetheless, pharmacological inhibition of histone deacetylase activity did increase histone H4 acetylation and the recruitment of RNA polymerase II, indicating that histone acetyltransferases are normally associated with the proximal promoter. Only in C6 cells, however, did inhibition of histone deacetylases stimulate transcription and synergize with cAMP. These experiments provide the first glimpse of the GCH1 gene promoter functioning within intact cells and supply evidence for the involvement of histone acetyltransferase-containing complexes in GCH1 gene transcription.
HATs off to capping: a new mechanism for Myc.	The mechanism of transcriptional activation by Myc has been a subject of considerable interest for many years. Recently we reported a novel Myc biochemical function in gene regulation which is distinct from conventional transcriptional activation. Myc can induce global RNA pol II carboxy terminal domain phosphorylation and enhanced mRNA cap methylation on a subset of mRNAs. Remarkably, Myc can induce many of these effects in the complete absence of its DNA binding domain. We further discuss the mechanism of Myc-induced cap methylation, its synergistic relationship with Myc induced transcription, and the role of Myc in cell proliferation.
Pharmacologic disruption of Polycomb-repressive complex 2-mediated gene repression selectively induces apoptosis in cancer cells.	Polycomb-repressive complex 2 (PRC2)-mediated histone methylation plays an important role in aberrant cancer gene silencing and is a potential target for cancer therapy. Here we show that S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase inhibitor 3-Deazaneplanocin A (DZNep) induces efficient apoptotic cell death in cancer cells but not in normal cells. We found that DZNep effectively depleted cellular levels of PRC2 components EZH2, SUZ12, and EED and inhibited associated histone H3 Lys 27 methylation (but not H3 Lys 9 methylation). By integrating RNA interference (RNAi), genome-wide expression analysis, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) studies, we have identified a prominent set of genes selectively repressed by PRC2 in breast cancer that can be reactivated by DZNep. We further demonstrate that the preferential reactivation of a set of these genes by DZNep, including a novel apoptosis affector, FBXO32, contributes to DZNep-induced apoptosis in breast cancer cells. Our results demonstrate the unique feature of DZNep as a novel chromatin remodeling compound and suggest that pharmacologic reversal of PRC2-mediated gene repression by DZNep may constitute a novel approach for cancer therapy.
Transition from a nucleosome-based to a protamine-based chromatin configuration during spermiogenesis in Drosophila.	In higher organisms, the chromatin of sperm is organised in a highly condensed protamine-based structure. In pre-meiotic stages and shortly after meiosis, histones carry multiple modifications. Here, we focus on post-meiotic stages and show that also after meiosis, histone H3 shows a high overall methylation of K9 and K27 and we hypothesise that these modifications ensure maintenance of transcriptional silencing in the haploid genome. Furthermore, we show that histones are lost during the early canoe stage and that just before this stage, hyper-acetylation of histone H4 and mono-ubiquitylation of histone H2A occurs. We believe that these histone modifications within the histone-based chromatin architecture may lead to better access of enzymes and chromatin remodellers. This notion is supported by the presence of the architectural protein CTCF, numerous DNA breaks, SUMO, UbcD6 and high content of ubiquitin, as well as testes-specific nuclear proteasomes at this time. Moreover, we report the first transition protein-like chromosomal protein, Tpl(94D), to be found in Drosophila. We propose that Tpl(94D)--an HMG box protein--and the numerous DNA breaks facilitate chromatin unwinding as a prelude to protamine and Mst77F deposition. Finally, we show that histone modifications and removal are independent of protamine synthesis.
Functions of the histone chaperone nucleolin in diseases.	Alteration of nuclear morphology is often used by pathologist as diagnostic marker for malignancies like cancer. In particular, the staining of cells by the silver staining methods (AgNOR) has been proved to be an important tool for predicting the clinical outcome of some cancer diseases. Two major argyrophilic proteins responsible for the strong staining of cells in interphase are the nucleophosmin (B23) and the nucleolin (C23) nucleolar proteins. Interestingly these two proteins have been described as chromatin associated proteins with histone chaperone activities and also as proteins able to regulate chromatin transcription. Nucleolin seems to be over-expressed in highly proliferative cells and is involved in many aspect of gene expression: chromatin remodeling, DNA recombination and replication, RNA transcription by RNA polymerase I and II, rRNA processing, mRNA stabilisation, cytokinesis and apoptosis. Interestingly, nucleolin is also found on the cell surface in a wide range of cancer cells, a property which is being used as a marker for the diagnosis of cancer and for the development of anti-cancer drugs to inhibit proliferation of cancer cells. In addition to its implication in cancer, nucleolin has been described not only as a marker or as a protein being involved in many diseases like viral infections, autoimmune diseases, Alzheimer's disease pathology but also in drug resistance. In this review we will focus on the chromatin associated functions of nucleolin and discuss the functions of nucleolin or its use as diagnostic marker and as a target for therapy
Role of cdk9 in the optimization of expression of the genes regulated by ICP22 of herpes simplex virus 1.	ICP22 is a multifunctional herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) regulatory protein that regulates the accumulation of a subset of late (gamma(2)) proteins exemplified by U(L)38, U(L)41, and U(S)11. ICP22 binds the cyclin-dependent kinase 9 (cdk9) but not cdk7, and this complex in conjunction with viral protein kinases phosphorylates the carboxyl terminus of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) in vitro. The primary function of cdk9 and its partners, the cyclin T variants, is in the elongation of RNA transcripts, although functions related to the initiation and processing of transcripts have also been reported. We report two series of experiments designed to probe the role of cdk9 in infected cells. In the first, infected cells were treated with 5,6-dichloro-1-beta-d-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole (DRB), a specific inhibitor of cdk9. In cells treated with DRB, the major effect was in the accumulation of viral RNAs and proteins regulated by ICP22. The accumulation of alpha, beta, or gamma proteins not regulated by ICP22 was not affected by the drug. The results obtained with DRB were duplicated in cells transfected with small interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting cdk9 mRNAs. Interestingly, DRB and siRNA reduced the levels of ICP22 but not those of other alpha gene products. In addition, cdk9 and ICP22 appeared to colocalize with RNA Pol II in wild-type-virus-infected cells but not in DeltaU(L)13-infected cells. We conclude that cdk9 plays a critical role in the optimization of expression of genes regulated by ICP22 and that one function of cdk9 in HSV-1-infected cells may be to bring ICP22 into the RNA Pol II transcriptional complex.
Transcription of multiple yeast ribosomal DNA genes requires targeting of UAF to the promoter by Uaf30.	Upstream activating factor (UAF) is a multisubunit complex that functions in the activation of ribosomal DNA (rDNA) transcription by RNA polymerase I (Pol I). Cells lacking the Uaf30 subunit of UAF reduce the rRNA synthesis rate by approximately 70% compared to wild-type cells and produce rRNA using both Pol I and Pol II. Miller chromatin spreads demonstrated that even though there is an overall reduction in rRNA synthesis in uaf30 mutants, the active rDNA genes in such strains are overloaded with polymerases. This phenotype was specific to defects in Uaf30, as mutations in other UAF subunits resulted in a complete absence of rDNA genes with high or even modest Pol densities. The lack of Uaf30 prevented UAF from efficiently binding to the rDNA promoter in vivo, leading to an inability to activate a large number of rDNA genes. The relatively few genes that did become activated were highly transcribed, apparently to compensate for the reduced rRNA synthesis capacity. The results show that Uaf30p is a key targeting factor for the UAF complex that facilitates activation of a large proportion of rDNA genes in the tandem array.
Alterations of lysine modifications on the histone H3 N-tail under drought stress conditions in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Post-translational modification of histone N-tails affects eukaryotic gene activity. In Arabidopsis, the histone modification level correlates with gene activation and repression in vernalization and flowering processes, but there is little information on changes in histone modification status and nucleosome structure under abiotic stresses. We determined the temporal and spatial changes in nucleosome occupancy and levels of H3K4me3, H3K9ac, H3K14ac, H3K23ac and H3K27ac in the histone H3 N-tail on the regions of four Arabidopsis drought stress-inducible genes, RD29A, RD29B, RD20 and At2g20880 [corrected], under drought stress conditions by chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis. We found two types of regulatory mechanisms of nucleosome occupancy function in the drought stress response. For RD29A and RD29B genes, nucleosome occupancy of promoter regions is low compared with that of coding regions, and no notable nucleosome loss occurs under drought stress. In contrast, nucleosome density is gradually decreased in response to drought stress on RD20 and At2g20880 [corrected] genes. Enrichments of H3K4me3 and H3K9ac correlate with gene activation in response to drought stress in all four genes. Interestingly, establishment of H3K4me3 occurs after accumulation of RNAPII on the coding regions of RD29A and At2g20880 [corrected]. Enrichment of H3K23ac and H3K27ac occurs in response to drought stress on the coding regions of RD29B, RD20 and At2g20880 [corrected], but not on the coding region of At2g20880 [corrected]. Our results indicate that histone modifications on the H3 N-tail are altered with gene activation on the coding regions of drought stress-responsive genes under drought stress conditions and that several patterns of nucleosome changes function in the drought stress response.
Drosophila Kismet regulates histone H3 lysine 27 methylation and early elongation by RNA polymerase II.	Polycomb and trithorax group proteins regulate cellular pluripotency and differentiation by maintaining hereditable states of transcription. Many Polycomb and trithorax group proteins have been implicated in the covalent modification or remodeling of chromatin, but how they interact with each other and the general transcription machinery to regulate transcription is not well understood. The trithorax group protein Kismet-L (KIS-L) is a member of the CHD subfamily of chromatin-remodeling factors that plays a global role in transcription by RNA polymerase II (Pol II). Mutations in CHD7, the human counterpart of kis, are associated with CHARGE syndrome, a developmental disorder affecting multiple tissues and organs. To clarify how KIS-L activates gene expression and counteracts Polycomb group silencing, we characterized defects resulting from the loss of KIS-L function in Drosophila. These studies revealed that KIS-L acts downstream of P-TEFb recruitment to stimulate elongation by Pol II. The presence of two chromodomains in KIS-L suggested that its recruitment or function might be regulated by the methylation of histone H3 lysine 4 by the trithorax group proteins ASH1 and TRX. Although we observed significant overlap between the distributions of KIS-L, ASH1, and TRX on polytene chromosomes, KIS-L did not bind methylated histone tails in vitro, and loss of TRX or ASH1 function did not alter the association of KIS-L with chromatin. By contrast, loss of kis function led to a dramatic reduction in the levels of TRX and ASH1 associated with chromatin and was accompanied by increased histone H3 lysine 27 methylation-a modification required for Polycomb group repression. A similar increase in H3 lysine 27 methylation was observed in ash1 and trx mutant larvae. Our findings suggest that KIS-L promotes early elongation and counteracts Polycomb group repression by recruiting the ASH1 and TRX histone methyltransferases to chromatin.
The LPS-induced transcriptional upregulation of the chicken lysozyme locus involves CTCF eviction and noncoding RNA transcription.	Transcription of the lysozyme gene is rapidly induced by proinflammatory stimuli such as treatment with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Here we show that this induction involves both the relief of repression mediated by the enhancer-blocking protein CTCF that binds to a negative regulatory element at -2.4 kb, and the activation of two flanking enhancer elements. The downstream enhancer has promoter activity, and LPS stimulation initiates the transient synthesis of a noncoding RNA (LINoCR) transcribed through the -2.4 kb element. Expression of LINoCR is correlated with IKKalpha recruitment, histone H3 phosphoacetylation in the transcribed region, the repositioning of a nucleosome over the CTCF binding site, and, eventually, CTCF eviction. Each of these events requires transcription elongation. Our data reveal a transcription-dependent mechanism of chromatin remodeling that switches a cis-regulatory region from a repressive to an active conformation.
Conserved sequence motifs in the small subunit of human general transcription factor TFIIE.	A general initiation factor, TFIIE, is essential for transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II in conjunction with other general factors. TFIIE is a heterotetramer containing two subunits of relative molecular mass 57,000 (TFIIE-alpha) and two of 34,000 (TFIIE-beta). TFIIE-beta is required in conjunction with TFIIE-alpha for transcription initiation. Here we report the cloning and expression of a complementary DNA encoding a functional human TFIIE-beta. Recombinant TFIIE-beta could replace the natural TFIIE-beta for transcription in conjunction with TFIIE-alpha. Amino-acid sequence comparisons reveal regions with sequence similarities to: subregion 3 of bacterial sigma factors; a region of RAP30 (the small subunit of TFIIF) with sequence similarity to a sigma-factor subregion implicated in binding to RNA polymerase; and a portion of the basic region-helix-loop-helix motif found in several enhancer-binding proteins. These potential homologies have implications for the role of TFIIE in preinitiation complex assembly and function.
Transcription factor requirement for multiple rounds of initiation by human RNA polymerase II.	We have investigated conditions that allow multiple rounds of transcription initiation from the adenovirus major late promoter in an in vitro system derived from HeLa cell nuclear extracts. Templates containing guanine-free cassettes provided a direct assay for discriminating between reinitiated transcripts and transcripts generated by a first-round of transcription initiations. When reactions were reconstituted with the previously characterized class II transcription factors (TFIIA, TFIIB, TFIID, TFIIE/F), transcription by human RNA polymerase II from the adenovirus major late promoter was essentially restricted to a single round of initiations. Reinitiations at previously transcribed major late templates required an additional activity, designated reinitiation transcription factor (RTF). The RTF activity could be separated from the required transcription initiation factors. Semipurified human RTF also promoted transcription reinitiations at minimal promoters derived from the human c-myc, histone H4, and heat shock 70-kDa protein genes, indicating that the same reinitiation factor may be utilized by many, if not all, genes. The possible role of RTF in regulating the transcription rate of various class II genes is discussed.
Distinct ubiquitin ligases act sequentially for RNA polymerase II polyubiquitylation.	The proteasome degrades proteins modified by polyubiquitylation, so correctly controlled ubiquitylation is crucial to avoid unscheduled proteolysis of essential proteins. The mechanism regulating proteolysis of RNAPII has been controversial since two distinct ubiquitin ligases (E3s), Rsp5 (and its human homologue NEDD4) and Elongin-Cullin complex, have both been shown to be required for its DNA-damage-induced polyubiquitylation. Here we show that these E3s work sequentially in a two-step mechanism. First, Rsp5 adds mono-ubiquitin, or sometimes a ubiquitin chain linked via ubiquitin lysine 63 that does not trigger proteolysis. When produced, the K63 chain can be trimmed to mono-ubiquitylation by an Rsp5-associated ubiquitin protease, Ubp2. Based on this mono-ubiquitin moiety on RNAPII, an Elc1/Cul3 complex then produces a ubiquitin chain linked via lysine 48, which can trigger proteolysis. Likewise, for correct polyubiquitylation of human RNAPII, NEDD4 cooperates with the ElonginA/B/C-Cullin 5 complex. These data indicate that RNAPII polyubiquitylation requires cooperation between distinct, sequentially acting ubiquitin ligases, and raise the intriguing possibility that other members of the large and functionally diverse family of NEDD4-like ubiquitin ligases also require the assistance of a second E3 when targeting proteins for degradation.
Accurate and efficient RNA polymerase II transcription with a soluble nuclear fraction derived from Drosophila embryos.	We describe the preparation and biochemical properties of a soluble nuclear fraction derived from Drosophila embryos. This extract, which can be easily prepared in 2.5 hr, is capable of accurate and efficient RNA polymerase II transcription of a variety of diverse genes from both Drosophila and mammals. With the relatively strong promoter of the Drosophila Krppel gene, it is possible to achieve 20% template usage in a single round of transcription, which is considerably higher than the template usage of approximately 3% seen with standard nuclear extracts. Further, although U small nuclear RNA genes are refractory to transcription with HeLa transcription extracts, the soluble nuclear fraction transcribes a U1 small nuclear RNA gene from Drosophila. Moreover, transcriptional activation by sequence-specific activators can be attained in vitro with the soluble nuclear fraction. The overall transcriptional efficiency appears limited to 0.45 transcript per template of DNA per 30 min, but the mechanism of limitation is not known. The soluble nuclear fraction, which was developed to recreate the environment within the nucleus, should be useful when high efficiencies of RNA polymerase II transcription are desired.
Gene expression in different cell types of aging rat brain.	"Bound" and "free" RNA polymerase activities were assessed in the nuclear fraction of cerebral cortical, neuronal, astroglial, and oligodendroglial cells obtained from rats of young, adult, and old ages. Significant decreases in both the bound and free polymerase II activities were noticed in old brain, as compared to adult brain, in neuronal and oligodendroglial nuclei. In astroglia, only the free polymerase II was found to be affected. No effect of aging could be seen on the activity of bound RNA polymerase I + III. The free RNA polymerase I + III activity was increased from adult to old age in neuronal nuclei, but unchanged in oligodendroglial and astroglial nuclei. The age-dependent reduction in RNA polymerase II was maximum in oligodendroglial cells, whereas it was least, although still significant, in neuronal cells. DNA isolated from old brain was unable to enhance the transcriptional activity when added to chromatin preparations obtained from rat brains of any of the above ages and the "old" chromatin was unable to accept even the "young" DNA as additional exogenous template. It is concluded that the reduced gene expression noticed in old brain nuclei is due to both altered chromatin/DNA structure and inadequate levels of free RNA polymerase II.
Role of the mammalian transcription factors IIF, IIS, and IIX during elongation by RNA polymerase II.	We have used a recently developed system that allows the isolation of complexes competent for RNA polymerase II elongation (E. Bengal, A. Goldring, and Y. Aloni, J. Biol. Chem. 264:18926-18932, 1989). Pulse-labeled transcription complexes were formed at the adenovirus major late promoter with use of HeLa cell extracts. Elongation-competent complexes were purified from most of the proteins present in the extract, as well as from loosely bound elongation factors, by high-salt gel filtration chromatography. We found that under these conditions the nascent RNA was displaced from the DNA during elongation. These column-purified complexes were used to analyze the activities of different transcription factors during elongation by RNA polymerase II. We found that transcription factor IIS (TFIIS), TFIIF, and TFIIX affected the efficiency of elongation through the adenovirus major late promoter attenuation site and a synthetic attenuation site composed of eight T residues. These factors have distinct activities that depend on whether they are added before RNA polymerase has reached the attenuation site or at the time when the polymerase is pausing at the attenuation site. TFIIS was found to have antiattenuation activity, while TFIIF and TFIIX stimulated the rate of elongation. In comparison with TFIIF, TFIIS is loosely bound to the elongation complex. We also found that the activities of the factors are dependent on the nature of the attenuator. These results indicate that at least three factors play a major role during elongation by RNA polymerase II.
An additional promoter functions in the human aldolase A gene, but not in rat.	The aldolase A gene was isolated from a human DNA library, mapped and sequenced. This gene comprises 12 exons and spans 6.5 kb. From the genomic DNA sequence and from the previous sequence analysis of the cDNA, it was revealed that the first exon L1 and the second exon encode the 5' non-coding sequence of mRNA L1, while the third and forth exons (corresponding to exons M and L2) encode different mRNA, mRNA M and L2, respectively; the following eight exons (exons 5-12) are shared commonly by all the mRNA species. These results indicate that the mRNA species are generated from a single aldolase A gene from one of exons L1, M or L2, in addition to exons 5-12, and also that the usage of a leader exon is similar but clearly distinct from that of rat aldolase A gene which we analyzed [Joh, K., Arai, Y., Mukai, T. & Hori, K. (1986) J. Mol. Biol. 190, 401-410]. By comparing the promoter regions in the human and rat aldolase A genes, we found similar sequences in the rat genome corresponding to those of the human L1, M and L2 promoter. We could not, however, detect any transcripts starting from sequences corresponding to the human L1 promoter in the rat genome, although the products corresponding to human M and L2 were detected. Thus, we conclude that the L1 promoter was either acquired by the human genome or deleted from the rat genome after human and rat diverged during evolution.
Inhibitory action of phospholipid-interacting drugs on transcription initiation in a nuclear extract of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells.	Drugs with affinity for phospholipids, such as chlorpromazine, verapamil, tetracaine and imipramine, were found to inhibit accurate transcription from adenovirus 2 major late promoter in a nuclear extract of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells. The transcription activity of the nuclear extract inhibited by chlorpromazine was restored by addition of acidic phospholipids. The nuclear extract was also shown to lose transcription activity when treated with phospholipase A2. Chlorpromazine was found to inhibit transcription at the step of initiation, not elongation. Moreover, it did not affect the activity of purified RNA polymerase II, suggesting the interaction of phospholipids with transcription factors in the nuclear extract. Some transcription factors in the nuclear extract were found to have affinity for cardiolipin, and were precipitated with excess cardiolipin. The transcription factors precipitated with cardiolipin could be solubilized with guanidine hydrochloride, and restored the transcription activity of the cardiolipin-treated nuclear extract.
Transcription-induced nucleosome 'splitting': an underlying structure for DNase I sensitive chromatin.	Utilizing yeast strains containing promoter mutations, we demonstrate that transcription of the HSP82 gene causes nucleosomes toward the 3'-end to become DNase I sensitive and 'split' into structures that exhibit a 'half-nucleosomal' cleavage periodicity. Splitting occurs even when only a few RNA polymerase II molecules are engaged in basal level transcription or during the first round of induced transcription. The split nucleosomal structure survives nuclear isolation suggesting that it may be stabilized by post-translational modifications or non-histone proteins, and may require DNA replication for reversal to a whole nucleosomal structure. Split nucleosomes represent a structure for DNase I sensitive chromatin and are probably of common occurrence but difficult to detect experimentally. We suggest that transient positive supercoils downstream of traversing RNA polymerase lead to nucleosome splitting.
Progressive histone alterations and proinflammatory gene activation: consequences of heme protein/iron-mediated proximal tubule injury.	Rhabdomyolysis (Fe)-induced acute renal failure (ARF) causes renal inflammation, and, with repetitive insults, progressive renal failure can result. To gain insights into these phenomena, we assessed the impact of a single episode of glycerol-induced rhabdomyolysis on proinflammatory/profibrotic [TNF-alpha, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), and transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1)] gene expression and the time course of these changes. CD-1 mice were studied 1-7 days after glycerol injection. Normal mice served as controls. RNA polymerase II (Pol II) binding to the TNF-alpha, MCP-1, and TGF-beta1 genes, "gene-activating" histone modifications [histone 3 lysine 4 (H3K4) trimethylation (H3K4m3) and histone 2 variant H2A.Z], and cognate mRNA levels were assessed. Results were contrasted to changes in anti-inflammatory heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). Glycerol produced severe ARF (blood urea nitrogen approximately 150-180 mg/dl) followed by marked improvement by day 7 (blood urea nitrogen approximately 40 mg/dl). Early increases in TNF-alpha, MCP-1, and TGF-beta1 mRNAs, Pol II gene binding, and H3K4m3/H2A.Z levels were observed. These progressed with time, despite resolution of azotemia. Comparable early HO-1 changes were observed. However, HO-1 mRNA normalized by day 7, and progressive Pol II binding/histone alterations did not occur. Fe-mediated injury to cultured proximal tubule (HK-2) cells recapitulated these in vivo results. Hence, this in vitro model was used for mechanistic assessments. On the basis of these studies, it was determined that 1) the H3K4m3/H2A.Z increases are early events (i.e., they precede mRNA increases), 2) subsequent mRNA elevations reflect transcription, not mRNA stabilization (actinomycin D assessments), and 3) increased transcription, per se, helps sustain elevated H2A.Z levels. We conclude that 1) Fe/glycerol-induced tubular injury causes sustained proinflammatory gene activation, 2) decreasing HO-1 expression, as reflected by mRNA levels, may facilitate this proinflammatory state, and 3) gene-activating histone modifications are early injury events and progressively increase at selected proinflammatory genes. Thus they may help sustain a proinflammatory state, despite resolving ARF.
Differential introduction of DNA damage and repair in mammalian genes transcribed by RNA polymerases I and II.	We have developed a general quantitative method for comparing the levels of drug-induced DNA crosslinking in specific mammalian genes. We observed a dramatic difference between the efficiency of the removal of both psoralen monoadducts and interstrand crosslinks from the rRNA genes and the efficiency of their removal from the dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) gene in cultured human and hamster cells. While 90% of the interstand crosslinks were removed from the human DHFR gene in 48 h, less than 25% repair occurred in the rRNA genes. Similarly, in Chinese hamster ovary cells, 85% repair of interstrand crosslinks occurred within 8 h in the DHFR gene versus only 20% repair in the rRNA genes. The preferential repair of the DHFR gene relative to that of the rRNA genes was also observed for psoralen monoadducts in cells from both mammalian species. In human-mouse hybrid cells, the active mouse rRNA genes were five times more susceptible to psoralen modification than are the silent rRNA human genes, but adduct removal was similarly inefficient for both classes. We conclude that the repair of chemical damage such as psoralen photoadducts in an expressed mammalian gene may depend upon the class of transcription to which it belongs.
Structure and activity of putative intronic miRNA promoters.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are RNA sequences of approximately 22 nucleotides that mediate post-transcriptional regulation of specific mRNAs. miRNA sequences are dispersed throughout the genome and are classified as intergenic (between genes) or intronic (embedded into a gene). Intergenic miRNAs are expressed by their own promoter, and until recently, it was supposed that intronic miRNAs are transcribed from their host gene. Here, we performed a genomic analysis of currently known intronic miRNA regions and observed that approximately 35% of intronic miRNAs have upstream regulatory elements consistent with promoter function. Among all intronic miRNAs, 30% have associated Pol II regulatory elements, including transcription start sites, CpG islands, expression sequence tags, and conserved transcription factor binding sites, while 5% contain RNA Pol III regulatory elements (A/B box sequences). We cloned intronic regions encompassing miRNAs and their upstream Pol II (miR-107, miR-126, miR-208b, miR-548f-2, miR-569, and miR-590) or Pol III (miR-566 and miR-128-2) sequences into a promoterless plasmid, and confirmed that miRNA expression occurs independent of host gene transcription. For miR-128-2, a miRNA overexpressed in acute lymphoblastic leukemia, ChIP analysis suggests dual regulation by both intronic (Pol III) and host gene (Pol II) promoters. These data support complex regulation of intronic miRNA expression, and have relevance to disregulation in disease settings.
RECQL5 helicase: connections to DNA recombination and RNA polymerase II transcription.	The RecQ family of helicases are traditionally viewed as recombination factors, important for maintaining genome stability. RECQL5 is unique among these proteins in being associated with RNA polymerase II, the enzyme responsible for transcribing all protein-encoding genes in eukaryotes. Here, we describe the possible implications of recent studies and discuss models for RECQL5 function.
Noncooperative interactions between transcription factors and clustered DNA binding sites enable graded transcriptional responses to environmental inputs.	A paradigm in transcriptional regulation is that graded increases in transcription factor (TF) concentration are translated into on/off transcriptional responses by cooperative TF binding to adjacent sites. Digital transcriptional responses underlie the definition of anatomical boundaries during development. Here we show that NF-kappaB, a TF controlling inflammation and immunity, is conversely an analog transcriptional regulator that uses clustered binding sites noncooperatively. We observed that increasing concentrations of NF-kappaB are translated into gradual increments in gene transcription. We provide a thermodynamic interpretation of the experimental observations by combining quantitative measurements and a minimal physical model of an NF-kappaB-dependent promoter. We demonstrate that NF-kappaB binds independently to adjacent sites to promote additive RNA Pol II recruitment and graded transcriptional outputs. These findings reveal an alternative mode of operation of clustered TF binding sites, which might function in biological conditions where the transcriptional output is proportional to the strength of an environmental input.
Lsh mediated RNA polymerase II stalling at HoxC6 and HoxC8 involves DNA methylation.	DNA cytosine methylation is an important epigenetic mechanism that is involved in transcriptional silencing of developmental genes. Several molecular pathways have been described that interfere with Pol II initiation, but at individual genes the molecular mechanism of repression remains uncertain. Here, we study the molecular mechanism of transcriptional regulation at Hox genes in dependence of the epigenetic regulator Lsh that controls CpG methylation at selected Hox genes. Wild type cells show a nucleosomal deprived region around the transcriptional start site at methylated Hox genes and mediate gene silencing via Pol II stalling. Hypomethylation in Lsh-/- cells is associated with efficient transcriptional elongation and splicing, in part mediated by the chromodomain protein Chd1. Dynamic modulation of DNA methylation in Lsh-/- and wild type cells demonstrates that catalytically active DNA methyltransferase activity is required for Pol II stalling. Taken together, the data suggests that DNA methylation can be compatible with Pol II binding at selected genes and Pol II stalling can act as alternate mechanism to explain transcriptional silencing associated with DNA methylation.
Temporal ChIP-on-Chip of RNA-Polymerase-II to detect novel gene activation events during photoreceptor maturation.	During retinal development, post-mitotic neural progenitor cells must activate thousands of genes to complete synaptogenesis and terminal maturation. While many of these genes are known, others remain beyond the sensitivity of expression microarray analysis. Some of these elusive gene activation events can be detected by mapping changes in RNA polymerase-II (Pol-II) association around transcription start sites.
Laminar shear stress modulates phosphorylation and localization of RNA polymerase II on the endothelial nitric oxide synthase gene.	In endothelial cells exposed to unidirectional laminar shear stress, endothelial nitric oxide synthase transcription (eNOS), mRNA stability, and protein levels are enhanced. We have previously demonstrated that these changes are associated with increased 3' polyadenylation of eNOS mRNA. Here, we investigated the effect of laminar shear stress on the phosphorylation and localization of RNA polymerase (Pol) II, the enzyme primarily responsible for coordinating transcription and posttranscriptional processing.
Genome-wide identification of binding sites defines distinct functions for Caenorhabditis elegans PHA-4/FOXA in development and environmental response.	Transcription factors are key components of regulatory networks that control development, as well as the response to environmental stimuli. We have established an experimental pipeline in Caenorhabditis elegans that permits global identification of the binding sites for transcription factors using chromatin immunoprecipitation and deep sequencing. We describe and validate this strategy, and apply it to the transcription factor PHA-4, which plays critical roles in organ development and other cellular processes. We identified thousands of binding sites for PHA-4 during formation of the embryonic pharynx, and also found a role for this factor during the starvation response. Many binding sites were found to shift dramatically between embryos and starved larvae, from developmentally regulated genes to genes involved in metabolism. These results indicate distinct roles for this regulator in two different biological processes and demonstrate the versatility of transcription factors in mediating diverse biological roles.
The human PAF1 complex acts in chromatin transcription elongation both independently and cooperatively with SII/TFIIS.	Genetic and cell-based studies have implicated the PAF1 complex (PAF1C) in transcription-associated events, but there has been no evidence showing a direct role in facilitating transcription of a natural chromatin template. Here, we demonstrate an intrinsic ability of human PAF1C (hPAF1C) to facilitate activator (p53)- and histone acetyltransferase (p300)-dependent transcription elongation from a recombinant chromatin template in a biochemically defined RNA polymerase II transcription system. This represents a PAF1C function distinct from its established role in histone ubiquitylation and methylation. Importantly, we further demonstrate a strong synergy between hPAF1C and elongation factor SII/TFIIS and an underlying mechanism involving direct hPAF1C-SII interactions and cooperative binding to RNA polymerase II. Apart from a distinct PAF1C function, the present observations provide a molecular mechanism for the cooperative function of distinct transcription elongation factors in chromatin transcription.
The block to transcription elongation at the minute virus of mice attenuator is regulated by cellular elongation factors.	We have previously reported that both in vivo and in vitro, RNA polymerase II pauses or prematurely terminates transcription at a specific attenuation site located 142 to 147 nucleotides downstream from the P4 promoter of minute virus of mice (MVM). In this report, we show that an in vitro block to transcription elongation in HeLa whole-cell extract occurs at elevated KCl concentrations (0.2 to 1.5 M) but not at the standard KCl concentration (50 mM). Briefly initiated transcription complexes, devoid of dissociated elongation factors by passage through a Sephacryl S-1000 column at 0.3 M KCl, were allowed to elongate the briefly initiated nascent RNA, and a block to transcription elongation at the attenuation site was observed independently of the KCl concentration at the time of elongation. Moreover, the block to elongation was overcome by the addition, during elongation, to the column of purified complexes of whole-cell extract from EA cells but not from MVM-infected EA cells or HeLa cells. The general transcription factors IIF and IIX were also shown to alleviate this block to transcription elongation. On the basis of these results, we suggest that the block to elongation at the MVM attenuation site observed late in MVM infection results, at least in part, from the inactivation of the general transcription elongation factors.
Association of cyclic GMP with gene expression of polytene chromosomes of Drosophila melanogaster.	The distribution of cyclic nucleotides on polytene chromosomes isolated from Drosophilia melanogaster salivary glands was examined by using an indirect immunofluorescent technique. With a fixative that minimized the loss of chromosomal proteins, cyclic GMP, but not cyclic AMP, was observed distributed along the chromosomes. The subchromosomal distribution of cyclic GMP correlated with genetically active sites on the chromosomes. After heat-shock treatments, the intensity of cyclic GMP fluorescence was markedly enhanced at specific loci on the chromosomes, with locus 93D as the most intensely fluorescent. Autoradiographic analysis with [3H]uridine revealed that 93D was the most transcriptionally active locus within a particular nucleus. These observations suggest that cyclic GMP may participate in processes associated with transcription on polytene chromosomes. The involvement of cyclic GMP in nuclear events associated with gene expression is discussed.
The linker domain of basal transcription factor TFIIB controls distinct recruitment and transcription stimulation functions.	RNA polymerases (RNAPs) require basal transcription factors to assist them during transcription initiation. One of these factors, TFIIB, combines promoter recognition, recruitment of RNAP, promoter melting, start site selection and various post-initiation functions. The ability of 381 site-directed mutants in the TFIIB 'linker domain' to stimulate abortive transcription was systematically quantitated using promoter-independent dinucleotide extension assays. The results revealed two distinct clusters (mjTFIIB E78-R80 and mjTFIIB R90-G94, respectively) that were particularly sensitive to substitutions. In contrast, a short sequence (mjTFIIB A81-K89) between these two clusters tolerated radical single amino acid substitutions; short deletions in that region even caused a marked increase in the ability of TFIIB to stimulate abortive transcription ('superstimulation'). The superstimulating activity did, however, not correlate with increased recruitment of the TFIIB/RNAP complex because substitutions in a particular residue (mjTFIIB K87) increased recruitment by more than 5-fold without affecting the rate of abortive transcript stimulation. Our work demonstrates that highly localized changes within the TFIIB linker have profound, yet surprisingly disconnected, effects on RNAP recruitment, TFIIB/RNAP complex stability and the rate of transcription initiation. The identification of superstimulating TFIIB variants reveals the existence of a previously unknown rate-limiting step acting on the earliest stages of gene expression.
Human AP endonuclease (APE1/Ref-1) and its acetylation regulate YB-1-p300 recruitment and RNA polymerase II loading in the drug-induced activation of multidrug resistance gene MDR1.	The overexpression of human apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) endonuclease 1 (APE1/Ref-1), a key enzyme in the DNA base excision repair (BER) pathway, is often associated with tumor cell resistance to various anticancer drugs. In this study, we examined the molecular basis of transcriptional regulatory (nonrepair) function of APE1 in promoting resistance to certain types of drugs. We have recently shown that APE1 stably interacts with Y-box-binding protein 1 (YB-1), and acts as its coactivator for the expression of multidrug resistance gene MDR1, thereby causing drug resistance. In this study, we show, to the best of our knowledge, for the first time that APE1 is stably associated with the basic transcription factor RNA polymerase II (RNA pol II) and the coactivator p300 on the endogenous MDR1 promoter. The depletion of APE1 significantly reduces YB-1-p300 recruitment to the promoter, resulting in reduced RNA pol II loading. Drug-induced APE1 acetylation, which is mediated by p300, enhances formation of acetylated APE1 (AcAPE1)-YB-1-p300 complex on the MDR1 promoter. Enhanced recruitment of this complex increases MDR1 promoter-dependent luciferase activity and its endogenous expression. Using APE1-downregulated cells and cells overexpressing wild-type APE1 or its nonacetylable mutant, we have demonstrated that the loss of APE1's acetylation impaired MDR1 activation and sensitizes the cells to cisplatin or etoposide. We have thus established the basis for APE1's acetylation-dependent regulatory function in inducing MDR1-mediated drug resistance.
Cajal bodies and histone locus bodies in Drosophila and Xenopus.	The organization of the cell nucleus into specialized compartments is important for nuclear function. We address the significance of compartmentalization by studying the Cajal body, an evolutionarily conserved nuclear organelle proposed to be involved in such diverse functions as assembly of the spliceosome, assembly of the transcription machinery, and modification of spliceosomal small nuclear RNAs. The Cajal body is typically identified by the presence of coilin, a protein of poorly defined function. Here, we demonstrate that coilin is not a unique Cajal body marker but also occurs in a related yet distinct nuclear organelle known as the histone locus body in both Drosophila and Xenopus. We stress the importance of multiple markers not only for identification of nuclear bodies but also for assessing their functional significance.
Poly(A) signals located near the 5' end of genes are silenced by a general mechanism that prevents premature 3'-end processing.	Poly(A) signals located at the 3' end of eukaryotic genes drive cleavage and polyadenylation at the same end of pre-mRNA. Although these sequences are expected only at the 3' end of genes, we found that strong poly(A) signals are also predicted within the 5' untranslated regions (UTRs) of many Drosophila melanogaster mRNAs. Most of these 5' poly(A) signals have little influence on the processing of the endogenous transcripts, but they are very active when placed at the 3' end of reporter genes. In investigating these unexpected observations, we discovered that both these novel poly(A) signals and standard poly(A) signals become functionally silent when they are positioned close to transcription start sites in either Drosophila or human cells. This indicates that the stage when the poly(A) signal emerges from the polymerase II (Pol II) transcription complex determines whether a putative poly(A) signal is recognized as functional. The data suggest that this mechanism, which probably prevents cryptic poly(A) signals from causing premature transcription termination, depends on low Ser2 phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain of Pol II and inefficient recruitment of processing factors.
The chromodomains of CHD1 are critical for enzymatic activity but less important for chromatin localization.	The molecular motor protein CHD1 has been implicated in the regulation of transcription and in the transcription-independent genome-wide incorporation of H3.3 into paternal chromatin in Drosophila melanogaster. A key feature of CHD1 is the presence of two chromodomains, which can bind to histone H3 methylated at lysine 4 and thus might serve to recruit and/or maintain CHD1 at the chromatin. Here, we describe genetic and biochemical approaches to the study of the Drosophila CHD1 chromodomains. We found that overall localization of CHD1 on polytene chromosomes does not appreciably change in chromodomain-mutant flies. In contrast, the chromodomains are important for transcription-independent activities of CHD1 during early embryonic development as well as for transcriptional regulation of several heat shock genes. However, neither CHD1 nor its chromodomains are needed for RNA polymerase II localization and H3K4 methylation but loss of CHD1 decreases transcription-induced histone eviction at the Hsp70 gene in vivo. Chromodomain mutations negatively affect the chromatin assembly activities of CHD1 in vitro, and they appear to be involved in linking the ATP-dependent motor to the chromatin assembly function of CHD1.
Specific histone lysine 4 methylation patterns define TR-binding capacity and differentiate direct T3 responses.	The diversity of thyroid hormone T(3) effects in vivo makes their molecular analysis particularly challenging. Indeed, the current model of the action of T(3) and its receptors on transcription does not reflect this diversity. Here, T(3)-dependent amphibian metamorphosis was exploited to investigate, in an in vivo developmental context, how T(3) directly regulates gene expression. Two, direct positively regulated T(3)-response genes encoding transcription factors were analyzed: thyroid hormone receptor  (TR) and TH/bZIP. Reverse transcription-real-time quantitative PCR analysis on Xenopus tropicalis tadpole brain and tail fin showed differences in expression levels in premetamorphic tadpoles (lower for TH/bZIP than for TR) and differences in induction after T(3) treatment (lower for TR than for TH/bZIP). To dissect the mechanisms underlying these differences, chromatin immunoprecipitation was used. T(3) differentially induced RNA polymerase II and histone tail acetylation as a function of transcriptional level. Gene-specific patterns of TR binding were found on the different T(3) -responsive elements (higher for TR than for TH/bZIP), correlated with gene-specific modifications of H3K4 methylation (higher for TR than for TH/bZIP). Moreover, tissue-specific modifications of H3K27 were found (lower in brain than in tail fin). This first in vivo analysis of the association of histone modifications and TR binding/gene activation during vertebrate development for any nuclear receptor indicate that chromatin context of thyroid-responsive elements loci controls the capacity to bind TR through variations in histone H3K4 methylation, and that the histone code, notably H3, contributes to the fine tuning of gene expression that underlies complex physiological T(3) responses.
HDAC activity is required for efficient core promoter function at the mouse mammary tumor virus promoter.	Histone deacetylases (HDACs) have been shown to be required for basal or inducible transcription at a variety of genes by poorly understood mechanisms. We demonstrated previously that HDAC inhibition rapidly repressed transcription from the mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) promoter by a mechanism that does not require the binding of upstream transcription factors. In the current study, we find that HDACs work through the core promoter sequences of MMTV as well as those of several cellular genes to facilitate transcriptional initiation through deacetylation of nonhistone proteins.
The menin tumor suppressor protein is phosphorylated in response to DNA damage.	Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is a heritable cancer syndrome characterized by tumors of the pituitary, pancreas and parathyroid. Menin, the product of the MEN1 gene, is a tumor suppressor protein that functions in part through the regulation of transcription mediated by interactions with chromatin modifying enzymes.
The in vivo kinetics of RNA polymerase II elongation during co-transcriptional splicing.	RNA processing events that take place on the transcribed pre-mRNA include capping, splicing, editing, 3' processing, and polyadenylation. Most of these processes occur co-transcriptionally while the RNA polymerase II (Pol II) enzyme is engaged in transcriptional elongation. How Pol II elongation rates are influenced by splicing is not well understood. We generated a family of inducible gene constructs containing increasing numbers of introns and exons, which were stably integrated in human cells to serve as actively transcribing gene loci. By monitoring the association of the transcription and splicing machineries on these genes in vivo, we showed that only U1 snRNP localized to the intronless gene, consistent with a splicing-independent role for U1 snRNP in transcription. In contrast, all snRNPs accumulated on intron-containing genes, and increasing the number of introns increased the amount of spliceosome components recruited. This indicates that nascent RNA can assemble multiple spliceosomes simultaneously. Kinetic measurements of Pol II elongation in vivo, Pol II ChIP, as well as use of Spliceostatin and Meayamycin splicing inhibitors showed that polymerase elongation rates were uncoupled from ongoing splicing. This study shows that transcription elongation kinetics proceed independently of splicing at the model genes studied here. Surprisingly, retention of polyadenylated mRNA was detected at the transcription site after transcription termination. This suggests that the polymerase is released from chromatin prior to the completion of splicing, and the pre-mRNA is post-transcriptionally processed while still tethered to chromatin near the gene end.
Elimination of a specific histone H3K14 acetyltransferase complex bypasses the RNAi pathway to regulate pericentric heterochromatin functions.	In Schizosaccharomyces pombe, the RNAi pathway is required for the formation of pericentric heterochromatin, proper chromosome segregation, and repression of pericentric meiotic recombination. Here we demonstrate that, when the activity of the histone H3 Lys 14 (H3K14) acetyltransferase Mst2 is eliminated, the RNAi machinery is no longer required for pericentric heterochromatin functions. We further reveal that reducing RNA polymerase II recruitment to pericentric regions is essential for maintaining heterochromatin in the absence of RNAi.
Mechanism of histone survival during transcription by RNA polymerase II.	This work is related to and stems from our recent NSMB paper, "Mechanism of chromatin remodeling and recovery during passage of RNA polymerase II" (December 2009). Synopsis. Recent genomic studies from many laboratories have suggested that nucleosomes are not displaced from moderately transcribed genes. Furthermore, histones H3/H4 carrying the primary epigenetic marks are not displaced or exchanged (in contrast to H2A/H2B histones) during moderate transcription by RNA polymerase II (Pol II) in vivo. These exciting observations suggest that the large molecule of Pol II passes through chromatin structure without even transient displacement of H3/H4 histones. The most recent analysis of the RNA polymerase II (Pol II)-type mechanism of chromatin remodeling in vitro (described in our NSMB 2009 paper) suggests that nucleosome survival is tightly coupled with formation of a novel intermediate: a very small intranucleosomal DNA loop (-loop) containing transcribing Pol II. In the submitted manuscript we critically evaluate one of the key predictions of this model: the lack of even transient displacement of histones H3/H4 during Pol II transcription in vitro. The data suggest that, indeed, histones H3/H4 are not displaced during Pol II transcription in vitro. These studies are directly connected with the observation in vivo on the lack of exchange of histones H3/H4 during Pol II transcription.
Novel domains in the hnRNP G/RBMX protein with distinct roles in RNA binding and targeting nascent transcripts.	The heterogenous nuclear ribonucleoprotein G (hnRNP G) controls the alternative splicing of several pre-mRNas. While hnRNP G displays an amino terminal RNA recognition motif (RRM), we find that this motif is paradoxically not implicated in the recruitment of hnRNP G to nascent transcripts in amphibian oocytes. In fact, a deletion analysis revealed that targeting of hnRNP G to active transcription units depends on another domain, centrally positioned, and consisting of residues 186-236. We show that this domain acts autonomously and thus is named NTD for nascent transcripts targeting domain. Furthermore, using an RNA probe previously characterized in vitro as an RNA that interacts specifically with hnRNP G, we demonstrate a new auxiliary RNA binding domain (RBD). It corresponds to a short region of 58 residues positioned at the carboxyl terminal end of the protein, which recognizes an RNA motif predicted to adopt an hairpin structure. The fact that the NTD acts independently from both the RRM and the RBD strongly suggests that the initial recruitment of hnRNP G to nascent pre-mRNAs is independent of its sequence-specific RNA binding properties. Together, these findings highlight the modular organization of hnRNP G and offer new insights into its multifunctional roles.
CDK8: a positive regulator of transcription.	CDK8 belongs to a group of cyclin-dependent kinases involved in transcriptional regulation from yeast to mammals. CDK8 associates with the Mediator complex, but functions outside of Mediator are also likely. Historically, CDK8 has been described mostly as a transcriptional repressor, but a growing body of research provides unequivocal evidence for various roles of CDK8 in gene activation. Several transcriptional programs of biomedical importance employ CDK8 as a co-activator, including the p53 network, the Wnt/-catenin pathway, the serum response network, and those governed by SMADs and the thyroid hormone receptor, thus highlighting the importance of further investigation into this enigmatic transcriptional regulator.
The impact of transcriptional cycling on gene regulation.	Research of the past decade showed that transcriptional regulation could be a highly dynamic and cyclical process. Many transcription factors and their co-regulators cyclically associate with a periodicity of 30-75 min with regulatory chromatin regions resulting in dynamically changing chromatin marks and cyclical activities of RNA polymerase II in mRNA synthesis.
Maternal protein restriction elevates cholesterol in adult rat offspring due to repressive changes in histone modifications at the cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase promoter.	Adverse events in utero, such as intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR), can permanently alter epigenetic mechanisms leading to the metabolic syndrome, which encompasses a variety of symptoms including augmented cholesterol. The major site for cholesterol homeostasis occurs via the actions of hepatic cholesterol 7-hydroxylase (Cyp7a1), which catabolizes cholesterol to bile acids. To determine whether posttranslational histone modifications influence the long-term expression of Cyp7a1 in IUGR, we used a protein restriction model in rats. This diet during pregnancy and lactation led to IUGR offspring with decreased liver to body weight ratios, followed by increased circulating and hepatic cholesterol levels in both sexes at d 21 and exclusively in the male offspring at d 130. The augmented cholesterol was associated with decreases in the expression of Cyp7a1. Chromatin immunoprecipitation revealed that this was concomitant with diminished acetylation and enhanced methylation of histone H3 lysine 9 [K9,14], markers of chromatin silencing, surrounding the promoter region of Cyp7a1. These epigenetic modifications originate in part due to dietary-induced decreases in fetal hepatic Jmjd2a expression, a histone H3 [K9] demethylase. Collectively, these findings suggest that the augmented cholesterol observed in low-protein diet-derived offspring is due to permanent repressive posttranslational histone modifications at the promoter of Cyp7a1. Moreover, this is the first study to demonstrate that maternal undernutrition leads to long-term cholesterol dysregulation in the offspring via epigenetic mechanisms.
PTGS2 (prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase-2) expression in term human amnion in vivo involves rapid mRNA turnover, polymerase-II 5'-pausing, and glucocorticoid transrepression.	The in vivo role of glucocorticoids in controlling prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase-2 (PTGS2) expression in the human amnion is unclear despite extensive studies using in vitro models. We addressed this issue by determining PTGS2 mRNA levels and gene transcriptional activity, RNA polymerase-II (pol-II) binding, pol-II C-terminal domain (CTD) phosphorylation, histone acetylation, and histone methylation at the PTGS2 gene in fresh amnion and in amnion explants incubated with dexamethasone for 24 h after delivery, when adaptation from in vivo to in vitro conditions occurred. PTGS2 mRNA turnover changed during incubation involving the initial rapid decrease and subsequent rebound of the transcription rate and stabilization of mRNA. pol-II accumulated in the 5'-region of the gene, which indicated postinitiation pausing. pol-II binding, 5'-accumulation, C-terminal domain Ser-5 and Ser-2 phosphorylation, and histone acetylation decreased rapidly and did not reverse during the transcriptional rebound, suggesting that the transcriptional mechanism altered in vitro. Dexamethasone decreased PTGS2 gene activity and mRNA levels. Glucocorticoid receptor- (GR) was bound to the PTGS2 promoter but did not affect pol-II recruitment, pausing, or the epigenetic marks. GR binding, however, decreased initiating (Ser-5) and elongating (Ser-2) pol-II phosphorylation. The ability of the PTGS2 promoter to bind GR in response to dexamethasone diminished during incubation. We conclude that PTGS2 mRNA turnover is accelerated in vivo, but the underlying mechanisms are not sustained beyond 24 h in explants. Glucocorticoids chronically transrepress PTGS2 gene activity in vivo in part by interfering with transcription initiation and elongation. Glucocorticoid transrepression of PTGS2 may be important for pregnancy maintenance and the timing of parturition.
Novel potent pharmacological cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors.	Progression of the cell cycle is controlled by various activating and inhibiting cellular factors. The subtle balance between these counteracting regulators in normal cells ensures proper cell cycle progression and facilitates cellular responses to a variety of stress stimuli. Key activators include cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) and, consequently, loss or inactivation of CDK inhibitors contributes to the escape of cancer cells from cell cycle control and hyperactivation of CDKs occurs in various neurodegenerative disorders. However, these adverse effects may be compensated by pharmacological counterparts. Inhibitors of CDKs representing various classes of compounds with diverse CDK inhibitory patterns have been developed, but inhibitors that have high selectivity and offer highly targeted activity against both cell cycle and transcriptional CDKs are of particular interest. This review focuses on pharmacological CDK inhibitors that have entered clinical trials and some compounds that have been evaluated preclinically. Recent discoveries in cell cycle regulation have provided rationales for clinical applications of CDK inhibitors in both monotherapeutic and combined therapeutic regimens.
The anaphase-promoting complex is a dual integrator that regulates both MicroRNA-mediated transcriptional regulation of cyclin B1 and degradation of Cyclin B1 during Arabidopsis male gametophyte development.	The anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), an essential ubiquitin protein ligase, regulates mitotic progression and exit by enhancing degradation of cell cycle regulatory proteins, such as CYCB1;1, whose transcripts are upregulated by DUO POLLEN1 (DUO1). DUO1 is required for cell division in male gametophytes and is a target of microRNA 159 (miR159) in Arabidopsis thaliana. Whether APC/C is required for DUO1-dependent CYCB1;1 regulation is unknown. Mutants in both APC8 and APC13 had pleiotrophic phenotypes resembling those of mutants affecting microRNA biogenesis. We show that these apc/c mutants had reduced miR159 levels and increased DUO1 and CYCB1;1 transcript levels and that APC/C is required to recruit RNA polymerase II to MIR159 promoters. Thus, in addition to its role in degrading CYCB1;1, APC/C stimulates production of miR159, which downregulates DUO1 expression, leading to reduced CYCB1;1 transcription. Both MIR159 and APC8-yellow fluorescent protein accumulated in unicellular microspores and bicellular pollen but decreased in tricellular pollen, suggesting that spatial and temporal regulation of miR159 by APC/C ensures mitotic progression. Consistent with this, the percentage of mature pollen with no or single sperm-like cells increased in apc/c mutants and plants overexpressing APC8 partially mimicked the duo1 phenotype. Thus, APC/C is an integrator that regulates both microRNA-mediated transcriptional regulation of CYCB1;1 and degradation of CYCB1;1.
Unravelling the means to an end: RNA polymerase II transcription termination.	The pervasiveness of RNA synthesis in eukaryotes is largely the result of RNA polymerase II (Pol II)-mediated transcription, and termination of its activity is necessary to partition the genome and maintain the proper expression of neighbouring genes. Despite its ever-increasing biological significance, transcription termination remains one of the least understood processes in gene expression. However, recent mechanistic studies have revealed a striking convergence among several overlapping models of termination, including the poly(A)- and Sen1-dependent pathways, as well as new insights into the specificity of Pol II termination among its diverse gene targets. Broader knowledge of the role of Pol II carboxy-terminal domain phosphorylation in promoting alternative mechanisms of termination has also been gained.
SON controls cell-cycle progression by coordinated regulation of RNA splicing.	It has been suspected that cell-cycle progression might be functionally coupled with RNA processing. However, little is known about the role of the precise splicing control in cell-cycle progression. Here, we report that SON, a large Ser/Arg (SR)-related protein, is a splicing cofactor contributing to efficient splicing of cell-cycle regulators. Downregulation of SON leads to severe impairment of spindle pole separation, microtubule dynamics, and genome integrity. These molecular defects result from inadequate RNA splicing of a specific set of cell-cycle-related genes that possess weak splice sites. Furthermore, we show that SON facilitates the interaction of SR proteins with RNA polymerase II and other key spliceosome components, suggesting its function in efficient cotranscriptional RNA processing. These results reveal a mechanism for controlling cell-cycle progression through SON-dependent constitutive splicing at suboptimal splice sites, with strong implications for its role in cancer and other human diseases.
Real-time observation of transcription initiation and elongation on an endogenous yeast gene.	Cellular messenger RNA levels are achieved by the combinatorial complexity of factors controlling transcription, yet the small number of molecules involved in these pathways fluctuates stochastically. It has not yet been experimentally possible to observe the activity of single polymerases on an endogenous gene to elucidate how these events occur in vivo. Here, we describe a method of fluctuation analysis of fluorescently labeled RNA to measure dynamics of nascent RNA--including initiation, elongation, and termination--at an active yeast locus. We find no transcriptional memory between initiation events, and elongation speed can vary by threefold throughout the cell cycle. By measuring the abundance and intranuclear mobility of an upstream transcription factor, we observe that the gene firing rate is directly determined by trans-activating factor search times.
The AP-1 binding sites located in the pol gene intragenic regulatory region of HIV-1 are important for viral replication.	Our laboratory has previously identified an important intragenic region in the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) genome, whose complete functional unit is composed of the 5103 fragment, the DNaseI-hypersensitive site HS7 and the 5105 fragment. These fragments (5103 and 5105) both exhibit a phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-inducible enhancer activity on the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase promoter. Here, we characterized the three previously identified AP-1 binding sites of fragment 5103 by showing the PMA-inducible in vitro binding and in vivo recruitment of c-Fos, JunB and JunD to this fragment located at the end of the pol gene. Functional analyses demonstrated that the intragenic AP-1 binding sites are fully responsible for the PMA-dependent enhancer activity of fragment 5103. Moreover, infection of T-lymphoid Jurkat and promonocytic U937 cells with wild-type and mutant viruses demonstrated that mutations of the intragenic AP-1 sites individually or in combination altered HIV-1 replication. Importantly, mutations of the three intragenic AP-1 sites led to a decreased in vivo recruitment of RNA polymerase II to the viral promoter, strongly supporting that the deleterious effect of these mutations on viral replication occurs, at least partly, at the transcriptional level. Single-round infections of monocyte-derived macrophages confirmed the importance of intragenic AP-1 sites for HIV-1 infectivity.
Control of cryptic transcription in eukaryotes.	Over the last few years, the development of large-scale technologies has radically modified our conception of genome-wide transcriptional control by unveiling an unexpected high complexity of the eukaryotic transcriptome. In organisms ranging from yeast to human, a considerable number of novel small RNA species have been discovered in regions that were previously thought to be incompatible with high levels of transcription. Intriguingly, these transcripts, which are rapidly targeted for degradation by the exosome, appear to be devoid of any coding potential and may be the consequence of unwanted transcription events. However, the notion that an important fraction of these RNAs representby-products of regulatory transcription is progressively emerging. In this chapter, we discuss the recent advances made in our understanding of the shape of the eukaryotic transcriptome. We also focus on the molecular mechanisms that cells exploit to prevent cryptic transcripts from interfering with the expression of protein-coding genes. Finally, we summarize data obtained in different systems suggesting that such RNAs may play a critical role in the regulation of gene expression as well as the evolution of genomes.
Disruption of nuclear organization during the initial phase of African swine fever virus infection.	African swine fever virus (ASFV), the causative agent of one of the most devastating swine diseases, has been considered exclusively cytoplasmic, even though some authors have shown evidence of an early stage of nuclear replication. In the present study, an increment of lamin A/C phosphorylation was observed in ASFV-infected cells as early as 4 h postinfection, followed by the disassembling of the lamina network close to the sites where the viral genome starts its replication. At later time points, this and other nuclear envelope markers were found in the cytoplasm of the infected cells. The effect of the infection on the cell nucleus was much more severe than previously expected, since a redistribution of other nuclear proteins, such as RNA polymerase II, the splicing speckle SC-35 marker, and the B-23 nucleolar marker, was observed from 4 h postinfection. All this evidence, together with the redistribution, dephosphorylation, and subsequent degradation of RNA polymerase II after ASFV infection, suggests the existence of sophisticated mechanisms to regulate the nuclear machinery during viral infection.
Histone occupancy in vivo at the 601 nucleosome binding element is determined by transcriptional history.	We report in vivo analysis of histone and RNA polymerase II (pol II) occupancy at the 601 element, which functions as a strong in vitro nucleosome-positioning element and transcriptional pause site. Surprisingly, nucleosomes were not strongly positioned over the 601 element inserted either within a yeast chromosomal open reading frame (ORF) (GAL1-YLR454W) or in an intergenic region. In fact 601 within GAL1-YLR454W was actually depleted of histones relative to flanking sequences and did not cause pol II pausing. Upstream of an inserted 601 element within GAL1-YLR454W, a positioned nucleosome was formed whose location depended on transcriptional history; it shifted after a round of activation and repression. Transcriptional activation caused histone eviction throughout the GAL1-YLR454W ORF, except at 601, where there was no loss and some net histone deposition. In contrast, a second round of activation after glucose shutoff caused histone eviction both at 601 and elsewhere in the ORF. We conclude that the intrinsic high-affinity histone-DNA interactions at 601 do not necessarily play a dominant role in establishing nucleosomes or pol II pause sites within a coding region in vivo and that transcriptional history can have an important influence on histone occupancy flanking this sequence.
The presence of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine at the gene promoter and not in the gene body negatively regulates gene expression.	5-Hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) was recently described as a stable modification in mammalian DNA. 5hmC is formed by the enzymatic oxidation of 5-methylcytosine (5meC). Overwhelming evidence supports the notion that 5meC has a negative effect on transcription; however, only recently has the effect that 5hmC has on transcription begun to be studied. Using model substrates including the CMV(IE) promoter and a generic gene body we have directly assessed the effect that 5hmC, both at the promoter and in the gene body, has on in vitro gene transcription. We show that the presence of the 5hmC modifications strongly represses transcription. We also demonstrate that the inhibition of transcriptional activity is primarily due to the presence of 5hmC in the promoter and that 5hmC in the gene body has a minimal effect on transcription. Thus, we propose that the presence of 5hmC in promoter prevents the binding of essential transcription factors or recruits factors that repress transcription.
CBP/p300 and SIRT1 are involved in transcriptional regulation of S-phase specific histone genes.	Histones constitute a type of essential nuclear proteins important for chromatin structure and functions. The expression of major histones is strictly confined to the S phase of a cell cycle and tightly coupled to DNA replication.
Nuclear quality control of RNA polymerase II transcripts.	Eukaryotic RNA polymerase II produces an astounding diversity of transcripts. These may need to be 5(') capped, spliced, polyadenylated, and packaged with proteins before their export to the cytoplasm. Unscheduled accumulation of any RNA species can interfere with normal RNA metabolism and poses a serious hazard to cells. Yet, given the amount of primary transcripts and the complexity of the RNA maturation process, production of aberrant RNA species is unavoidable. Cells, therefore, employ nuclear RNA quality control mechanisms to rapidly degrade, actively retain, or transcriptionally silence unwanted RNAs. Pathways that monitor mRNA production are best understood and similar pathways are employed to destroy transcriptional noise. Finally, related mechanisms also contribute to gene regulation during normal growth.
Cotranscriptional RNA checkpoints.	Transcription of protein-coding genes by RNA polymerase II is a repetitive, cyclic process that enables synthesis of multiple RNA molecules from the same template. The transcription cycle consists of three main stages, initiation, elongation and termination. Each of these phases is intimately coupled to a specific step in pre-mRNA processing; 5 capping, splicing and 3-end formation, respectively. In this article, we discuss the recent concept that cotranscriptional checkpoints operate during mRNA biogenesis to ensure that nonfunctional mRNAs with potentially deleterious effects for the cell are not produced or exported to the cytoplasm for translation.
Regulation of mouse Cyp24a1 expression via promoter-proximal and downstream-distal enhancers highlights new concepts of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) action.	CYP24A1 functions in vitamin D target tissues to degrade 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) (1,25(OH)(2)D(3)). Thus, the concentration of this enzyme and the regulation of its expression is a primary determinant of the overall biological activity of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) within cells. The principle regulator of CYP24A1 expression is 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) itself, which functions through the vitamin D receptor to upregulate the transcriptional activity of the Cyp24a1 gene. In this report, we explore the mechanism of this regulation using recently developed ChIP-chip and ChIP-seq techniques that permit an unbiased search for enhancer elements that participate in this transcriptional control. Our studies both confirm a regulatory region defined earlier and located proximal to the transcriptional start site (TSS) of mouse Cyp24a1 (-160 and -265nt) and identify a novel intergenic region located downstream of the transcription unit that contains two enhancers (+35 and +37kb) that facilitate 1,25(OH)(2)D(3)-dependent upregulation of Cyp24a1 expression. Interestingly, while C/EBP also binds under basal conditions to a site located immediately upstream of the Cyp24a1 promoter (-345nt), occupancy by this factor is strikingly increased following 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) treatment. The locations and activities of these regulatory regions that mediate 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) actions were confirmed in mice in vivo. We conclude that the mechanism through which 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) induces the CYP24A1 enzyme, thereby autoregulating its own destruction, involves both promoter-proximal as well as downstream-distal enhancers. These findings highlight new concepts regarding the molecular mechanism of action of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) and other hormonal regulators.
Androgen receptor overexpression alters binding dynamics of the receptor to chromatin and chromatin structure.	Castration-resistant prostate cancers (CRPCs) overexpress often androgen receptor (AR). Here, we investigated the effect of AR overexpression on the dynamics of AR loading and RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) recruitment to chromatin. Acetylation of histone 3 (AcH3) on lysines 9 and 14 (K9 and K14) was also studied.
A subgroup of SGS3-like proteins act redundantly in RNA-directed DNA methylation.	Plant specific SGS3-like proteins are composed of various combinations of an RNA-binding XS domain, a zinc-finger zf-XS domain, a coil-coil domain and a domain of unknown function called XH. In addition to being involved in de novo 2 (IDN2) and SGS3, the Arabidopsis genome encodes 12 uncharacterized SGS3-like proteins. Here, we show that a group of SGS3-like proteins act redundantly in RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM) pathway in Arabidopsis. Transcriptome co-expression analyses reveal significantly correlated expression of two SGS3-like proteins, factor of DNA methylation 1 (FDM1) and FDM2 with known genes required for RdDM. The fdm1 and fdm2 double mutations but not the fdm1 or fdm2 single mutations significantly impair DNA methylation at RdDM loci, release transcriptional gene silencing and dramatically reduce the abundance of siRNAs originated from high copy number repeats or transposons. Like IDN2 and SGS3, FDM1 binds dsRNAs with 5' overhangs. Double mutant analyses also reveal that IDN2 and three uncharacterized SGS3-like proteins FDM3, FDM4 and FDM5 have overlapping function with FDM1 in RdDM. Five FDM proteins and IDN2 define a group of SGS3-like proteins that possess all four-signature motifs in Arabidopsis. Thus, our results demonstrate that this group of SGS3-like proteins is an important component of RdDM. This study further enhances our understanding of the SGS3 gene family and the RdDM pathway.
HSP90 and the R2TP co-chaperone complex: building multi-protein machineries essential for cell growth and gene expression.	HSP90 (Heat Shock Protein 90) is an essential chaperone involved in the last folding steps of client proteins. It has many clients, and these are often recognized through specific adaptors. Recently, the conserved R2TP complex was identified as a key HSP90 co-chaperone. Current evidences indicate that the HSP90/R2TP system assembles multi-molecular protein complexes. Strikingly, these comprise basic machineries of gene expression: (1) nuclear RNA polymerases; (2) the snoRNPs, essential to produce ribosomes; and (3) mTOR Complex 1 and 2, which control translational activity and cell growth. Another important substrate is the telomerase RNP, required for continuous cell proliferation. We discuss here the assembly of RNA polymerases in bacteria and eukaryotes, the role of HSP90/R2TP in this process and in the assembly of snoRNPs and the PIKK family of TORC1 kinase. Finally, we speculate on the roles of R2TP as a master regulator of cell growth under normal or pathological conditions.
Tomato RNA polymerase II interacts with the rod-like conformation of the left terminal domain of the potato spindle tuber viroid positive RNA genome.	Potato spindle tuber viroid (PSTVd) is a small, single-stranded, circular, non-coding RNA pathogen. Host DNA-dependent RNA polymerase II (RNAP II) was proposed to be critical for its replication, but no interaction site for RNAP II on the PSTVd RNA genome was identified. Using a co-immunoprecipitation strategy involving a mAb specific for the conserved heptapeptide (i.e. YSPTSPS) located at the carboxy-terminal domain of the largest subunit of RNAP II, we established the interaction of tomato RNAP II with PSTVd RNA and showed that RNAP II associates with the left terminal domain of PSTVd (+) RNA. RNAP II did not interact with any of several PSTVd (-) RNAs tested. Deletion and site-directed mutagenesis of a shortened model PSTVd (+) RNA fragment were used to identify the role of specific nucleotides and structural motifs in this interaction. Our results provide evidence for the interaction of a RNAP II complex from a natural host with the rod-like conformation of the left terminal domain of PSTVd (+) RNA.
Epigenetic features are significantly associated with alternative splicing.	While alternative splicing (AS) contributes greatly to protein diversities, the relationship between various types of AS and epigenetic factors remains largely unknown.
Chemical reporters for monitoring RNA synthesis and poly(A) tail dynamics.	A versatile "clickable" nucleoside: Metabolic labeling of cells is useful in studying the dynamics of biological molecules. N(6) pA can be utilized by all three mammalian RNA polymerases, as well as poly(A) polymerase. Because of its alkyne modification, RNA labeled with N(6) pA can be visualized and purified by using click chemistry.
KLF15 negatively regulates estrogen-induced epithelial cell proliferation by inhibition of DNA replication licensing.	In the epithelial compartment of the uterus, estradiol-17 (E(2)) induces cell proliferation while progesterone (P(4)) inhibits this response and causes differentiation of the cells. In this study, we identified the mechanism whereby E(2) and P(4) reciprocally regulate the expression of minichromosome maintenance (MCM)-2, a protein that is an essential component of the hexameric MCM-2 to 7 complex required for DNA synthesis initiation. We show in the uterine epithelium that Kruppel-like transcription (KLF) factors, KLF 4 and 15, are inversely expressed; most importantly, they bind to the Mcm2 promoter under the regulation of E(2) and P(4)E(2), respectively. After P(4)E(2) exposure and in contrast to E(2) treated mice, the Mcm2 promoter displays increased histone 3 (H3) methylation and the recruitment of histone deacetylase 1 and 3 with the concomitant deacetylation of H3. This increased methylation and decreased acetylation is associated with an inhibition of RNA polymerase II binding, indicating an inactive Mcm2 promoter following P(4)E(2) treatment. Using transient transfection assays in the Ishikawa endometrial cell line, we demonstrate that Mcm2 promoter activity is hormonally stimulated by E(2) and that KLF15 inhibits this E(2) enhanced transcription. KLF15 expression also blocks Ishikawa cell proliferation through inhibition of MCM2 protein level. Importantly, in vivo expression of KLF15 in an estrogenized uterus mimics P(4)'s action by inhibiting E(2)-induced uterine epithelial MCM-2 expression and DNA synthesis. KLF15 is therefore a downstream physiological mediator of progesterone's cell cycle inhibitory action in the uterine epithelium.
Chromatin signatures of active enhancers.	Gene-distal cis-regulatory sequences, such as enhancers, are key contributors of tissue-specific gene expression. In particular, enhancers can be located up to hundreds of kilobases from the promoters that they control, making their identification challenging. Thanks to the recent technological advances to map histone modifications and chromatin-associated factors genome-wide, several studies have begun to characterize chromatin signatures of active enhancers. Here, we discuss some of these results and how they provide new insights into the tissue-specific organization of enhancer repertoires.
Transcription: another mark in the tail.	The C-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) subunit undergoes dynamic phosphorylation to support transcription-associated events and drive the transcription cycle. In mammalian cells, it comprises 52 repeats of the heptapeptide sequence Tyr(1)Ser(2)Pro(3)Thr(4)Ser(5)Pro(6)Ser(7). While important functions for Ser(2)-, Ser(5)-, and Ser(7)-phosphorylation have previously been described, a new report in The EMBO Journal now suggests an unexpectedly crucial role for Thr(4) phosphorylation as well.
Cdc28 kinase activity regulates the basal transcription machinery at a subset of genes.	The cyclin-dependent kinase Cdc28 is the master regulator of the cell cycle in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Cdc28 initiates the cell cycle by activating cell-cycle-specific transcription factors that switch on a transcriptional program during late G1 phase. Cdc28 also has a cell-cycle-independent, direct function in regulating basal transcription, which does not require its catalytic activity. However, the exact role of Cdc28 in basal transcription remains poorly understood, and a function for its kinase activity has not been fully explored. Here we show that the catalytic activity of Cdc28 is important for basal transcription. Using a chemical-genetic screen for mutants that specifically require the kinase activity of Cdc28 for viability, we identified a plethora of basal transcription factors. In particular, CDC28 interacts genetically with genes encoding kinases that phosphorylate the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II, such as KIN28. ChIP followed by high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq) revealed that Cdc28 localizes to at least 200 genes, primarily with functions in cellular homeostasis, such as the plasma membrane proton pump PMA1. Transcription of PMA1 peaks early in the cell cycle, even though the promoter sequences of PMA1 (as well as the other Cdc28-enriched ORFs) lack cell-cycle elements, and PMA1 does not recruit Swi4/6-dependent cell-cycle box-binding factor/MluI cell-cycle box binding factor complexes. Finally, we found that recruitment of Cdc28 and Kin28 to PMA1 is mutually dependent and that the activity of both kinases is required for full phosphorylation of C-terminal domain-Ser5, for efficient transcription, and for mRNA capping. Our results reveal a mechanism of cell-cycle-dependent regulation of basal transcription.
RNA polymerase II pausing downstream of core histone genes is different from genes producing polyadenylated transcripts.	Recent genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled high throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq) analyses performed in various eukaryotic organisms, analysed RNA Polymerase II (Pol II) pausing around the transcription start sites of genes. In this study we have further investigated genome-wide binding of Pol II downstream of the 3' end of the annotated genes (EAGs) by ChIP-seq in human cells. At almost all expressed genes we observed Pol II occupancy downstream of the EAGs suggesting that Pol II pausing 3' from the transcription units is a rather common phenomenon. Downstream of EAGs Pol II transcripts can also be detected by global run-on and sequencing, suggesting the presence of functionally active Pol II. Based on Pol II occupancy downstream of EAGs we could distinguish distinct clusters of Pol II pause patterns. On core histone genes, coding for non-polyadenylated transcripts, Pol II occupancy is quickly dropping after the EAG. In contrast, on genes, whose transcripts undergo polyA tail addition [poly(A)(+)], Pol II occupancy downstream of the EAGs can be detected up to 4-6 kb. Inhibition of polyadenylation significantly increased Pol II occupancy downstream of EAGs at poly(A)(+) genes, but not at the EAGs of core histone genes. The differential genome-wide Pol II occupancy profiles 3' of the EAGs have also been confirmed in mouse embryonic stem (mES) cells, indicating that Pol II pauses genome-wide downstream of the EAGs in mammalian cells. Moreover, in mES cells the sharp drop of Pol II signal at the EAG of core histone genes seems to be independent of the phosphorylation status of the C-terminal domain of the large subunit of Pol II. Thus, our study uncovers a potential link between different mRNA 3' end processing mechanisms and consequent Pol II transcription termination processes.
The histone H3 Lys 27 demethylase JMJD3 regulates gene expression by impacting transcriptional elongation.	The histone H3 Lys 27 (H3K27) demethylase JMJD3 has been shown to play important roles in transcriptional regulation and cell differentiation. However, the mechanism underlying JMJD3-mediated transcriptional regulation remains incompletely understood. Here we show that JMJD3 is associated with KIAA1718, whose substrates include dimethylated H3K27 (H3K27me2), and proteins involved in transcriptional elongation. JMJD3 and KIAA1718 directly bind to and regulate the expression of a plethora of common target genes in both a demethylase activity-dependent and -independent manner in the human promyelocytic leukemia cell line HL-60. We found that JMJD3 and KIAA1718 collaborate to demethylate trimethylated H3K27 (H3K27me3) on a subset of their target genes, some of which are bivalently marked by H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 and associated with promoter-proximal, paused RNA polymerase II (Pol II) before activation. Reduction of either JMJD3 or KIAA1718 diminishes Pol II traveling along the gene bodies of the affected genes while having no effect on the promoter-proximal Pol II. Furthermore, JMJD3 and KIAA1718 also play a role in localizing elongation factors SPT6 and SPT16 to the target genes. Our results support the model whereby JMJD3 activates bivalent gene transcription by demethylating H3K27me3 and promoting transcriptional elongation. Taken together, these findings provide new insight into the mechanisms by which JMJD3 regulates gene expression.
An artificial miRNA against HPSE suppresses melanoma invasion properties, correlating with a down-regulation of chemokines and MAPK phosphorylation.	Ribonucleic acid interference (RNAi) based on microRNA (miRNA) context may provide an efficient and safe therapeutic knockdown effect and can be driven by ribonucleic acid polymerase II (RNAP II). In this study, we designed and synthesized miR155-based artificial miRNAs against heparanase (HPSE) constructed with BLOCK-iT Pol II miR RNAi Expression Vector Kit. The expression levels of HPSE declined significantly in both the mRNA and protein levels in HPSE-miRNA transfected melanoma cells that exhibited reduction of adhesion, migration, and invasion ability in vitro and in vivo. We also observed that HPSE miRNA could inhibit the expressions of chemokines of interleukin-8 (IL8) and chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1 (CXCL1), at both the transcriptional and translational levels. Further study on its probable mechanism declared that down-regulation of IL8 and CXCL1 by HPSE-miRNA may be correlated with reduced growth-factor simulated mitogen-activated kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation including p38 MAPK, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1 and 2, which could be rescued by miRNA incompatible mutated HPSE cDNA. In conclusion, we demonstrated that artificial miRNAs against HPSE might serve as an alterative mean of therapy to low HPSE expression and to block the adhesion, invasion, and metastasis of melanoma cells. Furthermore, miRNA-based RNAi was also a powerful tool for gene function study.
Genome organization is a major component of gene expression control in response to stress and during the cell division cycle in trypanosomes.	The trypanosome genome is characterized by RNA polymerase II-driven polycistronic transcription of protein-coding genes. Ten to hundreds of genes are co-transcribed from a single promoter; thus, selective regulation of individual genes via initiation is impossible. However, selective responses to external stimuli occur and post-transcriptional mechanisms are thought to account for all temporal gene expression patterns. We show that genes encoding mRNAs that are differentially regulated during the heat-shock response are selectively positioned in polycistronic transcription units; downregulated genes are close to transcription initiation sites and upregulated genes are distant. We demonstrate that the position of a reporter gene within a transcription unit is sufficient to reproduce this effect. Analysis of gene ontology annotations reveals that positional bias is not restricted to stress-response genes and that there is a genome-wide organization based on proximity to transcription initiation sites. Furthermore, we show that the relative abundance of mRNAs at different time points in the cell division cycle is dependent on the location of the corresponding genes to transcription initiation sites. This work provides evidence that the genome in trypanosomes is organized to facilitate co-coordinated temporal control of gene expression in the absence of selective promoters.
Rethinking the role of TFIIF in transcript initiation by RNA polymerase II.	TFIIF is considered to be a general transcription factor, based on the fact that it is essential for assembly of RNA polymerase II preinitiation complexes on fully double-stranded templates in vitro. Existing models assign various tasks to TFIIF during preinitiation complex formation and transcript initiation. Recent results do not support all aspects of those models but they do emphasize the significance of the interaction of TFIIF and TFIIB. Other recent findings raise the possibility that a fraction of RNA polymerase II transcription complex assembly proceeds through a pathway that is independent of TFIIF.
Gdown1: making a link between mediator and RNA polymerase II elongation control.	Gdown1 is a substoichiometric RNA polymerase II subunit that modulates effects of both Mediator and elongation factors in vitro and is broadly distributed across the human genome. Here we assemble the existing information on Gdown1, provide additional bioinformatics analyses, and propose a working model for Gdown1 function.
The GENCODE pseudogene resource.	Pseudogenes have long been considered as nonfunctional genomic sequences. However, recent evidence suggests that many of them might have some form of biological activity, and the possibility of functionality has increased interest in their accurate annotation and integration with functional genomics data.
G-CSF-activated STAT3 enhances production of the chemokine MIP-2 in bone marrow neutrophils.	Neutrophil mobilization from the bone marrow is a critical aspect of the innate immune response, enabling a rapid deployment of phagocytes to infected or inflamed tissue. The cytokine G-CSF, which is induced rapidly during infection, elicits a swift and potent mobilizing response, yet its mechanisms of action remain poorly understood. Here, we studied the role of G-CSF and its principal signal transducer STAT3 in regulating expression of the neutrophil chemoattractant MIP-2. Our studies revealed Gr-1(hi) mature neutrophils as major sources of Cxcl2 (MIP-2) mRNA in bone marrow and G-CSF-responsive MIP-2 protein production. Induction of Cxcl2 was regulated directly by G-CSF-activated STAT3 via interaction at a STAT consensus element in the Cxcl2 promoter. G-CSF coordinately stimulated the association of STAT3, induction of the transcriptionally active H3K4me3 modification, and recruitment of RNA Pol II at the Cxcl2 proximal promoter, as well as the promoter region of Il8rb, encoding the MIP-2 receptor. These results suggest that the G-CSF-STAT3 pathway directly regulates transcriptional events that induce neutrophil mobilization.
Large-scale functional organization of long-range chromatin interaction networks.	Chromatin interactions play important roles in transcription regulation. To better understand the underlying evolutionary and functional constraints of these interactions, we implemented a systems approach to examine RNA polymerase-II-associated chromatin interactions in human cells. We found that 40% of the total genomic elements involved in chromatin interactions converged to a giant, scale-free-like, hierarchical network organized into chromatin communities. The communities were enriched in specific functions and were syntenic through evolution. Disease-associated SNPs from genome-wide association studies were enriched among the nodes with fewer interactions, implying their selection against deleterious interactions by limiting the total number of interactions, a model that we further reconciled using somatic and germline cancer mutation data. The hubs lacked disease-associated SNPs, constituted a nonrandomly interconnected core of key cellular functions, and exhibited lethality in mouse mutants, supporting an evolutionary selection that favored the nonrandom spatial clustering of the least-evolving key genomic domains against random genetic or transcriptional errors in the genome. Altogether, our analyses reveal a systems-level evolutionary framework that shapes functionally compartmentalized and error-tolerant transcriptional regulation of human genome in three dimensions.
Cdk11-cyclinL controls the assembly of the RNA polymerase II mediator complex.	The large Mediator (L-Mediator) is a general coactivator of RNA polymerase II transcription and is formed by the reversible association of the small Mediator (S-Mediator) and the kinase-module-harboring Cdk8. It is not known how the kinase module association/dissociation is regulated. We describe the fission yeast Cdk11-L-type cyclin pombe (Lcp1) complex and show that its inactivation alters the global expression profile in a manner very similar to that of mutations of the kinase module. Cdk11 is broadly distributed onto chromatin and phosphorylates the Med27 and Med4 Mediator subunits on conserved residues. The association of the kinase module and the S-Mediator is strongly decreased by the inactivation of either Cdk11 or the mutation of its target residues on the Mediator. These results show that Cdk11-Lcp1 regulates the association of the kinase module and the S-Mediator to form the L-Mediator complex.
Transcriptional elongation factor elongin A regulates retinoic acid-induced gene expression during neuronal differentiation.	Elongin A increases the rate of RNA polymerase II (pol II) transcript elongation by suppressing transient pausing by the enzyme. Elongin A also acts as a component of a cullin-RING ligase that can target stalled pol II for ubiquitylation and proteasome-dependent degradation. It is not known whether these activities of Elongin A are functionally interdependent in vivo. Here, we demonstrate that Elongin A-deficient (Elongin A(-/-)) embryos exhibit abnormalities in the formation of both cranial and spinal nerves and that Elongin A(-/-) embryonic stem cells (ESCs) show a markedly decreased capacity to differentiate into neurons. Moreover, we identify Elongin A mutations that selectively inactivate one or the other of the aforementioned activities and show that mutants that retain the elongation stimulatory, but not pol II ubiquitylation, activity of Elongin A rescue neuronal differentiation and support retinoic acid-induced upregulation of a subset of neurogenesis-related genes in Elongin A(-/-) ESCs.
Long distance relationships: enhancer-promoter communication and dynamic gene transcription.	The three-dimensional regulation of gene transcription involves loop formation between enhancer and promoter elements, controlling spatiotemporal gene expression in multicellular organisms. Enhancers are usually located in non-coding DNA and can activate gene transcription by recruiting transcription factors, chromatin remodeling factors and RNA Polymerase II. Research over the last few years has revealed that enhancers have tell-tale characteristics that facilitate their detection by several approaches, although the hallmarks of enhancers are not always uniform. Enhancers likely play an important role in the activation of genes by functioning as a primary point of contact for transcriptional activators, and by making physical contact with gene promoters often by means of a chromatin loop. Although numerous transcriptional regulators participate in the formation of chromatin loops that bring enhancers into proximity with promoters, the mechanism(s) of enhancer-promoter connectivity remain enigmatic. Here we discuss enhancer function, review some of the many proteins shown to be involved in establishing enhancer-promoter loops, and describe the dynamics of enhancer-promoter contacts during development, differentiation and in specific cell types.
Omeprazole blocks STAT6 binding to the eotaxin-3 promoter in eosinophilic esophagitis cells.	Patients who have esophageal eosinophilia without gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) nevertheless can respond to proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), which can have anti-inflammatory actions independent of effects on gastric acid secretion. In esophageal cell cultures, omeprazole has been reported to inhibit Th2 cytokine-stimulated expression of eotaxin-3, an eosinophil chemoattractant contributing to esophageal eosinophilia in eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE). The objective of this study was to elucidate molecular mechanisms underlying PPI inhibition of IL-4-stimulated eotaxin-3 production by esophageal cells.
The landscape of RNA polymerase II transcription initiation in C. elegans reveals promoter and enhancer architectures.	RNA polymerase transcription initiation sites are largely unknown in Caenorhabditis elegans. The initial 5' end of most protein-coding transcripts is removed by trans-splicing, and noncoding initiation sites have not been investigated. We characterized the landscape of RNA Pol II transcription initiation, identifying 73,500 distinct clusters of initiation. Bidirectional transcription is frequent, with a peak of transcriptional pairing at 120 bp. We assign transcription initiation sites to 7691 protein-coding genes and find that they display features typical of eukaryotic promoters. Strikingly, the majority of initiation events occur in regions with enhancer-like chromatin signatures. Based on the overlap of transcription initiation clusters with mapped transcription factor binding sites, we define 2361 transcribed intergenic enhancers. Remarkably, productive transcription elongation across these enhancers is predominantly in the same orientation as that of the nearest downstream gene. Directed elongation from an upstream enhancer toward a downstream gene could potentially deliver RNA polymerase II to a proximal promoter, or alternatively might function directly as a distal promoter. Our results provide a new resource to investigate transcription regulation in metazoans. 
p300, but not PCAF, collaborates with IRF-1 in stimulating TRIM22 expression independently of its histone acetyltransferase activity.	Tripartite motif (TRIM) 22 plays an important role in IFN-mediated antiviral activity. We previously demonstrated that IFN regulatory factor-1 (IRF-1) was crucial for constitutive and IFN-induced TRIM22 expression via binding to a special cis-element named 5' extended IFN-stimulating response element. Here, we further investigate the molecular mechanisms of TRIM22 with a focus on the co-activators of IRF-1. Using an in vitro DNA affinity binding assay and an in vivo chromatin immunoprecipitation assay, we found that IFN- stimulation significantly enhanced the binding of p300 and p300/CBP-associated factor, but not other co-activators such as general control nondepressible 5, steroid receptor co-activator-1, and activator of thyroid and retinoic, to the 5' extended IFN-stimulating response element containing TRIM22 promoter region together with IRF-1. Overexpression and knockdown analysis demonstrated that it was p300, but not p300/CBP-associated factor, that functioned as a transcriptional co-activator of IRF-1 in IFN- induction of TRIM22. We further show that p300 contributed to both IFN-- and IRF-1-mediated TRIM22 transcription independent of its histone acetyltransferase activity, however, it was required for the recruitment of RNA polymerase II to TRIM22 promoter region. These data indicate that p300 plays a critical role in IFN--induced TRIM22 expression via recruiting RNA polymerase II to the TRIM22 promoter, and might serve as a bridge between IRF-1 and the basal transcriptional apparatus in TRIM22 induction. 
Splicing-coupled 3' end formation requires a terminal splice acceptor site, but not intron excision.	Splicing of human pre-mRNA is reciprocally coupled to 3' end formation by terminal exon definition, which occurs co-transcriptionally. It is required for the final maturation of most human pre-mRNAs and is therefore important to understand. We have used several strategies to block splicing at specific stages in vivo and studied their effect on 3' end formation. We demonstrate that a terminal splice acceptor site is essential to establish coupling with the poly(A) signal in a chromosomally integrated -globin gene. This is in part to alleviate the suppression of 3' end formation by U1 small nuclear RNA, which is known to bind pre-mRNA at the earliest stage of spliceosome assembly. Interestingly, blocks to splicing that are subsequent to terminal splice acceptor site function, but before catalysis, have little observable effect on 3' end formation. These data suggest that early stages of spliceosome assembly are sufficient to functionally couple splicing and 3' end formation, but that on-going intron removal is less critical. 
Nuclear import of RNA polymerase II is coupled with nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of the RNA polymerase II-associated protein 2.	The RNA polymerase II (RNAP II)-associated protein (RPAP) 2 has been discovered through its association with various subunits of RNAP II in affinity purification coupled with mass spectrometry experiments. Here, we show that RPAP2 is a mainly cytoplasmic protein that shuttles between the cytoplasm and the nucleus. RPAP2 shuttling is tightly coupled with nuclear import of RNAP II, as RPAP2 silencing provokes abnormal accumulation of RNAP II in the cytoplasmic space. Most notably, RPAP4/GPN1 silencing provokes the retention of RPAP2 in the nucleus. Our results support a model in which RPAP2 enters the nucleus in association with RNAP II and returns to the cytoplasm in association with the GTPase GPN1/RPAP4. Although binding of RNAP II to RPAP2 is mediated by an N-terminal domain (amino acids 1-170) that contains a nuclear retention domain, and binding of RPAP4/GPN1 to RPAP2 occurs through a C-terminal domain (amino acids 156-612) that has a dominant cytoplasmic localization domain. In conjunction with previously published data, our results have important implications, as they indicate that RPAP2 controls gene expression by two distinct mechanisms, one that targets RNAP II activity during transcription and the other that controls availability of RNAP II in the nucleus. 
H19 inhibits RNA polymerase II-mediated transcription by disrupting the hnRNP U-actin complex.	H19 was one of the earliest identified, and is the most studied, long noncoding RNAs. It is presumed that H19 is essential for regulating development and disease conditions, and it is associated with carcinogenesis for many types. However the biological function and regulatory mechanism of this conserved RNA, particularly with respect to its effect on transcription, remain largely unknown.
Real-time dynamics of RNA polymerase II clustering in live human cells.	Transcription is reported to be spatially compartmentalized in nuclear transcription factories with clusters of RNA polymerase II (Pol II). However, little is known about when these foci assemble or their relative stability. We developed a quantitative single-cell approach to characterize protein spatiotemporal organization, with single-molecule sensitivity in live eukaryotic cells. We observed that Pol II clusters form transiently, with an average lifetime of 5.1 ( 0.4) seconds, which refutes the notion that they are statically assembled substructures. Stimuli affecting transcription yielded orders-of-magnitude changes in the dynamics of Pol II clusters, which implies that clustering is regulated and plays a role in the cell's ability to effect rapid response to external signals. Our results suggest that transient crowding of enzymes may aid in rate-limiting steps of gene regulation. 
Silencing MED1 sensitizes breast cancer cells to pure anti-estrogen fulvestrant in vitro and in vivo.	Pure anti-estrogen fulvestrant has been shown to be a promising ER antagonist for locally advanced and metastatic breast cancer. Unfortunately, a significant proportion of patients developed resistance to this type of endocrine therapy but the molecular mechanisms governing cellular responsiveness to this agent remain poorly understood. Here, we've reported that knockdown of estrogen receptor coactivator MED1 sensitized fulvestrant resistance breast cancer cells to fulvestrant treatment. We found that MED1 knockdown further promoted cell cycle arrest induced by fulvestrant. Using an orthotopic xenograft mouse model, we found that knockdown of MED1 significantly reduced tumor growth in mice. Importantly, knockdown of MED1 further potentiated tumor growth inhibition by fulvestrant. Mechanistic studies indicated that combination of fulvestrant treatment and MED1 knockdown is able to cooperatively inhibit the expression of ER target genes. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments further supported a role for MED1 in regulating the recruitment of RNA polymerase II and transcriptional corepressor HDAC1 on endogenous ER target gene promoter in the presence of fulvestrant. These results demonstrate a role for MED1 in mediating resistance to the pure anti-estrogen fulvestrant both in vitro and in vivo. 
O-GlcNAcylation at promoters, nutrient sensors, and transcriptional regulation.	Post-translational modifications play important roles in transcriptional regulation. Among the less understood PTMs is O-GlcNAcylation. Nevertheless, O-GlcNAcylation in the nucleus is found on hundreds of transcription factors and coactivators and is often found in a mutually exclusive ying-yang relationship with phosphorylation. O-GlcNAcylation also links cellular metabolism directly to the proteome, serving as a conduit of metabolic information to the nucleus. This review serves as a brief introduction to O-GlcNAcylation, emphasizing its important thematic roles in transcriptional regulation, and highlights several recent and important additions to the literature that illustrate the connections between O-GlcNAc and transcription. 
External conditions inversely change the RNA polymerase II elongation rate and density in yeast.	Elongation speed is a key parameter in RNA polymerase II (RNA pol II) activity. It affects the transcription rate, while it is conditioned by the physicochemical environment it works in at the same time. For instance, it is well-known that temperature affects the biochemical reactions rates. Therefore in free-living organisms that are able to grow at various environmental temperatures, such as the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, evolution should have not only shaped the structural and functional properties of this key enzyme, but should have also provided mechanisms and pathways to adapt its activity to the optimal performance required. We studied the changes in RNA pol II elongation speed caused by alternations in growth temperature in yeast to find that they strictly follow the Arrhenius equation, and that they also provoke an almost inverse proportional change in RNA pol II density within the optimal growth temperature range (26-37 C). Moreover, we discovered that yeast cells control the transcription initiation rate by changing the total amount of available RNA pol II.
ELL, a novel TFIIH partner, is involved in transcription restart after DNA repair.	DNA lesions that block transcription may cause cell death even when repaired, if transcription does not restart to reestablish cellular metabolism. However, transcription resumption after individual DNA-lesion repair remains poorly described in mechanistic terms and its players are largely unknown. The general transcription factor II H (TFIIH) is a major actor of both nucleotide excision repair subpathways of which transcription-coupled repair highlights the interplay between DNA repair and transcription. Using an unbiased proteomic approach, we have identified the protein eleven-nineteen lysine-rich leukemia (ELL) as a TFIIH partner. Here we show that ELL is recruited to UV-damaged chromatin in a Cdk7- dependent manner (a component of the cyclin-dependent activating kinase subcomplex of TFIIH). We demonstrate that depletion of ELL strongly hinders RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) transcription resumption after lesion removal and DNA gap filling. Lack of ELL was also observed to increase RNA Pol II retention to the chromatin during this process. Identifying ELL as an essential player for RNA Pol II restart during cellular DNA damage response opens the way to obtaining a mechanistic description of transcription resumption after DNA repair. 
Isolation of novel human retrovirus-related sequences by hybridization to synthetic oligonucleotides complementary to the tRNA(Pro) primer-binding site.	Synthetic oligonucleotides complementary to putative retroviral primer-binding sites were used as hybridization probes to detect novel retroviruslike sequences. An 8.1-kilobase element with structural features of a retroviral provirus was isolated from a human genomic library by this approach. Nucleotide sequence analysis of its 600-base-pair long terminal repeats revealed characteristic motifs known as regulatory signals for RNA polymerase II transcription: CCAAT, TATA, and ATTAAA. In addition, a putative pol gene displays apparent homologies to conserved regions of retroviral reverse transcriptase. The 5' long terminal repeat is flanked at its 3' end by a putative primer-binding site for reverse transcription with homology to tRNA(Pro). This element is therefore termed HuRRS-P (human retrovirus-related sequence-proline). There are 20 to 40 copies of HuRRS-P homologous sequences in DNAs of human and simian origin.
Ioxynil and tetrabromobisphenol A suppress thyroid-hormone-induced activation of transcriptional elongation mediated by histone modifications and RNA polymerase II phosphorylation.	To elucidate molecular mechanisms by which the phenolic herbicide ioxynil (IOX) and the brominated flame retardant tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) exert thyroid hormone (TH) disrupting activity, we investigated the effects of the chemicals on the histone and RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) modifications in Xenopus laevis XL58-TRE-Luc cells in direct TH-response genes encoding TH receptor  (Thrb) and TH-induced basic leucine zipper protein (Thibz) using chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. For both the thrb and thibz genes, 3,3',5-triiodothyronine (T3) enhanced the amounts of gene transcripts and increased the amounts of acetylated histone H4 (H4Ac), trimethylated histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4me3) and phosphorylated RNAPII serine 5 (RNAPIIS5P), epigenetic markers of gene activation at 5' regulatory regions, and the amounts of trimethylated histone H3 lysine 36 (H3K36me3) and phosphorylated RNAPII serine 2 (RNAPIIS2P), epigenetic markers of activation of transcriptional elongation at protein coding regions. Treatment with IOX and TBBPA reduced the amounts of the thrb transcript and suppressed the T3-induced modifications of H3K4me3, RNAPIIS5P, H3K36me3, and RNAPIIS2P. In the thibz gene, IOX and TBBPA did not suppress the T3-induced histone and RNAPII modifications except for H3K36me3 in the TBBPA treatment, despite both chemicals decreasing the T3-induced transcription. Our results demonstrate that IOX and TBBPA affect TH-induced histone and RNAPII modifications, which are involved in early and progressive stages of RNAPII transcriptional elongation, in direct TH-response genes, in somewhat target gene-dependent and chemical-specific manners. Both IOX and TBBPA are likely to influence epigenetically a cascade of TH receptor-mediated gene regulation. 
Changes in heat shock protein synthesis and hsp70 gene transcription during erythropoiesis of Xenopus laevis.	As erythroid cells of Xenopus laevis differentiate, their capacity for transcription and protein synthesis becomes progressively restricted. Mature erythrocytes are thought to be transcriptionally inert and have very low levels of protein synthesis (Maclean et al., 1973, Cell Differ. 2, 261-269). We have examined actual and potential synthetic activity during erythropoiesis by comparing the patterns of protein synthesis and measuring the transcriptional activity of selected genes under ambient and heat shock conditions. As erythropoiesis proceeds, there is a progressive decrease in the number of heat shock proteins (hsps) whose synthesis is induced at elevated temperatures. Despite this repression, mature erythrocytes are able to respond to heat shock with the induction of synthesis of one protein, hsp70. In addition, an hsp70-like protein is synthesized constitutively in orthochromatic erythroblasts, the final erythroid cell stage before maturation into erythrocytes. An in vitro nuclear run-off transcription assay was used to study transcription of the hsp70, beta-globin, and ribosomal genes during erythropoiesis. beta-Globin and ribosomal gene transcription were detected at all stages of erythropoiesis, including the erythrocyte stage. However, transcription of the beta-globin gene relative to ribosomal gene transcription declines substantially in erythrocytes as compared to earlier stages. Hsp70 gene transcription shows both stage-specific and heat shock-dependent transcription. Orthochromatic erythroblasts and erythrocytes have heat shock-dependent hsp70 gene transcription, whereas the gene is transcribed at the earlier erythroblast stages at ambient temperature as well as during heat shock. The constitutive hsp70 transcripts made during these earlier stages may be stored for utilization in constitutive synthesis of the hsp70-like protein in orthochromatic erythroblasts. These data indicate that although erythrocytes become synthetically repressed during differentiation, they are less inert than previously thought. The data also reveal that the synthesis of hsps and related proteins is subject to both transcriptional and post-transcriptional control during erythropoiesis.
Elongation by Drosophila RNA polymerase II. Transcription of 3'-extended DNA templates.	RNA polymerase II will efficiently initiate transcription on linear duplex DNA which has been extended at its 3' ends by the addition of short stretches of polydeoxycytidine (Kadesch, T. R., and Chamberlin, M. J. (1982) J. Biol. Chem. 257, 5286-5295). We have used such dC-tailed templates to identify factors affecting elongation by Drosophila RNA polymerase II (Price, D. H., Sluder, A. E., and Greenleaf, A. L. (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 3244-3255). While studying these factors we have observed two unexpected characteristics of transcription of the tailed templates. First, we found that RNA polymerase II encountered a strong pause site after the incorporation of 14 nucleotides. This pausing was observed on all templates examined and with RNA polymerase II from a variety of sources. In addition, we found that ammonium ions markedly stimulated the polymerase, increasing both the efficiency with which the enzyme left the 14 base pause site and the subsequent rate of elongation. A factor previously shown to affect transcription of dC-tailed templates (factor 4, Price, D. H., Sluder, A. E., and Greenleaf, A. L. (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 3244-3255) was found to cause transcript displacement and to stimulate the elongation rate approximately 2-fold. This factor copurified with an RNase H activity, and a model is presented for the mechanism of transcript displacement by RNase H. The observations presented here form a basis for further analysis of RNA polymerase II elongation and its modulation by transcription factors. They should also aid in the interpretation of other experiments in which dC-tailed templates are used.
RNA-DNA differences are generated in human cells within seconds after RNA exits polymerase II.	RNA sequences are expected to be identical to their corresponding DNA sequences. Here, we found all 12 types of RNA-DNA sequence differences (RDDs) in nascent RNA. Our results show that RDDs begin to occur in RNA chains ~55 nt from the RNA polymerase II (Pol II) active site. These RDDs occur so soon after transcription that they are incompatible with known deaminase-mediated RNA-editing mechanisms. Moreover, the 55 nt delay in appearance indicates that they do not arise during RNA synthesis by Pol II or as a direct consequence of modified base incorporation. Preliminary data suggest that RDD and R-loop formations may be coupled. These findings identify sequence substitution as an early step in cotranscriptional RNA processing.
Effects of RNAi-mediated knockdown of histone methyltransferases on the sex-specific mRNA expression of Imp in the silkworm Bombyx mori.	Sexual differentiation in Bombyx mori is controlled by sex-specific splicing of Bmdsx, which results in the omission of exons 3 and 4 in a male-specific manner. In B. mori, insulin-like growth factor II mRNA-binding protein (Imp) is a male-specific factor involved in male-specific splicing of Bmdsx. Male-specific Imp mRNA results from the male-specific inclusion of exon 8. To verify the link between histone methylation and alternative RNA processing in Imp, we examined the effects of RNAi-mediated knockdown of several histone methyltransferases on the sex-specific mRNA expression of Imp. As a result, male-specific expression of Imp mRNA was completely abolished when expression of the H3K79 methyltransferase DOT1L was repressed to <10% of that in control males. Chromatin immunoprecipitation-quantitative PCR analysis revealed a higher distribution of H3K79me2 in normal males than in normal females across Imp. RNA polymerase II (RNAP II) processivity assays indicated that RNAi knockdown of DOT1L in males caused a twofold decrease in RNAP II processivity compared to that in control males, with almost equivalent levels to those observed in normal females. Inhibition of RNAP II-mediated elongation in male cells repressed the male-specific splicing of Imp. Our data suggest the possibility that H3K79me2 accumulation along Imp is associated with the male-specific alternative processing of Imp mRNA that results from increased RNAP II processivity. 
Transcription of methylated viral DNA by eukaryotic RNA polymerase II.	The genome of the large icosahedral DNA virus, frog virus 3 (FV3), is heavily methylated at the cytosine residues of dCdG dinucleotide pairs, with more than 22% of the total cytosine residues in the form of 5-methylcytosine (5mC). This methylation is carried out postreplicatively in the cytoplasm of infected cells by a virus-encoded DNA methyltransferase. DNA methyltransferase activity was shown to copurify with a 26 kD virus-induced, DNA-binding protein that had an altered mobility in extracts from cells infected with a DNA-methyl-transferase deficient mutant of FV3. Immediately after infection, the highly methylated parental DNA is transcribed in the nucleus by the host cell RNA polymerase II. As FV3 induces the synthesis of a protein that can override the inhibitory effect of methylation on the transcription of exogenous promoters methylation in vitro, we suggest that this protein is a factor evolved by this virus to allow transcription from methylated promoters by eukaryotic RNA polymerase II.
A cis-acting sequence within the rat ribosomal DNA enhancer region can modulate RNA polymerase II-directed transcription of the metallothionein I gene in vitro.	Plasmids were constructed by inserting a 557-bp or 174-bp spacer fragment of rat ribosomal (r)DNA containing an enhancer element(s) at -148 bp upstream from a cloned mouse metallothionein gene (pMT-I). Transcription of these plasmids in a fractionated nuclear extract from a rat hepatoma resulted in 5 to 20-fold stimulation of MT-I gene transcription. This enhancement occurred independent of orientation of the enhancer or its distance from the metallothionein gene promoter or in the presence of the MT-I gene enhancer, and was sensitive to low levels of alpha-amanitin. Stimulation of MT-I gene transcription under the direction of the rDNA spacer element also occurred in HeLa nuclear extract, albeit to a smaller extent. Prior incubation of the nuclear extract with the 557-bp or 174-bp fragment resulted in as much as 5- to 10-fold stimulation of MT-I gene transcription. No significant effect on MT-I gene transcription was observed following preincubation with other DNAs. Preincubation of the extract with three subfragments of the 174-bp spacer inhibited MT-I gene transcription, which suggests that the majority of the 174-bp domain is required for binding to the negative regulatory factor(s) for MT-I gene transcription and that the subfragments can only interact with the positive core promoter-binding factor. The 37-bp subfragment, which has been shown to interact with a positive rDNA trans-acting factor, could also interact with a positive polymerase II (pol II) trans-acting factor. These studies have demonstrated that the 174-bp rat rDNA spacer element containing the pol I enhancer can also modulate pol II-directed transcription.
Protein-DNA cross-linking reveals dramatic variation in RNA polymerase II density on different histone repeats of Drosophila melanogaster.	In Drosophila melanogaster the five histone genes are within a 5-kilobase region which is repeated 100 times at a single chromosomal site. These 5-kilobase repeats are of two distinct classes, short and long, that differ by approximately 200 base pairs of DNA in the spacer region between the H1 and H3 genes. Since the mRNA-homologous regions of the repeats are highly conserved, one cannot examine differential expression of the repeats by classical hybridization methods. In this study, we assessed their transcriptional activity by measuring in vivo the relative amounts of RNA polymerase II that were cross-linked by UV irradiation to the two different histone repeats. The RNA polymerase II density on the long repeat in Schneider line 2 cells was strikingly lower (10-fold) than the density on the short repeat. The magnitude of this difference cannot be accounted for by reduced transcription of only one or two genes of the repeat. The density of topoisomerase I, an indicator of transcriptional activity, was also much higher on the short repeat than on the long repeat of line 2 cells. In contrast, the RNA polymerase II density was slightly higher on the long repeat than on the short repeat in a second cell line, KcH. The major difference between active (KcH) and inactive (S2) long repeats resides in the H1-H3 nontranscribed spacer. This portion of the spacer may contain a component necessary for expression that can act over a moderate distance and affect multiple genes of the repeat.
Renaturase and ribonuclease H: a novel mechanism that influences transcript displacement by RNA polymerase II in vitro.	I have previously reported an activity in HeLa cells which facilitates transcript displacement by purified mammalian RNA polymerase II in vitro. I have shown that this activity copurifies with one of two separable ribonuclease (RNase) H activities in HeLa cells. The RNase H activity in question has characteristics similar to those reported for RNase H2b from calf thymus. RNase H proteins purified from several other sources including Escherichia coli also show renaturase activity. When the renaturase/RNase H protein is present during transcription by purified RNA polymerase II, transcripts are truncated close to the 5' end, and the remainder of the transcript is displaced normally from its template by the polymerase. Since RNA polymerase II dependent transcripts in vivo normally require the presence of the 5'-triphosphate terminus for capping, the in vivo significance of RNase H as a renaturase factor is presently not understood. However, the in vitro action of renaturase/RNase H suggests that the mechanism of this reaction may involve R-loop displacement after formation of a short single-stranded region of DNA on the template strand following hydrolysis of a hybrid transcript oligonucleotide by RNase H.
Adenovirus E1a ras cooperation activity is separate from its positive and negative transcription regulatory functions.	The E1a gene of adenovirus encodes two proteins, 289 and 243 amino acids long, which have positive (transactivator) and negative (enhancer repressor) RNA polymerase II transcriptional regulatory properties and cell transformation activities including cooperation with an activated ras gene. The E1a transforming functions more closely correlate with the repressor property than with transactivation in that both E1a proteins express the repressor and transformation functions while only the 289-amino-acid protein is an efficient transactivator. To understand whether the transcriptional regulatory activities of E1a are related to its ras cooperation activity, we generated a series of mutant E1a expression vectors by linker insertion mutagenesis of the 289-amino-acid protein. Here we describe a new class of mutants which although defective for enhancer repression still can cooperate with the ras oncogene in cell transformation. The mutants are also defective in transcription transactivation. Our data suggest that enhancer repression and transformation via ras cooperation are separate E1a functions and that cooperation with ras does not rely on either of the RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory functions of E1a. We also show that mutations which inactivate enhancer repression are not confirmed to a single critical domain necessary for repression. We therefore propose that the integrity of the overall configuration of the E1a proteins is important for the repression activity.
Purified Saccharomyces cerevisiae RNA polymerase II interacts homologously with two different promoters as revealed by P1 endonuclease analysis.	The intergenic region of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae GAL1-GAL10 divergent promoters has been circularized in vitro in different topological states. In defined conditions, purified homologous RNA polymerase II forms two stable complexes (half-life approximately equal to 5 h) with this DNA in the presence of the four ribonucleotides, as determined by measurement (Gamper and Hearst 1983) of the amount and stability of the resulting unwinding. Each stable complex induces in the closed DNA domain a region of hypersensitivity to P1 endonuclease. The two induced hypersensitive regions are very similar: each maps on one promoter, spans over the 100 bp DNA sequence that encompasses the RNA Initiation Sites (RIS) and the TATA box, is composed by three subregions (one on the RIS, one proximal or overlapping the TATA sequence, one intermediate). We show that this promoter-localized interaction is supercoil-dependent.
RNA polymerase II terminates transcription in vitro in the SV40 origin region.	To begin to study signals on DNA that can cause mammalian RNA polymerase II to terminate transcription, we examined the RNA transcripts produced from a number of different DNA templates in a HeLa whole-cell extract. When transcripts initiating from the strong adenovirus late promoter and extending through the SV40 promoter-replication origin region were analyzed, it was observed that a significant fraction (approximately 75%) were terminated within these SV40 sequences. These transcripts, the 3' ends of which were mapped to several sites within an approximately 200 base pair region, appeared to result from transcription termination, as judged by kinetic and pulse-chase experiments. The possible significance of these findings with respect to SV40 gene expression in particular and transcription termination in general are discussed.
Inhibition of the phosphorylation of non-histone chromosomal proteins of rat liver by cordycepin and cordycepin triphosphate.	The effects of cordycepin (3'-deoxyadenosine) and cordycepin triphosphate on phosphorylation of non-histone chromosomal proteins were assessed in isolated hepatic nuclei in vitro. Cordycepin and cordycepin triphosphate competitively inhibited phosphorylation of urea-soluble nuclear proteins with a Ki of 1.2 X 10(-3) and 8 X 10(-5) M, respectively. Isoelectric focusing of urea-soluble proteins indicated that inhibition occurred predominantly in nuclear proteins with isoelectric points of pH 4 to 7. Quaternary aminoethyl-Sephadex chromatography of extracts of nuclei incubated with cordycepin and cordycepin triphosphate also showed inhibition of phosphorylation of non-histone chromosomal proteins with similar isoelectric points, although greater resolution of proteins with isoelectric points of pH 6 to 7 was achieved. RNA polymerase I and II were not affected by cordycepin and cordycepin triphosphate after quaternary aminoethyl-Sephadex chromatography of nuclear extracts incubated with either agent. However, RNA polymerase I and II in isolated nuclei were competitively inhibited by cordycepin triphosphate but not by cordycepin. These results suggest that cordycepin triphosphate, and perhaps cordycepin too, may affect transcription via interference with the phosphorylation of non-histone chromosomal proteins.
Bacterial lipopolysaccharide induction of a mouse spleen factor stimulating ribonucleic acid polymerase II.	When bacterial lipopolysaccharide, a B-cell mitogen, was injected intraperitoneally into mice, the rate of deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis and the number of antibody-secreting cells in the spleen increased simultaneously, reaching a maximum in 3 days. The rate of ribonucleic acid synthesis also increased during this period, and this was found to be due to activation of alpha-amanitin-sensitive transcription in lymphoid cells of the spleen. The factors stimulating ribonucleic acid polymerase II in the spleens of normal mice and those treated with lipopolysaccharide were compared, and an additional factor besides that present in normal spleens was found in the spleen of lipopolysaccharide-treated mice.
Immunoprecipitation of the simian virus 40 late transcription complex with antibody against T-antigen.	Tumor antigen (T-antigen) of simian virus 40 (SV40) has been shown to have a number of regulatory roles in both viral replication and early viral transcription. However, the nature of its role on late viral transcription remains unclear. We have analyzed for the presence of T-antigen on SV40 late viral transcription complexes which exhibit RNA polymerase II extension activity in vitro. Nuclear extract or glycerol gradient-isolated transcription complexes were treated with either polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies, and the amount of extension activity that could be immunoprecipitated was determined. Anti-T antibody derived from hamster ascites as well as the anti-T monoclonal antibodies PAb 102, 109, 416, and 419 all precipitated 12-29% of viral transcription complex activity. Immunoprecipitation resulted in significant enrichment of transcription complex activity relative to bulk minichromosomes, indicating a preferential association of T-antigen with the late viral transcription complex. This is the first direct demonstration of the presence of T-antigen on the SV40 late transcription complex. Furthermore, the immunoprecipitated transcription complexes exhibited a salt dependence of their in vitro extension activity which was distinct from that of the total complex population, indicating that T-antigen is present on a specific subclass of transcription complexes.
mRNA synthesis rates in vivo for androgen-inducible sequences in mouse kidney.	A method was developed for measuring in vivo rates of mRNA synthesis in mice by pulse-labeling with the RNA precursor [3H]orotate and then using hybridization to recover specific mRNAs. The efficiency of recovery is determined with synthetic RNAs as internal hybridization standards. The method is particularly applicable to the kidney since this organ shows a strong preferential uptake of the label. Rates of synthesis, expressed as a fraction of total RNA synthesis, were measured for the androgen-inducible mRNAs coding for beta-glucuronidase (GUS), ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), the protein coded by the RP-2 gene, and the so-called kidney androgen-regulated protein (KAP). Control mRNAs coded for beta-actin, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, and major urinary protein. Testosterone markedly increased the synthesis of the androgen-inducible mRNAs, but not the control mRNAs. Induction was not seen in mutant mice lacking functional androgen receptor protein. For GUS, ODC, and RP-2 mRNAs, the fold induction of synthesis was less than the fold induction of concentration, suggesting that mRNA stabilization also plays a part in the response to androgen. For GUS, ODC, and RP-2 mRNAs, but not KAP mRNA, induction of synthesis was rapidly reversed after testosterone removal. KAP mRNA was also exceptional in that its concentration was disproportionately high compared with its rate of synthesis, implying that it is a particularly stable mRNA.
Factors involved in specific transcription by mammalian RNA polymerase II. RNA polymerase II-associating protein 30 is an essential component of transcription factor IIF.	Transcription from class II promoters requires five general factors, IIA, IIB, IID, IIE, and IIF, in addition to RNA polymerase II for basal levels of transcription (Reinberg, D., Flores, O., and Buckbinder, L. (1987) in Molecular Biology of RNA: New Perspectives (Inouye, M., and Dudock, B., eds) pp. 423-439, Academic Press, Orlando, FL). A protein fraction containing transcription factors (TF) IIE and IIF was able to reconstitute transcription from the adenovirus major late promoter when added to extracts depleted of the RNA polymerase II-associating proteins RAP 30 and RAP 74 (Sopta, M., Carthew, R.W., and Greenblatt, J. (1985) J. Biol. Chem. 260, 10353-10360). Studies with monoaffinity-purified antibodies directed against RAP 30 demonstrated, by Western blot analysis, that RAP 30 copurifies on five columns with transcription factor IIF. That RAP 30 is a functional component of TFIIF was also demonstrated; preincubation of anti-RAP 30 antibodies with purified TFIIF inhibited transcription. Inhibition of transcription was overcome by the addition of purified TFIIF. RAP 30 is an integral part of a preinitiation complex; the incubation of all the general transcription factors with a promoter-containing DNA, prior to the addition of the anti-RAP 30 antibodies, resulted in the formation of a DNA-protein complex that was not inhibited by the antibodies. Incubation of the transcription factors in the absence of a promoter-containing DNA resulted in a complex that was partially resistant to the antibodies.
Effect of low nucleotide concentrations on abortive elongation catalysed by wheat-germ RNA polymerase II.	A kinetic study of the effect of elongating nucleotide concentration on the reactions of abortive elongation catalysed by wheat-germ RNA polymerase II on a poly[d(A-T)] template suggests that the shift from abortive to productive elongation may involve the participation of at least two nucleotides, according to a mechanism very similar to that reported for Escherichia coli RNA polymerase. Experiments performed with non-complementary nucleotides with respect to the DNA template, and with substrate derivatives, allow an analysis of the substrate specificity during these reactions. Similar experiments performed with poly[d(A-A-T)].poly[d(T-T-A)] as template provide a starting point for a better understanding of the effect of DNA sequence on the rates of abortive and productive elongation catalysed by the plant enzyme.
Abortive initiation by RNA polymerase II in vitro at the adenovirus 2 major late promoter.	We have investigated the formation of the first phosphodiester bond by RNA polymerase II in vitro. The template was a cloned DNA bearing the adenovirus 2 major late promoter; transcription factors and RNA polymerase II were provided by a HeLa cell nuclear extract. Dinucleotide primers and single nucleoside triphosphates were used as substrates. We found that accurate initiation does occur when only one phosphodiester bond can be formed; however, all of the resulting dinucleotide-primed trimers are abortively initiated. Synthesis of the trimers by RNA polymerase II requires ATP or dATP and is sensitive to low concentrations of alpha-amanitin. Treatments which abolish the ability of the preinitiation complex to synthesize long RNAs also eliminate the ability to abortively initiate. Abortive initiation proceeds for at least one-half h at 25 degrees C, at which point up to 4 mol of transcript/mol of template have been synthesized. The level of abortive initiation (per template molecule) is not significantly reduced by 0.025% Sarkosyl or by 10-fold dilution of the reaction, consistent with the initiation complex remaining intact during abortive initiation.
The adenovirus major late transcription factor activates the rat gamma-fibrinogen promoter.	The major late transcription factor (MLTF) is a 46-kilodalton polypeptide that specifically binds to and activates transcription from the major late promoter of adenovirus. The presence of this promoter-specific transcription factor in uninfected HeLa cell extracts suggests that MLTF is also involved in the transcription of cellular genes. This report demonstrates that MLTF specifically stimulates transcription of the rat gamma-fibrinogen gene through a high-affinity binding site. Stimulation of transcription by MLTF was not dependent on the exact position of the MLTF binding site with respect either to the transcription initiation site or to adjacent promoter elements. These results suggest that one of the cellular functions of MLTF is to control gamma-fibrinogen gene expression.
Binding of transcription factor TFIID to the major late promoter during in vitro nucleosome assembly potentiates subsequent initiation by RNA polymerase II.	A plasmid containing the major late promoter was assembled into nucleosomes in a Xenopus oocyte extract, isolated by gel filtration, and found to be refractory to transcription initiation in vitro. However, exposure of the promoter to HeLa nuclear extract or to a mixture of isolated transcription factors prior to nucleosome assembly prevented nucleosome-mediated repression of the promoter. Inactivation or elimination of the TATA box-binding factor (TFIID) abolished the ability of these treatments to preserve promoter function. Preincubation with TFIID alone prevented repression and resulted in TFIID being sequestered into the nucleosome-assembled templates. Preincubation with all the transcription factors resulted in the assembly of nucleosome templates containing a near complete preinitiation complex, which required only the addition of TFIIE for transcription initiation.
Variations in template protection by the RNA polymerase II transcription complex during the initiation process.	Preinitiation complexes (complex 0) or complexes which either made 2 or an average of 10 phosphodiester bonds (complexes 2 and 10, respectively) were assembled in vitro on the adenovirus 2 major late promoter. Each of the complexes was digested extensively with DNase I; the protected DNAs were purified and hybridized in a series of end-labeled oligonucleotides homologous to sequences on the coding or noncoding strands near the initiation site. The hybrids were then extended with reverse transcriptase to map the extent of template protection conferred by proteins in the complex. The downstream protection edge revealed by this approach was approximately +30, +25, and +35 for complexes 0, 2, and 10, respectively. We subsequently found that the apparent inward movement of the downstream protection boundary on initiation could be produced by satisfying the energy requirement for transcription initiation (i.e., by treating with ATP or dATP). The downstream boundary change occurred as rapidly as we could perform the test (less than 60 s) and was not blocked by alpha-amanitin. DNAs from trimmed complexes 0, 2, or 10 all supported extension to a single upstream edge at about position -42. Upstream protection was stable in the preinitiation complex, but when postinitiation complexes were incubated for extended periods, protection of the entire upstream region was lost. This decay of upstream protection, like the movement of the downstream boundary, was found to result from exposure to ATP or dATP. Unlike the downstream boundary movement, however, the upstream change was relatively slow; about 15 min was required to lose one-half of the protection.
Specificity of RNA maturation pathways: RNAs transcribed by RNA polymerase III are not substrates for splicing or polyadenylation.	To analyze the specificity of RNA processing reactions, we constructed hybrid genes containing RNA polymerase III promoters fused to sequences that are normally transcribed by polymerase II and assessed their transcripts following transfection into human 293 cells. Transcripts derived from these chimeric constructs were analyzed by using a combined RNase H and S1 nuclease assay to test whether RNAs containing consensus 5' and 3' splicing signals could be efficiently spliced in intact cells, even though they were transcribed by RNA polymerase III. We found that polymerase III-derived RNAs are not substrates for splicing. Similarly, we were not able to detect poly(A)+ RNAs derived from genes that contained a polymerase III promoter linked to sequences that were necessary and sufficient to direct 3'-end cleavage and polyadenylation when transcribed by RNA polymerase II. Our findings are consistent with the view that in vivo splicing and polyadenylation pathways are obligatorily coupled to transcription by RNA polymerase II.
RNA primers and the role of host nuclear RNA polymerase II in influenza viral RNA transcription.	Influenza viral RNA transcription in the infected cell is inhibited by alpha-amanitin, a specific inhibitor of the host nuclear RNA polymerase II. Because viral RNA transcription in vitro catalysed by the virion-associated transcriptase is greatly enhanced by the addition of a primer dinucleotide, ApG or GpG, we have proposed that viral RNA transcription in vivo requires initiation by primer RNAs synthesized by RNA polymerase II. In addition, because we did not detect any capping and methylating enzymes in virions, we have proposed that the 5' terminal methylated cap found on in-vivo viral messenger RNA (mRNA) is derived from the putative primer RNAs. Our recent experiments have proved these two hypotheses. Purified globin mRNAs were shown to stimulate viral RNA transcription in vitro very effectively. The resulting transcripts directed the synthesis of all the non-glycosylated virus-specific proteins in cell-free systems. Other eukaryotic mRNAs were also active as primers. The presence of a 5' terminal methylated cap structure in the priming mRNA was required for its priming activity. Thus, with globin mRNA, removal of the cap eliminated essentially all of its priming activity, and much of this activity could be restored by enzymically recapping the globin mRNA. Using globin mRNA containing 32P only in its cap, we demonstrated that the 5' cap of the globin mRNA primer was physically transferred to the viral RNA transcripts during transcription. Gel electrophoretic analysis suggested that, in addition to the cap, about 10-15 other nucleotides were also transferred from the globin mRNA to the viral RNA transcripts. A mechanism for the priming of influenza viral RNA transcription by globin mRNA is proposed. Initial experiments strongly suggest that priming by capped host mRNAs also occurs during the synthesis of viral mRNA in vivo.
Specific small nuclear RNAs from SV40-transformed cells stimulate transcription initiation in nontransformed isolated nuclei.	Previous studies in our laboratory have implicated small nuclear RNAs (SnRNA) in the regulation of transcription in isolated mammalian cell nuclei. The present investigation was designed to develop a transcription assay system using isolated intact nuclei with optimized RNA polymerase II activity which would be capable of reinitiation in vitro to study the mode of action of the "active" RNA. We used nuclei isolated from either human W138 or Balb 3T3 mouse cells to test the activity of SnRNA purified from SV40-transformed W138 or 3T3 cell lines. These systems were found to support transcription up to 60 min, 40--60% of which was polymerase II dependent. In vitro initiations were detected by [gamma-32p]ATP incorporation as well as by Hg-Sepharose chromatography using (gamma-S)ATP as substrate. Results supported the following conclusions: (a) SnRNA from transformed cells stimulates the transcriptional activity of nontransformed nuclei while homologous SnRNA has little or no activity; (b) the stimulation is NaOH-sensitive and is dependent on RNA polymerase II since it is eliminated by 1 microgram/ml alpha-amanitin; (c) the active subfraction of SnRNA from mouse cells was found to be of identical size (320--350 nucleotides) to that previously identified in human and monkey cells; and (d) analysis of the transcripts obtained from control and stimulated cell nuclei revealed that SnRNA activity is due primarily to an increase in the number of initiated chains.
Non-random effect on RNA synthesis in liver chromatin by administration of dimethylnitrosamine to mice.	The effect of dimethylnitrosamine on functional activities of liver chromatin was studied in mice. After a single dose of dimethylnitrosamine injected i.v. (25 mg/kg body wt, 45 min before sacrifice) liver nuclei were isolated and incubated with micrococcal nuclease (EC 3.1.4.7) to an acid-solubility of 2.5% of total DNA. Chromatin was fractionated into a 1,200 g pellet P1, 102,000 g pellet P2 and supernatant fraction S2. Chromatin-bound RNA polymerase I plus III activity decreased 15% in the P1 and 25% in the P2 fraction. No changes in activity were observed in the S2 fraction. Chromatin-bound RNA polymerase II activity decreased 19% in the P1, 49% in the P2 and 32% in the S2 fraction. Heparin stimulated RNA polymerase II activity decreased 10% in the P1 and 44% in the P2 fraction. Formation of initiation in nuclear lysates with RNA polymerase from Escherichia coli increased after administration of dimethylnitrosamine suggesting an increase in the number of sites available for the start of new RNA chains. The results show that limited digestion of nuclei with endonuclease cleaves chromatin regions which are more affected by dimethylnitrosamine than the total chromatin suggesting a non-random effect of the hepatotoxin on chromatin. Modifications of the DNA template by dimethylnitrosamine is indicated by the change in number of initiation complexes.
Participation of cytoplasmic factors in the rate of transcription in compensatory hyperfunction of the heart]	Effect of cytoplasmic fraction S-100 from normal heart and liver tissue as well as from the tissues at the period of compensatory growth, caused by hyperfunction, on the rate of transcription in isolated nuclei was studied. In normal state heart and liver cytoplasm contained factors, accelerating RNA synthesis in nuclei, while activity of RNA-polymerase I was increased most significantly in presence of these factors as compared with RNA-polymerase II. Activity of these cytoplasmic factors, accelerating transcription, was distinctly increased in heart hyperfunction and in the liver tissue remaining after partial hepatectomy. The heart and liver cytoplasmic factors proved to be of protein nature, they did not exhibit any tissue specificity and their activity correlated with the rate of cellular RNA synthesis. Activation of cytoplasmic protein factors, accelerating transcription, appears to be an important mechanism, initiating the RNA synthesis increase in response to elevation of a tissue physiological functions.
Transcription of simian virus 40 DNA by wheat germ RNA polymerase II. Priming of RNA synthesis by the 3'-hydroxyl of DNA at single strand nicks.	Linear simian virus 40 DNA has been transcribed in vitro with wheat germ RNA polymerase II. Transcription products have been fractionated on polyacrylamide gels and several discrete sized RNA bands are seen. The RNA band pattern is affected dramatically by deoxyribonuclease treatment during RNA isolation. This is because most of the RNA synthesized is covalently linked to DNA. This linkage has been demonstrated by density analysis in formaldehyde-CsCl gradients and by incorporation of alkali-stable ribonucleotides into DNA. The linear DNA templates transcribed were generated by treatment of circular DNA with restriction enzymes which, in addition to cutting once at a single primary site, were found also to produce single strand nicks at specific secondary sites. The discrete sized RNA bands observed result from initiation at these nicks and terminated at DNA ends. There are two modes of nick-dependent initiation. In one mode the 3'-hydroxyl terminus of the DNA at a single strand nick serves as a primer for the extension of an RNA chain. In a second mode de novo initiation of an RNA chain is promoted at the nick. RNAs which are not primed initiate predominantly with GTP. The catalytic action of wheat germ RNA polymerase II is similar to that of Escherichia coli core RNA polymerase which has also been shown to synthesize primarily RNA which is covalently linked to DNA.
Transcription of Simian virus 40 DNA in a HeLa whole cell extract.	Extracts of HeLa cells containing RNA polymerase II and other factors recognize specific sites on linear simian virus 40 (SV40) DNA for initiation of transcription. The most prominent RNA products transcribed from the early region of SV40 and th E strand are initiated at sites 0.67 and 0.655 on the SV40 map. These two RNAs are synthesized by polymerase II. Their 5' termini were positioned by sizing transcripts that extend from the initiation site to the end of the template restriction endonuclease fragment, and by S1-nuclease mapping of unlabeled RNA using DNA probes labeled at their 5' termini. The limit of resolution of mapping of 5' termini is approximately 25 nucleotides. RNAs with 5' termini at similar positions have been found during characterization of mRNAs produced in infected cells. Thus, the whole cell extract is probably initiating transcription on linear SV40 DNA in vitro at the same sites as RNAs synthesized in vivo. Two other processes frequently involved in mammalian cell mRNA biosynthesis, creation of specific 3'-terminal polyadenine tracts and RNA splicing, were not detected during the course of these studies.
Studies on the mechanism of glucocorticoid hormone induced alterations in rat thymic transcription--I. Evidence from reconstituted cross-over transcription assays that sequential increases and decreases in transcription are due to changes in the activity of RNA polymerase II rather than in the activity of chromatin template.	In experiments to determine the mechanism of glucocorticoid induced decreases in thymic transcription, adrenalectomized rats were injected with hydrocortisone (50 mg/kg) or vehicle. Thymic nuclei were used to prepare chromatins and soluble nuclear extracts containing RNA polymerase II for cross-over experiments. With calf thymus DNA or rat thymic chromatins as templates limiting RNA polymerase II from rats treated with hydrocortisone 3 h previously had 130% of the [3H]UMP incorporating activity of RNA polymerase II from control vehicle treated rats. In contrast, limiting RNA polymerase II from rats treated with hydrocortisone 12 h previously had 40-50% of the [3H]UMP incorporating activity of RNA polymerase II from controls. When limiting calf thymus DNA or rat thymic chromatins were used in 12 h cross-over experiments. Individual RNA polymerases II produced equal [3H]UMP incorporations, but RNA polymerase II activity from hydrocortisone treated rats was again only 50% of control values. Thus with template saturation, RNA polymerase II from hydrocortisone treated rats could not transcribe rat thymic chromatin templates to the level achieved by RNA polymerase II from control rats. This suggests that the activity, rather than the amount, of RNA polymerase II from hydrocortisone treated rats is reduced. Double reciprocal plots of [3H]UMP incorporation on rat chromatins with increasing concentrations of RNA polymerases II were made at 12 h. The apparent Km for RNA polymerase II from animals treated with hydrocortisone was identical to that of RNA polymerase II from controls, but the Vmax of RNA polymerase II from hydrocortisone treated animals was reduced. These data suggest the presence of an inhibitor of transcription or an RNA polymerase II defective in its capacity to initiate and/or elongate RNA transcripts. Further experiments demonstrated that these effects were not due to steroid induced changes in ribonuclease or protease activities.
Isolation and characterisation of a transcribing polynucleosomal chromatin fraction.	A method is described for preparation of a fraction of chromatin enriched in transcribing regions from nuclei of mouse GR cells. This fraction, released by mild staphylococcal nuclease digestion of isolated nuclei, contains 2 to 10% of the DNA as polynucleosomal chromatin together with 50-70% of pulse-labelled RNA and about 90% of all template-engaged RNA polymerase B molecules, titrated with (3H)-alpha-amanitin. Hybridisation of DNA from this chromatin fraction to total nuclear RNA in excess shows that it is enriched in frequently-transcribed DNA sequences. A modification of the Miller technique, allowing the spreading of the active chromatin fraction for electron microscopy, has been developed. Examination of the spreads reveals that this chromatin fraction contains 20-100 nucleosome-long polynucleosomal chains bearing lateral RNP fibrils interpreted as nascent transcripts. The average length of the DNA fragments in the fraction is greater than that of average transcribed regions, suggesting that the transcribed regions are linked to flanking segments whose chromatin conformation probably contributes to the selective release of transcribing chromatin.
Identification of the DNA binding subunit of RNA polymerase II from Ehrlich ascites tumor cells.	The DNA binding subunits of RNA polymerase II from Ehrlich ascites tumor cells were investigated in the following three ways. (1) RNA polymerase II was dissociated in urea and the binding of the dissociated subunits to DNA was investigated. (2) The RNA polymerase II: DNA complex was dissociated progressively with various concentrations of urea, and the subunits firmly attached to DNA were investigated. (3) RNA polymerase II was dissociated into subunits in a SDS-polyacrylamide gel containing urea and blotted onto a nitrocellulose filter. The filter was then incubated with 32P-nick-translated DNA to identify the DNA binding subunits. These procedures all showed that the largest subunit a of RNA polymerase II had strong affinity to DNA. It was found that a portion of subunits b and c could be recovered in DNA fraction when analyzed by procedures (1) and (2), but no significant DNA binding activity was detected when analyzed by procedure (3), suggesting that these subunits have either a much weaker affinity toward DNA compared to a or have affinity to a itself.
RNA polymerase II transcribes all of the heat shock induced genes of Drosophila melanogaster.	Heat shock of Drosophila melanogaster induces the transcription of a small number of RNAs. Some of these encode protein products, but not all. We have investigated whether the several induced RNAs are transcribed by RNA polymerase II or by some other RNA polymerase. Immunochemical staining of polytene chromosomes indicates that, on heat shock, RNA polymerase II is relocalized; it "migrates" from previously-active transcription sites to the heat shock induced loci. All heat shock induced puffs show immunochemical staining. Such staining correlates with RNA polymerase II activity as judged by the sensitivity of RNA synthesis at these sites to low concentrations of alpha-amanitin. Thus the protein-coding and non-protein-coding heat shock-induced RNAs are transcribed by this polymerase specifically. We have also identified several non-puffed chromosomal sites at which RNA synthesis is induced by heat shock.
Characterization of a non-histone chromosomal protein which stimulates RNA polymerase II.	A non-histone chromosomal protein was extracted and purified 177-fold from rat liver nuclei which stimulated RNA synthesis in vitro catalyzed by wheat germ RNA polymerase II with either liver chromatin, or native or denaturated calf thymus DNA as template. The stimulatory non-histone chromosomal protein fraction was characterized as having a molecular weight of 66 000 and a pI = 8.2--9.0. No activity was found with Escherichia coli RNA polymerase and liver chromatin. The binding of the stimulatory non-histone chromosomal protein occurred exclusively with the chromatin template and not with RNA polymerase II as assessed by its interference with actinomycin D but not with alpha-amanitin, respectively.
Functional redundancy of promoter elements ensures efficient transcription of the human 7SK gene in vivo.	Deletion and mutation studies of the human 7SK gene transfected into HeLa cells have identified three functional regions of the promoter corresponding to the TATA box at -25, the proximal sequence element (PSE) between -49 and -65 and the distal sequence element (DSE) between -243 and -210. These elements show sequence homology to equivalent regions in other snRNA genes and are functionally analogous. Unlike the DSEs of many snRNA genes however, the 7SK DSE does not contain a consensus binding site for the transcription factor Oct-1 but rather, contains two non-consensus Oct-1 binding sites that can function independently of one another to enhance transcription. Unusually, the 7SK PSE can retain function even after extensive mutation and removal of the conserved TGACC of the PSE has little effect in the context of the whole promoter. However, the same mutation abolishes transcription in the absence of the DSE suggesting that protein/protein interactions between DSE and PSE binding factors can compensate for a mutant PSE. Mutation of the 7SK TATA box allows snRNA type transcription by RNA polymerase II to occur and this is enhanced by the DSE, indicating that both the DSE and the PSE can also function with pol II. In addition, mutation of the TATA box does not abolish pol III dependent transcription, suggesting that other sequence elements may also play a role in the determination of polymerase specificity. Although the human 7SK gene is transcribed efficiently in Xenopus oocytes, analysis of the 7SK wild-type gene and mutants in Xenopus oocytes gives significantly different results from the analysis in HeLa cells indicating that the recognition of functional elements is not the same in the two systems.
Loss of transcriptional attenuation in N-myc is associated with progression towards a more malignant phenotype.	The modulation of RNA polymerase II processivity through the untranslated N-myc first exon represents an important mechanism governing N-myc mRNA levels during normal development. In this study, we employed the rat embryo fibroblast (REF) cooperation assay as a functional means to (i) map N-myc first exon sequences involved in the regulation of N-myc gene expression and specifically their contribution to controlling a block to transcriptional elongation and (ii) determine whether this transcriptional control mechanism plays a role in governing the oncogenic activity of N-myc. Transfection of N-myc expression constructs harboring various deletions within the untranslated first exon revealed that a region encoding a potential stem-loop structure followed by a thymine stretch (stem-loop/T region) was required for efficient transcriptional attenuation. The increase in transcriptional read-through associated with all deletions involving the stem-loop/T region also resulted in a more aggressive malignant phenotype as evidenced by a significant enhancement in the subcloning efficiency of N-myc/ras transformed foci. Most significantly, when cell lines generated from overexpression of the intact N-myc expression construct were selected for anchorage-independent growth, a strong block to transcriptional elongation was completely eliminated in all cases examined. Since the subcloning efficiency of transformed foci and the capacity of permanently established cell lines for anchorage-independent growth are direct correlates of more advanced stages of malignant transformation, our findings suggest that loss of transcriptional attenuation represents an important genetic event in the progression of N-myc-induced cellular transformation.
Cell cycle-dependent regulation of RNA polymerase II basal transcription activity.	Regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II (pol II) in eukaryotic cells requires both basal and regulatory transcription factors. In this report we have investigated in vitro pol II basal transcription activity during the cell cycle by using nuclear extracts from synchronized HeLa cells. It is shown that pol II basal transcription activity is low in the S and G2 phases and high in early G1 phase and TFIID is the rate limiting component of pol II basal transcription activity during the cell cycle. Further analyses reveal that TFIID exists as a less active form in the S and G2 phases and nuclear extracts from S and G2 phase cells contain a heat-sensitive repressor(s) of TATA box binding protein (TBP). These results suggest that pol II basal transcription activity is regulated by a qualitative change in the TFIID complex, which could involve repression of TBP, during the cell cycle.
Complexes of yeast RNA polymerase II and RNA are substrates for TFIIS-induced RNA cleavage.	In the absence of DNA, purified yeast RNA polymerase II can bind RNA to form a binary complex. RNA in such RNA-RNA polymerase complexes undergoes reactions previously thought to be unique to nascent RNA in ternary complexes with DNA, including TFIIS-dependent cleavage and elongation by 3'-terminal addition of NMP from NTP. Both of these reactions are inhibited by alpha-amanitin. Hence, by several criteria the RNA in binary complexes is bound to the polymerase in a manner quite similar to that in ternary complexes in which the catalytic site for nucleotide addition is positioned at or near the 3'-OH terminus of the RNA. These findings are consistent with a model for the RNA polymerase ternary complex in which the RNA is bound at the 3' terminus through two protein-binding sites located up to 10 nt apart.
Changes in cellular concentration of DNA-dependent RNA polymerases A and B during regeneration of rat liver.	1. DNA-dependent RNA polymerases A and B were solubilized from rat liver nuclei at different intervals after partial hepatectomy, and chromatographed on DEAE-Sephadex A-25. Activity of the solubilized RNA polymerases remained unchanged till 6 h after hepatectomy, then started to increase reaching a maximum (350% and 150% of control for the A and B enzyme, respectively) at the 18th hour of regeneration, and was still high at the 36th hour of regeneration. 2. RNA polymerases A and B were extracted and extensively purified from the nuclei of normal and regenerating rat liver. No marked differences in the specific activities between the analogous purified enzymes from normal and regenerating liver were observed, thus the increase in RNA polymerase activities (especially marked in the case of enzyme A) observed after partial hepatectomy is probably due to a real increase in the quantities of enzymes. 3. Concentration of RNA polymerase A in hepatocyte increases from 1.3 x 10(4) (normal liver) to 7.5 x 10(4) (18 h after hepatectomy) molecules per haploid genome. The concentration of polymerase B increases from 3.4 x 10(4) to 5.5 x 10(4) molecules per haploid genome, respectively.
Alanine-scanning mutagenesis of human transcript elongation factor TFIIS.	TFIIS is a transcription elongation factor that binds to RNA polymerase II and allows it to transcribe through a variety of transcriptional blockages by inducing cleavage near the 3' end of the nascent transcript. Although this cleavage reaction plays a key role in the process of reactivation of transcription by TFIIS, the exact mechanism by which TFIIS promotes readthrough by RNA polymerase II is not completely understood. We therefore undertook a systematic mutagenesis of the C-terminal half of TFIIS (delta TFIIS) to evaluate the contribution of charged residues in this region to induce transcript cleavage and promote readthrough in vitro. Twenty-two delta TFIIS alanine-scanning mutants were constructed by substitution of alanine for each amino acid in clusters of charged residues in the C-terminal half of HeLa TFIIS. The ability to induce transcript cleavage and readthrough of these mutants was tested in vitro using RNA polymerase II ternary elongation complexes arrested at a block to elongation. This alanine-scanning mutagenesis analysis allowed the identification of regions or residues important for the activity of TFIIS. Many of the mutants were reduced alike in both cleavage and readthrough activities. However, in several cases there was no simple correlation between these activity reductions.
Programming of a repressed but committed chromatin structure during early development.	The determination of chromatin for transcription during early development as well as the requirement for trans-acting factors during this period has been analysed in Xenopus. Basal transcription is repressed both during oogenesis and after the mid-blastula transition (MBT), and transactivators are required to relieve this repression. In contrast, transactivators cannot overcome the generalized transcriptional repression which occurs in embryos before MBT. However, they do bind to promoters leading to a repressed but preset chromatin structure. Experiments involving the pre-binding of TATA binding protein (TBP) or of the strong transactivator GAL4-VP16 further show that there is no limiting factor before the MBT, and that it is the recruitment and stabilization of the basal transcription machinery and not of transactivators which is repressed during early development. This multi-step process in gene activation, with activation of promoters temporally uncoupled from their commitment, may be of importance in the regulation of early embryonic events by providing molecular signposts for future determinations.
HSF access to heat shock elements in vivo depends critically on promoter architecture defined by GAGA factor, TFIID, and RNA polymerase II binding sites.	Chromatin structure can modulate gene expression by limiting transcription factor access to gene promoters. We examined sequence elements of the Drosophila hsp70 promoter for their ability to facilitate the binding of the transcription factor, heat shock factor (HSF), to chromatin. We assayed HSF binding to various transgenic heat shock promoters in situ by measuring amounts of fluorescence at transgenic loci of polytene chromosomes that were stained with an HSF antibody. We found three promoter sequences that influence the access of HSF to its binding sites: the GAGA element, sequences surrounding the transcription start site, and a region in the leader of hsp70 where RNA polymerase II arrests during early elongation. The GAGA element has been shown previously to disrupt nucleosome structure. Because the two other critical regions include sequences that are required for stable binding of TFIID in vitro, we examined the in vivo occupancy of the TATA elements in the transgenic promoters. We found that TATA occupancy correlated with HSF binding for some promoters. However, in all cases HSF accessibility correlated with the presence of paused RNA polymerase II. We propose that a complex promoter architecture is established by multiple interdependent factors, including GAGA factor, TFIID, and RNA polymerase II, and that this structure is critical for HSF binding in vivo.
Phage RNA polymerase vectors that allow efficient gene expression in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells.	We have developed expression vectors that direct the synthesis of proteins from a common set of signals in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. To allow transcription from a common promoter the vectors rely upon a phage RNA polymerase (RNAP). To direct initiation of translation to the same start codon the vectors utilize an internal ribosome entry site (IRES) from encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) that has been modified to include a prokaryotic ribosome-binding site (RBS) at an appropriate distance upstream from the desired start codon. These vectors provide levels of expression in eukaryotic cells that exceed those of a conventional RNAP-II-based system by 7-fold, and expression in bacterial cells at levels comparable to other phage RNAP-based systems. Inclusion of a lac repressor and a phage promoter/lac operator fusion element allows tight regulation. Cotransfection of eukaryotic cells with the expression vector and a vector that encodes the phage RNAP provides high-level transient expression without the need to construct specialized stable cell lines.
Functional domains of human RAP74 including a masked polymerase binding domain.	RAP74, the large subunit of human transcription factor IIF (TFIIF), has been analyzed by deletion mutagenesis and in vitro assays to map functional domains. Tight binding to the RAP30 subunit involves amino acids between positions 1-172. Amino acids 1-205 are minimally sufficient to stimulate accurate transcription from the adenovirus major late promoter in an extract system, although C-terminal sequences contribute to activity. A partially masked RNA polymerase II binding domain has been mapped to the C-terminal region of the protein (amino acids 363-444). Sequences near the N terminus and within the central portion of RAP74 affect accessibility of this domain. Extending this domain to 363-486 creates a peptide that binds polymerase and DNA and inhibits transcription initiation in vitro from non-promoter DNA sites. This larger C-terminal domain may modify polymerase interaction with template during initiation and/or elongation of RNA chains.
Abortive initiation and first bond formation at an activated adenovirus E4 promoter.	Abortive initiation at the adenovirus E4 promoter was studied by following the production of RNA formed from the initiating nucleotides UpA and CTP. Formation of a specific short RNA via a reaction with appropriate alpha-amanitin sensitivity required promoter, activator, and ATP. In the absence of any of these, an alpha-amanitin-resistant reaction led to lower levels of a product of unknown origin. The alpha-amanitin-sensitive reaction required open promoter complexes, as assayed directly by permanganate probing. This reaction was not blocked by the inhibition of polymerase C-terminal domain kinase activity or by the lack of DNA supercoiling. Thus, formation of the initial bond of the mRNA appears to require activator and ATP to open the DNA but not phosphorylation of the polymerase C-terminal domain. In addition, the abortive initiation reaction was strongly suppressed when all elongation substrates were present, suggesting that cycling to produce high amounts of abortive product is strongly disfavored during productive initiation at this promoter.
Splicing components are excluded from the transcriptionally inactive XY body in male meiotic nuclei.	The study of the effect of programmed cessation of transcription in a large nuclear domain, on the distribution of elements of the pre-mRNA splicing machinery, is the main aim of this paper. To this end, we took advantage of the nuclear partitioning of mouse spermatocytes early in meiosis into autosomal transcribing and XY nontranscribing compartments. This system also allows to extend this study to stages in sperm differentiation that are accompanied by reduction and eventual cessation of transcription. We show by indirect immunofluorescence in spermatogenetic cells that 1) fluorescent signals of the pre-mRNA splicing factors SF53/4 and SC35, of the Sm antigens, and of RNA polymerase II, are largely absent from the nontranscribing, X-inactivated compartment, but are abundantly present in the transcribing autosomal compartment and 2) the presence, gradual reduction, and absence of transcriptive activity in nuclei undergoing the sperm formation sequence are positively correlated with the fluorescence patterns of the antibodies against SF53/4, SC35, and the Sm antigens. These data suggest that cessation of transcription during spermatogenesis is accompanied by exclusion of the splicing machinery from nontranscribing chromatin to its vicinity.
In vitro transcription from the Nectria haematococca PDA1 promoter in an homologous extract reflects in vivo pisatin-responsive regulation.	The PDA1 gene of Nectria haematococca MP VI (anamorph: Fusarium solani) encodes pisatin demethylase. This enzyme detoxifies the isoflavanoid phytoalexin pisatin produced by the plant on which this fungus is pathogenic. Expression of pisatin demethylase activity is induced in a mycelium by pretreatment with pisatin. We have developed homologous in vitro system which accurately initiates transcription from the PDA1 promoter. Transcription levels in vitro reflect the same pisatin-responsive stimulation as measured for PDA1 mRNA in vivo, and are dependent upon sequences in the 5' upstream region of PDA1. Pisatin-responsive transcription from the PDA1 promoter indicates that initiation of transcription is a major regulatory step in the pisatin induction of pisatin demethylase expression.
X-ray crystallographic studies of eukaryotic transcription factors.	Our X-ray crystallographic work on eukaryotic transcription factors traverses the entire length of a typical class II nuclear gene promoter, including the TATA-box-binding protein, two b/HLH/Z promoter proximal binding factors (Max and USF), and an enhancer-binding factor (HNF-3 gamma). These high-resolution studies of specific protein/DNA interactions will be extended to include homologous proteins complexed with similar oligonucleotides and a systematic examination of the roles of individual amino acids and bases implicated in specific DNA binding. In the longer term, we will turn our attention to the myriad of protein/protein interactions occurring within TFIID and the PIC, and between the PIC and factors binding to promoter proximal and distal enhancer elements.
Genes encoding general initiation factors for RNA polymerase II transcription are dispersed in the human genome.	General transcription factors are required for accurate initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Human cDNAs encoding subunits of these factors have been cloned and sequenced. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), we show here that the genes encoding the TATA-box binding protein (TBP), TFIIB, TFIIE alpha, TFIIE beta, RAP30, RAP74 and the 62 kDa subunit, of TFIIH are located at the human chromosomal bands 6q26-27, 1p21-22, 3q21-24, 8p12, 13q14, 19p13.3 and 11p14-15.1, respectively. This dispersed localization of a group of functionally related gene provides insights into the molecular mechanism of human genome evolution and their possible involvement in human diseases.
Effects of repetitive and non-repetitive rat rDNA enhancer elements on in vivo transcription by RNA polymerases I and II.	Previous study has demonstrated that a far upstream 174-bp spacer sequence of the rat rRNA-encoding (rDNA) gene can function as an enhancer in vitro in an orientation- and distance-independent manner [Dixit et al., J. Biol. Chem. 262 (1987) 11616-11622]. To demonstrate that this element can also function in vivo, two rat rDNA-cat plasmids, one with the 174-bp element and the other without this sequence, were constructed and transfected into CHO cells. Primer extension analysis of the transcripts produced after transfection showed that transcription initiation occurred at the +1 site of the rDNA. The 174-bp sequence stimulated the rat polI promoter activity in cis 4-5-fold over the control (with the promoter alone). This RNA polymerase (polI) enhancer also stimulated the mouse metallothionein-I (MT-I) and SV40 promoter activities in vivo, irrespective of its distance and orientation. Further dissection of the 174-bp element revealed that the stimulatory activity on the RNA polymerase II (polII) promoter resides within the 37-bp and 43-bp domains at the 3' end of the 174-bp element. Unlike this spacer enhancer, the 130-bp repeat element (RE) proximal to the rat promoter [Ghosh et al., Gene 125 (1993) 217-222] was unable to modulate the polII promoter activity in vivo. These data show that while the non-repetitive enhancer sequence of rat rDNA is interchangeable for the polI and polII promoters, the RE is polI-specific.
DNA-binding-defective mutants of the Epstein-Barr virus lytic switch activator Zta transactivate with altered specificities.	The Epstein-Barr virus BRLF1 and BZLF1 genes are the first viral genes transcribed upon induction of the viral lytic cycle. The protein products of both genes (referred to here as Rta and Zta, respectively) activate expression of other viral genes, thereby initiating the lytic cascade. Among the viral antigens expressed upon induction of the lytic cycle, however, Zta is unique in its ability to disrupt viral latency; expression of the BZLF1 gene is both necessary and sufficient for triggering the viral lytic cascade. We have previously shown that Zta can activate its own promoter (Zp), through binding to two Zta recognition sequences (ZIIIA and ZIIIB). Here we describe mutant Zta proteins that do not bind DNA (referred to as Zta DNA-binding mutants [Zdbm]) but retain the ability to transactivate Zp. Consistent with the inability of these mutants to bind DNA, transactivation of Zp by Zdbm is not dependent on the Zta recognition sequences. Instead, transactivation by Zdbm is dependent upon promoter elements that bind cellular factors. An examination of other viral and cellular promoters identified promoters that are weakly responsive or unresponsive to Zdbm. An analysis of a panel of artificial promoters containing one copy of various promoter elements demonstrated a specificity for Zdbm activation that is distinct from that of Zta. These results suggest that non-DNA-binding forms of some transactivators retain the ability to transactivate specific target promoters without direct binding to DNA.
RNA polymerase II transcription. Rate of promoter clearance is enhanced by a purified activating transcription factor/cAMP response element-binding protein.	The core promoter of the human DNA beta-polymerase (beta-pol) gene is regulated by proteins binding at 3 GC boxes and the single activating transcription factor/cAMP response element (ATF/CRE) centered at -45; the central 8 residues of this ATF/CRE match the ATF/CRE consensus sequence, TGACGTCA. Previously, we purified a beta-pol promoter ATF/CRE-binding protein (named palindrome-binding protein or PBP) from bovine testes and found that this protein is a beta-pol promoter transcriptional activator in vitro using a HeLa nuclear extract transcription system (Widen, S. G., and Wilson, S. H. (1991) Biochemistry 30, 6296-6305). In this study, we determined the mechanism of in vitro transcriptional activation by this purified PBP. We used a PBP-depleted HeLa nuclear extract transcription system with an artificial promoter containing a solitary activator element corresponding to the entire 22-nucleotide beta-pol promoter ATF/CRE-binding site. Kinetic analyses of the 180-nucleotide run-off product formation indicated that stimulation of transcriptional activity by PBP was due entirely to an increase in the rate constant for promoter clearance. Thus, under our conditions, the purified PBP had no effect on the rate of closed preinitiation complex formation or for the closed complex to open complex transition. Instead, the rate of productive initiation leading to the 180-nucleotide transcript was stimulated by PBP. We found that the rate of closed preinitiation complex formation was not in rapid equilibrium with promoter and RNA polymerase II, in contrast to the model with prokaryotic RNA polymerase transcription. The results also indicated that PBP binding to the ATF/CRE is required for the stimulation of promoter clearance. These studies define the kinetic mechanism of a purified ATF/CRE-binding protein in stimulation of the in vitro transcription of a designed mammalian promoter.
Functional analysis of Drosophila factor 5 (TFIIF), a general transcription factor.	Factor 5 is a Drosophila RNA polymerase II initiation factor that also affects the elongation phase of transcription. We have used a cDNA encoding the large subunit of factor 5 (F5a) to produce recombinant F5a (rF5a). Antibodies directed against peptides deduced from the sequence of the F5a cDNA recognized rF5a and the large subunit of factor 5 purified from Kc cells. A chimeric human/fly factor composed of the small subunit of human TFIIF (RAP30) and rF5a stimulated elongation by Drosophila RNA polymerase II when assayed using a dC-tailed template. In addition, the chimeric human/fly factor functioned during initiation in either the Drosophila or human system. Therefore, the structure of the large subunit of TFIIF is sufficiently conserved from human to fly to allow functional interaction with both the small subunit of TFIIF and RNA polymerase II from either species. Analysis of deletion mutants of F5a indicated that almost all of the protein was required for initiation while only the NH2-terminal region was required for stimulating transcriptional elongation. A comparison of our results with those obtained with RAP74 suggest that the carboxyl terminal region of the protein may be involved in interactions with RNA polymerase II or other factors during initiation.
Drosophila TAFII150: similarity to yeast gene TSM-1 and specific binding to core promoter DNA.	In Drosophila and human cells, the TATA binding protein (TBP) of the transcription factor IID (TFIID) complex is tightly associated with multiple subunits termed TBP-associated factors (TAFs) that are essential for mediating regulation of RNA polymerase II transcription. The Drosophila TAFII150 has now been molecularly cloned and biochemically characterized. The deduced primary amino acid sequence of dTAFII150 reveals a striking similarity to the essential yeast gene, TSM-1. Furthermore, like dTAFII150, the TSM-1 protein is found associated with the TBP in vivo, thus identifying the first yeast homolog of a TAF associated with TFIID. Both the product of TSM-1 and dTAFII150 bind directly to TBP and dTAFII250, demonstrating a functional similarity between human and yeast TAFs. Surprisingly, DNA binding studies indicate that purified recombinant dTAFII150 binds specifically to DNA sequences overlapping the start site of transcription. The data demonstrate that at least one of the TAFs is a sequence-specific DNA binding protein and that dTAFII150 together with TBP are responsible for TFIID interactions with an extended region of the core promoter.
Effects of activation-defective TBP mutations on transcription initiation in yeast.	Transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II is effected by an ordered series of general factor interactions with core promoter elements (leading to basal activity) and further regulated by gene-specific factors acting from distal elements. Both the general factor TFIID (refs 2,3), including the constituent TBP (TATA-binding polypeptide) and associated factors, and the interacting factor TFIIB (refs 9-11) have been implicated as targets for various activators. Towards an understanding of the basis for activator function, including the multiplicity of TBP interactions, we have now identified mutations in yeast TBP that selectively block activator (GAL4-VP16)-dependent but not basal transcription. We further show an effect of GAL4-VP16 on TFIIB recruitment to early preinitiation complexes, and that recruitment is disrupted by TBP mutations that impair its interactions with VP16 (L114K), TFIIB (L189K) or an unidentified component (K211L). Thus, GAL4-VP16 function seems to involve both direct interactions with TBP and a corresponding induction (or stabilization) of an activation-specific TBP-TFIIB-promoter complex.
Distribution of B52 within a chromosomal locus depends on the level of transcription.	Drosophila B52 protein is a homologue of human ASF/SF2 that functions in vitro as an essential pre-mRNA splicing factor. Immunofluorescence analysis of polytene chromosomes has shown that B52 generally colocalizes with RNA polymerase II; however, in contrast to other splicing factors, B52 brackets RNA polymerase II at highly active heat-shock puffs. Also, UV cross-linking in nonpolytene cells has shown that B52 cross-links in vivo to DNA flanking the highly active transcription units. Here, we find that the distribution of cross-linked B52 at heat-shock loci depends on transcription levels. Heat shocks at low and moderate temperatures, which induce corresponding levels of transcription, recruit B52 both to transcribed DNA and to flanking DNA, whereas a full heat-shock induction concentrates B52 on the DNA that brackets the entire activated region. We have also identified a 46-kDa protein from Chironomus tentans that binds Drosophila B52 antibodies and has a distribution on chromosomes analogous to B52. This protein is found throughout the moderately transcribed Balbiani rings. However, when transcription at these rings is hyperinduced to levels comparable to fully induced Drosophila heat-shock genes, the protein is restricted to the boundaries of highly decondensed chromatin. We suggest that B52 tracks to chromatin fibers that are folding or unfolding, and we discuss this in light of B52's proposed roles in pre-mRNA splicing and control.
Dynamics of interaction of RNA polymerase II with nucleosomes. I. Effect of salts.	Mononucleosomes were labeled with the sulfhydryl-specific fluorescence probe 1,5-IAEDANS (5-(2-((iodoacetyl)amino)ethyl)amino-naphthalene-1-sulfonic acid) by attaching the dye to the single cysteine of H3 through a covalent linkage. The enzyme RNA polymerase II (pol II) utilized the native and the reconstituted fluorescent nucleosomes as templates with greatest efficiency when 0.2 M potassium acetate (AcOK) was used as the supporting salt; 0.2 M NaCl was found to be very much inhibitory. Measurement of polarity of the microenvironment of the dye at its binding site in the nucleosome showed the conformation to be more open in the presence of AcOK, compared to that in 0.1 or 0.2 M NaCl. The binding of pol II to the nucleosome resulted in a relatively more compact structure when measured in terms of the polarity of the microenvironment of the dye in various salt-dependent conformations of the nucleosomes. Time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy showed that the probe molecule at its binding site undergoes certain excited-state processes, and the presence/absence or rate of these excited-state processes depends on the conformation of nucleosomes, which in turn depends on the type and concentration of the ion present in the medium. Time-resolved emission spectra showed that binding of nucleosomes by pol II established some new contacts that resulted in inaccessibility of the dye to the bulk solvent, reflecting a more hydrophobic environment for the dye in the steady-state spectra. Thus, binding or transcription of nucleosomes by pol II did not break open their structure. Rather, some transient internal adjustments within the histone octamer may take place to accommodate the bulky pol II molecule.
Dynamics of interaction of RNA polymerase II with nucleosomes. II. During read-through and elongation.	The sulfhydryl-specific fluorescence probe 1,5-IAEDANS (5-(2-((iodoacetyl)amino)ethyl)amino-naphthalene-1-sulfonic acid) was attached to the single cysteine of H3, and reconstituted fluorescent mononucleosomes were used as the template for in vitro transcription by the yeast RNA polymerase II (pol II). DNase I digestion analysis revealed that transcription of nucleosomes by pol II resulted in an overall loosening of the structure. Monitoring the transcription event by steady-state fluorescence analysis showed that nucleosomes only partially open during transcription. This opening is transient in nature, and nucleosomes close back as soon as the pol II falls off the template. Thus, using the technique of fluorescence spectroscopy, partial opening of nucleosome structure could be differentiated from complete dissociation into free DNA and histone octamer, a distinction that may not be possible by techniques like gel electrophoresis. Time-resolved fluorescence emission spectroscopy suggested that during read-through of the template by the pol II, histone octamers do not fall off the DNA. Only minor conformational changes within the histone octamer take place to accommodate the transcribing polymerase.
Opening promoters for m-RNA transcription.	Approximately 40 years ago it was found that the natural form of DNA was double-stranded. The basis for recognition between the two strands was base-pairing and this led to a potential paradox regarding transcription. If the formation of m-RNA used the same base-pairing patterns to match RNA to DNA then that pairing could not occur with DNA in its double-stranded form. The problem was resolved by proposing that the DNA would be opened locally and transiently during the act of transcription. This would allow the DNA to remain largely double-stranded but would allow local sequences to be copied into RNA. Because the double-stranded form of DNA is more stable than the single-stranded form, it was recognized that this transient opening of the DNA would require energy. Energy-requiring steps tend to occur slowly and thus it was thought that DNA opening might be the critical rate-limiting step in transcription. We now know that this is often, but by no means always, true for bacterial transcription (McClure, 1985; Sasse-Dwight and Gralla, 1989). In the case of mammalian m-RNA formation, the open complex was identified only very recently and so it is too soon to generalize (Wang et al., 1992a). The purpose of this article is to report on recent progress concerning how open transcription complexes form.
Transcription elongation by RNA polymerase II: mechanism of SII activation.	RNA chain elongation by RNA polymerase is a dynamic process. Techniques that allow the isolation of active elongation complexes have enabled investigators to describe individual steps in the polymerization of RNA chains. This article will describe recent studies of elongation by RNA polymerase II (pol II). At least four types of blockage to chain elongation can be overcome by elongation factor SII: (a) naturally occurring "arrest" sequences, (b) DNA-bound protein, (c) drugs bound in the DNA minor groove, and (d) chain-terminating substrates incorporated into the RNA chain. SII binds to RNA polymerase II and stimulates a ribonuclease activity that shortens nascent transcripts from their 3' ends. This RNA cleavage is required for chain elongation from some template positions. As a result, the pol II elongation complex can repeatedly shorten and reextend the nascent RNA chain in a process we refer to as cleavage-resynthesis. Hence, assembly of large RNAs does not necessarily proceed in a direct manner. The ability to shorten and reextend nascent RNAs means that a transcription impediment through which only half the enzyme molecules can proceed per encounter, can be overcome by 99% of the molecules after six iterations of cleavage-resynthesis. Surprisingly, the boundaries of the elongation complex do not move upstream after RNA cleavage. The physico-chemical alterations in the elongation complex that accompany RNA cleavage and permit renewed chain elongation are not yet understood.
Transcriptional pausing, arrest, and readthrough at the adenovirus major late attenuation site.	RNA polymerase II (pol II) transcription complexes initiated from the adenovirus major late promoter can become blocked both in vitro and in vivo at a specific site within the first intron of the transcription unit. In vitro, polymerases that fail to read through the major late attenuation site remain stably bound to the template in a ternary complex that is indefinitely blocked from continuing elongation, a phenomenon referred to as "arrest." Elongation factor SII has been shown both to promote readthrough of this and other arrest sites and to stimulate a previously unknown 3' to 5' exonuclease activity of pol II. We have proposed that the two activities are related and that SII promotes readthrough by means of the enhancement of the exonuclease activity. In the experiments reported here, we have tested several features of that model. In particular, we have examined the hypothesis that SII stimulates readthrough by allowing the polymerase to undergo multiple cycles of removal and resynthesis of RNA bases preceding the attenuation site. In addition, we present experimental support for the proposal that the length of time polymerase pauses at the attenuation site is important to the efficiency of arrest. The results of these experiments are discussed in the context of the model.
Mechanism and regulation of yeast RNA polymerase II transcription.	Fractionation of yeast whole-cell extract has led to the identification and purification of four novel proteins required for promoter-dependent transcription by RNA polymerase II in vitro. These initiation factors have been shown to be related in structure and function to RNA polymerase II initiation factors purified from mammalian cells. When combined with the well known TATA-binding protein, the entire set of initiation factors proves necessary and sufficient for accurate initiation from a variety of eukaryotic promoters. Studies with this defined transcription system have revealed the existence of additional proteins required for transcriptional activation or derepression by enhancer-binding regulatory proteins.
Transcription rates and transcript stabilities of macronuclear genes in vegetative Euplotes crassus cells.	In hypotrichous ciliates such as Euplotes crassus genes in the transcriptionally active macronucleus are present on individual minichromosomes which occur in gene-specific copy numbers. This different degree of gene amplification can be understood as a means to preset the expression potential of the respective genetic information. In addition, the actual steady state transcript amounts are governed by the transcription rates and transcript stabilities. To establish the relative effects of these three parameters the copy numbers of genes transcribed by the three different polymerases were determined. The transcript levels of growing or starving vegetative cells were then determined, and nuclear run-on assays were performed to determine the transcription rates of the genes in the different nutritional states. A weak correlation between the gene copy numbers and transcription rates was found. The transcripts of genes synthesized by RNA polymerase II exhibited different stabilities upon starvation of the cells, compared to the supposedly stable ribosomal 5S and 26S RNA. Refeeding of the cells after starvation also resulted in a differential response with respect to the accumulation of the transcripts of different genes transcribed by RNA polymerase II, which can be interpreted in the context of the gene functions.
A novel cDNA with homology to an RNA polymerase II elongation factor maps to human chromosome 5q31 (TCEB1L) and to mouse chromosome 11 (Tceb1l).	Few of the auxiliary factors that assist RNA polymerase II in the process of mRNA chain elongation have been identified. We have isolated a novel cDNA, Tceb1l, from mouse and human sources that encodes a 163-amino-acid protein and shows a significant level of identity with a recently identified RNA polymerase II transcription elongation factor, p15. Tceb1l is highly conserved throughout vertebrates and maps to mouse chromosome 11 and to the syntenic region of human chromosome 5q31. Tceb1l shows a restricted pattern of expression in the early mouse embryo, where it is absent from the neurectoderm; later Tceb1l is expressed in the caudal region of the neural tube, followed by widespread expression in many tissues, including the brain and spinal cord. These observations are consistent with Tceb1l being an RNA polymerase II elongation factor and suggest that Tceb1l/p15-like peptides may be a new family of proteins that influence RNA elongation.
Mutations in nucleolar proteins lead to nucleolar accumulation of polyA+ RNA in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Synthesis of mRNA and rRNA occur in the chromatin-rich nucleoplasm and the nucleolus, respectively. Nevertheless, we here report that a Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene, MTR3, previously implicated in mRNA transport, codes for a novel essential 28-kDa nucleolar protein. Moreover, in mtr3-1 the accumulated polyA+ RNA actually colocalizes with nucleolar antigens, the nucleolus becomes somewhat disorganized, and rRNA synthesis and processing are inhibited. A strain with a ts conditional mutation in RNA polymerase I also shows nucleolar accumulation of polyA+ RNA, whereas strains with mutations in the nucleolar protein Nop1p do not. Thus, in several mutant backgrounds, when mRNA cannot be exported i concentrates in the nucleolus. mRNA may normally encounter nucleolar components before export and proteins such as Mtr3p may be critical for export of both mRNA and ribosomal subunits.
Transcriptional activation. A holistic view of the complex.	Recent studies on gene regulation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae support the view that eukaryotic activators stimulate transcription by recruiting an RNA polymerase II holoenzyme to the promoter in a single step.
Nuclear morphogenesis and the onset of transcriptional activity in early hamster embryos.	Coiled bodies and interchromatin granules are distinct subnuclear domains that contain splicing small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs) and protein-splicing factors. Here we have studied the morphogenesis of coiled bodies and clusters of interchromatin granules in relation to the onset of transcriptional activity in early hamster embryos. The results indicate that major embryonic transcription by RNA polymerase II is first detected during the early two-cell stage (15-20 h post-fertilization), whereas RNA polymerase I activity and nucleologenesis are only observed in late two-cell embryos (30-40 h postfertilization). Splicing snRNPs and heterogeneous nuclear RNP (hnRNP) proteins are shown to be imported into the pronuclei following fertilization, and prominent clusters of interchromatin granules containing the splicing factor SC-35 are already observed in both maternal and paternal pronuclei of one-cell embryos. Interestingly, these large clusters of interchromatin granules do not appear to concentrate splicing snRNPs. In contrast, coiled bodies are first detected during the two-cell stage after the onset of transcription, and they are clearly enriched in snRNPs. Taken together with results previously obtained in mouse embryos, these data suggest that the assembly of coiled bodies and clusters of interchromatin granules is independent from the onset of embryonic transcriptional activity, and that coiled bodies represent the major snRNP-enriched subnuclear domain in the early mammalian embryo.
Isolation and characterization of TAF25, an essential yeast gene that encodes an RNA polymerase II-specific TATA-binding protein-associated factor.	We describe the cloning and analysis of TAF25, a previously uncharacterized yeast gene that encodes a yeast TATA-binding protein-associated factor or yTAF of Mr = 25,000. The gene encoding yTAF25 is a single copy essential gene, and the protein sequence deduced from TAF25 exhibits sequence similarity to a metazoan hTAFII. The results from immunological studies confirm that yTAF25 is a subunit of a large multiprotein TATA-binding protein-yeast TATA-binding protein-associated factor complex that contains a subset of the total number of the yTAFs present in yeast cell extracts. Both genetic and biochemical analyses demonstrate that yTAF25 can interact directly with itself. Transcriptional data show that the activity of the multiprotein complex containing yTAF25 is RNA polymerase II-specific, thus indicating that TAF25 encodes a bona fide yeast RNA polymerase II TAF. Hence the protein encoded by TAF25 has been termed yTAFII25.
TFIIH functions in regulating transcriptional elongation by RNA polymerase II in Xenopus oocytes.	We investigated the role of TFIIH in transcription by RNA polymerase II (pol II) in vivo by microinjection of antibodies against this factor into Xenopus oocytes. Five different antibodies directed against four subunits of TFIIH were tested for effects on transcription of coinjected human immunodeficiency virus type 2 and c-myc templates. Each of these antibodies severely reduced the efficiency of elongation through human immunodeficiency virus type 2 and c-myc terminator elements. In contrast, an anti-TFIIB antibody did not inhibit elongation. Anti-TFIIH antibodies also had a much smaller inhibitory effect on total transcription than did anti-TFIIB or anti-pol II large subunit. Three inhibitors of TFIIH kinase activity, H-7, H-8, and dichlororibofuranosylbenzimidazole (DRB), inhibited elongation similarly to anti-TFIIH antibodies. These results strongly suggest a role for TFIIH in the stimulation of transcriptional elongation in vivo.
The human immunodeficiency virus Tat proteins specifically associate with TAK in vivo and require the carboxyl-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II for function.	Human immunodeficiency virus types 1 and 2 encode closely related proteins, Tat-1 and Tat-2, that stimulate viral transcription. Previously, we showed that the activation domains of these proteins specifically interact in vitro with a cellular protein kinase named TAK. In vitro, TAK phosphorylates the Tat-2 but not the Tat-1 protein, a 42-kDa polypeptide of unknown identity, and the carboxyl-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (RNAP II). We now show that the 42-kDa substrate of TAK cochromatographs with TAK activity, suggesting that this 42-kDa polypeptide is a subunit of TAK. We also show that the Tat proteins specifically associate with TAK in vivo, since wild-type Tat-1 and Tat-2 proteins expressed in mammalian cells, but not mutant Tat proteins containing a nonfunctional activation domain, can be coimmunoprecipitated with TAK. We also mapped the in vivo phosphorylation sites of Tat-2 to the carboxyl terminus of the protein, but analysis of proteins with mutations at these sites suggests that phosphorylation is not essential for Tat-2 transactivation function. We further investigated whether the CTD of RNAP II is required for Tat function in vivo. Using plasmid constructs that express an alpha-amanitin-resistant RNAP II subunit with a truncated or full-length CTD, we found that an intact CTD is required for Tat function. These observations strengthen the proposal that the mechanism of action of Tat involves the recruitment or activation of TAK, resulting in activated transcription through phosphorylation of the CTD.
Isolation and characterization of two human transcription factor IIH (TFIIH)-related complexes: ERCC2/CAK and TFIIH.	Transcription factor IIH (TFIIH) is a multisubunit protein complex essential for both the initiation of RNA polymerase class II (pol II)-catalyzed transcription and nucleotide excision repair of DNA. Recent studies have shown that TFIIH copurifies with the cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk)-activating kinase complex (CAK) that includes cdk7, cyclin H, and p36/MAT1. Here we report the isolation of two TFIIH-related complexes: TFIIH* and ERCC2/CAK. TFIIH* consists of a subset of the TFIIH complex proteins including ERCC3 (XPB), p62, p44, p41, and p34 but is devoid of detectable levels of ERCC2 (XPD) and CAK. ERCC2/CAK was isolated as a complex that exhibits CAK activity that cosediments with the three CAK components (cdk7, cyclin H, and p36/MAT1) as well as the ERCC2 (XPD) protein. TFIIH* can support pol II-catalyzed transcription in vitro with lower efficiency compared with TFIIH. This TFIIH*-dependent transcription reaction was stimulated by ERCC2/CAK. The ERCC2/CAK and TFIIH* complexes are each active in DNA repair as shown by their ability to complement extracts prepared from ERCC2 (XPD)- and ERCC3 (XPB)-deficient cells, respectively, in supporting the excision of DNA containing a cholesterol lesion. These data suggest that TFIIH* and ERCC2/CAK interact to form the TFIIH holoenzyme capable of efficiently assembling the pol II transcription initiation complex and directly participating in excision repair reactions.
Characterization of the interaction between the acidic activation domain of VP16 and the RNA polymerase II initiation factor TFIIB.	Contact between a transcriptional activator and one or more components of the RNA polymerase II transcription initiation machinery is generally believed important for activators to function. Several different molecular targets have been suggested for direct contact by herpes simplex virus virion protein VP16, including the general initiation factor TFIIB. In this report we have used several strategies to critically assess this interaction between VP16 and TFIIB. Affinity columns of VP16 bound TFIIB activity from HeLa cell extracts and the binding was reduced by mutations in the activation domain of VP16. In assays of direct binding, VP16 bound recombinant human TFIIB but not Drosophila or yeast TFIIB. Unlike binding from an extract, however, we found that the interaction between VP16 and recombinant human TFIIB was not affected by mutations in VP16 that reduce transactivation. Point mutations within human TFIIB that reduce transactivation by VP16 have been shown to reduce VP16 binding, but we show here that these same mutations critically affect both the important TBP-TFIIB interaction and the ability of TFIIB to support activator-independent basal transcription in vitro. Taken together our results suggest more evidence is needed to support the notion that TFIIB is a functionally important target for the activator VP16.
Distinct steady-state nuclear receptor coregulator complexes exist in vivo.	Transcriptional regulation by members of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily is a modular process requiring the mediation of distinct subclasses of coregulators. These subclasses include members of the steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1) coactivator family, p300/CBP and their associated proteins, such as p300/CBP-associated factor, human homologs of SWI/SNF proteins such as BRG-1, and the less well-characterized E3 ubiquitin-protein ligases E6 papillomavirus protein-associated protein and receptor-potentiating factor-1. Because functional studies indicate that these coregulators may form higher order complexes, we analyzed steady-state complexes of different coregulator subclasses in vivo. T47D and HeLa cell lysates were subjected to biochemical fractionation and screened by immunoblotting using coregulator-specific antibodies. We show that different subclasses of nuclear receptor coregulators exhibit distinct fractionation profiles. Furthermore, evidence is provided that SRC-1 family members may exist in vivo in heteromultimeric forms with each other. In addition, we demonstrate that liganded PR is present in stable complexes containing SRC-1 and transcription intermediary factor 2 (TIF2) in vivo. Our results suggest that the assembly of large, modular transcriptional complexes by recruitment of distinct subclasses of preformed coregulator subcomplexes may be involved in transcriptional regulation by activated nuclear receptors.
Srb/mediator proteins interact functionally and physically with transcriptional repressor Sfl1.	Srb/mediator proteins that are associated with RNA polymerase II holoenzyme have been implicated in transcriptional repression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We show here that the defect in repression of SUC2 caused by mutation of SRB8, SRB9, SRB11, SIN4 or ROX3 is suppressed by increased dosage of the SFL1 gene, and the genetic behavior of the sfl1Delta mutation provides further evidence for a functional relationship. Sfl1 acts on SUC2 through a repression site located immediately 5' to the TATA box, and Sfl1 binds this DNA sequence in vitro. Moreover, LexA-Sfl1 represses transcription of a reporter, and repression is reduced in an srb9 mutant. Finally, we show that Sfl1 co-immunoprecipitates from cell extracts with Srb9, Srb11, Sin4 and Rox3. We propose that Sfl1, when bound to its site, interacts with Srb/mediator proteins to inhibit transcription by RNA polymerase II holoenzyme.
Mechanism of action of RNA polymerase II elongation factor Elongin. Maximal stimulation of elongation requires conversion of the early elongation complex to an Elongin-activable form.	We previously identified and purified Elongin by its ability to stimulate the rate of elongation by RNA polymerase II in vitro (Bradsher, J. N., Jackson, K. W., Conaway, R. C., and Conaway, J. W. (1993) J. Biol. Chem. 268, 25587-25593). In this report, we present evidence that stimulation of elongation by Elongin requires that the early RNA polymerase II elongation complex undergoes conversion to an Elongin-activable form. We observe (i) that Elongin does not detectably stimulate the rate of promoter-specific transcription initiation by the fully assembled preinitiation complex and (ii) that early RNA polymerase II elongation intermediates first become susceptible to stimulation by Elongin after synthesizing 8-9-nucleotide-long transcripts. Furthermore, we show that the relative inability of Elongin to stimulate elongation by early elongation intermediates correlates not with the lengths of their associated transcripts but, instead, with the presence of transcription factor IIF (TFIIF) in transcription reactions. By exploiting adenovirus 2 major late promoter derivatives that contain premelted transcriptional start sites and do not require TFIIF, TFIIE, or TFIIH for transcription initiation, we observe (i) that Elongin is capable of strongly stimulating the rate of synthesis of trinucleotide transcripts by a subcomplex of RNA polymerase II, TBP, and TFIIB and (ii) that the ability of Elongin to stimulate synthesis of these short transcripts is substantially reduced by addition of TFIIF to transcription reactions. Here we present these findings, which are consistent with the model that maximal stimulation of elongation by Elongin requires that early elongation intermediates undergo a structural transition that includes loss of TFIIF.
Transcriptional properties of RNA polymerase II within triplet repeat-containing DNA from the human myotonic dystrophy and fragile X loci.	Expansion of a (CTG)n segment within the 3'-untranslated region of the myotonic dystrophy protein kinase gene alters mRNA production. The inherent ability of RNA polymerase II to transcribe (CTG)17-255 tracts corresponding to DNA from normal, unstable, and affected individuals, and the normal (CGG)54 fragile X repeat tract, was analyzed using a synchronized in vitro transcription system. Core RNA polymerase II transcribed all repeat units irrespective of repeat length or orientation. However, approximately 50% of polymerases transiently halted transcription (with a half-life of approximately 10 +/- 1 s) within the first and second CTG repeat unit and a more transient barrier to elongation was observed roughly centered within repeats 6-9. Transcription within the remainder of the CTG tracts and within the CCG, CGG, and CAG tracts appeared uniform with average transcription rates of 170, 250, 300, and 410 nucleotides/min, respectively. These differences correlated with changes in the sequence-specific transient pausing pattern within the CNG repeat tracts; individual incorporation rates were slower after incorporation of pyrimidine residues. Unexpectedly, approximately 4% of the run-off transcripts were, depending on the repeat sequence, either 15 or 18 nucleotides longer than expected. However, these products were not produced by transcriptional slippage within the repeat tract.
Template end-to-end transposition by RNA polymerase II.	On 5'-template strand protruding templates, promoter-initiated run-off transcription by RNA polymerase II generates discrete, 15-16-nucleotide (nt) longer than expected products whose production is abrogated by elongation factor SII (Parsons, M. A., Sinden, R. R., and Izban, M. G. (1998) J. Biol. Chem. 273, 26998-27008). We demonstrate that template terminal complexes produce these RNAs and that transcript extension is a general and salt-sensitive (250 mM) feature of run-off transcription. On 5'-overhung templates the extended run-off transcripts appear to be retained within an RNA-DNA-enzyme ternary complex, and SII facilitates resumption of transcript elongation via a dinucleotide truncation intermediate. Moreover, on one of the 5-overhung templates, the initially extended complexes spontaneously resumed transcript extension and were uniquely resistant to salt (250 mM) challenge. However, SII did not facilitate this long distance extension on all template ends. Run-off transcripts on a blunt-ended template were initially extended by 2-11 nt (roughly in 2-nt increments); SII addition either before or after extension resulted in the accumulation of a 4-5-nt extension product. Based on these findings, we propose that the initial and continuously extended RNAs reflect intermediates and successful completion of template end-to-end transposition (template switching) by RNA polymerase II, respectively. Both the template end sequence and structure influenced the success of such an event.
The perinucleolar compartment and transcription.	The perinucleolar compartment (PNC) is a unique nuclear structure localized at the periphery of the nucleolus. Several small RNAs transcribed by RNA polymerase III and two hnRNP proteins have been localized in the PNC (Ghetti, A., S. Piol-Roma, W.M. Michael, C. Morandi, and G. Dreyfuss. 1992. Nucleic Acids Res. 20:3671-3678; Matera, A.G., M.R. Frey, K. Margelot, and S.L. Wolin. 1995. J. Cell Biol. 129:1181- 1193; Timchenko, L.T., J.W. Miller, N.A. Timchenko, D.R. DeVore, K.V. Datar, L. Lin, R. Roberts, C.T. Caskey, and M.S. Swanson. 1996. Nucleic Acids Res. 24: 4407-4414; Huang, S., T. Deerinck, M.H. Ellisman, and D.L. Spector. 1997. J. Cell Biol. 137:965-974). In this report, we show that the PNC incorporates Br-UTP and FITC-conjugated CTP within 5 min of pulse labeling. Selective inhibition of RNA polymerase I does not appreciably affect the nucleotide incorporation in the PNC. Inhibition of all RNA polymerases by actinomycin D blocks the incorporation completely, suggesting that Br-UTP incorporation in the PNC is due to transcription by RNA polymerases II and/or III. Treatment of cells with an RNA polymerase II and III inhibitor induces a significant reorganization of the PNC. In addition, double labeling experiments showed that poly(A) RNA and some of the factors required for pre-mRNA processing were localized in the PNC in addition to being distributed in their previously characterized nucleoplasmic domains. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) analysis revealed a rapid turnover of polypyrimidine tract binding protein within the PNC, demonstrating the dynamic nature of the structure. Together, these findings suggest that the PNC is a functional compartment involved in RNA metabolism in the cell nucleus.
FCP1, the RAP74-interacting subunit of a human protein phosphatase that dephosphorylates the carboxyl-terminal domain of RNA polymerase IIO.	TFIIF (RAP30/74) is a general initiation factor that also increases the rate of elongation by RNA polymerase II. A two-hybrid screen for RAP74-interacting proteins produced cDNAs encoding FCP1a, a novel, ubiquitously expressed human protein that interacts with the carboxyl-terminal evolutionarily conserved domain of RAP74. Related cDNAs encoding FCP1b lack a carboxyl-terminal RAP74-binding domain of FCP1a. FCP1 is an essential subunit of a RAP74-stimulated phosphatase that processively dephosphorylates the carboxyl-terminal domain of the largest RNA polymerase II subunit. FCP1 is also a stoichiometric component of a human RNA polymerase II holoenzyme complex.
Efficient recruitment of TFIIB and CBP-RNA polymerase II holoenzyme by an interferon-beta enhanceosome in vitro.	The transcriptional activity of an in vitro assembled human interferon-beta gene enhanceosome is highly synergistic. This synergy requires five distinct transcriptional activator proteins (ATF2/c-JUN, interferon regulatory factor 1, and p50/p65 of NF-kappaB), the high mobility group protein HMG I(Y), and the correct alignment of protein-binding sites on the face of the DNA double helix. Here, we investigate the mechanisms of enhanceosome-dependent transcriptional synergy during preinitiation complex assembly in vitro. We show that the stereospecific assembly of the enhanceosome is critical for the efficient recruitment of TFIIB into a template-committed TFIID-TFIIA-USA (upstream stimulatory activity complex) and for the subsequent recruitment of the RNA polymerase II holoenzyme complex. In addition, we provide evidence that recruitment of the holoenzyme by the enhanceosome is due, at least in part, to interactions between the enhanceosome and the transcriptional coactivator CREB, cAMP responsive element binding protein (CBP). These studies reveal a unique role of enhanceosomes in the cooperative assembly of the transcription machinery on the human interferon-beta promoter.
RNA polymerase II elongation complexes containing the Cockayne syndrome group B protein interact with a molecular complex containing the transcription factor IIH components xeroderma pigmentosum B and p62.	Transcription factor IIH (TFIIH) is involved both in transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II and in nucleotide excision-repair. Nucleotide excision-repair occurs at higher rates in transcriptionally active regions of the genome. Genetic studies indicate that this transcription-coupled repair is dependent on the Cockayne syndrome group A and B proteins, as well as TFIIH subunits. Previous work indicated that Cockayne syndrome group B interacts with RNA polymerase II molecules engaged in ternary complexes containing DNA and RNA. Evidence presented here indicates that this complex can interact with a factor containing the TFIIH core subunits p62 and xeroderma pigmentosum subunit B/excision repair cross-complementing 3. The targeting of TFIIH or a TFIIH-like repair factor to transcriptionally active DNA indicates a potential mechanism for transcription-coupled repair in human cells.
Novel cofactors and TFIIA mediate functional core promoter selectivity by the human TAFII150-containing TFIID complex.	TATA-binding protein-associated factors (TAFIIs) within TFIID control differential gene transcription through interactions with both activators and core promoter elements. In particular, TAFII150 contributes to initiator-dependent transcription through an unknown mechanism. Here, we address whether TAFIIs within TFIID are sufficient, in conjunction with highly purified general transcription factors (GTFs), for differential core promoter-dependent transcription by RNA polymerase II and whether additional cofactors are required. We identify the human homologue of Drosophila TAFII150 through cognate cDNA cloning and show that it is a tightly associated component of human TFIID. More importantly, we demonstrate that the human TAFII150-containing TFIID complex is not sufficient, in the context of all purified GTFs and RNA polymerase II, to mediate transcription synergism between TATA and initiator elements and initiator-directed transcription from a TAFII-dependent TATA-less promoter. Therefore, TAFII-promoter interactions are not sufficient for the productive core promoter-selective functions of TFIID. Consistent with this finding, we have partially purified novel cofactor activities (TICs) that potentiate the TAFII-mediated synergism between TATA and initiator elements (TIC-1) and TAFII-dependent transcription from TATA-less promoters (TIC-2 and -3). Furthermore, we demonstrate an essential function for TFIIA in TIC- and TAFII-dependent basal transcription from a TATA-less promoter. Our results reveal a parallel between the basal transcription activity of TAFIIs through core promoter elements and TAFII-dependent activator function.
A Ras-dependent pathway regulates RNA polymerase II phosphorylation in cardiac myocytes: implications for cardiac hypertrophy.	Despite extensive evidence implicating Ras in cardiac muscle hypertrophy, the mechanisms involved are unclear. We previously reported that Ras, through an effector-like function of Ras GTPase-activating protein (GAP) in neonatal cardiac myocytes (M. Abdellatif et al., J. Biol. Chem. 269:15423-15426, 1994; M. Abdellatif and M. D. Schneider, J. Biol. Chem. 272:527-533, 1997), can up-regulate expression from a comprehensive set of promoters, including both cardiac cell-specific and constitutive ones. To investigate the mechanism(s) underlying these earlier findings, we have used recombinant adenoviruses harboring a dominant negative Ras (17N Ras) allele or the N-terminal domain of GAP (nGAP), responsible for the Ras-like effector function. Inhibition of endogenous Ras reduced basal levels of [3H]uridine and [3H]phenylalanine incorporation into total RNA, mRNA, and protein, with parallel changes in apparent cell size. In addition, 17N Ras markedly inhibited phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (pol II), known to regulate transcript elongation, accompanied by down-regulation of its principal kinase, cyclin-dependent kinase 7 (Cdk7). In contrast, nGAP elicited the opposite effects on each of these parameters. Furthermore, cotransfection of constitutively active Ras (12R Ras) with wild-type pol II, rather than a truncated mutant lacking the CTD, demonstrated that Ras activation of transcription was dependent on the pol II CTD. Consistent with a potential role for this pathway in the development of cardiac myocyte hypertrophy, alpha1-adrenergic stimulation similarly enhanced pol II phosphorylation and Cdk7 expression, where both effects were inhibited by dominant negative Ras, while pressure overload hypertrophy led to an increase in both hyperphosphorylated and hypophosphorylated pol II in addition to Cdk7.
Broad, but not universal, transcriptional requirement for yTAFII17, a histone H3-like TAFII present in TFIID and SAGA.	The RNA polymerase II general transcription factor TFIID is a multisubunit complex comprising TATA box-binding protein (TBP) and associated factors (TAFIIs). Experiments in yeast have shown that although most TAFIIs are required for viability, many genes are transcribed normally upon inactivation of individual and even multiple yTAFIIs. Here we analyze yTAFII17, recently found to be present in both the SAGA HAT complex as well as TFIID. Functional inactivation of yTAFII17 by temperature-sensitive mutation or depletion results in loss of transcription of many, but not all, genes. The upstream activating sequence (UAS), which contains the activator binding sites, is the region that renders a gene yTAFII17 dependent. In conjunction with previous studies, our results reveal that different TAFIIs have remarkably distinct properties.
Histone-like TAFs are essential for transcription in vivo.	In yeast, the TBP-associated factors (TAFs) Taf17, Taf60, and Taf61(68) resemble histones H3, H4, and H2B, respectively. To analyze their roles in vivo, conditional alleles were isolated by mutagenizing their histone homology domains. Conditional alleles of TAF17 or TAF60 can be specifically suppressed by overexpression of any of the other histone-like TAFs. This and other genetic evidence supports the model of a histone octamer-like structure within TFIID. Shifting strains carrying the conditional TAF alleles to non-permissive conditions results in degradation of TFIID components and the rapid loss of mRNA production. Therefore, in contrast to previous studies in yeast that found only limited roles for TAFs in transcription, we find that the histone-like TAFs are generally required for in vivo transcription.
The histone H3-like TAF is broadly required for transcription in yeast.	In yeast cells, independent depletion of TAFs (130, 67, 40, and 19) found specifically in TFIID results in selective effects on transcription, including a common effect on his3 core promoter function. In contrast, depletion of TAF17, which is also present in the SAGA histone acetylase complex, causes a decrease in transcription of most genes. However, TAF17-depleted cells maintain Ace1-dependent activation, and they induce de novo activation by heat shock factor in a manner predominantly associated with the activator, not the core promoter. Thus, TAF17 is broadly, but not universally, required for transcription in yeast, TAF17 depletion and TAF130 depletion each disrupt TFIID integrity yet cause different transcriptional consequences, suggesting that the widespread influence of TAF17 might not be due solely to its function in TFIID.
yTAFII61 has a general role in RNA polymerase II transcription and is required by Gcn4p to recruit the SAGA coactivator complex.	We obtained a recessive insertion mutation in the gene encoding yeast TBP-associated factor yTAFII61/68 that impairs Gcn4p-independent and Gcn4p-activated HIS3 transcription. This mutation also reduces transcription of seven other class II genes, thus indicating a broad role for this yTAFII in RNA polymerase II transcription. The Gcn4p activation domain interacts with multiple components of the SAGA complex in cell extracts, including the yTAFII proteins associated with SAGA, but not with two yTAFIIs restricted to TFIID. The taf61-1 mutation impairs binding of Gcn4p to SAGA/yTAFII subunits but not to components of holoenzyme mediator. Our results provide strong evidence that recruitment of SAGA, in addition to holoenzyme, is crucial for activation by Gcn4p in vivo and that yTAFII61 plays a key role in this process.
Direct stimulatory effects of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) on nuclear RNA polymerase II activity and overall protein synthesis in immature rat Sertoli cells.	A large body of evidence support the existence of an intratesticular Insulin-like Growth Factor I (IGF-I) system that can be viewed as a positive regulator of testicular functions. IGF-I may act at the testis level as a paracrine and autocrine differentiating factor. In the present study the role of IGF-I on Sertoli cell protein synthesis at transcriptional level has been investigated by evaluating the effect of IGF-I on nuclear RNA polymerase II activity as well as on total protein synthesis. Sertoli cells isolated from midpubertal rats and cultured in the presence of physiological doses of IGF-I showed a significant increase in nuclear RNA polymerase II activity (+80%) which appears to be correlated with a 50% increase in overall protein synthesis and a 40% increase in Androgen Binding Protein (ABP) production. These data provide the first evidence for a conceivable role of IGF-I in the modulation of Sertoli cell development through a direct action at the transcriptional level resulting in augmented protein synthesis.
Promoter structure and transcriptional activation with chromatin templates assembled in vitro. A single Gal4-VP16 dimer binds to chromatin or to DNA with comparable affinity.	To gain a better understanding of the role of chromatin in the regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II, we examined the relation between promoter structure and the ability of Gal4-VP16 to function with chromatin templates assembled in vitro. First, to investigate whether there are synergistic interactions among multiple bound factors, we studied promoter constructions containing one or five Gal4 sites and found that a single recognition site is sufficient for Gal4-VP16 to bind to chromatin, to induce nucleosome rearrangement, and to activate transcription. Notably, we observed that Gal4-VP16 binds to a single site in chromatin with affinity comparable with that which it binds to naked DNA, even in the absence of ATP-dependent nucleosome remodeling activity. Second, to explore the relation between translational nucleosome positioning and transcriptional activation, we analyzed a series of promoter constructions in which nucleosomes were positioned by Gal4-VP16 at different locations relative to the RNA start site. These experiments revealed that the positioning of a nucleosome over the RNA start site is not an absolute barrier to transcriptional activation. Third, to determine the contribution of core promoter elements to transcriptional activation with chromatin templates, we tested the ability of Gal4-VP16 to activate transcription with TATA box- versus DPE-driven core promoters and found that the TATA box is not required to achieve transcriptional activation by Gal4-VP16 with chromatin templates. These results suggest that a single protomer of a strong activator is able to bind to chromatin, to induce nucleosome remodeling, and to activate transcription in conjunction with a broad range of chromatin structures and core promoter elements.
Evidence that P-TEFb alleviates the negative effect of DSIF on RNA polymerase II-dependent transcription in vitro.	Recently, a positive and a negative elongation factor, implicated in 5,6-dichloro-1-beta-D-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole (DRB) inhibition of transcription elongation, has been identified. P-TEFb is a positive transcription elongation factor and the DRB-sensitive kinase that phosphorylates the C-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II (Pol II). PITALRE, a member of the Cdc2 family of protein kinases, is the catalytic subunit of P-TEFb. DSIF is a human homolog of the yeast Spt4-Spt5 complex and renders elongation of transcription sensitive to DRB. DRB sensitivity-inducing factor (DSIF) binds to RNA Pol II and may directly regulate elongation. Here we show a functional interaction between P-TEFb and DSIF. The reduction of P-TEFb activity induced by either DRB, antibody against PITALRE, or immunodepletion resulted in a negative effect of DSIF on transcription. DSIF acts at an early phase of elongation, and the prior action of P-TEFb makes transcription resistant to DSIF. The state of phosphorylation of CTD determines the DSIF-RNA Pol II interaction, and may provide a direct link between P-TEFb and DSIF. Taken together, this study reveals a molecular basis for DRB action and suggests that P-TEFb stimulates elongation by alleviating the negative action of DSIF.
Upregulation of cyclin T1/CDK9 complexes during T cell activation.	Cyclin T1 has been identified recently as a regulatory subunit of CDK9 and as a component of the transcription elongation factor P-TEFb. Cyclin T1/CDK9 complexes phosphorylate the carboxy terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (RNAP II) in vitro. Here we report that the levels of cyclin T1 are dramatically upregulated by two independent signaling pathways triggered respectively by PMA and PHA in primary human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs). Activation of these two pathways in tandem is sufficient for PBLs to enter and progress through the cell cycle. However, the expression of cyclin T1 is not growth and/or cell cycle regulated in other cell types, indicating that regulation of cyclin T1 expression is dependent on tissue-specific signaling pathways. Upregulation of cyclin T1 in stimulated PBLs results in induction of the CTD kinase activity of the cyclin T1/CDK9 complex, which in turn correlates directly with phosphorylation of RNAP II in vivo, linking for the first time activation of the cyclin T1/ CDK9 pair with phosphorylation of RNAP II in vivo. In addition, we report here that endogenous CDK9 and cyclin T1 complexes associate with HIV-1 generated Tat in relevant cells and under physiological conditions (HIV-1 infected T cells). This, together with our results showing that HIV-1 replication in stimulated PBLs correlates with the levels of cyclin T1 protein and associated CTD kinase activity, suggests that the cyclin T1/CDK9 pair is one of the HIV-1 required host cellular cofactors generated during T cell activation.
