ATP requirements and small interfering RNA structure in the RNA interference pathway.	We examined the role of ATP in the RNA interference (RNAi) pathway. Our data reveal two ATP-dependent steps and suggest that the RNAi reaction comprises at least four sequential steps: ATP-dependent processing of double-stranded RNA into small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), incorporation of siRNAs into an inactive approximately 360 kDa protein/RNA complex, ATP-dependent unwinding of the siRNA duplex to generate an active complex, and ATP-independent recognition and cleavage of the RNA target. Furthermore, ATP is used to maintain 5' phosphates on siRNAs. A 5' phosphate on the target-complementary strand of the siRNA duplex is required for siRNA function, suggesting that cells check the authenticity of siRNAs and license only bona fide siRNAs to direct target RNA destruction.
Expression of telomerase activity, human telomerase RNA, and telomerase reverse transcriptase in gastric adenocarcinomas.	Telomerase is an RNA-dependent DNA polymerase that synthesizes TTAGGG telomeric DNA onto chromosome ends to compensate for sequence loss during DNA replication. It has been detected in 85-90% of all primary human cancers, implicating that the telomerase seems to be reactivated in tumors and that such activity may play a role in the tumorigenic process. The purpose of this study was to evaluate telomerase activity, human telomerase RNA (hTR), and telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) in stomach cancer and to determine their potential relationships to clinicopathologic parameters. Frozen and corresponding methacarn-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue samples were obtained from 51 patients with gastric adenocarcinoma and analyzed for telomerase activity by using a TRAPeze ELISA kit. Tissue sections of all the samples were further investigated for hTR and TERT by in situ hybridization and a sensitive immunohistochemical technique, respectively. Telomerase activity was detected in 37 (73%) tumors. Telomerase positivity from methacarn-fixed paraffin blocks was found to be 35% of that from frozen tissues. hTR was overexpressed in 46 (90%) samples: 33/37 (89%) with and 13/14 (93%) without telomerase activation. Expression of TERT was demonstrated in 40 (78%) cases: 30/37 (81%) with and 10/14 (71%) without telomerase. Telomerase activity correlated well with depth of invasion (P =.037) and tumor differentiation (P =.022), whereas hTR significantly correlated with nodal metastasis (P=.047) and tumor size (P=.023). These data suggest that reactivated telomerase may play a significant role in the tumorigenesis of gastric cancer and may reflect, along with enhanced hTR, the malignant potential of the tumor. It is noteworthy that methacarn-fixed tissue cannot as yet substitute for the frozen section in the TRAP assay.
Sonographic findings in Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome related to H19 hypermethylation.	Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS) is an overgrowth syndrome associated with congenital malformations and tumour predisposition. BWS results from variable mutations or epigenetic modifications of imprinted genes in the 11p15 chromosomal region. We present a fetus with mild general overgrowth and bilateral enlarged echogenic kidneys with loss of the corticomedullary differentiation in which prenatal diagnosis of BWS was suspected. The rest of the fetal anatomy and the amniotic fluid volume appeared normal. After termination of the pregnancy, molecular analysis confirmed the diagnosis of BWS by showing an isolated hypermethylation of the H19 gene.
Genomic imprinting: CTCF protects the boundaries.	The DNA-binding protein CTCF, which acts as a chromatin 'insulator', regulates imprinting of the mammalian Igf2 and H19 genes in a methylation-sensitive manner. It has now been shown that CTCF is also required for protection against de novo methylation of the differentially methylated domain of H19 in the female germline.
Engineered riboregulators enable post-transcriptional control of gene expression.	Recent studies have demonstrated the important enzymatic, structural and regulatory roles of RNA in the cell. Here we present a post-transcriptional regulation system in Escherichia coli that uses RNA to both silence and activate gene expression. We inserted a complementary cis sequence directly upstream of the ribosome binding site in a target gene. Upon transcription, this cis-repressive sequence causes a stem-loop structure to form at the 5'-untranslated region of the mRNA. The stem-loop structure interferes with ribosome binding, silencing gene expression. A small noncoding RNA that is expressed in trans targets the cis-repressed RNA with high specificity, causing an alteration in the stem-loop structure that activates expression. Such engineered riboregulators may lend insight into mechanistic actions of endogenous RNA-based processes and could serve as scalable components of biological networks, able to function with any promoter or gene to directly control gene expression.
A chromosomal memory triggered by Xist regulates histone methylation in X inactivation.	We have elucidated the kinetics of histone methylation during X inactivation using an inducible Xist expression system in mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. Previous reports showed that the ability of Xist to trigger silencing is restricted to an early window in ES cell differentiation. Here we show that this window is also important for establishing methylation patterns on the potential inactive X chromosome. By immunofluorescence and chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments we show that histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27m3) and H4 lysine 20 monomethylation (H4K20m1) are associated with Xist expression in undifferentiated ES cells and mark the initiation of X inactivation. Both marks depend on Xist RNA localisation but are independent of silencing. Induction of Xist expression after the initiation window leads to a markedly reduced ability to induce H3K27m3, whereas expression before the restrictive time point allows efficient H3K27m3 establishment. Our data show that Xist expression early in ES cell differentiation establishes a chromosomal memory, which is maintained in the absence of silencing. One consequence of this memory is the ability to introduce H3K27m3 efficiently after the restrictive time point on the chromosome that has expressed Xist early. Our results suggest that this silencing-independent chromosomal memory has important implications for the maintenance of X inactivation, where previously self-perpetuating heterochromatin structures were viewed as the principal form of memory.
Epigenetic status of human embryonic stem cells.	We examined the allele-specific expression of six imprinted genes and the methylation profiles of three imprinting control regions to assess the epigenetic status of human embryonic stem cells. We identified generally monoallelic gene expression and normal methylation patterns. During prolonged passage, one cell line became biallelic with respect to H19, but without loss of the gametic methylation imprint. These data argue for a substantial degree of epigenetic stability in human embryonic stem cells.
The XIST noncoding RNA functions independently of BRCA1 in X inactivation.	Females with germline mutations in BRCA1 are predisposed to develop breast and ovarian cancers. A previous report indicated that BRCA1 colocalizes with and is necessary for the correct localization of XIST, a noncoding RNA that coats the inactive X chromosome (Xi) to mediate formation of facultative heterochromatin. A model emerged from this study suggesting that loss of BRCA1 in female cells could reactivate genes on the Xi through loss of the XIST RNA. However, our independent studies of BRCA1 and XIST RNA revealed little evidence to support this model. We report that BRCA1 is not enriched on XIST RNA-coated chromatin of the Xi. Neither mutation nor depletion of BRCA1 causes significant changes in XIST RNA localization or X-linked gene expression. Together, these results do not support a role for BRCA1 in promoting XIST RNA localization to the Xi or regulating XIST-dependent functions in maintaining the stability of facultative heterochromatin.
Further evidence for BRCA1 communication with the inactive X chromosome.	BRCA1, a breast and ovarian cancer-suppressor gene, exerts tumor-suppressing functions that appear to be associated, at least in part, with its DNA repair, checkpoint, and mitotic regulatory activities. Earlier work from our laboratory also suggested an ability of BRCA1 to communicate with the inactive X chromosome (Xi) in female somatic cells (Ganesan et al., 2002). Xiao et al. (2007) (this issue of Cell) have challenged this conclusion. Here we discuss recently published data from our laboratory and others and present new results that, together, provide further support for a role of BRCA1 in the regulation of XIST concentration on Xi in somatic cells.
Small RNAs controlling outer membrane porins.	Gene regulation by small non-coding RNAs has been recognized as an important post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism for several years. In Gram-negative bacteria such as Escherichia coli and Salmonella, these RNAs control stress response and translation of outer membrane proteins and therefore are key regulators of environmental stress. Recent work has revealed an intimate interplay between small RNA regulation of outer membrane proteins and the stress-induced sigmaE-signalling system, which has an essential role in the maintenance of the integrity of the outer membrane.
Organization of cytokeratin cytoskeleton and germ plasm in the vegetal cortex of Xenopus laevis oocytes depends on coding and non-coding RNAs: three-dimensional and ultrastructural analysis.	Recent studies discovered a novel structural role of RNA in maintaining the integrity of the mitotic spindle and cellular cytoskeleton. In Xenopus laevis, non-coding Xlsirts and coding VegT RNAs play a structural role in anchoring localized RNAs, maintaining the organization of the cytokeratin cytoskeleton and germinal granules in the oocyte vegetal cortex and in subsequent development of the germline in the embryo. We studied the ultrastructural effects of antisense oligonucleotide driven ablation of Xlsirts and VegT RNAs on the organization of the cytokeratin, germ plasm and other components of the vegetal cortex. We developed a novel method to immunolabel and visualize cytokeratin at the electron microscopy level, which allowed us to reconstruct the ultrastructural organization of the cytokeratin network relative to the components of the vegetal cortex in Xenopus oocytes. The removal of Xlsirts and VegT RNAs not only disrupts the cytokeratin cytoskeleton but also has a profound transcript-specific effect on the anchoring and distribution of germ plasm islands and their germinal granules and the arrangement of yolk platelets within the vegetal cortex. We suggest that the cytokeratin cytoskeleton plays a role in anchoring of germ plasm islands within the vegetal cortex and germinal granules within the germ plasm islands.
A noncoding RNA in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is an RNase P substrate.	Ribonuclease P (RNase P) is involved in regulation of noncoding RNA (ncRNA) expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A hidden-in-reading-frame antisense-1 (HRA1) RNA in S. cerevisiae, which belongs to a class of ncRNAs located in the antisense strand to verified protein coding regions, was cloned for further use in RNase P assays. Escherichia coli RNase P assays in vitro of HRA1 RNA show two cleavage sites, one major and one minor in terms of rates. The same result was observed with a partially purified S. cerevisiae RNase P activity, both at 30 degrees C and 37 degrees C. These latter cells are normally grown at 30 degrees C. Predictions of the secondary structure of HRA1 RNA in silico show the cleavage sites are canonical RNase P recognition sites. A relatively small amount of endogenous HRA1 RNA was identified by RT-PCR in yeast cells. The endogenous HRA1 RNA is increased in amount in strains that are deficient in RNase P activity. A deletion of 10 nucleotides in the HRA1 gene that does not overlap with the gene coding for a protein (DRS2) in the sense strand shows no defective growth in galactose or glucose. These data indicate that HRA1 RNA is a substrate for RNase P and does not appear as a direct consequence of separate regulatory effects of the enzyme on ncRNAs.
6S RNA: a small RNA regulator of transcription.	Appreciation for the prevalence and diversity of noncoding, small RNAs (sRNAs) has grown enormously in the past decade. A major role for sRNAs in all organisms is to regulate gene expression, often at the level of mRNA translation or stability. However, a few sRNAs have been shown to function by regulating transcription. The bacterial 6S RNA was the first sRNA shown to inhibit transcription by binding directly to the housekeeping holoenzyme form of RNA polymerase (i.e. sigma70-RNA polymerase in E. coli). It resides within the active site of RNA polymerase, blocks access to promoter DNA and, surprisingly, is used as a template for RNA synthesis. 6S RNA regulation of transcription leads to altered cell survival, perhaps by redirecting resource utilization under nutrient-limiting conditions.
Small noncoding RNAs controlling pathogenesis.	Infectious diseases are a leading cause of mortality worldwide. A major challenge in achieving their eradication is a better understanding of bacterial pathogenesis processes. The recent discovery of small noncoding RNAs (sRNAs) as modulators of gene expression in response to environmental cues has brought a new insight into bacterial regulation. sRNAs coordinate complex networks of stress adaptation and virulence gene expression. sRNAs generally ensure such a regulation by pairing to mRNAs of effector and/or regulatory genes, or by binding to proteins. An updated view on bacterial models responsible for important infections illustrates the key role of sRNAs in the control of pathogenesis.
Physiological consequences of small RNA-mediated regulation of glucose-phosphate stress.	Accumulation of non-metabolizable glucose-phosphate in Escherichia coli is growth inhibitory and induces a specific stress response. This is sensed and coordinated by a transcription factor SgrR that in turn activates expression of the primary effector of the stress response, a small regulatory RNA, SgrS. This RNA negatively regulates the translation and stability of the ptsG mRNA, which encodes the major glucose transporter of E. coli. The effect of SgrS on ptsG mRNA occurs through a base-pairing mechanism facilitated by the RNA chaperone Hfq. Other host factors required for the regulation by SgrS include the endonuclease RNase E and components of the RNA degradosome, particularly enolase, a glycolytic enzyme whose role in RNA degradation is currently not understood. There are many unanswered questions regarding the physiology of glucose-phosphate stress, including the cellular signals and targets involved. However, it is clear that the small RNA SgrS is required for adaptation to stress. The current model is that SgrS promotes recovery by stopping the synthesis of glucose transport proteins, which in turn limits the accumulation of toxic sugar-phosphates.
Small RNAs controlling iron metabolism.	Iron is one of the most important metals in the metabolism of many organisms, including bacteria, in which it serves as a cofactor in multiple enzymatic reactions. Most of the earlier research on iron regulation in bacteria has focused on the transcriptional regulator Fur and its effect on the many genes involved in iron uptake. More recent work demonstrates the essential role of a small regulatory RNA, RyhB, in iron metabolism. RyhB downregulates a large number of transcripts encoding iron-using proteins, resulting in redistribution of the intracellular iron. Recent advances have been made in the understanding of the small RNAs that modulate the intracellular iron usage in different organisms such as, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Vibrio cholerae, Shigella flexneri and cyanobacteria.
Mechanism of RNA silencing by Hfq-binding small RNAs.	The stress-induced small RNAs SgrS and RyhB in Escherichia coli form a specific ribonucleoprotein complex with RNAse E and Hfq resulting in translation inhibition, RNAse E-dependent degradation of target mRNAs. Translation inhibition is the primary event for gene silencing and degradation of these small RNAs is coupled with the degradation of target mRNAs. The crucial base-pairs for action of SgrS are confined to the 6 nt region overlapping the Shine-Dalgarno sequence of the target mRNA. Hfq accelerates the rate of duplex formation between SgrS and the target mRNA. Membrane localization of target mRNA contributes to efficient SgrS action by competing with ribosome loading.
The role of small RNAs in quorum sensing.	Quorum sensing is a form of cell-cell signaling in bacteria that provides information regarding population density, species composition, and environmental and metabolic signals. It enables community-wide coordination of gene expression, and presumably benefits group behaviors. Multiple regulatory small RNAs (sRNAs) act centrally in quorum sensing, integrating signals with other environmental stimuli, to produce an appropriate output.
The regulation of genes and genomes by small RNAs.	A recent Keystone Symposium on 'MicroRNAs and siRNAs: Biological Functions and Mechanisms' was organized by David Bartel and Shiv Grewal (and was held in conjunction with 'RNAi for Target Validation and as a Therapeutic', organized by Stephen Friend and John Maraganore). The 'MicroRNAs and siRNAs' meeting brought together scientists working on diverse biological aspects of small regulatory RNAs, including microRNAs, small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs and rasiRNAs). Among the themes discussed were the diversity of small regulatory RNAs and their developmental functions, their biogenesis, the identification of their regulatory targets, their mechanisms of action, and their roles in the elaboration of multicellular complexity.
Pathogenic chaperone-like RNA induces congophilic aggregates and facilitates neurodegeneration in Drosophila.	Protein aggregation is a hallmark of many neurodegenerative diseases. RNA chaperones have been suggested to play a role in protein misfolding and aggregation. Noncoding, highly structured RNA recently has been demonstrated to facilitate transformation of recombinant and cellular prion protein into proteinase K-resistant, congophilic, insoluble aggregates and to generate cytotoxic oligomers in vitro. Transgenic Drosophila melanogaster strains were developed to express highly structured RNA under control of a heat shock promoter. Expression of a specific construct strongly perturbed fly behavior, caused significant decline in learning and memory retention of adult males, and was coincident with the formation of intracellular congophilic aggregates in the brain and other tissues of adult and larval stages. Additionally, neuronal cell pathology of adult flies was similar to that observed in human Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. This novel model demonstrates that expression of a specific highly structured RNA alone is sufficient to trigger neurodegeneration, possibly through chaperone-like facilitation of protein misfolding and aggregation.
Long noncoding RNAs in neuronal-glial fate specification and oligodendrocyte lineage maturation.	Long non-protein-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) are emerging as important regulators of cellular differentiation and are widely expressed in the brain.
The Trithorax group protein Ash2l and Saf-A are recruited to the inactive X chromosome at the onset of stable X inactivation.	Mammals compensate X chromosome gene dosage between the sexes by silencing of one of the two female X chromosomes. X inactivation is initiated in the early embryo and requires the non-coding Xist RNA, which encompasses the inactive X chromosome (Xi) and triggers its silencing. In differentiated cells, several factors including the histone variant macroH2A and the scaffold attachment factor SAF-A are recruited to the Xi and maintain its repression. Consequently, in female somatic cells the Xi remains stably silenced independently of Xist. Here, we identify the Trithorax group protein Ash2l as a novel component of the Xi. Ash2l is recruited by Xist concomitantly with Saf-A and macroH2A at the transition to Xi maintenance. Recruitment of these factors characterizes a developmental transition point for the chromatin composition of the Xi. Surprisingly, expression of a mutant Xist RNA that does not cause gene repression can trigger recruitment of Ash2l, Saf-A and macroH2A to the X chromosome, and can cause chromosome-wide histone H4 hypoacetylation. This suggests that a chromatin configuration is established on non-genic chromatin on the Xi by Xist to provide a repressive compartment that could be used for maintaining gene silencing. Gene silencing is mechanistically separable from the formation of this repressive compartment and, thus, requires additional pathways. This observation highlights a crucial role for spatial organization of chromatin changes in the maintenance of X inactivation.
The epigenetic landscape of mammary gland development and functional differentiation.	Most of the development and functional differentiation in the mammary gland occur after birth. Epigenetics is defined as the stable alterations in gene expression potential that arise during development and proliferation. Epigenetic changes are mediated at the biochemical level by the chromatin conformation initiated by DNA methylation, histone variants, post-translational modifications of histones, non-histone chromatin proteins, and non-coding RNAs. Epigenetics plays a key role in development. However, very little is known about its role in the developing mammary gland or how it might integrate the many signalling pathways involved in mammary gland development and function that have been discovered during the past few decades. An inverse relationship between marks of closed (DNA methylation) or open chromatin (DnaseI hypersensitivity, certain histone modifications) and milk protein gene expression has been documented. Recent studies have shown that during development and functional differentiation, both global and local chromatin changes occur. Locally, chromatin at distal regulatory elements and promoters of milk protein genes gains a more open conformation. Furthermore, changes occur both in looping between regulatory elements and attachment to nuclear matrix. These changes are induced by developmental signals and environmental conditions. Additionally, distinct epigenetic patterns have been identified in mammary gland stem and progenitor cell sub-populations. Together, these findings suggest that epigenetics plays a role in mammary development and function. With the new tools for epigenomics developed in recent years, we now can begin to establish a framework for the role of epigenetics in mammary gland development and disease.
Primal RNAs: The end of the beginning?	The amplification of small RNAs and the assembly of heterochromatin are mutually dependent processes in fission yeast. But which comes first? Halic and Moazed (2010) propose that primal small RNAs initiate the amplification of small interfering RNAs that drive heterochromatin formation and chromatin silencing.
Complexity of polycomb group function: diverse mechanisms of target specificity.	Epigenetic regulation of gene expression has become relevant to nearly all areas of biomedical research. The emergence of technologies that allow for examination of the epigenome combined with identification of key protein complexes that mediate the myriad chromatin modifications that occur have greatly enhanced the versatility and efficacy of tools with which to study normal development and disease states. The evolutionarily conserved polycomb group genes (PcG) have been identified as a predominant mechanism by which gene silencing occurs during development, differentiation, and disease. While molecular events that target PcG complexes have been well defined in some non-vertebrate models, the details of locus specificity and functional diversity of mammalian PcG proteins have not yet unresolved. Here we discuss recent findings that offer novel mechanistic events and add complexity to our understanding of PcG function in vertebrates.
Recent advances in X-chromosome inactivation.	X-chromosome inactivation is a paradigmatic epigenetic phenomenon that results in the mitotically heritable transcriptional inactivation of one X-chromosome in female mammals, thereby equalizing X-linked gene dosage between the sexes. The epigenetic factors and mechanisms that execute X-inactivation overlap with those that regulate embryonic development and disease progression, thus offering a window into the epigenetic processes that regulate development and disease. Here I summarize some recent developments as well as open questions in X-inactivation research.
XIST RNA and architecture of the inactive X chromosome: implications for the repeat genome.	XIST RNA paints and induces silencing of one X chromosome in mammalian female cells, providing a powerful model to investigate long-range chromosomal regulation. This chapter focuses on events downstream from the spread of XIST RNA across the interphase chromosome, to consider how this large noncoding RNA interacts with and silences a whole chromosome. Several lines of evidence are summarized that point to the involvement of repeat sequences in different aspects of the X-inactivation process. Although the "repeat genome" comprises close to half of the human genome, the potential for abundant repeats to contribute to genome regulation has been largely overlooked and may be underestimated. X inactivation has the potential to reveal roles of interspersed and other repeats in the genome. For example, evidence indicates that XIST RNA acts at the architectural level of the whole chromosome to induce formation of a silent core enriched for nongenic and repetitive (Cot-1) DNA, which corresponds to the DAPI-dense Barr body. Expression of repeat RNAs may contribute to chromosome remodeling, and evidence suggests that other types of repeat elements may be involved in escape from X inactivation. Despite great progress in decoding the rest of the genome, we suggest that the repeat genome may contain meaningful but complex language that remains to be better studied and understood.
Transcription factories and nuclear organization of the genome.	The dynamic compartmental organization of the transcriptional machinery in mammalian nuclei places particular constraints on the spatial organization of the genome. The clustering of active RNA polymerase I transcription units from several chromosomes at nucleoli is probably the best-characterized and universally accepted example. RNA polymerase II localization in mammalian nuclei occurs in distinct concentrated foci that are several-fold fewer in number compared to the number of active genes and transcription units. Individual transcribed genes cluster at these shared transcription factories in a nonrandom manner, preferentially associating with heterologous, coregulated genes. We suggest that the three-dimensional (3D) conformation and relative arrangement of chromosomes in the nucleus has a major role in delivering tissue-specific gene-expression programs.
Rrp6, Rrp47 and cofactors of the nuclear exosome.	This chapter reviews the present state of knowledge on the activity of enzymes that function with the RNA exosome in the nucleus. In this compartment, the exosome interacts physically and functionally with the exoribonuclease Rrp6 and several cofactors, most prominently Rrp47 and the TRAMP complex. These interactions decide the fate of RNA precursors from transcription through the formation of mature ribonucleoprotein particles (RNPs) and the export of the RNPs to the cytoplasm. The nuclear exosome catalyzes the formation of the mature 3' ends of many of these RNAs, but in other cases degrades the RNAs to mononucleotides. Cofactors such as Mpp6, TRAMP and the Nrd1/Nab3 complex play important roles in determining the outcome of the interaction of RNPs with the nuclear exosome. The details that govern the specificity of these decisions remain a rich source for future investigation.
The exosome and heterochromatin: multilevel regulation of gene silencing.	Heterochromatic silencing is important for repressing gene expression, protecting cells against viral invasion, maintaining DNA integrity and for proper chromosome segregation. Recently, it has become apparent that expression of eukaryotic genomes is far more complex than had previously been anticipated. Strikingly, it has emerged that most of the genome is transcribed including intergenic regions and heterochromatin, calling for us to re-address the question of how gene silencing is regulated and re-evaluate the concept of heterochromatic regions of the genome being transcriptionally inactive. Although heterochromatic silencing can be regulated at the transcriptional level, RNA degrading activities supplied either by the exosome complex or RNAi also significantly contribute to this process. The exosome also regulates noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) involved in the establishment of heterochromatin, further underscoring its role as the major cellular machinery involved in RNA processing and turn-over. This multilevel control of the transcriptome may be utilized to ensure greater accuracy of gene expression and allow distinction between functional transcripts and background noise. In this chapter, we will discuss the regulation of gene silencing across species, with special emphasis on the exosome's contribution to the process. We will also discuss the links between transcriptional and posttranscriptional mechanisms for gene silencing and their impact on the regulation of eukaryotic transcriptomes.
RNA mimics of green fluorescent protein.	Green fluorescent protein (GFP) and its derivatives have transformed the use and analysis of proteins for diverse applications. Like proteins, RNA has complex roles in cellular function and is increasingly used for various applications, but a comparable approach for fluorescently tagging RNA is lacking. Here, we describe the generation of RNA aptamers that bind fluorophores resembling the fluorophore in GFP. These RNA-fluorophore complexes create a palette that spans the visible spectrum. An RNA-fluorophore complex, termed Spinach, resembles enhanced GFP and emits a green fluorescence comparable in brightness with fluorescent proteins. Spinach is markedly resistant to photobleaching, and Spinach fusion RNAs can be imaged in living cells. These RNA mimics of GFP provide an approach for genetic encoding of fluorescent RNAs.
Noncoding RNAs in molecular characterization of cancer preneoplasia.	Molecular biomarkers are widely recognized as having tremendous utility in cancer early detection, prediction, and prevention. Huge efforts have been put into searching of various molecular biomarkers for these purposes, yet there are few molecular biomarkers that have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for clinical use. Discovery of novel molecular biomarkers is still urgently needed to create biological insights into early events of carcinogenesis and to predict the aggressiveness of early cancer. Noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) are relatively unexplored molecules identified only one decade ago. With research on the basic biology and mechanisms of ncRNAs, they have rapidly been linked to etiology of diseases, particularly cancer. In this chapter, we will summarize ncRNAs, particularly microRNAs (miRNAs), a type of ncRNAs, as a new frontier for the discovery of cancer biomarkers in preneoplastic lesions and their usefulness as markers for the risk assessment, early detection, and diagnosis of cancer.
Systems pharmacology, pharmacogenetics, and clinical trial design in network medicine.	The rapidly growing disciplines of systems biology and network science are now poised to meet the fields of clinical medicine and pharmacology. Principles of systems pharmacology can be applied to drug design and, ultimately, testing in human clinical trials. Rather than focusing exclusively on single drug targets, systems pharmacology examines the holistic response of a phenotype-dependent pathway or pathways to drug perturbation. Knowledge of individual pharmacogenetic profiles further modulates the responses to these drug perturbations, moving the field toward more individualized ('personalized') drug development. The speed with which the information required to assess these system responses and their genomic underpinnings is changing and the importance of identifying the optimal drug or drug combinations for maximal benefit and minimal risk require that clinical trial design strategies be adaptable. In this paper, we review the tenets of adaptive clinical trial design as they may apply to an era of expanding knowledge of systems pharmacology and pharmacogenomics, and clinical trail design in network medicine.
Comprehensive analysis of mRNA methylation reveals enrichment in 3' UTRs and near stop codons.	Methylation of the N(6) position of adenosine (m(6)A) is a posttranscriptional modification of RNA with poorly understood prevalence and physiological relevance. The recent discovery that FTO, an obesity risk gene, encodes an m(6)A demethylase implicates m(6)A as an important regulator of physiological processes. Here, we present a method for transcriptome-wide m(6)A localization, which combines m(6)A-specific methylated RNA immunoprecipitation with next-generation sequencing (MeRIP-Seq). We use this method to identify mRNAs of 7,676 mammalian genes that contain m(6)A, indicating that m(6)A is a common base modification of mRNA. The m(6)A modification exhibits tissue-specific regulation and is markedly increased throughout brain development. We find that m(6)A sites are enriched near stop codons and in 3' UTRs, and we uncover an association between m(6)A residues and microRNA-binding sites within 3' UTRs. These findings provide a resource for identifying transcripts that are substrates for adenosine methylation and reveal insights into the epigenetic regulation of the mammalian transcriptome.
1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 suppresses telomerase expression and human cancer growth through microRNA-498.	Telomerase is an essential enzyme that counteracts the telomere attrition accompanying DNA replication during cell division. Regulation of the promoter activity of the gene encoding its catalytic subunit, the telomerase reverse transcriptase, is established as the dominant mechanism conferring the high telomerase activity in proliferating cells, such as embryonic stem and cancer cells. This study reveals a new mechanism of telomerase regulation through non-coding small RNA by showing that microRNA-498 (miR-498) induced by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)(2)D(3)) decreases the mRNA expression of the human telomerase reverse transcriptase. MiR-498 was first identified in a microarray analysis as the most induced microRNA by 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) in ovarian cancer cells and subsequently validated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction assays in multiple human cancer types. A functional vitamin D response element was defined in the 5-prime regulatory region of the miR-498 genome, which is occupied by the vitamin D receptor and its coactivators. Further studies showed that miR-498 targeted the 3-prime untranslated region of human telomerase reverse transcriptase mRNA and decreased its expression. The levels of miR-498 expression were decreased in malignant human ovarian tumors as well as human ovarian cancer cell lines. The ability of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) to decrease human telomerase reverse transcriptase mRNA and to suppress ovarian cancer growth was compromised when miR-498 was depleted using the sponges in cell lines and mouse tumor models. Taken together, our studies define a novel mechanism of telomerase regulation by small non-coding RNAs and identify miR-498 as an important mediator for the anti-tumor activity of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3).
Chromosomally-retained RNA mediates homologous pairing.	Pairing and recombination of homologous chromosomes are essential for ensuring correct segregation of chromosomes in meiosis. In S. pombe, chromosomes are first bundled at the telomeres (forming a telomere bouquet) and then aligned by oscillatory movement of the elongated "horsetail" nucleus. Telomere clustering and subsequent chromosome alignment promote pairing of homologous chromosomes. However, this telomere-bundled alignment of chromosomes cannot be responsible for the specificity of chromosome pairing. Thus, there must be some mechanism to facilitate recognition of homologous partners after telomere clustering. Recent studies in S. pombe have shown that RNA transcripts retained on the chromosome, or RNA bodies, may play a role in recognition of homologous chromosomes for pairing. Acting as fiducial markers of homologous loci they would abrogate the need for direct DNA sequence homology searching.
A tumor surveillance model: a non-coding RNA senses neoplastic cells and its protein partner signals cell death.	nc886 (= pre-miR-886 or vtRNA2-1) is a non-coding RNA that has been recently identified as a natural repressor for the activity of PKR (Protein Kinase R). The suppression of nc886 activates PKR and thereby provokes a cell death pathway. When combined with the fact that nc886 is suppressed in a wide range of cancer cells, the  nc886-PKR relationship suggests a tumor surveillance model. When neoplastic cells develop and nc886 decreases therein, PKR is released from nc886 and becomes the active phosphorylated form, which initiates an apoptotic cascade to eliminate those cells. The nc886-PKR pathway is distinct from conventional mechanisms, such as the immune surveillance hypothesis or intrinsic mechanisms that check/proofread the genomic integrity, and thus represents a novel example of tumor surveillance.
Epigenetic layers and players underlying neurodevelopment.	Epigenetic mechanisms convey information above and beyond the sequence of DNA, so it is predicted that they are critical in the complex regulation of brain development and explain the long-lived effects of environmental cues on pre- and early post-natal brain development. Neurons have a complex epigenetic landscape that changes dynamically with transcriptional activity in early life. Here, we summarize progress in our understanding of the discrete layers of the dynamic methylome, chromatin proteome, noncoding RNAs, chromatin loops, and long-range interactions in neuronal development and maturation. Many neurodevelopmental disorders have genetic alterations in these epigenetic modifications or regulators, and these human genetics lessons have demonstrated the importance of these epigenetic players and the epigenetic layers that transcriptional events lay down in the early brain. 
Chromatin-bound RNA and the neurobiology of psychiatric disease.	A large, and still rapidly expanding literature on epigenetic regulation in the nervous system has provided fundamental insights into the dynamic regulation of DNA methylation and post-translational histone modifications in the context of neuronal plasticity in health and disease. Remarkably, however, very little is known about the potential role of chromatin-bound RNAs, including many long non-coding transcripts and various types of small RNAs. Here, we provide an overview on RNA-mediated regulation of chromatin structure and function, with focus on histone lysine methylation and psychiatric disease. Examples of recently discovered chromatin-bound long non-coding RNAs important for neuronal health and function include the brain-derived neurotrophic factor antisense transcript (Bdnf-AS) which regulates expression of the corresponding sense transcript, and LOC389023 which is associated with human-specific histone methylation signatures at the chromosome 2q14.1 neurodevelopmental risk locus by regulating expression of DPP10, an auxillary subunit for voltage-gated K(+) channels. We predict that the exploration of chromatin-bound RNA will significantly advance our current knowledge base in neuroepigenetics and biological psychiatry. 
Interplay of chromatin modifications and non-coding RNAs in the heart.	Precisely regulated patterns of gene expression are dependent on the binding of transcription factors and chromatin-associated determinants referred to as co-activators and co-repressors. These regulatory components function with the core transcriptional machinery to serve in critical activities to alter chromatin modification and regulate gene expression. While we are beginning to understand that cell-type specific patterns of gene expression are necessary to achieve selective cardiovascular developmental programs, we still do not know the molecular machineries that localize these determinants in the heart. With clear implications for the epigenetic control of gene expression signatures, the ENCODE (Encyclopedia of DNA Elements) Project Consortium determined that about 90% of the human genome is transcribed while only 1-2% of transcripts encode proteins. Emerging evidence suggests that non-coding RNA (ncRNA) serves as a signal for decoding chromatin modifications and provides a potential molecular basis for cell type-specific and promoter-specific patterns of gene expression. The discovery of the histone methyltransferase enzyme EZH2 in the regulation of gene expression patterns implicated in cardiac hypertrophy suggests a novel role for chromatin-associated ncRNAs and is the focus of this article. 
Molecular mechanisms of homologous chromosome pairing and segregation in plants.	In most eukaryotic species, three basic steps of pairing, recombination and synapsis occur during prophase of meiosis I. Homologous chromosomal pairing and recombination are essential for accurate segregation of chromosomes. In contrast to the well-studied processes such as recombination and synapsis, many aspects of chromosome pairing are still obscure. Recent progress in several species indicates that the telomere bouquet formation can facilitate homologous chromosome pairing by bringing chromosome ends into close proximity, but the sole presence of telomere clustering is not sufficient for recognizing homologous pairs. On the other hand, accurate segregation of the genetic material from parent to offspring during meiosis is dependent on the segregation of homologs in the reductional meiotic division (MI) with sister kinetochores exhibiting mono-orientation from the same pole, and the segregation of sister chromatids during the equational meiotic division (MII) with kinetochores showing bi-orientation from the two poles. The underlying mechanism of orientation and segregation is still unclear. Here we focus on recent studies in plants and other species that provide insight into how chromosomes find their partners and mechanisms mediating chromosomal segregation. 
An updated review of gastric cancer in the next-generation sequencing era: insights from bench to bedside and vice versa.	Gastric cancer (GC) is one of the most common malignancies and remains the second leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. There is an increasing understanding of the roles that genetic and epigenetic alterations play in GCs. Recent studies using next-generation sequencing (NGS) have revealed a number of potential cancer-driving genes in GC. Whole-exome sequencing of GC has identified recurrent somatic mutations in the chromatin remodeling gene ARID1A and alterations in the cell adhesion gene FAT4, a member of the cadherin gene family. Mutations in chromatin remodeling genes (ARID1A, MLL3 and MLL) have been found in 47% of GCs. Whole-genome sequencing and whole-transcriptome sequencing analyses have also discovered novel alterations in GC. Recent studies of cancer epigenetics have revealed widespread alterations in genes involved in the epigenetic machinery, such as DNA methylation, histone modifications, nucleosome positioning, noncoding RNAs and microRNAs. Recent advances in molecular research on GC have resulted in the introduction of new diagnostic and therapeutic strategies into clinical settings. The anti-human epidermal growth receptor 2 (HER2) antibody trastuzumab has led to an era of personalized therapy in GC. In addition, ramucirumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR)-2, is the first biological treatment that showed survival benefits as a single-agent therapy in patients with advanced GC who progressed after first-line chemotherapy. Using NGS to systematically identify gene alterations in GC is a promising approach with remarkable potential for investigating the pathogenesis of GC and identifying novel therapeutic targets, as well as useful biomarkers. In this review, we will summarize the recent advances in the understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of GC, focusing on the potential use of these genetic and epigenetic alterations as diagnostic biomarkers and novel therapeutic targets. 
Transcriptome complexity in cardiac development and diseases--an expanding universe between genome and phenome.	With the advancement of transcriptome profiling by micro-arrays and high-throughput RNA-sequencing, transcriptome complexity and its dynamics are revealed at different levels in cardiovascular development and diseases. In this review, we will highlight the recent progress in our knowledge of cardiovascular transcriptome complexity contributed by RNA splicing, RNA editing and noncoding RNAs. The emerging importance of many of these previously under-explored aspects of gene regulation in cardiovascular development and pathology will be discussed.
