A prototype stable RNA identification cassette for monitoring plasmids of genetically engineered microorganisms.	A prototype stable RNA identification cassette for monitoring genetically engineered plasmids carried by strains of Escherichia coli has been developed. The cassette consists of a Vibrio proteolyticus 5S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene surrounded by promoters and terminators from the rrnB operon of Escherischia coli. The identifier RNA is expressed and successfully processed so that approximately 30% of the 5S rRNA isolated from either whole cells or 70S ribosomes is of the V. proteolyticus type. Cells carrying the identifier are readily detectable by hybridization. Accurate measurements show that the identification cassette has little effect on fitness compared to a strain containing an analogous plasmid carrying wild type E. coli 5S rRNA, and the V. proteolyticus 5S rRNA gene is not inactivated after prolonged growth. These results demonstrate the feasibility of developing small standardized identification cassettes that can utilize already existing highly sensitive rRNA detection methods. Cassettes of this type could in principle be incorporated into either the engineered regions of recombinant plasmids or their hosts.
Molecular organization of 5S rDNA in fishes of the genus Brycon.	There are few reports on the genomic organization of 5S rDNA in fish species. To characterize the 5S rDNA nucleotide sequence and chromosomal localization in the Neotropical fishes of the genus Brycon, 5S rDNA copies from seven species were generated by PCR. The nucleotide sequences of the coding region (5S rRNA gene) and the nontranscribed spacer (NTS) were determined, revealing that the 5S rRNA genes were highly conserved, while the NTSs were widely variable among the species analyzed. Moreover, two classes of NTS were detected in each species, characterized by base substitutions and insertions-deletions. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), two 5S rDNA chromosome loci that could be related to the two 5S rDNA NTS classes were observed in at least one of the species studied. 5S rDNA sequencing and chromosomal localization permitted the characterization of Brycon spp. and suggest a higher similarity among some of them. The data obtained indicate that the 5S rDNA can be an useful genetic marker for species identification and evolutionary studies.
Organization of 5S rDNA in species of the fish Leporinus: two different genomic locations are characterized by distinct nontranscribed spacers.	To address understanding the organization of the 5S rRNA multigene family in the fish genome, the nucleotide sequence and organization array of 5S rDNA were investigated in the genus Leporinus, a representative freshwater fish group of South American fauna. PCR, subgenomic library screening, genomic blotting, fluorescence in situ hybridization, and DNA sequencing were employed in this study. Two arrays of 5S rDNA were identified for all species investigated, one consisting of monomeric repeat units of around 200 bp and another one with monomers of 900 bp. These 5S rDNA arrays were characterized by distinct NTS sequences (designated NTS-I and NTS-II for the 200- and 900-bp monomers, respectively); however, their coding sequences were nearly identical. The 5S rRNA genes were clustered in two chromosome loci, a major one corresponding to the NTS-I sites and a minor one corresponding to the NTS-II sites. The NTS-I sequence was variable among Leporinus spp., whereas the NTS-II was conserved among them and even in the related genus Schizodon. The distinct 5S rDNA arrays might characterize two 5S rRNA gene subfamilies that have been evolving independently in the genome.
Karyotype analysis of Lilium longiflorum and Lilium rubellum by chromosome banding and fluorescence in situ hybridisation.	Detailed karyotypes of Lilium longiflorum and L. rubellum were constructed on the basis of chromosome arm lengths, C-banding, AgNO3 staining, and PI-DAPI banding, together with fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) with the 5S and 45S rDNA sequences as probes. The C-banding patterns that were obtained with the standard BSG technique revealed only few minor bands on heterologous positions of the L. longiflorum and L. rubellum chromosomes. FISH of the 5S and 45S rDNA probes on L. longiflorum metaphase complements showed overlapping signals at proximal positions of the short arms of chromosomes 4 and 7, a single 5S rDNA signal on the secondary constriction of chromosome 3, and one 45S rDNA signal adjacent to the 5S rDNA signal on the subdistal part of the long arm of chromosome 3. In L. rubellum, we observed co-localisation of the 5S and 45S rDNA sequences on the short arm of chromosomes 2 and 4 and on the long arms of chromosomes 2 and 3, and two adjacent bands on chromosome 12. Silver staining (Ag-NOR) of the nucleoli and NORs in L. longiflorum and L. rubellum yielded a highly variable number of signals in interphase nuclei and only a few faint silver deposits on the NORs of mitotic metaphase chromosomes. In preparations stained with PI and DAPI, we observed both red- and blue-fluorescing bands at different positions on the L. longiflorum and L. rubellum chromosomes. The red-fluorescing or so-called reverse PI-DAPI bands always coincided with rDNA sites, whereas the blue-fluorescing DAPI bands corresponded to C-bands. Based on these techniques, we could identify most of chromosomes of the L. longiflorum and L. rubellum karyotypes.
Microbial detection with low molecular weight RNA.	The need to monitor microorganisms in the environment has increased interest in assays based on hybridization probes that target nucleic acids (e.g., rRNA). We report the development of liquid-phase assays for specific bacterial 5S rRNA sequences or similarly sized artificial RNAs (aRNAs) using molecular beacon technology. These beacons fluoresce only in the presence of specific target sequences, rendering as much as a 27-fold fluorescence enhancement. The assays can be used with both crude cell lysates and purified total RNA preparations. Minimal sample preparation (e.g., heating to promote leakage from cells) is sufficient to detect many Gram-negative bacteria. Using this approach it was possible to detect an aRNA-labeled Escherichia coli strain in the presence of a large background of an otherwise identical E. coli strain. Finally, by using a longer wavelength carboxytetramethylrhodamine beacon it was possible to reduce the fraction of the signal due to cellular autofluorescence to below 0.5%.
Molecular diversity and physical mapping of 5S rDNA in wild and cultivated oat grasses (Poaceae: Aveneae).	5S rDNA repeats studied in five genera of Aveneae have lengths between 285 and 329 bp (Avena sativa, Avena macrostachya, 26 species of Helictotrichon, Pseudarrhenatherum longifolium, Lagurus ovatus, and Trisetum spicatum). In only a single species (Helictotrichon aetolicum) an additional repeat of 456 bp occurs infrequently. Variation is largely due to insertions or deletions in the nontranscribed spacer as determined from sequences of 163 independent clones. The 5S gene of the Aveneae studied is conserved in length and sequence except for Helictotrichon bromoides and Helictotrichon marginatum in which duplications occur at two different sites. This new type of duplication and all duplications reported to date in 5S genes of angiosperms are shown to center on defined palindromic sequences. The "uncommon" 5S gene sequences detected in some Aveneae are not necessarily nonfunctional as pseudogenes because the essential features of the internal control region are maintained even after such duplication events. In each instance such gene sequences have spacers with unmodified structure, indicating that change in gene sequence is not necessarily coupled with change in adjacent spacers. The value of 5S spacer sequences for genomic identifications in Aveneae is exemplified in A. macrostachya (perennial), A. sativa (annual), and several diploid taxa of the genus Helictotrichon.
Extrachromosomal circular DNA of tandemly repeated genomic sequences in Drosophila.	One characteristic of genomic plasticity is the presence of extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA). This DNA is found in various eukaryotes from yeast to humans, and its levels are elevated by exposure to carcinogens. eccDNA is heterogeneous in size and composed of chromosomal sequences. In this study we used two-dimensional gel electrophoresis to detect and characterize eccDNA in Drosophila. We found eccDNA throughout the fly's life cycle. These molecules comprise up to 10% of the total repetitive DNA content, and their size ranges from <1 kb to >20 kb. The eccDNA population contains circular multimers of tandemly repeated genes such as histones, rDNA, Stellate, and the Suppressor of Stellate. Multimers of centromeric heterochromatin sequences are included in eccDNA as well. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that intramolecular homologous recombination between direct tandem repeats is a favorite mechanism for eccDNA formation. The level of eccDNA increased following MMS treatment of wild-type larvae, consistent with phenomena observed in cultured mammalian cells. This shows mutagen-induced eccDNA formation in the context of the whole organism for the first time. Mutations in the genes okra, mus309, and mei41 did not affect eccDNA under normal conditions or following mutagen treatment, implying that eccDNA formation is different from known pathways of DNA repair.
Making a robust biomolecular time scale for phylogenetic studies.	The further evolution of informational molecular sequences should depend on the number of viable alternatives possible for the sequences as set by selection, the unrepaired mutation rate, and time. Most biomolecular clocks are based on Kimura's nearly neutral mutation random-drift hypothesis. This clock assumes that informational sequences are in equilibrium, i.e., the nucleotides mutate at a uniform rate and the number of nucleotides unconstrained by selection remains constant. Correcting for deviations from these assumptions should produce a more accurate clock. Informational molecules probably formed from polynucleotides having some other function such as nitrogen or nucleotide storage, thus being initially functionally unselected. At any time the rate of development of functionality in a protein may be expected to be proportional to the number of viable alternatives of sequence in its potentially interacting regions. Assuming the rate of unrepaired mutations is constant, these clocks should exponentially slow as they evolve, each with a different rate toward individual equilibria. Also if the degree of selection changes, its clock rate should change. For a more precise clock two approaches are suggested to estimate these time dependent changes in evolutionary rate. An improved clock could improve estimation of phylogeny and put a time scale on that phylogeny.
Genomic organization of rDNA loci in natural populations of Medicago truncatula Gaertn.	Medicago truncatula Gaertn. is an annual self-pollinating species characterized by a diploid complement 2n = 16 and low DNA content. It responds very well to transformation methods so it is used as a model species for Leguminosae. In contrast with the advanced studies in molecular biology, cytogenetic research has remained limited even though it is an extremely valuable approach to the analysis of the genome structure. In the present study we examined the chromosomal distribution of rDNA sequences in five natural populations of M. truncatula, explored the genomic diversity of this species and found markers for chromosome identification. FISH experiments revealed three distribution patterns of rDNA sequences, distinguished by one, two and three loci of 5S genes; 18S-5.8S-25S genes were always localized at a single locus. The results add information to the genome structure of M. truncatula, revealing a pattern of distribution of rDNA genes unobserved previously, which consists of 5S genes clustered at a single locus. The physical mapping of rDNA sequences is a first contribution towards the construction of a detailed molecular karyotype of M. truncatula.
In vitro analysis of the sequences required for transcription of the Arabidopsis thaliana 5S rRNA genes.	In vivo, we have already shown that only two of the 5S rDNA array blocks of the Arabidopsis thaliana genome produce the mature 5S rRNAs. Deletions and point mutations were introduced in an Arabidopsis 5S rDNA-transcribed region and its 5'- and 3'-flanks in order to analyse their effects on transcription activity. In vitro transcription revealed different transcription control regions. One control region essential for transcription initiation was identified in the 5'-flanking sequence. The major sequence determinants were a TATA-like motif (-28 to -23), a GC dinucleotide (-12 to -11), a 3-bp AT-rich region (-4 to -2) and a C residue at -1. They are important for both accurate transcription initiation and transcription efficiency. Transcription level was regulated by polymerase III (Pol III) re-initiation rate as in tRNA genes in which TATA-like motif is involved. Active 5S rDNA transcription additionally required an intragenic promoter composed of an A-box, an Intermediate Element (IE) and a C-box. Double-stranded oligonucleotides corresponding to different fragments of the transcribed region, used as competitors, revealed the main importance of internal promoter elements. A stretch of four T is sufficient for transcription termination. Transcription of Arabidopsis 5S rDNA requires 30 bp of 5'-flanking region, a promoter internal to the transcribed region, and a stretch of T for transcription termination.
Authentication of Panax notoginseng by 5S-rRNA spacer domain and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis.	The great majority of Panax species are well-known herbal medicines in the Orient, and many of them share a close resemblance in appearance and chemical composition. Among these Panax species, the root of P. notoginseng (Sanqi) is a unique herb that has distinct clinical usage. Here, the 5S-rRNA spacer domains were isolated from P. notoginseng, P. japonicus var. major, P. stipuleanatus, P. quinquefolius, P. ginseng, P. zingiberensis, and P. wangianus, and four common adulterants of P. notoginseng including Curcuma wenyujin, Curcuma longa, Bletilla striata and Gynura segetum. The spacer domains were sequenced and compared, which showed over 75 % DNA identity among all Panax species, but not for the adulterants. In addition, random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis was used to distinguish different members of Panax genus as well as the morphological variants of P. notoginseng. These molecular methods could be used in the authentic identification of P. notoginseng from other Panax species.
Transcription termination by RNA polymerase III: uncoupling of polymerase release from termination signal recognition.	Xenopus RNA polymerase III specifically initiates transcription on poly(dC)-tailed DNA templates in the absence of other class III transcription factors normally required for transcription initiation. In experimental analyses of transcription termination using DNA fragments with a 5S rRNA gene positioned downstream of the tailed end, only 40% of the transcribing polymerase molecules terminate at the normally efficient Xenopus borealis somatic-type 5S rRNA terminators; the remaining 60% read through these signals and give rise to runoff transcripts. We find that the nascent RNA strand is inefficiently displaced from the DNA template during transcription elongation. Interestingly, only polymerases synthesizing a displaced RNA terminate at the 5S rRNA gene terminators; when the nascent RNA is not displaced from the template, read-through transcripts are synthesized. RNAs with 3' ends at the 5S rRNA gene terminators are judged to result from authentic termination events on the basis of multiple criteria, including kinetic properties, the precise 3' ends generated, release of transcripts from the template, and recycling of the polymerase. Even though only 40% of the polymerase molecules ultimately terminate at either of the tandem 5S rRNA gene terminators, virtually all polymerases pause there, demonstrating that termination signal recognition can be experimentally uncoupled from polymerase release. Thus, termination is dependent on RNA strand displacement during transcription elongation, whereas termination signal recognition is not. We interpret our results in terms of a two-step model for transcription termination in which polymerase release is dependent on the fate of the nascent RNA strand during transcription elongation.
rRNA gene organization in the Lyme disease spirochete, Borrelia burgdorferi.	Lyme disease is the most common vector-borne disease in the United States. The causative agent is the spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi. The copy number and organization of the genes encoding the rRNAs of this organism were determined. There is a single gene for 16S rRNA and two copies each of the 23S rRNA and 5S rRNA genes. All of the genes are located within a chromosomal fragment of approximately 9.5 to 10.0 kb. The 23S and 5S rRNA genes are tandemly duplicated in the order 23S-5S-23S-5S and are apparently not linked to the 16S rRNA gene, which is situated over 2 kb upstream from the 23S-5S duplication. The individual copies of the 23S-5S duplication are separated by a 182-bp spacer. Within each 23S-5S unit, an identical 22-bp spacer separates the 23S and 5S rRNA sequences from each other. The genome organization of the 23S-5S gene cluster in a number of different B. burgdorferi isolates obtained at a number of different geographical locations, as well as in several other species of Borrelia, was investigated. All isolates of B. burgdorferi tested displayed the tandem duplication, whereas the closely related species B. hermsii, B. anserina, and B. turicatae all contained a single copy of each of the genes. In addition, different geographical isolates of B. burgdorferi can be differentiated on the basis of a restriction fragment length polymorphism associated with the 23S-5S gene cluster. This polymorphism can be a useful tool for the determination of genetic relatedness between different isolates of B. burgdorferi.
Comparison of flanking regions of the 5S ribosomal ribonucleic acid genes in Leptospira biflexa and Leptospira interrogans.	One of the genes encoding the 5S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) for the Leptospira biflexa strain Patoc I was isolated and sequenced. The physical maps of the 5S rRNA genes in Leptospira were constructed. The strains of Leptospira biflexa had two genes on their chromosome; these two 5S rRNA genes were located several kb apart and sequences flanking these genes were divergent. In contrast to saprophytic leptospires, maps in parasitic leptospires that had only one gene for 5S rRNA on their genome were highly conserved and the physical maps of the genes in almost all strains were similar.
A full saturated linkage map of Picea abies including AFLP, SSR, ESTP, 5S rDNA and morphological markers.	Based on an F(1) progeny of 73 individuals, two parental maps were constructed according to the double pseudo-test cross strategy. The paternal map contained 16 linkage groups for a total genetic length of 1,792 cM. The maternal map covered 1,920 cM, and consisted of 12 linkage groups. These parental maps were then integrated using 66 intercross markers. The resulting consensus map covered 2,035 cM and included 755 markers (661 AFLPs, 74 SSRs, 18 ESTPs, the 5S rDNA and the early cone formation trait) on 12 linkage groups, reflecting the haploid number of chromosomes of Picea abies. The average spacing between two adjacent markers was 2.6 cM. The presence of 39 of the SSR and/or ESTP markers from this consensus map on other published maps of different Picea and Pinus species allowed us to establish partial linkage group homologies across three P. abies maps (up to five common markers per linkage group). This first saturated linkage map of P. abies could be therefore used as a support for developing comparative genome mapping in conifers.
General stress protein CTC from Bacillus subtilis specifically binds to ribosomal 5S RNA.	Two recombinant proteins of the CTC family were prepared: the general stress protein CTC from Bacillus subtilis and its homolog from Aquifex aeolicus. The general stress protein CTC from B. subtilis forms a specific complex with 5S rRNA and its stable fragment of 60 nucleotides, which contains internal loop E. The ribosomal protein TL5 from Thermus thermophilus, which binds with high affinity to 5S rRNA in the loop E region, was also shown to replace the CTC protein from B. subtilis in its complexes with 5S rRNA and its fragment. The findings suggest that the protein CTC from B. subtilis binds to the same site on 5S rRNA as the protein TL5. The protein CTC from A. aeolicus, which is 50 amino acid residues shorter from the N-terminus than the proteins TL5 from T. thermophilus and CTC from B. subtilis, does not interact with 5S rRNA.
Analysis of Trichosporon isolates obtained from the houses of patients with summer-type hypersensitivity pneumonitis.	Summer-type hypersensitivity pneumonitis (SHP) is type III or IV allergies developed by repeated inhalation of arthroconidia of Trichosporon species. We identified 105 strains obtained from the homes of 36 SHP patients by analysis of the intergenic spacer (IGS) 1 region, which is located between the 26S and 5S rRNA genes; in addition, we analyzed the IGS genotypes of the strains. Serologically, Trichosporon species are classified as serotype I, II, III, or I-III. Of the 105 strains, 43 (41.1%), 53 (50.5%), and 9 (8.6%) strains were isolated as serotypes I, II, and III, respectively. Serotype I, II, and III strains were recovered from 19 (52.8%), 29 (80.6%), and 4 (11.1%) of the 36 houses of SHP patients, respectively. No serotype I-III strains were isolated from the houses. Of 43 serotype I strains, 42 (97.7%) were identified as Trichosporon dermatis, and the remaining one was T. terricola. Of 53 serotype II strains, 37 (69.8%) were identified as T. asahii, and the remaining serotype II isolates were T. aquatile (1.9%), T. coremiiforme (7.5%), T. faecale (1.9%), T. japonicum (15.1%), and T. ovoides (3.8%). There were nine serotype III strains comprised of T. montevideense (77.8%) and T. domesticum (22.2%). Intraspecies diversity was found only in T. asahii. This microorganism also causes opportunistic infections (trichosporonosis); seven genotypes of its IGS 1 region have been identified. While the strains of T. asahii obtained from Japanese patients with trichosporonosis were genotype I, the strains from the houses of SHP patients were genotype III. Based on our analysis, we conclude that the strains that play the most significant roles in the development of SHP are T. dermatis, T. asahii genotype 3, and T. montevideense, representing serotypes I, II, and III, respectively.
Two classes of 5S rDNA unit arrays of the silver fir, Abies alba Mill.: structure, localization and evolution.	The structure and organization of the 5S ribosomal DNA units of the silver fir, Abies alba Mill., as well as their position in the chromosome complement were investigated. PCR amplification of the gene and nontranscribed spacer region, sequence analysis and Southern hybridization, using a homologous probe, detected DNA sequences of approximately 550 bp and 700 bp. Sequence analysis of the spacers revealed that the difference in length between the sequences occurred in the middle spacer region as a result of the amplification of a 75-bp sequence of the short unit class, which is organized in four 54- to 68-bp tandem repeats in the long spacer unit. The 5S rDNA transcribed region is 120 bp long and shows high sequence similarity with other gymnosperm species. The comparative analysis of 5' and 3' flanking sequences of 5S rRNA genes of silver fir and other gymnosperms indicates that A. alba spacer units have the same rate of evolution and are more closely related to Larix and Pseudotsuga than to Pinus and Picea. Southern hybridization and fluorescence in situ hybridization of metaphase chromosomes of A. alba suggest that the short and long spacer units are organized as separate tandem arrays at two chromosomal loci on chromosomes V and XI.
Tandem repeat of the 23S and 5S ribosomal RNA genes in Borrelia burgdorferi, the etiological agent of Lyme disease.	The DNA fragments containing the rrl and rrf genes were subcloned from a EMBL3 recombinant phage of Borrelia burgdorferi strain B31 into pUC18 and were characterized by restriction analysis and Southern hybridization. A fine restriction map of the fragments was constructed and the organization of the genes was determined. The genomic hybridization using the gene probes from B. burgdorferi showed that there are two sets of rrl/rrf genes in that genome. The results also revealed the important fact that the gene sets are repeated directly by 3.2-kb long. This is the first report of this remarkable feature in the organization of the eubacterial rRNA genes.
Sequence ordinations: a multivariate analysis approach to analysing large sequence data sets.	Ordination is a powerful method for analysing complex data sets but has been largely ignored in sequence analysis. This paper shows how to use principal coordinates analysis to find low-dimensional representations of distance matrices derived from aligned sets of sequences. The method takes a matrix of Euclidean distances between all pairs of sequence and finds a coordinate space where the distances are exactly preserved. The main problem is to find a measure of distance between aligned sequences that is Euclidean. The simplest distance function is the square root of the percentage difference (as measured by identities) between two sequences, where one ignores any positions in the alignment where there is a gap in any sequence. If one does not ignore positions with a gap, the distances cannot be guaranteed to be Euclidean but the deleterious effects are trivial. Two examples of using the method are shown. A set of 226 aligned globins were analysed and the resulting ordination very successfully represents the known patterns of relationship between the sequences. In the other example, a set of 610 aligned 5S rRNA sequences were analysed. Sequence ordinations complement phylogenetic analyses. They should not be viewed as a complete alternative.
Genes encoding transcription factor IIIA and the RNA polymerase common subunit RPB6 are divergently transcribed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The gene encoding Saccharomyces cerevisiae transcription factor TFIIIA has been found adjacent to RPB6, a gene that specifies a subunit shared by nuclear RNA polymerases. Analysis of DNA upstream of the RPB6 gene revealed an open reading frame that predicts a protein, designated PZF1, with nine C2H2 zinc fingers. The presence of nine C2H2 zinc fingers in PZF1 protein, a hallmark of amphibian TFIIIA proteins, suggested that PZF1 might be a TFIIIA homologue. We found that purified recombinant PZF1 specifically binds the internal control region (ICR) of the 5S rRNA gene in S. cerevisiae. The presence of nine C2H2 zinc fingers, the specific binding to ICR DNA, and the similarity of the predicted molecular mass of PZF1 with that determined for purified yeast TFIIIA, together indicate that PZF1 is TFIIIA. The yeast and amphibian TFIIIA proteins share only a limited number of residues outside of those normally conserved in C2H2 zinc fingers; these conserved residues may provide clues to the sequence specificity of these proteins. The PZF1 gene was found to be single copy, transcribed into a 1.5-kilobase mRNA, and essential for yeast cell viability. Interestingly, the yeast RPB6 and TFIIIA coding sequences are divergently transcribed and are separated by only 233 base pairs, providing the potential for coregulated expression of components of RNA polymerases and the 5S rRNA component of ribosomes.
Spliced leader RNA sequences of Trypanosoma rangeli are organized within the 5S rRNA-encoding genes.	The spliced leader RNA(SL RNA)-encoding genes of the salivarian New World trypanosome, Trypanosoma rangeli, are organized within the 5S rRNA tandem repeats. Each repeat contains genes encoding an SL RNA and a 5S rRNA in the same orientation of transcription. This SL-5S organization is also present in the African trypanosome, Trypanosoma vivax. A similar association of SL and 5S genes has been observed in some nematodes, but has not been described previously in trypanosomatids.
Genomic organization and evolution of the 5S ribosomal DNA in the ancient fish sturgeon.	Ribosomal DNA in sturgeon is informative when analyzed at the molecular level because it bears unique characteristics that are, to a certain extent, ancestral within vertebrates. In this paper, we examine the structure and the molecular evolution of the 5S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) region in 13 sturgeon species, comparing both the 5S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes and the non-transcribed spacer (NTS) sequences between the coding regions. We have found that different NTS and 5S gene variants are intermixed in the 5S rDNA arrays of the different sturgeon species and that all variants are ancestral, having been maintained over many millions of years. Using predictive models, we have found similar levels of sequence diversity in the coding regions, as well as in the non-coding region, but fixed interspecific differences are underrepresented for 5S genes. However, contrary to the expectations, we have not found fixed differences between NTS sequences when comparing many pairs of species. Specifically, when they belong to the same phylogeographic clade of the four into which the sturgeon is divided, but fixation of mutations and divergence is found between species belonging to different phylogeographic clades. Our results suggest that the evolution of the two parts of the 5S rDNA region cannot be explained exclusively as the outcome of a balance between mutational, homogenizing (i.e., gene conversion as a predominant force in sturgeon), and selective forces. Rather, they suggest that other factors (i.e., hybridization) might be superimposed over those forces and thus could to some extent be masking their effects.
In Euglena, spliced-leader RNA (SL-RNA) and 5S rRNA genes are tandemly repeated.	In Euglena gracilis, a 26 nucleotide leader sequence (spliced leader sequence = SL) is transferred by trans-splicing to the 5' end of a vast majority of cytoplasmic mRNAs (8). The SL originates from the 5' extremity of a family of closely related snRNAs (SL-RNAs) which are about 100 nucleotide long. In this paper we present the nucleotide sequences of two SL-RNA genes, confirming the sequences previously established by sequencing purified SL-RNAs. Although some SL-RNA genes are dispersed throughout the genome, we show that the majority of SL-RNA genes are located on 0.6 kb repeated units which also encode the cytoplasmic 5S rRNA. We estimate that the copy number of these repeated units is about 300 per haploid genome. The association of SL-RNA and 5S rRNA genes in tandemly repeated units is also found in nematodes but paradoxically does not exist in trypanosomes which are phylogenically much closer to Euglena. We also show that a high number of sequences analogous to the 26 nucleotide SL are dispersed throughout the genome and are not associated with SL-RNAs.
A survey of multiple sequence comparison methods.	Multiple sequence comparison refers to the search for similarity in three or more sequences. This article presents a survey of the exhaustive (optimal) and heuristic (possibly sub-optimal) methods developed for the comparison of multiple macromolecular sequences. Emphasis is given to the different approaches of the heuristic methods. Four distance measures derived from information engineering and genetic studies are introduced for the comparison between two alignments of sequences. The use of entropy, which plays a central role in information theory as measures of information, choice and uncertainty, is proposed as a simple measure for the evaluation of the optimality of an alignment in the absence of any a priori knowledge about the structures of the sequences being compared. This article also gives two examples of comparison between alternative alignments of the same set of 5SRNAs as obtained by several different heuristic methods.
The transcriptional activity of RNA polymerase I is a key determinant for the level of all ribosome components.	Regulation of ribosome biogenesis is a key element of cell biology, not only because ribosomes are directly required for growth, but also because ribosome production monopolizes nearly 80% of the global transcriptional activity in rapidly growing yeast cells. These observations underscore the need for a tight regulation of ribosome synthesis in response to environmental conditions. In eukaryotic cells, ribosome synthesis involves the activities of the three nuclear RNA polymerases (Pol). Although postulated, there is no clear evidence indicating whether the maintenance of an equimolar supply of ribosomal components reflects communication between the nuclear transcriptional machineries. Here, by constructing a yeast strain expressing a Pol I that remains constitutively competent for the initiation of transcription under stress conditions, we demonstrate that derepression of Pol I transcription leads to a derepression of Pol II transcription that is restricted to the genes encoding ribosomal proteins. Furthermore, we show that the level of 5S rRNA, synthesized by Pol III, is deregulated concomitantly with Pol I transcription. Altogether, these results indicate that a partial derepression of Pol I activity drives an abnormal accumulation of all ribosomal components, highlighting the critical role of the regulation of Pol I activity within the control of ribosome biogenesis.
Physical mapping of 5S and 45S rDNA loci in pufferfishes (Tetraodontiformes).	Chromosomal features, location and variation of the major and minor rDNA genes cluster were studied in three pufferfish species: Sphoeroides greeleyi and Sphoeroides testudineus (Tetraodontidae) and Cyclichthys spinosus (Diodontidae). The location of the major rDNA was revealed with an 18S probe in two loci for all species. The minor rDNA loci (5S rDNA) was found in one chromosome pair in tetraodontid fishes and four sites located on two distinct chromosomal pairs in C. spinosus. A syntenical organization was not observed among the ribosomal genes. Signal homogeneity for GC/AT-DNA specific fluorochromes was observed in diodontid fish except in the NORs regions, which were CMA3-positive. Giemsa karyotypes of tetraodontid species presents 2n=46, having the same diploid value of other Sphoeroides species that have been investigated. On the other hand, the karyotype of C. spinosus, described for the first time, shows 2n=50 chromosomes (4m+18sm+12st+16a). The foreknowledge of the karyotypic structure of this group and also the physical mapping of certain genes could be very helpful for further DNA sequence analysis.
Tetramerization of an RNA oligonucleotide containing a GGGG sequence.	Poly rG can form four-stranded helices. The Hoogsteen-paired quartets of G residues on which such structures depend are so stable that they will form in 5'-GMP solutions, provided that Na+ or K+ are present (see for example, refs 2-4). Telomeric DNA sequences, which are G-rich, adopt four-stranded antiparallel G-quartet conformations in vitro, and parallel tetramerization of G-rich sequences may be involved in meiosis. Here we show that RNAs containing short runs of Gs can also tetramerize. A 19-base oligonucleotide derived from the 5S RNA of Escherichia coli (strand III), 5'GCCGAUGGUAGUGUGGGGU3', forms a K(+)-stabilized tetrameric aggregate that depends on the G residues at its 3' end. This complex is so stable that it would be surprising if similar structures do not occur in nature.
Cloning and partial characterization of genes for ribosomal ribonucleic acid in Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis.	A cosmid gene library of the genome of Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis 712 was probed for the presence of 16S rRNA genes, using 32P 5' end-labelled 16S rRNA fragments. Cosmid DNA from positive clones responsible for hybridisation was subcloned into a high copy number vector and a restriction map was constructed. The location of the 16S, 23S and 5S rRNA genes was determined on this map. Transcriptional promoter activity was identified upstream of the 5' end of the 16S rRNA gene. By probing L. lactis 712 chromosomal DNA cut with a range of restriction endonucleases, with a conserved oligonucleotide to the 5' end of the 16S rRNA gene, 6 copies of rRNA genes were identified.
Evaluation of real-time PCR for the early detection of Legionella pneumophila DNA in serum samples.	Legionella pneumonia can be difficult to diagnose. Existing laboratory tests all have shortcomings, especially in the ability to diagnose Legionnaires' disease (LD) at an early stage of the disease in a specimen that is readily obtainable. The aim of this study was to assess the performance of PCR as a rapid diagnostic method and to compare the results of different PCR assays of serum samples from patients with LD. Samples included 151 serum samples from 68 patients with proven LD and 60 serum samples from 36 patients with respiratory tract infections other than Legionella. PCR assays were based on the 5S rRNA gene, 16S rRNA gene and the mip gene. The samples from patients with infections caused by pathogens other than Legionella all tested negative in PCR. Among the patients with proven LD 54.4 % (37/68) tested positive in 5S rRNA PCR, 52.9 % (36/68) in mip gene PCR and 30.9 % (21/68) in 16S rRNA PCR in the first available serum sample. The association between threshold cycle value in 5S PCR positive serum samples (n=49) and C-reactive protein value was determined, and showed a strong negative correlation (Pearson correlation coefficient r=-0.63, P<0.0001). In addition to existing tests for the diagnosis of LD, detection of Legionella DNA in serum could be a useful tool for early diagnosis of LD caused by any Legionella species and serogroup, and has the potential to provide a diagnosis in a time frame that could affect initial infection management.
Cloning, characterization and taxonomic significance of genes for the 5S ribosomal RNA of Leptonema illini strain 3055.	The genes encoding the 5S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) for Leptonema illini strain 3055 were isolated and sequenced. The 5S RNA molecule encoded was 117 nucleotides long. The genome of strain 3055 contained two genes for 5S rRNA that were located close together. The nucleotide sequences of the Leptonema illini genes exhibited less similarity to the rRNA gene of Leptospira interrogans strain Moulton and also to those of typical eubacterial genes than did the rRNA genes of other leptospires. However, the overall secondary structure of the 5S rRNA encoded exhibited a strong similarity to that of typical eubacterial 5S rRNA. Southern hybridization of the 5S rRNA gene probe with the genomic DNA of strain 965, which is currently classified as Leptospira biflexa, showed the latter to have close similarity to that of strain 3055. The physical map of strain 965 was quite similar to that of strain 3055 and was greatly different from that of any other strains of L. biflexa. In the organization of 5S rRNA genes, strain 965 is sufficiently different from other members of the genus Leptospira to be regarded as a member of the genus Leptonema.
Molecular authentication of Radix Puerariae Lobatae and Radix Puerariae Thomsonii by ITS and 5S rRNA spacer sequencing.	In the present study, we examined nuclear DNA sequences in an attempt to reveal the relationships between Pueraria lobata (Willd). Ohwi, P. thomsonii Benth., and P. montana (Lour.) Merr. We found that internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences of nuclear ribosomal DNA are highly divergent in P. lobata and P. thomsonii, and four types of ITS with different length are found in the two species. On the other hand, DNA sequences of 5S rRNA gene spacer are highly conserved across multiple copies in P. lobata and P. thomsonii, they could be used to identify P. lobata, P. thomsonii, and P. montana of this complex, and may serve as a useful tool in medical authentication of Radix Puerariae Lobatae and Radix Puerariae Thomsonii.
Classification of acidophilic, neutrotolerant and neutrophilic streptomycetes by nucleotide sequencing of 5S ribosomal RNA.	Complete 5S ribosomal RNA sequences were obtained for four acidophilic actinomycetes, seven neutrophilic streptomycetes and a strain of Streptoverticillium baldaccii. All of the organisms contained RNAs belonging to the 120 nucleotide type. An evolutionary tree was generated after combining the test data with results from similar studies on representative Gram-positive bacteria. The acidophilic, neutrotolerant and neutrophilic actinomycetes were recovered in a distinct cluster that was equated with the genus Streptomyces. The sequence data support the view that the genera Chainia, Elytrosporangium, Kitasatoa and Microellobosporia should be considered as synonyms of the genus Streptomyces. The recovery of the Streptoverticillium baldaccii strain on the fringe of the Streptomyces cluster is also consistent with current trends in the taxonomy of these organisms. Further work is needed to determine the taxonomic status of the two streptomycete subgroups that comprised the streptomycete cluster.
Herpetomonas spp. isolated from tomato fruits (Lycopersicon esculentum) in southern Spain.	A flagellate of the family Trypanosomatidae was isolated from fruits of Lycopersicon esculentum (tomato) in southeastern Spain. The isolate was successfully adapted to in vitro culture in monophasic media. The morphology showed the kinetoplast to be positioned towards the middle of the body, and the typical opistomastigote form characteristic of members of the genus Herpetomonas. Amplification of the mini-exon gene was negative, whilst for the 5S ribosomal rRNA gene the result was positive. The DNA sequence was obtained and its alignment with other trypasomatids, obtained using the BLAST algorithm, suggested it was closely related to Herpetomonas samuelpessoai.
Dose dependence of emergence of resistance to linezolid in Enterococcus faecalis in vivo.	The emergence of resistance to antibiotics in vivo, particularly in commensal, potentially pathogenic bacteria, is a factor that is key to the future of antibiotics. To better document the circumstances favoring the emergence of resistance to linezolid (the first of a new class of antibiotics, the oxazolidinones), we modeled the effect of different regimens of linezolid on Enterococcus faecalis in gnotobiotic mice.
Chromosomal stasis in diploids contrasts with genome restructuring in auto- and allopolyploid taxa of Hepatica (Ranunculaceae).	Polyploidization and chromosomal rearrangements are recognized as major forces in plant evolution. Their role is investigated in the disjunctly distributed northern hemisphere Hepatica (Ranunculaceae). Chromosome numbers, karyotype morphology, banding patterns, 5S and 35S rDNA localization in all known species were investigated and interpreted in a phylogenetic context established from nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and plastid matK sequences. All species had a chromosome base number of x = 7. The karyotype was symmetric and showed little variation among diploids with one locus each of 5S and 35S rDNA, except for interpopulational variation concerning 35S rDNA loci number and localization in H. asiatica. Tetraploids exhibited chromosomal changes, including asymmetry and/or loss of rDNA loci. Nuclear and plastid sequences resulted in incongruent topologies because of the positions of some tetraploid taxa. The diversification of Hepatica occurred not earlier than the Pliocene. Genome restructuring, especially involving 35S rDNA, within a few million yr or less characterizes evolution of both auto- and allopolyploids and of the diploid species H. asiatica, which is the presumptive ancestor of two other diploid species.
The assembly of functional preinitiation complexes and transcription of 5S RNA-encoding genes containing point mutations.	The transcription of several Syrian hamster 5S RNA-encoding genes (5S genes) containing single and multiple point mutations in and around the intragenic control region has been analyzed in a HeLa cell-free system. Although most genes with point mutations displayed normal levels of transcription, several exhibited a three- to fivefold reduction in transcription. These mutations interfere with the interaction between the 5S genes and the soluble factors. The above studies help to establish the importance of specific nucleotides within the 5S gene for productive interactions of individual transcription factors in vitro.
Characterization of potentially functional 5S rRNA-encoding genes within ribosomal DNA repeats of the nematode Meloidogyne arenaria.	In the plant-parasitic nematode Meloidogyne arenaria, isolated rDNA repeats show length heterogeneity, and are unusual in that they contain putative 5S ribosomal RNA pseudogenes [Vahidi et al., J. Mol. Evol. 27 (1988) 222-227]. Potentially functional 5S rRNA-encoding genes can also be identified in various rDNA repeats, which appear to be tandemly organized in the genome.
Drosophila 5 S RNA processing requires the 1-118 base pair and additional sequence proximal to the processing site.	Using an in vitro processing system, we have identified a required sequence surrounding the Drosophila melanogaster 5 S RNA processing site at nucleotide 120. Mutations in this region vary the processing rate from complete inhibition to a level equal to or greater than wild type. Analysis of mutants at +1 and in the region 118-122 separates the inhibitory effect into two parts. 1) Nucleotide 118 C, the base-paired nucleotide in helix I proximal to the processing site, plays an essential role. Changing it to a purine inhibits processing. The +1-118 base pair must be intact, but this alone is not sufficient for processing, since compensatory changes at +1 do not restore down-processing mutants at 118 to the wild type level. 2) The processing site has to be pyrimidine rich; multiple contiguous purines inhibit processing. On the other hand, multiple pyrimidines can largely negate the inhibitory effect of a mutation at position 118. Thus a base-paired C at 118 followed by a stretch of pyrimidines is the processing signal, which may be recognized by the processing enzyme and/or a required accessory factor.
Comparative analysis of diploid species of Avena L. using cytogenetic and biochemical markers: Avena pilosa M. B. and A. clauda Dur]	The diploid oat species containing the Cp genome - Avena pilosa and A. clauda - were studied using C-banding, fluorescence in situ hybridization with probes pTa71 and pTa794, and electrophoresis of grain storage proteins (avenins). Species with the C genome differed considerably from the species of the A genome group in the karyotype structure, heterochromatin type and distribution, relative positions of the 45S and 5S rRNA gene loci, and avenin patterns. These facts confirmed that the C genome had diverged from the ancestral genome before the radiation of the various A genome. Presumably, further evolution of the A -and C genome species occurred separately.
Analysis of 5S rDNA changes in synthetic allopolyploids Triticum x Aegilops]	By the example of three synthetic allopolyploids: Aegilops sharonensis x Ae. umbellulata (2n =28), Triticum urartu x Ae. tauschii (2n =28), T. dicoccoides x Ae. tauschii (2n =42) the 5S rDNA changes at the early stage of allopolyploidization were investigated. Using fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), the quantitative changes affecting the separate loci of one of the parental genomes were revealed in plants of S3 generation of each hybrid combination. Souther hybridization with genomic DNA of allopolyploid T. urartu x Ae. tauschii (TMU38 x TQ27) revealed lower intensity of the fragments from Ae. tauschii compared with the T. urartu fragments. It may be confirmation of the reduction of signal on 1D chromosome that was revealed in this hybrid using FISH. Both appearance of a new 5S rDNA fragments and full disappearance of fragments from parental species were not showed by Southern hybridization, as well as PCR-analysis of 5-15 plants of S2-S3 generations. The changes were not found under comparison of primary structure of nine 5S rDNA sequences of allopolyploid TMU38 x TQ27 with analogous sequences from parental species genomes. The observable similarity by FISH results of one of the studied synthetic allopolyploids with natural allopolyploid of similar genome composition indicates the early formation of unique for each allopolyploid 5S rDNA organization.
The mechanism of nucleosome assembly onto oligomers of the sea urchin 5 S DNA positioning sequence.	We have used a model system composed of tandem repeats of Lytechinus variegatus 5 S rDNA (Simpson, R. T., Thoma, F., and Brubaker, J. M. (1985) Cell 42, 799-808) reconstituted into chromatin with chicken erythrocyte core histones to investigate the mechanism of chromatin assembly. Nucleosomes are assembled onto the DNA template by mixing histone octamers and DNA in 2 M NaCl followed by stepwise dialysis into very low ionic strength buffer over a 24-h period. By 1.0 M NaCl, a defined intermediate composed of arrays of H3.H4 tetramers has formed, as shown by analytical and preparative ultracentrifugation. Digestion with methidium propyl EDTA.Fe(II) indicates that these tetramers are spaced at 207 base pair intervals, i.e. one/repeat length of the DNA positioning sequence. In 0.8 M NaCl, some H2A.H2B has become associated with the H3.H4 tetramers and DNA. Surprisingly, under these conditions DNA is protected from methidium propyl EDTA.Fe(II) digestion almost as well as in the complete nucleosome, even though these structures are quite deficient in H2A.H2B. By 0.6 M NaCl, nucleosome assembly is complete, and the MPE digestion pattern is indistinguishable from that observed for oligonucleosomes at very low ionic strength. Below 0.6 M NaCl, the oligonucleosomes are involved in various salt-dependent conformational equilibria: at approximately 0.6 M, a 15% reduction in S20,w that mimics a conformational change observed previously with nucleosome core particles; at and above 0.1 M, folding into a more compact structure(s); at and above 0.1 M NaCl, a reaction involving varying amounts of dissociation of histone octamers from a small fraction of the DNA templates. In low ionic strength buffer (less than 1 mM NaCl), oligonucleosomes are present as fully loaded templates in the extended beads-on-a-string structure.
Angiosperm origin and early stages of seed plant evolution deduced from rRNA sequence comparisons.	Complete or partial nucleotide sequences of five different rRNA species, coded by nuclear (18S, 5.8S, and 5S) or chloroplast genomes (5S, 4.5S) from a number of seed plants were determined. Based on the sequence data, the phylogenetic dendrograms were built by two methods, maximum parsimony and compatibility. The topologies of the trees for different rRNA species are not fully congruent, but they share some common features. It may be concluded that both gymnosperms and angiosperms are monophyletic groups. The data obtained suggest that the divergence of all the main groups of extant gymnosperms occurred after the branching off of the angiosperm lineage. As the time of divergence of at least some of these gymnosperm taxa is traceable back to the early Carboniferous, it may be concluded that the genealogical splitting of gymnosperm and angiosperm lineages occurred before this event, at least 360 million years ago, i.e., much earlier than the first angiosperm fossils were dated. Ancestral forms of angiosperms ought to be searched for among Progymnospermopsida. Genealogical relationships among gymnosperm taxa cannot be deduced unambiguously on the basis of rRNA data. The only inference may be that the taxon Gnetopsida is an artificial one, and Gnetum and Ephedra belong to quite different lineages of gymnosperms. As to the phylogenetic position of the two Angiospermae classes, extant monocotyledons seem to be a paraphyletic group located near the root of the angiosperm branch; it emerged at the earliest stages of angiosperm evolution. We may conclude that either monocotyledonous characters arose independently more than once in different groups of ancient Magnoliales or that monocotyledonous forms rather than dicotyledonous Magnoliales were the earliest angiosperms. Judging by the rRNA trees, Magnoliales are the most ancient group among dicotyledons. The most ancient lineage among monocotyledons leads to modern Liliaceae.
High yield purification of active transcription factor IIIA expressed in E. coli.	Transcription factor IIIA (TFIIIA), a sequence-specific DNA-binding protein from Xenopus laevis, is a zinc finger protein required for transcription of 5S rRNA genes by RNA polymerase III. We describe the purification and characterization of recombinant TFIIIA (recTFIIIA) expressed in E. coli. RecTFIIIA was purified to greater than 95% homogeneity at a yield of 2-3 milligrams per liter of bacterial culture. This purified protein protects the internal control region of a 5S rRNA gene from DNase I digestion, yielding footprints on both strands identical to those produced by the ovarian protein (ovaTFIIIA). Quantitative analysis of binding data from gel retardation assays yielded a KD of about 0.4 nM for TFIIIA from either source. Using a quantitative TFIIIA-dependent in vitro transcription assay, we found that recTFIIIA is equivalent to ovaTFIIIA in supporting transcription of 5S rRNA genes. We conclude that recTFIIIA is functionally indistinguishable from the protein purified from Xenopus ovaries, and can be readily obtained in pure form and large quantity.
Structural polymorphism in the major groove of a 5S RNA gene complements the zinc finger domains of transcription factor IIIA.	Metal complexes that bind to DNA on the basis of shape-selection have been used to map the conformational features of the DNA binding site for transcription factor IIIA. Conformationally distinct segments are detected on the 5S rRNA gene that correspond closely to the binding sites identified for the individual zinc finger domains of the protein. The local conformations are characterized by a major groove opened because of a change in base pair inclination and/or displacement at a central 5'-pyrimidine-purine-3' step, flanked by a widened minor groove, as would arise at the junctions between alternating B- and A-like DNA segments. Docking experiments with a consensus structure of a zinc finger reveal that the mixed A-B binding site accommodates the peptide domain better than either canonical B- or A-DNA helices. The close structural matching of the conformational variations in the 5S rDNA both to the proposed sites of zinc finger binding and to the shape of an individual zinc finger domain points to DNA structural polymorphism as providing an important determinant in recognition. In particular, shape selection in the 5' half of the internal control region may orient the multiple finger domains.
Two different size classes of 5S rDNA units coexisting in the same tandem array in the razor clam Ensis macha: is this region suitable for phylogeographic studies?	For a study of 5S ribosomal genes (rDNA) in the razor clam Ensis macha, the 5S rDNA region was amplified and sequenced. Two variants, so-called type I or short repeat (approximately 430 bp) and type II or long repeat (approximately 735 bp), appeared to be the main components of the 5S rDNA of this species. Their spacers differed markedly, both in length and nucleotide composition. The organization of the two variants was investigated by amplifying the genomic DNA with primers based on the sequence of the type I and type II spacers. PCR amplification products with primers EMLbF and EMSbR showed that the long and short repeats are associated within the same tandem array, suggesting an intermixed arrangement of both spacers. Nevertheless, amplifications carried out with inverse primers EMSinvF/R and EMLinvF/R revealed that some short and long repeats are contiguous in the same tandem array. This is the first report of the coexistence of two variable spacers in the same tandem array in bivalve mollusks.
Transcription complex disruption caused by a transition in chromatin structure.	Chromatin structure is known to influence class III gene expression in vitro. We describe the active transcription of Xenopus class III genes following replication and assembly into chromatin by using Xenopus egg extracts. Changes in the structure of this active chromatin dependent on the presence of exogeneous Mg2+ ATP or on the addition of a mixture of histones H2A and H2B are shown to lead to the selective repression of Xenopus 5S RNA genes. Preexisting transcription complexes on 5S DNA are disrupted following the reorganization of a "disordered" histone-DNA complex into a structure consisting of physiologically spaced nucleosomes. Thus, we demonstrate that chromatin structural transitions can have dominant and specific effects on transcription.
Mutations in 5S DNA and 5S RNA have different effects on the binding of Xenopus transcription factor IIIA.	The effects on TFIIIA binding affinity of a series of substitution mutations in the Xenopus laevis oocyte 5S RNA gene were quantified. These data indicate that TFIIIA binds specifically to 5S DNA by forming sequence-specific contacts with three discrete sites located within the classical A and C boxes and the intermediate element of the internal control region. Substitution of the nucleotide sequence at any of the three sites significantly reduces TFIIIA binding affinity, with a 100-fold reduction observed for substitutions in the box C subregion. These results are consistent with a direct interaction of TFIIIA with specific base pairs within the major groove of the DNA. A comparison of the TFIIIA binding data for the same mutations expressed in 5S RNA indicates that the protein does not make any strong sequence-specific contacts with the RNA. Although the protein footprinting sites on the 5S DNA and 5S RNA are coincident, nucleotide substitutions in 5S RNA which moderately reduce TFIIIA binding affinity do not correspond at all to the three specific TFIIIA interaction sites within the gene. The implications of these results for models which attempt to reconcile the DNA and RNA binding activities of TFIIIA by proposing a common structural motif for the two nucleic acids are discussed.
Involvement of "hinge" nucleotides of Xenopus laevis 5 S rRNA in the RNA structural organization and in the binding of transcription factor TFIIIA.	Nucleotides in the bifurcation region of the 5 S rRNA, the junction of the three helical domains, play a central role in determining the coaxial stacking interactions and tertiary structure of the RNA. We have used site-directed mutagenesis of Xenopus laevis oocyte 5 S rRNA to make all possible nucleotide substitutions at three positions in loop A (10, 11 and 13) and at the G66.U109 base-pair at the beginning of helix V. Certain double point mutations were constructed to ascertain the relationship between loop A nucleotides and the G.U base-pair. The importance of the size of the bifurcation region was tested by the creation of a single nucleotide deletion mutant and two single nucleotide insertion mutants. The effects of these mutations on the structure and function of the 5 S rRNA were determined by solution structure probing of approximately half of the mutants with chemical reagents, and by measuring the relative binding affinity of each mutant for transcription factor TFIIIA. Proposed structural rearrangements in the bifurcation region were tested by using a graphic modeling method combining stereochemical constraints and chemical reactivity data. From this work, several insights were obtained into the general problem of helix stacking and RNA folding at complex bifurcation regions. None of the mutations caused an alteration of the coaxial stacking of helix V on helix II proposed for the wild-type 5 S rRNA. However, the formation of a Watson-Crick pair between nucleotide 13 of loop A and nucleotide 66 at the top of helix V does cause a destabilization of the proximal part of this helix. Also, nucleotide 109 at the top of helix V will preferentially pair with nucleotide 10 of loop A rather than nucleotide 66 when both possibilities are provided, without affecting the stability of helix V, even though the G.U pair is disrupted. The effects of these mutations on TFIIIA binding indicate that the bifurcation region is critical for protein recognition. One important feature of the relationship between 5 S rRNA structure and TFIIIA recognition resulting from this study was the observation that any mutation that constrains the bifurcation loop results in a reduced affinity of the RNA for TFIIIA, unless it is compensated for by an increased flexibility elsewhere.
Structure of the yeast ribosomal 5 S RNA-binding protein YL3.	A gene coding for the 5 S rRNA-binding protein (YL3) in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) was isolated using a polymerase chain reaction-amplified gene probe. The DNA sequence contains no introns and codes for a 297 amino acid (Mr = 33,741) protein. Although the protein is just 1 residue longer than in rat, unlike the high sequence homology in the 5 S rRNAs from the same organisms, only about 45% of the amino acid residues are conserved with surprisingly little homology in the carboxyl-terminal end. Nevertheless, comparative studies indicate that a number of structural features are conserved including small repeats in the primary structure and a number of helical estimates in the higher order structure. One of the sequence repeats also appears to be present in the carboxyl-terminal end of the eukaryotic transcription factor TFIIIA suggesting an evolutionary relationship in these 5 S RNA-binding proteins.
Sequence of the 5S rRNA gene and organization of ribosomal RNA operons in Streptomyces rimosus.	One Streptomyces rimosus ribosomal RNA gene set (rrnF) was cloned into pBR322 as 8.8 kilobase-pairs BamHI fragment and sequence of the 3' end of the operon with 5S rRNA gene was determined. 5S rRNA gene is 120 bp long and highly homologous with two other known 5S rRNA from Streptomyces. Remarkable sequence homology with S. ambofaciens rrnD operon exists in the 3' noncoding regions, including first transcription termination signal. S. rimosus rrnF operon contains second putative terminator which is absent in S. ambofaciens rrnD operon. tRNA genes were not found at the 3' end of rrnF operon. The number of rRNA operons in S. rimosus was defined by Southern hybridization analysis. S. rimosus possess six rRNA operons and all rRNA operons contain identical PstI fragment of 4.5 kb. rRNA genes in operons are separated by short intergenic regions and organized in the order 16S-23S-5S. Efforts to connect tRNA genes with S. rimosus rRNA operons were unsuccessful.
Structural studies on site-directed mutants of domain 3 of Xenopus laevis oocyte 5 S ribosomal RNA.	Base substitutions have been introduced into the highly conserved sequences of loops D and E within domain 3 of Xenopus laevis oocyte 5 S rRNA. The effects of these mutations on the solution structure of this 5 S rRNA have been studied by means of probing with nucleases, and with chemical reagents under native and semi-denaturing conditions. The data obtained with these mutants support the graphic model of Xenopus oocyte 5 S rRNA proposed by Westhof et al. In particular, our results rule out the existence of long-range base-pairing interactions between loop C and either loop D or loop E. The data also confirm that loops D and E in the wild-type 5 S RNA adopt unusual secondary structures and illustrate the importance of nucleotide sequence in the formation of intrinsic local loop conformations via non-canonical base-pairs and specific base-phosphate contacts. Consistent with this conclusion is our observation that the domain 3 fragment of Xenopus oocyte 5 S rRNA adopts the same conformation as the corresponding region in the full-length 5 S rRNA.
Compilation of 5S rRNA and 5S rRNA gene sequences.	This is an update for the 5S rRNA sequences of the BERLIN RNA DATABANK last published in 1990 (1). The new entry consists of 25 eubacterial and 2 eukaryotic 5S rRNA sequences and 10 plant 5S rRNA pseudogenes (Table 1). Thus the BERLIN RNA DATABANK contains as of February 1, 1991 the 5S rRNA sequences of 44 archaebacteria, 292 eubacteria, 20 plastids, 6 mitochondria, 321 eukaryotes and 21 eukaryotic pseudogenes. The BERLIN RNA DATABANK uses the format of the EMBL Nucleotide Sequence Data Library complemented by a Sequence Alignment (SA) field including secondary structure information.
A chicken red cell inhibitor of transcription associated with the terminally differentiated state.	When a red cell nuclear extract (RCE) from adult chickens was injected into Xenopus oocytes along with the chicken beta globin gene, transcript levels were dramatically reduced compared to injection of DNA alone. The inhibitory action of the RCE was not specific to the beta globin gene since the Herpes thymidine kinase and Xenopus 5S RNA gene transcript levels were similarly reduced. Transcriptional repression was observed even after passage of the RCE through oocyte cytoplasm to the nucleus. The inhibitory activity binds to DNA cellulose, which suggests that the inhibitor either binds to DNA or associates with DNA-binding proteins. Nuclease digestion of the chromatin assembled on injected beta globin DNA revealed that inhibition was not associated with local changes in chromatin structure. Extracts from 9-d chicken embryonic erythroid cells, in which the endogenous beta globin gene is actively expressed, did not inhibit transcription. The inhibitory activity is, therefore, restricted to transcriptionally quiescent, adult erythrocytes. Since the inhibitory effects were seen with both polymerase II and III directed genes, we speculate that the activity may be part of the extreme transcriptional repression which occurs in the terminally differentiated erythrocyte.
Chromosome mapping of H1 histone and 5S rRNA gene clusters in three species of Astyanax (Teleostei, Characiformes).	We report here on the physical mapping of the H1 histone genes (hisDNA) and the 5S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) in 3 Neotropical fish species of the genus Astyanax(A. altiparanae, A. bockmanni and A. fasciatus) and the comparative analysis of the chromosomes bearing these genes. Nucleotide analyses by sequencing of both genes were also performed. The distribution of the H1 histone genes was more conserved than that of the rRNA genes, since these were always located in the pericentromeric regions of 2 chromosome pairs. 5S rDNA was found on one of the pairs that presented an H1 histone cluster; this seems to be a conserved chromosomal feature of the genus Astyanax. In addition, individuals of A. bockmanni and A. fasciatus showed clusters of 5S rDNA on 1 pair of acrocentric chromosomes, not found in A. altiparanae. The results obtained by chromosome mapping as well as by sequencing of both genes showed that A.bockmanni is more closely related to A. fasciatus than to A. altiparanae. The results allow the characterization of cytogenetic markers for improved elucidation of the processes involved in karyotype differentiation of fish genomes.
Maf1 regulation: a model of signal transduction inside the nucleus.	RNA polymerase III (Pol III) is responsible for the synthesis of 5S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and transfer RNAs (tRNAs) essential for protein synthesis and cell growth. Pol III is tightly controlled by growth signals such as nutrients and deregulation of Pol III-dependent transcription can lead to oncogenic transformation. In response to extracellular stimuli, the target of rapamycin complex 1 (TORC1) regulates Pol III activity through Maf1, a key conserved Pol III repressor. Recent studies have unraveled intricate mechanisms by which Maf1 activity is controlled at multiple levels, including nuclear transport and phoshorylation at specific chromatin loci. These studies suggest an emerging mode of gene regulation by extracellular signals inside the nucleus.
Evolutionary dynamics of 5S rDNA location in acridid grasshoppers and its relationship with H3 histone gene and 45S rDNA location.	We analyze the chromosomal location of 5S rDNA clusters in 29 species of grasshoppers belonging to the family Acrididae. There was extensive variation among species for the number and location of 5S rDNA sites. Out of 148 sites detected, 75% were proximally located, 21.6% were interstitial, and only 3.4% were distal. The number of 5S rDNA sites per species varied from a single chromosome pair (in six species) to all chromosome pairs (in five species), with a range of intermediate situations. Thirteen chromosomes from eight species carried two 5S rDNA clusters. At intraspecific level, differences among populations were detected in Eyprepocnemis plorans, and some heteromorphisms have also been observed in some species. Double FISH for 5S rDNA and H3 histone gene DNA, performed on 17 of these 29 species, revealed that both markers are sometimes placed in a same chromosome but at different location, whereas they appeared to co-localize in five species (Calliptamus barbarus, Heteracris adpersa, Aiolopus strepens, Oedipoda charpentieri and O. coerulescens). Double fiber-FISH in A. strepens and O. coerulescens showed that the two DNAs are closely interspersed with variable relative amounts of both classes of DNA. Finally, no correlation was observed between the number of 5S and 45S rDNA clusters in 23 species where this information was available. These results are discussed in the light of possible mechanisms of spread that led to the extensive variation in the number of clusters observed for both rDNA types in acridid grasshoppers.
Molecular similarities and differences between Trichinella spp., isolated from canine skeletal muscle in Zacatecas, Mexico.	Four different isolates of Trichinella spp. (Z1, Z2, Z3, and Z4) obtained from the skeletal muscle of street dogs in the state of Zacatecas, Mexico were serial passaged in Wistar rats; infective larvae from the skeletal muscle of the rats were collected and frozen in liquid nitrogen. After centrifugation, DNA was extracted and the 5SRNAr and IsRNAr genes were amplified. The isolates were identified by the size of the amplified products from the 5SRNAr and IsRNAr genes (750 and 290 bp, respectively). The amplicons obtained by PCR were sequenced, aligned, and compared to the reference strain Trichinella spiralis MSUS/MEX/91//EM isolated from pigs. Based on our results, we determined that the Trichinella isolates from canine (Z1-Z4) belonged to the T. spiralis species and had 83% identity with the reference strain. The phylogenetic tree constructed from the sequences showed differences between the isolates from pig and dog. These genetic differences may be related to the immune response of the host or the pathogenicity of the isolates. Therefore, these findings have important epidemiological and public health implications.
Organization and variation analysis of 5S rDNA in different ploidy-level hybrids of red crucian carp  topmouth culter.	Through distant crossing, diploid, triploid and tetraploid hybrids of red crucian carp (Carassius auratus red var., RCC, Cyprininae, 2n = 100)  topmouth culter (Erythroculter ilishaeformis Bleeker, TC, Cultrinae, 2n = 48) were successfully produced. Diploid hybrids possessed 74 chromosomes with one set from RCC and one set from TC; triploid hybrids harbored 124 chromosomes with two sets from RCC and one set from TC; tetraploid hybrids had 148 chromosomes with two sets from RCC and two sets from TC. The 5S rDNA of the three different ploidy-level hybrids and their parents were sequenced and analyzed. There were three monomeric 5S rDNA classes (designated class I: 203 bp; class II: 340 bp; and class III: 477 bp) in RCC and two monomeric 5S rDNA classes (designated class IV: 188 bp, and class V: 286 bp) in TC. In the hybrid offspring, diploid hybrids inherited three 5S rDNA classes from their female parent (RCC) and only class IV from their male parent (TC). Triploid hybrids inherited class II and class III from their female parent (RCC) and class IV from their male parent (TC). Tetraploid hybrids gained class II and class III from their female parent (RCC), and generated a new 5S rDNA sequence (designated class I-N). The specific paternal 5S rDNA sequence of class V was not found in the hybrid offspring. Sequence analysis of 5S rDNA revealed the influence of hybridization and polyploidization on the organization and variation of 5S rDNA in fish. This is the first report on the coexistence in vertebrates of viable diploid, triploid and tetraploid hybrids produced by crossing parents with different chromosome numbers, and these new hybrids are novel specimens for studying the genomic variation in the first generation of interspecific hybrids, which has significance for evolution and fish genetics.
DNA-methylation dependent regulation of embryo-specific 5S ribosomal DNA cluster transcription in adult tissues of sea urchin Paracentrotus lividus.	We have previously reported a molecular and cytogenetic characterization of three different 5S rDNA clusters in the sea urchin Paracentrotus lividus and recently, demonstrated the presence of high heterogeneity in functional 5S rRNA. In this paper, we show some important distinctive data on 5S rRNA transcription for this organism. Using single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis, we demonstrate the existence of two classes of 5S rRNA, one which is embryo-specific and encoded by the smallest (700 bp) cluster and the other which is expressed at every stage and encoded by longer clusters (900 and 950 bp). We also demonstrate that the embryo-specific class of 5S rRNA is expressed in oocytes and embryonic stages and is silenced in adult tissue and that this phenomenon appears to be due exclusively to DNA methylation, as indicated by sensitivity to 5-azacytidine, unlike Xenopus where this mechanism is necessary but not sufficient to maintain the silenced status.
Chromosomal organization of repetitive DNA in Sorubim lima (Teleostei; Pimelodidae).	Interspaced repetitive DNA elements and segmental duplications have been extensively analyzed in fishes through physical chromosome mapping methods, providing a better comprehension of the structure and organization of the genome of this group. In order to contribute to this scenario, a sequence integration study of different classes of repetitive DNA with high resolution physical chromosome mapping was performed in Sorubim lima. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and fiber-FISH with probes for 18S and 5S rRNA genes, TTAGGGn sequence and non-LTR retrotransposon family members Rex1, Rex3 and Rex6 showed that non-LTR elements may be dispersed in the chromosome set with relative concentration in heterochromatic regions, as shown by Rex1, or may even intercalate in 45S rDNA and the telomeric sequence, as found for Rex3 and Rex6. These results reinforce the presence of preferential regions of retroelement accumulation and contribute to a better understanding of the genomic organization of some repetitive DNA classes in fishes.
Comet-FISH for the evaluation of plant DNA damage after mutagenic treatments.	The aim of this study was to perform a comparative investigation of the actions of three mutagens that are widely used in plant mutagenesis using the comet-FISH technique. The comet-FISH technique was used for the analysis of DNA damage and the kinetics of repair within specific DNA sequences. FISH with rDNA and telomeric/centromeric DNA probes was applied to comets that were obtained from an alkaline/neutral comet assay. Migration within specific DNA sequences was analysed after treatment with two chemical mutagens-maleic hydrazide (MH) and N-nitroso-N-methylurea (MNU), and -rays. Barley was used as a model plant in this study. The possible utility of specific DNA sequences in a comparative assessment of the distribution of DNA damage within a plant genome was evaluated. This study proved that the comet-FISH technique is suitable for a detailed quantification of DNA damage and repair within specific DNA sequences in plant mutagenesis. The analysis of FISH signals demonstrated that the involvement of specific DNA sequences in DNA damage was different and was dependent on the mutagen used. We showed that 5S rDNA and telomeric DNA sequences are more sensitive to mutagenic treatment, which was expressed by a stronger fragmentation and migration in comparison to the other probes used in the study. We found that 5S rDNA and telomeric DNA probes are more suitable for testing the genotoxicity of environmental factors. A comparison of the involvement of specific chromosome domains in direct DNA breakage/repair and in chromosome aberration formation after mutagen treatment indicates the compatibility of the results. 
Evidence for the evolutionary origin of goldfish derived from the distant crossing of red crucian carp  common carp.	Distant hybridization can generate transgressive hybrid phenotypes that lead to the formation of new populations or species with increased genetic variation. In this study, we produced an experimental hybrid goldfish (EG) by distant crossing of red crucian carp (Carassius auratus)common carp (Cyprinus carpio) followed by gynogenesis.
An approach to study the evolution of the Drosophila 5S ribosomal genes using P-element transformation.	The P-element-mediated gene transfer system was used to introduce Drosophila teissieri 5S genes into the Drosophila melanogaster genome. Eight transformed D. melanogaster strains that carry D. teissieri 5S mini-clusters consisting of 9-21 adjacent 5S units were characterized. No genetic exchanges between D. melanogaster and D. teissieri 5S clusters were detected over a 2-year survey of the eight strains. The occurrence of small rearrangements within the D. melanogaster 5S cluster was demonstrated in one of the transformed strains.
The 5S rRNA-histone repeat in the crustacean Artemia: structure, polymorphism and variation of the 5S rRNA segment in different populations.	5S rRNA genes are linked to the histone genes in the 13 populations of the crustacean Artemia that we have studied. In all cases, two types of repeat units are found. Southern blot analysis of all populations shows that they can be grouped into three classes: a) American bisexuals; b) Eurasian bisexuals, and c) parthenogenetic organisms (all from Eurasia). Restriction analysis of a bisexual population from San Francisco Bay shows that the two repeat units are of 9.0 and 8.5 kb (with minor heterogeneities of restriction sites). In parthenogenetic organisms, the two repeat units are of approximately 12 kb. Sequencing data from the region of the 5S rRNA from the San Francisco Bay population, shows that in both types of units, the single 5S rRNA gene (315 bp in length), is located 430 bp downstream the 3' regulatory sequences of the H2A gene, the last gene in the histone cluster. We have isolated three clones that contain 5S rRNA sequences. Two of them (one from an American bisexual and the other from a parthenogenetic population) contain histone and 5S rRNA genes, both with the same transcriptional polarity. The third clone, lacking histone genes, is likely to be an orphon derived from the parthenogenetic population.
Nucleotide sequences of 5S rRNA genes of polyploid species of wheat and Aegilops species]	Primary structures of 5S rRNA genes and of non-transcribed spacers between them were determined in families of 5S DNA repeats 420 and 500 b.p. long in 8 wheat and Aegilops species. The high conservatism of sequences coding for 5S rRNA, 3'- and 5'-ends of non-transcribed spacers was shown not to depend on the evolutional position, ploidy level and genomic composition of species. The activity of transcription of 5S rRNA cloned genes was determined in vitro. The functional heterogeneity was revealed in each family of repeats due to the existence of exchanges of separate nucleotides within the internal transcription control region. A greater deficiency of CpG dinucleotide was revealed in 5S rRNA genes than in non-transcribed spacers.
The Na+-motive terminal oxidase activity in an alkalo- and halo-tolerant Bacillus.	An alkalo- and halo-tolerant aerobic microorganism has been isolated which, according to microbiological analysis data and the ribosomal 5S RNA sequence, is a Bacillus similar, but not identical, to B. licheniformis and B. subtilis. The microorganism, called Bacillus FTU, proved to be resistant to the protonophorous uncoupler carbonylcyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP). The fast growth of Bacillus FTU in the presence of CCCP was shown to require a high Na+ concentration in the medium. A procedure was developed to exhaust endogenous respiratory substrates in Bacillus FTU cells so that fast oxygen consumption by the cells was observed only when an exogenous respiratory substrate was added. The exhausted cells were found to oxidize ascorbate in the presence of N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine (TMPD) in a cyanide-sensitive fashion. The ascorbate oxidation was coupled to the uphill Na+ extrusion which was stimulated by CCCP and a penetrating weak base, diethylamine, as well as by valinomycin with or without diethylamine. Operation of the Bacillus FTU terminal oxidase resulted in the generation of a delta psi which, in the Na+ medium, was slightly decreased by CCCP and strongly decreased by CCCP + diethylamine. In the K+ medium, CCCP discharged delta psi even without diethylamine. Ascorbate oxidation was competent in ATP synthesis which was resistant to CCCP in the Na+ medium and sensitive to CCCP in the K+ medium as if Na+- and H+-coupled oxidative phosphorylations were operative in the Na+ and K+ media, respectively. Inside-out subcellular vesicles of Bacillus FTU were found to be competent in the Na+ uptake supported by oxidation of ascorbate + TMPD or diaminodurene. CCCP or valinomycin + K+ increased the Na+ uptake very strongly. The process was completely inhibited by cyanide or monensin, the former, but not the latter, being inhibitory for respiration. The data obtained indicate that in Bacillus FTU there is not only H+-motive but also Na+-motive terminal oxidase activity.
A 3' exonuclease activity degrades the pseudogene 5S RNA transcript and processes the major oocyte 5S RNA transcript in Xenopus oocytes.	Transcription of the major oocyte 5S RNA gene (o) and pseudogene (psi) of Xenopus laevis yields different RNAs with three different homologous systems: oocyte microinjection, whole oocyte extract, and fractionated TFIIIA + TFIIIB + TFIIIC components. Those peculiar results are caused by a 3' RNA exonuclease activity, which is inhibited in the oocyte extract, that rapidly degrades the pseudogene 5S RNA but does not degrade as readily the chimeric RNA transcripts generated by HindIII-truncated 5S RNA pseudogenes. The same, or a similar, RNase activity processes the 130- and the 142-base-long transcripts of the major oocyte 5S RNA gene into mature 120-base-long 5S RNA. We performed site-specific mutagenesis on the somatic 5S RNA gene and changed specific nucleotides on the somatic 5S RNA. These studies indicated that the structure that confers stability to the 5S RNA in vivo and in vitro is the 9-bp helix formed in 5S RNA, but not in psi 5S RNA, by the complementary 5' and 3' ends of the molecule.
A portable signal causing faithful DNA methylation de novo in Neurospora crassa.	Methylation of cytosine residues in eukaryotic DNA is common, but poorly understood. Typically several percent of the cytosines are methylated; however, it is unclear what governs which sequences eventually become modified. Neurospora crassa DNA containing the "zeta-eta" (zeta-eta) region, which is a region of unusually heavy methylation, was tested for its ability to direct DNA methylation de novo. DNA stripped of its methylation by propagation in Escherichia coli was reintroduced into Neurospora crassa by transformation. The zeta-eta region reproducibly became "properly" methylated whether inserted at its native chromosomal position or at ectopic sites. Adjacent Neurospora and bacterial sequences in the transforming DNA rarely became methylated. A model is presented that accounts for position-independent faithful methylation as observed in the zeta-eta region, as well as position-dependent methylation, as occasionally observed, especially with sequences not native to Neurospora.
Transcription of Neurospora crassa 5 S rRNA genes requires a TATA box and three internal elements.	The sequences required for transcription of Neurospora crassa 5S rRNA genes have been defined using a comprehensive set of deletion and substitution mutations introduced into two cloned genes. An upstream TATA box (consensus TCATAGA) located at -29 to -24, and three internal regions (D, A and C) localized to +19 to +30, +44 to +57 and +73 to +103, respectively, are absolutely required for transcription in vitro. The TATA box fixes the start point of transcription. The A and C regions correspond to the Xenopus 5S gene internal control region but the D region has no Xenopus homologue. The spacing of the three internal elements is very strict but the position of the TATA box can be varied by up to 16 base-pairs.
Structure and evolution of the 4.5-5S ribosomal RNA intergenic region from Glycine max (soya bean).	The nucleotide sequence for the 4.5-5S ribosomal DNA region from the chloroplastids of soya beans was determined as the basis of further comparative studies on the structure and evolution of this intergenic region. Comparisons with other plant sequences as well as equivalent sequences in eubacteria suggest that the longer internal transcribed spacer regions of plants have evolved, at least in part, by DNA sequence duplications and that the presence of the 4.5S rRNA in chloroplast may result from the accidental acquisition of a RNA maturation site during the evolution of longer internal transcribed spacer regions. Estimates of the secondary structures also indicate only a very limited retention of structural features and suggest that the primary role of the intergenic sequences may be to bring processed sites into close proximity.
Structure of 5S rRNA in actinomycetes and relatives and evolution of eubacteria.	The primary structure of 5S ribosomal RNA has been determined in five species belonging to the genus Mycobacterium and in Micrococcus luteus. The sequences of 5S RNAs from Actinomycetes and relatives point to the existence in this taxon of a bulge on the helix that joins the termini of the molecule. An attempt was made to reconstruct bacterial evolution from a sequence dissimilarity matrix based on 142 eubacterial 5S RNA sequences and corrected for multiple mutation. The algorithm is based on weighted pairwise clustering, and incorporates a correction for divergent mutation rates, as derived by comparison of sequence dissimilarities with an external reference group of eukaryotic 5S RNAs. The resulting tree is compared with the eubacterial phylogeny built on 16S rRNA catalog comparison. The bacteria for which the 5S RNA sequence is known form a number of clusters also discernible in the 16S rRNA phylogeny. However, the branching pattern leading to these clusters shows some notable discrepancies with the aforementioned phylogeny.
Finger proteins and DNA-specific recognition: distinct patterns of conserved amino acids suggest different evolutionary modes.	Finger proteins, the first example of which was Xenopus TFIIIA, share Zn2+ finger-like folded domains capable of binding to nucleic acids. A large number of this type of protein have been characterised from diverse organisms, indicating a wide evolutionary spread of the DNA-binding fingers. At least two classes of finger proteins may be distinguished. Class I proteins contain variable numbers of the tandemly repeating TFIIIA-like finger motif, (Y/F-X-C-X2-4-C-X3-F-X5-L-X2-H-X3-H). Class II finger proteins display a single (C-X2-C-X13-C-X2-C) motif and a facultative second putative finger. The relation between the structure of finger proteins and their recognised DNA sequences is discussed.
An N-terminally fused Xenopus transcription factor IIIA synthesized in Escherichia coli is biologically active.	A 1.5-kilobase DNA fragment containing the Xenopus transcription factor IIIA (TFIIIA) gene was inserted into the prokaryotic expression vector pIN-III(A) containing the lpp/lac promoter. The recombinant DNA was introduced into Escherichia coli K-12 strain SB221. The expression TFIIIA gene was induced by isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside, which resulted in the synthesis of a recombinant TFIIIA with an extra 17 amino acids fused to its N terminus as predicted from the nucleotide sequence. The engineered gene product, purified to at least 90% homogeneity, retained its binding affinity to the intragenic control region of the 5 S RNA gene, as well as its activity to stimulate 5 S RNA gene transcription in vitro.
In vitro transcripts of a yeast variant 5 S rRNA gene exhibit alterations in 3'-end processing and protein binding.	When a yeast 5 S rRNA gene with a variant 3'-terminal nucleotide sequence was transcribed in a homologous cell-free system, primary transcripts that were shorter, more heterogeneous in length and much more resistant to processing than pre-5 S rRNA from the major "repeat" 5 S rRNA gene were produced. After 3'-end processing, variant 5 S rRNA was one nucleotide shorter than mature repeat 5 S rRNA and was bound much less strongly to ribosomal protein YL3. The stable variant pre-5 S rRNA appeared to bind another, unidentified protein. The formation of this presumptive ribonucleoprotein complex was disrupted by (Up)4UOH, suggesting that it may contain a yeast analog of the mammalian La protein.
Effects of mutation on the downfield proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of the 5S RNA of Escherichia coli.	The imino proton spectra of several mutants of the 5S RNA of Escherichia coli are compared with that of the wild type. Three of the variants discussed are point mutations, and the fourth is a deletion mutant lacking bases 11-69 of the parent sequence, all obtained by site-directed mutagenesis techniques. The spectroscopic effects of mutation are limited in all cases, and the differences between normal and mutant spectra can be used to make or confirm the assignments of resonances. Several new assignments in the 5S spectrum are reported. Spectroscopic differences due to sequence differences permit the products of single genes within the 5S gene family to be distinguished and their fates followed by NMR.
Primary structure of the 5S rRNA gene with shortened non-transcribed spacer in diploid wheat Triticum monococcum L]	Two types of repeated sequences 320 and 510 b. p. long, that hybridize with 32P-5S rRNA, were determined in the genome of diploid wheat Triticum monococcum L. Using pBR327 plasmid, recombinant plasmids pTm5S7 and pTmS12, containing 5S DNA of both types, were constructed. The primary structure of the insertion into plasmid pTm5S7 was determined. The given 5S DNA repeated unit was shown to consist of 327 base pairs and to lack highly diverged sequence between 133 and 214 bases in 3'-flanking region. Eight nucleotide changes in the encoding region, including four changes in the transcription control region were found. Partial or full elimination of 5S DNA repeats were shown in genomes of tetra- and hexaploid wheat species. It was supposed that 5S DNA gene of Triticum monococcum in 327 b. p. repeats should represent a gene with relatively low transcriptional activity due to base changes within the limits of the intragene transcription control region.
Cladistic analysis of ribosomal RNAs--the phylogeny of eukaryotes with respect to the endosymbiotic theory.	A strict cladistic analysis of 5S and 16S rRNA secondary and primary structure confirms particular hypotheses concerning the phylogeny of eukaryotes: plastids of Euglena, green algae and land plants, and the cyanelle of Cyanophora share a specific character and are closely related to cyanobacteria of the Synechococcus-type. Angiosperm mitochondria share specific signatures with the alpha subdivision of rhodobacteria. Cyanophora is a member of the Euglenozoa, the Oomycetes are derived from a group of heterokont algae.
Primary structure of the 5S rRNA gene and its flanking sequences in diploid Aegilops tauschii Coss]	In genome of diploid aegilops A. tauschii (k773) two types of sequences 420 and 510 b. p. long which hybridize with 5S[32P]rRNA were discovered. Using the plasmid pBR327 the recombinant plasmids pAt5S79 and pAt5S91 containing 5S DNA repeats of Ae. tauschii were constructed. The primary structure of 5S rRNA gene and that of intergene spacer cloned in pAt5S79 was determined. In gene region of Ae. tauschii coding for 5S rRNA, as compared with T. aestivum, there were found 3 base substitutions in positions 24, 36 and 37. The homology of spacer sequences is 79.1%. In 5S rRNA gene of Ae. tauschii GC-content is 53.3%, but in a spacer--48.1%. The terminator of transcription in Ae. tauschii includes 15 AT-base pairs with predomination of T-bases in uncoding chain.
The 5S gene internal control region is B-form both free in solution and in a complex with TFIIIA.	Rhodes and Klug have recently proposed that the internal control region of the Xenopus 5S RNA gene adopts an A-type DNA structure in solution. This suggestion was based on a Fourier analysis of both the spacing of DNase I cutting sites and on the distribution of G residues in the DNA sequence. Both revealed a approximately 5.6-5.7-base periodicity which the authors interpreted as a structural repeat every half helical turn of A-type DNA. This contention was strengthened by the finding that a 9-base-pair (bp) double-stranded deoxyoligonucleotide corresponding to residues +81 to +89 of the 5S gene exhibits an A' RNA-like crystal structure. This region of DNA is of special interest as it forms the binding site for the 5S gene-specific transcription factor IIIA (TFIIIA). TFIIIA is a Zn2+-binding protein which interacts with both the internal control region of the gene and the 5S transcript. As base-paired regions of RNA are of the A type, it was reasonable to postulate that 5S DNA might also adopt this conformation. We report here that the circular dichroism (CD) spectrum of a synthetic 54-bp deoxyoligonucleotide corresponding to the TFIIIA binding site is similar to the CD spectrum of B-form DNA in solution. Further, DNA-TFIIIA complexes show an unaltered DNA CD component indicating no gross alteration in DNA structure on protein binding.
Transient activation of oocyte 5S RNA genes in Xenopus embryos by raising the level of the trans-acting factor TFIIIA.	The concentration of the trans-acting factor, TFIIIA, required for the activation of 5S RNA genes in Xenopus can be elevated in developing embryos by injecting a synthetic full-length mRNA into fertilized eggs. 5S RNA genes are activated by the increased factor concentration at the mid-blastula transition through mid-gastrulation. The activated oocyte 5S RNA genes are then inactivated, leaving the TFIIIA-enhanced embryos with the same profile of differential 5S RNA gene activity as control embryos, i.e., synthesizing mainly somatic 5S RNA. Inactivation of the oocyte 5S RNA genes is complete by neurulation and can occur in the absence of DNA replication. We propose that this loss of gene activity is due at least in part to destabilization of transcription complexes that are associated with oocyte 5S RNA genes.
Differential 5S RNA gene expression in vitro.	In extracts derived from activated eggs of Xenopus, oocyte 5S RNA gene transcription complexes are destabilized under conditions where somatic 5S RNA gene transcription complexes are stable. Trans-acting factors in destabilized complexes are in equilibrium with free factors in the extract, and thus transcription becomes dependent upon the concentration of the limiting factor in the extract. By reducing TFIIIA, a limiting factor in the egg extract, a cloned somatic 5S RNA gene is transcribed as much as 400-fold more efficiently than a cloned oocyte 5S RNA gene.
Transcriptionally inactive oocyte-type 5S RNA genes of Xenopus laevis are complexed with TFIIIA in vitro.	An extract from whole oocytes of Xenopus laevis was shown to transcribe somatic-type 5S RNA genes approximately 100-fold more efficiently than oocyte-type 5S RNA genes. This preference was at least 10-fold greater than the preference seen upon microinjection of 5S RNA genes into oocyte nuclei or upon in vitro transcription in an oocyte nuclear extract. The approximately 100-fold transcriptional bias in favor of the somatic-type 5S RNA genes observed in vitro in the whole oocyte extract was similar to the transcriptional bias observed in developing Xenopus embryos. We also showed that in the whole oocyte extract, a promoter-binding protein required for 5S RNA gene transcription, TFIIIA, was bound both to the actively transcribed somatic-type 5S RNA gene and to the largely inactive oocyte-type 5S RNA genes. These findings suggest that the mechanism for the differential expression of 5S RNA genes during Xenopus development does not involve differential binding of TFIIIA to 5S RNA genes.
An alternative protein factor which binds the internal promoter of Xenopus 5S ribosomal RNA genes.	In small oocytes of Xenopus species, two sets of 5S RNA genes, oocyte-type and somatic-type, are fully activated. The 5S RNA transcripts are temporarily stored, half in association with TFIIIA to form a 7S particle, the other half in association with tRNA and two proteins (p48 and p43) to form a 42S particle. It has been established previously that TFIIIA binds to the internal control region of 5S RNA genes and promotes their transcription. Here we show that protein can be translocated from the 42S particles to 5S RNA genes, but only after treatment of the particles with ribonuclease. Nevertheless, once transferred, stable protein-DNA complexes are formed and DNase-protection experiments show that binding is specific to the gene promoter, covering exactly the same sequence as TFIIIA. The DNA-binding protein is identified as p48 which, after isolation by ion-exchange chromatography, will bind to 5S RNA genes in the absence of ribonuclease.
Changing nucleosome positions through modification of the DNA rotational information.	The effects of the rotational information of DNA in determining the in vitro localization of nucleosomal core particles (ncps) have been studied in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae 5S rRNA repeat gene. We have altered the distribution of the phased series of flexibility signals present on this DNA by inserting a 25-bp tract, and we have analyzed the effects of this mutation on the distribution and on the frequencies of ncps, as compared with the wild type and a reference 21-bp insertion mutant. The variation of the standard free energy of nucleosome reconstitution was determined. The results show that the DNA rotational information is a major determinant of ncps positioning, define how many rotationally phased signals are required for the formation of a stable particle, and teach how to modify their distribution through the alteration of the rotational signals.
Structural evolution of the Drosophila 5S ribosomal genes.	We compare the 5S gene structure from nine Drosophila species. New sequence data (5S genes of D. melanogaster, D. mauritiana, D. sechellia, D. yakuba, D. erecta, D. orena, and D. takahashii) and already-published data (5S genes of D. melanogaster, D. simulans, and D. teissieri) are used in these comparisons. We show that four regions within the Drosophila 5S genes display distinct rates of evolution: the coding region (120 bp), the 5'-flanking region (54-55 bp), the 3'-flanking region (21-22 bp), and the internal spacer (149-206 bp). Intra- and interspecific heterogeneity is due mainly to insertions and deletions of 6-17-bp oligomers. These small rearrangements could be generated by fork slippages during replication and could produce rapid sequence divergence in a limited number of steps.
Effects of zinc finger mutations on the nucleic acid binding activities of Xenopus transcription factor IIIA.	Transcription factor IIIA (TFIIIA) is required for the activation of 5S RNA gene transcription as well as the storage of 5s RNA as a 7S ribonucleoprotein particle. Interaction with both nucleic acids is mediated through nine C2H2 zinc fingers. In order to determine amino acid regions necessary for nucleic acid interaction, a series of substitution mutants Xenopus laevis TFIIIA have been constructed and expressed as recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli. The mutant proteins were purified to homogeneity and analyzed for 5S RNA gene and 5S RNA binding activities using a nitrocellulose filter binding assay. All of the mutant TFIIIA proteins retained full 5S RNA binding activity. Substitution of fingers 2, 3, and 4-6 of TFIIIA with zinc finger sequences from other proteins significantly reduced the interaction of the protein with the 5S RNA gene. In contrast, substitution of finger 1 or finger 7 had little effect on the interaction of TFIIIA with the 5S RNA gene. The results of scanning substitution mutagenesis within the first three zinc fingers of TFIIIA suggested that DNA contacts made by the alpha-helical regions of finger 2 and particularly of finger 3 provide the majority of the free energy of the TFIIIA-DNA interaction. Basic amino acids found at the same position within the alpha-helices of fingers 2 and 3 of TFIIIA are required for high-affinity DNA binding activity. The identification of amino acid residues critical for the formation of a TFIIIA-DNA complex contributes to our understanding of zinc finger protein-nucleic acid interactions.
Disruption of reconstituted nucleosomes. The effect of particle concentration, MgCl2 and KCl concentration, the histone tails, and temperature.	We find that reconstituted nucleosome cores containing specific DNA sequences dissociate on dilution. This disruption of histone-DNA contacts leading to the release of free DNA is facilitated by the presence of the core histone tails, MgCl2 (5 mM), KCl (60 mM), and temperatures above 0 degree C. Under reaction conditions that are commonly used to assess trans-acting factor access to nucleosomal DNA, histone-DNA contacts are on the threshold of instability. We demonstrate how dilution of reconstituted nucleosomes containing a TATA box can facilitate TBP access to DNA.
TFIIIA and DNA supercoiling: toward resolving a controversy.	DNA supercoiling in eukaryotes is mediated by the process of chromatin assembly. This process couples the binding and wrapping of DNA around nucleosomal core particles and the enzymatic activity of DNA topoisomerase(s). Kmiec and Worcel (1985) reported that the binding of an RNA polymerase III transcription factor (TFIIIA) could accelerate DNA supercoiling catalysed by a Xenopus laevis cell-free extract. Although the reaction was repeatedly reproduced in the parent laboratory by numerous workers, another laboratory, interested in the molecular biology of TFIIIA, failed to reproduce TFIIIA-mediated supercoiling or gyration. In this review, an attempt is made to transcend personal beliefs and describe the experimental approaches used to clarify this issue. The original variability lay in the amount of endogenous RNA within the cell free extract and the concentrations of MgCl2 used to conduct the experiments.
New insights into calicheamicin-DNA interactions derived from a model nucleosome system.	Using the Xenopus borealis 5S RNA gene, we have identified several new features of the interaction of calicheamicin (CAL), an enediyne antitumor agent, with nucleosomal and naked DNA targets. CAL-mediated DNA damage was generally reduced by incorporation of the DNA into a nucleosome. However, in one instance, the frequency of DNA damage was enhanced in the nucleosome compared to naked DNA. This increase in CAL damage may result from bending-induced changes in the target site, while the association of histone proteins with DNA in the nucleosome may generally reduce the affinity of CAL for its targets by imposing dynamic constraints on the DNA, by altering target structure, or by steric hindrance. One implication of these observations is that new structural features created by incorporation of DNA into chromatin may produce 'hot spots' for CAL-mediated DNA damage not apparent in naked DNA studies. In a second set of experiments, the orientation of CAL at damage sites in naked 5S rDNA was determined. The results suggest that minor groove width per se is not a major determinant of CAL target selection. Our studies support the generality of an oligopurine recognition element, with the additional requirement that the purine tract is interrupted at the 3'-end by a pyrimidine(s). To account for these observations, we propose a model in which CAL recognizes the unique structural and dynamic features associated with the 3'-end of an oligopurine tract. Finally, we conclude that the dyad axis of pseudosymmetry of the 5S rRNA gene nucleosome cannot be determined with any degree of certainty. This places significant limitations on the interpretation of results from the study of drug-DNA interactions with reconstituted nucleosomes.
Trypanosoma cruzi ribosomal RNA genes: a review.	Our research work group has been interested in the study of the ribosomal RNA and 5S gene systems from Trypanosoma cruzi. Our contributions span from the general description of a multifragmented molecular system, to the sequence analysis of some ribosomal RNA coding regions. From the latter, we have constructed phylogenetic trees of the Trypanosomatidae family, and our data indicate that the molecular inferences do not sustain the traditional classification of these species. Our published findings are here reviewed along with recent unpublished observations of ribosomal RNA and 5S gene structures.
Organization of the 18S, 5S, 4S rRNA genes and the tRNA-like repeat in the mitochondrial genomes of three lupin species.	Southern blots of mitochondrial (mt) DNAs of three Lupinus species cleaved with three restriction enzymes were probed with Lupinus luteus mtDNA fragments containing 18S, 5S rRNA genes or a tRNA-like repeat. Comparison of the number of hybridizing bands and their intensity suggested that the mt 18S and 5S rRNA genes occur mostly in one copy in the genomes of three lupin species. The exception concerned the Lupinus angustifolius 5S rRNA gene showing two hybridizing bands of unequal intensity. The results of hybridization of the lupin mitochondrial genomes with a probe specific for the Lupinus luteus tRNA-like repeat pointed to the presence of such a repeat in other parts of the genomes besides the vicinity of the 18S rRNA gene. Northern hybridization analysis showed the presence of 18S, 5S and tRNA-like repeat transcripts similar in size in all lupin species.
How many 5S rRNA genes and pseudogenes are there in Aspergillus nidulans?	We have estimated the number of 5S rRNA genes in Aspergillus nidulans using two-dimensional agarose gel electrophoresis and hybridization to appropriate probes, representing the 5'-halves, the 3'-halves of the 5S rRNA sequence and a sequence found at the 3'-end of all known A. nidulans pseudogenes (block C). We have found 23 5S rRNA genes, 15 pseudogenes consisting of the 5'-half of the 5S rRNA sequence (of which 3 are flanked by block C) and 12 copies of block C which do not seem to be in the vicinity of 5S rRNA sequences. This number of genes is much lower than our earlier estimates, and makes our previously analyzed sample of 9 sequenced genes and 3 pseudogenes much more representative.
Molecular taxonomy of the yeasts.	The term 'yeast' is often taken as a synonym for Saccharomyces cerevisiae, but the phylogenetic diversity of yeasts is illustrated by their assignment to two taxonomic classes of fungi, the ascomycetes and the basidiomycetes. Subdivision of taxa within their respective classes is usually made from comparisons of morphological and physiological features whose genetic basis is often unknown. Application of molecular comparisons to questions in yeast classification offers an unprecedented opportunity to re-evaluate current taxonomic schemes from the perspective of quantitative genetic differences. This review examines the impact of molecular comparisons, notably rRNA/rDNA sequence divergence, on the current phenotypically defined classification of yeasts. Principal findings include: 1) budding ascomycetous yeasts are monophyletic and represent a sister group to the filamentous ascomycetes, 2) fission yeasts are ancestral to budding and filamentous ascomycetes, 3) the molecular phylogeny of basidiomycetous yeasts is generally congruent with type of hyphal septum, presence or absence of teliospores in the sexual state, and occurrence of cellular xylose.
Chromosomal mapping of mouse 5S rRNA genes by direct R-banding fluorescence in situ hybridization.	The mouse 5S rRNA gene was mapped by direct R-banding fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with biotinylated probes. Two genomic fragments amplified by PCR from total genomic DNA of BALB/c mice and Mus spretus, a 0.16-kb fragment that included the 121-bp 5S rRNA gene and a 1.6-kb fragment that included the whole spacer region, were used for chromosomal mapping of the 5S rRNA gene. Both fragments hybridized to a single locus on a pair of autosomal chromosomes of BALB/c mice. The major cluster of mouse 5S rRNA genes was assigned to the most terminal R-negative to R-positive bands of the E region of mouse Chromosome 8, which is homologous to the linkage of the 5S rRNA gene on the long arm of human chromosome 1. The location of the 5S rRNA gene was mapped in five laboratory strains, in wild mice of six Mus musculus subspecies (domesticus, brevirostris, musculus, bactrianus, castaneus, and molossinus) derived from 10 separate localities, and in four different Mus species (spretus, hortulanus, spicilegus, and caroli), using FISH. The 5S rRNA cluster mapped to the same position on the chromosomes of all mouse species and subspecies studied. These results suggest that the location of the mouse 5S rRNA gene on the distal telomeric region of Chromosome 8 is evolutionarily conserved. In comparison, the chromosomal assignments of centromeric 18S-28S rRNA genes are highly variable among the different M. musculus subspecies and Mus species.
Physical mapping of 5S rDNA loci by direct-cloned biotinylated probes in barley chromosomes.	5S rDNA loci have been mapped on barley chromosomes by in situ hybridization using five reciprocal translocation lines. Two kinds of DNA probes covering either the 5S rDNA coding region or the 5S rDNA coding and flanking noncoding regions were used. They were prepared by direct cloning from interphase nuclei and simultaneous direct labeling in PCR. Four 5S rDNA loci were detected in a haploid genome by the 5S rDNA coding region, whereas in addition, the four or six 5S rDNA related sites, depending on the variety used, were revealed by the probe covering the flanking region. The four 5S rDNA loci revealed and mapped on the barley chromosomes: 2 (2I), 3 (3I), 1 (7I), and 4 (4I) were designated 5SRrn-I1, 5SRrn-I2, 5SRrn-I3 and 5SRrn-I4, respectively, in descending order of copy number of 5S rRNA genes.
Novel variants of the 5S rRNA genes in Eruca sativa.	The 5S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes of Eruca sativa were cloned and characterized. They are organized into clusters of tandemly repeated units. Each repeat unit consists of a 119-bp coding region followed by a noncoding spacer region that separates it from the coding region of the next repeat unit. Our study reports novel gene variants of the 5S rRNA genes in plants. Two families of the 5S rDNA, the 0.5-kb size family and the 1-kb size family, coexist in the E. sativa genome. The 0.5-kb size family consists of the 5S rRNA genes (S4) that have coding regions similar to those of other reported plant 5S rDNA sequences, whereas the 1-kb size family consists of the 5S rRNA gene variants (S1) that exist as 1-kb BamHI tandem repeats. S1 is made up of two variant units (V1 and V2) of 5S rDNA where the BamHI site between the two units is mutated. Sequence heterogeneity among S4, V1, and V2 units exists throughout the sequence and is not limited to the noncoding spacer region only. The coding regions of V1 and V2 show approximately 20% dissimilarity to the coding regions of S4 and other reported plant 5S rDNA sequences. Such a large variation in the coding regions of the 5S rDNA units within the same plant species has been observed for the first time. Restriction site variation is observed between the two size classes of 5S rDNA in E. sativa.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Gene arrangement and sequence of the 5S rRNA in Filobasidiella neoformans (Cryptococcus neoformans) as a phylogenetic indicator.	We cloned the 5S rRNA gene and determined its organization in the four genes encoding rRNAs in a ribosomal DNA repeat unit of Filobasidiella neoformans, the teleomorph of Cryptococcus neoformans. The 5S rRNA gene contained 118 nucleotides and was located 1 kb upstream from the 18S rRNA gene within the 8.6-kb fragment of the ribosomal DNA repeat unit. The sequence of the 5S rRNA gene from F. neoformans was more similar to the sequence of the 5S rRNA gene from Tremella mesenterica than to the sequences of the 5S rRNA genes from Filobasidium species. The arrangement of the rRNA genes in F. neoformans closely resembles the arrangement of the rRNA genes in mushrooms such as Schizophyllum commune, Agaricus bisporus, and Coprinus cinereus in that the 5S rRNA-coding region not only is located within the repeat unit that encodes the other rRNAs but also is transcribed in the same direction as the other rRNA genes. This is the first description of the arrangement of rRNA genes in a species belonging to the Heterobasidiomycetes.
Chromosomal mapping and nucleotide sequence of two tandem repeats of Atlantic salmon 5S rDNA.	Atlantic salmon 5S ribosomal DNA (5S rDNA) was amplified by the polymerase chain reaction, using as primers conserved sequences from the coding region of rainbow trout 5S rRNA. Two amplified products of different molecular weights were obtained, cloned, and sequenced, revealing them to be tandemly arranged. The nucleotide sequences differed between the two clones in the length of the nontranscribed spacer (NTS) and in three nucleotides of the coding sequence. By means of fluorescence in situ hybridization the 5S rDNA was chromosomally located in the heterochromatic arm of the pair bearing the satellite, adjacent to the major ribosomal DNA locus (rDNA).
Modular structure of chromosomal proteins HMG-14 and HMG-17: definition of a transcriptional enhancement domain distinct from the nucleosomal binding domain.	Chromosomal proteins HMG-14 and HMG-17 are the only known nuclear proteins which specifically bind to the nucleosome core particle and are implicated in the generation and/or maintenance of structural features specific to active chromatin. The two proteins facilitate polymerase II and III transcription from in vitro- and in vivo-assembled circular chromatin templates. Here we used deletion mutants and specific peptides to identify the transcriptional enhancement domain and delineate the nucleosomal binding domain of the HMG-14 and -17 proteins. Deletion of the 22 C-terminal amino acids of HMG-17 or 26 C-terminal amino acids of HMG-14 reduces significantly the ability of the proteins to enhance transcription from chromatin templates. In contrast, N-terminal truncation mutants had the same transcriptional enhancement activity as the full-length proteins. We conclude that the negatively charged C-terminal region of the proteins is required for transcriptional enhancement. Chromatin transcription enhancement assays, which involve binding competition between the full-length proteins and peptides derived from their nucleosomal binding regions, indicate that the minimal nucleosomal binding domain of human HMG-17 is 24 amino acids long and spans residues 17 to 40. The results suggest that HMG-14 and -17 proteins have a modular structure and contain distinct functional domains.
Chromosomal localization of the major and 5S rRNA genes in the European eel (Anguilla anguilla).	The major (18S, 5.8S, and 28S) and 5S rRNA genes have been mapped by double fluorescent in situ hybridization to European eel metaphase chromosomes. The major rRNA genes were localized to a submetacentric pair of chromosomes that showed a consistent size polymorphism among the individuals studied. The 5S rRNA genes were clustered in a single locus that mapped to the centromeric region of an acrocentric pair. In contrast to the major rRNA genes, no detectable polymorphism, in either size or intensity of the fluorescent signal, was observed. The chromosomal organization of both families of rRNA genes are discussed in terms of genomic organization and chromosomal evolution.
Phylogenetic analysis of the isopenicillin-N-synthetase horizontal gene transfer.	A phylogenetic study of the isopenicillin-N-synthetase (IPNS) gene sequence from prokaryotic and lower eukaryotic producers of beta-lactam antibiotics by means of a maximum-likelihood approach has been carried out. After performing an extensive search, rather than invoking a global molecular clock, the results obtained are best explained by a model with three rates of evolution. Grouped in decreasing order, these correspond to A. nidulans and then to the rest of the eukaryotes and prokaryotes, respectively. The estimated branching date between prokaryotic and fungal IPNS sequences (852 +/- 106 MY) strongly supports the hypothesis that the IPNS gene was horizontally transferred from bacterial beta-lactam producers to filamentous fungi.
Polymorphism and concerted evolution in a tandemly repeated gene family: 5S ribosomal DNA in diploid and allopolyploid cottons.	5S RNA genes and their nontranscribed spacers are tandemly repeated in plant genomes at one or more chromosomal loci. To facilitate an understanding of the forces that govern 5S rDNA evolution, copy-number estimation and DNA sequencing were conducted for a phylogenetically well-characterized set of 16 diploid species of cotton (Gossypium) and 4 species representing allopolyploid derivatives of the diploids. Copy number varies over twentyfold in the genus, from approximately 1,000 to 20,000 copies/2C genome. When superimposed on the organismal phylogeny, these data reveal examples of both array expansion and contraction. Across species, a mean of 12% of nucleotide positions are polymorphic within individual arrays, for both gene and spacer sequences. This shows, in conjunction with phylogenetic evidence for ancestral polymorphisms that survive speciation events, that intralocus concerted evolutionary forces are relatively weak and that the rate of interrepeat homogenization is approximately equal to the rate of speciation. Evidence presented also shows that duplicated 5S rDNA arrays in allopolyploids have retained their subgenomic identity since polyploid formation, thereby indicating that interlocus concerted evolution has not been an important factor in the evolution of these arrays. A descriptive model, one which incorporates the opposing forces of mutation and homogenization within a selective framework, is outlined to account for the empirical data presented. Weak homogenizing forces allow equivalent levels of sequence polymorphism to accumulate in the 5S gene and spacer sequences, but fixation of mutations is nearly prohibited in the 5S gene. As a consequence, fixed interspecific differences are statistically underrepresented for 5S genes. This result explains the apparent paradox that despite similar levels of gene and spacer diversity, phylogenetic analysis of spacer sequences yields highly resolved trees, whereas analyses based on 5S gene sequences do not.
Distribution of 5S and 18S-28S rDNA loci in a tetraploid cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) and its putative diploid ancestors.	The most widely cultivated species of cotton, Gossypium hirsutum, is a disomic tetraploid (2n=4x=52). It has been proposed previously that extant A- and D-genome species are most closely related to the diploid progenitors of the tetraploid. We used fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) to determine the distribution of 5S and 18S-28S rDNA loci in the A-genome species G. herbaceum and G. arboreum, the D-genome species G. raimondii and G. thurberi, and the AD tetraploid G. hirsutum. High signal-to-noise, single-label FISH was used to enumerate rDNA loci, and simultaneous, dual-label FISH was used to determine the syntenic relationships of 5S rDNA loci relative to 18S-28S rDNA loci. These techniques provided greater sensitivity than our previous methods and permitted detection of six new G. hirsutum 18S-28S rDNA loci, bringing the total number of observed loci to 11. Differences in the intensity of the hybridization signal at these loci allowed us to designate them as major, intermediate, or minor 18S-28S loci. Using genomic painting with labeled A-genome DNA, five 18S-28S loci were localized to the G. hirsutum A-subgenome and six to the D-subgenome. Four of the 11 18S-28S rDNA loci in G. hirsutum could not be accounted for in its presumed diploid progenitors, as both A-genome species had three loci and both D-genome species had four. G. hirsutum has two 5S rDNA loci, both of which are syntenic to major 18S-28S rDNA loci. All four of the diploid genomes we examined contained a single 5S locus. In g. herbaceum (A1) and G. thurberi (D1), the 5S locus is syntenic to a major 18S-28S locus, but in G. arboreum (A2) and G. raimondii (D5), the proposed D-genome progenitor of G. hirsutum, the 5S loci are syntenic to minor and intermediate 18S-28S loci, respectively. The multiplicity, variation in size and site number, and lack of additivity between the tetraploid species and its putative diploid ancestors indicate that the behavior of rDNA loci in cotton is nondogmatic, and considerably more complex and dynamic than previously envisioned. The relative variability of 18S-28S rDNA loci versus 5S rDNA loci suggests that the behavior of tandem repeats can differ widely.
Comparison of conventional culture and PCR methods for the detection of Legionella pneumophila in water.	A comparative assessment of conventional culture and nucleic acid techniques in the detection of Legionella pneumophila in seeded tap water samples was performed, using bacterial concentrations ranging from 994 to 0.015 cfu ml-1. Different filtration and centrifugation protocols were evaluated. The results permitted the development of a tentative algorithm for the detection of legionellae in tap water. Samples should first be analysed using PCR methods. In the event of quantitative data and bacterial strains for epidemiologic typing being required, the same sample, or a greater volume of the sample, if positive with PCR, can be re-tested by filtration through polycarbonate membranes followed by plating a homogenate of the filter. If samples are found to be negative with PCR, they can be re-analysed in greater volumes by filtration through polycarbonate membranes followed by direct placing of the filter on culture media, to allow detection of very low numbers of bacteria. This protocol should be validated in the field before it can be routinely implemented.
5'-flanking sequences required for efficient transcription in vitro of 5S RNA genes, in the related nematodes Caenorhabditis elegans and Caenorhabditis briggsae.	In the nematode C. elegans, we had previously observed apparent species specificity in 5S RNA transcription. We have now undertaken a further study of 5S RNA gene transcription in this organism and in the related nematode, C. briggsae; the latter was chosen because it might show evolutionarily conserved, functionally important features. Deletion mutagenesis and transcription in vitro, followed by more precise replacements of short blocks of 5' sequence, show that a short, TATA-like sequence at -25 is essential for efficient transcription in vitro of the 1.0-kb C. elegans 5S DNA repeat, and of both C. briggsae 0.7- and 1.0-kb 5S DNA repeats. Internal sequences within the 5S RNA gene appear to be required and can compete for limiting transcription components, whereas 5' flanking sequences do not. These observations suggest that the process of 5S RNA transcription is similar in these nematodes and other higher eukaryotes.
Inhibition of RNA polymerase III transcription by a ribosome-associated kinase activity.	Ribosomes prepared from somatic tissue of Xenopus laevis inhibit transcription by RNA polymerase III. This observation parallels an earlier report that a high speed fraction from activated egg extract, which is enrichedin ribosomes, inhibits RNA polymerase III activityand destabilizes putative transcription complexes assembled on oocyte 5S rRNA genes. Transcription of somatic- and oocyte-type 5S rRNA genes and a tRNA gene are all repressed in the present experiments. We find that 5S rRNA genes incubated in S150 extract prepared from immature oocytes exhibit an extensive DNase I protection pattern that is nearly identical to that of the ternary complex of TFIIIA and TFIIIC bound to a somatic 5S rRNA gene. The complexes formed in this extract are stable at concentrations of ribosomes that completely repress transcription, indicating that formation of the TFIII(A+C) complex is not the target of inhibition. Ribosomes taken through a high salt treatment no longer repress transcription of class III genes, establishing that the inhibition is due to an associated factor and not the particle itself. The inhibitory activity released from ribosomes is inactivated by treatment with proteinase K, but not micrococcal nuclease. Preincubation of ribosomes with a general protein kinase inhibitor, 6-dimethylaminopurine, eliminates repression of transcription. Western blot analysis demonstrates that p34(cdc2), which is known to mediate repression of transcription by RNA polymerase III, is present in these preparations of ribosomes and can be released from the particles upon extraction with high salt. These results establish that a kinase activity, possibly p34(cdc2), is the actual agent responsible for the observed inhibition of transcription by ribosomes.
Mutational analysis of the structure and localization of the nucleolus in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The nucleolus in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a crescent-shaped structure that makes extensive contact with the nuclear envelope. In different chromosomal rDNA deletion mutants that we have analyzed, the nucleolus is not organized into a crescent structure, as determined by immunofluorescence microscopy, fluorescence in situ hybridization, and electron microscopy. A strain carrying a plasmid with a single rDNA repeat transcribed by RNA polymerase I (Pol I) contained a fragmented nucleolus distributed throughout the nucleus, primarily localized at the nuclear periphery. A strain carrying a plasmid with the 35S rRNA coding region fused to the GAL7 promoter and transcribed by Pol II contained a rounded nucleolus that often lacked extensive contact with the nuclear envelope. Ultrastructurally distinct domains were observed within the round nucleolus. A similar rounded nucleolar morphology was also observed in strains carrying the Pol I plasmid in combination with mutations that affect Pol I function. In a Pol I-defective mutant strain that carried copies of the GAL7-35S rDNA fusion gene integrated into the chromosomal rDNA locus, the nucleolus exhibited a round morphology, but was more closely associated with the nuclear envelope in the form of a bulge. Thus, both the organization of the rDNA genes and the type of polymerase involved in rDNA expression strongly influence the organization and localization of the nucleolus.
16S-23S and 23S-5S intergenic spacer regions of lactobacilli: nucleotide sequence, secondary structure and comparative analysis.	Lactobacilli have been used as industrial starters for a long time, but in several cases their identification was, and still is, neither easy nor reliable. The aim of the present work was to examine whether the intergenic spacer regions could be of value in the identification of Lactobacillus species. For that purpose, the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to amplify 16S-23S and 23S-5S spacer regions of Lactobacillus (L.) acidophilus, L. delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus, L. casei, L. helveticus and L. curvatus. The PCR products were directly sequenced, and two forms of ribosomal RNA (rrn) operons were identified in each species studied: one with tandem tRNA(Ile)/tRNA(Ala) genes and the other one without tRNA genes. Our study revealed that the rrn operons of Lactobacillus species studied comprise the genes of 16S, 23S and 5S rRNA, in that order. Only the tRNA genes and the rRNA processing stems are highly conserved in spacer regions of lactobacilli. The divergence between the lactobacilli spacer region sequences arises from insertions and deletions of short sequences. These sequences could be interesting candidates for the development of species-specific probes. Theoretical RNA/RNA secondary structure models of the interaction between the two spacer region sequences were constructed. In conclusion, the two spacer region sequences may prove to be a useful alternative to 16S and 23S rDNA sequencing for designing species-specific probes and for establishing phylogenetic relationships between closely related species such as L. curvatus and L. casei or L. acidophilus and L. helveticus.
Both the 5S rRNA gene and the AT-rich flanks of xenopus laevis oocyte-type 5S rDNA repeat are required for histone H1-dependent repression of transcription of pol III-type genes in in vitro reconstituted chromatin.	Incorporation of somatic histone H1 into chromatin during embryogenesis of Xenopus laevis results in repression of transcription of the oocyte- but not the somatic-type 5S rRNA genes. We showed earlier that a similar effect of the H1 observed in chromatin reconstituted on circular plasmids in vitro depends on its binding to the AT-rich flanks of the oocyte-type 5S rRNA gene. H1 binding results in stabilization of nucleosomes within the oocyte 5S rDNA repeat comprising the 5S rRNA gene with flanks and in reorganization of chromatin on the entire plasmid DNA. Performing in vitro transcription on reconstituted minichromosome templates carrying the oocyte 5S rRNA gene placed in different arrangements and at different distances from the AT-rich flanks, we now establish that the above effects of H1 observed upon its binding to the AT-rich sequences are absolutely dependent on the presence of the 120 bp oocyte 5S rRNA gene in its native position within the flanks. We also find that with the intact oocyte 5S rDNA repeat, the binding of H1 results in repression of transcription of both pol III- and pol II-type genes and that the transcriptionally inactive chromatin state spreads over a distance of at least a few nucleosomes.
Replication of 5 S ribosomal genes precedes the appearance of early nuclear replication complexes.	The present work shows that replication of the 5 S ribosomal genes differs in time and 3'deoxyadenosine sensitivity from replication of other nuclear genes, in Allium cepa L. root meristems. Fluorescence in situ hybridization with the pTa794 DNA probe which contains a complete 410 bp 5 S gene from Triticum aestivum allowed to detect four clusters of 5 S genes in these diploid cells (2n = 16), two of them in the short arm of the smallest metacentric chromosomal pair 7. Replication of the 5 S ribosomal genes occurred very early in interphase, as discerned by their resolution as doubled spots only two hours after interphase was initiated in synchronous binucleate cells. Codetection of nuclear replication (by immunodetection of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine incorporation) showed that the replication of the 5 S ribosomal genes occurred before any incorporation of 5-bromo-2'deoxyuridine could be detected in the nuclei. The earliest Br-DNA detected in these cells followed a radial pattern from different foci apparently dispersed along some chromosomal arms. These structures seem to represent early replication complexes, as a result of the displacement of multiple DNA forks from the foci known as pre-replication complexes where the replication machinery of the earliest replicating genes assembles. No consistent positional correlation existed between the formation of the early replication complexes and the already replicated 5 S ribosomal clusters. Finally, nuclear replication but not that of the 5 S genes was prevented by 3'deoxyadenosine, and the earliest replicating 5 S ribosomal gene cluster differed in both sister nuclei resulting from the segregation of one single chromosome in anaphase.
Physical mapping and characterization of 5S rRNA genes in Douglas-fir.	Douglas-fir [Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco] is one of the world's most valuable timber species and is widely used in reforestation. Therefore there is considerable interest in understanding its genetic structure. In conifers approximately 75% of the genome is composed of repetitive DNA. Thus for conifers characterization of repetitive DNA is a significant part of genome analysis. We have characterized the organization of 5S rRNA genes in Douglas-fir at both the molecular and chromosome levels. 5S DNA repeat units containing the coding sequence for 5S rRNA and the nontranscribed spacer (NTS) were cloned using PCR. Sequencing and Southern hybridization revealed repeat units of 888 and 871 bp in length, the latter with a 17 bp deletion in the NTS. The coding region showed high homology with other eukaryotic 5S rRNA genes. A 35 bp region of the NTS immediately upstream of the 5' end of the coding region showed high similarity to other conifers but not to other published plant 5S rDNA sequences. Physical mapping of 5S rDNA by fluorescent in situ hybridization using a biotinilated homologous probe revealed a single subtelomeric site on one pair of large metacentric chromosomes.
Visualization of the Brassica self-incompatibility S-locus on identified oilseed rape chromosomes.	Seventy years after Karpechenko [15] first reported the accurate chromosome number of oilseed rape (Brassica napus L., 2n=38), we have developed a quantitative chromosome map of rape using computer imaging technology. The capacity to identify individual rape chromosomes will facilitate a wide range of genetic studies. Here we demonstrate the use of imaging methods in combination with fluorescence in situ hybridization to localize, on identified chromosomes, the single copy S-locus glycoprotein and S-locus-related genes involved in the self-incompatibility system of Brassica. These techniques have a broader application in plant genome research involving the mapping of single-copy genes and markers, irrespective of the plant species.
