Energetics and cooperativity of tertiary hydrogen bonds in RNA structure.	Tertiary interactions that allow RNA to fold into intricate three-dimensional structures are being identified, but little is known about the thermodynamics of individual interactions. Here we quantify the tertiary structure contributions of individual hydrogen bonds in a "ribose zipper" motif of the recently crystallized Tetrahymena group I intron P4-P6 domain. The 2'-hydroxyls of P4-P6 nucleotides C109/A184 and A183/G110 participate in forming the "teeth" of the zipper. These four nucleotides were substituted in all combinations with their 2'-deoxy and (separately) 2'-methoxy analogues, and thermodynamic effects on the tertiary folding DeltaG degrees ' were assayed by the Mg2+ dependence of electrophoretic mobility in nondenaturing gels. The 2'-deoxy series showed a consistent trend with an average contribution to the tertiary folding DeltaG degrees' of -0.4 to -0.5 kcal/mol per hydrogen bond. Contributions were approximately additive, reflecting no cooperativity among the hydrogen bonds. Each "tooth" of the ribose zipper (comprising two hydrogen bonds) thus contributes about -1.0 kcal/mol to the tertiary folding DeltaG degrees'. Single 2'-methoxy substitutions destabilized folding by approximately 1 kcal/mol, but the trend reversed with multiple 2'-methoxy substitutions; the folding DeltaG degrees' for the quadruple 2'-methoxy derivative was approximately unchanged relative to wild-type. On the basis of these data and on temperature-gradient gel results, we conclude that entropically favorable hydrophobic interactions balance enthalpically unfavorable hydrogen bond deletions and steric clashes for multiple 2'-methoxy substitutions. Because many of the 2'-deoxy derivatives no longer have the characteristic hydrogen-bond patterns of the ribose zipper motif but simply have individual long-range ribose-base or ribose-ribose hydrogen bonds, we speculate that the energetic value of -0.4 to -0.5 kcal/mol per tertiary hydrogen bond may be more generally applicable to RNA folding.
Prevalence and immune response to Entamoeba histolytica infection in preschool children in Bangladesh.	Entamoeba histolytica infection was present in 5% and E. dispar in 13% of asymptomatic 2-5-year-old children from an urban slum of Dhaka, Bangladesh. Entamoeba dispar-infected children were no more likely than uninfected children to have serum antibodies to lectin. In contrast, all children infected with E. histolytica had serum antibodies to lectin. This anti-lectin response included antibodies against the carbohydrate recognition domain, which have been demonstrated in animal models to confer passive protection from amebiasis. Antibodies to lectin persisted in the sera of 17 children with E. histolytica infection over one year of follow-up, during which time E. histolytica infection cleared without treatment in 15, and with anti-amebic medication in two. We conclude that half of the children in this population have serologic evidence of amebiasis by five years of age, and that an anti-lectin serum antibody response is associated with limitation of E. histolytica infection to the colon.
Leishmania: overexpression and comparative structural analysis of the stage-regulated meta 1 gene.	The meta 1 gene of Leishmania major is upregulated in metacyclic promastigotes and encodes an 11.5-kDa protein with no significant similarities to other proteins in the existing databases. In this paper, we characterize the homologous meta 1 genes in L. amazonensis and L. donovani. Proteins encoded by this gene in all three species present a high degree of identity. The meta 1 gene cannot be replaced by gene targeting in L. major, suggesting an essential role for the protein, at least in promastigotes. Overexpression of the meta 1 protein in L. amazonensis generates parasites that are more virulent than wild-type organisms in vivo.
Kinetoplastid RNA editing does not require the terminal 3' hydroxyl of guide RNA, but modifications to the guide RNA terminus can inhibit in vitro U insertion.	During RNA editing in kinetoplastid parasites, trans-acting guide RNAs (gRNAs) direct the insertion and deletion of U residues at precise sites in mitochondrial pre-mRNAs. We show here that some modifications to the 3' terminal ribose of gRNA inhibit its ability to direct in vitro U insertion. However, we found that gRNAs lacking this moiety in some circumstances support in vitro editing. Thus, the 3' OH is not required. Inhibition resulting from gRNA modification can be overcome by increasing the gRNA-pre-mRNA base-pairing potential upstream of the editing site, suggesting an importance for this interaction to productive processing.
Transgene-mediated post-transcriptional gene silencing is inhibited by 3' non-coding sequences in Paramecium.	Homology-dependent gene silencing is achieved in Paramecium by introduction of gene coding regions into the somatic nucleus at high copy number, resulting in reduced expression of all homologous genes. Although a powerful tool for functional analysis, the relationship of this phenomenon to gene silencing mechanisms in other organisms has remained obscure. We report here experiments using the T4a gene, a member of the trichocyst [corrected]matrix protein (TMP) multigene family encoding secretory proteins, and the ND7 gene, a single copy gene required for exocytotic membrane fusion. Silencing of either gene leads to an exocytosis-deficient phenotype easily scored on individual cells. For each gene we have tested the ability of different combinations of promoter, coding and 3' non-coding regions to provoke silencing, and analyzed transcription and steady-state RNA in the transformed cells. We provide evidence that homology-dependent gene silencing in Paramecium is post-transcriptional and that both sense and antisense RNA are transcribed from the transgenes, consistent with a role for dsRNA in triggering silencing. Constructs with and without promoters induce gene silencing. However, transgenes that contain 3' non-coding regions do not induce gene silencing, despite antisense RNA production. We present a model according to which different pathways of RNA metabolism compete for transcripts and propose that the relative efficiencies of dsRNA formation and of 3' RNA processing of sense transgene transcripts determine the outcome of transformation experiments.
Trypanosoma brucei 5'ETS A'-cleavage is directed by 3'-adjacent sequences, but not two U3 snoRNA-binding elements, which are all required for subsequent pre-small subunit rRNA processing events.	Trypanosoma brucei pre-rRNA processing commences by cleavage near the 5' end of 5.8 S sequences. The 5' external transcribed spacer (5'ETS) is removed from pre-small subunit (SSU) rRNAs by sequential cleavages at internal A' and A0 sites, and A1 at the 5' end of SSU rRNA. The A' and A0 sites positionally resemble the U3 small nucleolar RNA-dependent, primary pre-rRNA cleavages of vertebrates and yeast, respectively. Uniquely in T. brucei, two U3-crosslinkable 5'ETS sites are essential for SSU rRNA production: site1b is novel in its 3' location to the A' site, and site3 lies upstream of A0 in a position analogous to the yeast U3-binding site. Here, in vivo analysis of mutated 5'ETS sequences shows that sequences 5' to the A' site are not needed for A' cleavage or SSU rRNA production. A' cleavage is linked to, but is not sufficient to trigger, downstream pre-SSU rRNA processing events. These events require an intact 11 nt sequence, 3'-adjacent to A', which directs efficient and accurate A' cleavage. Neither the A' nearby site1b nor the site3 U3-binding elements affect A' processing, yet each is required for A0 and A1 cleavage, and SSU rRNA production. The same U3 3' hinge bases evidently bind a core element, UGUu/gGGU, within site1a and site3; the U3-site1b interaction is less reliant on base-pairing than the U3-site3 interaction. As yeast U3 5' hinge bases pair to 5'ETS sequences, it is clear that distinct U3 hinge regions can interact at both novel and related 5'ETS sites to promote 3'-proximal 5'ETS processing events in diverse organisms. The T. brucei data fit a model wherein processing factors assemble at the 5'ETS site1a to affect A' cleavage and stabilize a U3-site1b complex, which may work in concert with the downstream U3-site3 complex to assist processing events leading to ribosomal SSU production.
Trypanosoma cruzi: allelic comparisons of the actin genes and analysis of their transcripts.	Two allelic genomic fragments containing actin genes from Trypanosoma cruzi were isolated and characterized. One allele comprises two complete tandem repeats of a sequence encoding an actin gene. In the other, only one actin gene is found. Each one of these three gene copies encode for a complete and identical potential protein of 376 amino acids which is 93% similar with its homolog from Trypanosoma brucei. Northern hybridizations of both total and polysomal RNA from epimastigotes demonstrated the presence of an actin polyadenylated mRNA of about 1.6 kb. Actin transcripts processing sites were determined by 5(')- and 3(')-RACE. The obtained sequence data demonstrates that actin genes from both alleles are expressed. The stability of actin mRNA was found to be similar to the one exhibited by the ribosomal protein S4 mRNA as an internal reference. A time course analysis of cultured epimastigotes showed a novel behaviour in which actin mRNA steady state concentration peaks during the transition from the logarithmic to the stationary phase of growth.
Phylogeny and taxonomic revision of plastid-containing euglenophytes based on SSU rDNA sequence comparisons and synapomorphic signatures in the SSU rRNA secondary structure.	Sequence comparisons and a revised classification of the Euglenophyceae were based on 92 new SSU rDNA sequences obtained from strains of Euglena, Astasia, Phacus, Trachelomonas, Colacium, Cryptoglena, Lepocinclis, Eutreptia, Eutreptiella and Tetreutreptia. Sequence data also provided molecular signatures for taxa from genus to class level in the SSU rRNA secondary structure, revealed by a novel approach (search for non-homoplasious synapomorphies) and used for taxonomic diagnoses. Photosynthetic euglenoids and secondary heterotrophs formed a clade, designated as Euglenophyceae (emend.) with two orders: Euglenales and Eutreptiales. The mostly marine Eutreptiales (Eutreptia, Eutreptiella; not Distigma) comprised taxa with two or four emergent flagella (the quadriflagellate Tetreutreptia was integrated within Eutreptiella). The Euglenales (freshwater genera with < or = one emergent flagellum) formed nine clades and two individual branches (single strains); however, only two clades were congruent with traditional genera: Trachelomonas (incl. Strombomonas) and Colacium. Euglena was polyphyletic and diverged into four independent clades (intermixed with Astasia, Khawkinea and Lepocinclis) and two individual branches (e.g. E. polymorpha). Phacus was also subdivided into Phacus s. str. and two combined lineages (mixed with Lepocinclis spp. or Cryptoglena). In consequence, Euglena (s. str.), Phacus and other genera were emended and one lineage (mixed Phacus/Lepocinclis-clade) was recognized as the previously neglected genus Monomorphina Mereschkowsky (1877). The sister clade of Phacus s. str. (mixed Euglena/Lepocinclis-clade) was identified as Lepocinclis Perty (emended).
Enhancing the second step of the trans excision-splicing reaction of a group I ribozyme by exploiting P9.0 and P10 for intermolecular recognition.	We previously reported that a group I intron-derived ribozyme can catalyze the excision of targeted sequences from within RNAs in vitro and that dissociation of the bridge-3' exon intermediate between the two reaction steps is a significant contributing factor to low product yields. We now analyze the effects of increasing the length, and thus the strength, of helices P9.0 and P10, which occur between the ribozyme and the bridge-3' exon region of the substrate, on this trans excision-splicing reaction. Using substrates where lengthy targeted regions are excised, these modifications can significantly increase product yields, specifically by enhancing the second reaction step. A threshold for product formation is obtained, however, at around five base pairs for P10 and eight base pairs for P9.0. Nevertheless, elongating P9.0 appears to be the more effective strategy, as both substrate binding and the rate of the second reaction step increase. In addition, P10 is required when P9.0 is not elongated. Also, a strong P9.0 helix cannot replace a weaker P10 helix, indicating that P9.0 and P10 play somewhat distinct roles in the reaction. We also show that second-step inhibition stems from the formation of an extended P1 helix (P1ex), consisting of as little as a single Watson-Crick base pair, as well as the mere presence of substrate nucleosides immediately downstream from P10. Both of these inhibitory components can be overcome by utilizing P9.0 and P10 elongated ribozymes. This work sets forth an initial framework for rationally designing more effective trans excision-splicing ribozymes.
A nomenclature for all signal recognition particle RNAs.	The signal recognition particle (SRP) is a cytosolic ribonucleoprotein complex that guides secretory proteins to biological membranes in all organisms. The SRP RNA is at the center of the structure and function of the SRP. The comparison of the growing number of SRP RNA sequences provides a rich source for gaining valuable insight into the composition, assembly, and phylogeny of the SRP. In order to assist in the continuation of these studies, we propose an SRP RNA nomenclature applicable to the three divisions of life.
The 7SL RNA homologue of Trypanosoma brucei is closely related to mammalian 7SL RNA.	In eukaryotes, protein translocation across the endoplasmic reticulum is mediated by a signal recognition particle, a small ribonucleoprotein (RNP) containing 7SL RNA. We have cloned and sequenced the gene coding for the Trypanosoma brucei 7SL RNA homologue and found that its sequence shows the highest degree of similarity to the human 7SL RNA sequence. In keeping with the prototype secondary structure of eukaryotic 7SL RNA, the trypanosome 7SL RNA secondary structure can be folded into four domains. The 7SL RNP, which sediments at approximately 11S on sucrose density gradients, was partially purified using column chromatography. A particle containing a 76-nucleotide-long RNA co-purified with the 7SL RNP; however, these particles did not co-fractionate by non-denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.
Trichomonad gastritis in rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) infected with simian immunodeficiency virus.	In a retrospective study, 51 cases of gastritis (14%) were identified from among 341 necropsies performed on simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) at the New England Primate Research Center from 1993 to 2001. Protozoa were seen in the stomach of 13 monkeys (25%) with gastritis. Two histopathologic manifestations of gastritis were observed: seven cases of lymphoplasmacytic gastritis with trichomonad trophozoites within lumens of gastric glands and four cases of necrosuppurative gastritis containing intralesional periodic acid-Schiff-positive protozoa; two cases of gastritis had morphologic features of both types of gastritis. In instances of necrosuppurative and combined lymphoplasmacytic and necrosuppurative gastritis, protozoa were 4-35 microm in diameter and round to tear-shaped. Because of the unusual morphology of the protozoa in these latter cases, transmission electron microscopy and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were used to further identify these organisms. The protozoa were definitively identified as Tritrichomonas in all cases on the basis of ultrastructural characteristics (flagella and undulating membranes) and amplification of a 347-bp product of the 5.8S ribosomal RNA gene of Tritrichomonas foetus, Tritrichomonas suis and Tritrichomonas mobilensis by PCR using DNA extracted from stomach tissue. On the basis of these observations, we conclude that Tritrichomonas can be a significant cofactor in the development of necrosuppurative gastritis in SIV-infected rhesus macaques.
A selenocysteine tRNA and SECIS element in Plasmodium falciparum.	The molecular machinery for incorporating selenocysteine into proteins is present in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Although selenocysteine insertion has been reported in animals, plants, and protozoans, known eukaryotic selenocysteine tRNA sequences and selenocysteine insertion sequences are limited to animals and plants. Here we present clear indications of the presence of selenocysteine-tRNA and a selenocysteine insertion sequence in Plasmodium falciparum. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an identification of protozoan selenocysteine insertion machinery at the sequence level.
Trypanosoma brucei: composition, organisation, plasticity, and differential transcription of NlaIII repeat elements in drug-resistant and sensitive isolates.	A Trypanosoma brucei brucei DNA repeat sequence termed NlaIII repeat (NR) was originally isolated from a multidrug-resistant field isolate CP547 [Jamnadass, R., 1995. Identification and characterisation of an extrachromosomal element from a multidrug-resistant isolate of T. brucei brucei, Ph.D. thesis, Brunel University, UK]. Subsequently studied in a laboratory strain (Tb427) [Alsford, N.S., Navarro, M., Jamnadass, H.R., Dunbar, H., Ackroyd, M., Murphy, N.B., Gull, K., Ersfeld,K., 2003. The identification of circular extrachromosomal DNA in the nuclear genome of T. brucei. Molecular Microbiology 47, 277-288], NRs were exclusively episomal. Here we show that NR sequences in CP547 are present on linear chromosomes as well as on episomal circular elements. Sequence analysis shows that NRs are composed of three classes of sub-repeat arranged in a specific order. Heterogeneity in size and sequence of an episomal 6.6kbp element was shown in successive passages of the original CP547 isolate and derived clones in mice. Its copy number was unstable and was affected by selective pressure with the trypanocide diminazene aceturate. Some of the extrachromosomal elements appear to be composed of RNA-DNA hybrids. NR sequences were transcribed in a developmentally regulated manner but transcripts did not contain the spliced-leader sequence found on all trypanosome mRNAs.
KISS: the kinetoplastid RNA editing sequence search tool.	Kinetoplastid mitochondrial mRNA editing is a post-transcriptional process of uridine insertion and deletion. Editing is mediated by small RNA molecules termed guide RNAs (gRNAs). Most gRNAs are encoded by numerous small circular DNA minicircles, while the protein coding mitochondrial genes are encoded on a separate, larger genome called the maxicircle. In order to provide a workbench for the analysis of RNA editing in kinetoplastids and a well-annotated set of guide RNAs for Trypanosoma brucei, we generated the kinetoplastid RNA editing sequence search tool (KISS) (http://gmod.mbl.edu/kiss/). KISS is a pipeline and database that uses BLAST comparisons and minicircle sequence motifs to annotate potential gRNAs and cognate mRNA editing sequence. KISS 1.0 contains all previously known minicircle and maxicircle data from Trypanosoma brucei plus >400 new minicircle sequences. Using an online format, KISS 1.0 allows the mapping and visualization of all known T. brucei gRNAs to minicircle genes and to potential mRNA substrates for RNA editing.
Characterization of glycosomal RING finger proteins of trypanosomatids.	The glycosomes of trypanosomatids are essential organelles that are evolutionarily related to peroxisomes of other eukaryotes. The peroxisomal RING proteins-PEX2, PEX10 and PEX12-comprise a network of integral membrane proteins that function in the matrix protein import cycle. Here, we describe PEX10 and PEX12 in Trypanosoma brucei, Leishmania major, and Trypanosoma cruzi. We expressed GFP fusions of each T. brucei coding region in procyclic form T. brucei, where they localized to glycosomes and behaved as integral membrane proteins. Despite the weak transmembrane predictions for TbPEX12, protease protection assays demonstrated that both the N and C termini are cytosolic, similar to mammalian PEX12. GFP fusions of T. cruzi PEX10 and L. major PEX12 also localized to glycosomes in T. brucei indicating that glycosomal membrane protein targeting is conserved across trypanosomatids.
Identification of a necessary element for Toxoplasma gondii SAG1 gene expression.	SAG1 codes for the stage-specific major surface antigen P30 of Toxoplasma gondii (T. gondii) tachyzoites. Six tandemly repeated, conserved 27 bp cassettes in the region from -231 to -70 bp were previously confirmed to be essential for high-level expression of SAG1 and serve as a positioning element directing the initiation of transcription. We demonstrate here that an element located between +19 and +28 bp is necessary for SAG1 gene expression by using deletion mutagenesis analysis and electrophoresis mobility shift assay (EMSA). This will provide an insight into the regulatory mechanisms of SAG1 gene expression.
Immune responses to an Eimeria acervulina infection in different broilers lines.	The (T-cell) immune responses of two different broiler lines to a primary Eimeria acervulina infection were investigated. The lines used were a commercial fast-growing broiler line and a slow-growing type of broiler as used in organic farming. Seven-day-old broilers of both lines were infected with 5 x 10(4) oocysts of E. acervulina. The animals were weighed and a species-specific real-time PCR was used to quantify the total amount of parasites in the duodenum. In the fast-growing line, a lower parasite load was seen from day 4 onwards compared to the slow-growing line. In both lines the intestinal peak of Eimeria DNA was observed at day 5 post infection (p.i.). In the duodenum no increase in CD4(+) T-cells was found in both infected lines, but a fast increase in CD8(+) T-cells was observed in the fast-growing line. At day 3 p.i. in the slow-growing broilers an IL-18 mRNA response was observed. At day 4 p.i. strong IFN-gamma and IL-8 mRNA responses were found in both lines. No IL-4 mRNA responses were found in the duodenum. In conclusion, both lines have different growth rates and control and infected conditions. Based on the kinetics of observed phenomena a primary infection with E. acervulina in 7-day-old broilers seems to generate an early CD8alpha(+) response in fast-growing broilers compared to the slow-growing broilers. This difference in immune reaction after an E. acervulina infection could result in a different Eimeria load in the duodenum.
The Beamline X28C of the Center for Synchrotron Biosciences: a national resource for biomolecular structure and dynamics experiments using synchrotron footprinting.	Structural mapping of proteins and nucleic acids with high resolution in solution is of critical importance for understanding their biological function. A wide range of footprinting technologies have been developed over the last ten years to address this need. Beamline X28C, a white-beam X-ray source at the National Synchrotron Light Source of Brookhaven National Laboratory, functions as a platform for synchrotron footprinting research and further technology development in this growing field. An expanding set of user groups utilize this national resource funded by the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering of the National Institutes of Health. The facility is operated by the Center for Synchrotron Biosciences and the Center for Proteomics of Case Western Reserve University. The facility includes instrumentation suitable for conducting both steady-state and millisecond time-resolved footprinting experiments based on the production of hydroxyl radicals by X-rays. Footprinting studies of nucleic acids are routinely conducted with X-ray exposures of tens of milliseconds, which include studies of nucleic acid folding and their interactions with proteins. This technology can also be used to study protein structure and dynamics in solution as well as protein-protein interactions in large macromolecular complexes. This article provides an overview of the X28C beamline technology and defines protocols for its adoption at other synchrotron facilities. Lastly, several examples of published results provide illustrations of the kinds of experiments likely to be successful using these approaches.
Distinct contribution of electrostatics, initial conformational ensemble, and macromolecular stability in RNA folding.	We distinguish the contribution of the electrostatic environment, initial conformational ensemble, and macromolecular stability on the folding mechanism of a large RNA using a combination of time-resolved "Fast Fenton" hydroxyl radical footprinting and exhaustive kinetic modeling. This integrated approach allows us to define the folding landscape of the L-21 Tetrahymena thermophila group I intron structurally and kinetically from its earliest steps with unprecedented accuracy. Distinct parallel pathways leading the RNA to its native form upon its Mg(2+)-induced folding are observed. The structures of the intermediates populating the pathways are not affected by variation of the concentration and type of background monovalent ions (electrostatic environment) but are altered by a mutation that destabilizes one domain of the ribozyme. Experiments starting from different conformational ensembles but folding under identical conditions show that whereas the electrostatic environment modulates molecular flux through different pathways, the initial conformational ensemble determines the partitioning of the flux. This study showcases a robust approach for the development of kinetic models from collections of local structural probes.
Evidence for translational control of beta-tubulin synthesis during differentiation of Leishmania donovani.	Tubulin biosynthesis was rapidly induced during transformation of the mammalian (amastigote) stage of the kinetoplastid parasite Leishmania donovani to flagellated promastigotes. However, transcription of beta-tubulin genes occurred constitutively, as judged by nascent RNA synthesis in isolated nuclei and Northern blotting of steady-state mRNA. Two mRNA species of 2.2 and 2.4 kb were shared by the two cell-types, while a third 2.6 kb species, constituting about 20% of the total, was present in large amounts in promastigotes. RNase protection experiments demonstrated sequence microheterogeneity in the 5'-untranslated region, the pattern of which was identical in promastigotes and amastigotes. By primer extension assays, heterogeneity in the 5'-terminal cap structure of amastigote beta-tubulin mRNA and differential pausing of reverse transcriptase within the mini-exon leader region were detected. These differences correlated with enhanced translational efficiency of tubulin mRNA from promastigotes in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate system. The results indicate that translational control plays a major role in tubulin induction during L. donovani differentiation.
Ciliate telomerase RNA loop IV nucleotides promote hierarchical RNP assembly and holoenzyme stability.	Telomerase adds simple-sequence repeats to chromosome 3' ends to compensate for the loss of repeats with each round of genome replication. To accomplish this de novo DNA synthesis, telomerase uses a template within its integral RNA component. In addition to providing the template, the telomerase RNA subunit (TER) also harbors nontemplate motifs that contribute to the specialized telomerase catalytic cycle of reiterative repeat synthesis. Most nontemplate TER motifs function through linkage with the template, but in ciliate and vertebrate telomerases, a stem-loop motif binds telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) and reconstitutes full activity of the minimal recombinant TERT+TER RNP, even when physically separated from the template. Here, we resolve the functional requirements for this motif of ciliate TER in physiological RNP context using the Tetrahymena thermophila p65-TER-TERT core RNP reconstituted in vitro and the holoenzyme reconstituted in vivo. Contrary to expectation based on assays of the minimal recombinant RNP, we find that none of a panel of individual loop IV nucleotide substitutions impacts the profile of telomerase product synthesis when reconstituted as physiological core RNP or holoenzyme RNP. However, loop IV nucleotide substitutions do variably reduce assembly of TERT with the p65-TER complex in vitro and reduce the accumulation and stability of telomerase RNP in endogenous holoenzyme context. Our results point to a unifying model of a conformational activation role for this TER motif in the telomerase RNP enzyme.
Selection of small molecules by the Tetrahymena catalytic center.	The catalytic center in group I RNAs contains a selective binding site that accommodates both guanosine and L-arginine. In order to understand the specificity of the RNA for small molecules, we analyzed 6 RNAs that vary in this region. Specificity for nucleotides resides substantially in G264 rather than its paired nucleotide C311, and is expressed substantially in Km, with comparatively little variation in kcat. kcat is not notably perturbed even for RNAs with mispairs in the active-site helix. For 5 of 6 sequences, effects of RNA substitutions on arginine binding and GTP reactivity are proportional, confirming that arginine contacts a subset of the groups occupied by G. As a result of particular mutations, reaction with GTP is decreased, and reaction with the natural nucleotides UTP and ATP is enhanced. Molecular modeling of these effects suggests that exceptionally flexible placement of reactants may be an essential quality of RNA-catalyzed splicing. The specificity of the intron can be rationalized by a type of binding model not previously considered, in which the G/arginine site includes adjacent nucleotides (an 'axial' site), rather than a single nucleotide, G264.
Implication of CA repeated tracts on post-transcriptional regulation in Trypanosoma cruzi.	In Trypanosoma cruzi gene expression regulation mainly relays on post-transcriptional events. Nevertheless, little is known about the signals which control mRNA abundance and functionality. We have previously found that CA repeated tracts (polyCA) are abundant in the vicinity of open reading frames and constitute specific targets for single stranded binding proteins from T. cruzi epimastigote. Given the reported examples of the involvement of polyCA motifs in gene expression regulation, we decided to further study their role in T. cruzi. Using an in silico genome-wide analysis, we identify the genes that contain polyCA within their predicted UTRs. We found that about 10% of T. cruzi genes carry polyCA therein. Strikingly, they are frequently concurrent with GT repeated tracts (polyGT), favoring the formation of a secondary structure exhibiting the complementary polydinucleotides in a double stranded helix. This feature is found in the species-specific family of genes coding for mucine associated proteins (MASPs) and other genes. For those polyCA-containing UTRs that lack polyGT, the polyCA is mainly predicted to adopt a single stranded structure. We further analyzed the functional role of such element using a reporter approach in T. cruzi. We found out that the insertion of polyCA at the 3' UTR of a reporter gene in the pTEX vector modulates its expression along the parasite's life cycle. While no significant change of the mRNA steady state of the reporter gene could be detected at the trypomastigote stage, significant increase in the epimastigote and reduction in the amastigote stage were observed. Altogether, these results suggest the involvement of polyCA as a signal in gene expression regulation in T. cruzi. 
Global characterization of microRNAs in Trichomonas gallinae.	Trichomonas gallinae is a protozoan parasite causing trichomonosis in many species of domestic poultry and birds world-wide. microRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small non-coding RNAs that play key roles in gene regulation. However, no miRNAs have been characterized from T. gallinae.
Comparison of introns in a cdc2-homologous gene within a number of Plasmodium species.	The first three introns of CRK2, a cdc2-homologous gene, have been compared in a total of seven Plasmodium species. The introns were located at conserved sites, suggesting an ancestral origin. Interspecific comparison of intron sequences agreed with the previously inferred evolutionary relationships of the malaria parasites. Unlike the introns in the rodent malaria species, the similarity of the CRK2 introns was regionalized between the human parasite P. vivax and the simian parasite P. knowlesi: the central region of all three introns showed markedly less interspecific similarity than the 5' and 3' regions. This was also in contrast with the organisation and composition of homologous intron pairs from other genes of the same two species. No conservation at the level of secondary structure could be detected, even between highly similar introns. A database search for intron-containing Plasmodium genes was performed. All introns obtained in this way plus the additional CRK2 introns were scanned for the presence of putative branching site consensus sequences. For P. falciparum, we present an update of the 5' and 3' splice-site consensus.
Self-assembly of a group I intron active site from its component tertiary structural domains.	The catalytic core of Group I self-splicing introns has been proposed to consist of two structural domains, P4-P6 and P3-P9. Each contains helical segments and conserved unpaired nucleotides, and the isolated P4-P6 domain has been shown to have substantial native tertiary structure. The proposed tertiary structure domains of the Tetrahymena intron were synthesized separately and shown to self-assemble into a catalytically active complex. Surprisingly, the concentration dependence of these reactions revealed that the domains interact with nanomolar apparent dissociation constants, even though there is no known base pairing between P4-P6 and P3-P9. This suggests that the domains interact through multiple tertiary contacts, the nature of which can now be explored in this system. For example, a circularly permuted version of the P4-P6 domain, which folds similarly to the native P4-P6 molecule, formed a stable but inactive complex. Interestingly, activity was demonstrated with the permuted molecule when nucleotides proposed to form a triple-strand interaction with P4 and P6 were restored as part of the P1-P3 substrate or as part of the P3-P9 RNA. Thus, beyond stabilization of the P4-P6 domain, the triple-strand region may facilitate correct orientation of the RNA domains or participate more directly in catalysis.
In vivo structural analysis of spliced leader RNAs in Trypanosoma brucei and Leptomonas collosoma: a flexible structure that is independent of cap4 methylations.	The formation of the mRNA 5' end in trypanosomatid protozoa is carried out by trans-splicing, which transfers a spliced leader (SL) sequence and its hypermethylated cap (cap4) from the SL RNA to the pre-mRNA. Previous in vitro studies with synthetic uncapped RNAs have shown that the SL sequence of Leptomonas collosoma can assume two alternate conformations, Form 1 and Form 2, with Form 1 being the dominant one. To gain information about the structure of the SL RNA in vivo, in its protein-rich environment, we have used permeable Trypanosoma brucei and L. collosoma cells for chemical modification experiments. We introduce the use in vivo of the water-soluble reagents CMCT and kethoxal. In contrast to the in vitro results, the Form 2 secondary structure predominates. However, there are chemically accessible regions that suggest conformational flexibility in SL RNPs and a chemically inaccessible region suggestive of protection by protein or involvement in tertiary interactions. Using complementary 2'-O-methyl RNA oligonucleotides, we show that T. brucei SL RNA can be induced to switch conformation in vivo. SL RNA stripped of proteins and probed in vitro does not display the same Form 2 bias, indicating that SL RNA structure is determined, at least in part, by its RNP context. Finally, the methyl groups of the cap4 do not seem to affect the secondary structure of T. brucei SL RNA, as shown by chemical modification of undermethylated SL RNA probed in vivo.
Analysis of the structure of Tetrahymena nuclear RNAs in vivo: telomerase RNA, the self-splicing rRNA intron, and U2 snRNA.	Dimethyl sulfate modification of RNA in living Tetrahymena thermophila allowed assessment of RNA secondary structure and protein association. The self-splicing rRNA intron had the same methylation pattern in vivo as in vitro, indicating that the structures are equivalent and suggesting that this RNA is not stably associated with protein in the nucleolus. Methylation was consistent with the current secondary structure model. Much of telomerase RNA was protected from methylation in vivo, but the A's and C's in the template region were very reactive. Thus, most telomerase is not base paired to telomeres in vivo. Protein-free telomerase RNA adopts a structure different from that in vivo, especially in the template and pseudoknot regions. The U2 snRNA showed methylation protection at the Sm protein-binding sequence and the mRNA branch site recognition sequence. For both telomerase RNA and U2 snRNA, the in vivo methylation pattern corresponded much better to the structure determined by comparative sequence analysis than did the in vitro methylation pattern. Thus, as expected, comparative analysis gives the structure of the RNA in vivo.
Kinetics of an RNA conformational switch.	The spliced leader RNA from Leptomonas collosoma has two competing secondary structures of nearly equal free energy. Short, complementary oligonucleotides can drive the structure from one form of the other. We report stopped-flow rapid-mixing and temperature-jump measurements of the kinetics of the structural switch. At high concentrations of oligonucleotide, the rate of binding becomes limited by the rate of the structural switch, which occurs on a time scale of a fraction of a second. The low activation energy observed for the process implies a branch migration type of mechanism in which portions of the two competing helices transiently coexist.
RNA folding causes secondary structure rearrangement.	The secondary structure of the P5abc subdomain (a 56-nt RNA) of the Tetrahymena thermophila group I intron ribozyme has been determined by NMR. Its base pairing in aqueous solution in the absence of magnesium ions is significantly different from the RNA in a crystal but is consistent with thermodynamic predictions. On addition of magnesium ions, the RNA folds into a tertiary structure with greatly changed base pairing consistent with the crystal structure: three Watson-Crick base pairs, three G.U base pairs, and an extra-stable tetraloop are lost. The common assumption that RNA folds by first forming secondary structure and then forming tertiary interactions from the unpaired bases is not always correct.
A minor groove RNA triple helix within the catalytic core of a group I intron.	Close packing of several double helical and single stranded RNA elements is required for the Tetrahymena group I ribozyme to achieve catalysis. The chemical basis of these packing interactions is largely unknown. Using nucleotide analog interference suppression (NAIS), we demonstrate that the P1 substrate helix and J8/7 single stranded segment form an extended minor groove triple helix within the catalytic core of the ribozyme. Because each triple in the complex is mediated by at least one 2'-OH group, this substrate recognition triplex is unique to RNA and is fundamentally different from major groove homopurine-homopyrimidine triplexes. We have incorporated these biochemical data into a structural model of the ribozyme core that explains how the J8/7 strand organizes several helices within this complex RNA tertiary structure.
Divalent cations stabilize unstacked conformations of DNA and RNA by interacting with base pi systems.	Nucleic acid structure, stability, and reactivity are governed substantially by cations. We propose that magnesium and other biological inorganic ions unstack bases of DNA and RNA. This unstacking function of cations opposes their previously accepted role in stabilizing DNA and RNA duplexes and higher assemblies. We show that cations interact favorably with pi-systems of nucleic acid bases. These cation-pi interactions require access of cations or their first hydration shells to faces of nucleic acid bases. We observe that hydrated magnesium ions located in the major groove of B-DNA pull cytosine bases partially out from the helical stack, exposing pi-systems to positive charge. A series of critical cation-pi interactions contribute to the stability of the anticodon arm of yeast-tRNAphe, and to the magnesium core of the Tetrahymena group I intron P4-P6 domain. The structural consequences of divalent cation-pi interactions are clearly distinct from, and some cases in opposition to, cation-electron lone pair interactions. These observations of cation-pi interactions suggest a number of new mechanistic roles for cations in DNA bending, DNA-protein recognition, base-flipping, RNA folding, and catalysis.
