Local definition of Ty1 target preference by long terminal repeats and clustered tRNA genes.	LTR-containing retrotransposons reverse transcribe their RNA genomes, and the resulting cDNAs are integrated into the genome by the element-encoded integrase protein. The yeast LTR retrotransposon Ty1 preferentially integrates into a target window upstream of tDNAs (tRNA genes) in the yeast genome. We investigated the nature of these insertions and the target window on a genomic scale by analyzing several hundred de novo insertions upstream of tDNAs in two different multicopy gene families. The pattern of insertion upstream of tDNAs was nonrandom and periodic, with peaks separated by approximately 80 bp. Insertions were not distributed equally throughout the genome, as certain tDNAs within a given family received higher frequencies of upstream Ty1 insertions than others. We showed that the presence and relative position of additional tDNAs and LTRs surrounding the target tDNA dramatically influenced the frequency of insertion events upstream of that target.
Relaxed primer specificity associated with reverse transcriptases encoded by the pFOXC retroplasmids of Fusarium oxysporum.	The pFOXC mitochondrial retroplasmids are small, autonomously replicating linear DNAs that have a telomere-like repeat of a 5-bp sequence at their termini. The plasmids are possible evolutionary precursors of the ribonucleoprotein complex telomerase, as they encode an active reverse transcriptase (RT) that is involved in plasmid replication. Using an in vitro system to study reverse transcription, we show that the pFOXC RT is capable of copying in vitro-synthesized RNAs by use of cDNA primers or extension of snapped-back RNA templates. The ability of the pFOXC RT to use base-paired primers distinguishes it from the closely related RTs encoded by the Mauriceville and Varkud mitochondrial retroplasmids of Neurospora spp. Reaction products are similar, but not identical, to those obtained with conventional RTs, and differences reflect the ability of the pFOXC RT to initiate cDNA synthesis with loosely associated primers. The pFOXC RT can also copy DNA templates and extend 3' mismatched DNA oligonucleotide primers. Analysis of pFOXC in vivo replication intermediates suggests that telomeric repeats are added during reverse transcription, and the ability to extend loosely associated primers could play a role in repeat formation by mechanisms similar to those associated with telomerase and certain non-long-terminal-repeat retrotransposons.
Transcript profiles of Blumeria graminis development during infection reveal a cluster of genes that are potential virulence determinants.	High-density cDNA microarrays (2,027 unigenes) were used to analyze transcript profiles of the plant-pathogenic fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei throughout its asexual life cycle and development of infection. RNA was obtained from four stages preceding penetration and four stages after penetration of the host cells. The microarray data was validated by comparing the expression of a plasma membrane H+-ATPase and fructose-1,6-bis phosphatase with the data obtained from a quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay. The results showed that there was a global switch in expression between the pre- and postpenetrative stages. This was largely due to accumulation of RNA encoding protein biosynthesis genes in the late stages. Other functional clusters, such as virulence-related genes and sterol metabolism genes, are up-regulated in pre- and postpenetration stages, respectively. A group of RNAs whose abundance correlated with the expression of cap20, a gene known to be required for virulence in Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, identified genes that are strong candidates for pathogenicity factors in B. graminis.
Analysis of the multiple transcripts of the Dd ras gene during Dictyostelium discoideum development.	Transcripts from the Dd ras gene can only be detected once starved cells have begun to aggregate (Reymond et al., Cell 39: 141-148, 1984). We show in this report that the three transcripts which originate from Dd ras during normal development differ in their 5' ends. In suspension of starved single cells, one major Dd ras RNA accumulates upon addition of cAMP. It seems that the cAMP regulation of Dd ras expression happens both at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional level. An RNA secondary structure present in the 5' untranslated region of the gene is proposed to be important in this post-transcriptional regulation.
Comparison of DNA sequencing analysis with phenotyping test for identification of yeasts isolated from foods]	The identification of 20 strains of yeasts isolated from foods by means of DNA sequence analysis with two kinds of universal primers for the rDNA region was examined, and the results were compared with those of the conventional phenotyping test using API 20C AUX. In the analysis of the 26S region, all 20 yeast strains tested were identified at the species level. In the ITS1 region, 16 strains were also classified at the species level. In addition, all results of DNA sequence analysis were consistent with those of the phenotyping test at the genus level. Furthermore, DNA sequence analysis was able to identify causative yeasts observed in two suspect foods, though phenotyping tests alone failed to identify them.
Nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD)--on guard of mRNA quality]	Nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) is a surveillance pathway that protects cells from potentially harmful effects of truncated proteins that would otherwise be translated from mRNAs bearing premature termination codons (PTC). NMD targets not only aberrant mRNAs possessing PTCs resulting from mutations, transcription errors or abnormal splicing but is also thought to be involved in regulating the expression of several wild-type transcripts (approximately 10% of the transcriptome). NMD is a conserved pathway present in all eukaryotic organisms studied so far (yeast, nematoda, flies, mammals and plants). The key players involved in NMD are also conserved among these species. However, details of NMD mechanism vary among eukaryotic organisms studied so far.
mRNA-type introns in U6 small nuclear RNA genes: implications for the catalysis in pre-mRNA splicing.	U6 small nuclear RNA is one of the spliceosomal RNAs involved in pre-mRNA splicing. In the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, the U6 RNA gene was found to have an intron similar to a nuclear pre-mRNA intron, and it was proposed that the U6 intron might be inserted erroneously during pre-mRNA splicing. Using the polymerase chain reaction, we analyzed the U6 RNA genes of 52 organisms. In addition to the five species of Schizosaccharomyces, we found that the yeast species Rhodotorula hasegawae and Rhodosporidium dacryoidum also have mRNA-type introns in their U6 genes; however, in all the other organisms tested, we found no intron within the region of the U6 gene examined. Four introns and one intron are present in the R. hasegawae and R. dacryoidum U6 genes, respectively; and these introns are located at sites differing from the location of the Schizosaccharomyces U6 intron. Most of the U6 introns locate within the conserved domain, which is strikingly similar in structure to the catalytic center of the negative strand of the satellite RNA of tobacco ring spot virus. The introns of the S. pombe and R. dacryoidum U6 genes are located immediately adjacent to the nucleotides that were shown to be essential for the second step of the splicing reaction. These results support the notion that U6 RNA has a catalytic role in pre-mRNA splicing and that U6 introns originated from insertion of an excised intron during pre-mRNA splicing.
The phage T4 nrdB intron: a deletion mutant of a version found in the wild.	Bacteriophage T4 possesses three self-splicing group I introns. Two of the three introns are mobile elements; the third, in the gene encoding a subunit of the phage nucleotide reductase (nrdB), is not mobile. Because intron mobility offers a reasonable explanation for the paradoxical occurrence of large intervening sequences in a space-efficient eubacterial phage, it is puzzling that the nrdB intron is not mobile like its compatriots. We have discovered a larger nrdB intron in a closely related phage, and we infer from comparative sequence data that the T4 intron is a deletion mutant derived from this larger intron. This larger nrdB intron encodes an open reading frame of 269 codons, which we have cloned and overexpressed. The overexpressed protein shows a dsDNA endonuclease activity specific for the intronless nrdB gene, typical of mobile introns. Thus, we believe that all three introns of T4 are or were mobile "infectious introns" and that they have entered into and been maintained in the phage population by virtue of this efficient mobility.
Controlled randomized clinical trials of immunomodulators diucifon and sodium nucleinate in children with recurrent suppurative infections]	There were 3 groups of children with recurrent purulent infections, who were entered into randomized clinical studies. Group 1 received sodium nucleinate, group 2 diucifon and group 3 placebo (calcium gluconate). After 6 months a well-defined clinical effect manifested by the lowering of the rate and gravity of exacerbations was recorded in 68% of the patients belonging to groups 1 and 2 and in 39% of group 3 patients, which is much more seldom (p less than 0.05). During immunological studies according to the level I tests, no significant changes in the indicators were recorded either before or after the treatment both among the patients who responded to immunotherapy and among those who did not respond to it. The conclusion is drawn that if indicated clinically, sodium nucleinate of diucifon can be administered in spite of the normal immune status in accordance with the level I tests.
Do TE activity and counteracting genome defenses, RNAi and methylation, shape the sex lives of smut fungi?	The availability of three genomes from smut fungi differing in mating, TE load, and genome defense mechanisms, allowed a comparative analyses and a discussion on evolutionary forces shaping them. A complex balance of selective forces seems at play. A bipolar mating system in Ustilago hordei promotes selfing, advantageous for successful niche occupation but favoring accumulation of repetitive DNA, including TEs. TE activity may have caused genome variations necessary for these obligate parasites under high host selection pressures. Higher TE activity is balanced by genome defenses through recombination, RNAi, methylation and RIP mutagenesis. In tetrapolar U. maydis, lacking silencing and possibly methylation mechanisms, reduced inbreeding potential favors removal of repetitive DNA, presumably by its highly-efficient recombination system. 
Carrier RNA enhancement of recovery of DNA from dilute solutions.	A study of the use of carrier RNA to improve precipitation of DNA from dilute solutions was conducted to define the conditions which optimize DNA recovery. Replicate samples containing labeled pBR322 and increasing concentrations of commercially-available Torula yeast RNA were ethanol precipitated at -20 degrees C for 1 h in microfuge tubes obtained from various manufacturers. Nucleic acids were pelleted by centrifugation for either 5 or 30 min, dried and resuspended. Although recovery was not identical in each type of microfuge tube, in all cases the percent recovery increased when carrier was added. In most cases, extending centrifugation to 30 min did not significantly increase recovery. Recovery of unlabeled DNA's of heterogeneous molecular weight and conformation was also enhanced by the addition of carrier RNA. DNA's recovered by this method can be successfully digested with BamHI and ligated with T4 DNA ligase.
Cloning of the creA gene from Aspergillus nidulans: a gene involved in carbon catabolite repression.	The creA gene from A. nidulans has been cloned by complementation of a non-revertable mutant allele using a genomic library and marker rescue techniques. The rescued sequence was subcloned and a 2.3 kb fragment identified which complements several creA mutant alleles. Northern analyses showed that creA encodes a transcript of approximately 1.8 kb in length and that the levels of this transcript varied by up to two fold depending on the carbon source. Transformants containing more than two extra copies of creA grew as wildtype on a range of carbon sources, but there was evidence for tighter carbon catabolite repression.
A study of derepression of NAD-specific glutamate dehydrogenase of Neurospora crassa.	Transfer of Neurospora crassa mycelium from a 1% (w/v) sucrose medium to carbon-free or 1% (w/v) glutamate medium results in the onset of derepression of the catabolic NAD-specific glutamate dehydrogenase (NAD-GDH), within 30 min of the shift. Immunoprecipitation of in vivo pulse-labelled NAD-GDH demonstrated that this enzyme was synthesized de novo, correlating with increasing enzyme activity in shifted cells. Derepression was shown to be under transcriptional control by using the RNA synthesis inhibitor, picolinic acid, and by immunoprecipitation of the in vitro translation products of poly(A)-containing mRNA from repressed and derepressed cells. A brief (5 min) shift to derepression medium followed by a return to 1% (w/v) sucrose medium was sufficient to trigger synthesis of abundant NAD-GDH transcripts and low levels of the active enzyme. A secondary level of translational control is proposed to account for the discrepancy between the detectable levels of NAD-GDH transcripts and protein, following transient derepression.
Comparison of the tertiary structure of yeast tRNA(Asp) and tRNA(Phe) in solution. Chemical modification study of the bases.	A comparative study of the solution structures of yeast tRNA(Asp) and tRNA(Phe) was undertaken with chemical reagents as structural probes. The reactivity of N-7 positions in guanine and adenine residues was assayed with dimethylsulphate and diethyl-pyrocarbonate, respectively, and that of the N-3 position in cytosine residues with dimethylsulphate. Experiments involved statistical modifications of end-labelled tRNAs, followed by splitting at modified positions. The resulting end-labelled oligonucleotides were resolved on polyacrylamide sequencing gels and analysed by autoradiography. Three different experimental conditions were used to follow the progressive denaturation of the two tRNAs. Experiments were done in parallel on tRNA(Asp) and tRNA(Phe) to enable comparison between the two solution structures and to correlate the results with the crystalline conformations of both molecules. Structural differences were detected for G4, G45, G71 and A21: G4 and A21 are reactive in tRNA(Asp) and protected in tRNA(Phe), while G45 and G71 are protected in tRNA(Asp) and reactive in tRNA(Phe). For the N-7 atom of A21, the different reactivity is correlated with the variable variable loop structures in the two tRNAs; in the case of G45 the results are explained by a different stacking of A9 between G45 and residue 46. For G4 and G71, the differential reactivities are linked to a different stacking in both tRNAs. This observation is of general significance for helical stems. If the previous results could be fully explained by the crystal structures, unexpected similarities in solution were found for N-3 alkylation of C56 in the T-loop, which according to crystallography should be reactive in tRNA(Asp). The apparent discrepancy is due to conformational differences between crystalline and solution tRNA(Asp) at the level of the D and T-loop contacts, linked to long-distance effects induced by the quasi-self-complementary anticodon GUC, which favour duplex formation within the crystal, contrarily to solution conditions where the tRNA is essentially in its free state.
Differential translational efficiency of the mRNAs isolated from derepressed and glucose repressed Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Carbon catabolite derepression induced changes in the pool of yeast mRNAs translatable in a protein-synthesizing reticulocyte system. Competition experiments with globin mRNA showed that the mRNA population obtained from derepressed cells possessed a higher translational efficiency than mRNA from repressed cells. The mRNAs that could account for the high translational efficiency of the derepressed mRNA were not detected in cells growing in glucose-rich medium. Analysis of protein synthesis in the presence of 7-methylguanosine 5'-phosphate indicated that the initiation factors recognizing the 5'-terminal structure of capped messengers interacted with lower affinity with the repressed than with some specific derepressed mRNAs.
Mechanistic studies of ribonucleic acid renaturation by a helix-destabilizing protein.	The ability of a nucleic acid helix-destabilizing protein from calf thymus, UP1, to facilitate renaturation of yeast tRNALeu3 and Escherichia coli 5S RNA is shown to be a consequence of the protein's ability to bind stoichiometrically to single-stranded polynucleotide regions. A comparison of the inhibitory effect of different homopolymers on UP1-induced renaturation of tRNALeu3 does not indicate significant base specificity in UP1 binding, and a 3'-5' ribose phosphate polymer devoid of heterocyclic bases inhibits as well as the homopolynucleotides. These inhibition studies also show that UP1 requires polynucleotide segments of at least three phosphate residues to bind. Mg2+ (which is required for the stabilization of native tRNALeu3) dissociates complexes of UP1 with inactive tRNA, and since the RNAs in those complexes lack a substantial amount of secondary structure, it can upon dissociation readily refold into the native structure. A semiquantitative treatment of UP1-RNA interaction is developed that suggests that only a small number (approximately six) of protein molecules are bound to tRNALeu3 in the complex while analysis of the inhibition studies suggests that these UP1 molecules are not bound in a highly cooperative manner.
Isolation and characterization of linear deoxyribonucleic acid plasmids from Kluyveromyces lactis and the plasmid-associated killer character.	Two linear deoxyribonucleic acid plasmids, designated pGK11 and pGK12, were isolated from the yeast Kluyveromyces lactis IFO 1267. pGK11 and pGK12 had molecular weights of 5.4 X 10(6) and 8.4 X 10(6), respectively. Both plasmids possessed the same density of 1.687 g/cm3, lighter than the densities of mitochondrial (1.692 g/cm3) and nuclear (1.699 g/cm3) deoxyribonucleic acids. A restriction map of pGK11 was constructed from digestions by EcoRI, HindIII, PstI, and BamHI. pGK12 was cleaved by EcoRI into seven fragments and by BamHI into two fragments K. lactis IFO 1267 killed Saccharomyces cerevisiae sensitive and killer strains and certain strains of Saccharomyces italicus, K. lactis, Kluyveromyces thermotolerans, and K. vanudenii. All K. lactis strains lacking the pGK1 plasmids were nonkillers. A hybrid was constructed between K. lactis IFO 1267 and a nonkiller K. lactis strain lacking the plasmids and subjected to tetrad analysis after sporulation. The killer character was extrachromosomally transmitted in all tetrads in association with the pGK1 plasmids. The double-stranded ribonucleic acid killer plasmid could not be detected in any K. lactis killer strains. It is thus highly probable that the killer character is mediated by the linear deoxyribonucleic acid plasmids. A single chromosomal gene was found which was responsible for the resistance to the K. lactis killer.
Multiple, discrete 35S transcripts of cauliflower mosaic virus.	We have devised a modification of the Berk and Sharp procedure that allows us to detect the presence of a diverse population of 35S full-length, genomic viral transcripts of cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV). Using this procedure we have been able to identify and characterize four such 35S transcripts. The first 35S RNA that we have mapped, 35S-1, is a slightly longer than full-length transcript, beginning approximately at nucleotide 7500 and ending at nucleotide 7650 and corresponds to a previously characterized 35S transcript of the CabbB-JI strain of CaMV. The second transcript, 35S-2, begins and ends near nucleotide 8000 on the genome map. The third and fourth 35S RNAs, 35S-3, and 35S-4, have their 5' ends lying, respectively, at approximately nucleotides 1200 and 2100, while their 3' ends lie near nucleotides 1300 and 1900. In addition to the four characterized 35S RNAs, we present evidence for a fifth 35S RNA which may begin and end near nucleotide 5700.
Magnesium cation induced conformational change of yeast tRNAPhe as studied by singlet-singlet energy transfer.	The A76 or A73 nucleotide at the 3'end of tRNAPhe was modified with the fluorescent reagent of proflavine (PF). The distance between the fluorophore of the 3'end and the Y base was measured by singlet-singlet energy transfer under the conditions of 10 mM and 0.01 mM Mg2+. The distance obtained at 10 mM Mg2+ is very close to that obtained by the X-ray diffraction method, while the distance at 0.01 mM Mg2+ is significantly smaller. The difference in the distance is explained as a result of destabilization of the tertiary structure with reduction of the Mg2+ concentration. The calculated distance between A73 and A76 shows the stacked conformation of the CCA strand. Fluorescent quenching experiments showed that the degree of stabilization of 3'end A76 by stacking is lower than that of A73. The removal of the CCA segment causes a difference not only in the thermal melting curves but also in the fluorescent wavelength of the Y base at 0.01 mM Mg2+. The results suggest that the 3'end CCA strand has a helical structure and contributes to the stabilization of the whole structure of tRNAPhe.
Primary structure of three tRNAs from brewer's yeast: tRNAPro2, tRNAHis1 and tRNAHis2.	The primary structures of three brewer's yeast tRNAs: tRNAPro2 and tRNAHis1 and 2 have been determined (Formula:see text) The U* in the anticodon U*-G-G of tRNAPro2 is probably a derivative of U; tRNAPro2 has 80 per cent homology with mammalian tRNAsPro. tRNAHis1 and tRNAHis2 differ by only 5 nucleotides; they have identical anticodons and may therefore recognize both codons for histidine; they have an additional nucleotide at the 5' end. As in all other sequenced tRNAsHis this nucleotide is not paired with the fourth nucleotide from acceptor adenosine. All three sequenced tRNAs have a low degree of homology with their counterparts from yeast mitochondria.
Glutaraldehyde nonfixation of isolated viral and yeast RNAs.	The RNAs of brome mosaic (BMV), barley stripe mosaic (BSMV), and tobacco mosaic (TMV) viruses were inactivated by reaction with buffered glutaraldehyde. Glutaraldehyde did not fix 4% BMV-RNA, 20% t-RNA, 5% polyadenylic acid, or 5% adenosine monophosphate into water-insoluble precipitates, or gels, in distilled water or in low or high ionic strength buffers nor did it change their ultraviolet (UV) spectra. Two SDS- and phenol-purified commercial yeast RNA preparations from different sources gave UV spectra typical of pure RNA, but could not be freed of a contaminant that reacted with glutaraldehyde by forming a precipitate. The yeast RNAs did not become water-insoluble after glutaraldehyde reaction. BMV-RNA precipitated by Mg2+ could not be cross-linked into an insoluble form by glutaraldehyde. Nonfixation of RNA by glutaraldehyde must be considered in interpretation of attempts to localize RNA by electron microscopy.
Nucleotide sequence of Dictyostelium discoideum 5.8S ribosomal ribonucleic acid: evolutionary and secondary structural implications.	We have determined the nucleotide sequence of the Dictyostelium discoideum 5.8S ribosomal RNA (rRNA). The sequence has relatively low homology with other 5.8S rRNAs and is further distinguished by its lack of modified nucleotides. The homology data indicate that D. discoideum diverged from the mainstream of eukaryotic descent at the earliest branch yet characterized by molecular phylogeny. Taking advantage of the considerable divergence of the D. discoideum 5.8S rRNA sequence from those of other eukaryotes, we have concluded that there is very little phylogenetically conserved, intramolecular secondary structure. This conclusion is discussed in the light of the variety of evidence for a highly ordered structure of 5.8S rRNA in vitro. We also offer comparative evidence in support of a specific model for the base pairing between the 3' end of 5.8S rRNA and the 5' end of eukaryotic 28S rRNA.
Correlation between the presence of a self-splicing intron in the 25S rDNA of C.albicans and strains susceptibility to 5-fluorocytosine.	Candida albicans presents a well characterized EcoRI RFLP pattern of intensely staining bands. One of these bands, the dimorphic 3.7/4.2 kbp fragment shown to originate from the ribosomal RNA-encoding regions (rDNA), has been used by several investigators to subdivide C. albicans strains in two distinct subtypes. In the present manuscript, we report that an epidemiological study of 120 C.albicans strains revealed a significant correlation between these subtypes and susceptibility to 5-fluorocytosine, an antifungal agent extensively used for biotyping C.albicans. The 4.2 kbp strains being generally more susceptible than their counterparts to this agent and one of its metabolic by-product, 5-fluorouracil. A 379 nucleotides insertion in the 25S rRNA-encoding gene of 4.2 kbp type strains was shown to be responsible for the 3.7/4.2 size difference. This intervening sequence is typical of a group I intron by its site of insertion, its predicted secondary structure, and its self-splicing capability. Assuming there is a genuine causal relationship between presence of the intron and resistance to 5-fluorocytosine, one possible mechanism suggests that inhibition of self-splicing by the insertion of 5-fluorouracil residues in the 25S rRNA precursor might be responsible for the higher susceptibility of 4.2 kbp type strains.
The in vivo use of alternate 3'-splice sites in group I introns.	Alternative splicing of group I introns has been postulated as a possible mechanism that would ensure the translation of proteins encoded into intronic open reading frames, discontinuous with the upstream exon and lacking an initiation signal. Alternate splice sites were previously depicted according to secondary structures of several group I introns. We present here strong evidence that, in the case of Podospora anserina nad 1-i4 and cox1-i7 mitochondrial introns, alternative splicing events do occur in vivo. Indeed, by PCR experiments we have detected molecules whose sequence is precisely that expected if the predicted alternate 3'-splice sites were used.
Isolation and nucleotide sequences of the genes encoding killer toxins from Hansenula mrakii and H. saturnus.	The HMK gene, encoding a killer toxin (HMK) of Hansenula mrakii strain IFO 0895, and the HSK gene, encoding a killer toxin (HSK) of H. saturnus strain IFO 0117, were cloned and sequenced. The HMK and HSK genes encode precursors to killer toxins of 125 amino acids (aa) and 124 aa, respectively. Both precursors have an N-terminal signal sequence of 37 aa which may be removed by a signal peptidase, and a propeptide which may be cleaved off by a KEX2-like protease. There is extensive homology between the aa sequences of HMK and HSK with the exception of the addition of one aa residue in HMK. The HMK and HSK genes were placed, separately, downstream from the yeast GAL10 promoter and introduced into a mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae that was resistant to the HMK. The transformants were capable of killing sensitive yeasts in medium that contained galactose with killing spectra similar to those of the donor strains of the toxins. These observations suggest that both killer toxins were synthesized and secreted from S. cerevisiae cells and killed sensitive yeasts, perhaps by the same mechanism as that associated with the donor strains and, moreover, that the difference in primary structure between the two toxins is responsible for the difference in their killing spectra.
A putative new membrane protein, Pho86p, in the inorganic phosphate uptake system of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The PHO84 gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes the P(i) transporter Pho84p. The other three genes, GTR1, PHO86 and PHO87, are also suggested to be involved in the P(i) uptake system. We cloned and sequenced PHO86 and found that it encodes a 34-kDa protein consisting of 311 amino acid residues with two strongly hydrophobic segments in its N-terminal half. Western blotting analysis of cell extracts revealed that Pho86p, tagged with c-Myc, was fractionated into a water-insoluble fraction. Disruption of PHO86 did not affect cell viability even in combination with the pho84 and/or pho87 disruptions. The triple disruptants showed high levels of constitutive rAPase synthesis and arsenate resistance similar to the pho84 mutant, but showed slower cell growth than the pho84 mutant. PHO86 has two putative binding sites for the transcriptional activator, Pho4p, at nucleotide positions -191 and -497 relative to the ATG start codon, and showed substantial levels of transcription under high-P(i) conditions and more enhanced levels in low-P(i) medium.
Rox3 and Rts1 function in the global stress response pathway in baker's yeast.	Yeast respond to a variety of stresses through a global stress response that is mediated by a number of signal transduction pathways and the cis-acting STRE DNA sequence. The CYC7 gene, encoding iso-2-cytochrome c, has been demonstrated to respond to heat shock, glucose starvation, approach-to-stationary phase, and, as we demonstrate here, to osmotic stress. This response was delayed in a the hog1-delta 1 strain implicating the Hog1 mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade, a known component of the global stress response. Deletion analysis of the CYC7 regulatory region suggested that three STRE elements were each capable of inducing the stress response. Mutations in the ROX3 gene prevented CYC7 RNA accumulation during heat shock and osmotic stress. ROX3 RNA levels were shown to be induced by stress through a novel regulatory element. A selection for high-copy suppressors of a ROX3 temperature-sensitive allele resulted in the isolation of RTS1, encoding a protein with homology to the B' regulatory subunit of protein phosphatase 2A0. Deletion of RTS1 caused temperature and osmotic sensitivity and increased accumulation of CYC7 RNA under all conditions. Over-expression of this gene caused increased CYC7 RNA accumulation in rox3 mutants but not in wild-type cells.
