Plus and minus RNAs of peach latent mosaic viroid self-cleave in vitro via hammerhead structures.	Peach latent mosaic viroid (PLMVd), the causal agent of peach latent mosaic disease, has been sequenced and found to be a circular RNA molecule of 337 nucleotide residues, which adopts a branched conformation when it is folded in the model of lowest free energy. PLMVd exhibits limited homologies with other viroids and some satellite RNAs, but it does not have any of the central conserved sequences characteristic of the subgroups of typical viroids. However, a segment of approximately one-third of the PLMVd sequence has the elements required to form in the RNAs of both polarities the hammerhead structures proposed to act in the in vitro self-cleavage of avocado sunblotch viroid (ASBVd) and some satellite RNAs. Plus and minus partial- and full-length RNA transcripts of PLMVd containing the hammerhead structures displayed self-cleavage during transcription and after purification as predicted by these structures. These data are consistent with the high stability of the PLMVd hammerhead structures, more similar to the corresponding structures of some satellite RNAs than to those of ASBVd, and indicate that the self-cleavage reactions of PLMVd are most probably mediated by single hammerhead structures. Our results support the inclusion of PLMVd in a viroid subgroup represented by ASBVd, whose members are characterized by their ability to self-cleave in vitro, and probably in vivo, through hammerhead structures. A consensus phylogenetic tree has been obtained suggesting that PLMVd, together with ASBVd, may represent an evolutionary link between viroids and viroid-like satellite RNAs.
Biologically active cymbidium ringspot virus satellite RNA in transgenic plants suppresses accumulation of DI RNA.	A full-length DNA copy of cymbidium ringspot virus (CyRSV) satellite RNA was cloned downstream of the bacteriophage T7 RNA polymerase promoter. In vitro transcripts were biologically active in plants when coinoculated with the helper virus or its RNA. Although the transcripts contained 7 or 29 extra nucleotides at the 3' end, the proper 3' terminus was restored in the satRNA progeny. Full-length cDNA clones of CyRSV satRNA under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and terminator were used to transform Nicotiana benthamiana plants. Integration of CyRSV satRNA sequence in the plant genome was tested by PCR amplification of DNA extracts from transformed plants and by detection of satRNA-related transcripts in total RNA extracts. Inoculation of transgenic plants with the helper virus induced replication of satRNA of the same size as the native molecule. Sequence analysis of the satRNA progeny showed that it was identical to natural CyRSV satRNA. Infected transgenic plants were not protected from apical necrosis and death by the presence of satRNA sequences. Rather, replication of satRNA was found to suppress accumulation of defective interfering RNA, which acts in the absence of satRNA as an attenuator of virus replication and disease.
Complete replication of a satellite RNA in vitro by a purified RNA-dependent RNA polymerase.	The 334 nucleotide R satellite RNA was used as a template for purified RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) from cucumber mosaic virus-infected tobacco plants. The products of the reaction were dsRNA and positive-strand RNA of the same size as the R satellite RNA. Similar products were obtained when T7 RNA polymerase positive-strand transcripts of a cDNA clone of the satellite RNA, designed to have the same 5' and 3' ends as the satellite RNA, were used as templates. The formation of the positive strands demonstrates complete replication of the satellite RNA. A positive-strand transcript with 65 and 255 additional nucleotides at the 5' and 3' ends of the satellite RNA respectively was also utilized as a template by the RdRp, but only dsRNA was formed. However, no products could be detected when the RdRp was programmed with transcripts corresponding to the negative-strand satellite RNA, either with no additional terminal nucleotides or with 24 and 310 additional nucleotides at the 5' and 3' ends respectively.
Differential replication in zucchini squash of a cucumber mosaic virus satellite RNA maps to RNA 1 of the helper virus.	Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) supports the replication and encapsidation of its satellite RNA, both in solanaceous and cucurbit host plants; however, different strains of CMV support the replication of satellite RNAs with different efficiency. In addition, replication of satellite RNA is very efficient in solanaceous host plants and generally poor in cucurbit host plants. The WL1-satellite (WL1-sat) RNA is an exception, and replicates to high levels in both solanaceous and curcubit host plants with most CMV strains as the helper virus. Two strains of CMV were used in this study: Fny-CMV, which replicates the WL1-sat RNA efficiently in all hosts tested; and Sny-CMV, which does not replicate the WL1-sat RNA to detectable levels in zucchini squash (Cucurbita pepo), but does replicate WL1-sat RNA efficiently in other hosts. Using pseudorecombinants constructed between Fny-CMV and Sny-CMV we have mapped to RNA 1 the ability to support the efficient replication of WL1-sat RNA in zucchini squash.
Replication of cucumber mosaic virus satellite RNA in vitro by an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase from virus-infected tobacco.	An RNA-dependent RNA polymerase purified from tobacco infected with cucumber mosaic virus catalyzes the synthesis of (-) and (+) strands of the viral satellite RNA, CARNA 5, but fails to replicate the satellite RNA of peanut stunt virus (PSV). The enzyme replicates the genomic RNAs of the three principal cucumoviruses CMV, PSV and tomato aspermy virus (TAV) with varying efficiencies. The specificity with which CMV RdRp replicates different sequence-unrelated RNA templates suggests that the site of their recognition requires secondary or higher level structural organization.
Requirement of a 3'-terminal stem-loop in in vitro transcription by an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase.	Partially purified RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) isolated from plants infected with turnip crinkle virus (TCV) is capable of template-dependent synthesis of TCV-associated RNAs. To determine the cis-sequences required for the synthesis of TCV satellite (sat-) RNA C (-) strands in vitro, templates containing interior deletions were subjected to transcription using RdRp-active fractions. Results indicated that the promoter for (-)-strand synthesis was contained within the 3'-terminal 29 bases of the (+)-strand. Structural probing by enzymatic digestion and chemical modification revealed the presence of a hairpin structure within this terminal region. Compensatory exchanges of four bases in the lower stem or alterations in the sequence and size of the loop region did not affect in vitro transcription, implying that the primary sequence in the loop and lower part of the stem is not important for interaction with the viral RdRp. However, single mutations in the base of the stem or double mutations in the upper stem strongly reduced template activity in vitro, suggesting that the stability of the hairpin is an important functional consideration. Relocation of the 3'-terminal 37 bases containing this stem-loop to inactive template RNA rendered the resultant hybrid RNA competent for in vitro transcription by RdRp activity, suggesting that the promoter for (-)-strand synthesis in vitro is completely contained within the 3'-terminal region.
Expression of tobacco ringspot virus capsid protein and satellite RNA in insect cells and three-dimensional structure of tobacco ringspot virus-like particles.	The capsid protein gene of tobacco ringspot virus (TobRV), which had been modified to contain an amino-terminal methionine codon, was ligated into a baculovirus transfer vector downstream from the polyhedrin promoter. The resulting plasmid was cotransfected with linearized baculovirus DNA into insect cells. Recombinant baculovirus expressed high levels of the TobRV capsid protein that assembled to form virus-like particles that were similar in size and shape to authentic TobRV capsids. These virus-like particles did not encapsidate any RNA, including the capsid protein mRNA. The capsid protein mRNA is a truncated RNA 2, which may lack a putative encapsidation signal. To determine whether an intact packaging substrate could be encapsidated by the TobRV capsid protein, another recombinant baculovirus, concomitantly expressing both capsid protein and TobRV satellite RNA, was constructed. Surprisingly, the vast majority of the satellite RNA molecules expressed from this recombinant baculovirus were ligated in the insect cells to form circular RNA molecules. Like circular forms of satellite RNA generated in planta, these circular satellite molecules remained unencapsidated by the TobRV capsid protein. Computer-generated three-dimensional reconstruction using electron cryomicrographs of the empty virus-like particles allowed the first structural analyses of any nepovirus capsid. This 22-A resolution reconstruction resembled capsids of other members of the picornavirus superfamily. These data support the hypothesis that the nepovirus capsid is structurally analogous to those of the como- and picornaviruses.
Replication of satellite RNA in vitro by homologous and heterologous cucumoviral RNA-dependent RNA polymerases.	The RNA-dependent RNA polymerases (RdRp) of cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) and peanut stunt virus (PSV), members of the cucumovirus group, have been purified from virus infected plants and were used to study RNA synthesis in vitro using different viral RNAs, two cucumoviral satellites, and chimeric satellite cDNA clone transcripts as templates. The results show that solubilized RdRp preparations of CMV and PSV have a high degree of template dependency and catalyze (-) strand synthesis of the homologous cucumoviral RNAs with greater efficiency than the RNAs of heterologous cucumoviruses, although the PSV RdRp exhibits a lesser specificity than the CMV RdRp. On the other hand, both (-) and (+) strands of the satellite RNAs of CMV and PSV are synthesized by their homologous but not by the heterologous viral RdRps, indicating that recognition of satellites by the viral RdRp determines their replicative dependence upon specific helper viruses. Cucumoviral RdRp reactions using chimeric satellite transcripts suggest that the promoter structure for the satellite (-) strand synthesis resides in regions harboring the 3' termini of the two satellites.
Replication of cucumber mosaic virus satellite RNA from negative-sense transcripts produced either in vitro or in transgenic plants.	Both positive [(+)] and negative [(-)] sense versions of two satellite RNA (satRNA) genes from cucumber mosaic virus (CMV), the necrogenic I17N and the nonnecrogenic R, have been introduced into the genome of tobacco plants. On infection with satRNA-free CMV, satRNA was amplified in plants expressing each of the four genes. All four genes confer protection against CMV infection. However, co-inoculation of plants with viral RNA and CMV satRNA transcripts synthesized in vitro showed that (-) sense transcripts were less active than the corresponding (+) sense transcripts. This is the first report that (-) sense CMV satRNA transcripts can serve as a template for satRNA replication.
Structural features unique to a new 405-nucleotide satellite RNA of cucumber mosaic virus inducing tomato necrosis.	The complete nucleotide sequence of a new satellite RNA (KN-satRNA) of cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) strain KN, isolated from tomato plants showing severe necrosis, has been determined by the analysis of a full-length cDNA clone from which biologically active transcript was produced. KN-satRNA was 405 nucleotides and is the largest among the known CMV-satRNAs. Comparison of the sequence with D-CARNA5 (335 nucleotides) revealed three extensive homologous regions, which were the 5' region (position 1-80), the 3' half (position 213-405), and a middle section (position 116-177) of the molecule. The total length of the three regions covers almost the entire molecule of D-CARNA5. Thus, it is apparent that insertions would occur at two sites of D-CARNA5, positions 81-86 and 146, to evolve the larger size satRNA. These insertions did not alter the proposed secondary structure model of Q-satRNA. The in vitro transcript of the cDNA clone of KN-satRNA induced necrosis on tomato which was identical to that of native KN-satRNA. The 3'half of the RNA contained the "necrogenic consensus" sequence reported for other satRNAs, to which the pathogenicity of KN-satRNA may be attributed.
Requirement of 3'-terminal guanosine in (-)-stranded RNA for in vitro replication of cucumber mosaic virus satellite RNA by viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase.	The 3' terminus of the (-) RNA strand in the replicative forms of several (+)-stranded RNA viruses possesses an unpaired guanosine with unknown function. This unpaired guanosine is also found at the 3' terminus of the (-) strand in the double-stranded form of two cucumoviral satellite RNAs. Using a cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) RNA-dependent RNA polymerase capable of replicating the satellite RNA in vitro, the 3'-terminal guanosine of the satellite (-) strand was shown to be an absolute requirement for satellite (+) strand synthesis. If genomic RNA synthesis of CMV and other members of the alphavirus-like superfamily that produce (-) strands terminating in an unpaired 3' guanosine follows a similar strategy, the work reported here would represent the first experimental support for the notion of 3'-terminal guanosine functioning as an essential recognition signal for viral replicases, enabling (+) strand RNA synthesis to be initiated internally from a (-) strand template.
