Hammerhead ribozyme against gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase sensitizes human colonic cancer cells to cisplatin by down-regulating both the glutathione synthesis and the expression of multidrug resistance proteins.	Multidrug resistance in cancer cells is often associated with an elevation in the concentration of glutathione (GSH) and the expression of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (gamma-GCS), a rate-limiting enzyme for GSH. We constructed a hammerhead ribozyme against a gamma-GCS heavy subunit (gamma-GCSh) mRNA transcript and transfected it to human colonic cancer cells (HCT8DDP) resistant to cisplatin (CDDP). The effect of the ribozyme transfection on the drug resistance of cancer cells was studied. (a) Transfection of the ribozyme decreased the GSH level and the efflux of CDDP-GSH adduct, resulting in higher sensitivity of the cells to CDDP. (b) The transfection suppressed the expression of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) family of transporters such as MRP1, MRP2, and MDR1, and stimulated the expression of mutant p53. (c) An electrophoretic mobility shift assay showed that mutant p53 suppresses the SP1-DNA binding activity, suggesting that this mutant p53 is functional and it, in turn, suppresses the expression of ABC transporters. Collectively, transfection of anti-gamma-GCSh ribozyme reduced the synthesis of GSH and the expression of ABC transporters, which causes an increase in the sensitivity of cancer cells to anticancer drugs. Suppression of the SP1-DNA binding activity by p53 may be a factor of down-regulation of ABC transporters.
Ribozyme-mediated telomerase inhibition induces immediate cell loss but not telomere shortening in ovarian cancer cells.	Telomerase is a promising target for human cancer gene therapy. Its inhibition allows telomere shortening to occur in cancer cells, which in turn is thought to trigger delayed senescence and/or apoptosis. We tested whether telomerase inhibition might have additional, immediate effects on tumor cell growth. Ovarian cancer cell lines with widely differing telomere lengths were efficiently transduced with an adenovirus expressing a ribozyme directed against the T motif of the catalytic subunit of human telomerase, hTERT. Three days after transduction, telomerase activity was significantly reduced and massive cell loss was induced in mass cultures from all four ovarian cancer cell lines tested, whereas transduction of telomerase-negative human fibroblasts did not attenuate their growth. The kinetics of induction of cell death in cancer cells was not significantly dependent on telomere length, and telomeres did not shorten measurably before the onset of apoptosis. The data suggest the existence of a "fast-track" mechanism by which diminution of telomerase can interfere with cancer cell growth and induce cell death, presumably by apoptosis. This phenomenon might be a consequence of the telomere capping function provided by telomerase in tumor cells. Uncapping of telomeres by ribozyme-mediated inhibition of telomerase bears therapeutic potential for ovarian cancer.
Blocking Chk1 expression induces apoptosis and abrogates the G2 checkpoint mechanism.	Checkpoint kinase 1 (Chk1) is a checkpoint gene that is activated after DNA damage. It phosphorylates and inactivates the Cdc2 activating phosphatase Cdc25C. This in turn inactivates Cdc2, which leads to G2/M arrest. We report that blocking Chk1 expression by antisense or ribozymes in mammalian cells induces apoptosis and interferes with the G2/M arrest induced by adriamycin. The Chk1 inhibitor UCN-01 also blocks the G2 arrest after DNA damage and renders cells more susceptible to adriamycin. These results indicate that Chk1 is an essential gene for the checkpoint mechanism during normal cell proliferation as well as in the DNA damage response.
Down-regulation of Fas-L in glioma cells by ribozyme reduces cell apoptosis, tumour-infiltrating cells, and liver damage but accelerates tumour formation in nude mice.	Fas-L (CD95L, APO-1L) expresses in a variety of tumours and has been proposed to play a role in tumour formation and metastasis. The contribution of Fas-L to tumour growth, however, is not conclusive especially in systems using cells with over-expressed Fas-L. In this study we down-regulated the expression o Fas-L in human glioma cells by a hammerhead ribozyme (Fas-L(ribozyme)) targeting against Fas-L mRNA. Fas-L(ribozyme)-carrying cells exhibited slightly enhanced growth rate and less degree of spontaneous apoptosis in vitro as compared with vector controls. In nude mice, Fas-L(ribozyme)-carrying cells grew faster with lesser apoptosis, formed bigger tumour with significantly fewer infiltrating cells in the tumour area, and triggered relatively milder tumour-associated liver damage than vector controls did. Thus, down-regulation of Fas-L not only improved viability of glioma cells but also reduces local immune responses that may consequently affect tumour formation. Taken together, our findings imply that endogenous expression of Fas-L in malignant cells is not always growth promoting.
Sp1 regulates expression of MET, and ribozyme-induced down-regulation of MET in fibrosarcoma-derived human cells reduces or eliminates their tumorigenicity.	Changes in expression of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and its receptor, MET, are associated with formation and malignant progression of human tumors. In the present study, 10 of 11 human fibrosarcoma cell lines tested expressed significantly higher levels of MET than were found in a series of normal human fibroblast lines. Still more significant, MET was constitutively phosphorylated in all 11 fibrosarcoma lines, whereas the normal fibroblasts exhibited very low levels of the phosphorylated form. All the cell lines expressed HGF mRNA. To determine the role of MET and/or HGF in tumorigenesis, a fibrosarcoma line expressing high levels of MET protein and low levels of HGF/NK2 mRNA was stably transfected with a hammerhead ribozyme targeting MET. In addition, a fibrosarcoma line expressing high levels of both MET protein and HGF/NK2 mRNA was transfected with a ribozyme targeting MET, or with a ribozyme targeting MET and another targeting HGF. The transfectant cell lines no longer formed tumors, or did so at a greatly reduced frequency and/or longer latency. Because Sp1 is a transcription factor for MET, we assayed the cell lines for their level of Sp1 protein. Sp1 was markedly overexpressed in 7 of the 11 fibrosarcoma lines compared to normal fibroblast lines. Deletion analysis and site-directed mutagenesis of the MET promoter revealed that tandem Sp1 sites in the proximal promoter are critical for transcription of MET. Increased expression of Sp1 in a normal human fibroblast line containing a MET promoter-luciferase construct resulted in a dose-dependent increase in luciferase. Conversely, inhibition of Sp1 binding to DNA in a fibrosarcoma cell line, using an Sp1 decoy, dramatically reduced MET expression. Taken together, these results indicate that in human fibrosarcoma cells, high levels of the phosphorylated form of MET are required for tumor formation and that Sp1 can function to control the level of MET.
Assessing adenoviral hammerhead ribozyme and small hairpin RNA cassettes in neurons: inhibition of endogenous caspase-3 activity and protection from apoptotic cell death.	Antisense technology, including ribozyme and small interfering RNA, is being developed to mediate the down-regulation of specific intracellular genes. It was observed in this study that both antiluciferase ribozymes and short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) could significantly reduce the activity of exogenously expressed luciferase in primary hippocampal neurons in a viral titer-dependent manner. shRNAs were more effective gene-silencing agents than ribozymes, although they exhibited some nonspecific gene-silencing effects at high viral titers. We also attempted to increase ribozyme efficacy by using a woodchuck hepatitis posttranscriptional regulatory element (WPRE) in the ribozyme expression cassette. The results showed that adenoviral vectors encoding specific ribozymes could silence the cellular expression of luciferase and endogenous procaspase-3 significantly. Furthermore, the antiprocaspase-3 ribozyme was shown to inhibit staurosporine-mediated cell death. The addition of a WPRE did not, however, increase or decrease ribozyme activity. As far as we are aware, this is the first example of adenovirally mediated delivery of hammerhead ribozymes being used to manipulate gene expression in primary neurons. The results therefore suggest that hammerhead ribozymes may be useful tools for studying neuronal gene function and have potential as therapeutic agents to treat CNS diseases.
Cathepsin B promotes both motility and invasiveness of oral carcinoma cells.	We previously demonstrated that overexpression of cathepsin B (CB) protease in oral squamous cell carcinomas correlated positively with advanced tumor stage and poor histologic malignancy grade. Here we examined whether CB contributes to the invasiveness of oral carcinoma cells. For RNA-mediated inhibition, two ribozymes that target CB mRNA were designed and stably expressed in the oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line 1386Tu. Both ribozymes diminished expression of CB mRNA, protein, and activity, without affecting cathepsin D or beta-actin, as determined by quantitative real-time PCR, Western blots, and protease activity assays. Matrigel invasion assays showed that the invasiveness of the cells was significantly reduced by the expressed ribozymes and, surprisingly, the motilities of the ribozyme-transfected cells were also diminished. Our results document a direct role for CB in promoting oral cancer spread and invasion, and open the possibility of controlling oral carcinoma malignancy and metastasis by targeting CB with RNA inhibitor strategies.
Strategies for suppressing angiogenesis in gynecological cancers.	Angiogenesis is vital for numerous physiological and pathological processes, including proliferation, invasion and metastasis in malignancies. Various strategies to suppress angiogenesis are under evaluation in gynecological malignancies, and ovarian cancer--the deadliest of them--has been the focus. Interruption of interaction between vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and VEGF receptor (VEGFR) with a monoclonal antibody, bevacizumab, has so far been the most promising antiangiogenic strategy in ovarian cancer clinically but is overshadowed by higher than expected frequency of severe toxicities. Interception of VEGF with receptor decoys, such as VEGF-Trap, and inhibiting receptor tyrosine kinases for VEGF and related growth factors with small molecule inhibitors have shown encouraging results in early phase trials of ovarian cancer; validation is ongoing in larger studies. Another approach is targeting pre-mRNA for VEGF receptors with ribozyme (angiozyme). The knowledge gained from developing these different classes of antiangiogenic agents will lay the path to future trials of other types of gynecological cancers.
Anti-oncogene and tumor suppressor gene therapy--examples from a lung cancer animal model.	Rapid advances in cancer gene therapy are driven by an explosive development of gene transfer technology and a strong demand for effective alternatives to unsatisfactory conventional cancer therapies. Discovery of the genetic basis of cancer has indicated that cancer is a disease of genes. Among a variety of approaches to gene therapy of cancer, anti-oncogene and tumor suppressor gene therapy of cancer are the two strategies that aim at correcting genetic disorders of cancer. The potential effectiveness of these approaches is promised by their precise targeting at the mechanisms of the disease. Successful examples of human lung cancer animal models by applying anti-K-ras retrovirus and recombinant p53 adenovirus are reviewed. Future development of these approaches towards clinical application is also discussed.
Inhibition of mouse hepatitis virus multiplication by antisense oligonucleotide, antisense RNA, sense RNA and ribozyme.	Antisense nucleic acids against specific sequences of mouse hepatitis virus (MHV)-RNAs were tested for their inhibitory effects on viral multiplication in mouse DBT cells. An antisense oligonucleotide containing a sequence complementary to leader RNA was synthesized and shown to induce a significant inhibitory effect on the multiplication of MHV-JHM. A vector which expressed the antisense or sense mRNA7 of MHV was transfected into DBT cells. A decreased multiplication of MHV was observed in both cell lines. The transfected cell line which expressed ribozyme against the 5'-end of the MHV genome was established. The rate of inhibition of MHV-multiplication and the quantity of synthesized virus-specific mRNAs in this transfected cell line were the same for both antisense and sense RNA. These results show that antisense nucleic acids might be eligible for use as antiviral agents against MHV multiplication.
