Regulation of an aspartyl-tRNA species in BHK cells in culture and in solid tumor form. II. The effect of different sera on aspartyl-tRNA in culture.	In normal tissues aspartyl tRNA is present in 3 separable components by RPC-5-chromatography, 2 small and early eluting peaks and a major component designated rRNAAspIII. A late eluting peak, tRNAAspIV has also been found in many tumors of human and animals origin, and in BHK 21/13 cells grown in culture, where 27% or more of the total aspartate acceptance occurs in this peak. In contrast, normal tissue studied, i.e., hamster liver or kidney, exhibits less than 2.0% of the total aspartyl tRNA as the late eluting tRNAAspIV. Increasing the level of fetal calf serum in the medium from 5 to 15% resulted in a change from 0.79 to 1.83 in the ratio of tRNAAspIII--tRNAAspIV in BHK cells. Utilizing sera from different species, the percentage of tRNAAspIV was found to vary between 26.8 and 66.0% while the combined percentages of tRNAAspIII and tRNAAspIV varied between 59.5 and 80.8%. It appears that the increased tRNAAspIII was derived from tRNAAspIV and vice versa indicating that there may be a close structural relationship between tRNAAspIII and tRNAAspIV. It was also observed that BHK tumor cells or ascitic fluid enhanced the appearance of tRNAAspIV in normal host liver.
Ser-tRNAs from bovine mitochondrion form ternary complexes with bacterial elongation factor Tu and GTP.	Transfer ribonucleic acids were isolated from mitochondria of bovine heart and aminoacylated in vitro by a crude mitochondrial enzyme. Ser-tRNASerUCN and Ser-tRNASerAGY were isolated and characterized by partial sequencing. Although these tRNAs possess unique structural features not found in any bacterial tRNA, they form a ternary complex with elongation factor from the extreme thermophilic bacterium Thermus thermophilus and GTP.
Purification of individual tRNAs using a monoclonal anti-AMP antibody affinity column.	A murine monoclonal anti-AMP antibody affinity matrix was used for isolation of individual species of amino acid transfer nucleic acids (tRNAs). The antibodies had been prepared using 5'-AMP covalently attached to bovine serum albumin as antigen and exhibited high affinity for 5'-AMP but greatly reduced affinity for 3'-AMP. Native uncharged tRNAs that terminate in a 5'-AMP group on the amino acid acceptor arm of the molecule bind tightly to the anti-AMP affinity matrix, whereas aminoacylated tRNAs are not retained. This allows separation of a particular tRNA species as its aminoacyl derivative from a complex mixture of uncharged tRNAs under very mild conditions.
Primary structure of three tRNAs from brewer's yeast: tRNAPro2, tRNAHis1 and tRNAHis2.	The primary structures of three brewer's yeast tRNAs: tRNAPro2 and tRNAHis1 and 2 have been determined (Formula:see text) The U* in the anticodon U*-G-G of tRNAPro2 is probably a derivative of U; tRNAPro2 has 80 per cent homology with mammalian tRNAsPro. tRNAHis1 and tRNAHis2 differ by only 5 nucleotides; they have identical anticodons and may therefore recognize both codons for histidine; they have an additional nucleotide at the 5' end. As in all other sequenced tRNAsHis this nucleotide is not paired with the fourth nucleotide from acceptor adenosine. All three sequenced tRNAs have a low degree of homology with their counterparts from yeast mitochondria.
Isolation and characterization of individual tRNA Leu 1,2,and 4 from the bovine udder]	tRNA-Leu 1, tRNA-Leu 2 and tRNA-Leu 4 were isolated from a lactating cow mammary gland by combination of several chromatographic methods. Chromatography on a Sepharose 4B column with a reverse salt gradient was used as the first step. Individual tRNAsLeu were further purified by RPC-5 column chromatography at pH 4.5 and 7.5. For isolation of tRNA-Leu 2 a RPC-5 column was additionally used at pH 3.3 in the presence of 7 M urea. Using micro-column chromatography of Ti-RNAases digests, it was demonstrated that tRNA-Leu 1 and tRNA-Leu 2+ are similar in their primary structure and differ essentially from tRNA-Leu 4.
Widespread use of the glu-tRNAGln transamidation pathway among bacteria. A member of the alpha purple bacteria lacks glutaminyl-trna synthetase.	The expression of the Rhizobium meliloti glutamyl-tRNA synthetase gene in Escherichia coli under the control of a trc promoter results in a toxic effect upon isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside induction, which is probably caused by a misacylation activity. To further investigate this unexpected result, we looked at the pathway of Gln-tRNAGln formation in R. meliloti. No glutaminyl-tRNA synthetase activity has been found in R. meliloti crude extract, but we detected a specific aminotransferase activity that changes Glu-tRNAGln to Gln-tRNAGln. Our results show that R. meliloti, a member of the alpha-subdivision of the purple bacteria, is the first Gram-negative bacteria reported to use a transamidation pathway for Gln-tRNAGln synthesis. A phylogenetic analysis of the contemporary glutamyl-tRNA synthetase and glutaminyl-tRNA synthetase amino acid sequences reveals that a close evolutionary relationship exists between R. meliloti and yeast mitochondrial glutamyl-tRNA synthetases, which is consistent with an origin of mitochondria in the alpha-subdivision of Gram-negative purple bacteria. A 256-amino acid open reading frame closely related to bacterial glutamyl-tRNA synthetases, which probably originates from a glutamyl-tRNA synthetase gene duplication, was found in the 4-min region of the E. coli chromosome. We suggest that this open reading frame is a relic of an ancient transamidation pathway that occurred in an E. coli ancestor before the horizontal transfer of a eukaryotic glutaminyl-tRNA synthetase (Lamour, V., Quevillon, S., Diriong, S., N'Guyen, V. C., Lipinski, M., and Mirande, M.(1994) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 91, 8670-8674) and that it favored its stable acquisition. From these observations, a revisited model for the evolution of the contemporary glutamyl-tRNA synthetases and glutaminyl-tRNA synthetases that differs from the generally accepted model for the evolution of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases is proposed.
