A conserved small RNA promotes silencing of the outer membrane protein YbfM.	In the past few years an increasing number of small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) in enterobacteria have been found to negatively regulate the expression of outer membrane proteins (OMPs) at the post-transcriptional level. These RNAs act under various growth and stress conditions, suggesting that one important physiological role of regulatory RNA molecules in Gram-negative bacteria is to modulate the cell surface and/or to prevent accumulation of OMPs in the envelope. Here, we extend the OMP-sRNA network by showing that the expression of the OMP YbfM is silenced by a conserved sRNA, designated MicM (also known as RybC/SroB). The regulation is strictly dependent on the RNA chaperone Hfq, and mutational analysis indicates that MicM sequesters the ribosome binding site of ybfM mRNA by an antisense mechanism. Furthermore, we provide evidence that Hfq strongly enhances the on-rate of duplex formation between MicM and its target RNA in vitro, supporting the idea that a major cellular role of the RNA chaperone is to act as a catalyst in RNA-RNA duplex formation.
Small ncRNA expression and regulation under hypoxia in neural progenitor cells.	Small non-coding RNA (ncRNA) plays critical roles in a large number of cellular processes, including neural development, cell survival and cell determination. Our previous work showed that low oxygen promoted the survival and proliferation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) in vitro. In this study, we examine the expression and regulation of small ncRNAs in the hypoxia-driven proliferation of NPCs. The expression profiles of ncRNAs in NPCs under hypoxia were detected using microarray analysis. Results of significance analysis of microarrays (SAM) revealed that 15 small RNAs were up-regulated at least threefold and 11 were down-regulated under hypoxic conditions. The differentially expressed small ncRNAs were confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR, and miR-210 was observed to be highly expressed in NPCs under hypoxic conditions. Further study showed that hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1α had a direct impact on the putative promoter regions of miR-210. From these results, we conclude that some small ncRNAs participate in the regulation of the proliferation of NPCs under hypoxia and that miR-210 is directly regulated by HIF-1α.
Tumor suppressor p53 meets microRNAs.	Tumor suppressor p53 plays a central role in tumor prevention. As a transcription factor, p53 mainly exerts its function through transcription regulation of its target genes to initiate various cellular responses. To maintain its proper function, p53 is tightly regulated by a wide variety of regulators in cells. Thus, p53, its regulators and regulated genes form a complex p53 network which is composed of hundreds of genes and their products. microRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenously expressed, small non-coding RNA molecules which play a key role in regulation of gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. Recent studies have demonstrated that miRNAs interact with p53 and its network at multiple levels. p53 regulates the transcription expression and the maturation of a group of miRNAs. On the other hand, miRNAs can regulate the activity and function of p53 through direct repression of p53 or its regulators in cells. These findings have demonstrated that miRNAs are important components in the p53 network, and also added another layer of complexity to the p53 network.
The transposon-like Correia elements encode numerous strong promoters and provide a potential new mechanism for phase variation in the meningococcus.	Neisseria meningitidis is the primary causative agent of bacterial meningitis. The genome is rich in repetitive DNA and almost 2% is occupied by a diminutive transposon called the Correia element. Here we report a bioinformatic analysis defining eight subtypes of the element with four distinct types of ends. Transcriptional analysis, using PCR and a lacZ reporter system, revealed that two ends in particular encode strong promoters. The activity of the strongest promoter is dictated by a recurrent polymorphism (Y128) at the right end of the element. We highlight examples of elements that appear to drive transcription of adjacent genes and others that may express small non-coding RNAs. Pair-wise comparisons between three meningococcal genomes revealed that no more than two-thirds of Correia elements maintain their subtype at any particular locus. This is due to recombinational class switching between elements in a single strain. Upon switching subtype, a new allele is available to spread through the population by natural transformation. This process may represent a hitherto unrecognized mechanism for phase variation in the meningococcus. We conclude that the strain-to-strain variability of the Correia elements, and the large number of strong promoters encoded by them, allows for potentially widespread effects within the population as a whole. By defining the strength of the promoters encoded by the eight subtypes of Correia ends, we provide a resource that allows the transcriptional effects of a particular subtype at a given locus to be predicted.
Pseudomonas putida KT2440 genome update by cDNA sequencing and microarray transcriptomics.	Pseudomonas putida KT2440 is a completely sequenced biosafety strain that has retained its capability to survive and function in the environment. The global mRNA expression profiles of the KT2440 strain grown at 10°C and 30°C were determined by deep cDNA sequencing to refine the genome annotation. Transcriptome sequencing identified 36 yet unknown small non-coding RNAs, 143 novel ORFs in 106 intergenic regions, 42 unclassified genes and eight highly expressed leaderless mRNA transcripts. The genome coordinates of eight genes and the organization of 57 operons were corrected. No overrepresented sequence motifs were detected in the 5'-untranslated regions. The 50 most highly expressed genes made up 60% of the total mRNA pool. Comparison of cDNA sequencing, Affymetrix and Progenika microarray data from the same mRNA preparation revealed a higher sensitivity and specificity of cDNA sequencing, a relatively poor correlation between the normalized cDNA reads and microarray signal intensities, and a systematic signal-dependent bias of microarrays in the detection of differentially regulated genes. The study demonstrates the power of next-generation cDNA sequencing for the quantitation of mRNA transcripts and the refinement of bacterial genome annotation.
Connecting protein and mRNA burst distributions for stochastic models of gene expression.	The intrinsic stochasticity of gene expression can lead to large variability in protein levels for genetically identical cells. Such variability in protein levels can arise from infrequent synthesis of mRNAs which in turn give rise to bursts of protein expression. Protein expression occurring in bursts has indeed been observed experimentally and recent studies have also found evidence for transcriptional bursting, i.e. production of mRNAs in bursts. Given that there are distinct experimental techniques for quantifying the noise at different stages of gene expression, it is of interest to derive analytical results connecting experimental observations at different levels. In this work, we consider stochastic models of gene expression for which mRNA and protein production occurs in independent bursts. For such models, we derive analytical expressions connecting protein and mRNA burst distributions which show how the functional form of the mRNA burst distribution can be inferred from the protein burst distribution. Additionally, if gene expression is repressed such that observed protein bursts arise only from single mRNAs, we show how observations of protein burst distributions (repressed and unrepressed) can be used to completely determine the mRNA burst distribution. Assuming independent contributions from individual bursts, we derive analytical expressions connecting means and variances for burst and steady-state protein distributions. Finally, we validate our general analytical results by considering a specific reaction scheme involving regulation of protein bursts by small RNAs. For a range of parameters, we derive analytical expressions for regulated protein distributions that are validated using stochastic simulations. The analytical results obtained in this work can thus serve as useful inputs for a broad range of studies focusing on stochasticity in gene expression.
From Waddington's epigenetic landscape to small noncoding RNA: some important milestones in the history of epigenetics research.	The term epigenetics was coined in 1942 by C.H. Waddington in the context of studies on development. Since then, the meaning of epigenetics changed over time. In the beginning, epigenetics was viewed as a phenomenon above and beyond genetics. Epigenetic explanations were invoked when genetics could not explain a phenomenon. From the mid-seventies, the state of understanding started changing. Epigenetics has now morphed from a phenomenon to a branch of science whose molecular underpinnings are well understood. The current state of knowledge of epigenetics has evolved as our understanding of DNA methylation, chromatin modifications, and noncoding RNA, and their effects on gene expression increased. At this time in the annals of epigentics research, it is appropriate to revisit some of the important discoveries that have helped advance the field to its current state. This is a very brief review of some early discoveries, and by no means is a complete account of the history of epigenetics. In this review, the early history has also been emphasized in order to underscore the transformation of the science of epigenetics from a phenomenon to a modern field of intense research.
Databases and resources for human small non-coding RNAs.	Recent advances in high-throughput sequencing have facilitated the genome-wide studies of small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs). Numerous studies have highlighted the role of various classes of sRNAs at different levels of gene regulation and disease. The fast growth of sequence data and the diversity of sRNA species have prompted the need to organise them in annotation databases. There are currently several databases that collect sRNA data. Various tools are provided for access, with special emphasis on the well-characterised family of micro-RNAs. The striking heterogeneity of the new classes of sRNAs and the lack of sufficient functional annotation, however, make integration of these datasets a difficult task. This review describes the currently available databases for human sRNAs that are accessible via the internet, and some of the large datasets for human sRNAs from high-throughput sequencing experiments that are so far only available as supplementary data in publications. Some of the main issues related to the integration and annotation of sRNA datasets are also discussed.
Deep sequencing reveals predominant expression of miR-21 amongst the small non-coding RNAs in retinal microvascular endothelial cells.	The retinal vascular endothelium is essential for angiogenesis and is involved in maintaining barrier selectivity and vascular tone. The aim of this study was to identify and quantify microRNAs and other small regulatory non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) which may regulate these crucial functions. Primary bovine retinal microvascular endothelial cells (RMECs) provide a well-characterized in vitro system for studying angiogenesis. RNA extracted from RMECs was used to prepare a small RNA library for deep sequencing (Illumina Genome Analyzer). A total of 6.8 million reads were mapped to 250 known microRNAs in miRBase (release 16). In many cases, the most frequent isomiR differed from the sequence reported in miRBase. In addition, five novel microRNAs, 13 novel bovine orthologs of known human microRNAs and multiple new members of the miR-2284/2285 family were detected. Several ∼30 nucleotide sno-miRNAs were identified, with the most highly expressed being derived from snoRNA U78. Highly expressed microRNAs previously associated with endothelial cells included miR-126 and miR-378, but the most highly expressed was miR-21, comprising more than one-third of all mapped reads. Inhibition of miR-21 with an LNA inhibitor significantly reduced proliferation, migration, and tube-forming capacity of RMECs. The independence from prior sequence knowledge provided by deep sequencing facilitates analysis of novel microRNAs and other small RNAs. This approach also enables quantitative evaluation of microRNA expression, which has highlighted the predominance of a small number of microRNAs in RMECs. Knockdown of miR-21 suggests a role for this microRNA in regulation of angiogenesis in the retinal microvasculature.
sRNAbase: a Web resource for small RNAs in Enterobacteriaceae.	Bacterial small RNAs (sRNAs) have gained considerable attention due to their multivalent roles in the survival and pathogenesis of bacteria and mostly identified through bio-computational methods. A manually curated web-resource, sRNAbase has been constructed to give comprehensive and exhaustive information on non-coding small RNAs excluding tRNAs and rRNAs in Enterobacteriaceae family. The sRNA entries curated in sRNAbase contain experimentally verified small RNAs available in the literature and their partial/non-homologs reported within the related genomes from our earlier studies. The sRNAbase aims to facilitate the scientific community by providing information on the physical genomic location of the non-coding small RNAs, its alias names, sequences, strand orientation, gene identification numbers of the conserved genes that sandwiches the particular sRNA with possible functional role and a link to the PubMed literatures. Currently, sRNAbase holding information on 1986 entries belongs to 80 sRNA families spread over 45 Enterobacteriaceae genomes. The sRNAbase is accessible on the web at http://bicmku.in:8081/srnabase/.
Deep sequencing of small RNAs in tomato for virus and viroid identification and strain differentiation.	Small RNAs (sRNA), including microRNAs (miRNA) and small interfering RNAs (siRNA), are produced abundantly in plants and animals and function in regulating gene expression or in defense against virus or viroid infection. Analysis of siRNA profiles upon virus infection in plant may allow for virus identification, strain differentiation, and de novo assembly of virus genomes. In the present study, four suspected virus-infected tomato samples collected in the U.S. and Mexico were used for sRNA library construction and deep sequencing. Each library generated between 5-7 million sRNA reads, of which more than 90% were from the tomato genome. Upon in-silico subtraction of the tomato sRNAs, the remaining highly enriched, virus-like siRNA pools were assembled with or without reference virus or viroid genomes. A complete genome was assembled for Potato spindle tuber viroid (PSTVd) using siRNA alone. In addition, a near complete virus genome (98%) also was assembled for Pepino mosaic virus (PepMV). A common mixed infection of two strains of PepMV (EU and US1), which shared 82% of genome nucleotide sequence identity, also could be differentially assembled into their respective genomes. Using de novo assembly, a novel potyvirus with less than 60% overall genome nucleotide sequence identity to other known viruses was discovered and its full genome sequence obtained. Taken together, these data suggest that the sRNA deep sequencing technology will likely become an efficient and powerful generic tool for virus identification in plants and animals.
Computational identification of sRNA targets.	Many small noncoding RNAs (sRNAs) in bacteria act as posttranscriptional regulators by base pairing to their message targets. TargetRNA is a program that predicts the targets of a sRNA by identifying messages with significant potential to base pair with the sRNA. Since base pairing potential alone is insufficient to accurately identify sRNA targets, TargetRNA integrates several additional features of RNA interactions when predicting regulatory targets of a sRNA. In this chapter, we provide a detailed guide on how to use TargetRNA to identify targets of sRNA regulation.
Activity of small RNAs on the stability of targeted mRNAs in vivo.	Northern blots are extremely useful to monitor the steady state level of small regulatory RNAs (sRNAs) as well as their target mRNAs. In combination with the drug rifampicin, which blocks cellular transcription, Northern blots can be used to determine the stability of sRNAs and mRNAs. Here we describe a protocol to assess the activity of the sRNA RyhB on the stability of targeted mRNAs sodB, fumA, and iscRSUA. We also describe how to identify a sRNA-induced initial cleavage site on a target mRNA. This protocol can be used for any sRNAs and their target mRNAs.
Towards decoding the conifer giga-genome.	Several new initiatives have been launched recently to sequence conifer genomes including pines, spruces and Douglas-fir. Owing to the very large genome sizes ranging from 18 to 35 gigabases, sequencing even a single conifer genome had been considered unattainable until the recent throughput increases and cost reductions afforded by next generation sequencers. The purpose of this review is to describe the context for these new initiatives. A knowledge foundation has been acquired in several conifers of commercial and ecological interest through large-scale cDNA analyses, construction of genetic maps and gene mapping studies aiming to link phenotype and genotype. Exploratory sequencing in pines and spruces have pointed out some of the unique properties of these giga-genomes and suggested strategies that may be needed to extract value from their sequencing. The hope is that recent and pending developments in sequencing technology will contribute to rapidly filling the knowledge vacuum surrounding their structure, contents and evolution. Researchers are also making plans to use comparative analyses that will help to turn the data into a valuable resource for enhancing and protecting the world's conifer forests.
Identified small RNAs of Mycobacterium avium]	Posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression by small RNAs was shown for multiple pathogenic microorganisms and plays an important role in virulence. 4 putative sRNA genes located in intergenic loci were identified: MAV_0380-0381 (4.5S RNA), MAV_1034-1035 (trans-encoded sRNA), MAV_1415-1416 (antisense or trans-encoded sRNA) and MAV_1531-1532 (processed 5' UTR of 16S rRNA gene). The revealed sRNAs represent the first small noncoding RNAs identified in M. avium.
A user-friendly chromatographic method to purify small regulatory RNAs.	The discovery of the small regulatory RNAs has changed our vision of cellular regulations. Indeed, when loaded on Argonaute proteins they form ribonucleoprotein complexes (RNPs) that target complementary sequences to achieve widespread silencing mechanisms conserved in most eukaryotes. The recent development of deep sequencing approaches highly contributed to their detection. Small RNA isolation from cells and/or tissues remains a crucial stage to generate robust and relevant sequencing data. In 2006, a novel strategy based on anion-exchange chromatography has been proposed as an alternative to the standard size-isolation purification procedure. Using bioinformatic comparative analysis, we here demonstrate that anion-exchange chromatographic RNP purification prior to small RNA extraction unbiasedly enriches datasets in bona fide reads (small regulatory RNA sequences) and depletes endogenous contaminants (ribosomal RNAs and degradation RNA products). The resulting increase in sequencing depth provides a major benefit to study rare populations. We then developed a fast and basic manual procedure to purify such small non-coding RNAs using anion-exchange chromatography at the bench. We validated the efficiency of this new method and used this strategy to purify small RNAs from various tissues and organisms. We moreover determined that our manual purification increases the output of the previously described anion-exchange chromatography procedure. 
Inactivation of tumor suppressor gene HIC1 in gastric cancer is reversed via small activating RNAs.	HIC1 is a tumor suppressor gene that is down-expressed in different malignancies, in part, because of promoter hypermethylation. However, the biological function of HIC1 in gastric cancer remains unclear. It is known that small double-stranded RNAs can induce gene expression by targeting promoter sequences. In the present study, we examined the expression levels of HIC1 in gastric cancer tissue. Several pieces of small double-stranded RNAs were used for the activation of HIC1. Tissue microarray analysis of gastric cancer indicated that down-regulation of HIC1 in gastric cancer tissue was dramatic compared with the adjacent gastric mucosa. Gastric cancer cell lines also showed down-regulated HIC1 expression compared with a human immortalized gastric mucosa cell line. One out of four dsRNAs produced activation of HIC1 as assessed by real-time PCR and Western blotting. Use of a cell counting kit 8 and clonogenicity assays indicated that dsRNA-mediated re-expression of HIC1 inhibited cell proliferation and clonogenicity in gastric cancer. Reactivation of HIC1 suppressed cell migration and induced cell cycle arrest in the G0/G1 phase, as well as induced apoptosis. These results suggest that HIC1 is a potential target of gene therapy against gastric cancer, and that dsRNAs could function as a therapeutic option for up-regulating tumor suppressor genes in gastric cancer and other malignancies. 
Control of RNA stability by NrrF, an iron-regulated small RNA in Neisseria gonorrhoeae.	Regulation of gene expression by small noncoding RNAs (sRNAs) plays a critical role in bacterial response to physiological stresses. NrrF, a trans-acting sRNA in Neisseria meningitidis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae, has been shown in the meningococcus to control indirectly, in response to iron (Fe) availability, the transcription of genes encoding subunits of succinate dehydrogenase, a Fe-requiring enzyme. Given that in other organisms, sRNAs target multiple mRNAs to control gene expression, we used a global approach to examine the role of NrrF in controlling gonococcal transcription. Three strains, including N. gonorrhoeae FA1090, an nrrF deletion mutant, and a complemented derivative, were examined using a custom CombiMatrix microarray to assess the role of this sRNA in controlling gene expression in response to Fe availability. In the absence of NrrF, the mRNA half-lives for 12 genes under Fe-depleted growth conditions were longer than those in FA1090. The 12 genes controlled by NrrF encoded proteins with biological functions including energy metabolism, oxidative stress, antibiotic resistance, and amino acid synthesis, as well as hypothetical proteins and a regulatory protein whose functions are not fully understood. 
Small RNAs in the Vibrionaceae: an ocean still to be explored.	In bacteria, the discovery of noncoding small RNAs (sRNAs) as modulators of gene expression in response to environmental signals has brought new insights into bacterial gene regulation, including control of pathogenicity. The Vibrionaceae constitute a family of marine bacteria of which many are responsible for infections affecting not only humans, such as Vibrio cholerae but also fish and marine invertebrates, representing the major cause of mortality in farmed marine species. They are able to colonize many habitats, existing as planktonic forms, in biofilms or associated with various hosts. This high adaptability is linked to their capacity to generate genetic diversity, in part through lateral gene transfer, but also by varying gene expression control. In the recent years, several major studies have illustrated the importance of small regulatory sRNAs in the Vibrionaceae for the control of pathogenicity and adaptation to environment and nutrient sources such as chitin, especially in V. cholerae and Vibrio harveyi. The existence of a complex regulatory network controlled by quorum sensing has been demonstrated in which sRNAs play central roles. This review covers major advances made in the discovery and elucidation of functions of Vibrionaceae sRNAs within the last 10 years.
SearchSmallRNA: a graphical interface tool for the assemblage of viral genomes using small RNA libraries data.	Next-generation parallel sequencing (NGS) allows the identification of viral pathogens by sequencing the small RNAs of infected hosts. Thus, viral genomes may be assembled from host immune response products without prior virus enrichment, amplification or purification. However, mapping of the vast information obtained presents a bioinformatics challenge.
