Direct quantification of gene expression using capillary electrophoresis with laser-induced fluorescence.	Quantification of gene expression provides valuable information regarding the response of cells or tissue to stimuli and often is accomplished by monitoring the level of messenger RNA (mRNA) being transcribed for a particular protein. Although numerous methods are commonly used to monitor gene expression, including Northern blotting, real-time polymerase chain reaction, and RNase protection assay, each method has its own drawbacks and limitations. Capillary electrophoresis with laser-induced fluorescence (CE-LIF) can reduce protocol time, eliminate the need for radioactivity, and provide superior sensitivity and dynamic range for quantification of RNA. In addition, CE-LIF can be used to directly determine the amount of an RNA species present, something that is difficult and not normally accomplished using current methods. Gene expression is detected using a fluorescently labeled riboprobe specific for a given RNA species. This direct approach was validated by analyzing levels of 28S RNA and also used to determine the amount of discoidin domain receptor 2 mRNA in cardiac tissue.
Fungal endophthalmitis complicating subconjunctival injection of triamcinolone acetonide in anterior scleritis.	Fungal endophthalmitis following subconjunctival triamcinolone acetonide in anterior scleritis is a rare complication. Two patients with anterior scleritis, who received subconjunctival injection of triamcinolone developed fungal endophthalmitis. Both patients were positive by smear and polymerase chain reaction for 28S ribosomal RNA gene for fungus. Colletotrichum dematium was identified in one patient. Both patients responded well to pars plana vitrectomy and antifungal therapy.
A study on postmortem stability of vasopressin messenger RNA in rat brain compared with those in total RNA and ribosomal RNA.	Postmortem stability of arginine-vasopressin (AVP) messenger RNA (mRNA) in the rat brain was studied comparing changes with those in the recovered amounts of total RNA and ribosomal RNA (rRNA). The amount of AVP mRNA and rRNA showed a decrease with increasing time interval after death (postmortem time), whereas the amount of total RNA did not alter with postmortem time. The half-life of AVP mRNA in the rat postmortem seemed to be approximately 16 hrs. The analysis of the ratio of AVP mRNA to 18S-rRNA suggested that AVP mRNA was degraded postmortem more rapidly than rRNA. These results suggest that autopsied human brains should be used for AVP mRNA study within a short postmortem time.
An efficient polymerase chain reaction approach for the quantitation of multiple RNAs in human tissue samples.	We describe a PCR quantitation approach that we have set up to study gene expression in human skeletal muscle biopsies. It is characterized by the independent standardization of the individual steps and ignores attempts to control for the efficiency of the PCR. Different RNA extraction/reverse transcription efficiencies are normalized by the addition of an unrelated cRNA. Quantitation is achieved by parallel amplifications of reference samples containing known amounts of PCR products. Precision was achieved by multiple measurements of several samples. Our approach allows for the detection of less than twofold differences (27-88%, depending on the RNA species studied) among samples. A comparison of biopsies from highly trained endurance runners with biopsies from untrained subjects showed that the increased mitochondrial density in the runners' samples is accompanied by a proportional increase in the concentration of the mRNA of cytochrome c oxidase subunit IV.
