Structural compensation in an archaeal selenocysteine transfer RNA.	A new type of structural compensation between the lengths of two perpendicularly oriented RNA double helices was found in the archaeal selenocysteine tRNA from Methanococcus jannascii. This tRNA contains only four base-pairs in the T-stem, one base-pair less than in all other cytosolic tRNAs. Our analysis shows that such a T-stem in an otherwise normal tRNA cannot guarantee the formation of the normal interactions between the D and T-loops. The absence of these interactions would affect the juxtaposition of the two tRNA helical domains, potentially damaging the tRNA function. In addition to the short T-stem, this tRNA possesses another unprecedented feature, a very long D-stem consisting of seven base-pairs. Taken as such, a seven base-pair D-stem will also disrupt the normal interaction between the D and T-loops. On the other hand, the presence of the universal nucleotides in both the D and T-loops suggests that these loops probably interact with each other in the same way as in other tRNAs. Here, we demonstrate that the short T-stem and the long D-stem can naturally compensate each other, thus providing the normal D/T interactions. Molecular modeling has helped suggest a detailed scheme of mutual compensation between these two unique structural aspects of the archaeal selenocysteine tRNA. In the light of this analysis, other structural and functional characteristics of the selenocysteine tRNAs are discussed.
RNase P RNAs from some Archaea are catalytically active.	The RNA subunits of RNase Ps of Archaea and eukaryotes have been thought to depend fundamentally on protein for activity, unlike those of Bacteria that are capable of efficient catalysis in the absence of protein. Although the eukaryotic RNase P RNAs are quite different than those of Bacteria in both sequence and structure, the archaeal RNAs generally contain the sequences and structures of the bacterial, phylogenetically conserved catalytic core. A spectrum of archaeal RNase P RNAs were therefore tested for activity in a wide range of conditions. Many remain inactive in ionically extreme conditions, but catalytic activity could be detected from those of the methanobacteria, thermococci, and halobacteria. Chimeric holoenzymes, reconstituted from the Methanobacterium RNase P RNA and the Bacillus subtilis RNase P protein subunits, were functional at low ionic strength. The properties of the archaeal RNase P RNAs (high ionic-strength requirement, low affinity for substrate, and catalytic reconstitution by bacterial RNase P protein) are similar to synthetic RNase P RNAs that contain all of the catalytic core of the bacterial RNA but lack phylogenetically variable, stabilizing elements.
Isolation, crystallization, and investigation of ribosomal protein S8 complexed with specific fragments of rRNA of bacterial or archaeal origin.	The core ribosomal protein S8 binds to the central domain of 16S rRNA independently of other ribosomal proteins and is required for assembling the 30S subunit. It has been shown with E. coli ribosomes that a short rRNA fragment restricted by nucleotides 588-602 and 636-651 is sufficient for strong and specific protein S8 binding. In this work, we studied the complexes formed by ribosomal protein S8 from Thermus thermophilus and Methanococcus jannaschii with short rRNA fragments isolated from the same organisms. The dissociation constants of the complexes of protein S8 with rRNA fragments were determined. Based on the results of binding experiments, rRNA fragments of different length were designed and synthesized in preparative amounts in vitro using T7 RNA-polymerase. Stable S8-RNA complexes were crystallized. Crystals were obtained both for homologous bacterial and archaeal complexes and for hybrid complexes of archaeal protein with bacterial rRNA. Crystals of the complex of protein S8 from M. jannaschii with the 37-nucleotide rRNA fragment from the same organism suitable for X-ray analysis were obtained.
Box C/D RNA guides for the ribose methylation of archaeal tRNAs. The tRNATrp intron guides the formation of two ribose-methylated nucleosides in the mature tRNATrp.	Following a search of the Pyrococcus genomes for homologs of eukaryotic methylation guide small nucleolar RNAs, we have experimentally identified in Pyrococcus abyssi four novel box C/D small RNAs predicted to direct 2'-O-ribose methylations onto the first position of the anticodon in tRNALeu(CAA), tRNALeu(UAA), elongator tRNAMet and tRNATrp, respectively. Remarkably, one of them corresponds to the intron of its presumptive target, pre-tRNATrp. This intron is predicted to direct in cis two distinct ribose methylations within the unspliced tRNA precursor, not only onto the first position of the anticodon in the 5' exon but also onto position 39 (universal tRNA numbering) in the 3' exon. The two intramolecular RNA duplexes expected to direct methylation, which both span an exon-intron junction in pre-tRNATrp, are phylogenetically conserved in euryarchaeotes. We have experimentally confirmed the predicted guide function of the box C/D intron in halophile Haloferax volcanii by mutagenesis analysis, using an in vitro splicing/RNA modification assay in which the two cognate ribose methylations of pre-tRNATrp are faithfully reproduced. Euryarchaeal pre-tRNATrp should provide a unique system to further investigate the molecular mechanisms of RNA-guided ribose methylation and gain new insights into the origin and evolution of the complex family of archaeal and eukaryotic box C/D small RNAs.
Reconstitution of archaeal ribonuclease P from RNA and four protein components.	Ribonuclease P (RNase P) is an endonuclease responsible for generating the 5(') end of matured tRNA molecules. A homology search of the hyperthermophilic archaeon Pyrococcus horikoshii OT3 genome database revealed that the four genes, PH1481, PH1601, PH1771, and PH1877, have a significant homology to those encoding RNase P protein subunits, hpop5, Rpp21, Rpp29, and Rpp30, of human, respectively. These genes were expressed in Escherichia coli cells, and the resulting proteins Ph1481p, Ph1601p, Ph1771p, and Ph1877p were purified to apparent homogeneity in a set of column chromatographies. The four proteins were characterized in terms of their capability to bind the cognate RNase P RNA from P. horikoshii. All four proteins exhibited the binding activity to the RNase P RNA. In vitro reconstitution of four putative RNase P proteins with the in vitro transcripted P. horikoshii RNase P RNA revealed that three proteins Ph1481p, Ph1601p, and Ph1771p, and RNase P RNA are minimal components for the RNase P activity. However, addition of the fourth protein Ph1877p strongly stimulated enzymatic activity, indicating that all four proteins and RNase P RNA are essential for optimal RNase P activity. The present data will pave the way for the elucidation of the reaction mechanism for archaeal as well as eukaryotic RNase P.
A pre-tRNA carrying intron features typical of Archaea is spliced in yeast.	Archaeal pre-tRNAs are characterized by the presence of the bulge-helix-bulge (BHB) structure in the intron stem-and-loop region. A chimeric pre-tRNA was constructed bearing an intron of the archaeal type and the mature domain of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae suppressor SUP4 tRNA(Tyr). This pre-tRNA(ArchEuka) is correctly cleaved in several cell-free extracts and by purified splicing endonucleases. It is also cleaved and ligated in S. cerevisiae cells, providing efficient suppression of nonsense mutations in various genes.
A nomenclature for all signal recognition particle RNAs.	The signal recognition particle (SRP) is a cytosolic ribonucleoprotein complex that guides secretory proteins to biological membranes in all organisms. The SRP RNA is at the center of the structure and function of the SRP. The comparison of the growing number of SRP RNA sequences provides a rich source for gaining valuable insight into the composition, assembly, and phylogeny of the SRP. In order to assist in the continuation of these studies, we propose an SRP RNA nomenclature applicable to the three divisions of life.
Number, position, and significance of the pseudouridines in the large subunit ribosomal RNA of Haloarcula marismortui and Deinococcus radiodurans.	The number and position of the pseudouridines of Haloarcula marismortui and Deinococcus radiodurans large subunit RNA have been determined by a combination of total nucleoside analysis by HPLC-mass spectrometry and pseudouridine sequencing by the reverse transcriptase method and by LC/MS/MS. Three pseudouridines were found in H. marismortui, located at positions 1956, 1958, and 2621 corresponding to Escherichia coli positions 1915, 1917, and 2586, respectively. The three pseudouridines are all in locations found in other organisms. Previous reports of a larger number of pseudouridines in this organism were incorrect. Three pseudouridines and one 3-methyl pseudouridine (m3Psi) were found in D. radiodurans 23S RNA at positions 1894, 1898 (m3Psi), 1900, and 2584, the m3Psi site being determined by a novel application of mass spectrometry. These positions correspond to E. coli positions 1911, 1915, 1917, and 2605, which are also pseudouridines in E. coli (1915 is m3Psi). The pseudouridines in the helix 69 loop, residues 1911, 1915, and 1917, are in positions highly conserved among all phyla. Pseudouridine 2584 in D. radiodurans is conserved in eubacteria and a chloroplast but is not found in archaea or eukaryotes, whereas pseudouridine 2621 in H. marismortui is more conserved in eukaryotes and is not found in eubacteria. All the pseudoridines are near, but not exactly at, nucleotides directly involved in various aspects of ribosome function. In addition, two D. radiodurans Psi synthases responsible for the four Psi were identified.
Ribosomal protein L1 recognizes the same specific structural motif in its target sites on the autoregulatory mRNA and 23S rRNA.	The RNA-binding ability of ribosomal protein L1 is of profound interest since the protein has a dual function as a ribosomal protein binding rRNA and as a translational repressor binding its mRNA. Here, we report the crystal structure of ribosomal protein L1 in complex with a specific fragment of its mRNA and compare it with the structure of L1 in complex with a specific fragment of 23S rRNA determined earlier. In both complexes, a strongly conserved RNA structural motif is involved in L1 binding through a conserved network of RNA-protein H-bonds inaccessible to the solvent. These interactions should be responsible for specific recognition between the protein and RNA. A large number of additional non-conserved RNA-protein H-bonds stabilizes both complexes. The added contribution of these non-conserved H-bonds makes the ribosomal complex much more stable than the regulatory one.
The complete set of tRNA species in Nanoarchaeum equitans.	The archaeal parasite Nanoarchaeum equitans was found to generate five tRNA species via a unique process requiring the assembly of seperate 5' and 3' tRNA halves [Randau, L., Munch, R., Hohn, M.J., Jahn, D. and Soll, D. (2005) Nanoarchaeum equitans creates functional tRNAs from separate genes for their 5'- and 3'-halves. Nature 433, 537-541]. Biochemical evidence was missing for one of the computationally-predicted, joined tRNAs designated as tRNA(Trp). Our RT-PCR and sequencing results identify this tRNA as tRNA(Lys) (CUU) joined at the alternative position between bases 30 and 31. We show that the intron-containing tRNA(Trp) was misidentified in the initial Nanoarchaeum equitans genome annotation [E. Waters et al. (2003) The genome of Nanoarchaeum equitans: insights into early archaeal evolution and derived parasitism. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 100, 12984-12988]. Along with a previously unidentified joined tRNA(Gln) (UUG), Nanoarchaeum equitans exhibits 44 tRNAs and is enabled to read all 61 sense codons. Features unique to this set of tRNA molecules are discussed.
N6-Acetyladenosine: a new modified nucleoside from Methanopyrus kandleri tRNA.	Post-transcriptionally modified nucleosides are constituents of transfer RNA (tRNA) that are known to influence tertiary structure, stability and coding properties. Modifications in unfractionated tRNA from the phylogenetically unique archaeal methanogen Methanopyrus kandleri (optimal growth temperature 98 degrees C) were studied using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to establish the extent to which they might differ from those of other methanogens. The exceptionally diverse population of nucleosides included four new nucleosides of unknown structure, and one that was characterized as N(6)-acetyladenosine, a new RNA constituent. The nucleoside modification pattern in M. kandleri tRNA is notably different from that of other archaeal methanogens, and is closer to that of the thermophilic crenarchaeota.
Reconstitution of archaeal H/ACA small ribonucleoprotein complexes active in pseudouridylation.	Pseudouridine (Psi) are frequently modified residues in RNA. In Eukarya, their formation is catalyzed by enzymes or by ribonucleoprotein complexes (RNPs) containing H/ACA snoRNAs. H/ACA sRNA and putative ORFs for H/ACA sRNP proteins (L7Ae, aCBF5, aNOP10 and aGAR1) were found in Archaea. Here, by using Pyrococcus abyssi recombinant proteins and an in vitro transcribed P.abyssi H/ACA sRNA, we obtained the first complete in vitro reconstitution of an active H/ACA RNP. Both L7Ae and the aCBF5 RNA:Psi synthase bind directly the sRNA; aCBF5 also interacts directly and independently with aNOP10 and aGAR1. Presence of aCBF5, aNOP10 and a U residue at the pseudouridylation site in the target RNA are required for RNA target recruitment. In agreement, we found that the aCBF5-aNOP10 pair is the minimal set of proteins needed for the formation of a particle active for pseudouridylation. However, particles more efficient in targeted pseudouridylation can be formed with the addition of proteins L7Ae and/or aGAR1. Although necessary for optimal activity, the conserved ACA motif in the sRNA was found to be not essential.
Molecular mechanism of target RNA transcript recognition by Argonaute-guide complexes.	Argonaute proteins participate in conferring all known functions of RNA-mediated gene silencing phenomena. However, prior to structural investigations of this evolutionarily conserved family of proteins, there was little information concerning their mechanisms of action. Here, we describe our crystallographic analysis of the PIWI domain of an archaeal Argonaute homolog, AfPiwi. Our structural analysis revealed that the Argonaute PIWI fold incorporates both an RNase-H-like catalytic domain and an anchor site for the obligatory 5' phosphate of the RNA guide strand. RNA-AfPiwi binding assays combined with crystallographic studies demonstrated that AfPiwi interacts with RNA via a conserved region centered on the carboxyl terminus of the protein, utilizing a novel metal-binding site. A model of the PIWI domain of Argonaute in complex with a small interfering RNA (siRNA)-like duplex is consistent with much of the existing biochemical and genetic data, explaining the specificity of the RNA-directed RNA endonuclease reaction and the importance of the 5' region of microRNAs (miRNAs) (the "seed") to nucleate target RNA recognition and provide high-affinity guide-target interactions.
Deciphering RNA structural diversity and systematic phylogeny from microbial metagenomes.	Metagenomics has been employed to systematically sequence, classify, analyze and manipulate the entire genetic material isolated from environmental samples. Finding genes within metagenomic sequences remains a formidable challenge, and noncoding RNA genes other than those encoding rRNA and tRNA are not well annotated in metagenomic projects. In this work, we identify, validate and analyze the genes coding for RNase P RNA (P RNA) from all published metagenomic projects. P RNA is the RNA subunit of a ubiquitous endoribonuclease RNase P that consists of one RNA subunit and one or more protein subunits. The bacterial P RNAs are classified into two types, Type A and Type B, based on the constituents of the structure involved in precursor tRNA binding. Archaeal P RNAs are classified into Type A and Type M, whereas the Type A is ancestral and close to Type A bacterial P RNA. Bacterial and some archaeal P RNAs are catalytically active without protein subunits, capable of cleaving precursor tRNA transcripts to produce their mature 5'-termini. We have found 328 distinctive P RNAs (320 bacterial and 8 archaeal) from all published metagenomics sequences, which led us to expand by 60% the total number of this catalytic RNA from prokaryotes. Surprisingly, all newly identified P RNAs from metagenomics sequences are Type A, i.e. neither Type B bacterial nor Type M archaeal P RNAs are found. We experimentally validate the authenticity of an archaeal P RNA from Sargasso Sea. One of the distinctive features of some new P RNAs is that the P2 stem has kinked nucleotides in its 5' strand. We find that the single nucleotide J2/3 joint region linking the P2 and P3 stem that was used to distinguish a bacterial P RNA from an archaeal one is no longer applicable, i.e. some archaeal P RNAs have only one nucleotide in the J2/3 joint. We also discuss the phylogenetic analysis based on covariance model of P RNA that offers a few advantages over the one based on 16S rRNA.
Box C/D RNA-guided 2'-O methylations and the intron of tRNATrp are not essential for the viability of Haloferax volcanii.	Deleting the box C/D RNA-containing intron in the Haloferax volcanii tRNATrp gene abolishes RNA-guided 2'-O methylations of C34 and U39 residues of tRNATrp. However, this deletion does not affect growth under standard conditions.
Compositional properties and thermal adaptation of SRP-RNA in bacteria and archaea.	Previous studies have reported a positive correlation between the GC content of the double-stranded regions of structural RNAs and the optimal growth temperature (OGT) in prokaryotes. These observations led to the hypothesis that natural selection favors an increase in GC content to ensure the correct folding and the structural stability of the molecule at high temperature. To date these studies have focused mainly on ribosomal and transfer RNAs. Therefore, we addressed the question of the relationship between GC content and OGT in a different and universally conserved structural RNA, the RNA component of the signal recognition particle (SRP). To this end we generated the secondary structures of SRP-RNAs for mesophilic, thermophilic, and hyperthermophilic bacterial and archaeal species. The analysis of the GC content in the stems and loops of the SRP-RNA of these organisms failed to detect a relationship between the GC contents in the stems of this structural RNA and the growth temperature of bacteria. By contrast, we found that in archaea the GC content in the stem regions of SRP-RNA is highest in hyperthermophiles, intermediate in thermophiles, and lower in mesophiles. In these organisms, we demonstrated a clear positive correlation between the GC content of the stem regions of their SRP-RNAs and their OGT. This correlation was confirmed by a phylogenetic nonindependence analysis. Thus we conclude that in archaea the increase in GC content in the stem regions of SRP-RNA is an adaptation response to environmental temperature.
Structural basis for site-specific ribose methylation by box C/D RNA protein complexes.	Box C/D RNA protein complexes (RNPs) direct site-specific 2'-O-methylation of RNA and ribosome assembly. The guide RNA in C/D RNP forms base pairs with complementary substrates and selects the modification site using a molecular ruler. Despite many studies of C/D RNP structure, the fundamental questions of how C/D RNAs assemble into RNPs and how they guide modification remain unresolved. Here we report the crystal structure of an entire catalytically active archaeal C/D RNP consisting of a bipartite C/D RNA associated with two substrates and two copies each of Nop5, L7Ae and fibrillarin at 3.15-Å resolution. The substrate pairs with the second through the eleventh nucleotide of the 12-nucleotide guide, and the resultant duplex is bracketed in a channel with flexible ends. The methyltransferase fibrillarin binds to an undistorted A-form structure of the guide-substrate duplex and specifically loads the target ribose into the active site. Because interaction with the RNA duplex alone does not determine the site specificity, fibrillarin is further positioned by non-specific and specific protein interactions. Compared with the structure of the inactive C/D RNP, extensive domain movements are induced by substrate loading. Our results reveal the organization of a monomeric C/D RNP and the mechanism underlying its site-specific methylation activity.
Fidelity of tRNA 5'-maturation: a possible basis for the functional dependence of archaeal and eukaryal RNase P on multiple protein cofactors.	RNase P, which catalyzes tRNA 5'-maturation, typically comprises a catalytic RNase P RNA (RPR) and a varying number of RNase P proteins (RPPs): 1 in bacteria, at least 4 in archaea and 9 in eukarya. The four archaeal RPPs have eukaryotic homologs and function as heterodimers (POP5•RPP30 and RPP21•RPP29). By studying the archaeal Methanocaldococcus jannaschii RPR's cis cleavage of precursor tRNA(Gln) (pre-tRNA(Gln)), which lacks certain consensus structures/sequences needed for substrate recognition, we demonstrate that RPP21•RPP29 and POP5•RPP30 can rescue the RPR's mis-cleavage tendency independently by 4-fold and together by 25-fold, suggesting that they operate by distinct mechanisms. This synergistic and preferential shift toward correct cleavage results from the ability of archaeal RPPs to selectively increase the RPR's apparent rate of correct cleavage by 11,140-fold, compared to only 480-fold for mis-cleavage. Moreover, POP5•RPP30, like the bacterial RPP, helps normalize the RPR's rates of cleavage of non-consensus and consensus pre-tRNAs. We also show that archaeal and eukaryal RNase P, compared to their bacterial relatives, exhibit higher fidelity of 5'-maturation of pre-tRNA(Gln) and some of its mutant derivatives. Our results suggest that protein-rich RNase P variants might have evolved to support flexibility in substrate recognition while catalyzing efficient, high-fidelity 5'-processing.
An archaeal sRNA targeting cis- and trans-encoded mRNAs via two distinct domains.	We report on the characterization and target analysis of the small (s)RNA(162) in the methanoarchaeon Methanosarcina mazei. Using a combination of genetic approaches, transcriptome analysis and computational predictions, the bicistronic MM2441-MM2440 mRNA encoding the transcription factor MM2441 and a protein of unknown function was identified as a potential target of this sRNA, which due to processing accumulates as three stabile 5' fragments in late exponential growth. Mobility shift assays using various mutants verified that the non-structured single-stranded linker region of sRNA(162) (SLR) base-pairs with the MM2440-MM2441 mRNA internally, thereby masking the predicted ribosome binding site of MM2441. This most likely leads to translational repression of the second cistron resulting in dis-coordinated operon expression. Analysis of mutant RNAs in vivo confirmed that the SLR of sRNA(162) is crucial for target interactions. Furthermore, our results indicate that sRNA(162)-controlled MM2441 is involved in regulating the metabolic switch between the carbon sources methanol and methylamine. Moreover, biochemical studies demonstrated that the 5' end of sRNA(162) targets the 5'-untranslated region of the cis-encoded MM2442 mRNA. Overall, this first study of archaeal sRNA/mRNA-target interactions unraveled that sRNA(162) acts as an antisense (as)RNA on cis- and trans-encoded mRNAs via two distinct domains, indicating that cis-encoded asRNAs can have larger target regulons than previously anticipated.
Studies on crenarchaeal tyrosylation accuracy with mutational analyses of tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase and tyrosine tRNA from Aeropyrum pernix.	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases play a key role in the translation of genetic code into correct protein sequences. These enzymes recognize cognate amino acids and tRNAs from noncognate counterparts, and catalyze the formation of aminoacyl-tRNAs. While Although several tyrosyl-tRNA synthetases (TyrRSs) from various species have been structurally and functionally well characterized, the crenarchaeal TyrRS remains poorly understood. In this study, we performed mutational analyses on tyrosine tRNA (tRNA(Tyr)) and TyrRS from the crenarchaeon, Aeropyrum pernix, to investigate the molecular recognition mechanism. Kinetics for tyrosylation using in vitro transcript indicated that the discriminator base A73 and adjacent G72 in the acceptor stem are identity elements of tRNA(Tyr), whereas the C1 base and anticodon had modest roles as identity determinants. Intriguingly, in contrast to the identity element of eukaryotic/euryarchaeal TyrRSs, the first base-pair (C1-G72) of the acceptor stem was not essential in crenarchaeal TyrRS as a pair. Furthermore, A. pernix TyrRS mutants were constructed at positions Tyr39 and Asp172, which could form hydrogen bonds with the 4-hydroxyl group of l-tyrosine. The tyrosylation activities with the mutants resulted that Asp172 mutants completely abolished tyrosylation activity, whereas Tyr39 mutants had no effect on activity. Thus, crenarchaeal TyrRS appears to adopt different molecular recognition mechanism from other TyrRSs.
The structure of the box C/D enzyme reveals regulation of RNA methylation.	Post-transcriptional modifications are essential to the cell life cycle, as they affect both pre-ribosomal RNA processing and ribosome assembly. The box C/D ribonucleoprotein enzyme that methylates ribosomal RNA at the 2'-O-ribose uses a multitude of guide RNAs as templates for the recognition of rRNA target sites. Two methylation guide sequences are combined on each guide RNA, the significance of which has remained unclear. Here we use a powerful combination of NMR spectroscopy and small-angle neutron scattering to solve the structure of the 390 kDa archaeal RNP enzyme bound to substrate RNA. We show that the two methylation guide sequences are located in different environments in the complex and that the methylation of physiological substrates targeted by the same guide RNA occurs sequentially. This structure provides a means for differential control of methylation levels at the two sites and at the same time offers an unexpected regulatory mechanism for rRNA folding. 
