Trypanosoma cruzi: a gene family encoding chitin-binding-like proteins is posttranscriptionally regulated during metacyclogenesis.	The development of the representation of differential expression method has lead to the cloning of Trypanosoma cruzi stage-specific genes. We used this method to characterize a multicopy gene family differentially expressed during metacyclogenesis. The genomic and cDNA clones sequenced encoded three short cysteine-rich polypeptides, of two types, with predicted molecular masses of 7.1, 10.4, and 10.8 kDa. We searched GenBank for similar sequences and found that the sequences of these clones were similar to that encoding the wheat germ agglutinin protein. The region of similarity corresponds to the chitin-binding domain, with eight similarly positioned half-cysteines and conserved aromatic residues involved in chitin recognition. Multiple copies of the genes of this family are present on a high- molecular-mass chromosome. We studied the expression of genes of this family during metacyclogenesis by determining messenger RNA (mRNA) levels. The mRNAs for the members of this gene family were present in the total RNA fraction but were mobilized to the polysomal fraction of adhered (differentiating) epimastigotes during metacyclogenesis, with a peak of accumulation at 24 of differentiation. Polyclonal antisera were raised against a recombinant protein and a synthetic peptide. The specific sera obtained detected 7- and 11-kDa proteins in T. cruzi total protein extracts. The 11-kDa protein was present in similar amounts in the various cell populations, whereas the 7-kDa protein displayed differential synthesis during metacyclogenesis, with maximal levels in 24-h-adhered (differentiating) epimastigotes.
RBP38, a novel RNA-binding protein from trypanosomatid mitochondria, modulates RNA stability.	We describe here the isolation and characterization of a novel RNA-binding protein, RBP38, from Leishmania tarentolae mitochondria. This protein does not contain any known RNA-binding motifs and is highly conserved among the trypanosomatids, but no homologues were found in other organisms. Recombinant LtRBP38 binds single and double-stranded (ds) RNA substrates with dissociation constants in the 100 nM range, as determined by fluorescence polarization analysis. Downregulation of expression of the homologous gene, TbRBP38, in procyclic Trypanosoma brucei by using conditional dsRNA interference resulted in 80% reduction of steady-state levels of RNAs transcribed from both maxicircle and minicircle DNA. In organello pulse-chase labeling experiments were used to determine the stability of RNAs in mitochondria that were depleted of TbRBP38. The half-life of metabolically labeled RNA decreased from approximately 160 to approximately 60 min after depletion. In contrast, there was no change in transcriptional activity. These observations suggest a role of RBP38 in stabilizing mitochondrial RNA.
Low-grade parasitaemias and cold agglutinins in patients with hyper-reactive malarious splenomegaly and acute haemolysis.	A cluster of 16 cases of hyper-reactive malarious splenomegaly (HMS) with severe, acute haemolysis, from an isolated, Venezuelan, Yanomami population, was prospectively investigated. Nine (69%) of the 13 HMS sera investigated but only one (7%) of 14 control sera (P < 0.005) contained elevated titres (of at least 1:32) of complement-fixing IgM cold agglutinins (CA). The CA detected had specificity for both the I and i blood-group antigens (with a relative predominance of anti-I) and wide thermal stability. The mean reciprocal CA titre was much higher for the HMS sera than for the control samples (59.16 v. 2.28; P < 0.001). Indirect tests for antiglobulin were positive for two of the 13 HMS cases (but none of 14 controls) investigated; all of the direct tests for antiglobulin gave negative results. The seven HMS cases checked, using an assay based on a nested PCR which amplified species-specific ribosomal sequences from Plasmodium vivax or P. falciparum, each yielded the PCR product that indicated P. vivax infection. However, only six (25%) of the 24 control samples (collected, at the same time as the HMS samples, from asymptomatic adults from the same Yanomami population) were PCR-positive (P < 0.001). In some cases at least, the acute severe episodes of haemolysis occasionally seen in HMS appear to be associated with an auto-immune, cold-agglutinin-mediated response triggered by non-patent parasitaemias.
An immunomagnetic separation-reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (IMS-RT-PCR) test for sensitive and rapid detection of viable waterborne Cryptosporidium parvum.	The public health problem posed by the waterborne parasite Cryptosporidium parvum incited the water supply industry to develop very accurate analytical tools able to assess the presence of viable oocysts in drinking water. In this study, we report the development of a viability assay for C. parvum oocysts based on immunomagnetic separation and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (IMS-RT-PCR). The detection limit of the IMS-RT-PCR assay, which targets the hsp70 heat shock-induced mRNA, was in the range of ten viable oocysts per 100-l tap water samples. Purified Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts were exposed to heating, freezing and three chemical disinfection treatments namely, chlorination, chlorine dioxide treatment and ozonation under conventional doses used in water treatment plants, then detected by IMS-PCR and IMS-RT-PCR. The results obtained by IMS-PCR showed that none of the treatments had an effect on oocyst detection. The inactivation of oocysts by boiling resulted in no RT-PCR signal. Chlorine as well as chlorine dioxide did not influence oocyst viability as determined by IMS-RT-PCR. Ozone more effectively inactivated oocysts. The IMS-RT-PCR assay in conjunction with IMS-PCR marks the development of a combined detection and viability test which can be used for drinking water quality control as well as for reliable evaluation of treatment efficiency.
Heme-iron increases levels of AP65-mediated adherence by Trichomonas vaginalis.	Trichomonas vaginalis is a protozoan responsible for the number one, non-viral sexually transmitted disease. Surface proteins (AP65, AP51, AP33 and AP23) mediate adherence to vaginal epithelial cells (VECs). Iron increases growth of trichomonads and synthesis and surface placement of adhesins. We observed by immunofluorescence using monoclonal antibody (mAb) 12G4 the placement of AP65 on surfaces of trichomonads supplemented with hemoglobin or hemin as a source of iron. We, therefore, tested the hypothesis that heme-bound iron is an alternative source of iron important to trichomonal growth and regulation of expression of the adhesin genes. Here we show that the inhibition of parasite growth by the iron chelator 2,2-dipyridal is rescued by hemoglobin or hemin, but not protoporphyrin IX. Importantly, trichomonads grown in iron-limiting medium supplemented with free iron, hemoglobin and hemin had elevated levels of ap65 transcript that were 12.6-, 12.3- and 9.2-fold higher, respectively, than low-iron organisms, as determined by RT-PCR. Similarly, the amounts of AP65 were 8.9-, 11.2-, and 4.8-fold higher in parasites grown in free iron, hemoglobin and hemin, respectively, than organisms in low-iron medium. The heme-iron-regulated AP65 increased adherence of parasites to immortalized VECs. Not surprisingly, parasites pretreated with anti-AP65 serum IgG had decreased adherence compared to organisms incubated with prebleed serum IgG. These data illustrate that heme-bound iron is a source of iron similar to lactoferrin. This work extends our findings about the multiple sources of iron for regulating virulence genes of T. vaginalis.
Molecular characterization of peroxiredoxin from Entamoeba moshkovskii and a comparison with Entamoeba histolytica.	Peroxiredoxin of the pathogenic parasite, Entamoeba histolytica, is thought to be involved in protection from oxidative attack by host phagocytic cells and endogenously generated hydrogen peroxide. In this study, we cloned peroxiredoxin genes from the nonpathogenic ameba, Entamoeba moshkovskii, and characterized the peroxiredoxin protein. The open reading frame of three cloned cDNAs was demonstrated to encode a polypeptide of 218 or 217 amino acids. Identity of the amino acid sequence of peroxiredoxins between E. moshkovskii and E. histolytica was considerably high (77-81%), but the N-terminus portion of E. moshkovskii peroxiredoxin was shorter than that of E. histolytica. A recombinant peroxiredoxin of E. moshkovskii expressed in Escherichia coli exhibited hydrogen peroxidase activity. Its K(m) and V(max) values of 35 microM and 0.07 micromol/min/mg protein were approximately 1 and 1.5 times greater than E. histolytica peroxiredoxin, respectively. In addition, the protective effect of E. moshkovskii peroxiredoxin against oxidative-nicking of supercoiled plasmid DNA was shown to be greater than that of E. histolytica peroxiredoxin. Confocal laser scanning microscopy, using polyclonal antibody against the recombinant E. moshkovskii peroxiredoxin, demonstrated that this protein was localized in the nucleus and cytoplasm of trophozoites, supporting its function as a protectant against DNA damage. Southern blot and real-time reverse transcription PCR analyses of the E. moshkovskii peroxiredoxin gene demonstrated that it was a multi-copy gene and its expression was comparable to that of E. histolytica. These results suggest that the antioxidant peroxiredoxin is important for protection against endogenously generated hydrogen peroxide in the nonpathogenic ameba.
Histone acetyltransferases and deacetylase in Entamoeba histolytica.	In our efforts to understand how transcription may be regulated in Entamoeba histolytica, we have examined if this parasite has conserved enzymatic mechanisms for targeted acetylation and deacetylation of histones. Western blotting indicated that basic nuclear proteins in the size range of 16-23 kDa were acetylated in amebic trophozoites, suggesting histone acetylation. Single representatives of the GNAT and MYST family of histone acetyltransferases (HATs) were identified in the E. histolytica genome and their expression in amebic trophozoites was detected by reverse transcription of RNA followed by the polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Full-length recombinant EhMYST protein demonstrated HAT activity with calf thymus histones and showed a preference for histone H4, similar to the yeast MYST protein, Esa1. However, ehMYST did not complement a yeast esa1 mutation. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity was detected in nuclear extracts from E. histolytica, and characteristically, was inhibited by trichostatin A (TSA). Consistent with the observation of HDAC activity, RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that an amebic hdac1 homolog (ehHDAC) is expressed and appropriately spliced in E. histolytica trophozoites. Our results suggest that mechanisms for histone acetylation and deacetylation are operational in E. histolytica.
The beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase of Entamoeba histolytica is composed of two homologous chains and has been localized to cytoplasmic granules.	We have purified a beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase from trophozoites of Entamoeba histolytica to homogeneity. In SDS-PAGE, the enzyme yielded a single protein band at an apparent M(r) of 64,000. The elution behaviour of the native enzyme upon molecular sieve chromatography corresponded to a molecular mass of approximately 132,000 suggesting that the enzyme is a dimer. Upon sedimentation velocity centrifugation, hexosaminidase activity sedimented at 12S, implying aggregation to a higher molecular mass complex with an apparent M(r) of approximately 400,000. Based on the N-terminal sequence of the purified enzyme and on data extracted from the E. histolytica genomic data base, we amplified and cloned two genes (EhHEXA and EhHEXB) coding for two presumptive, highly similar hexosaminidase chains which we designated as Ehhexalpha and Ehhexbeta. Northern blot analysis indicated that the two genes were expressed to a similar level, and Western blotting with chain-specific antisera showed that the trophozoites synthesize both proteins. By cell fractionation, the hexosaminidase was found to be a major component of cytoplasmic granules; these contain tissue-destructive factors and are released after collagen-induced exocytosis to the cell surface. In agreement with this observation, immunocytochemistry with an antiserum cross-reacting with both hexosaminidase chains revealed strong fluorescence in surface patches, which we interpret as released granules, and in vesicles throughout the cell. Its localization in cytoplasmic granules strengthens the notion that the hexosaminidase complex may contribute to amoebic pathogenicity.
The human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum possesses two distinct dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenases.	The Plasmodium falciparum genome contains genes encoding three alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase multienzyme complexes (KADHs) that have central metabolic functions. The parasites possess two distinct genes encoding dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenases (LipDH), which are indispensable subunits of KADHs. This situation is reminiscent of that in plants, where two distinct LipDHs are found in mitochondria and chloroplasts, respectively, that are part of the organelle-specific KADHs. In this study, we show by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) that the genes encoding subunits of all three KADHs, including both LipDHs, are transcribed during the erythrocytic development of P. falciparum. Protein expression of mitochondrial LipDH and mitochondrial branched chain alpha-ketoacid dihydrolipoamide transacylase in these parasite stages was confirmed by Western blotting. The localization of the two LipDHs to the parasite's apicoplast and mitochondrion, respectively, was shown by expressing the LipDH N-terminal presequences fused to green fluorescent protein in erythrocytic stages of P. falciparum and by immunofluorescent colocalization with organelle-specific markers. Biochemical characterization of recombinantly expressed mitochondrial LipDH revealed that the protein has kinetic and physicochemical characteristics typical of these flavo disulphide oxidoreductases. We propose that the mitochondrial LipDH is part of the mitochondrial alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase and branched chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complexes and that the apicoplast LipDH is an integral part of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex which occurs only in the apicoplast in P. falciparum.
Increased precision of microbial RNA quantification using NASBA with an internal control.	Detection and quantification of low abundance target RNA has wide utility in the fields of clinical diagnostics, environmental monitoring, gene expression analysis, and biodefense. Nucleic acid based sequence amplification (NASBA) is an isothermal amplification method that provides the sensitivity needed for these applications. However, the requirement for three separate enzymes in NASBA often results in a greater variability between replicate samples than that seen in PCR-based assays. To overcome this problem, we have adapted the bioMérieux Nuclisens Basic Kit and Nuclisens EasyQ Analyzer along with the introduction of a synthetic internal control RNA (IC-RNA) for quantification of potentially any RNA sequence. Using the rbcL gene from the Florida red tide organism Karenia brevis as our target, we describe a simple method to accurately quantify the native target by computing the ratio of the time to positivity (TTP) values for both the wild-type and IC-RNA, and plotting this ratio against the starting number of target molecules or cells. By utilizing this simple method, we have significantly increased our accuracy and precision of prediction over the standard TTP calculations.
In vivo transcriptome of Plasmodium falciparum reveals overexpression of transcripts that encode surface proteins.	Infections with the human parasite Plasmodium falciparum continue to present a great challenge to global health. Fundamental questions regarding the molecular basis of virulence and immune evasion in P. falciparum have been only partially answered. Because of the parasite's intracellular location and complex life cycle, standard genetic approaches to the study of the pathogenesis of malaria have been limited. The present study presents a novel approach to the identification of the biological processes involved in host-pathogen interactions, one that is based on the analysis of in vivo P. falciparum transcripts. We demonstrate that a sufficient quantity of P. falciparum RNA transcripts can be derived from a small blood sample from infected patients for whole-genome microarray analysis. Overall, excellent correlation was observed between the transcriptomes derived from in vivo samples and in vitro samples with ring-stage P. falciparum 3D7 reference strain. However, gene families that encode surface proteins are overexpressed in vivo. Moreover, this analysis has identified a new family of hypothetical genes that may encode surface variant antigens. Comparative studies of the transcriptomes derived from in vivo samples and in vitro 3D7 samples may identify important strategies used by the pathogen for survival in the human host and highlight, for vaccine development, new candidate antigens that were not previously identified through the use of in vitro cultures.
Comparison of in vitro translation products of Sarcocystis gigantea and Sarcocystis tenella.	Poly(A)+ RNA was purified from cystozoites of Sarcocystis gigantea and Sarcocystis tenella and used to in vitro translate polypeptides in a wheat germ and a rabbit reticulocyte translation system. The in vitro translated polypeptides were compared by sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The S. tenella mRNA translated at least two polypeptides (mol. wt about 80,000 and 21,500) in both translation systems that were not translated by the S. gigantea mRNA. To study co-translational and initial post-translational processing in Sarcocystis, the poly(A)+ RNA preparations were in vitro translated in the rabbit reticulocyte translation system in the presence or absence of canine microsomal membranes. Based on electrophoresis, there appeared to be modification of at least some Sarcocystis polypeptides in the mol. wt range 17,000-30,000. In addition, the translation products were immunoprecipitated with a homologous and a heterologous antiserum. The immunoprecipitated polypeptides were compared by electrophoresis and the S. tenella translation products contained at least one unique antigenic polypeptide with a mol. wt of about 34,700 that was not processed by the microsomal membranes. These results suggest that there is at least one polypeptide that is a candidate for use as an antigen for the differentiation of S. gigantea and S. tenella infections in sheep.
Detection of viral, bacterial, and parasitological RNA or DNA of nine intestinal pathogens in fecal samples archived as part of the english infectious intestinal disease study: assessment of the stability of target nucleic acid.	Fecal samples were collected from cases and controls as part of the Infectious Intestinal Disease (IID) study in England and were stored as frozen suspensions for 8 to 12 years. The purpose of this study was to apply PCR-based procedures to assess the stability of pathogen-specific nucleic acid sequences present in this archive. Samples from which Cryptosporidium, Giardia, Salmonella, Campylobacter, enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAggEC), enterotoxigenic Clostridium perfringens, rotaviruses, noroviruses, or sapoviruses had been previously detected during the IID study using conventional methods were selected from the archive. A generic nucleic acid extraction method to recover RNA or DNA was used. Complementary DNA was generated from RNA by reverse transcription with random priming. Block-based and real-time PCR assays were used to amplify and detect gene fragments from each of these pathogens. The percentage reconfirmation of target was as follows: Giardia duodenalis 68%, Cryptosporidium 96%, Campylobacter 98%, Salmonella 98%, enterotoxigenic C perfringens 34%, EAggEC 93.3%, rotavirus 95%, norovirus 73%, and sapovirus 85%. This study has shown that nucleic acid can be extracted and specific sequences amplified and detected from archived fecal samples. The IID archive therefore represents a valuable resource for further studies, especially the investigation of the samples from which no pathogens had previously been detected.
Microsporidian mitochondrial proteins: expression in Antonospora locustae spores and identification of genes coding for two further proteins.	Microsporidia are obligate intracellular parasites, phylogenetically allied to the fungi. Once considered amitochondriate, now a number of mitochondrion-derived genes have been described from various species, and the relict organelle was recently identified in Trachipleistophora hominis. We have investigated the expression of potential mitochondrial targeted proteins in the spore stage to determine whether the organelle is likely to have a role in the spore or early infection stage. To investigate whether the Antonospora locustae genome codes for a different complement of mitochondrial proteins than Encephalitozoon cuniculi an EST library was searched for putative mitochondrial genes that have not been identified in the E. cuniculi genome project. The spore is the infectious stage of microsporidia, but is generally considered to be metabolically dormant. Fourteen genes for putatively mitochondrion-targeted proteins were shown to be present in purified spore mRNA by 3'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends and EST sequencing. Pyruvate dehydrogenase E1alpha and mitochondrial glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase proteins were also shown to be present in A. locustae and E. cuniculi spores, respectively, suggesting a role for these proteins in the early stages of infection, or within the spore itself. EST sequencing also revealed two mitochondrial protein-encoding genes in A. locustae that are not found in the genome of E. cuniculi. One encodes a possible pyruvate transporter, the other a subunit of the mitochondrial inner membrane peptidase. In yeast mitochondria, this protein is part of a trimeric complex that processes proteins targeted to the inner membrane and the intermembrane space, and its substrate in A. locustae is presently unknown.
Ribosomal DNA sequences in the differentiation of pathogenic and non-pathogenic isolates of Entamoeba histolytica.	Recombinant ribosomal DNA sequences were amplified by PCR and used as probes to perform a fingerprint analysis of total DNA from different Entamoeba histolytica isolates. RFLPs obtained with one of the probes, R-1, support previous proposals that pathogenic and non-pathogenic E. histolytica are closely related, yet genotypically distinct. Another probe, R-2, while not distinguishing between the two forms of E. hystolytica, was able to differentiate between them and E. moshkovskii, which has morphologically identical cysts and trophozoites. A third probe, BR-1, identified strain-specific RFLPs.
Entamoeba histolytica: computational identification of putative microRNA candidates.	MicroRNAs are an abundant class of approximately 20-24-nucleotide noncoding RNAs that control the expression of several genes at the post-transcriptional level, regulating several important biochemical pathways. MicroRNAs have been identified in many vertebrates including humans, and also in flies, nematodes, plants, and viruses. In the present work we have identified seventeen putative candidate microRNAs in the pathogenic parasite Entamoeba histolytica using a bioinformatic approach. Putative microRNA identification in E. histolytica may act as a starting reference for cloning and characterization of miRNAs in Entamoeba genome.
Paralytic shellfish toxin profiles and toxin variability of the genus Alexandrium (Dinophyceae) isolated from the Southeast China Sea.	Paralytic shellfish toxin (PST) profiles of 16 Alexandrium isolates from the Southeast China Sea were analyzed by high-pressure liquid chromatography. Toxin content and composition of three A. tamarense isolates, ATDH01, ATGX02 and ATMJ02, were also investigated at different growth phases and under various culture conditions. Our results showed that six strains of A. affine were non-toxic, while 10 strains of A. tamarense and A. catenella were toxic. These toxic isolates grown in the same culture conditions consistently produced an unusually high proportion of the N-sulfocarbamoyl toxin C1/2 (around 60-80% of total toxins) and medium amounts of gonyautoxin GTX5 (around 15-30% of total) with only trace quantities (<5% of total) of other saxitoxin derivatives (i.e. GTX1, GTX3, GTX4 and neoSTX). The toxin composition of three A. tamarense isolates did not vary with the growth phases, although higher toxin contents (Qt, fmolcell(-1)) were found in the exponential phase. Variations in temperature, salinity and nutrient levels affected toxin content of three A. tamarense isolates but they did not have pronounced effects on the toxin composition (mole %). These results indicate that toxin composition remained relatively constant under various culture conditions, suggesting that toxin composition could be used as a stable biomarker for the Alexandrium species in this region. However, comparison of toxin profiles between isolates from different localities require special caution since isolates even from the same region can have distinct toxin profiles.
Molecular characterization of a Babesia species identified in a North American raccoon.	Piroplasmosis was first described in raccoons (Procyon lotor) in 1926, and the official description of a small piroplasm as Babesia lotori was done in 1981. Babesia microti-like gene sequences have been characterized in raccoons in both North American and Japan. It is well documented that the microscopic appearance of piroplasms does not always accurately predict the genotype and phylogenetic classification. Discrepancies using phenotype to predict genotype have been reported most frequently when evaluating small piroplasms. We amplified and sequenced the full-length 18S rRNA gene from a small piroplasm identified in a raccoon and used this sequence for phylogenetic analyses. Based on these analyses, the organism was placed in the Babesia sensu stricto clade, confirming that it is a true Babesia sp. This documents that at least two Babesia spp. can infect raccoons. The data generated in this study can be used to design molecular diagnostic tests for detection of this Babesia sp., which will be useful for epidemiologic and comparative phylogenetic studies. As piroplasmosis has been documented with increased frequency in humans in recent years, the results of this study will aid in the recognition of zoonotic babesiosis.
Leishmania aethiopica: identification and characterization of cathepsin L-like cysteine protease genes.	There is limited information on the biology and pathogenesis of Leishmania aethiopica, causative agent of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) in Ethiopia. In this study we have identified and characterized two cathepsin L-like cysteine protease genes, Laecpa and Laecpb, from L. aethiopica. The predicted amino acid sequence of Laecpa and Laecpb is more than 75% identical with homologous cathepsin L-like cysteine protease genes of other Leishmania species and less than 50% identical with human cathepsin L. Laecpa is expressed predominantly in the stationary, and to a lower level, during the amastigote stage while Laecpb is specifically expressed in the stationary stage of L. aethiopica development. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the two genes are grouped into separate clades which are the result of gene duplication. The isolation of these genes will be useful in developing Leishmania species specific diagnostics for molecular epidemiological studies and serves as a first step to study the role of cysteine proteases in L. aethiopica pathogenesis.
Characterization of a recombinant Eimeria acervulina antigen expressed in sporozoite and merozoite developmental stages.	A cDNA from Eimeria acervulina encoding an immunogenic region of antigens shared between sporozoites and merozoites was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. Immunofluorescence staining of sporozoites, merozoites, and coccidial-infected intestinal tissue with monoclonal antibody used to detect the recombinant clone indicated that the epitope was present on internal parasite proteins. Immunostaining of nitrocellulose paper containing protein from both asexual stages revealed numerous sporozoite antigens (18-120 kDa) and only 1 merozoite antigen (150 kDa). Northern blot hybridization assays using this cDNA clone for probing sporozoite and merozoite RNA showed that distinct transcripts were present in both asexual stages. Similar to the immunofluorescence studies, many homologous RNAs were observed in sporozoites (3.7-13 kb) and only 1 prominent hybridizing species was found in merozoites (3.3 kb). The recombinant coccidial antigen, designated MA16, is a 125-kDa beta-galactosidase fusion protein, representing about 10 kDa of parasite protein. In blastogenesis assays, purified recombinant MA16 antigen is capable of activating T lymphocytes obtained from E. acervulina-immune inbred chickens. DNA sequencing of MA16 clone and analysis of the predicted amino acid sequence indicated several putative T cell epitopes that may be responsible for the observed in vitro blastogenic response.
Identification of Pentatrichomonas hominis in feline fecal samples by polymerase chain reaction assay.	Pentatrichomonas hominis is considered to be a commensal protozoan of the vertebrate digestive tract. On the basis of light microscopic examination of feces, some investigators presumptively identified P. hominis as a causative agent of feline diarrhea. However, molecular identification of P. hominis infection in the cat has not been reported. Another trichomonad, Tritrichomonas foetus, is recognized as an intestinal pathogen in cats and often presumptively diagnosed on the basis of the presence of trichomonads in diarrheic feces. It is of importance to determine if cats are natural hosts for P. hominis, as the presence of this organism could result in inaccurate assumption of T. foetus infection. In this study, we used a species-specific PCR assay to identify P. hominis 18S rRNA genes in fecal samples collected from a convenience population of cats in which a high prevalence of T. foetus infection had been previously identified (cat show) or suspected (submitted for T. foetus diagnostic testing). The prevalence of T. foetus infection in these samples was 31% and 28.6%, respectively. P. hominis infection was identified by PCR of DNA extracted from feces of five cats (1.9% and 2.1% of fecal samples, respectively). All cats in which P. hominis was identified were also infected with T. foetus. PCR identification of P. hominis infection in the cat should facilitate future studies to determine the pathogenicity of this species and enable differentiation of P. hominis from other known or as-yet unidentified species of trichomonads that may infect cats.
Molecular factors and biochemical pathways induced by febrile temperature in intraerythrocytic Plasmodium falciparum parasites.	Intermittent episodes of febrile illness are the most benign and recognized symptom of infection with malaria parasites, although the effects on parasite survival and virulence remain unclear. In this study, we identified the molecular factors altered in response to febrile temperature by measuring differential expression levels of individual genes using high-density oligonucleotide microarray technology and by performing biological assays in asexual-stage Plasmodium falciparum parasite cultures incubated at 37 degrees C and 41 degrees C (an elevated temperature that is equivalent to malaria-induced febrile illness in the host). Elevated temperature had a profound influence on expression of individual genes; 336 of approximately 5,300 genes (6.3% of the genome) had altered expression profiles. Of these, 163 genes (49%) were upregulated by twofold or greater, and 173 genes (51%) were downregulated by twofold or greater. In-depth sensitive sequence profile analysis revealed that febrile temperature-induced responses caused significant alterations in the major parasite biologic networks and pathways and that these changes are well coordinated and intricately linked. One of the most notable transcriptional changes occurs in genes encoding proteins containing the predicted Pexel motifs that are exported into the host cytoplasm or inserted into the host cell membrane and are likely to be associated with erythrocyte remodeling and parasite sequestration functions. Using our sensitive computational analysis, we were also able to assign biochemical or biologic functional predictions for at least 100 distinct genes previously annotated as "hypothetical." We find that cultivation of P. falciparum parasites at 41 degrees C leads to parasite death in a time-dependent manner. The presence of the "crisis forms" and the terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling-positive parasites following heat treatment strongly support the notion that an apoptosis-like cell death mechanism might be induced in response to febrile temperatures. These studies enhance the possibility of designing vaccines and drugs on the basis of disruption in molecules and pathways of parasite survival and virulence activated in response to febrile temperatures.
Human pulmonary trichomonoses]	Colonization of human lungs by various Trichomonas species is a frequent occurrence, but is unknown to most physicians. At this site of infection, the parasite develops into an amoeboid form that renders it unrecognizable. For this reason it has been overlooked until recently. Morphological identification is not feasible under these conditions and molecular tools provide the only means of identification. The species involved are not restricted to Trichomonas tenax, a saprophyte of the mouth that is usually cited in the rare cases of pleuropulmonary trichomoniasis reported in the literature. The recent discovery of species previously unknown in humans raises further questions, including the zoonotic potential of these microorganisms and the existence of species of animal origin that have adapted to humans. Anaerobiosis in poorly ventilated alveolar lumen, rather than immunodepression, seems to be the factor that promotes proliferation of this parasite. The diagnosis of trichomoniasis and its treatment by specific drugs will make it possible to evaluate the pathogenicity of these parasites.
Multilocus genetic analysis of Cryptosporidium isolates from Saudi Arabia.	A total of 35 Cryptosporidium positive samples were collected from children in Jeddah city. The samples were microscopically examined with Ziehl Neelsen (ZN) and Auramin phenol (AP) staining methods. Cryptosporidium antigen was detected in the faecal samples by using the Cryptosporidium ELISA kit. Cryptosporidium sp. were identified by targeting an 840 bp of the hyper-variable region of the 18S rRNA gene and about 550 of the first domain (N terminal) of the COWP gene. The sub-genotypic identification of C. parvum and C. hominis isolates was done by targeting the sporozoite antigen gp15/45/60 gene. Four sp. were identified; C. hominis 13/35 (37%), C. parvum 15/35 (42.9%), C. meleagridis 1/35(2.9 %), & C. muris 1/35 (2.9 %). One isolate was a mixed infection of C. parvum & C. hominis.
Leishmania: genus identification based on a specific sequence of the 18S ribosomal RNA sequence.	The analysis of PvuII restriction patterns of Leishmania spp. and Trypanosoma spp. genomic DNA showed genus distinctive profiles. A specific PvuII site was detected in the 5' domain of 18S ribosomal DNA of Leishmania. A 20-mer oligonucleotide encompassing this PvuII region was synthesized. This sequence, when utilized as probe, on short exposures of dot tests, detected 10(3) whole promastigotes of all Leishmania species analyzed but did not hybridize with T. cruzi or human nucleic acids. Two other oligonucleotides were synthesized to be used as primers for amplification through polymerase chain reaction of the 18S ribosomal DNA region containing the PvuII site. The probes described may be useful for the detection of Leishmania spp. under clinical and epidemiological trials.
Changes in the messenger RNA population during sporulation of Eimeria maxima.	Messenger RNA has been extracted from oocysts of Eimeria maxima. Using the techniques of in vitro translation and SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, we have been able to show that major changes in gene transcription occur during sporulation. Following an overall reduction in the abundance of many mRNAs, several genes identified as the result of an increase in the abundance of their transcripts, are highly expressed during the latter stages of sporulation. A study of two genes whose transcription is down-regulated has provided evidence which shows that both single copy and repetitive sequences are regulated during sporulation of the oocyst.
Minicircle-encoded guide RNAs from Crithidia fasciculata.	Although the mitochondrial uridine insertion/deletion, guide RNA (gRNA)-mediated type of RNA editing has been described in Crithidia fasciculata, no evidence for the encoding of gRNAs in the kinetoplast minicircle DNA has been presented. There has also been a question as to the capacity of the minicircle DNA in this species to encode the required variety of gRNAs, because the kinetoplast DNA from the C1 strain has been reported as essentially containing a single minicircle sequence class. To address this problem, the genomic and mature edited sequences of the MURF4 and RPS12 cryptogenes were determined and a gRNA library was constructed from mitochondrial RNA. Five specific gRNAs were identified, two of which edit blocks within the MURF4 mRNA, and three of which edit blocks within the RPS12 mRNA. The genes for these gRNAs are all localized with identical polarity within one of the two variable regions of specific minicircle molecules, approximately 60 bp from the "bend" region. These minicircles were found to represent minor sequence classes representing approximately 2% of the minicircle DNA population in the network. The major minicircle sequence class also encodes a gRNA at the same relative genomic location, but the editing role of this gRNA was not determined. These results confirm that kinetoplast minicircle DNA molecules in this species encode gRNAs, as is the case in other trypanosomatids, and suggest that the copy number of specific minicircle sequence classes can vary dramatically without an overall effect on the RNA editing system.
Differential expression in blood stages of the gene coding for the 21-kilodalton surface protein of ookinetes of Plasmodium berghei as detected by RNA in situ hybridisation.	The developmentally regulated transcription of the gene encoding the ookinete surface protein, Pbs21, has been investigated in the rodent malaria parasite, Plasmodium berghei, by RNA in situ hybridisation using fluorescently labelled DNA probes. We used a procedure that will allow the visualisation of cytoplasmic mRNA in the parasite and of high copy DNA repeats in the nucleus. Specific hybridisation to Pbs21 mRNA occurred in the cytoplasm of female gametocytes, zygotes and ookinetes, while asexual blood stages, male gametocytes and gametes showed no fluorescence. Analysis of the transcription of the Pbs21 gene during blood stage development in two tightly synchronised parasite clones using the same methodology revealed that transcription is restricted to sexual stages and is initiated in immature gametocytes at 19 h post invasion (hpi). At this point in development it is not yet possible to discriminate between the morphology of asexual trophozoites and immature gametocytes. At 24 hpi approximately 50% of the gametocytes transcribed the Pbs21 gene and the morphology of these gametocytes was identical and female. The distribution of the mRNA encoding Pbs21 confirmed that post-transcriptional control of expression occurred in the cytoplasm by repression of translation and not through delayed transport of the message to the cytoplasm. The transcription of the Pbs21 gene is the earliest demonstrated event in gametocytogenesis in rodent malaria species to date.
Developmental regulation of RNA editing and polyadenylation in four life cycle stages of Trypanosoma congolense.	The accumulation of many edited mRNAs is developmentally regulated in a transcript-specific fashion in Trypanosoma brucei. In addition, these transcripts are frequently present in two size classes which differ substantially in the lengths of their poly(A) tails, and poly(A) tail length is also developmentally regulated. Previously, these phenomena have only been studied in the mammalian bloodstream and insect procyclic forms (BF and PF, respectively) of T. brucei. In this paper, we examine developmental regulation of edited RNA abundance and poly(A) tail length of 3 mitochondrially encoded RNAs in mammalian BF and 3 insect stages (PF, epimastigotes, and metacyclics) of T. congolense. T. congolense BF and PF are similar, but not identical, to these stages of T. brucei with regard to edited RNA accumulation and poly(A) tail length. At the level of edited RNA, both epimastigotes and metacyclic stage parasites appear to be pre-adapted for the respiratory mechanisms of BF but not yet down-regulated from the cytochrome-based respiration of PF since edited RNAs encoding NADH dehydrogenase components are up-regulated and edited CYb RNA is abundant in these stages. Poly(A) tail lengths of mitochondrial mRNAs appear to be regulated independently of edited RNA abundance. These results indicate that multiple mechanisms for regulation of mitochondrial gene expression are active throughout the trypanosome life cycle.
Leishmania amazonensis: cultivation and characterization of axenic amastigote-like organisms.	Extracellular amastigote-like forms of Leishmania amazonensis can be maintained in axenic culture at 32 degrees C, pH 4.6, with a generation time of approximately 17 hr. This species of Leishmania is of particular interest since it has been associated with cutaneous, diffuse cutaneous, and mucocutaneous forms of the disease. Immunofluorescence, Western and Northern blot analyses, and immunoprecipitation have been used to estimate the expression levels of amastigote or promastigote antigens in axenically cultured amastigotes. In these analyses, monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) specific for either the amastigote (A-1, A-2, P-2, P-4, P-5, P-8) or promastigote (M-2, P-9, and F-4) and a DNA probe that was specific for the amastigote gene encoding the protein reactive with mAb P-4 have been employed. The amastigote-like organisms were infective for peritoneal and J774.G8 macrophages and BALB/c mice. While amastigote-like forms maintained at pH 4.6, 32 degrees C transformed to promastigotes when transferred to pH 7.3, 24 degrees C, transformation of promastigotes to amastigote-like organisms required a period of growth at pH 4.6 24 degrees C prior to transfer to 32 degrees C. This is the first report of the axenic cultivation of L. amazonensis amastigote-like organisms. This species grows in continual culture at a lower pH than any other species characterized to date. These organisms will prove useful in further studies of the biochemistry, immunology, developmental biology, and molecular biology of this parasite.
DNA rehybridization during PCR: the 'Cot effect' and its consequences.	The rate of amplification of abundant PCR products generally declines faster than that of less abundant products in the same tube in the later cycles of PCR. As a consequence, differences in product abundance diminish as the number of PCR cycles increases. Rehybridization of PCR products which may interfere with primer binding or extension can explain this significant feature in late cycles. Rehybridization occurs with a half-time dependent on the reciprocal of the DNA concentration. Thus, if multiple PCR products are amplified in the same tube, reannealing occurs faster for the more abundant PCR products. In RT-PCR using an internal control, this results in a systematic bias against the more abundant of the two PCR products. In RNA fingerprinting by arbitrarily primed PCR (or differentially display of cDNAs), very large or absolute differences in the expression of a transcript between samples are preserved but smaller real differences may be gradually erased as the PCR reaction proceeds. Thus, this 'Cot effect' may systematically cause an underestimate of the true difference in starting template concentrations. However, differences in starting template concentrations will be better preserved in the less abundant PCR products. Furthermore, the slow down in amplification of abundant products will allow these rarer products to become more visible in the fingerprint which may, in turn, allow rarer cDNAs to be sampled more efficiently. In some applications, where the object is to stochiometrically amplify a mixture of nucleic acids, the bias against abundant PCR products can be partly overcome by limiting the number of PCR cycles and, thus, the concentration of the products. In other cases, abundance normalization at later cycles may be useful, such as in the production of normalized libraries.
Identification of stage-regulated and differentiation-enriched transcripts during transformation of the African trypanosome from its bloodstream to procyclic form.	Trypanosoma brucei undergoes dramatic stage-specific changes in surface antigen expression, metabolic development, cellular morphogenesis and cell-cycle control. These events can be studied in detail during the transition between the bloodstream stumpy stage and the tsetse fly midgut procyclic form. This differentiation can be induced in vitro, is synchronous in the population and there are abundant markers for stage-regulated and differentiation events. We have used this differentiation system to investigate the role of de novo transcription during different phases of this well-characterised cellular transformation. Our experiments implicate early transcriptional involvement in shedding of the variable surface glycoprotein coat, cell restructuring and cell-cycle re-entry. The synchrony of differentiation has also been exploited to identify transcripts which define distinct regulated processes during this differentiation. The transcripts identified provide good coverage of the different molecular regulation events that accompany this life-cycle transformation. These included a surface antigen gene (encoding procyclin/PARP), a cell cycle regulated component (encoding histone H2B), a homologue of the Leishmania activated protein kinase C receptor (LACK) and a putative gene for sub unit VI of cytochrome c oxidase.
Identification of a human isolate of Encephalitozoon cuniculi type I from Italy.	A microsporidial strain, obtained from a person with AIDS living in Italy was isolated and cultivated on RK13 (rabbit kidney) cell monolayers. Identification at the species level was performed by immunological and molecular methods. Western blot analysis showed that the human isolate and the Encephalitozoon cuniculi reference strain had similar banding patterns. The small subunit rRNA sequence analysis confirmed the identification of the isolate as E. cuniculi, which is a widespread microsporidian species infecting a wide range of natural hosts, including humans. Moreover, based on the sequence of the rDNA internal transcribed spacer region, this isolate was classified as E. cuniculi type I (rabbit strain), previously reported in six persons with AIDS living in Switzerland. These results provide further information on the geographical distribution of E. cuniculi types.
