Endogenous reverse transcriptase: a mediator of cell proliferation and differentiation.	Endogenous, non-telomeric Reverse Transcriptase (RT) is encoded by two classes of repeated genomic elements, retrotransposons and endogenous retroviruses, and is an essential component of the retrotransposition machinery of both types of elements. Expression of RT-coding genes is generally repressed in non-pathological, terminally differentiated cells, but is active in early embryos, germ cells, embryo and tumor tissues, all of which have a high proliferative potential. To clarify whether reverse transcription is functionally implicated in control of cell growth, differentiation and in embryogenesis, recent experiments have been undertaken to inactivate the endogenous RT activity. RT was inhibited in normal and transformed cell lines by exposure to nevirapine, a non-nucleosidic RT inhibitor. The endogenous RT was also blocked in murine embryos by microinjection of an anti-RT antibody. Both experimental approaches yielded a dramatic inhibition of proliferation. Murine embryos arrested at pre-implantation stages. Transformed cell lines underwent a significant reduction in the rate of cell growth, concomitant with the induction of differentiation. In addition, RT inhibition induced an extensive reprogramming of the gene expression profile both in cultured cell lines and in preimplantation embryos. From these studies, endogenous RT begins to emerge as a key function with a driving role in normal and pathological developmental processes.
Trans-splicing of the Ll.LtrB group II intron in Lactococcus lactis.	The Ll.LtrB intron from the Gram-positive bacterium Lactococcus lactis is one of the most studied bacterial group II introns. Ll.LtrB interrupts the relaxase gene of three L. lactis conjugative elements. The relaxase enzyme recognizes the origin of transfer (oriT ) and initiates the intercellular transfer of its conjugative element. The splicing efficiency of Ll.LtrB from the relaxase transcript thus controls the conjugation level of its host element. Here, we used the level of sex factor conjugation as a read-out for Ll.LtrB splicing efficiency. Using this highly sensitive splicing/conjugation assay (10(7)-fold detection range), we demonstrate that Ll.LtrB can trans-splice in L. lactis when fragmented at various positions such as: three different locations within domain IV, within domain I and within domain III. We also demonstrate that the intron-encoded protein, LtrA, is absolutely required for Ll.LtrB trans-splicing. Characteristic Y-branched trans-spliced introns and ligated exons are detected by RT-PCR from total RNA extracts of cells harbouring fragmented Ll.LtrB. The splicing/conjugation assay we developed constitutes the first model system to study group II intron trans-splicing in vivo. Although only previously observed in bacterial-derived organelles, we demonstrate that assembly and trans-splicing of a fragmented group II intron can take place efficiently in bacterial cells.
Distinct mechanisms for trans-mediated mobilization of cellular RNAs by the LINE-1 reverse transcriptase.	Long Interspersed Element-1 (LINE-1 or L1) sequences comprise approximately 17% of human DNA and ongoing L1 retrotransposition continues to impact genome evolution. The L1-encoded proteins also can mobilize other cellular RNAs (e.g., Alu retrotransposons, SVA retrotransposons, and U6 snRNAs), which comprise approximately 13% of human DNA. Here, we demonstrate that the trans-mediated mobilization of non-L1 RNAs can occur by either template choice or template-switching mechanisms. Remarkably, these mechanisms are not mutually exclusive, as both processes can operate sequentially on the same RNA template. Finally, we provide evidence that efficient U6 snRNA retrotransposition requires both ORF1p and ORF2p, providing indirect evidence for the action of ORF1p in U6 snRNA retrotransposition. Thus, we propose that the LINE-1-encoded reverse transcriptase can mediate the retrotransposition of non-L1 RNAs by distinct mechanisms.
A group II intron RNA is a catalytic component of a DNA endonuclease involved in intron mobility.	The mobility (homing) of the yeast mitochondrial DNA group II intron al2 occurs via target DNA-primed reverse transcription at a double-strand break in the recipient DNA. Here, we show that the site-specific DNA endonuclease that makes the double-strand break is a ribonucleoprotein complex containing the al2-encoded reverse transcriptase protein and excised al2 RNA. Remarkably, the al2 RNA catalyzes cleavage of the sense strand of the recipient DNA, while the al2 protein appears to cleave the antisense strand. The RNA-catalyzed sense strand cleavage occurs via a partial reverse splicing reaction in which the protein component stabilizes the active intron structure and appears to confer preference for DNA substrates. Our results demonstrate a biologically relevant ribozyme reaction with a substrate other than RNA.
