Colocalization within the nucleolus of two highly related IFN-induced human nuclear phosphoproteins with nucleolin.	We have previously reported the identification of two interferon (IFN)-induced cDNAs which code for two proteins, named 41 and 75, which have homology to a number of proteins involved in regulating gene expression. Here we establish that these cDNAs correspond to in vivo synthesized mRNAs. Expression of the 41 and 75 cDNAs, both in vitro and in vivo, generated proteins of 30 and 68 kDa, respectively. In a variety of mammalian cells, 41 and 75 were found to be located in the nucleus, with 41 being localized to the nucleolus, whereas 75, although it is mainly concentrated at the periphery of the nucleolus, is also found throughout the nucleoplasm. Treatment with interferon results in a translocation of 41 to the periphery of the nucleolus and it is in this region that the two proteins colocalize. 41 and 75 were found to colocalize with nucleolin but not with B23 or fibrillarin, three nucleolar proteins involved in ribosome synthesis. This colocalization was not affected by low concentrations of actinomycin D. In view of this and since 41 and 75 have homology to proteins involved in regulating gene expression, we suggest that, in association with nucleolin, they play a role in ribosome biogenesis.
RNA polymerase II targets pre-mRNA splicing factors to transcription sites in vivo.	Biochemical evidence indicates that pre-mRNA splicing factors physically interact with the C-terminal domain of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II. We have investigated the in vivo function of this interaction. In mammalian cells, truncation of the CTD of RNA pol II LS prevents the targeting of the splicing machinery to a transcription site. In the absence of the CTD, pre-mRNA splicing is severely reduced. The presence of unspliced RNA alone is not sufficient for the accumulation of splicing factors at the transcription site, nor for its efficient splicing. Our results demonstrate a critical role for the CTD of RNA pol II LS in the intranuclear targeting of splicing factors to transcription sites in vivo.
Immunohistochemical detection of cytotoxic lymphocytes in malignant serous effusions.	The use of ancillary techniques to aid in the diagnosis of metastatic carcinoma in serous effusions has been the subject of numerous studies. In this article, we study 35 cases of malignant effusions (metastatic adenocarcinoma) and 20 benign effusions using a panel of immunohistochemical markers to determine whether changes in the subpopulations of accompanying lymphoid cells can be detected with this technique and whether such changes are associated with the presence of malignancy. We noted a significant increase in cytotoxic lymphocytes, defined as the percentage of all lymphoid cells staining with an antibody to TIA-1 (an antigen localized to the cytotoxic granule membranes of cytotoxic T cells and natural killer cells) in malignant compared with benign effusions (23% vs. 12%; P < 0.05). In addition, nearly all cases in which cytotoxic lymphocytes composed > 20% of the lymphoid cell population contained metastatic tumor. Thus, immunohistochemical staining for TIA-1 can reliably detect cytotoxic lymphocytes in cell blocks of serous effusions; in addition, a relative increase in their number is associated with the presence of malignancy.
Oligomerization of polyalanine expanded PABPN1 facilitates nuclear protein aggregation that is associated with cell death.	Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is an adult-onset disorder characterized by progressive eyelid drooping, swallowing difficulties and proximal limb weakness. The autosomal dominant form of this disease is caused by short expansions of a (GCG)(6) repeat to (GCG)(8-13) in the PABPN1 gene, which results in the expansion of a polyalanine stretch from 10 to 12-17 alanines in the N-terminus of the protein. Mutated PABPN1 (mPABPN1) is able to induce nuclear protein aggregation and form filamentous nuclear inclusions, which are the pathological hallmarks of OPMD. PABPN1, when bound to poly(A) RNA, forms both linear filaments and discrete-sized, compact oligomeric particles in vitro. In the absence of poly(A) RNA, PABPN1 can form oligomers. Here we report that: (i) oligomerization of PABPN1 is mediated by two potential oligomerization domains (ODs); (ii) inactivating oligomerization of mPABPN1 by deletions of 6-8 amino acids in either of the ODs prevents nuclear protein aggregation; (iii) expression of mPABPN1 in COS-7 cells is associated with cell death; and (iv) preventing nuclear protein aggregation by inactivating oligomerization of mPABPN1 significantly reduces cell death. These findings suggest that oligomerization of PABPN1 plays a crucial role in the formation of OPMD nuclear protein aggregation, while the expanded polyalanine stretch is necessary but not sufficient to induce OPMD protein aggregation, and that the nuclear protein aggregation might be toxic and cause cell death. These observations also imply that inactivation of oligomerization of mPABPN1 might be a useful therapeutic strategy for OPMD.
Extranodal cytotoxic T-cell lymphoma in a patient with X-linked agammaglobulinaemia.	This report documents the occurrence of an extranodal cytotoxic peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) in a patient with X-linked agammaglobulinaemia (XLA). The diagnosis was based on the immunohistochemical detection of T-cell antigens and of the cytotoxic proteins TIA1 and Granzyme B in the tumour cells. This report provides further evidence that cytotoxic lymphomas are part of the differential diagnosis of neoplasia in patients with immunodeficiencies.
Is collagen breakdown during periodontitis linked to inflammatory cells and expression of matrix metalloproteinases and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases in human gingival tissue?	Evidence of the role of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) produced by resident and inflammatory cells in periodontal destruction is now well established. The purpose of this study was to quantify, in healthy and diseased upper gingival connective tissue, the area fraction (AA%) occupied by collagen fibers, the cell number belonging to inflammatory cell subsets, and the amounts of MMPs and TIMPs (tissue inhibitors of MMPs) in order to investigate the possible correlations, if any, between such molecules, collagen loss, and inflammatory cell subsets.
The search for Brachyspira outer membrane proteins that interact with the host.	Little is known about the outer membrane structure of Brachyspira hyodysenteriae and Brachyspira pilosicoli or the role of outer membrane proteins (OMPs) in host colonization and the development of disease. The isolation of outer membrane vesicles from B. hyodysenteriae has confirmed that cholesterol is a significant outer membrane constituent and that it may impart unique characteristics to the lipid bilayer structure, including a reduced density. Unique proteins that have been identified in the B. hyodysenteriae outer membrane include the variable surface proteins (Vsp) and lipoproteins such as SmpA and BmpB. While the function of these proteins remains to be determined, there is indirect evidence to suggest that they may be involved in immune evasion. These data may explain the ability of the organism to initiate chronic infection. OMPs may be responsible for the unique attachment of B. pilosicoli to colonic epithelial cells; however, the only B. pilosicoli OMPs that have been identified to date are involved in metabolism. In order to identify further B. pilosicoli OMPs we have isolated membrane vesicle fractions from porcine strain 95-1000 by osmotic lysis and isopycnic centrifugation. The fractions were free of contamination by cytoplasm and flagella and contained outer membrane. Inner membrane contamination was minimal but could not be completely excluded. An abundant 45-kDa, heat-modifiable protein was shown to have significant homology with B. hyodysenteriae Vsp, and monoclonal antibodies were produced that reacted with five B. pilosicoli-specific membrane protein epitopes. The first of these proteins to be characterized is a unique surface-exposed lipoprotein.
TbMP44 is essential for RNA editing and structural integrity of the editosome in Trypanosoma brucei.	RNA editing produces mature mitochondrial mRNAs in trypanosomatids by the insertion and deletion of uridylates. It is catalyzed by a multiprotein complex, the editosome. We identified TbMP44 among the components of enriched editosomes by a combination of mass spectrometry and DNA sequence database analysis. Inactivation of an ectopic TbMP44 allele in cells in which the endogenous alleles were disrupted abolished RNA editing, inhibited cell growth, and was eventually lethal to bloodstream form trypanosomes. Loss of TbMP44 mRNA was followed initially by a reduction in the editosome sedimentation coefficient and then by the absence of other editosome proteins despite the presence of the mRNA. Reactivation of TbMP44 gene expression resulted in the resumption of cell growth and the reappearance of editosomes. These data indicate that TbMP44 is a component of the editosome that is essential for editing and critical for the structural integrity of the editosome.
Transgenic overexpression of the oncofetal RNA binding protein KOC leads to remodeling of the exocrine pancreas.	To elucidate the function of the oncofetal RNA-binding protein, K-homologous (KH) domain containing protein overexpressed in cancer (KOC), we studied the effect of a constitutive reexpression of KOC in transgenic mice.
Expression of cold-inducible RNA-binding protein in the normal endometrium, endometrial hyperplasia, and endometrial carcinoma.	Cold-inducible RNA-binding protein (CIRP), an 18-kD protein in the mouse and human, is induced by lowering the temperature of cultured cells. CIRP is possibly a cell cycle regulator because its overexpression results in prolongation of G1 phase in vitro. We investigated the immunohistochemical expression of CIRP in 39 endometrial carcinomas, 12 endometrial hyperplasias, and 27 normal endometria using polyclonal antibody against CIRP and confirmed by Western blot analysis. CIRP was localized in the nuclei of glandular, stromal, and endothelial cells. The intensity of CIRP expression in glandular cells during the menstrual cycle was inversely proportional to its proliferative (Ki-67) activity, whereas it remained unchanged in stromal and vascular endothelial cells. The intensity of CIRP expression in hyperplastic glands was variable, whereas CIRP expression was absent or markedly reduced in most of the endometrial carcinomas. These results suggest that CIRP may participate in the cell cycle regulation of normal endometrium and the loss of its expression may be involved in endometrial carcinogenesis.
Micronodular T-cell/histiocyte-rich large B-cell lymphoma of the spleen: histology, immunophenotype, and differential diagnosis.	Occasionally, primary large B-cell lymphomas (LBLs) arising in the spleen present with a micronodular pattern involving the splenic white pulp but sparing the red pulp. Histologically, the nodules contain scattered large B cells in a background of numerous T cells and histiocytes. They can cause substantial difficulty in histologic diagnosis as the morphology can mimic reactive and inflammatory lesions as well as other lymphoid neoplasms. In this study, we examined the histology and immunophenotype of the micronodular T-cell/histiocyte-rich LBL (MTLBL) of the spleen with a view to establish the characteristics that may be helpful in diagnosis. Paraffin-embedded material from 17 cases of MTLBL was studied. Clinical features and histology were reviewed and immunohistochemistry was performed for immunoglobulins, CD20, CD79a, CD3, CD68, CD10, BCL6, BCL2, OCT-2, epithelial membrane antigen, CD30, CD138, and EBV markers. The median age of presentation was 56 years, and the most frequent presenting features were anemia and B symptoms. All cases showed a micronodular pattern of involvement. The tumor nodules comprised a mixture of numerous CD3+ T cells and CD68+ histiocytes and scattered large CD20+ B cells with immunoglobulin light chain restriction. They were positive for BCL6 and OCT2 but negative for CD10, CD138, and EBV markers. There was variable expression of epithelial membrane antigen, Bcl-2, and CD30. No follicle dendritic cell meshwork infrastructure underlying the nodules could be demonstrated by staining for CD21 or CD35 antigens. The prognosis was poor; seven of the 12 cases with follow-up were dead within 2 years. MTLBL is unique variant of T-cell/histiocyte-rich diffuse LBL, characterized by primary splenic presentation and a micronodular architecture. The main differential diagnoses include granulomatous inflammation, Hodgkin's lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, and peripheral T-cell lymphomas.
Mass spectrometric analysis of the editosome and other multiprotein complexes in Trypanosoma brucei.	The composition of the editosome, a multi-protein complex that catalyzes uridine insertion and deletion RNA editing to produce mature mitochondrial mRNAs in trypanosomes, was analyzed by mass spectrometry. The editosomes were isolated by column chromatography, glycerol gradient sedimentation, and monoclonal antibody affinity purifications. At least 16 proteins form the catalytic core of the editosome, and additional associated proteins were identified. Analyses of mitochondrial fractions identified several non-editosome proteins and multi-protein complexes. These studies contribute to the functional annotation of T. brucei genome.
Localization of the RNA-binding proteins Staufen1 and Staufen2 at the mammalian neuromuscular junction.	Staufen is an RNA-binding protein, first identified for its role in oogenesis and CNS development in Drosophila. Two mammalian homologs of Staufen have been identified and shown to bind double-stranded RNA and tubulin, and to function in the somatodendritic transport of mRNA in neurons. Here, we examined whether Staufen proteins are expressed in skeletal muscle in relation to the neuromuscular junction. Immunofluorescence experiments revealed that Staufen1 (Stau1) and Staufen2 (Stau2) accumulate preferentially within the postsynaptic sarcoplasm of muscle fibers as well as at newly formed ectopic synapses. Western blot analyses showed that the levels of Stau1 and Stau2 are greater in slow muscles than in fast-twitch muscles. Muscle denervation induced a significant increase in the expression of Stau1 and Stau2 in the extrasynaptic compartment of both fast and slow muscles. Consistent with these observations, we also demonstrated that expression of Stau1 and Stau2 is increased during myogenic differentiation and that treatment of myotubes with agrin and neuregulin induces a further increase in the expression of both Staufen proteins. We propose that Stau1 and Stau2 are key components of the postsynaptic apparatus in muscle, and that they contribute to the maturation and plasticity of the neuromuscular junction.
Spatiotemporal patterns of Musashi1 expression during inner ear development.	Musashi1 (Msi 1) is an RNA binding protein associated with asymmetric cell divisions in neural progenitor cells. To investigate the involvement of Msi1 in the inner ear development, we studied the expression of Msi1 in mouse inner ears with RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. Immunohistochemistry revealed that Msi1 was expressed in all otocyst cells at embryonic day (E) 10 and 12. Msi1 immunoreactivity became lost in hair cells after E14 in vestibule and after E16 in cochlea, whereas it persisted in supporting cells until adulthood. The subcellular localization of Msi1 changed from "cytoplasmic predominance" to "nuclear predominance" during the first 2 weeks after birth. The present data suggested that Msi may play a role in inner ear development.
Mass spectrometric identification of RNA binding proteins from dried EMSA gels.	Electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) are commonly employed for the analysis of nucleic acid/ protein interactions with a native gel system. Here, we report a method to identify RNA binding proteins from a dried EMSA gel by mass spectrometry following autoradiography. Compared to wet gel exposure, our approach resulted in an improved protein identification sensitivity and RNA/protein complex isolation accuracy. The method described here is useful for the large scale characterization of RNA- or DNA-protein complexes.
Spatio-temporal expression of a DAZ-like gene in the Japanese newt Cynops pyrrhogaster that has no germ plasm.	To investigate the germ cell specification in urodeles, we cloned a DAZ-like sequence from the Japanese newt Cynops pyrrhogaster, Cydazl, and raised antibodies specific to Cydazl. Cydazl is a homologue of the human DAZ (deleted in azoospermia), DAZL, and Xenopus dazl genes, which are involved in gametogenesis or germ cell specification. During gametogenesis, expression of Cydazl mRNA and Cydazl protein was detected at first in the small previtellogenic oocytes in females but was not localized as seen in Xenopus and was restricted to secondary spermatogonia prior to meiosis in males. During early embryogenesis, maternal stores of the Cydazl transcript and protein were present in the entire embryos, not localized in any specific region. The zygotic expression was detected in hatching larvae (stage 50) by RT-PCR analysis whereas specific cells expressing Cydazl could not be determined by in situ hybridization at this stage. Strong expression of Cydazl and Cydazl were detected in primordial germ cells (PGCs) that had entered the gonadal rudiment at late stage 59. These results suggest that Cydazl does not function early in development, for the specification of germ cells, but functions later for differentiation of germ cells in the developing gonads during embryogenesis and for meiotic regulation, supporting the previous idea of an intermediate germ cell formation mode in urodeles.
Mapping nonverbal IQ in young boys with fragile X syndrome.	This study examines the developmental changes in nonverbal intellectual functioning evident in males with fragile X syndrome (FXS) measured by the Leiter International Performance Scales-Revised (Leiter-R). The Leiter-R provides both IQ scores and associated growth scores which permit the examination of both age-based IQ scores and overall intellectual growth. Participants were 45 males with full mutation FXS and ranged in age from 4.0 to 13.8 years. Each child was assessed annually using the Leiter-R as part of a larger longitudinal battery for an average of 3.5 assessments per child and a range of 2-6 assessments, representing a total of 156 assessment occasions. Longitudinal analyzes of Leiter scores consisted primarily of hierarchical linear modeling, with the impact of chronological age, maternal education, fragile X mental retardation 1 protein (FMRP), autistic behaviors also being assessed. Findings revealed a significant linear decline in nonverbal IQ scores, with no effects of maternal education, autistic behaviors, or FMRP on mean level or rate of change in IQ scores over time. The decline slowed significantly around 8 years of age, but scores continued to decline into the 12th year of age. In contrast, a significant linear increase was observed in Leiter-R growth scores, which was negatively influenced by autistic behaviors. The rate of increase did not change over time, and neither mean level nor rate of increase was influenced by maternal education or FMRP levels. These findings suggest that declines in IQ are the result of steady, but suboptimal intellectual growth, rather than a true deterioration in overall intellectual functioning.
Identification of translocatable RNA-binding phloem proteins from melon, potential components of the long-distance RNA transport system.	Phloem proteins (P-proteins) are an enigmatic group of proteins present in most angiosperm species. The best characterized P-proteins (PP1 and PP2) are synthesized in companion cells, transported into sieve elements via pore plasmodesmata and translocated through the plant. Characteristics such as long-distance translocation, RNA-binding activity and capacity of increasing plasmodesmata exclusion size suggest that certain phloem proteins could be involved in RNA transport within the plant, forming translocatable ribonucleoprotein complexes with endogenous or pathogenic RNAs. Long-distance movement of RNA through the phloem is a process known to occur, but both the mechanisms involved and the components constituting this potential information network remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that several melon phloem proteins have a wide RNA-binding activity. Serological assays strongly suggest that one of these proteins is the melon phloem protein 2 (CmmPP2). Mass spectrometry analysis undoubtedly identifies another one as the recently characterized melon phloem lectin (CmmLec17). Grafting experiments demonstrate that the CmmLec17 is a translocatable phloem protein, able to move through intergeneric grafts from melon to pumpkin. Translocatability and RNA-binding activity was also demonstrated for an uncharacterized protein of approximately 14 kDa. In light of these results the possible involvement of these phloem proteins in the long-distance transport of melon RNAs is discussed.
A family of RS domain proteins with novel subcellular localization and trafficking.	We report the sequence, conservation and cell biology of a novel protein, Psc1, which is expressed and regulated within the embryonic pluripotent cell population of the mouse. The Psc1 sequence includes an RS domain and an RNA recognition motif (RRM), and a sequential arrangement of protein motifs that has not been demonstrated for other RS domain proteins. This arrangement was conserved in a second mouse protein (BAC34721). The identification of Psc1 and BAC34721 homologues in vertebrates and related proteins, more widely throughout evolution, defines a new family of RS domain proteins termed acidic rich RS (ARRS) domain proteins. Psc1 incorporated into the nuclear speckles, but demonstrated novel aspects of subcellular distribution including localization to speckles proximal to the nuclear periphery and localization to punctate structures in the cytoplasm termed cytospeckles. Integration of Psc1 into cytospeckles was dependent on the RRM. Cytospeckles were dynamic within the cytoplasm and appeared to traffic into the nucleus. These observations suggest a novel role in RNA metabolism for ARRS proteins.
Inhibition of protein synthesis by Y box-binding protein 1 blocks oncogenic cell transformation.	The multifunctional Y box-binding protein 1 (YB-1) is transcriptionally repressed by the oncogenic phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway (with P3K as an oncogenic homolog of the catalytic subunit) and, when reexpressed with the retroviral vector RCAS, interferes with P3K- and Akt-induced transformation of chicken embryo fibroblasts. Retrovirally expressed YB-1 binds to the cap of mRNAs and inhibits cap-dependent and cap-independent translation. To determine the requirements for the inhibitory role of YB-1 in P3K-induced transformation, we conducted a mutational analysis, measuring YB-1-induced interference with transformation, subcellular localization, cap binding, mRNA binding, homodimerization, and inhibition of translation. The results show that (i) interference with transformation requires RNA binding and a C-terminal domain that is distinct from the cytoplasmic retention domain, (ii) interference with transformation is tightly correlated with inhibition of translation, and (iii) masking of mRNAs by YB-1 is not sufficient to block transformation or to inhibit translation. We identified a noncanonical nuclear localization signal (NLS) in the C-terminal half of YB-1. A mutant lacking the NLS retains its ability to interfere with transformation, indicating that a nuclear function is not required. These results suggest that YB-1 interferes with P3K-induced transformation by a specific inhibition of translation through its RNA-binding domain and a region in the C-terminal domain. Potential functions of the C-terminal region are discussed.
Model of Alzheimer's disease amyloid-beta peptide based on a RNA binding protein.	Although Alzheimer's Abeta peptide has been shown to form beta-sheet structure, a high-resolution molecular structure is still unavailable to date. A search for a sequence neighbor using Abeta(10-42) as the query in the Protein Data-Bank (PDB) revealed that an RNA binding protein, AF-Sm1 from Archaeoglobus fulgidus (PDB entry: 1i4k chain Z), shared 36% identical residues. Using AF-Sm1 as a template, we built a molecular model of Abeta(10-42) by applying comparative modeling methods. The model of Abeta(10-42) contains an antiparallel beta-sheet formed by residues 16-23 and 32-41. Hydrophobic surface constituted by residues 17-20 (LVFF) separates distinctly charged regions. Residues that interact with RNA in the AF-Sm1 crystal structure were found to be conserved in Abeta. Using a native gel we demonstrate for the first time that RNA can interact with Abeta and selectively retard the formation of fibrils or higher-order oligomers. We hypothesize that in a similar fashion to AF-Sm1, RNA interacts with Abeta in the beta-hairpin (beta-turn-beta) structure and prevents fibril formation.
Dicer-2 and R2D2 coordinately bind siRNA to promote assembly of the siRISC complexes.	In Drosophila melanogaster, the Dicer-2/R2D2 complex initiates RNA interference (RNAi) by processing long double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) into small interfering RNA (siRNA). Recent biochemical studies suggest that the Dcr-2/R2D2 complex also facilitates incorporation of siRNA into the RNA-induced silencing complex (siRISC). Here we present genetic evidence that R2D2 and Dcr-2 are both required for loading siRNA onto the siRISC complex. Consistent with this, only the Dcr-2/R2D2 complex, but neither Dcr-2 nor R2D2 alone, can efficiently interact with duplex siRNA. Furthermore, both dsRNA-binding domains of R2D2 are critical for binding to siRNA and promoting assembly of the siRISC complexes.
Esg1, expressed exclusively in preimplantation embryos, germline, and embryonic stem cells, is a putative RNA-binding protein with broad RNA targets.	In our earlier attempt to identify genes involved in the maintenance of cellular pluripotency, we found that KH-domain protein Embryonal stem cell-specific gene 1 (Esg1) showed similar expression patterns to those of Oct3/4 (Pou5f1), whereas the forced repression of Oct3/4 in mouse embryonic stem cells immediately downregulated the expression of Esg1. Here we further confirm this overlap by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical analyses. Both Esg1 transcript and protein exist in the egg and preimplantation embryos. At embryonic day 3.5, blastocyst stage, however, ESG1 protein was more abundant in the inner cell mass (ICM) than in trophectoderm (TE), whereas Esg1 transcript was detected in both the ICM and the TE, particularly in the polar trophectoderm. The presence of an RNA-binding KH-domain in ESG1 led us to search for and identify 902 target transcripts by microarray analysis of immunoprecipitated ESG1 complex. Interaction of 20 target mRNA with ESG1, including Cdc25a, Cdc42, Ezh2, Nfyc and Nr5a2, was further validated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction of the immunoprecipitation material, supporting the notion that ESG1 is an RNA-binding protein which associates with specific target transcripts.
Chloroplast heat shock protein Cpn60 from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii exhibits a novel function as a group II intron-specific RNA-binding protein.	Intron-binding proteins in eukaryotic organelles are mainly encoded by the nuclear genome and are thought to promote the maturation of precursor RNAs. Here, we present a biochemical approach that enable the isolation of a novel nuclear-encoded protein from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii showing specific binding properties to organelle group II intron RNA. Using FPLC chromatography of chloroplast protein extracts, a 61-kDa RNA-binding protein was isolated and then tentatively identified by mass spectrometry as the chloroplast heat shock protein Cpn60. Heterologous Cpn60 protein was used in RNA protein gel mobility shift assays and revealed that the ATPase domains of Cpn60 mediates the specific binding of two group II intron RNAs, derived from the homologous chloroplast psaA gene and the heterologous mitochondrial LSU rRNA gene. The function of Cpn60 as a general organelle splicing factor is discussed.
Heterodimerization regulates RNase MRP/RNase P association, localization, and expression of Rpp20 and Rpp25.	Rpp20 and Rpp25 are subunits of the human RNase MRP and RNase P endoribonucleases belonging to the Alba superfamily of nucleic acid binding proteins. These proteins, which bind very strongly to each other, transiently associate with RNase MRP. Here, we show that the Rpp20-Rpp25 heterodimer is resistant to both high concentrations of salt and a nonionic detergent. The interaction of Rpp20 and Rpp25 with the P3 domain of the RNase MRP RNA appeared to be strongly enhanced by their heterodimerization. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that only a single copy of each of these proteins is associated with the RNase MRP and RNase P particles in HEp-2 cells. Both proteins accumulate in the nucleoli, which in case of Rpp20 is strongly dependent on its interaction with Rpp25. Finally, the results of overexpression and knock-down experiments indicate that their expression levels are codependent. Taken together, these data indicate that the Rpp20-Rpp25 heterodimerization regulates their RNA-binding activity, subcellular localization, and expression, which suggests that their interaction is also crucial for their role in RNase MRP/P function.
Functional redundancy among Nanos proteins and a distinct role of Nanos2 during male germ cell development.	The mouse Nanos proteins, Nanos2 and Nanos3, are required for germ cell development and share a highly conserved zinc-finger domain. The expression patterns of these factors during development, however, differ from each other. Nanos3 expression in the mouse embryo commences in the primordial germ cells (PGCs) just after their formation, and a loss of this protein results in the germ cell-less phenotype in both sexes. By contrast, Nanos2 expression begins only in male PGCs after their entry into the genital ridge and a loss of this protein results in a male germ cell deficiency, irrespective of the co-expression of Nanos3 in these cells. These results indicate that these two Nanos proteins have distinct functions, which depend on the time and place of their expression. To further elucidate this, we have generated transgenic mouse lines that express Nanos2 under the control of the Oct4DeltaPE promoter and examined Nanos2 function in a Nanos3-null genetic background. We find that ectopically produced Nanos2 protein rescues the Nanos3-null defects, because the germ cells fully develop in both sexes in the transgenic mice. This result indicates that Nanos2 can substitute for Nanos3 during early PGC development. By contrast, our current data show that Nanos3 does not rescue the defects in Nanos2-null mice. Our present findings thus indicate that there are redundant functions of the Nanos proteins in early PGC development, but that Nanos2 has a distinct function during male germ cell development in the mouse.
Fibre type distribution and gene expression levels of both succinate dehydrogenase and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1alpha of fibres in the soleus muscle of Zucker diabetic fatty rats.	We have reported that a change in muscle fibre type distribution is present in two strains of diabetic rats (Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty and Goto-Kakizaki rats). In this study, we determined whether the change in soleus muscle fibre type distribution was caused by diabetes, using obese, diabetic (Zucker diabetic fatty, ZDF), obese, non-diabetic (Zucker fatty, ZF) and non-diabetic, non-obese rats (Zucker lean, ZL). Moreover, we investigated whether the gene expression levels of metabolic key molecules, namely the transcriptional factors of metabolic genes, exemplified by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1alpha (PGC-1alpha), and the oxidative enzymes in mitochondria, exemplified by succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), were changed in type I and II muscle fibres in each type of rat, using the new technique of laser capture microdissection (LCM). Both plasma glucose and glucosylated haemoglobin levels were significantly higher in ZDF than in ZL and ZF rats. A lower percentage of type IIA fibres was observed in the muscles of ZDF rats than in those of ZL and ZF rats. The mRNA expression levels of SDH in type II fibres and of PGC-1alpha in type I fibres were significantly lower in ZDF than in ZL and ZF rats as assessed by LCM and real-time PCR analysis. We have shown, for the first time, that a lower percentage of type IIA fibres was observed in ZDF rats. We have also discovered that the expression levels of the oxidative metabolism-related genes, PGC-1alpha and SDH, decreased in type I and type II fibres, respectively, of ZDF rats.
A Drosophila melanogaster model of spinal muscular atrophy reveals a function for SMN in striated muscle.	Mutations in human survival motor neurons 1 (SMN1) cause spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) and are associated with defects in assembly of small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs) in vitro. However, the etiological link between snRNPs and SMA is unclear. We have developed a Drosophila melanogaster system to model SMA in vivo. Larval-lethal Smn-null mutations show no detectable snRNP reduction, making it unlikely that these animals die from global snRNP deprivation. Hypomorphic mutations in Smn reduce dSMN protein levels in the adult thorax, causing flightlessness and acute muscular atrophy. Mutant flight muscle motoneurons display pronounced axon routing and arborization defects. Moreover, Smn mutant myofibers fail to form thin filaments and phenocopy null mutations in Act88F, which is the flight muscle-specific actin isoform. In wild-type muscles, dSMN colocalizes with sarcomeric actin and forms a complex with alpha-actinin, the thin filament crosslinker. The sarcomeric localization of Smn is conserved in mouse myofibrils. These observations suggest a muscle-specific function for SMN and underline the importance of this tissue in modulating SMA severity.
Mutant influenza A virus nucleoprotein is preferentially localized in the cytoplasm and its immunization in mice shows higher immunogenicity and cross-reactivity.	Many influenza vaccines targeted to hemagglutinin (HA) show efficient immunogenicity for protecting subjects against influenza virus infection. Major antigenic changes to HA molecules can help influenza virus to develop resistance against HA-targeted vaccines. DNA vaccines encoding conserved antigens protect animals against diverse subtypes, but their potency requires further improvement. We generated a DNA-based nucleoprotein (NP)-targeted vaccine using an N-terminal mutant of NP (NPm) that efficiently localized in the cytoplasm, and examined the immune responses in mice immunized with NPm or wild-type (WT) NP DNA vaccine. Importantly, the NPm vaccine showed 1.5-2-fold higher immunogenicity than the WT NP vaccine in mice. Furthermore, NPm vaccination efficiently protected the mice against lethal challenge with influenza viruses and showed cross-reactivity toward heterologous viruses. Therefore, DNA-based vaccination with NPm may contribute to the development of protective immunity against diverse influenza virus through its ability to stimulate cellular immunity.
A protocol for PAIR: PNA-assisted identification of RNA binding proteins in living cells.	All aspects of RNA metabolism are regulated by RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) that directly associate with the RNA. Some aspects of RNA biology such as RNA abundance can be readily assessed using standard hybridization technologies. However, identification of RBPs that specifically associate with selected RNAs has been more difficult, particularly when attempting to assess this in live cells. The peptide nucleic acid (PNA)-assisted identification of RBPs (PAIR) technology has recently been developed to overcome this issue. The PAIR technology uses a cell membrane-penetrating peptide (CPP) to efficiently deliver into the cell its linked PNA oligomer that complements the target mRNA sequence. The PNA will then anneal to its target mRNA in the living cell, and then covalently couple to the mRNA-RBP complexes subsequent to an ultraviolet (UV) cross-linking step. The resulting PNA-RNA-RBP complex can be isolated using sense oligonucleotide magnetic beads, and the RBPs can then be identified by mass spectrometry (MS). This procedure can usually be completed within 3 d. The use of the PAIR procedure promises to provide insight into the dynamics of RNA processing, transport, degradation and translation in live cells.
Non-invasive, ultra-sensitive, high-throughput assays to quantify rare biomarkers in the blood.	Many diseases are easier to treat and control when detected at an early stage of disease progression. Often, disease-related antigens or biomarkers are shed from the primary site and present in the blood. Unfortunately, there are very few tests capable of detecting these rare biomarkers in the blood. A blood test would be very useful to diagnose the disease earlier, monitor effectiveness of treatments, predict recurrence, and monitor recurrence. There is certainly a need to develop assays that are ultra-sensitive, non-invasive, and high-throughput. Here we describe several highly sensitive immunological assays we have developed to detect rare serum antigens. Initially we created an assay named immuno-detection amplified by T7 RNA polymerase (IDAT). To enhance the effectiveness and streamline the procedure, this assay was amended to the facile amplification system termed fluorescent amplification catalyzed by T7 polymerase technique (FACTT). These assays have been used to analyze the tumor antigen HER2 and the prion protein PrPSc. They can also be applied to other tumor markers or antigens from a variety of diseases such as cardiovascular disease, rheumatoid arthritis, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and hepatitis. These tests are not limited to testing only serum, but may also be applicable to detecting biomarkers in tissue, saliva, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, etc. Clearly, the FACTT-based technology represents an important step in the detection of rare molecules in fluids or tissues for a variety of diseases.
Validation of reference genes for quantitative RT-PCR studies of gene expression in perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.).	Perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.) is an important pasture and turf crop. Biotechniques such as gene expression studies are being employed to improve traits in this temperate grass. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) is among the best methods available for determining changes in gene expression. Before analysis of target gene expression, it is essential to select an appropriate normalisation strategy to control for non-specific variation between samples. Reference genes that have stable expression at different biological and physiological states can be effectively used for normalisation; however, their expression stability must be validated before use.
Intracellular accumulation of cell cycle regulatory proteins and nucleolin re-localization are associated with pre-lethal ultrastructural lesions in circulating T lymphocytes: the HIV-induced cell cycle dysregulation revisited.	The HIV-induced demise of CD4-T cells is thought to be a result of the execution of genetically programmed cell death that occurs in lymphoid tissue, where many resident T cells are chronically hyperactivated. Since HIV-induced alterations of cell cycle control has been often indicated as prominent mechanism of immune hyper activation and cause of apoptotic death, the signal pathway involved in cell cycle dysregulation of T lymphocytes from HIV infected patients was extensively studied. Here, we also demonstrate that circulating T lymphocytes leave lymphoid tissues with diffused regressive lesions (vacuolization, blebbing, nuclear evanescence and organelle swelling). Equally diffused are biochemical anomalies that accompany the overall disarrangement of cell structure, particularly the fragmentation and diffusion into the cytoplasm of C23/nucleolin, the intracellular accumulation of short lived regulatory proteins and the decrease in expression of membrane proteins. All this is something more than a cell cycle-related remodelling of cell morphology and biochemical mechanisms, and rather recalls a necrotic/oncotic cell damage. Since these changes are associated with adaptive mechanisms to hypoxia, we give evidence for alteration of cell cycle control developing in conditions of scarce energy supply.
Efficient detection of RNA-protein interactions using tethered RNAs.	The diverse localization of transcripts in cells suggests that there are many specific RNA-protein interactions that have yet to be identified. Progress has been limited, however, by the lack of a robust method to detect and isolate the RNA-binding proteins. Here we describe the use of an RNA aptamer, scaffolded to a tRNA, to create an affinity matrix that efficiently pulls down transcript-specific RNA-binding proteins from cell lysates. The addition of the tRNA scaffold to a Streptavidin aptamer (tRSA) increased binding efficiency by ∼ 10-fold. The tRSA system with an attached G-quartet sequence also could efficiently and specifically capture endogenous Fragile X Mental Retardation Protein (FMRP), which recognizes this RNA sequence. An alternative method, using biotinylated RNA, captured FMRP less efficiently than did our tRSA method. Finally we demonstrate the identification of novel RNA-binding proteins that interact with intron2 or 3'-UTR of the polarity protein Crumbs3 transcript. Proteins captured by these RNA sequences attached to the tRNA scaffold were identified by mass spectrometry. GFP-tagged versions of these proteins also showed specific interaction with either the Crb3 intron2 or 3'-UTR. Our tRSA technique should find wide application in mapping the RNA-protein interactome.
RNA localization in bacteria.	Bacteria localize proteins and DNA regions to specific subcellular sites, and several recent publications show that RNAs are localized within the cell as well. Localization of tmRNA and some mRNAs indicates that RNAs can be sequestered at specific sites by RNA binding proteins, or can be trapped at the location where they are transcribed. Although the functions of RNA localization are not yet completely understood, it appears that one function of RNA localization is to regulate RNA abundance by controlling access to nucleases. New techniques for visualizing RNAs will likely lead to increased examination of spatial control of RNAs and the role this control plays in the regulation of gene expression and bacterial physiology.
HITS-CLIP: panoramic views of protein-RNA regulation in living cells.	The study of gene regulation in cells has recently begun to shift from a period dominated by the study of transcription factor-DNA interactions to a new focus on RNA regulation. This was sparked by the still-emerging recognition of the central role for RNA in cellular complexity emanating from the RNA World hypothesis, and has been facilitated by technologic advances, in particular high throughput RNA sequencing and crosslinking methods (RNA-Seq, CLIP, and HITS-CLIP). This study will place these advances in context, and, focusing on CLIP, will explain the method, what it can be used for, and how to approach using it. Examples of the successes, limitations, and future of the technique will be discussed.
Identification of musashi-1 and ALDH1 as carcinogenesis, progression, and poor-prognosis related biomarkers for gallbladder adenocarcinoma.	In this study, we investigated the expressions of Msi-1 and ALDH1 in gallbladder adenocarcinoma (n=100), peritumoral tissues (n=46), adenomatous polyp (n=15), and chronic cholecystitis (n=35) using immunohistochemical method. The percentage of cases with positive Msi-1 and ALDH1 expression were significantly higher in gallbladder adenocarcinoma than that in peritumoral tissues, adenomatous polyp and chronic cholecystitis (ps < 0.01). The expression of Msi-1 and ALDH1 was significantly associated with differentiation, tumor mass, lymph node metastasis and invasion of adenocarcinoma. The expression of Msi-1 and ALDH1 was found to be highly consistent in gallbladder adenocarcinoma (p < 0.01). Univariate Kaplan-Meier analysis showed a negative correlation between Msi-1 (p=0.042) or ALDH1 (p< 0.001) expression with overall survival. The average survival time of patients with both low or no Msi-1 expression and ALDH1 expression was significantly longer than patients with the other three subtypes (p< 0.001). Multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that positive expression of Msi-1 or ALDH1 (p=0.016, p=0.006, respectively) was an independent bad-prognostic predictor in gallbladder adenocarcinoma. Our study suggested that Msi-1 and/or ALDH1 expression might be closely related to the carcinogenesis, progression, clinical biological behaviors, and prognosis of gallbladder adenocarcinoma.
IMP3 is a novel biomarker to predict metastasis and prognosis of gastric adenocarcinoma: a retrospective study.	Insulin-like growth factor-II mRNA-binding protein 3 (IMP3) is a newly identified mRNA-binding protein that is involved in embryogenesis and carcinogenesis of some malignant tumors. The aim of this study was to detect the expression of IMP3 protein in gastric adenocarcinoma (GAC) and the correlation with clinicopathological features.
Highly sensitive in vitro methods for detection of residual undifferentiated cells in retinal pigment epithelial cells derived from human iPS cells.	Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) possess the capabilities of self-renewal and differentiation into multiple cell types, and they are free of the ethical problems associated with human embryonic stem cells (hESCs). These characteristics make hiPSCs a promising choice for future regenerative medicine research. There are significant obstacles, however, preventing the clinical use of hiPSCs. One of the most obvious safety issues is the presence of residual undifferentiated cells that have tumorigenic potential. To locate residual undifferentiated cells, in vivo teratoma formation assays have been performed with immunodeficient animals, which is both costly and time-consuming. Here, we examined three in vitro assay methods to detect undifferentiated cells (designated an in vitro tumorigenicity assay): soft agar colony formation assay, flow cytometry assay and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction assay (qRT-PCR). Although the soft agar colony formation assay was unable to detect hiPSCs even in the presence of a ROCK inhibitor that permits survival of dissociated hiPSCs/hESCs, the flow cytometry assay using anti-TRA-1-60 antibody detected 0.1% undifferentiated hiPSCs that were spiked in primary retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells. Moreover, qRT-PCR with a specific probe and primers was found to detect a trace amount of Lin28 mRNA, which is equivalent to that present in a mixture of a single hiPSC and 5.0×10⁴ RPE cells. Our findings provide highly sensitive and quantitative in vitro assays essential for facilitating safety profiling of hiPSC-derived products for future regenerative medicine research.
Analysis of IMP3 expression in prostate adenocarcinomas.	Prostate cancer is the second most common cause of male cancer deaths after lung cancer in developed countries. The prognostic factors currently identified for prostate carcinoma include preoperative serum PSA, TNM staging system, histological grade and surgical margin status and are composed of the clinically most important and useful parameters. However, all the markers studied have not been applied in clinical practice. The oncofetal protein Insulin-Like Growth Factor II has been demonstrated to be associated with aggressive tumor behavior in many organs including urothelial tumors and renal cell carcinoma. Our aim was to investigate the expression status of Insulin-Like Growth Factor II in benign prostate glands, high grade PIN and prostate adenocarcinoma, and to determine the role of Insulin-Like Growth Factor II in pathogenesis of prostate adenocarcinoma.
Combined detection of p16(INK4a) and IMP3 increase the concordance rate between cervical cytologic and histologic diagnosis.	Currently, there are discrepancies in the interpretation between cervical liquid-based cytology (LBC) and histologic diagnoses. The aim of our study was to evaluate the utility of p16(INK4a) (p16) and IMP3 staining of LBC specimens to increase the concordance rate. A total of 98 cell blocks with biopsy results, including 37 low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL), 36 high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL), and 25 squamous cell carcinomas (SCC), were selected for the immunocytochemical analysis of p16 and IMP3. The LBC diagnoses corresponded with histological diagnoses for 59.5% (22/37), 63.9% (23/36), and 88.0% (22/25) of LSIL, HSIL, and SCC lesions, respectively. We found a high frequency of p16 positivity in HSIL (72.2%) and SCC (100%), but not LSIL (29.7%). IMP3 was frequently expressed in SCC (84.0%), but rarely in LSIL (8.1%) and HSIL (25.0%). Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 1 (CIN1) was negative for both p16 and IMP3, CIN2/3 tended to be positive for p16 and negative for IMP3, and SCC was positive for both p16 and IMP3. The combination of p16 and IMP3 immunostaining had a higher sensitivity and specificity for detecting CIN1 and CIN2/3 than cytology. For detecting SCC, p16/IMP3 had a higher sensitivity than cytology, but a lower specificity. IMP3 is a useful diagnostic immunomarker that can be used to identify SCC and the combination of p16/IMP3 expression was found to improve the discrepant results between cytologic and histologic diagnoses. 
The Lin28/let-7a/c-Myc pathway plays a role in non-muscle invasive bladder cancer.	We investigate the role of the Lin28/let-7a/c-Myc pathway in non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC). Using RT-PCR, western blot and immunohistochemistry techniques, the levels of pre-let-7a, let-7a, Lin28 and c-Myc RNA and/or proteins were determined in samples of normal bladder tissue and bladder cancer. Expression of pre-let-7a was found to be negatively correlated with the pathological grade of bladder cancer, while let-7a showed a positive correlation with bladder cancer pathological grade. Expression of Lin28 RNA and protein was not significantly different between normal bladder tissue and low-grade transitional cell carcinoma of bladder (TCC) but the expression levels in high-grade TCC were remarkably increased. Expression of c-Myc RNA and protein was significantly higher in bladder cancer samples in comparison to normal bladder tissue without correlation with cancer differentiation. Expression of all the above RNAs and proteins showed no significant difference in Ta and T1 stages. The Lin28/let-7a/c-Myc pathway plays an important role in NMIBC. In particular, expression levels of let-7a correlate with the degree of cancer differentiation but not cancer stage. 
Are differences between patient and provider explanatory models of diabetes associated with patient self-management and glycemic control?	In this study we test whether differences between patient and provider explanatory models of diabetes affect self-management and glucose control in type 2 diabetes patients. Diabetic patients (n=60) and family practice physicians (n=39) in Guadalajara, Mexico, responded to a structured explanatory model interview (130 questions on causes, symptoms, and treatments). A cultural consensus analysis indicated a widely shared model among physicians and provided a single shared set of answers to the questions. Patient-provider congruence in beliefs was assessed by comparing each patient's responses with the physician answer set. Congruence in beliefs predicted self-management behaviors (r=0.27, p=.03), more than educational level (r=0.16, p=.23), but was not predictive of A1C (r=0.12, p=.40). Differences between patient and physician explanatory models can adversely affect patient-directed activities and may indirectly affect glycemic control by affecting self-management. These differences may be due to low patient educational level and resulting problems in understanding biomedical approaches to diabetes. 
Subcellular fractionation and localization studies reveal a direct interaction of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) with nucleolin.	Fragile X mental Retardation Protein (FMRP) is a well-known regulator of local translation of its mRNA targets in neurons. However, despite its ubiquitous expression, the role of FMRP remains ill-defined in other cell types. In this study we investigated the subcellular distribution of FMRP and its protein complexes in HeLa cells using confocal imaging as well as detergent-free fractionation and size exclusion protocols. We found FMRP localized exclusively to solid compartments, including cytosolic heavy and light membranes, mitochondria, nuclear membrane and nucleoli. Interestingly, FMRP was associated with nucleolin in both a high molecular weight ribosomal and translation-associated complex (≥6 MDa) in the cytosol, and a low molecular weight complex (∼200 kDa) in the nucleoli. Consistently, we identified two functional nucleolar localization signals (NoLSs) in FMRP that are responsible for a strong nucleolar colocalization of the C-terminus of FMRP with nucleolin, and a direct interaction of the N-terminus of FMRP with the arginine-glycine-glycine (RGG) domain of nucleolin. Taken together, we propose a novel mechanism by which a transient nucleolar localization of FMRP underlies a strong nucleocytoplasmic translocation, most likely in a complex with nucleolin and possibly ribosomes, in order to regulate translation of its target mRNAs. 
Members of a family of proteins (the RD family) detected by a U1 70K monoclonal antibody are present in spliceosomal complexes.	We have characterized a monoclonal antibody (mAb) to the U1 snRNP component U1 70K. We find that this antibody recognizes several proteins, in addition to U1 70K, in purified spliceosomal complexes and in total HeLa cell nuclear extract preparations. The novel mAb U1 70K antigens can also be specifically immunoprecipitated by the antibody. Similarly to U1 70K, many of the mAb U1 70K antigens can be phosphorylated by a co-purifying kinase activity. The epitope recognized by mAb U1 70K was previously shown to be a repeating arginine/aspartate (RD) dipeptide. Thus we have designated the novel mAb U1 70K antigens the RD family. Comparison of mAb U1 70K with a recently characterized antibody, mAb 16H3, whose epitope is a repeating R/D or R/E motif, showed that a large subset of the antigens are common. In contrast, most of the mAb U1 70K antigens are distinct from the proteins detected by mAb 104, an antibody to the SR family of splicing factors.
The generally expressed hnRNP F is involved in a neural-specific pre-mRNA splicing event.	The proteins and RNA regulatory elements that control tissue-specific pre-mRNA splicing in mammalian cells are mostly unknown. In this study, a set of proteins is identified that binds to a splicing regulatory element downstream of the neuron specific c-src N1 exon. This complex of proteins bound specifically to a short RNA containing the regulatory sequence in neuronal extracts that splice the N1 exon. It was not seen in non-neuronal cell extracts that fail to splice this exon. UV-cross-linking experiments identified a neuron-specific 75-kD protein and several nontissue-specific proteins, including the 53-kD heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein F (hnRNP F), as components of this complex. Although present in both extracts, hnRNP F binds tightly to the RNA only in the neuronal extracts. A mutation in the regulatory RNA sequence, that inhibits N1 splicing in vivo, abolished formation of the neuron-specific complex and the binding of the neuron-specific 75-kD protein. Competition experiments in the two extracts show that the binding of the neuronal protein complex to the src pre-mRNA is required to activate N1 exon splicing in vitro. Antibody inhibition experiments indicate that the hnRNP F protein is a functional part of this complex. The assembly of regulatory complexes from both constitutive and specific proteins is likely to be a general feature of tissue-specific splicing regulation.
Nucleic-acid-binding properties of hnRNP-U/SAF-A, a nuclear-matrix protein which binds DNA and RNA in vivo and in vitro.	We show that SAF-A, a nuclear protein which specifically binds vertebrate scaffold-attachment-region (SAR) elements with high affinity is identical with hnRNP-U, assumed to be involved in packaging of hnRNA in ribonucleoprotein particles. Ultraviolet cross-linking experiments show that the protein, referred to as hnRNP-U/SAF-A, is bound to chromosomal DNA in vivo. In vitro, the isolated protein binds to double-stranded and single-stranded DNA and forms higher ordered nucleic-acid-protein complexes. Filter-binding experiments performed with different types of natural and synthetic nucleic acids as substrates show that the protein binds DNA and RNA with different affinities and most likely at different binding sites. We conclude that hnRNP-U/SAF-A thus may have functions in the organisation of chromosomal DNA in addition to its suggested role in hnRNA metabolism.
Expression of TIA-1 and TIA-2 in T cell malignancies and T cell lymphocytosis.	To investigate the reactivity with TIA-1 and TIA-2, two monoclonal antibodies that recognise, respectively, granular structures in T lymphocytes and the T cell receptor chain in cells from a variety of T cell disorders.
Identification, nuclear localization, and binding activities of OZF, a human protein solely composed of zinc-finger motifs.	The OZF cDNA was identified in a human mammary cell line and encodes a polypeptide solely composed of ten zinc-finger motifs which belongs to the Kruppel family of zinc-finger proteins. The OZF protein produced in Escherichia coli binds zinc ions, DNA and heparin. These binding activities are characteristic of zinc-finger proteins. Immunochemical analysis using antibodies produced against the recombinant protein detected its expression in human mammary epithelial cells but not in stroma cells, which is consistent with the pattern of expression observed at the RNA level in cell cultures. Western blot analysis demonstrated the expression of a 33-kDa nuclear protein similar in size to the predicted protein and therefore excluded the presence of an additional trans-acting domain. These data establish the unique structure of the OZF protein which is distinct from previously identified zinc-finger proteins. In addition, OZF protein overexpression was found in a tumor cell line, which suggests a possible involvement in carcinogenesis.
Targeting of gliadin peptides, CD8, alpha/beta-TCR, and gamma/delta-TCR to Golgi complexes and vacuoles within celiac disease enterocytes.	Celiac disease (CD) is characterized by autodestruction of enterocytes after exposure of genetically susceptible individuals to dietary gluten. To define the transport pathways of proteins involved in the celiac immune response, we wished to determine the subcellular compartments of the intestinal mucosa where wheat gliadin peptides colocalize with receptors of T lymphocytes, including alpha/beta-TCR, gamma/delta-TCR, and CD8. Semithin and ultrathin frozen section of jejunal biopsies from CD patients and controls were used to perform immunofluorescence and immunogold labeling as well as in situ hybridization experiments. In patients with active CD, we detected gliadin peptides in vacuoles and Golgi complexes of enterocytes. CD8, alpha/beta-TCR, and gamma/delta-TCR were found in vacuoles and Golgi complexes within these gliadin-containing enterocytes in addition to the surface of intraepithelial and mucosal T lymphocytes. In contrast, we observed that the localization of CD4, CD3, T cell-restricted intracellular antigen (TIA), and leukocyte common antigen (LCA) was restricted to lymphocytes in CD patients. We further detected labeling signals for gliadin peptides, CD8, alpha/beta-TCR, and gamma/delta-TCR at the basal membrane of enterocytes that were interdigitated by extensions of lymphocytes. In situ hybridization experiments revealed that CD8 and gamma/delta-TCR were not expressed by CD enterocytes. We conclude that CD8, alpha/beta-TCR, and gamma/delta-TCR are targeted to Golgi complexes and vacuoles of small intestinal enterocytes in active CD. The observed process may be involved in the pathogenesis of CD enterocytes. We propose a mechanism for the uptake of CD8, alpha/beta-TCR, and gamma/delta-TCR by the basolateral membrane of small intestinal enterocytes.
QKI expression is regulated during neuron-glial cell fate decisions.	QKI proteins are expressed by differentiated glia and have been implicated as regulators of myelination, but are also thought to function during early neural development. This study shows that QKI proteins are expressed in neural progenitors of the ventricular zone (vz) during murine CNS development, but that their expression is down-regulated during neuronal differentiation. By contrast, neural progenitors located in specific subdomains of the vz maintain expression of QKI proteins as they differentiate and migrate away into the emerging nervous system. These QKI+ cells have characteristics consistent with the acquisition of a glial rather than neuronal fate; they express nestin, incorporate BrdU, fail to express neuronal markers, and similar QKI+ cells are found in the postnatal subventricular zone, a known area of gliogenesis. In vitro, neural progenitor cells also down-regulate QKI expression as they differentiate into neurons, but not if they differentiate into glia. Furthermore, neural progenitors in strictly delineated subdomains of the vz dramatically up-regulate expression of the QKI-5 isoform prior to the emergence of QKI+ cells from these regions. Taken together, these data indicate that (1) glia are generated from subsets of neural progenitors found in specific, identifiable subdomains of the vz (2) QKI expression is regulated as neural progenitors undergo the neuron-glial cell fate decision and (3) QKI expression is a characteristic of glial progenitors.
