Combined biochemical and electron microscopic analyses reveal the architecture of the mammalian U2 snRNP.	The 17S U2 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (snRNP) represents the active form of U2 snRNP that binds to the pre-mRNA during spliceosome assembly. This particle forms by sequential interactions of splicing factors SF3b and SF3a with the 12S U2 snRNP. We have purified SF3b and the 15S U2 snRNP, an intermediate in the assembly pathway, from HeLa cell nuclear extracts and show that SF3b consists of four subunits of 49, 130, 145, and 155 kD. Biochemical analysis indicates that both SF3b and the 12S U2 snRNP are required for the incorporation of SF3a into the 17S U2 snRNP. Nuclease protection studies demonstrate interactions of SF3b with the 5' half of U2 small nuclear RNA, whereas SF3a associates with the 3' portion of the U2 snRNP and possibly also interacts with SF3b. Electron microscopy of the 15S U2 snRNP shows that it consists of two domains in which the characteristic features of isolated SF3b and the 12S U2 snRNP are conserved. Comparison to the two-domain structure of the 17S U2 snRNP corroborates the biochemical results in that binding of SF3a contributes to an increase in size of the 12S U2 domain and possibly induces a structural change in the SF3b domain.
Meaningful refinement of polyalanine models using rigid-body simulated annealing: application to the structure determination of the A31P Rop mutant.	Conventional refinement methods, when applied to even correctly positioned polyalanine models of a target structure, result in a systematic distortion of the molecular geometry and to a concomitant increase in the mean phase difference from the correct phase set. Here, it is shown that iterative rigid-body simulated-annealing refinement of polyalanine models employing successively fewer residues per rigid body (down to one alanine residue per body) at a very high initial temperature (of the order of T0 = 10000 K) and with the geometric energy terms switched on, not only preserves the geometry of the model but can also converge to an essentially correct polyalanine trace of the target structure, even when the starting model deviates systematically and significantly from the sought structure. As an example of the application of the method, details are presented of the structure determination of the Ala31Pro mutant of the Rop protein, where an initial roughly positioned polyalanine model (giving an average phase difference of 78.2 degrees from the final phase set) was successfully refined against a 1.8 A resolution native data set, leading to an essentially correct model of the main chain with an average displacement of its atomic positions from the final model of 0.275 A. The phases calculated from this refined polyalanine model had an average difference of 43.8 degrees from the final phase set (corresponding to a mean figure of merit of 0.72) and gave a readily interpretable electron-density map.
hnRNP complexes: composition, structure, and function.	Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs) are predominantly nuclear RNA-binding proteins that form complexes with RNA polymerase II transcripts. These proteins function in a staggering array of cellular activities, ranging from transcription and pre-mRNA processing in the nucleus to cytoplasmic mRNA translation and turnover. Recent studies suggest that several fundamental characteristics of hnRNPs account for their involvement in multiple regulatory pathways.
Novel RNA-binding motif: the KH module.	The KH motif has recently been identified in single or multiple copies in a number of RNA associated proteins. Here we review the current knowledge accumulated about the sequence, structure, and functions of the KH. The multidomain architecture of most of the KH-containing proteins inspired an approach based on the production of peptides spanning the sequence of an isolated KH motif. Correct identification of the minimal length necessary for producing a folded peptide has had a number of important consequences for interpreting functional data. The presence of the KH motifs in fmr1, the protein responsible for the fragile X syndrome, and their possible role in the fmr1 functions are also discussed.
RNA-protein complexes.	RNA-binding proteins are an extremely diverse group of proteins, reflecting the diverse functional requirements of cellular RNAs. Whereas the number of structures of RNA-binding proteins or modules is increasing at a reasonable rate, that of protein-RNA complexes increments by only a few each year. The recently determined structure of a complex from the U2 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle shows the subtleties of RNA stem-loop recognition by ribonucleoprotein modules. A second structure provides the first direct information on double-stranded RNA recognition by the double-stranded RNA-binding module that occurs in a variety of functionally distinct proteins. Another two new complexes concern proteins interacting with tRNA. The first is methionyl-tRNAf(Met) transformylase, which has to compete with elongation factor Tu for charged initiator tRNAMet and does so by recognising specific features of the acceptor stem of tRNAf(Met). The second is prolyl-tRNA synthetase, complexed with its cognate tRNA, that has to specifically recognise the two guanines common to all tRNA anticodons specific for proline.
DRBP76, a double-stranded RNA-binding nuclear protein, is phosphorylated by the interferon-induced protein kinase, PKR.	The interferon-induced double-stranded RNA-activated protein kinase PKR is the prototype of a class of double-stranded (dsRNA)-binding proteins (DRBPs) which share a dsRNA-binding motif conserved from Drosophila to humans. Here we report the purification of DRBP76, a new human member of this class of proteins. Sequence from the amino terminus of DRBP76 matched that of the M phase-specific protein, MPP4. DRBP76 was also cloned by the yeast two-hybrid screening of a cDNA library using a mutant PKR as bait. Analysis of the cDNA sequence revealed that it is the full-length version of MPP4, has a bipartite nuclear localization signal, two motifs that can mediate interactions with both dsRNA and PKR, five epitopes for potential M phase-specific phosphorylation, two potential sites for phosphorylation by cyclin-dependent kinases, a RG2 motif present in many RNA-binding proteins and predicts a protein of 76 kDa. DsRNA and PKR interactions of DRBP76 were confirmed by analysis of in vitro translated and purified native proteins. Cellular expression of an epitope-tagged DRBP76 demonstrated its nuclear localization, and its co-immunoprecipitation with PKR demonstrated that the two proteins interact in vivo. Finally, purified DRBP76 was shown to be a substrate of PKR in vitro, indicating that this protein's cellular activities may be regulated by PKR-mediated phosphorylation.
Neuronal expression of a Caenorhabditis elegans elav-like gene and the effect of its ectopic expression.	We examined the expression of a Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) elav-like gene, which we designated elr-1. The elr-1 gene encodes a predicted 456-amino-acid protein containing three putative RNA-binding domains and belongs to the ELAV family, which is functionally involved in neuronal differentiation. Northern blot analysis suggested that the levels of elr-1 mRNA are regulated developmentally. A elr-1::gfp reporter gene under the control of the elr-1 promoter was expressed specifically in the ring ganglia near the nerve ring, the ventral nerve cord (VNC), and the pre-anal and lumbar ganglia. In the VNC, GFP-positive cells were shown to be acetylcholine-producing motor neurons which increased in number as development proceeded, suggesting that elr-1 is expressed in mature neurons. Ectopic expression of ELR-1 protein at the L4 larval and adult stages, but not earlier stages, caused irreversible death, accompanied by uncoordinated movement (Unc), clear (Clr), and egg-laying defective (Egl) phenotypes, which are often observed in mutants with neuronal defects. These results suggest that ELR-1 may have important functions in specific mature neurons in C. elegans.
Protein plasticity to the extreme: changing the topology of a 4-alpha-helical bundle with a single amino acid substitution.	Conventional wisdom has it that two proteins sharing 98.4% sequence identity have nearly identical three-dimensional structures. Here we provide a counter-example to this statement by showing that a single amino acid substitution can change the topology of a homodimeric 4-alpha-helical bundle protein.
hnRNP A/B proteins are required for inhibition of HIV-1 pre-mRNA splicing.	Splicing of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) pre-mRNA must be inefficient to provide a pool of unspliced messages which encode viral proteins and serve as genomes for new virions. Negative cis-regulatory elements (exonic splicing silencers or ESSs) are necessary for HIV-1 splicing inhibition. We demonstrate that heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs) of the A and B group are trans-acting factors required for the function of the tat exon 2 ESS. Depletion of hnRNP A/B proteins from HeLa cell nuclear extract activates splicing of tat exon 2 pre-mRNA substrate. Splicing inhibition is restored by addition of recombinant hnRNP A/B proteins to the depleted extract. A high-affinity hnRNP A1-binding sequence can substitute functionally for the ESS in tat exon 2. These results demonstrate that hnRNP A/B proteins are required for repression of HIV-1 splicing.
Repressor binding to a dorsal regulatory site traps human eIF4E in a high cap-affinity state.	Eukaryotic translation initiation involves recognition of the 5' end of cellular mRNA by the cap-binding complex known as eukaryotic initiation factor 4F (eIF4F). Initiation is a key point of regulation in gene expression in response to mechanisms mediated by signal transduction pathways. We have investigated the molecular interactions underlying inhibition of human eIF4E function by regulatable repressors called 4E-binding proteins (4E-BPs). Two essential components of eIF4F are the cap-binding protein eIF4E, and eIF4G, a multi-functional protein that binds both eIF4E and other essential eIFs. We show that the 4E-BPs 1 and 2 block the interaction between eIF4G and eIF4E by competing for binding to a dorsal site on eIF4E. Remarkably, binding of the 4E-BPs at this dorsal site enhances cap-binding via the ventral cap-binding slot, thus trapping eIF4E in inactive complexes with high affinity for capped mRNA. The binding contacts and affinities for the interactions between 4E-BP1/2 and eIF4E are distinct (estimated K(d) values of 10(-8) and 3x10(-9) for 4E-BP1 and 2, respectively), and the differences in these properties are determined by three amino acids within an otherwise conserved motif. These data provide a quantitative framework for a new molecular model of translational regulation.
Crystal structure of ERA: a GTPase-dependent cell cycle regulator containing an RNA binding motif.	ERA forms a unique family of GTPase. It is widely conserved and essential in bacteria. ERA functions in cell cycle control by coupling cell division with growth rate. ERA homologues also are found in eukaryotes. Here we report the crystal structure of ERA from Escherichia coli. The structure has been determined at 2.4-A resolution. It reveals a two-domain arrangement of the molecule: an N-terminal domain that resembles p21 Ras and a C-terminal domain that is unique. Structure-based topological search of the C domain fails to reveal any meaningful match, although sequence analysis suggests that it contains a KH domain. KH domains are RNA binding motifs that usually occur in tandem repeats and exhibit low sequence similarity except for the well-conserved segment VIGxxGxxIK. We have identified a betaalphaalphabeta fold that contains the VIGxxGxxIK sequence and is shared by the C domain of ERA and the KH domain. We propose that this betaalphaalphabeta fold is the RNA binding motif, the minimum structural requirement for RNA binding. ERA dimerizes in crystal. The dimer formation involves a significantly distorted switch II region, which may shed light on how ERA protein regulates downstream events.
Self-association of Puralpha is mediated by RNA.	The 322 amino acid cellular protein, Puralpha, is a sequence-specific single-stranded DNA-binding protein implicated in control of transcription and replication. Previous studies have demonstrated that the interaction between Puralpha and its target DNA sequence results in the formation of multimeric complexes. In this study, we demonstrate that Puralpha can self-associate in the absence of DNA. This self-association, while independent of DNA, is mediated by RNA. Through in vitro studies with bacterially expressed glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins, and the synthetic peptides corresponding to various central regions of Puralpha, the domain which is important for the self-association of Puralpha is localized to acidic leucine-rich repeats. Interestingly, these repeats have previously been shown to interact with the human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) Tat protein and in this study we demonstrate that Tat is able to disrupt the self- association of Puralpha. We have recently cloned a Puralpha associated-RNA, PU-RNA, and here we show that PU-RNA can specifically reconstitute the self-association of Puralpha. RNA not only mediates the self-association of Puralpha, but also modulates the ability of Puralpha to interact with its target DNA sequence. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays performed with and without RNase treatment demonstrate that RNA inhibits the interaction between Puralpha and its target DNA sequence. Moreover, we demonstrate that the self-association of Puralpha can be reconstituted by a specific oligonucleotide encompassing the Puralpha binding site. The implications of these findings with respect to Puralpha's role in transcription and replication are discussed.
Isolation and characterization of a folate receptor mRNA-binding trans-factor from human placenta. Evidence favoring identity with heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein E1.	The interaction of an 18-base cis-element in the 5'-untranslated region of human folate receptor (FR)-alpha mRNA with a cytosolic trans-factor protein is critical for the translation of FR (Sun, X.-L., and Antony, A. C. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 25539-25547). This trans-factor was isolated to apparent homogeneity as a 43- and 38-kDa doublet from human placenta using poly(U)-Sepharose, followed by preparative sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and electro-elution as major purification steps. Amino acid microsequencing of two cyanogen bromide-generated peptide fragments of the 43-kDa trans-factor revealed complete identity with 43-kDa heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein E1 (hnRNP E1). Purified specific rabbit anti-hnRNP E1 peptide antibodies (generated against a synthetic oligopeptide that was not represented in microsequenced peptides of the trans-factor) also recognized the purified trans-factor on Western blots. Conversely, the 18-base FR RNA cis-element also bound hnRNP E1 protein on Northwestern blots. Moreover, a 19-base RNA cis-element in the 3'-untranslated region of 15-lipoxygenase mRNA that is known to bind hnRNP E1 also interacted with placental 43-kDa trans-factor. In addition, several murine tissues containing a hnRNP E1-related protein (also known as alphaCP-1) readily interacted with the 18-base FR RNA cis-element. Finally, anti-hnRNP E1 antibodies specifically inhibited translation of FR in vitro in a dose-dependent manner, and the antibody effect could be reversed in a dose-dependent manner by either purified trans-factor or hnRNP E1. Collectively, the data favor identity of the FR mRNA-binding trans-factor and hnRNP E1, confirm its critical role in the translation of FR, and highlight yet another role of multifunctional hnRNP E1 in eukaryotic mRNA regulation.
Homeostasis in mRNA initiation: wheat germ poly(A)-binding protein lowers the activation energy barrier to initiation complex formation.	Previous kinetic binding studies of wheat germ protein synthesis eukaryotic initiation factor iso4F (eIFiso4F) and its subunit, eIF4E, with m(7)GTP and mRNA analogues indicated that binding occurred by a two-step process with the first step being too fast to measure by stopped-flow techniques (). Further equilibrium studies showed that poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) enhanced the cap binding of eIFiso4F about 40-fold. The kinetic effects of PABP on cap binding and the temperature dependence of this reaction were measured and compared. Fluorescence stopped-flow studies of the PABP.eIFiso4F protein complex with cap show a concentration-independent conformational change. PABP did not significantly increase the rate of the conformational change, and because the initial second-order binding is essentially diffusion-controlled, the enhancement of cap affinity must reside in the dissociation rate. The dissociation rate was more than 5-fold slower in the presence of PABP. The temperature dependence of the cap binding reaction was markedly reduced in the presence of PABP. The reduced energy barrier for formation of a cap.eIFiso4F complex suggests a more stable platform for further initiation complex formation and a possible means of adapting to varying temperature conditions.
KIN241: a gene involved in cell morphogenesis in Paramecium tetraurelia reveals a novel protein family of cyclophilin-RNA interacting proteins (CRIPs) conserved from fission yeast to man.	In this study, we report cloning, by functional complementation of the KIN241 gene involved in Paramecium cell morphogenesis, cortical organization and nuclear reorganization. This gene is predicted to encode a protein of a novel type, comprising a cyclophilin-type, peptidyl-prolyl isomerase domain, an RNA recognition motif, followed by a region rich in glutamate and lysine (EK domain) and a C-terminal string of serines. As homologues of this protein are present in the genomes of Schizosaccharomyces pombe, Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, Arabidopsis thaliana and Homo sapiens, the Kin241p predicted sequence defines a new family of proteins that we propose to call 'CRIP', for cyclophilin-RNA interacting protein. We demonstrate that, in Paramecium, Kin241p is localized in the nucleus and that deletion of some nuclear localization signals (NLSs) decreases transport of the protein into the nucleus. No Kin241-1 protein is present in mutant cells, suggesting that the C-terminal serine-rich region is responsible for protein stability.
Eukaryotic elongation factor 2 can bind to the synthetic oligoribonucleotide that mimics sarcin/ricin domain of rat 28S ribosomal RNA.	Eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF2) catalyzes the translocation of peptidyl-tRNA from the A site to P site by binding to the ribosome. In this work, the complex formation of rat liver eEF2 with a synthetic oligoribonucleotide (SRD RNA) that mimics sarcin/ricin domain of rat 28S ribosomal RNA is invested in vitro. Purified eEF2 can specifically bind SRD RNA to form a stable complex. tRNA competes with SRD RNA in binding to eEF2 in a less extent. Pretreatment of eEF2 with GDP or ADP-ribosylation of eEF2 by diphtheria toxin can obviously reduce the ability of eEF2 to form the complex with the synthetic oligoribonucleotide. These results indicate that eEF2 is likely to bind directly to the sarcin/ricin domain of 28S ribosomal RNA in the process of protein synthesis.
Crystal structures of restrictocin-inhibitor complexes with implications for RNA recognition and base flipping.	The cytotoxin sarcin disrupts elongation factor binding and protein synthesis by specifically cleaving one phosphodiester bond in ribosomes. To elucidate the molecular basis of toxin action, we determined three cocrystal structures of the sarcin homolog restrictocin bound to different analogs that mimic the target sarcin/ricin loop (SRL) structure of the rat 28S rRNA. In these structures, restrictocin contacts the bulged-G motif and an unfolded form of the tetraloop of the SRL RNA. In one structure, toxin loops guide selection of the target site by contacting the base critical for recognition (G4319) and the surrounding S-shaped backbone. In another structure, base flipping of the tetraloop enables cleavage by placing the target nucleotide in the active site with the nucleophile nearly inline for attack on the scissile bond. These structures provide the first views of how a site-specific protein endonuclease recognizes and cleaves a folded RNA substrate.
Altering the GTP binding site of the DNA/RNA-binding protein, Translin/TB-RBP, decreases RNA binding and may create a dominant negative phenotype.	The DNA/RNA-binding protein, Translin/Testis Brain RNA-binding protein (Translin/TB-RBP), contains a putative GTP binding site in its C-terminus which is highly conserved. To determine if guanine nucleotide binding to this site functionally alters nucleic acid binding, electrophoretic mobility shift assays were performed with RNA and DNA binding probes. GTP, but not GDP, reduces RNA binding by approximately 50% and the poorly hydrolyzed GTP analog, GTPgammaS, reduces binding by >90% in gel shift and immunoprecipitation assays. No similar reduction of DNA binding is seen. When the putative GTP binding site of TB-RBP, amino acid sequence VTAGD, is altered to VTNSD by site directed mutagenesis, GTP will no longer bind to TB-RBP(GTP) and TB-RBP(GTP) no longer binds to RNA, although DNA binding is not affected. Yeast two-hybrid assays reveal that like wild-type TB-RBP, TB-RBP(GTP) will interact with itself, with wild-type TB-RBP and with Translin associated factor X (Trax). Transfection of TB-RBP(GTP) into NIH 3T3 cells leads to a marked increase in cell death suggesting a dominant negative function for TB-RBP(GTP) in cells. These data suggest TB-RBP is an RNA-binding protein whose activity is allosterically controlled by nucleotide binding.
Structural basis for recognition of the intron branch site RNA by splicing factor 1.	During spliceosome assembly, splicing factor 1 (SF1) specifically recognizes the intron branch point sequence (BPS) UACUAAC in the pre-mRNA transcripts. We show that the KH-QUA2 region of SF1 defines an enlarged KH (hn RNP K) fold which is necessary and sufficient for BPS binding. The 3' part of the BPS (UAAC), including the conserved branch point adenosine (underlined), is specifically recognized in a hydrophobic cleft formed by the Gly-Pro-Arg-Gly motif and the variable loop of the KH domain. The QUA2 region recognizes the 5' nucleotides of the BPS (ACU). The branch point adenosine acting as the nucleophile in the first biochemical step of splicing is deeply buried. BPS RNA recognition suggests how SF1 may facilitate subsequent formation of the prespliceosomal complex A.
Molecular cloning and characterization of human PTB-like protein: a possible retinal autoantigen of cancer-associated retinopathy.	Human homologue of polypyrimidine tract binding protein (PTB), a possible autoantigen for cancer-associated retinopathy (CAR), was isolated from a human retinal cDNA library. This homologue, named PTB-like protein (PTBLP), encodes a 532 amino acid residue and has a 75% homology to the human PTB. The human PTBLP had four RNA recognition motifs (RRMs) and had a RNA binding ability. There are four splicing variants in PTBLP. The CAR serum recognized the full length form of PTBLP and the antigenic determinant was localized within 12 amino acids of the C-terminal region. The sequence was included in the fourth RRM sequence.
Mpe1, a zinc knuckle protein, is an essential component of yeast cleavage and polyadenylation factor required for the cleavage and polyadenylation of mRNA.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, in vitro mRNA cleavage and polyadenylation require the poly(A) binding protein, Pab1p, and two multiprotein complexes: CFI (cleavage factor I) and CPF (cleavage and polyadenylation factor). We characterized a novel essential gene, MPE1 (YKL059c), which interacts genetically with the PCF11 gene encoding a subunit of CFI. Mpe1p is an evolutionarily conserved protein, a homolog of which is encoded by the human genome. The protein sequence contains a putative RNA-binding zinc knuckle motif. MPE1 is implicated in the choice of ACT1 mRNA polyadenylation site in vivo. Extracts from a conditional mutant, mpe1-1, or from a wild-type extract immunoneutralized for Mpe1p are defective in 3'-end processing. We used the tandem affinity purification (TAP) method on strains TAP-tagged for Mpe1p or Pfs2p to show that Mpe1p, like Pfs2p, is an integral subunit of CPF. Nevertheless a stable CPF, devoid of Mpe1p, was purified from the mpe1-1 mutant strain, showing that Mpe1p is not directly involved in the stability of this complex. Consistently, Mpe1p is also not necessary for the processive polyadenylation, nonspecific for the genuine pre-mRNA 3' end, displayed by the CPF alone. However, a reconstituted assay with purified CFI, CPF, and the recombinant Pab1p showed that Mpe1p is strictly required for the specific cleavage and polyadenylation of pre-mRNA. These results show that Mpe1p plays a crucial role in 3' end formation probably by promoting the specific link between the CFI/CPF complex and pre-mRNA.
Fanconi anemia protein complex: mapping protein interactions in the yeast 2- and 3-hybrid systems.	Fanconi anemia (FA) is an autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by progressive bone marrow failure and cancer predisposition. Eight FA complementation groups have been identified. The FANCA, FANCC, FANCE, FANCF, and FANCG proteins form a nuclear complex required for the monoubiquination of the FANCD2 protein. To investigate the architecture of the FA protein complex, the yeast 2-hybrid system was used to map contact points of the FANCA/FANCG, FANCC/FANCE, and FANCF/FANCG interactions. FANCG was shown to interact with both the amino-terminus of FANCA and the carboxyl-terminal region of FANCF. A FANCG mutant truncated at the carboxyl-terminus retained the ability to interact with FANCA. The interaction between FANCG and FANCF was ablated by a Leu71Pro mutant of FANCG. A central region of FANCE was sufficient for FANCC binding. A Leu554Pro mutant of FANCC failed to interact with FANCE. To further examine complex assembly, the yeast 3-hybrid system was used to investigate the ability of FANCG to act as a molecular bridge in mediating interaction between other FA proteins. FANCG was able to mediate interaction between FANCA and FANCF, as well as between monomers of FANCA. Direct interaction between FANCE and FANCD2 was also demonstrated in the yeast 2-hybrid system. This interaction involving an amino-terminal region of FANCD2 may provide a link between the FA protein complex and its downstream targets.
The structure of the zinc finger domain from human splicing factor ZNF265 fold.	Identification of the protein domains that are responsible for RNA recognition has lagged behind the characterization of protein-DNA interactions. However, it is now becoming clear that a range of structural motifs bind to RNA and their structures and molecular mechanisms of action are beginning to be elucidated. In this report, we have expressed and purified one of the two putative RNA-binding domains from ZNF265, a protein that has been shown to bind to the spliceosomal components U1-70K and U2AF35 and to direct alternative splicing. We show that this domain, which contains four highly conserved cysteine residues, forms a stable, monomeric structure upon the addition of 1 molar eq of Zn(II). Determination of the solution structure of this domain reveals a conformation comprising two stacked beta-hairpins oriented at approximately 80 degrees to each other and sandwiching the zinc ion; the fold resembles the zinc ribbon class of zinc-binding domains, although with one less beta-strand than most members of the class. Analysis of the structure reveals a striking resemblance to known RNA-binding motifs in terms of the distribution of key surface residues responsible for making RNA contacts, despite a complete lack of structural homology. Furthermore, we have used an RNA gel shift assay to demonstrate that a single crossed finger domain from ZNF265 is capable of binding to an RNA message. Taken together, these results define a new RNA-binding motif and should provide insight into the functions of the >100 uncharacterized proteins in the sequence data bases that contain this domain.
C114 is a novel IL-11-inducible nuclear double-stranded RNA-binding protein that inhibits protein kinase R.	We have identified a cDNA (named C114) that encodes novel transcripts induced by IL-11 in mouse 3T3 L1 cells. Northern analysis of RNAs from multiple mouse tissues detects two C114 transcripts of approximately 1.0 and approximately 2.0 kb with the highest expression in liver, testis, brain, and kidney. The C114 cDNA contains an open reading frame of 187 amino acids with a predicted mass of 21 kDa. Three putative nuclear localization signals are predicted at amino acids 83-88, 126-131, and 167-178. Using green fluorescent protein (GFP)-C114 fusion plasmids, amino acids 126-131 are shown to be essential for the nuclear localization of C114. An arginine-rich region (amino acids 98-143) spanning the nuclear localization signals (amino acids 126-131) exhibits a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) binding activity. Competition experiments with different RNA homopolymers demonstrate that C114 preferentially binds to poly(I.C). Similar to other dsRNA-binding proteins, C114 binds to the dsRNA-activated protein kinase, protein kinase R (PKR), via dsRNA-binding domains of PKR and the N-terminal region of the C114 protein. In vitro kinase assays indicate that C114 inhibits PKR activation via a dsRNA-independent mechanism. Overexpression of C114 protein inhibits the induction of eIF-2alpha phosphorylation following poly(I.C) treatment. This is the first demonstration of a novel PKR modulator induced by a gp130 superfamily cytokine that may play a role in cytokine-mediated biological functions.
Oligomerization of transcriptional intermediary factor 1 regulators and interaction with ZNF74 nuclear matrix protein revealed by bioluminescence resonance energy transfer in living cells.	Transcriptional intermediary factor 1 (TIF1) alpha and KAP-1/TIF1beta, two members of the TIF1 family of nuclear cofactors, are ubiquitous co-regulators of nuclear receptors and KRAB motif-containing zinc finger transcription factors, respectively. Despite the functional evidence suggesting a role for TIF1 proteins as modulators of transcription, the study of their interactions with transcriptional machineries in physiologically relevant systems has been difficult. Here, we have developed a bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) biophysical approach to study protein-protein interactions in the nuclear compartment of living mammalian cells. We report that TIF1alpha and KAP-1 form homo- and hetero-oligomers in intact mammalian cells. BRET titration experiments indicate that both homo- and hetero-oligomers occur with relatively high affinity suggesting that they could co-exist in cells. Furthermore, we demonstrate that KAP-1 but not TIF1alpha interacts with the KRAB multifinger ZNF74 in the nuclear matrix. Splice variants and point mutants of ZNF74 that lack transcriptional activity were found not to interact with KAP-1 confirming the physiological importance of this interaction in living cells. The interaction of ZNF74 with KAP-1 did not prevent KAP-1 homomerization indicating that the oligomers most likely represent the transcriptionally active species. Furthermore, the detection of ternary ZNF74.KAP-1.TIF1alpha complexes suggests the existence of cross-talk between KAP-1-interacting KRAB proteins and TIF1alpha-interacting nuclear receptors. In addition to providing new insights into the molecular interactions involved in the transcriptional activities of these proteins, this study shows that BRET can be advantageously used as a non-transcription-based oligomerization detection system to study the interaction of transcriptionally active proteins, including nuclear matrix proteins, in living cells.
Presence of multiple mRNA cycling sequence element-binding proteins in Crithidia fasciculata.	A consensus sequence present in the 5'- or 3'-untranslated regions of several Crithidia fasciculata messenger RNAs encoding proteins involved in DNA metabolism has been shown to be necessary for the periodic accumulation of these mRNAs during the cell cycle. A protein complex termed cycling sequence-binding protein (CSBP) has two subunits, CSBPA and CSBPB, and binds the consensus sequence with high specificity. The binding activity of CSBP was shown to vary during the cell cycle in parallel with the levels of putative target mRNAs. Although disruption of the CSBPA gene resulted in loss of both CSBPA and CSBPB, the putative target message levels still continued to vary during the cell cycle. The presence of an additional and distinct binding activity was revealed in these CSBPA null mutant cells. This activity, termed CSBP II, was also expressed in wild-type Crithidia cells. CSBP II has higher binding specificity for the cycling sequence element than the earlier described CSBP complex. Three polypeptides associated with purified CSBP II show specific binding to the cycling sequence. These proteins may represent a family of sequence-specific RNA-binding proteins involved in post-transcriptional regulation.
Serine-arginine-rich protein p30 directs alternative splicing of glucocorticoid receptor pre-mRNA to glucocorticoid receptor beta in neutrophils.	Glucocorticoid (GC) insensitivity is a major clinical challenge in the treatment of many inflammatory diseases. It has been shown previously that GC insensitivity, in several inflammatory cell types, is due to an overabundance of the beta isoform of the glucocorticoid receptor (GCRbeta) relative to the ligand binding isoform, GCRalpha. GCRbeta functions as a dominant inhibitor of GCRalpha action. A number of GCR isoforms are created from the same pre-mRNA transcript via alternative splicing, and the factor or factors that control alternative splicing of GCR pre-mRNA are of great importance. In the current study, we have identified the predominant alternative splicing factor present in human neutrophils, which is known to be exceptionally GC-insensitive. The predominant alternative splicing factor in neutrophils is SRp30c, which is one of several highly conserved serine-arginine-rich (SR) proteins that are involved in both constitutive and alternative splicing in eukaryotic cells. Inhibition of SRp30c expression with antisense oligonucleotide strongly inhibited expression of GCRbeta and stimulated expression of GCRalpha. Antisense molecules targeted to other SR proteins had no effect. Our data indicate that SRp30c is necessary for alternative splicing of the GCR pre-mRNA to create mRNA encoding GCRbeta.
A role for Z-DNA binding in vaccinia virus pathogenesis.	The N-terminal domain of the E3L protein of vaccinia virus has sequence similarity to a family of Z-DNA binding proteins of defined three-dimensional structure and it is necessary for pathogenicity in mice. When other Z-DNA-binding domains are substituted for the similar E3L domain, the virus retains its lethality after intracranial inoculation. Mutations decreasing Z-DNA binding in the chimera correlate with decreases in viral pathogenicity, as do analogous mutations in wild-type E3L. A chimeric virus incorporating a related protein that does not bind Z-DNA is not pathogenic, but a mutation that creates Z-DNA binding makes a lethal virus. The ability to bind the Z conformation is thus essential to E3L activity. This finding may allow the design of a class of antiviral agents, including agents against variola (smallpox), which has an almost identical E3L.
Scw1p antagonizes the septation initiation network to regulate septum formation and cell separation in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	Cytokinesis in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe is regulated by a signaling pathway termed the septation initiation network (SIN). The SIN is essential for initiation of actomyosin ring constriction and septum formation. In a screen to search for mutations that can rescue the sid2-250 SIN mutant, we obtained scw1-18. Both the scw1-18 mutant and the scw1 deletion mutant (scw1Delta mutant), have defects in cell separation. Both the scw1-18 and scw1Delta mutations rescue the growth defects of not just the sid2-250 mutant but also the other temperature-sensitive SIN mutants. Other cytokinesis mutants, such as those defective for actomyosin ring formation, are not rescued by scw1Delta. scw1Delta does not seem to rescue the SIN by restoring SIN signaling defects. However, scw1Delta may function downstream of the SIN to promote septum formation, since scw1Delta can rescue the septum formation defects of the cps1-191beta-1,3-glucan synthase mutant, which is required for synthesis of the primary septum.
RBP38, a novel RNA-binding protein from trypanosomatid mitochondria, modulates RNA stability.	We describe here the isolation and characterization of a novel RNA-binding protein, RBP38, from Leishmania tarentolae mitochondria. This protein does not contain any known RNA-binding motifs and is highly conserved among the trypanosomatids, but no homologues were found in other organisms. Recombinant LtRBP38 binds single and double-stranded (ds) RNA substrates with dissociation constants in the 100 nM range, as determined by fluorescence polarization analysis. Downregulation of expression of the homologous gene, TbRBP38, in procyclic Trypanosoma brucei by using conditional dsRNA interference resulted in 80% reduction of steady-state levels of RNAs transcribed from both maxicircle and minicircle DNA. In organello pulse-chase labeling experiments were used to determine the stability of RNAs in mitochondria that were depleted of TbRBP38. The half-life of metabolically labeled RNA decreased from approximately 160 to approximately 60 min after depletion. In contrast, there was no change in transcriptional activity. These observations suggest a role of RBP38 in stabilizing mitochondrial RNA.
Stability of Nucleolin protein as the basis for the differential expression of Nucleolin mRNA and protein during serum starvation.	Nucleolin is a nucleolar phosphoprotein that plays a direct role in ribosome biogenesis. Our aim was to determine how its activity as a growth-promoting factor is coordinated with, if not regulated by, the cell cycle machinery. In serum starting and then rescuing these cells with serum, we found that the protein level did not drop in the same way that the mRNA level did. In addition, although the mRNA level rises during the immediate period during serum rescue, the protein level remained the same. We found that the protein level was maintained after serum starvation as a result of high stability. There was no selective enhanced translation of the remaining amount of Nucleolin mRNA. With regard to the constancy in protein level despite the rise in mRNA level during serum rescue, there is no concomitant degradation of newly synthesized or old protein and synthesis of new protein. Because Nucleolin has been documented to bind mRNA, APP mRNA being one among them, we propose a autoregulatory model in which Nucleolin regulates the translation of Nucleolin mRNA, such that during a period of excess protein, translation is inhibited through direct binding of Nucleolin protein to its mRNA.
RNA recognition via the SAM domain of Smaug.	The Nanos protein gradient in Drosophila, required for proper abdominal segmentation, is generated in part via translational repression of its mRNA by Smaug. We report here the crystal structure of the Smaug RNA binding domain, which shows no sequence homology to any previously characterized RNA binding motif. The structure reveals an unusual makeup in which a SAM domain, a common protein-protein interaction module, is affixed to a pseudo-HEAT repeat analogous topology (PHAT) domain. Unexpectedly, we find through a combination of structural and genetic analysis that it is primarily the SAM domain that interacts specifically with the appropriate nanos mRNA regulatory sequence. Therefore, in addition to their previously characterized roles in protein-protein interactions, some SAM domains play crucial roles in RNA binding.
Ciz1, Cip1 interacting zinc finger protein 1 binds the consensus DNA sequence ARYSR(0-2)YYAC.	The matrin 3 family of nuclear proteins consists of members with potentially diverse activities. Matrin 3 and NP220 share RNA-binding domains, and NP220 has been shown to recognize and bind to the DNA sequence, CCCCC (G/C). We have isolated and characterized another member of the matrin 3 family, designated NP94, from a medulloblastoma. This protein, also named Ciz1, has previously been characterized for its ability to interact with p21(Cip1/Waf1) and contains 3 zinc finger domains and a matrin 3-homologous domain 3. Our immunofluorescence and Northern blot analysis data indicate that Ciz1 is localized in the nucleus and is expressed in a wide range of tissues, especially the pancreas and the brain; within the brain, the highest message levels are found in the cerebellum. A modified selected and amplified binding (SAAB) sequence method was used to identify DNA sequences recognized by Ciz1. From the analysis of the retrieved SAAB sequences and verification using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we formulated a consensus DNA sequence, ARYSR(0-2)YYAC, recognized by Ciz1. The potential activities of Ciz1, including those involved in brain tumorigenesis, are discussed.
Structural similarity in the absence of sequence homology of the messenger RNA export factors Mtr2 and p15.	The association between Mtr2 and Mex67 is essential for the nuclear export of bulk messenger RNA in yeast. In metazoans, the analogous function is carried out by the TAP-p15 heterodimer. Whereas Mex67 and TAP are highly conserved proteins, their binding partners, Mtr2 and p15, share no sequence similarity, but are nevertheless functionally homologous. Here, we report the 2.8-A resolution crystal structure of Mtr2 in complex with the NTF2-like domain of Mex67. Mtr2 is a novel member of the NTF2-like family and interacts with Mex67, forming a complex with a similar structural architecture to that of TAP-p15. Mtr2 fulfils an analogous function to that of human p15 in maintaining the structural integrity of the heterodimer. In addition, Mtr2 presents a long internal loop, which contains residues that affect the export of the large ribosomal subunit.
The solution structure of YbcJ from Escherichia coli reveals a recently discovered alphaL motif involved in RNA binding.	The structure of the recombinant Escherichia coli protein YbcJ, a representative of a conserved family of bacterial proteins (COG2501), was determined by nuclear magnetic resonance. The fold of YbcJ identified it as a member of the larger family of S4-like RNA binding domains. These domains bind to structured RNA, such as that found in tRNA, rRNA, and a pseudoknot of mRNA. The structure of YbcJ revealed a highly conserved patch of basic residues, comprising amino acids K26, K38, R55, K56, and K59, which likely participate in RNA binding.
JE-TROSY: combined J- and TROSY-spectroscopy for the measurement of one-bond couplings in macromolecules.	With the application of RDCs in high-resolution NMR studies of macromolecules, there has been an interest in the development of accurate, sensitive methods for measuring 15N-1H and 13C-1H one-bond coupling constants. Most methods for determining these couplings are based on the measurement of the displacement between cross-peak components in J-coupled spectra. However, for large macromolecules and macromolecular complexes, these methods are often unreliable since differential relaxation can significantly broaden one of the multiplet components (i.e., the anti-TROSY component) and thereby make accurate determination of its position difficult. To overcome this problem, a J-evolved transverse relaxation optimized (JE-TROSY) method is presented for the determination of one-bond couplings that involves J-evolution of the sharpest cross-peak multiplet component selected in a TROSY experiment. Couplings are measured from the displacement of the TROSY component in the additional J-evolution dimension relative to a zero frequency origin. The JE-TROSY method is demonstrated on uniformly labeled 15N, 13C-labeled RNA and peptide samples, as well as with an RNA-protein complex, in which the protein is uniformly 15N, 13C-labeled. In all cases, resolved, sensitive spectra are obtained from which heteronuclear one-bond J-couplings could be accurately and easily measured.
Genetic variability among serotype G6 human rotaviruses: identification of a novel lineage isolated in Hungary.	Rotavirus serotype G6 has been demonstrated to be a rare cause of gastroenteritis in man. To date, only a few well characterized strains have been described from Italy, Australia, and the United States. Nucleotide sequencing of G6 VP7 genes shows that these strains belong to two distinct G6 lineages, one for strains of serotype P11[14],G6 (PA169-like strains) and one for strains of serotype P3[9],G6 (PA151-like strains). In this study, we sequenced the VP7 genes and VP8* gene fragments of human rotavirus G6 strains detected in Hungary. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that the VP7 genes of Hungarian G6 strains fell into three lineages, represented by a single PA169-like strain, three PA151-like strains, and two novel G6 strains, respectively. The amino acid sequence identity of VP7 was 97.2-100% within each lineage and 92-93.9% between any two lineages. The sequence analysis of VP8* revealed that the single PA169-like Hungarian G6 strain belonged to genotype P[14] and was phylogenetically closely related to P11[14],G6 strains characterized previously. In contrast, the VP8* of PA151-like Hungarian G6 strains clustered in accordance with their VP7 genes representing genetically distinguishable variants of genotype P[9]. This finding raises the possibility that Hungarian genotype P[9],G6 strains might have been generated through independent reassortment events. Serotype G6-specific primers for each human G6 lineage were also developed. The use of these primers in reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction genotyping may help determine the epidemiological role of G6 strains in humans.
Molecular cloning and nucleic acid binding properties of the GAP-associated tyrosine phosphoprotein p62.	p62 is a tyrosine phosphoprotein that associates with p21ras GTPase-activating protein (GAP). Purification and cDNA cloning of p62 reveal extensive sequence similarity to a putative hnRNP protein, GRP33. Recombinant human p62 purified from insect Sf9 cells binds to DNA and to mRNA and, like many proteins involved in mRNA processing, recombinant p62 is modified by dimethylation on multiple arginine residues. p62 also binds tightly to p21ras GAP in vitro: this binding depends on phosphorylation of p62 on tyrosine residues and occurs through SH2 regions of GAP. These data suggest that p120-GAP and p62 play a role in some aspect of mRNA processing or utilization and that this role may be regulated by tyrosine phosphorylation, and indirectly, by p21ras.
Isolation and characterization of a novel trans-factor for luteinizing hormone receptor mRNA from ovary.	Post-transcriptional mechanisms play a major role in regulating luteinizing hormone (LH) receptor mRNA expression in the ovary. An ovarian cytosolic protein that we have identified in rats and humans, which binds to a polypyrimidine-rich bipartitate sequence in the coding region of LHR mRNA, acts as a trans-acting factor in this process. In the present study, we isolated and characterized this LH receptor mRNA-binding protein (LRBP) from rat ovary. LRBP was purified to homogeneity by cation exchange chromatography followed by Northwestern analysis and subsequent elution of the single protein band from SDS-polyacrylamide gel. Purified LRBP was subjected to N-terminal microsequencing followed by homology search, which revealed its identity as mevalonate kinase. Purified rat mevalonate kinase antibody recognized the gel-purified LRBP on Western blots performed with one- and two-dimensional SDS-polyacrylamide gels. When recombinant mevalonate kinase produced in human embryonic kidney cells (293 cells) was tested, it showed all of the characteristics of LRBP with respect to specificity of LHR mRNA binding sequence, as examined by gel mobility shift analysis. Inhibition of LHR mRNA binding activity of mevalonate kinase in the presence of ATP and mevalonate indicates that the RNA recognition site of mevalonate kinase might involve the ATP/mevalonate binding region of the protein. Treatment of 293 cells with mevastatin to deplete cellular mevalonate resulted in an increase in LHR mRNA binding activity of mevalonate kinase. Collectively, the data support the novel function of rat mevalonate kinase as a LHR mRNA-binding protein in the post-transcriptional regulation of LH receptor expression in the ovary.
A description of the Mei2-like protein family; structure, phylogenetic distribution and biological context.	The Schizosaccharomyces pombe Mei2 gene encodes an RNA recognition motif (RRM) protein that stimulates meiosis upon binding a specific non-coding RNA and subsequent accumulation in a "mei2-dot" in the nucleus. We present here the first systematic characterization of the family of proteins with characteristic Mei2-like amino acid sequences. Mei2-like proteins are an ancient eukaryotic protein family with three identifiable RRMs. The C-terminal RRM (RRM3) is unique to Mei2-like proteins and is the most highly conserved of the three RRMs. RRM3 also contains conserved sequence elements at its C-terminus not found in other RRM domains. Single copy Mei2-like genes are present in some fungi, in alveolates such as Paramecium and in the early branching eukaryote Entamoeba histolytica, while plants contain small families of Mei2-like genes. While the C-terminal RRM is highly conserved between plants and fungi, indicating conservation of molecular mechanisms, plant Mei2-like genes have changed biological context to regulate various aspects of developmental pattern formation.
Artemin is an RNA-binding protein with high thermal stability and potential RNA chaperone activity.	Encysted embryos of the crustacean, Artemia franciscana, are among the most stress-resistant of all multicellular eukaryotes, due in part to massive amounts of p26, a small heat shock protein, that acts as a molecular chaperone. These embryos contain equally large amounts of another protein called artemin, of previously unknown function, that we report on here. Its thermal stability allows large-scale purification in about a day, using ammonium sulfate fractionation and incubation at 70 degrees C for 7 min, followed by gel filtration. The latter yields an artemin-RNA complex from which the pure protein, apo-artemin, was obtained by anion-exchange chromatography. We evaluated the possibility that artemin acts as a molecular chaperone for proteins, but obtained no evidence for that in vitro. The association of RNA with apo-artemin occurs at high temperatures and, although it is not yet clear whether artemin has a specific role as an RNA chaperone, it does bind non-polyadenylated RNAs which are then translated in vitro. Artemin-RNA is thermostable, some molecules resisting destruction after 30 min at 90 degrees C. The first order rate constant for denaturation and aggregation of artemin-RNA at 85 degrees C is 8.5 x 10(-3)min(-1), which compares well with other thermostable proteins of similar size ( approximately 500 kDa) such as the ferritins with which artemin has amino acid sequence similarity. The amount of artemin extracted from embryos that had been stored dry, under laboratory conditions, since 1951 is comparable to the amount in contemporary embryos, indicating its stability in situ, and supporting the in vitro heating studies.
RoXaN, a novel cellular protein containing TPR, LD, and zinc finger motifs, forms a ternary complex with eukaryotic initiation factor 4G and rotavirus NSP3.	Rotavirus mRNAs are capped but not polyadenylated, and viral proteins are translated by the cellular translation machinery. This is accomplished through the action of the viral nonstructural protein NSP3, which specifically binds the 3' consensus sequence of viral mRNAs and interacts with the eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF4G I. To further our understanding of the role of NSP3 in rotavirus replication, we looked for other cellular proteins capable of interacting with this viral protein. Using the yeast two-hybrid assay, we identified a novel cellular protein-binding partner for rotavirus NSP3. This 110-kDa cellular protein, named RoXaN (rotavirus X protein associated with NSP3), contains a minimum of three regions predicted to be involved in protein-protein or nucleic acid-protein interactions. A tetratricopeptide repeat region, a protein-protein interaction domain most often found in multiprotein complexes, is present in the amino-terminal region. In the carboxy terminus, at least five zinc finger motifs are observed, further suggesting the capacity of RoXaN to bind other proteins or nucleic acids. Between these two regions exists a paxillin leucine-aspartate repeat (LD) motif which is involved in protein-protein interactions. RoXaN is capable of interacting with NSP3 in vivo and during rotavirus infection. Domains of interaction were mapped and correspond to the dimerization domain of NSP3 (amino acids 163 to 237) and the LD domain of RoXaN (amino acids 244 to 341). The interaction between NSP3 and RoXaN does not impair the interaction between NSP3 and eIF4G I, and a ternary complex made of NSP3, RoXaN, and eIF4G I can be detected in rotavirus-infected cells, implicating RoXaN in translation regulation.
The extended left-handed helix: a simple nucleic acid-binding motif.	The poly-proline type II extended left-handed helical structure is well represented in proteins. In an effort to determine the helix's role in nucleic acid recognition and binding, a survey of 258 nucleic acid-binding protein structures from the Protein Data Bank was conducted. Results indicate that left-handed helices are commonly found at the nucleic acid interfacial regions. Three examples are used to illustrate the utility of this structural element as a recognition motif. The third K homology domain of NOVA-2, the Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen-1, and the Drosophila paired protein homeodomain all contain left-handed helices involved in nucleic acid interactions. In each structure, these helices were previously unidentified as left-handed helices by secondary structure algorithms but, rather, were identified as either having small amounts of hydrogen bond patterns to the rest of the protein or as being "unstructured." Proposed mechanisms for nucleic acid interactions by the extended left-handed helix include both nonspecific and specific recognition. The observed interactions indicate that this secondary structure utilizes an increase in protein backbone exposure for nucleic acid recognition. Both main-chain and side-chain atoms are involved in specific and nonspecific hydrogen bonding to nucleobases or sugar-phosphates, respectively. Our results emphasize the need to classify the left-handed helix as a viable nucleic acid recognition and binding motif, similar to previously identified motifs such as the helix-turn-helix, zinc fingers, leucine zippers, and others.
The interaction of RNA with TRAP: the role of triplet repeats and separating spacer nucleotides.	The trp RNA-binding attenuation protein (TRAP) regulates expression of the tryptophan biosynthetic genes in several Bacilli by binding to the leader region of the nascent trp mRNA, inhibiting continued transcription. The 11 subunit TRAP molecule is active in complex with tryptophan, and binds consequently an RNA target segment consisting of 11 (G/U)AG triplets, each separated by two or three non-conserved "spacer" nucleotides. Here, we report the first crystal structures of TRAP in a complex with RNA containing UAG triplets separated by two nucleotides and in a complex with RNA containing GAG triplets separated by three nucleotides. Comparison with known structures of TRAP-RNA complexes shows that both substitution of G-1 with U-1 in the triplet and addition of an extra spacer nucleotide lead to a more flexible complex. This suggests an explanation why, in the trp leader RNA, all three-nucleotide spacer regions are followed by a G-1 nucleotide. Taken together, the structures demonstrate that RNA binding to TRAP is mediated by specific interactions involving the A-2 and G-3 nucleotides of the triplet. This is accompanied by the disruption of stacking interactions between the bases of the other nucleotides, contributing to the increase in entropy that drives binding.
Polyamidoamine dendrimers inhibit binding of Tat peptide to TAR RNA.	The binding of polyamidoamine (PAMAM) dendrimer or Tat peptide to trans-acting responsive element (TAR) RNA has been studied using microgravimetric quartz crystal microbalance (QCM). Experimental results showed that PAMAM dendrimer could form complexes with TAR RNA. Especially, PAMAM dendrimer could disrupt the interaction of Tat peptide with TAR RNA, which is essential for HIV-1 virus replication, suggesting that QCM is a powerful tool for studying the binding processes of Tat peptide-TAR RNA and drug-TAR RNA and has great significance for the design of new drugs. An equation to measure the binding ability between TAR RNA and other species has been proposed.
The second RNA-binding domain of the human splicing factor ASF/SF2 is the critical domain controlling adenovirus E1A alternative 5'-splice site selection.	The human splicing factor ASF/SF2 (alternative splicing factor/splicing factor 2) is modular in structure with two RNA-binding domains (RBD1 and RBD2) and a C-terminal domain rich in arginine-serine dipeptide repeats. ASF/SF2 is an essential splicing factor that also functions as an important regulator of alternative splicing. In adenovirus E1A (early region 1A) alternative pre-mRNA splicing, ASF/SF2 functions as a strong inducer of proximal 5'-splice-site selection, both in vitro and in vivo. In the present study, we tested the functional role of individual domains of ASF/SF2 in alternative splicing in vitro. We show that ASF/SF2-RBD2 is the critical domain controlling E1A alternative splicing. In fact, RBD2 alone is sufficient to mimic the activity of the full-length ASF/SF2 protein as an inducer of proximal 5'-splice-site selection in vitro. The RBD2 domain induces a switch to E1A-proximal 5'-splice-site usage by repressing distal 12 S splicing and simultaneously stimulates proximal 13 S splicing. In contrast, the ASF/SF2-RBD1 domain has a more general splicing enhancer phenotype and appears to stimulate preferentially cap-proximal 5'-splice-site selection. Furthermore, the SWQDLKD motif, which is conserved in all SR proteins (serine/arginine-rich proteins) containing two RBDs, and the ribonucleoprotein-1-type RNA recognition motif were both found to be necessary for the alternative splice-site-switching activity of ASF/SF2. The RNP-1 motif was necessary for efficient RNA binding, whereas the SWQDLKD motif most probably contributes by functioning as a surface-mediating critical protein-protein contact during spliceosome assembly.
Crystal structures of the catalytic domains of pseudouridine synthases RluC and RluD from Escherichia coli.	The most frequent modification of RNA, the conversion of uridine bases to pseudouridines, is found in all living organisms and often in highly conserved locations in ribosomal and transfer RNA. RluC and RluD are homologous enzymes which each convert three specific uridine bases in Escherichia coli ribosomal 23S RNA to pseudouridine: bases 955, 2504, and 2580 in the case of RluC and 1911, 1915, and 1917 in the case of RluD. Both have an N-terminal S4 RNA binding domain. While the loss of RluC has little phenotypic effect, loss of RluD results in a much reduced growth rate. We have determined the crystal structures of the catalytic domain of RluC, and full-length RluD. The S4 domain of RluD appears to be highly flexible or unfolded and is completely invisible in the electron density map. Despite the conserved topology shared by the two proteins, the surface shape and charge distribution are very different. The models suggest significant differences in substrate binding by different pseudouridine synthases.
The tRNA-interacting factor p43 associates with mammalian arginyl-tRNA synthetase but does not modify its tRNA aminoacylation properties.	Arginyl-tRNA synthetase (ArgRS) is one of the nine synthetase components of a multienzyme complex containing three auxiliary proteins as well. We previously established that the N-terminal moiety of the auxiliary protein p43 associates with the N-terminal, eukaryotic-specific polypeptide extension of ArgRS. Because p43 is homologous to Arc1p, a yeast general RNA-binding protein that associates with MetRS and GluRS and plays the role of tRNA-binding cofactor in the aminoacylation reaction, we analyzed the functional significance of p43-ArgRS association. We had previously showed that full-length ArgRS, corresponding to the ArgRS species associated within the multisynthetase complex, and ArgRS with a deletion of 73 N-terminal amino acid residues, corresponding to a free species of ArgRS, both produced in yeast, have similar catalytic parameters (Lazard, M., Kerjan, P., Agou, F., and Mirande, M. (2000) J. Mol. Biol. 302, 991-1004). However, a recent study had suggested that association of p43 to ArgRS reduces the apparent K(M) of ArgRS to tRNA (Park, S. G., Jung, K. H., Lee, J. S., Jo, Y. J., Motegi, H., Kim, S., and Shiba, K. (1999) J. Biol. Chem. 274, 16673-16676). In this study, we analyzed in detail, by gel retardation assays and enzyme kinetics, the putative role of p43 as a tRNA-binding cofactor of ArgRS. The association of p43 with ArgRS neither strengthened tRNA-binding nor changed kinetic parameters in the amino acid activation or in the tRNA aminoacylation reaction. Furthermore, selective removal of the C-terminal RNA-binding domain of p43 from the multisynthetase complex did not affect kinetic parameters for ArgRS. Therefore, p43 has a dual function. It promotes association of ArgRS to the complex via its N-terminal domain, but its C-terminal RNA-binding domain may act as a tRNA-interacting factor for an as yet unidentified component of the complex.
Dynein light chain LC8 promotes assembly of the coiled-coil domain of swallow protein.	LC8 is a highly conserved light-chain subunit of cytoplasmic dynein that is thought to play a fundamental role in both the assembly of the motor complex and the recruitment of cargo. An interaction between LC8 and the Drosophila protein swallow has been previously characterized and supports a role for dynein in the localization of maternal morphogens during oogenesis. Swallow is required for the proper localization of bicoid mRNA, the anterior determinant that plays a critical role in establishment of the Drosophila embryonic axis. In this work, we prepared constructs of swallow, each containing a predicted coiled-coil domain and variable surrounding segments that lie within the domain proposed to interact with LC8. The interaction between LC8 and swallow domains was characterized by glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assays, limited proteolysis followed by mass spectrometry, and circular dichroic spectroscopy. Hydrodynamic measurements, covalent cross-linking, and circular dichroic spectroscopy show that this domain of swallow is an unstable dimeric coiled-coil. Upon LC8 binding, however, the coiled-coil becomes significantly more stable. A possible general role for LC8 in macromolecular assembly is discussed.
A new crystal structure of deoxyhypusine synthase reveals the configuration of the active enzyme and of an enzyme.NAD.inhibitor ternary complex.	Deoxyhypusine synthase catalyzes the first step in the two-step post-translational synthesis of hypusine, which is uniquely present in eukaryotic initiation factor 5A (eIF5A). Deoxyhypusine synthase and eIF5A are conserved throughout the eukaryotic kingdom, and both are essential for cell proliferation and survival. A previous study (Liao, D. I., Wolff, E. C., Park, M. H., and Davies, D. R. (1998) Structure 6, 23-32) of human deoxyhypusine synthase revealed four active sites of the homotetrameric enzyme located within deep tunnels. These Form I crystals were obtained under conditions of acidic pH and high ionic strength and likely contain an inactive enzyme. Each active-site entrance is blocked by a ball-and-chain motif composed of a region of extended structure capped by a two-turn alpha-helix. We report here at 2.2 A a new Form II crystal of the deoxyhypusine synthase:NAD holoenzyme grown at low ionic strength and pH 8.0, near the optimal pH for enzymatic activity. The ball-and-chain motif could not be detected in the electron density, suggesting that it swings freely and thus it no longer obstructs the active-site entrance. The deoxyhypusine synthase competitive inhibitor N(1)-guanyl-1,7-diaminoheptane (GC(7))is observed bound within the putative active site of the enzyme in the new crystal form (Form II) after exposure to the inhibitor. This first structure of a deoxyhypusine synthase.NAD.inhibitor ternary complex under physiological conditions now provides a structural context to discuss the results of previous biochemical investigations of the deoxyhypusine synthase reaction mechanism. This structure also provides a basis for the development of improved inhibitors and antiproliferative agents.
Chemical clamping allows for efficient phosphorylation of the RNA carrier protein Npl3.	Protein kinases phosphorylate the appropriate protein substrate by recognizing residues both proximal and distal to the site of phosphorylation. Although these distal contacts may provide excellent binding affinities (low Km values) through stabilization of the enzyme-substrate complex, these contacts could reduce catalytic turnover (decrease kcat) through slow phosphoprotein release. To investigate how protein kinases can overcome this problem and maintain both high substrate affinities and high turnover rates, the phosphorylation of the yeast RNA transport protein Npl3 by its natural protein kinase, Sky1p, was evaluated. Sky1p bound and phosphorylated Npl3 with a Km that was 2 orders of magnitude lower than a short peptide mimic representing the phosphorylation site and only proximal determinants. Surprisingly, this extraordinary difference is not the result of high affinity Npl3 binding. Rather, Npl3 achieves a low Km through a rapid and favorable phosphoryl transfer step. This step serves as a chemical clamp that locks the protein substrate in the active site without unduly stabilizing the product phosphoprotein and slowing its release. The chemical clamping mechanism offers an efficient means whereby a protein kinase can simultaneously achieve both high turnover and good substrate binding properties.
Binding of the 7SK snRNA turns the HEXIM1 protein into a P-TEFb (CDK9/cyclin T) inhibitor.	The positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) plays a pivotal role in productive elongation of nascent RNA molecules by RNA polymerase II. Core active P-TEFb is composed of CDK9 and cyclin T. In addition, mammalian cell extracts contain an inactive P-TEFb complex composed of four components, CDK9, cyclin T, the 7SK snRNA and the MAQ1/HEXIM1 protein. We now report an in vitro reconstitution of 7SK-dependent HEXIM1 association to purified P-TEFb and subsequent CDK9 inhibition. Yeast three-hybrid tests and gel-shift assays indicated that HEXIM1 binds 7SK snRNA directly and a 7SK snRNA-recognition motif was identified in the central part of HEXIM1 (amino acids (aa) 152-155). Data from yeast two-hybrid and pull-down assay on GST fusion proteins converge to a direct binding of P-TEFb to the HEXIM1 C-terminal domain (aa 181-359). Consistently, point mutations in an evolutionarily conserved motif (aa 202-205) were found to suppress P-TEFb binding and inhibition without affecting 7SK recognition. We propose that the RNA-binding domain of HEXIM1 mediates its association with 7SK and that P-TEFb then enters the complex through association with HEXIM1.
Crystal structure of elongation factor P from Thermus thermophilus HB8.	Translation elongation factor P (EF-P) stimulates ribosomal peptidyltransferase activity. EF-P is conserved in bacteria and is essential for cell viability. Eukarya and Archaea have an EF-P homologue, eukaryotic initiation factor 5A (eIF-5A). In the present study, we determined the crystal structure of EF-P from Thermus thermophilus HB8 at a 1.65-A resolution. EF-P consists of three beta-barrel domains (I, II, and III), whereas eIF-5A has only two domains (N and C domains). Domain I of EF-P is topologically the same as the N domain of eIF-5A. On the other hand, EF-P domains II and III share the same topology as that of the eIF-5A C domain, indicating that domains II and III arose by duplication. Intriguingly, the N-terminal half of domain II and the C-terminal half of domain III of EF-P have sequence homologies to the N- and C-terminal halves, respectively, of the eIF-5A C domain. The three domains of EF-P are arranged in an "L" shape, with 65- and 53-A-long arms at an angle of 95 degrees, which is reminiscent of tRNA. Furthermore, most of the EF-P protein surface is negatively charged. Therefore, EF-P mimics the tRNA shape but uses domain topologies different from those of the known tRNA-mimicry translation factors. Domain I of EF-P has a conserved positive charge at its tip, like the eIF-5A N domain.
Identification and characterization of a novel RNA binding protein that associates with the 5'-untranslated region of the chloroplast psbA mRNA.	Binding of proteins to chloroplast-encoded mRNAs has been shown to be an essential part of chloroplast gene expression. Four nuclear-encoded proteins (38, 47, 55, and 60 kDa) have been identified that bind to the 5'-untranslated region of the Chlamydomonas reinhardtii psbA mRNA with high affinity and specificity. We have cloned a cDNA that represents the 38 kDa protein (RB38) and show that it encodes a novel RNA binding protein that is primarily localized within the chloroplast stroma. RB38 contains four 70 amino acid repeats with a high percentage of basic amino acids, as well as an amino-terminal extension predicted to act as a chloroplast import sequence. We demonstrate that the 38 kDa precursor protein is imported into isolated chloroplasts and interacts with high specificity to uridine-rich regions within the 5'-untranslated region of the psbA mRNA. While database searches have identified hypothetical proteins from several other eukaryotic species with high sequence similarity to the deduced amino acid sequence of RB38, no proteins with homology to RB38 have been biochemically characterized. Bioinformatic analysis of the RB38 sequence, together with structure analysis using circular dichroism and protein modeling, suggests that the 70 amino acid repeats within RB38 are similar in fold to previously identified RNA binding motifs, despite limited sequence homology.
Fibroblast growth factor-2(23) binds directly to the survival of motoneuron protein and is associated with small nuclear RNAs.	The SMN (survival of motoneuron) protein is mutated in patients with the neurodegenerative disease spinal muscular atrophy. We have shown previously that a high-molecular-mass isoform of FGF (fibroblast growth factor) 2 (FGF-2(23)) is in a complex with SMN [Claus, Doring, Gringel, Muller-Ostermeyer, Fuhlrott, Kraft and Grothe (2003) J. Biol. Chem. 278, 479-485]. FGF-2 is a neurotrophic factor for motoneurons, and is known not only as a classical extracellular growth factor, but also as a nuclear protein. In the present study, we demonstrate that SMN binds to the arginine-rich N-terminus of FGF-2(23). In turn, FGF-2(23) interacts with amino acid residues 1-90 of the human SMN protein. This sequence displays nucleic-acid-binding capacity and overlaps partially with known binding sites for Gemin2/SIP1 (SMN-interacting protein 1) and p53. Finally, as a functional consequence of FGF-2(23) binding to SMN, FGF-2(23) is in a complex with the small nuclear RNAs U2 and U4. Since SMN functions as an assembly factor for snRNPs (small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles), these results suggest binding of FGF-2(23) to snRNPs.
Novel structure and nucleotide binding properties of HI1480 from Haemophilus influenzae: a protein with no known sequence homologues.	The crystal structure of the Haemophilus influenzae protein HI1480 was determined at 2.1-A resolution. The amino acid sequence of HI1480 is unique, having no homology with other known protein sequences. The protein adopts a novel alpha+beta fold, and associates into a dimer of tightly associated dimers. The tight dimers are formed by intermolecular interactions that are mediated by an antiparallel beta-barrel involving both monomers. Helical regions of two dimers mediate the tetramer formation. The helical region contains a four-helix bundle that has been seen only in the anticodon binding domains of class I tRNA synthetases. A cluster of four residues, Tyr18, Arg134, Glu26, and Lys12 is located in a depression formed at the four-helix bundle/ beta-barrel interface. The arrangement is suggestive of an active center, possibly a catalytic site. The HI1480 gene is located within the Mu-like prophage region of H. influenzae, has no homology to bacteriophage genes, and is flanked by transposases. Hence, this is an example of horizontal transfer from an unknown organism. Gel mobility shift assays revealed that HI1480 binds DNA and RNA molecules. Double-stranded DNA is favored over single-stranded DNA, and longer DNA molecules are bound better than shorter ones.
A protein interaction framework for human mRNA degradation.	The degradation of mRNA is an important regulatory step in the control of gene expression. However, mammalian RNA decay pathways remain poorly characterized. To provide a framework for studying mammalian RNA decay, a two-hybrid protein interaction map was generated using 54 constructs from 38 human proteins predicted to function in mRNA decay. The results provide evidence for interactions between many different proteins required for mRNA decay. Of particular interest are interactions between the poly(A) ribonuclease and the exosome and between the Lsm complex, decapping factors, and 5'-->3' exonucleases. Moreover, multiple interactions connect 5'-->3' and 3'-->5' decay proteins to each other and to nonsense-mediated decay factors, providing the opportunity for coordination between decay pathways. The interaction network also predicts the internal organization of the exosome and Lsm complexes. Additional interactions connect mRNA decay factors to many novel proteins and to proteins required for other steps in gene expression. These results provide an experimental insight into the organization of proteins required for mRNA decay and their coupling to other cellular processes, and the physiological relevance of many of these interactions are supported by their evolutionary conservation. The interactions also provide a wealth of hypotheses to guide future research on mRNA degradation and demonstrate the power of exhaustive protein interaction mapping in aiding understanding of uncharacterized protein complexes and pathways.
The PGL family proteins associate with germ granules and function redundantly in Caenorhabditis elegans germline development.	PGL-1 is a constitutive protein component of C. elegans germ granules, also known as P granules. Maternally supplied PGL-1 is essential for germline development but only at elevated temperature, raising the possibility that redundant factors provide sufficient function at lower temperatures. We have identified two PGL-1-related proteins, PGL-2 and PGL-3, by sequence analysis of the C. elegans genome and by a yeast two-hybrid screen for proteins that interact with PGL-1. PGL-3 is associated with P granules at all stages of development, while PGL-2 is associated with P granules only during postembryonic development. All three PGL proteins interact with each other in vitro. Furthermore, PGL-1 and PGL-3 are co-immunoprecipitated from embryo extracts, indicating that they are indeed in the same protein complex in vivo. Nevertheless, each PGL protein localizes to P granules independently of the other two. pgl-2 or pgl-3 single-mutant worms do not show obvious defects in germline development. However, pgl-1; pgl-3 (but not pgl-2; pgl-1) double-mutant hermaphrodites and males show significantly enhanced sterility at all temperatures, compared to pgl-1 alone. Mutant hermaphrodites show defects in germline proliferation and in production of healthy gametes and viable embryos. Our findings demonstrate that both PGL-2 and PGL-3 are components of P granules, both interact with PGL-1, and at least PGL-3 functions redundantly with PGL-1 to ensure fertility in both sexes of C. elegans.
Crystal structure of activated HutP; an RNA binding protein that regulates transcription of the hut operon in Bacillus subtilis.	HutP is an L-histidine-activated RNA binding protein that regulates the expression of the histidine utilization (hut) operon in Bacillus subtilis by binding to cis-acting regulatory sequences on the hut mRNA. The crystal structure of HutP complexed with an L-histidine analog showed a novel fold; there are four antiparallel beta strands in the central region of each monomer, with two alpha helices each on the front and back. Two HutP monomers form a dimer, and three dimers are arranged in crystallographic 3-fold symmetry to form a hexamer. A histidine analog was located in between the two monomers of HutP, with the imidazole group of L-histidine hydrogen bonded to Glu81. An activation mechanism is proposed based on the identification of key residues of HutP. The HutP binding region in hut mRNA was defined: it consists of three UAG trinucleotide motifs separated by four spacer nucleotides. Residues of HutP potentially important for RNA binding were identified.
Nucleolin interacts with telomerase.	Telomerase is a specialized reverse transcriptase composed of core RNA and protein subunits which plays essential roles in maintaining telomeres in actively dividing cells. Recent work indicates that telomerase shuttles between subcellular compartments during assembly and in response to specific stimuli. In particular, telomerase colocalizes with nucleoli in normal human fibroblasts. Here, we show that nucleolin, a major nucleolar phosphoprotein, interacts with telomerase and alters its subcellular localization. Nucleolin binds the human telomerase reverse transcriptase subunit (hTERT) through interactions with its RNA binding domain 4 and carboxyl-terminal RGG domain, and this binding also involves the telomerase RNA subunit hTERC. The protein-protein interaction between nucleolin and hTERT is critical for the nucleolar localization of hTERT. These findings indicate that interaction of hTERT and nucleolin participates in the dynamic intracellular localization of telomerase complex.
Stress granule assembly is mediated by prion-like aggregation of TIA-1.	TIA-1 is an RNA binding protein that promotes the assembly of stress granules (SGs), discrete cytoplasmic inclusions into which stalled translation initiation complexes are dynamically recruited in cells subjected to environmental stress. The RNA recognition motifs of TIA-1 are linked to a glutamine-rich prion-related domain (PRD). Truncation mutants lacking the PRD domain do not induce spontaneous SGs and are not recruited to arsenite-induced SGs, whereas the PRD forms aggregates that are recruited to SGs in low-level-expressing cells but prevent SG assembly in high-level-expressing cells. The PRD of TIA-1 exhibits many characteristics of prions: concentration-dependent aggregation that is inhibited by the molecular chaperone heat shock protein (HSP)70; resistance to protease digestion; sequestration of HSP27, HSP40, and HSP70; and induction of HSP70, a feedback regulator of PRD disaggregation. Substitution of the PRD with the aggregation domain of a yeast prion, SUP35-NM, reconstitutes SG assembly, confirming that a prion domain can mediate the assembly of SGs. Mouse embryomic fibroblasts (MEFs) lacking TIA-1 exhibit impaired ability to form SGs, although they exhibit normal phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF)2alpha in response to arsenite. Our results reveal that prion-like aggregation of TIA-1 regulates SG formation downstream of eIF2alpha phosphorylation in response to stress.
Escherichia coli Hfq has distinct interaction surfaces for DsrA, rpoS and poly(A) RNAs.	The bacterial Sm-like protein Hfq facilitates RNA-RNA interactions involved in post-transcriptional regulation of the stress response. Specifically, Hfq helps pair noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) with complementary regions of target mRNAs. To probe the mechanism of this pairing, we generated a series of Hfq mutants and measured their affinity for RNAs like those with which Hfq must associate in vivo. We tested the mutants' DsrA-dependent activation of rpoS, and their ability to stabilize DsrA ncRNA against degradation in vivo. Our results suggest that Hfq has two independent RNA-binding surfaces. In addition to a well-known site around the core of the Hfq hexamer, we observe interactions with the distal face of Hfq, a new locus with which mRNAs and poly(A) sequences associate. Our model explains how Hfq can simultaneously bind a ncRNA and its mRNA target to facilitate the strand displacement reaction required for Hfq-dependent translational regulation.
Solution structure of ribosomal protein L16 from Thermus thermophilus HB8.	Ribosomal protein L16 is an essential component of the bacterial ribosome. It organizes the architecture of aminoacyl tRNA binding site in the ribosome 50S subunit. The three-dimensional structure of L16 from Thermus thermophilus HB8 was determined by NMR. In solution, L16 forms an alpha+beta sandwich structure combined with two additional beta sheets located at the loop regions connecting the two layers. The terminal regions and a central loop region did not show any specific secondary structure. The structured part of L16 could be superimposed well on the C(alpha) model of L16 determined in the crystal structure of the ribosome 50S subunit. By overlaying the L16 solution structure onto the coordinates of the ribosome crystal structure, we constructed the combined model that represents the ribosome-bound state of L16 in the detailed structure. The model showed that L16 possesses residues in contact with helices 38, 39, 42, 43 and 89 of 23S rRNA and helix 4 of 5S rRNA. This suggests its broad effect on the ribosome architecture. Comparison of L16 with the L10e protein, which is the archaeal counterpart, showed that they share a common fold, but differ in some regions of functional importance, especially in the N-terminal region. All known mutation sites in L16 that confer resistance to avilamycin and evernimicin were positioned so that their side-chains were exposed to solvent in the internal cavity of the ribosome. This suggests the direct participation of L16 as a part of the binding site for antibiotics.
The double-stranded-RNA-binding motif: interference and much more.	RNA duplexes have been catapulted into the spotlight by the discovery of RNA interference and related phenomena. But double-stranded and highly structured RNAs have long been recognized as key players in cell processes ranging from RNA maturation and localization to the antiviral response in higher organisms. Penetrating insights into the metabolism and functions of such RNAs have come from the identification and study of proteins that contain the double-stranded-RNA-binding motif.
Picornavirus IRES: structure function relationship.	Picornavirus infections have been a challenging problem in human health. Genome organisation of picornavirus is unique in having a long, heavily-structured, multifunctional 5'untranslated region, preceding a single open reading frame from which all viral proteins are produced. Within the 5'leader, an internal region termed ribosome entry site (IRES) regulates viral protein synthesis in a 5'-independent manner. The IRES element itself is a distinctive feature of the picornavirus mRNAs, allowing efficient viral protein synthesis in infected cells in spite of a severe modification of translation initiation factors induced by viral proteases that lead to a fast inhibition of cellular protein synthesis. Picornavirus IRES elements are strongly structured, bearing several motifs, phylogenetically conserved, which are essential for IRES activity. Together with RNA structure, RNA-binding proteins play an essential role in the activity of the IRES element, having a profound effect on viral pathogenesis. Recent data on the involvement of these conserved motifs in RNA structure and protein recognition is discussed in detail. Understanding the interplay between these two components of IRES function is crucial to develop viral strategies aimed to use the viral RNA as the target of antiviral approaches.
Phosphorylation regulates the activity of the SMN complex during assembly of spliceosomal U snRNPs.	The assembly of spliceosomal U-rich small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (U snRNPs) is an ATP-dependent process mediated by the coordinated action of the SMN and the PRMT5 complex. Here, we provide evidence that the activity of this assembly machinery is regulated by means of post-translational modification. We show that two main components of the SMN/PRMT5 system, namely the survival motor neuron (SMN) protein (reduced levels thereof causing spinal muscular atrophy) and pICln, are phosphorylated in vivo. Both proteins share a previously unknown motif containing either one or two phosphoserines. Alteration of these residues in SMN (serines 28 and 31) significantly impairs the activity of the SMN complex. Despite the presence of SMN in both the nucleus and cytoplasm, we find that only the latter promotes efficient SMN-mediated U snRNP assembly activity. As cytoplasmic SMN is phosphorylated to a much larger extent, we hypothesize that this modification is a key activator of the SMN complex.
The Gly-Arg-rich C-terminal domain of pea nucleolin is a DNA helicase that catalytically translocates in the 5'- to 3'-direction.	Nucleolin is a major nucleolar phosphoprotein of exponentially growing eukaryotic cells. Here we report the cloning, purification, and characterization of the C-terminal glycine/arginine-rich (GAR) domain of pea nucleolin. The purified recombinant protein (17 kDa) shows ATP-/Mg(2+)-dependent DNA helicase and ssDNA-/Mg(2+)-dependent ATPase activities. The enzyme unwinds DNA in the 5'- to 3'-direction, which is the first report in plant for this directional activity. It unwinds forked/non-forked DNA with equal efficiency. The anti-nucleolin antibodies immunodepleted the activities of the enzyme. The DNA interacting ligands nogalamycin, daunorubicin, actinomycin C1, and ethidium bromide were inhibitory to DNA unwinding (with K(i) values of 0.40, 2.21, 8.0, and 9.0 microM, respectively) and ATPase (with K(i) values of 0.43, 1.65, 4.6, and 7.0 microM, respectively) activities of the enzyme. This study confirms that the unwinding and ATPase activities of pea nucleolin resided in the GAR domain. This study should make important contribution to our better understanding of DNA transaction in plants, mechanism of DNA unwinding, and the mechanism by which these ligands can disturb genome integrity.
Role for RNA-binding proteins implicated in pathogenic development of Ustilago maydis.	Ustilago maydis causes smut disease on corn. Successful infection depends on a number of morphological transitions, such as pheromone-dependent formation of conjugation tubes and the switch to filamentous dikaryotic growth, as well as different types of mycelial structures during growth within the host plant. In order to address the involvement of RNA-binding proteins during this developmental program, we identified 27 open reading frames from the genome sequence encoding potential RNA-binding proteins. They exhibit similarities to RNA-binding proteins with Pumilio homology domains (PUM), the K homology domain (KHD), the double-stranded RNA binding motif (DSRM), and the RNA recognition motif (RRM). For 18 of these genes, we generated replacement mutants in compatible haploid strains. Through analysis of growth behavior, morphology, cyclic AMP response, mating, and pathogenicity, we identified three candidates with aberrant phenotypes. Loss of Khd1, a K homology protein containing three KHDs, resulted in a cold-sensitive growth phenotype. Deletion of khd4 encoding a protein with five KHDs led to abnormal cell morphology, reduced mating, and virulence. rrm4Delta strains were affected in filamentous growth and pathogenicity. Rrm4 is an RRM protein with a so far unique domain organization consisting of three N-terminal RRMs as well as a domain found in the C terminus of poly(A)-binding proteins. These results indicate a role for RNA-binding proteins in regulation of morphology as well as in pathogenic development in U. maydis.
Significance of autoantibodies against insulin-like growth factor II mRNA-binding proteins in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.	Autoantibodies against insulin-like growth factor II mRNA-binding proteins (IMPs) were analyzed in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) to elucidate the significance of these autoantibodies. Five of 86 (5.8%) HCC patients had one or more of these autoantibodies. Serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) levels ranged within normal limits in HCC patients seropositive for anti-IMPs except for one case. One of HCC patients had anti-IMP1 and anti-IMP3 before the diagnosis of HCC. On the other hand, overexpressions of IMP1 and IMP2 in the tumor tissues were observed in 2 (28.6%) and 3 (42.9%) of 7 HCC tissues, respectively. One HCC patient with IMP1/2-overexpression in the tumor tissue had anti-IMP1/2, while the other HCC patients with overexpressions of IMP1/2 in the tumors did not have anti-IMP1/2. These findings may suggest that autoantibodies against IMPs are produced in an antigen-driven immune system and that anti-IMPs seem to be supplementary serological markers for the diagnosis of HCC in AFP-negative cases or predictive markers of HCC.
Ribosomal protein L1 recognizes the same specific structural motif in its target sites on the autoregulatory mRNA and 23S rRNA.	The RNA-binding ability of ribosomal protein L1 is of profound interest since the protein has a dual function as a ribosomal protein binding rRNA and as a translational repressor binding its mRNA. Here, we report the crystal structure of ribosomal protein L1 in complex with a specific fragment of its mRNA and compare it with the structure of L1 in complex with a specific fragment of 23S rRNA determined earlier. In both complexes, a strongly conserved RNA structural motif is involved in L1 binding through a conserved network of RNA-protein H-bonds inaccessible to the solvent. These interactions should be responsible for specific recognition between the protein and RNA. A large number of additional non-conserved RNA-protein H-bonds stabilizes both complexes. The added contribution of these non-conserved H-bonds makes the ribosomal complex much more stable than the regulatory one.
Role of Arc1p in the modulation of yeast glutamyl-tRNA synthetase activity.	Yeast methionyl-tRNA synthetase (MetRS) and glutamyl-tRNA synthetase (GluRS) possess N-terminal extensions that bind the cofactor Arc1p in trans. The strength of GluRS-Arc1p interaction is high enough to allow copurification of the two macromolecules in a 1:1 ratio, in contrast to MetRS. Deletion analysis from the C-terminal end of the GluRS appendix combined with previous N-terminal deletions of GluRS allows restriction of the Arc1p binding site to the 110-170 amino acid region of GluRS. This region has been shown to correspond to a novel protein-protein interaction domain present in both GluRS and Arc1p but not in MetRS [Galani, K., Grosshans, H., Deinert, K., Hurt, E. C., and Simos, G. (2001) EMBO J. 20, 6889-6898]. The GluRS apoenzyme fails to show significant kinetics of tRNA aminoacylation and charges unfractionated yeast tRNA at a level 10-fold reduced compared to Arc1p-bound GluRS. The K(m) values for tRNA(Glu) measured in the ATP-PP(i) exchange were similar for the two forms of GluRS, whereas k(cat) is increased 2-fold in the presence of Arc1p. Band-shift analysis revealed a 100-fold increase in tRNA binding affinity when Arc1p is bound to GluRS. This increase requires the RNA binding properties of the full-length Arc1p since Arc1p N domain leaves the K(d) of GluRS for tRNA unchanged. Transcripts of yeast tRNA(Glu) were poor substrates for measuring tRNA aminoacylation and could not be used to clarify whether Arc1p has a specific effect on the tRNA charging reaction.
Zinc finger proteins: getting a grip on RNA.	C2H2 (Cys-Cys-His-His motif) zinc finger proteins are members of a large superfamily of nucleic-acid-binding proteins in eukaryotes. On the basis of NMR and X-ray structures, we know that DNA sequence recognition involves a short alpha helix bound to the major groove. Exactly how some zinc finger proteins bind to double-stranded RNA has been a complete mystery for over two decades. This has been resolved by the long-awaited crystal structure of part of the TFIIIA-5S RNA complex. A comparison can be made with identical fingers in a TFIIIA-DNA structure. Additionally, the NMR structure of TIS11d bound to an AU-rich element reveals the molecular details of the interaction between CCCH fingers and single-stranded RNA. Together, these results contrast the different ways that zinc finger proteins bind with high specificity to their RNA targets.
Novel modes of protein-RNA recognition in the RNAi pathway.	Gene silencing mediated by RNA interference (RNAi) depends on short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and micro RNAs (miRNAs). These RNAs have unique features, namely a defined size of 19-21 base pairs, and characteristic two-nucleotide single-stranded 3' overhangs and 5' monophosphate groups. These molecular features of siRNAs and miRNAs are produced by RNase III enzymes, which are a hallmark of gene silencing induced by double-stranded RNA. Recent structural studies of components of the RNAi pathway, including PAZ, Piwi and RNase III domains, as well as full-length Argonaute and viral p19 proteins, have revealed distinct and novel modes of sequence-independent recognition of the characteristic features of siRNAs and miRNAs in the RNAi pathway.
The N-terminal domain of the vaccinia virus E3L-protein is required for neurovirulence, but not induction of a protective immune response.	Encephalitis is a rare, but serious complication from vaccination against smallpox using replication competent strains of vaccinia virus. In this report we describe mutants of vaccinia virus, containing N-terminal deletions of the vaccinia virus interferon resistance gene, E3L, that are attenuated for neuropathogenesis in a mouse model system. These recombinant viruses replicated to high titers in the nasal mucosa after intra-nasal infection of C57BL/6 mice but failed to spread to the lungs or brain. These viruses demonstrated reduced pathogenicity after intra-cranial infection as well, indicating a decrease in neurovirulence. Intra-nasal inoculation or inoculation by scarification with a low dose of recombinant virus containing a deletion of the entire N-terminal domain of E3L protected against challenge with a high dose of wild-type vaccinia virus, suggesting that this replication competent, but attenuated strain of vaccinia virus may have promise as an improved vaccine for protecting against smallpox, and as a vector for inducing mucosal immunity to heterologous pathogenic organisms.
Deletion of highly conserved arginine-rich RNA binding motif in cowpea chlorotic mottle virus capsid protein results in virion structural alterations and RNA packaging constraints.	The N-proximal region of cowpea chlorotic mottle virus (CCMV) capsid protein (CP) contains an arginine-rich RNA binding motif (ARM) that is also found in the CPs of other members of Bromoviridae and in other RNA binding proteins such as the Tat and Rev proteins of human immunodeficiency virus. To assess the critical role played by this motif during encapsidation, a variant of CCMV RNA3 (C3) precisely lacking the ARM region (C3/Delta919) of its CP gene was constructed. The biology and the competence of the matured CP derived in vivo from C3/Delta919 to assemble and package progeny RNA was examined in whole plants. Image analysis and computer-assisted three-dimensional reconstruction of wild-type and mutant virions revealed that the CP subunits bearing the engineered deletion assembled into polymorphic virions with altered surface topology. Northern blot analysis of virion RNA from mutant progeny demonstrated that the engineered mutation down-regulated packaging of all four viral RNAs; however, the packaging effect was more pronounced on genomic RNA1 and RNA2 than genomic RNA3 and its CP mRNA. In vitro assembly assays with mutant CP subunits and RNA transcripts demonstrated that the mutant CP is inherently not defective in packaging genomic RNA1 (53%) and RNA2 (54%), but their incorporation into virions was competitively inhibited by the presence of other viral RNAs. Northern blot analysis of RNA encapsidation in vivo of two distinct bromovirus RNA3 chimeras, constructed by exchanging CPs having the Delta919 deletion, demonstrated that the role of the conserved N-terminal ARM in recognizing and packaging specific RNA is distinct for each virus.
Structure and RNA binding of the third KH domain of poly(C)-binding protein 1.	Poly(C)-binding proteins (CPs) are important regulators of mRNA stability and translational regulation. They recognize C-rich RNA through their triple KH (hn RNP K homology) domain structures and are thought to carry out their function though direct protection of mRNA sites as well as through interactions with other RNA-binding proteins. We report the crystallographically derived structure of the third domain of alphaCP1 to 2.1 A resolution. alphaCP1-KH3 assumes a classical type I KH domain fold with a triple-stranded beta-sheet held against a three-helix cluster in a betaalphaalphabetabetaalpha configuration. Its binding affinity to an RNA sequence from the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of androgen receptor mRNA was determined using surface plasmon resonance, giving a K(d) of 4.37 microM, which is indicative of intermediate binding. A model of alphaCP1-KH3 with poly(C)-RNA was generated by homology to a recently reported RNA-bound KH domain structure and suggests the molecular basis for oligonucleotide binding and poly(C)-RNA specificity.
Predominance of porcine rotavirus G9 in Japanese piglets with diarrhea: close relationship of their VP7 genes with those of recent human G9 strains.	Type G9 of group A rotavirus (GAR) was shown to be predominant in a survey of VP7 (G) and VP4 (P) genotypes among porcine GARs associated with outbreaks of diarrhea in young pigs in Japan between 2000 and 2002. Comparison of the G9 VP7 gene sequences showed that the porcine G9 strains were more closely related to human G9 strains reemerging globally since the mid-1990s than to those from the mid-1980s. The VP7 gene sequences of porcine G9 strains from different farms were divergent (6.1 to 7.2% difference in nucleotides), suggesting that these G9 VP7 genes were not the result of recent introduction into the porcine population. Regarding the P genotype specificities of porcine G9 strains, while the majority of strains were close to unusual porcine P types (P[13] and P[23]), two strains were of the P[6] type, which has closer sequence identity with the human AU19 strain than with the porcine Gottfried strain. These unexpected results suggest that G9 GARs in the porcine population have spread more widely than previously thought and that the VP7 genes of porcine G9 strains and those of some human G9 strains detected recently may have a common progenitor.
NMR structural study of TcUBP1, a single RRM domain protein from Trypanosoma cruzi: contribution of a beta hairpin to RNA binding.	TcUBP1 is a trypanosome cytoplasmic RNA-binding protein containing a single, conserved RNA-recognition motif (RRM) domain involved in selective destabilization of U-rich mRNAs such as the Trypanosoma cruzi small mucin gene family mRNA, TcSMUG. TcUBP1 binds specific transcripts in vivo and co-localizes in the perinuclear part of the cell with components of the mRNA-stability determinant pathway such as poly(A)-binding protein 1 (PABP1) and TcUBP2, a closely related RRM-containing protein. In TcUBP proteins, the RRM domain is flanked by N-terminal Gln-rich and C-terminal Gly-Gln-rich extensions, which are involved in protein-protein interactions. In this work, we determined the solution structure of the TcUBP1 RRM domain by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. The domain has a characteristic betaalphabetabetaalphabeta fold, consisting of a beta sheet composed of four antiparallel betastrands and two alpha helices packed against one face of the beta sheet. A unique aspect of TcUBP1 is the participation of a beta hairpin (beta4-beta5) in the beta sheet, resulting in an enlarged RNA-binding surface. Detailed analysis of the TcUBP1 interaction with a short single-stranded RNA derived from the 3' UTR of TcSMUG was carried out by titration experiments using both NMR spectroscopy and isothermal titration calorimetry. This analysis revealed that amino acids located within the beta hairpin (beta4-beta5) contribute to complex formation. This enlarged protein-RNA interface could compensate for the lack of additional RNA-binding domains in TcUBP1, as observed in many other RRM-containing proteins. The structure of TcUBP1 reveals new aspects of single RRM-RNA interactions and insight into how N- and C-terminal extensions can contribute to RNA binding.
Composition and sequence-dependent binding of RNA to the nucleocapsid protein of Moloney murine leukemia virus.	All retroviruses package two copies of their genomes during virus assembly, both of which are required for strand transfer-mediated recombination during reverse transcription. Genome packaging is mediated by interactions between the nucleocapsid (NC) domains of assembling Gag polyproteins and an RNA packaging signal, located near the 5' end of the genome, called Psi. We recently discovered that the NC protein of the Moloney murine leukemia virus (MLV) can bind with high affinity to conserved UCUG elements within the MLV packaging signal [D'Souza, V., and Summers, M. F. (2004) Nature 431, 586-590]. Selective binding to dimeric RNA is regulated by a conformational RNA switch, in which the UCUG elements are sequestered by base pairing in the monomeric RNA and do not bind NC, but become exposed for NC binding upon dimerization. Dimerization-dependent structural changes occur in other regions of the Psi-site, exposing guanosine-containing segments that might also bind NC. Here we demonstrate that short RNAs containing three such sequences, ACAG, UUUG, and UCCG, can bind NC with significant affinity (K(d) = 94-315 nM). Titration experiments with oligoribonucleotides of varying lengths and compositions, combined with NMR-based structural studies, reveal that binding is strictly dependent on the presence of an unpaired guanosine, and that relative binding affinities can vary by more than 1 order of magnitude depending on the nature of the three upstream nucleotides. Binding is enhanced in short RNAs containing terminal phosphates, indicating that electrostatic interactions contribute significantly to binding. Our findings extend a previously published model for genome recognition, in which the NC domains of assembling Gag molecules interact with multiple X(i-3)-X(i-2)-X(i-1)-G(i) elements (X is a variable nucleotide) that appear to be preferentially exposed in the dimeric RNA.
13C NMR relaxation studies of RNA base and ribose nuclei reveal a complex pattern of motions in the RNA binding site for human U1A protein.	The widespread importance of induced fit and order-disorder transition in RNA recognition by proteins and small molecules makes it imperative that RNA motional properties are characterized quantitatively. Until now, however, very few studies have been dedicated to the systematic characterization of RNA motion and to their changes upon protein or small-molecule binding. The U1A protein-RNA complexes provide some of the best-studied examples of the role of RNA motional changes upon protein binding. Here, we report (13)C NMR relaxation studies of base and ribose dynamics for the RNA internal loop target of human U1A protein located within the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of the mRNA coding for U1A itself. We also report the semi-quantitative analysis of both fast (nano- to picosecond) and intermediate (micro- to millisecond) motions for this paradigmatic RNA system. We measure (13)C T(1), T(1rho) and heteronuclear nuclear Overhauser effects (NOEs) for sugar and base nuclei, as well as the power dependence of T(1rho) at 500 MHz and 750 MHz, and analyze these results using the model-free formalism. The results provide a much clearer picture of the type of motions experienced by this RNA in the absence of the protein than was provided by the analysis of the structure based solely on NOEs and scalar couplings. They define a model where the RNA internal loop region "breathes" on a micro- to millisecond timescale with respect to the double-helical regions. Superimposed on this slower motion, the residues at the very tip of the loop undergo faster (nano- to picosecond) motions. We hypothesize that these motions allow the RNA to sample multiple conformations so that the protein can select a structure within the ensemble that optimizes intermolecular contacts.
Structural insights into RNA quality control: the Ro autoantigen binds misfolded RNAs via its central cavity.	The Ro 60 kDa autoantigen is a major target of the immune response in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. In vertebrate cells, Ro binds misfolded small RNAs and likely functions in RNA quality control. In eukaryotes and bacteria, Ro also associates with small RNAs called Y RNAs. We present structures of unliganded Ro and Ro complexed with two RNAs at 1.95 and 2.2 A resolution, respectively. Ro consists of a von Willebrand factor A domain and a doughnut-shaped domain composed of HEAT repeats. In the complex, a fragment of Y RNA binds on the outer surface of the HEAT-repeat ring, and single-stranded RNA binds in the toroid hole. Mutagenesis supports a binding site for misfolded RNAs that encompasses both sites, with a single-stranded end inserted into the toroid cavity. Our experiments suggest that one role of Y RNAs may be to regulate access of other RNAs to Ro.
Escherichia coli DbpA is a 3' --> 5' RNA helicase.	Previous work has demonstrated that Escherichia coli DbpA is a nonprocessive RNA helicase that can disrupt short RNA helices on either the 5' side or 3' side of hairpin 92 of 23S rRNA. Here the directionality of the helicase activity of DbpA was determined by using substrates containing a short reporter helix in the presence of a second adjacent helix of varying stability placed either 5' or 3' of the reporter helix. When the second helix was on the 5' side of the reporter helix, it had no effect on the dissociation rate of the reporter helix. However, when the second helix was on the 3' side of the reporter helix, its dissociation rate determined the dissociation rate of the reporter helix. This defines DbpA as a 3' --> 5' helicase. Like other helicases, DbpA requires a single-stranded RNA loading site on the 3' side of the duplex for disruption to be observed. Since the loading site could be on either strand of the helix that was disrupted, hairpin 92 does not influence the directionality of the helicase but only aids in targeting RNA substrates.
Kinetic analysis of the role of the tyrosine 13, phenylalanine 56 and glutamine 54 network in the U1A/U1 hairpin II interaction.	The A protein of the U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle, interacting with its stem-loop RNA target (U1hpII), is frequently used as a paradigm for RNA binding by recognition motif domains (RRMs). U1A/U1hpII complex formation has been proposed to consist of at least two steps: electrostatically mediated alignment of both molecules followed by locking into place, based on the establishment of close-range interactions. The sequence of events between alignment and locking remains obscure. Here we examine the roles of three critical residues, Tyr13, Phe56 and Gln54, in complex formation and stability using Biacore. Our mutational and kinetic data suggest that Tyr13 plays a more important role than Phe56 in complex formation. Mutational analysis of Gln54, combined with molecular dynamics studies, points to Arg52 as another key residue in association. Based on our data and previous structural and modeling studies, we propose that electrostatic alignment of the molecules is followed by hydrogen bond formation between the RNA and Arg52, and the sequential establishment of interactions with loop bases (including Tyr13). A quadruple stack, sandwiching two bases between Phe56 and Asp92, would occur last and coincide with the rearrangement of a C-terminal helix that partially occludes the RRM surface in the free protein.
Multiple roles of arginine/serine-rich splicing factors in RNA processing.	SR proteins (serine- and arginine-rich proteins) are an evolutionarily conserved family consisting of essential pre-mRNA splicing factors. Since their discovery and initial characterization, roles of SR proteins in pre-mRNA splicing and in subsequent steps of post-transcriptional gene expression have expanded significantly. The current hypotheses suggest that SR proteins are multifunctional adaptor molecules that may couple distinct steps of RNA metabolism. In the present study, we will provide an overview of the roles of SR proteins in different steps of post-transcriptional gene expression.
Double-stranded RNA binding by human cytomegalovirus pTRS1.	The human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) TRS1 and IRS1 genes rescue replication of vaccinia virus (VV) that has a deletion of the double-stranded RNA binding protein gene E3L (VVDeltaE3L). Like E3L, these HCMV genes block the activation of key interferon-induced, double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-activated antiviral pathways. We investigated the hypothesis that the products of these HCMV genes act by binding to dsRNA. pTRS1 expressed by cell-free translation or by infection of mammalian cells with HCMV or recombinant VV bound to dsRNA. Competition experiments revealed that pTRS1 preferentially bound to dsRNA compared to double-stranded DNA or single-stranded RNA. 5'- and 3'-end deletion analyses mapped the TRS1 dsRNA-binding domain to amino acids 74 through 248, a region of identity to pIRS1 that contains no homology to known dsRNA-binding proteins. Deletion of the majority of this region (Delta86-246) completely abrogated dsRNA binding. To determine the role of the dsRNA-binding domain in the rescue of VVDeltaE3L replication, wild-type or deletion mutants of TRS1 were transfected into HeLa cells, which were then infected with VVDeltaE3L. While full-length TRS1 rescued VVDeltaE3L replication, deletion mutants affecting a carboxy-terminal region of TRS1 that is not required for dsRNA binding failed to rescue VVDeltaE3L. Analyses of stable cell lines revealed that the carboxy-terminal domain is necessary to prevent the shutoff of protein synthesis and the phosphorylation of eIF2alpha after VVDeltaE3L infection. Thus, pTRS1 contains an unconventional dsRNA-binding domain at its amino terminus, but a second function involving the carboxy terminus is also required for countering host cell antiviral responses.
Regions of bacteriophage T4 and RB69 RegA translational repressor proteins that determine RNA-binding specificity.	RegA protein of T4 and related bacteriophages is a highly conserved RNA-binding protein that represses the translation of many phage mRNAs that encode enzymes involved in DNA metabolism. RB69, a T4-related bacteriophage, has a unique regA gene, which we have cloned, sequenced, and expressed. The predicted amino acid sequence of RB69 RegA is 78% identical to that of T4 RegA. Plasmid-encoded RB69 RegA expressed in vivo represses the translation of T4 early mRNAs, including those of rIIA, rIIB, 44, 45, rpbA, and regA. Nucleotide sequences were determined for several T4 and RB69 regA mutations, and their corresponding repressor properties were characterized. All of the 10 missense mutations affect residues conserved between RB69 and T4 RegA. Two regions of RegA are especially sensitive to mutation: one between Val-15 and Ala-25 and another between Arg-70 and Ser-73. Sequence alignments and mutational data suggest that the region from Val-15 to Ala-25 is similar to helix-turn-helix domains of DNA-binding proteins and confers RNA-binding specificity upon RegA. The RegA691 protein (Ile-24----Thr) has an in vivo phenotype that appears to distinguish site-specific and cooperative binding modes of hierarchical RegA-mediated translational repression.
DJ-1 transcriptionally up-regulates the human tyrosine hydroxylase by inhibiting the sumoylation of pyrimidine tract-binding protein-associated splicing factor.	Loss-of-function mutations in DJ-1 cause a subset of familial Parkinson disease (PD). However, the mechanism underlying the selective vulnerability in dopaminergic pathway due to the inactivation of DJ-1 is unclear. Previously, we have reported that DJ-1 is a neuroprotective transcriptional co-activator interacting with the transcriptional co-repressor pyrimidine tract-binding protein-associated splicing factor (PSF). Here we show that DJ-1 and PSF bind and regulate the human tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) promoter. Inactivation of DJ-1 by small interference RNA (siRNA) results in decreased TH expression and l-DOPA production in human dopaminergic cell lines. Consistent with its role as a transcriptional regulator, DJ-1 specifically suppresses the global SUMO-1 modification. High molecular weight sumoylated protein species, including PSF, accumulate in the lymphoblast cells from the patients carrying pathogenic DJ-1 mutations. DJ-1 elevates the TH expression by inhibiting the sumoylation of PSF and preventing its sumoylation-dependent recruitment of histone deacetylase 1. Furthermore, siRNA silencing of DJ-1 decreases the acetylation of TH promoter-bound histones, and histone deacetylase inhibitors restore the DJ-1 siRNA-induced repression of TH. Therefore, our results suggest DJ-1 as a regulator of protein sumoylation and directly link the loss of DJ-1 expression and transcriptional dysfunction to impaired dopamine synthesis.
Increased CUG triplet repeat-binding protein-1 predisposes to impaired adipogenesis with aging.	Preadipocyte differentiation capacity declines between middle and old age. Expression of the adipogenic transcription factors, CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) alpha and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma), is lower in differentiating preadipocytes from old than young animals, although no age-related changes occur in C/EBPbeta mRNA, which is upstream of C/EBPalpha and PPARgamma. C/EBPbeta-liver-enriched inhibitory protein (C/EBPbeta-LIP), a truncated C/EBPbeta isoform that is a dominant inhibitor of differentiation, increases with aging in rat fat tissue and preadipocytes. CUG triplet repeat-binding protein-1 (CUGBP1) binds to C/EBPbeta mRNA, increasing C/EBPbeta-LIP translation. Abundance and nucleotide binding activity of CUGBP1 increased with aging in preadipocytes. CUGBP1 overexpression in preadipocytes from young animals increased C/EBPbeta-LIP and impaired adipogenesis. Decreasing CUGBP1 in preadipocytes from old rats by RNA interference reduced C/EBPbeta-LIP abundance and promoted adipogenesis. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha, levels of which are elevated in fat tissue with aging, increased CUGBP1 protein, CUGBP1 binding activity, and C/EBPbeta-LIP in preadipocytes from young rats. Thus, CUGBP1 contributes to regulation of adipogenesis in primary preadipocytes and is responsive to tumor necrosis factor-alpha. With aging, preadipocyte CUGBP1 abundance and activity increases, resulting in enhanced translation of the C/EBPbeta-LIP isoform, thereby blocking effects of adipogenic transcription factors, predisposing preadipocytes from old animals to resist adipogenesis. Altered translational processing, possibly related to changes in cytokine milieu and activation of stress responses, may contribute to changes in progenitor differentiation and tissue function with aging.
A novel nucleocytoplasmic shuttling sequence of DAZAP1, a testis-abundant RNA-binding protein.	Deleted in Azoospermia Associated Protein 1 (DAZAP1) is a ubiquitous RNA-binding protein highly expressed in the human and the mouse testes. It shows a dynamic subcellular localization during spermatogenesis, present predominantly in the nuclei of late-stage spermatocytes and round spermatids and translocated to the cytoplasm during spermatid elongation. To test the hypothesis that DAZAP1 shuttles between the nucleus and the cytoplasm, we studied the nuclear transport of DAZAP1 in somatic cells using immunostaining, heterokaryon formation, and mutagenesis. DAZAP1 is detected exclusively in the nucleus and has the ability to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm using a highly conserved 25 amino acid segment, designated ZNS, at its C terminus. ZNS shares no sequence homology with other known nuclear localization or export signals. Attachment of ZNS to a red fluorescent protein DsRed2 confers the nucleocytoplasmic shuttling ability to that protein. The nuclear localization of DAZAP1 depends on active transcription. In the presence of an RNA polymerase II inhibitor, DAZAP1 is retained in the cytoplasm. DAZAP1 colocalizes with hnRNP A1 and hnRNP C1 in the nucleus and is a component of the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles. Our results suggest that DAZAP1 plays a key role in mRNA transport during spermatogenesis.
The fragile X mental retardation protein interacts with a distinct mRNA nuclear export factor NXF2.	Loss of fragile X mental retardation protein, FMRP, causes the fragile X syndrome. Highly expressed in the brain and testis, FMRP has been implicated in the transport and translation of specific mRNAs. Here we show that FMRP and the mRNA nuclear export factor NXF2 co-express in the mouse male germ cells and hippocampal neurons and that FMRP associates with NXF2 but not with its close relative NXF1. We thus hypothesize that FMRP and NXF2 may act in concert to promote the nucleocytoplasmic transport of specific mRNAs in male germ cells and neurons.
Characterization of the functional domains of Escherichia coli RNase II.	RNase II is a single-stranded-specific 3'-exoribonuclease that degrades RNA generating 5'-mononucleotides. This enzyme is the prototype of an ubiquitous family of enzymes that are crucial in RNA metabolism and share a similar domain organization. By sequence prediction, three different domains have been assigned to the Escherichia coli RNase II: two RNA-binding domains at each end of the protein (CSD and S1), and a central RNB catalytic domain. In this work we have performed a functional characterization of these domains in order to address their role in the activity of RNase II. We have constructed a large set of RNase II truncated proteins and compared them to the wild-type regarding their exoribonucleolytic activity and RNA-binding ability. The dissociation constants were determined using different single- or double-stranded substrates. The results obtained revealed that S1 is the most important domain in the establishment of stable RNA-protein complexes, and its elimination results in a drastic reduction on RNA-binding ability. In addition, we also demonstrate that the N-terminal CSD plays a very specific role in RNase II, preventing a tight binding of the enzyme to single-stranded poly(A) chains. Moreover, the biochemical results obtained with RNB mutant that lacks both putative RNA-binding domains, revealed the presence of an additional region involved in RNA binding. Such region, was identified by sequence analysis and secondary structure prediction as a third putative RNA-binding domain located at the N-terminal part of RNB catalytic domain.
Molecular modeling of the human eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A (eIF5A) based on spectroscopic and computational analyses.	The eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A (eIF5A) is a protein ubiquitously present in archaea and eukarya, which undergoes a unique two-step post-translational modification called hypusination. Several studies have shown that hypusination is essential for a variety of functional roles for eIF5A, including cell proliferation and synthesis of proteins involved in cell cycle control. Up to now neither a totally selective inhibitor of hypusination nor an inhibitor capable of directly binding to eIF5A has been reported in the literature. The discovery of such an inhibitor might be achieved by computer-aided drug design based on the 3D structure of the human eIF5A. In this study, we present a molecular model for the human eIF5A protein based on the crystal structure of the eIF5A from Leishmania brasiliensis, and compare the modeled conformation of the loop bearing the hypusination site with circular dichroism data obtained with a synthetic peptide of this loop. Furthermore, analysis of amino acid variability between different human eIF5A isoforms revealed peculiar structural characteristics that are of functional relevance.
Phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetase contains a dispensable RNA-binding domain that contributes to the editing of noncognate aminoacyl-tRNA.	Phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetase (PheRS) is a multidomain (alphabeta)2 heterotetrameric protein responsible for synthesizing Phe-tRNA(Phe) during protein synthesis. Previous studies showed that the alpha subunit forms the catalytic core of the enzyme, while the beta subunit contains a number of autonomous structural modules with a wide range of functions including tRNA anticodon binding and editing of the misaminoacylated species Tyr-tRNA(Phe). The B2 domain of the beta subunit is a structural homologue of the EMAPII/OB fold, which has been shown in other systems to contribute to tRNA binding. Structural studies of PheRS indicated that the B2 domain is distant from bound tRNA(Phe), leaving the role of this module in question. On the basis of homology modeling with other EMAPII domain-containing proteins, the 110 amino acid B2 domain was deleted to produce PheRS deltaB2. Full-length PheRS and PheRS deltaB2 showed comparable kinetics for in vitro aminoacylation, and both enzymes complemented a defect in phenylalanylation in vivo. PheRS deltaB2 showed a 2-fold drop compared to full-length PheRS in the catalytic efficiency (kcat/KM) of Tyr-tRNA(Phe) hydrolysis, suggesting a role for the B2 domain in post-transfer editing. A comparison of tRNA binding by full-length PheRS and PheRS deltaB2 indicated that the B2 domain acts as a secondary tRNA-binding site that could contribute to editing by promoting the translocation of mischarged tRNA to the editing site of PheRS. This proposed role for the B2 domain of PheRS is consistent with previous studies, suggesting that the highly conserved EMAPII fold is able to modulate the affinity of tRNA for its primary binding site.
A tryptophan-rich hexapeptide inhibits nucleic acid destabilization chaperoned by the HIV-1 nucleocapsid protein.	The nucleocapsid protein (NC) of HIV-1 exerts critical functions in viral genome replication and virus assembly. Since the recognition of target nucleic acids is required in the initial step of most NC-mediated processes, attempts were made to find small molecules capable of competing with this recognition. In particular, several Trp-rich hexapeptides were recently found to strongly bind RNA sequences targeted by NC. To further validate these peptides as potential anti-NC agents, we studied the ability of Ac-HKWPWW-NH2, taken as a representative, to interfere with the NC chaperone properties required during reverse transcription. Using NMR and steady-state and time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy, we characterized the structure of Ac-HKWPWW-NH2 as well as its binding to viral sequences such as TAR and PBS involved in the two obligatory strand transfers of reverse transcription. Results show that Ac-HKWPWW-NH2 exhibits an almost symmetric cis-trans equilibrium at the level of the Pro residue where it is structured. The peptide binds both TAR and PBS sequences with low micromolar affinities. The cis-Pro and trans-Pro conformations of the peptide bind with comparable affinities to (-)PBS, mainly through stacking interactions between the Trp residues and the (-)PBS bases. Though all three Trp residues may contribute to the (-)PBS/Ac-HKWPWW-NH2 complex formation, Trp3 and Trp5 residues are the key residues in the complexes with the cis-Pro and trans-Pro conformations, respectively. Moreover, Ac-HKWPWW-NH2 stabilizes cTAR secondary structure and largely inhibits the NC-directed melting of cTAR. This further strengthens the interest of this peptide for deriving modified peptides capable of inhibiting NC and HIV-1 replication.
Structure-function analysis of rotavirus NSP2 octamer by using a novel complementation system.	Viral inclusion bodies, or viroplasms, that form in rotavirus-infected cells direct replication and packaging of the segmented double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) genome. NSP2, one of two rotavirus proteins needed for viroplasm assembly, possesses NTPase, RNA-binding, and helix-unwinding activities. NSP2 of the rotavirus group causing endemic infantile diarrhea (group A) was shown to self-assemble into large doughnut-shaped octamers with circumferential grooves and deep clefts containing nucleotide-binding histidine triad (HIT)-like motifs. Here, we demonstrate that NSP2 of group C rotavirus, a group that fails to reassort with group A viruses, retains the unique architecture of the group A octamer but differs in surface charge distribution. By using an NSP2-dependent complementation system, we show that the HIT-dependent NTPase activity of NSP2 is necessary for dsRNA synthesis, but not for viroplasm formation. The complementation system also showed that despite the retention of the octamer structure and the HIT-like fold, group C NSP2 failed to rescue replication and viroplasm formation in NSP2-deficient cells infected with group A rotavirus. The distinct differences in the surface charges on the Bristol and SA11 NSP2 octamers suggest that charge complementarity of the viroplasm-forming proteins guides the specificity of viroplasm formation and, possibly, reassortment restriction between rotavirus groups.
Crystallization and preliminary X-ray crystallographic studies of transportin 1 in complex with nucleocytoplasmic shuttling and nuclear localization fragments.	Nucleocytoplasmic transport of proteins with molar masses of larger than 60,000 is mediated by transport receptors. The transport receptor transportin1 (Trn1) transports various kinds of RNA-binding proteins such as JKTBP, hnRNP D and TAP. Trn1 was successfully cocrystallized with nucleocytoplasmic shuttling fragments of JKTBP and hnRNP D and a nuclear localization fragment of TAP. The crystal of the Trn1-JKTBP fragment complex belongs to space group P2(1)2(1)2, with unit-cell parameters a = 131.5, b =171.5, c = 68.2 angstroms. The crystals of Trn1 in complex with hnRNP D and TAP fragments are orthorhombic, space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 69.1, b = 119.1, c = 151.1 angstroms and a = 69.0, b = 119.1, c = 146.0 angstroms, respectively. The crystals diffracted to beyond 3.0, 3.2 and 2.4 angstroms resolution, respectively, using synchrotron radiation at SPring-8.
STD NMR spectroscopy and molecular modeling investigation of the binding of N-acetylneuraminic acid derivatives to rhesus rotavirus VP8* core.	The VP8* subunit of rotavirus spike protein VP4 contains a sialic acid (Sia)-binding domain important for host cell attachment and infection. In this study, the binding epitope of the N-acetylneuraminic acid (Neu5Ac) derivatives has been characterized by saturation transfer difference (STD) nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. From this STD NMR data, it is proposed that the VP8* core recognizes an identical binding epitope in both methyl alpha-D-N-acetylneuraminide (Neu5Acalpha2Me) and the disaccharide methyl S-(alpha-D-N-acetylneuraminosyl)-(2-->6)-6-thio-beta-D-galactopyranoside (Neu5Ac-alpha(2,6)-S-Galbeta1Me). In the VP8*-disaccharide complex, the Neu5Ac moiety contributes to the majority of interaction with the protein, whereas the galactose moiety is solvent-exposed. Molecular dynamics calculations of the VP8*-disaccharide complex indicated that the galactose moiety is unable to adopt a conformation that is in close proximity to the protein surface. STD NMR experiments with methyl 9-O-acetyl-alpha-D-N-acetylneuraminide (Neu5,9Ac(2)alpha2Me) in complex with rhesus rotavirus (RRV) VP8* revealed that both the N-acetamide and 9-O-acetate moieties are in close proximity to the Sia-binding domain, with the N-acetamide's methyl group being saturated to a larger extent, indicating a closer association with the protein. RRV VP8* does not appear to significantly recognize the unsaturated Neu5Ac derivative [2-deoxy-2,3-didehydro-D-N-acetylneuraminic acid (Neu5Ac2en)]. Molecular modeling of the protein-Neu5Ac2en complex indicates that key interactions between the protein and the unsaturated Neu5Ac derivative when compared with Neu5Acalpha2Me would not be sustained. Neu5Acalpha2Me, Neu5Ac-alpha(2,6)-S-Galbeta1Me, Neu5,9Ac(2)alpha2Me, and Neu5Ac2en inhibited rotavirus infection of MA104 cells by 61%, 35%, 30%, and 0%, respectively, at 10 mM concentration. NMR spectroscopic, molecular modeling, and infectivity inhibition results are in excellent agreement and provide valuable information for the design of inhibitors of rotavirus infection.
Cloning and expression of medaka dazl during embryogenesis and gametogenesis.	The Deleted in azoospermia family consists of RNA-binding proteins Boule, Daz, and Daz-like (Dazl) that are expressed in the germline. Here, we report the cloning and expression of the medakafish (Oryzias latipes) dazl gene (odazl). Interestingly, although the predicted medaka Dazl protein (oDazl) contains a RRM motif and a DAZ repeat characteristic of its mammalian homologs, it lacks 80 aa at the C-terminus. By RT-PCR, RNA in situ hybridization, Western blotting and fluorescent immunohistochemistry using a rabbit anti-Dazl antibody (alphaDazl), we analyzed the expression patterns of odazl and its protein. The odazl transcript persists throughout embryogenesis and delineates with primordial germ cells. In adults, the expression of odazl RNA and its protein is restricted to germ cells of both the testis and ovary. We observed differential expression of RNA and protein at critical stages of gametogenesis. In the testis, the odazl RNA is low at premeiotic stages, abundant at meiotic stages, but absent in postmeiotic stages; whereas the oDazl protein is rich in premeiotic stages, reduced at meiotic stages, becomes barely detectable or absent in postmeiotic round spermatids or sperm, respectively. This is in sharp contrast to the human situation where the Dazl transcript and protein are present in mature spermatozoa. In the ovary, the odazl RNA and protein persist throughout oogenesis and also show differential expression at premeiotic, meiotic and postmeiotic stages. Thus, the odazl or its protein is a marker for germ cells during embryogenesis and at critical stages of gametogenesis in both sexes of medaka.
Contributions of two nuclear localization signals of influenza A virus nucleoprotein to viral replication.	The RNA genome of influenza A virus, which forms viral ribonucleoprotein complexes (vRNPs) with viral polymerase subunit proteins (PA, PB1, and PB2) and nucleoprotein (NP), is transcribed and replicated in the nucleus. NP, the major component of vRNPs, has at least two amino acid sequences that serve as nuclear localization signals (NLSs): an unconventional NLS (residues 3 to 13; NLS1) and a bipartite NLS (residues 198 to 216; NLS2). Although both NLSs are known to play a role in nuclear transport, their relative contributions to viral replication are poorly understood. We therefore investigated their contributions to NP subcellular/subnuclear localization, viral RNA (vRNA) transcription, and viral replication. Abolishing the unconventional NLS caused NP to localize predominantly to the cytoplasm and affected its activity in vRNA transcription. However, we were able to create a virus whose NP contained amino acid substitutions in NLS1 known to abolish its nuclear localization function, although this virus was highly attenuated. These results indicate that while the unconventional NLS is not essential for viral replication, it is necessary for efficient viral mRNA synthesis. On the other hand, the bipartite NLS, whose contribution to the nuclear transport of NP is limited, was essential for vRNA transcription and NP's nucleolar accumulation. A virus with nonfunctional NLS2 could not be generated. Thus, the bipartite NLS, but not the unconventional NLS, of NP is essential for influenza A virus replication.
Thyroid hormones induce sumoylation of the cold shock domain-containing protein PIPPin in developing rat brain and in cultured neurons.	We previously identified a cold shock domain (CSD)-containing protein (PIPPin), expressed at high level in brain cells. PIPPin has the potential to undergo different posttranslational modifications and might be a good candidate to regulate the synthesis of specific proteins in response to extracellular stimuli. Here we report the effects of T(3) on PIPPin expression in developing rat brain. We found that a significant difference among euthyroid and hypothyroid newborn rats concerns sumoylation of nuclear PIPPin, which is abolished by hypothyroidism. Moreover, T(3) dependence of PIPPin sumoylation has been confirmed in cortical neurons purified from brain cortices and cultured in a chemically defined medium (Maat medium), with or without T(3). We also report that about one half of unmodified as well as all the sumoylated form of PIPPin could be extracted from nuclei with HCl, together with histones. Moreover, this HCl-soluble fraction remains in the nucleus even after treatment with 0.6 M KCl, thus suggesting strong interaction of PIPPin with nuclear structures and perhaps chromatin.
Structural basis for inhibition of translation by the tumor suppressor Pdcd4.	The tumor suppressor function of Programmed Cell Death 4 (Pdcd4) is achieved through interactions between Pdcd4 and components of the translation initiation complex, namely, the RNA helicase eIF4A and the scaffolding protein eIF4G. These interactions are mediated through two MA3 domains on the Pdcd4 molecule and result in inhibition of protein synthesis. We have solved the high-resolution crystal structure of the C-terminal MA3 (cMA3) domain of Pdcd4 in several crystal forms and demonstrated its similarity to the MA3 domain of eIF4G. As predicted by the structure, the cMA3 domain competes with eIF4Gc for binding to eIF4A and surprisingly is sufficient to inhibit translation initiation. Mutations that abolish eIF4A binding negate both functions of the cMA3. Interestingly mutations in the Akt phosphorylation site influenced neither cMA3 binding to eIF4A nor its ability to inhibit translation initiation. Finally, our structural analysis reveals MA3 domains to be a novel subfamily of VHS domains.
The CRM domain: an RNA binding module derived from an ancient ribosome-associated protein.	The CRS1-YhbY domain (also called the CRM domain) is represented as a stand-alone protein in Archaea and Bacteria, and in a family of single- and multidomain proteins in plants. The function of this domain is unknown, but structural data and the presence of the domain in several proteins known to interact with RNA have led to the proposal that it binds RNA. Here we describe a phylogenetic analysis of the domain, its incorporation into diverse proteins in plants, and biochemical properties of a prokaryotic and eukaryotic representative of the domain family. We show that a bacterial member of the family, Escherichia coli YhbY, is associated with pre-50S ribosomal subunits, suggesting that YhbY functions in ribosome assembly. GFP fused to a single-domain CRM protein from maize localizes to the nucleolus, suggesting that an analogous activity may have been retained in plants. We show further that an isolated maize CRM domain has RNA binding activity in vitro, and that a small motif shared with KH RNA binding domains, a conserved "GxxG" loop, contributes to its RNA binding activity. These and other results suggest that the CRM domain evolved in the context of ribosome function prior to the divergence of Archaea and Bacteria, that this function has been maintained in extant prokaryotes, and that the domain was recruited to serve as an RNA binding module during the evolution of plant genomes.
POGs/PlantRBP: a resource for comparative genomics in plants.	POGs/PlantRBP (http://plantrbp.uoregon.edu/) is a relational database that integrates data from rice, Arabidopsis, and maize by placing the complete Arabidopsis and rice proteomes and available maize sequences into 'putative orthologous groups' (POGs). Annotation efforts will focus on predicted RNA binding proteins (RBPs): i.e. those with known RNA binding domains or otherwise implicated in RNA function. POGs form the heart of the database, and were assigned using a mutual-best-hit-strategy after performing BLAST comparisons of the predicted Arabidopsis and rice proteomes. Each POG entry includes orthologs in Arabidopsis and rice, annotated with domain organization, gene models, phylogenetic trees, and multiple intracellular targeting predictions. A graphical display maps maize sequences on to their most similar rice gene model. The database can be queried using any combination of gene name, accession, domain, and predicted intracellular location, or using BLAST. Useful features of the database include the ability to search for proteins with both a specified domain content and intracellular location, the concurrent display of mutual best hits and phylogenetic trees which facilitates evaluation of POG assignments, the association of maize sequences with POGs, and the display of targeting predictions and domain organization for all POG members, which reveals consistency, or lack thereof, of those predictions.
Structural and biochemical characterization of the yeast exosome component Rrp40.	The exosome is a protein complex that is important in both degradation and 3'-processing of eukaryotic RNAs. We present the crystal structure of the Rrp40 exosome subunit from Saccharomyces cerevisiae at a resolution of 2.2 A. The structure comprises an S1 domain and an unusual KH (K homology) domain. Close packing of the S1 and KH domains is stabilized by a GxNG sequence, which is uniquely conserved in exosome KH domains. Nuclear magnetic resonance data reveal the presence of a manganese-binding site at the interface of the two domains. Isothermal titration calorimetry shows that Rrp40 and archaeal Rrp4 alone have very low intrinsic affinity for RNA. The affinity of an archaeal core exosome for RNA is significantly increased in the presence of the S1-KH subunit Rrp4, indicating that multiple subunits might contribute to cooperative binding of RNA substrates by the exosome.
Heme is involved in microRNA processing.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate the expression of a large number of protein-coding genes. Their primary transcripts (pri-miRNAs) have to undergo multiple processing steps to reach the functional form. Little is known about how the processing of miRNAs is modulated. Here we show that the RNA-binding protein DiGeorge critical region-8 (DGCR8), which is essential for the first processing step, is a heme-binding protein. The association with heme promotes dimerization of DGCR8. The heme-bound DGCR8 dimer seems to trimerize upon binding pri-miRNAs and is active in triggering pri-miRNA cleavage, whereas the heme-free monomer is much less active. A heme-binding region of DGCR8 inhibits the pri-miRNA-processing activity of the monomer. This putative autoinhibition is overcome by heme. Our finding that heme is involved in pri-miRNA processing suggests that the gene-regulation network of miRNAs and signal-transduction pathways involving heme might be connected.
Priming with cold-adapted influenza A does not prevent infection but elicits long-lived protection against supralethal challenge with heterosubtypic virus.	We show in this study several novel features of T cell-based heterosubtypic immunity against the influenza A virus in mice. First, T cell-mediated heterosubtypic protection against lethal challenge can be generated by a very low priming dose. Second, it becomes effective within 5-6 days. Third, it provides protection against a very high dose challenge for >70 days. Also novel is the finding that strong, long-lasting, heterosubtypic protection can be elicited by priming with attenuated cold-adapted strains. We demonstrate that priming does not prevent infection of the lungs following challenge, but leads to earlier clearance of the virus and 100% survival after otherwise lethal challenge. Protection is dependent on CD8 T cells, and we show that CD4 and CD8 T cells reactive to conserved epitopes of the core proteins of the challenge virus are present after priming. Our results suggest that intranasal vaccination with cold-adapted, attenuated live virus has the potential to provide effective emergency protection against emerging influenza strains for several months.
Specificity of the deoxyhypusine hydroxylase-eukaryotic translation initiation factor (eIF5A) interaction: identification of amino acid residues of the enzyme required for binding of its substrate, deoxyhypusine-containing eIF5A.	Deoxyhypusine hydroxylase (DOHH) is a novel metalloenzyme that catalyzes the final step of the post-translational synthesis of hypusine (Nepsilon-(4-amino-2-hydroxybutyl)lysine) in the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A (eIF5A). Hypusine synthesis is unique in that it occurs in only one protein, denoting the strict specificity of the modification enzymes toward the substrate protein. The specificity of the interaction between eIF5A and DOHH was investigated using human eIF5A (eIF5A-1 isoform) and human recombinant DOHH. DOHH displayed a strong preference for binding the deoxyhypusine-containing form of eIF5A, over the eIF5A precursor or the hypusine-containing eIF5A, indicating a role for the deoxyhypusine residue in binding. In addition to the deoxyhypusine residue, a large portion of the eIF5A polypeptide (>20-90 amino acids) is required for effective modification by DOHH. We have identified the amino acid residues of DOHH that are critical for substrate binding by alanine substitution of 36 conserved amino acid residues. Of these, alanine substitution at Glu57, Glu90, Glu208, Glu241, Gly63, or Gly214 caused a severe impairment in eIF5A(Dhp) binding, with a complete loss of binding and activity in the E57A and E208A mutant enzymes. Only aspartate substitution mutants, E57D or E208D, retained partial activity and substrate binding, whereas alanine, glutamine, or asparagine mutants did not. These findings support a proposed model of DOHH-eIF5A binding in which the amino group(s) of the deoxyhypusine side chain of the substrate is primarily anchored by gamma-carboxyl groups of Glu57 and Glu208 at the DOHH active site.
DISPLAR: an accurate method for predicting DNA-binding sites on protein surfaces.	Structural and physical properties of DNA provide important constraints on the binding sites formed on surfaces of DNA-targeting proteins. Characteristics of such binding sites may form the basis for predicting DNA-binding sites from the structures of proteins alone. Such an approach has been successfully developed for predicting protein-protein interface. Here this approach is adapted for predicting DNA-binding sites. We used a representative set of 264 protein-DNA complexes from the Protein Data Bank to analyze characteristics and to train and test a neural network predictor of DNA-binding sites. The input to the predictor consisted of PSI-blast sequence profiles and solvent accessibilities of each surface residue and 14 of its closest neighboring residues. Predicted DNA-contacting residues cover 60% of actual DNA-contacting residues and have an accuracy of 76%. This method significantly outperforms previous attempts of DNA-binding site predictions. Its application to the prion protein yielded a DNA-binding site that is consistent with recent NMR chemical shift perturbation data, suggesting that it can complement experimental techniques in characterizing protein-DNA interfaces.
Conserved patterns of nuclear compartmentalization are not observed in the chordate Oikopleura.	Recent results from a limited number of eukaryotic model organisms suggest that major principles governing spatial organization of the genome in functionally distinct nuclear compartments are conserved through evolution.
Molecular composition of IMP1 ribonucleoprotein granules.	Localized mRNAs are transported to sites of local protein synthesis in large ribonucleoprotein (RNP) granules, but their molecular composition is incompletely understood. Insulin-like growth factor II mRNA-binding protein (IMP) zip code-binding proteins participate in mRNA localization, and in motile cells IMP-containing granules are dispersed around the nucleus and in cellular protrusions. We isolated the IMP1-containing RNP granules and found that they represent a unique RNP entity distinct from neuronal hStaufen and/or fragile X mental retardation protein granules, processing bodies, and stress granules. Granules were 100-300 nm in diameter and consisted of IMPs, 40 S ribosomal subunits, shuttling heterologous nuclear RNPs, poly(A)-binding proteins, and mRNAs. Moreover granules contained CBP80 and factors belonging to the exon junction complex and lacked eIF4E, eIF4G, and 60 S ribosomal subunits, indicating that embodied mRNAs are not translated. Granules embodied mRNAs corresponding to about 3% of the human embryonic kidney 293 mRNA transcriptome. Messenger RNAs encoding proteins participating in the secretory pathway and endoplasmic reticulum-associated quality control, as well as ubiquitin-dependent metabolism, were enriched in the granules, reinforcing the concept of RNP granules as post-transcriptional operons.
Insight into host cell carbohydrate-recognition by human and porcine rotavirus from crystal structures of the virion spike associated carbohydrate-binding domain (VP8*).	Rotavirus infection leads to the death of half a million children annually. The exact specifics of interaction between rotavirus particles and host cells enabling invasion and infection have remained elusive. Host cell oligosaccharides are critical components, and their involvement aids the virus in cell-recognition and attachment, as well as dictation of the remarkable host-specificity that rotaviruses demonstrate. Interaction between the rotavirus spike-protein carbohydrate-binding domain (VP8*) and cell surface oligosaccharides facilitate virus recognition of host cells and attachment. Rotaviruses are considered, controversially, to recognise vastly different carbohydrate structures and either with incorporation of terminal sialic acid or without, as assessed by their ability to infect cells that have been pre-treated with sialidases. Herein, the X-ray crystallographic structures of VP8* from the sialidase insensitive Wa and the sialidase sensitive CRW-8 rotavirus strains that cause debilitating gastroenteritis in human and pig are reported. Striking differences are apparent regarding recognition of the sialic acid derivative methyl alpha-D-N-acetylneuraminide, presenting the first experimental evidence of the inability of the human rotavirus strain to bind this monosaccharide, that correlates with Wa and CRW-8 recognising sialidase-resistant and sialidase-sensitive receptors, respectively. Identified are structural features that provide insight in attainment of substrate specificity exhibited by porcine strains as compared to rhesus rotavirus. Revealed in the CRW-8 VP8* structure is an additional bound ligand that intriguingly, is within a cleft located equivalent to the carbohydrate-binding region of galectins, and is suggestive of a new region for interaction with cell-surface carbohydrates. This novel result and detailed comparison of our representative sialidase-sensitive CRW-8 and insensitive Wa VP8* structures with those reported leads to our hypothesis that this groove is used for binding carbohydrates, and that for the human strains, as for other sialidase-insensitive strains could represent a major oligosaccharide-binding region.
The spinal muscular atrophy gene product regulates neurite outgrowth: importance of the C terminus.	Spinal muscular atrophy is a neurodegenerative disease accompanied by a loss of motoneurons. Either mutations or deletions in the survival of motoneuron (SMN) gene are responsible for this defect. SMN is an assembly protein for RNA-protein complexes in the nucleus and is also found in axons of neurons. However, it is unclear which dysfunctions of SMN are important for disease progression. In this study we analyzed the contributions of different SMN regions for localization and neuronal differentiation associated with outgrowth of neurites. Suppression of endogenous SMN protein levels significantly decreased the growth of neurites. Down-regulation of the interacting protein gemin2 had the opposite effect. Surprisingly, selective overexpression of the SMN C-terminal domain promoted neurite outgrowth similar to full-length protein and could rescue the SMN knock-down effects. The knock-down led to a significant change in the G-/F-actin ratio, indicating a role for SMN in actin dynamics. Therefore, our data suggest a functional role for SMN in microfilament metabolism in axons of motoneurons.
Structure and interactions of the first three RNA recognition motifs of splicing factor prp24.	The essential Saccharomyces cerevisiae pre-messenger RNA splicing protein 24 (Prp24) has four RNA recognition motifs (RRMs) and facilitates U6 RNA base-pairing with U4 RNA during spliceosome assembly. Prp24 is a component of the free U6 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (snRNP) but not the U4/U6 bi-snRNP, and so is thought to be displaced from U6 by U4/U6 base-pairing. The interaction partners of each of the four RRMs of Prp24 and how these interactions direct U4/U6 pairing are not known. Here we report the crystal structure of the first three RRMs and the solution structure of the first two RRMs of Prp24. Strikingly, RRM 2 forms extensive inter-domain contacts with RRMs 1 and 3. These contacts occupy much of the canonical RNA-binding faces (beta-sheets) of RRMs 1 and 2, but leave the beta-sheet of RRM 3 exposed. Previously identified substitutions in Prp24 that suppress mutations in U4 and U6 spliceosomal RNAs cluster primarily in the beta-sheet of RRM 3, but also in a conserved loop of RRM 2. RNA binding assays and chemical shift mapping indicate that a large basic patch evident on the surface of RRMs 1 and 2 is part of a high affinity U6 RNA binding site. Our results suggest that Prp24 binds free U6 RNA primarily with RRMs 1 and 2, which may remodel the U6 secondary structure. The beta-sheet of RRM 3 then influences U4/U6 pairing through interaction with an unidentified ligand.
The crystal structure of E. coli rRNA pseudouridine synthase RluE.	Pseudouridine synthase RluE modifies U2457 in a stem of 23 S RNA in Escherichia coli. This modification is located in the peptidyl transferase center of the ribosome. We determined the crystal structures of the C-terminal, catalytic domain of E. coli RluE at 1.2 A resolution and of full-length RluE at 1.6 A resolution. The crystals of the full-length enzyme contain two molecules in the asymmetric unit and in both molecules the N-terminal domain is disordered. The protein has an active site cleft, conserved in all other pseudouridine synthases, that contains invariant Asp and Tyr residues implicated in catalysis. An electropositive surface patch that covers the active site cleft is just wide enough to accommodate an RNA stem. The RNA substrate stem can be docked to this surface such that the catalytic Asp is adjacent to the target base, and a conserved Arg is positioned to help flip the target base out of the stem into the enzyme active site. A flexible RluE specific loop lies close to the conserved region of the stem in the model, and may contribute to substrate specificity. The stem alone is not a good RluE substrate, suggesting RluE makes additional interactions with other regions in the ribosome.
An improved definition of the RNA-binding specificity of SECIS-binding protein 2, an essential component of the selenocysteine incorporation machinery.	By binding to SECIS elements located in the 3'-UTR of selenoprotein mRNAs, the protein SBP2 plays a key role in the assembly of the selenocysteine incorporation machinery. SBP2 contains an L7Ae/L30 RNA-binding domain similar to that of protein 15.5K/Snu13p, which binds K-turn motifs with a 3-nt bulge loop closed by a tandem of G.A and A.G pairs. Here, by SELEX experiments, we demonstrate the capacity of SBP2 to bind such K-turn motifs with a protruding U residue. However, we show that conversion of the bulge loop into an internal loop reinforces SBP2 affinity and to a greater extent RNP stability. Opposite variations were found for Snu13p. Accordingly, footprinting assays revealed strong contacts of SBP2 with helices I and II and the 5'-strand of the internal loop, as opposed to the loose interaction of Snu13p. Our data also identifies new determinants for SBP2 binding which are located in helix II. Among the L7Ae/L30 family members, these determinants are unique to SBP2. Finally, in accordance with functional data on SECIS elements, the identity of residues at positions 2 and 3 in the loop influences SBP2 affinity. Altogether, the data provide a very precise definition of the SBP2 RNA specificity.
The N-terminal double-stranded RNA binding domains of Arabidopsis HYPONASTIC LEAVES1 are sufficient for pre-microRNA processing.	Arabidopsis thaliana HYPONASTIC LEAVES1 (HYL1) is a microRNA (miRNA) biogenesis protein that contains two N-terminal double-stranded RNA binding domains (dsRBDs), a putative nuclear localization site (NLS), and a putative protein-protein interaction domain. The interaction of HYL1 with DICER-LIKE1 is important for the efficient and precise processing of miRNA primary transcripts in plant miRNA biogenesis. To define the roles of the various domains of HYL1 in miRNA processing and the miRNA-directed phenotype, we transferred a series of HYL1 deletion constructs into hyl1 null mutants. The N-terminal region containing dsRBD1 and dsRBD2 completely rescued the mutant phenotype of hyl1, triggering the accumulation of miR166 and miR160 and resulting in reduced mRNA levels of the targeted genes. In vivo biochemical analysis of the HYL1-containing complexes from the transgenic plants revealed that the N-terminal dsRBDs of HYL1 were sufficient for processing miRNA precursors and the generation of mature miRNA. Transient and stable expression analysis demonstrated that the putative NLS domain was indeed the nuclear localization signal, whereas the N-terminal region containing the dsRBDs was not restricted to the nucleus. We suggest that the N-terminal dsRBDs fulfill the function of the whole HYL1 and thus play an essential role in miRNA processing and miRNA-directed silencing of targeted genes.
Characterization of the RNA-binding regions in protein p36 of Heliothis armigera cypovirus 14.	Some proteins of cypovirus (CPV) bind to RNA, probably contributing to the replication of viral genome. However, little is known about whether any protein from Heliothis armigera cypovirus (HaCPV) could bind to RNA. In this study, we cloned the ORF of segment 9 (S9) of HaCPV, serotype 14, into pMAL-c2X for the generation and purification of maltose binding protein (MBP) fused protein p36 (MBP-p36). The analysis of the RNA-binding properties of MBP-p36 revealed that p36, but not MBP alone, bound to ssRNA of CPV. Furthermore, the ssRNA-binding activities of p36 were significantly inhibited or completely eliminated by protein denaturants or unsuitable concentrations of NaCl. Importantly, the formation of ssRNA/p36 was only competitively inhibited by a heavy dose of competitive non-viral ssRNA or dsRNA, but not by ssDNA and dsDNA, suggesting that p36 bound to both ssRNA and dsRNA, but not DNA. Moreover, the characterization of different mutants of p36 revealed that the regions 1-26aa, 154-170aa, and 229-238aa, but not region 291-320aa, may be crucial for the ssRNA-binding ability of p36. Conceivably, the sensitivity of p36 to denaturants and the synergetic effect of different regions suggest that the RNA-binding ability of p36 may be conformation-dependent. Thus, our findings provide new insights into understanding the genomic function of HaCPV-14.
Functional characterization of a glycine-rich RNA-binding protein 2 in Arabidopsis thaliana under abiotic stress conditions.	Although glycine-rich RNA-binding protein 2 (GRP2) has been implicated in plant responses to environmental stresses, the function and importance of GRP2 in stress responses are largely unknown. Here, we examined the functional roles of GRP2 in Arabidopsis thaliana under high-salinity, cold or osmotic stress. GRP2 affects seed germination of Arabidopsis plants under salt stress, but does not influence seed germination and seedling growth of Arabidopsis plants under osmotic stress. GRP2 accelerates seed germination and seedling growth in Arabidopsis plants under cold stress, and contributes to enhancement of cold and freezing tolerance in Arabidopsis plants. No differences in germination between the wild-type and transgenic plants were observed following addition of abscisic acid (ABA) or glucose, implying that GRP2 affects germination through an ABA-independent pathway. GRP2 complements the cold sensitivity of an Escherichia coli BX04 mutant and exhibits transcription anti-termination activity, suggesting that it has an RNA chaperone activity during the cold adaptation process. Mitochondrial respiration and catalase and peroxidase activities were affected by expression of mitochondrial-localized GRP2 in Arabidopsis plants under cold stress. Proteome analysis revealed that expression of several mitochondrial-encoded genes was modulated by GRP2 under cold stress. These results provide new evidence indicating that GRP2 plays important roles in seed germination, seedling growth and freezing tolerance of Arabidopsis under stress conditions, and that GRP2 exerts its function by modulating the expression and activity of various classes of genes.
Structure of the SARS coronavirus nucleocapsid protein RNA-binding dimerization domain suggests a mechanism for helical packaging of viral RNA.	Coronavirus nucleocapsid proteins are basic proteins that encapsulate viral genomic RNA to form part of the virus structure. The nucleocapsid protein of SARS-CoV is highly antigenic and associated with several host-cell interactions. Our previous studies using nuclear magnetic resonance revealed the domain organization of the SARS-CoV nucleocapsid protein. RNA has been shown to bind to the N-terminal domain (NTD), although recently the C-terminal half of the protein has also been implicated in RNA binding. Here, we report that the C-terminal domain (CTD), spanning residues 248-365 (NP248-365), had stronger nucleic acid-binding activity than the NTD. To determine the molecular basis of this activity, we have also solved the crystal structure of the NP248-365 region. Residues 248-280 form a positively charged groove similar to that found in the infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) nucleocapsid protein. Furthermore, the positively charged surface area is larger in the SARS-CoV construct than in the IBV. Interactions between residues 248-280 and the rest of the molecule also stabilize the formation of an octamer in the asymmetric unit. Packing of the octamers in the crystal forms two parallel, basic helical grooves, which may be oligonucleotide attachment sites, and suggests a mechanism for helical RNA packaging in the virus.
The SMN complex: an assembly machine for RNPs.	In eukaryotic cells, the biogenesis of spliceosomal small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs) and likely other RNPs is mediated by an assemblyosome, the survival of motor neurons (SMN) complex. The SMN complex, composed of SMN and the Gemins (2-7), binds to the Sm proteins and to snRNAs and constructs the heptameric rings, the common cores of Sm proteins, on the Sm site (AU(56)G) of the snRNAs. We have determined the specific sequence and structural features of snRNAs for binding to the SMN complex and Sm core assembly. The minimal SMN complex-binding domain in snRNAs (except U1) is composed of an Sm site and a closely adjacent 3'stem-loop. Remarkably, the specific sequence of the stemloop is not important for SMN complex binding, but it must be located within a short distance of the 3'end of the RNA for an Sm core to assemble. This minimal snRNA-defining "snRNP code" is recognized by the SMN complex, which binds to it directly and with high affinity and assembles the Sm core. The recognition of the snRNAs is provided by Gemin5, a component of the SMN complex that directly binds the snRNP code. Gemin5 is a novel RNA-binding protein that is critical for snRNP biogenesis. Thus, the SMN complex is the identifier, as well as assembler, of the abundant class of snRNAs in cells. The function of the SMN complex, previously unanticipated because RNP biogenesis was believed to occur by self-assembly, confers stringent specificity on otherwise potentially illicit RNA-protein interactions.
Developing global insight into RNA regulation.	Systematic dissection of the activity of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) has begun to yield global insight into how they work. The paradigm we have used has been the study of Nova, a neuron-specific RBP targeted in an autoimmune neurologic disorder associated with cancer. We have developed a combination of biochemical, genetic, and bioinformatic methods to generate a global understanding of Nova's role as a splicing regulator. Genome-wide identification and validation of Nova target RNAs have yielded unexpected insights into the protein's mechanism of action, its role in neurobiology, and the unique roles RBPs have in the biology of the neuronal synapse. These studies provide us with a paradigm for understanding the role of RBPs in neurons and in disease and, more generally, with the hope that it will be feasible to develop a comprehensive understanding of posttranscriptional regulation.
Role of the RRM domain in the activity, structure and stability of poly(A)-specific ribonuclease.	Poly(A) specific ribonuclease (PARN), which contains a catalytic domain and two RNA-binding domains (R3H and RRM), acts as a key enzyme in eukaryotic organisms to regulate the stability of mRNA by degrading the 3' poly-(A) tail. In this research, the activity, structure and stability were compared between the full-length 74kDa PARN, the proteolytic 54kDa fragment with half of the RRM, and a truncated 46kDa form completely missing the RRM. The results indicated that the 46kDa one had the lowest activity and substrate binding affinity, the most hydrophobic exposure in the native state and the least stability upon denaturation. The dissimilarity in the activity, structure and stability of the three PARNs revealed that the entire RRM domain not only contributed to the substrate binding and efficient catalysis of PARN, but also stabilized the overall structures of the protein. Spectroscopic experiments suggested that the RRM domain might be structurally adjacent to the R3H domain, and thus provide a basis for the cooperative binding of poly(A) by the two RNA-binding domains as well as the catalytic domain.
Analysis of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae exosome architecture and of the RNA binding activity of Rrp40p.	The exosome is a complex of eleven subunits in yeast, involved in RNA processing and degradation. Despite the extensive in vivo functional studies of the exosome, little information is yet available on the structure of the complex and on the RNase and RNA binding activities of the individual subunits. The current model for the exosome structure predicts the formation of a heterohexameric RNase PH ring, bound on one side by RNA binding subunits, and on the opposite side by hydrolytic RNase subunits. Here, we report protein-protein interactions within the exosome, confirming the predictions of constituents of the RNase PH ring, and show some possible interaction interfaces between the other subunits. We also show evidence that Rrp40p can bind RNA in vitro, as predicted by sequence analysis.
Molecular cloning and functional expression of bovine deoxyhypusine hydroxylase cDNA and homologs.	Deoxyhypusine hydroxylase is the second of the two enzymes that catalyzes the maturation of eukaryotic initiation factor 5A (eIF5A). The mature eIF5A is the only known protein in eukaryotic cells that contains the unusual amino acid hypusine (N(epsilon)-(4-amino-2(R)-hydroxybutyl)lysine). Synthesis of hypusine is essential for the function of eIF5A in eukaryotic cell proliferation and survival. Here, we describe the cloning and characterization of bovine deoxyhypusine hydroxylase cDNA and its homologs. The deduced bovine deoxyhypusine hydroxylase protein is 87% identical to human enzyme and 45% identical to yeast enzyme. The overexpressed enzyme showed activity in catalyzing the hydroxylation of the deoxyhypusine residue in the eIF5A intermediate. An amino acid substitution from Glu 57 to Gly located at one of the four conserved His-Glu (HE) pairs, the potential metal coordination sites, resulted in severe reduction of deoxyhypusine hydroxylase activity. A deletion at the HEAT-repeats 1-3 resulted in complete losses of deoxyhypusine hydroxylase activity.
Structural insights of HutP-mediated regulation of transcription of the hut operon in Bacillus subtilis.	Regulating gene expression directly at the mRNA level represents a novel approach to control cellular processes in all organisms. In this respect, an RNA-binding protein plays a key role by targeting the mRNA to regulate the expression by attenuation or an anti-termination mechanism only in the presence of their cognate ligands. Although many proteins are known to use these mechanisms to regulate the gene expression, no structural insights have been revealed to date to explain how these proteins trigger the conformation for the recognition of RNA. This review describes the activated conformation of HutP, brought by the coordination of L-histidine and Mg(2+) ions, based on our recently solved crystal structures [uncomplexed HutP, HutP-Mg(2+), HutP-L-histidine, HutP-Mg(2+)-L-histidine, HutP-Mg(2+)-L-histidine-RNA]. Once the HutP is activated, the protein binds specifically to bases within the terminator region, without undergoing further structural rearrangement. Also, a high resolution (1.48 A) crystal structure of the quaternary complex containing the three GAG motifs is presented. This analysis clearly demonstrates that the first base in the UAG motifs is not important for the function and is consistent with our previous observations.
HEXIM1 is a promiscuous double-stranded RNA-binding protein and interacts with RNAs in addition to 7SK in cultured cells.	P-TEFb regulates eukaryotic gene expression at the level of transcription elongation, and is itself controlled by the reversible association of 7SK RNA and an RNA-binding protein HEXIM1 or HEXIM2. In an effort to determine the minimal region of 7SK needed to interact with HEXIM1 in vitro, we found that an oligo comprised of nucleotides 10-48 sufficed. A bid to further narrow down the minimal region of 7SK led to a surprising finding that HEXIM1 binds to double-stranded RNA in a sequence-independent manner. Both dsRNA and 7SK (10-48), but not dsDNA, competed efficiently with full-length 7SK for HEXIM1 binding in vitro. Upon binding dsRNA, a large conformational change was observed in HEXIM1 that allowed the recruitment and inhibition of P-TEFb. Both subcellular fractionation and immunofluorescence demonstrated that, while most HEXIM1 is found in the nucleus, a significant fraction is found in the cytoplasm. Immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that both nuclear and cytoplasmic HEXIM1 is associated with RNA. Interestingly, the one microRNA examined (mir-16) was found in HEXIM1 immunoprecipitates, while the small nuclear RNAs, U6 and U2, were not. Our study illuminates novel properties of HEXIM1 both in vitro and in vivo, and suggests that HEXIM1 may be involved in other nuclear and cytoplasmic processes besides controlling P-TEFb.
Structure probing of tmRNA in distinct stages of trans-translation.	Ribosomes stalled on problematic mRNAs in bacterial cells can be rescued by transfer-messenger RNA (tmRNA), its helper protein (small protein B, SmpB), and elongation factor Tu (EF-Tu) through a mechanism called trans-translation. In this work we used lead(II) footprinting to probe the interactions of tmRNA with SmpB and other components of the translation machinery at different steps of the trans-translation cycle. Ribosomes with a short nascent peptide stalled on a truncated mRNA were reacted with Ala-tmRNA*EF-Tu*GTP, SmpB, and other translation components to initiate and execute trans-translation. Free tmRNA was probed with lead(II) acetate with and without SmpB, and ribosome bound tmRNA was probed in one of four different trans-translation states stabilized by antibiotic addition or selective exclusion of translation components. For comparison, we also analyzed lead(II) cleavage patterns of tmRNA in vivo in a wild-type as well as in an SmpB-deficient Escherichia coli strain. We observed some specific cleavages/protections in tmRNA for the individual steps of trans-translation, but the overall tmRNA conformation appeared to be similar in the stages analyzed. Our findings suggest that, in vivo, a dominant fraction of tmRNA is in complex with SmpB and that, in vitro, SmpB remains tmRNA bound at the initial steps of trans-translation.
NXF2 is involved in cytoplasmic mRNA dynamics through interactions with motor proteins.	Tap/NXF1, the founding member of the evolutionarily conserved NXF (Nuclear RNA export Factor) family of proteins, is required for the nuclear export of bulk poly(A)+ RNAs. In mice, three additional NXF family genes (NXF2, NXF3, NXF7) have been identified and characterized to date. Cumulative data suggest that NXF family members play roles, not only in nuclear mRNA export, but also in various aspects of post-transcriptional mRNA metabolism. In order to better understand the functional role of NXF2, we searched for its binding partners by yeast two-hybrid screening and identified several cytoplasmic motor proteins, including KIF17. The interaction of NXF2 with KIF17, which was confirmed by GST pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation assays, is mediated by the N-terminal domain of NXF2, which is required for the punctate localization patterns in dendrites of primary neurons. We also found that the NXF2-containing dendritic granules, which were co-localized with KIF17, mRNA and Staufen1, a known component of neuronal mRNA granules, moved bidirectionally along dendrites in a microtubule-dependent manner. These results suggest that NXF2, a nucleo-cytoplasmic mRNA transporter, plays additional roles in the cytoplasmic localization of mRNAs through interactions with cytoplasmic motor proteins.
Immunoprecipitation of mRNA-protein complexes.	Immunoprecipitation of mRNA-protein complexes is a method that can be used to study RNA binding protein (RBP)-RNA interactions. In this protocol, an antibody targeting an RBP of interest is used to immunoprecipitate the RBP and any interacting molecules from a cell lysate. Reverse transcription followed by PCR is then used to identify individual mRNAs isolated with the RBP. This method focuses on examining an association between a specific RBP-mRNA complex, and it is best suited for a small scale screening of known or putative binding partners. It can also be used as a second, independent method to verify RBP-mRNA interactions discovered through more universal screening techniques. We describe the immunoprecipitation protocol in practical detail and discuss variations of the method as well as issues associated with it. The procedure takes three days to complete.
Isolation of specific RNA-binding proteins using the streptomycin-binding RNA aptamer.	Here we report a simple and cheap one-step affinity purification protocol for isolating RNAs or proteins that interact with selected functional RNAs. The streptomycin-binding aptamer, termed 'StreptoTag,' is embedded in or fused to either end of any RNA of interest. The resulting hybrid RNA can then be immobilized on a streptomycin affinity matrix. When a complex protein mixture or total cellular lysate is applied to the matrix, subsequent elution with free streptomycin allows efficient recovery of specific ribonucleoprotein or RNA-RNA complexes. The method was successfully used to purify yeast and phage RNA-binding proteins and group II intron, viral and bacterial noncoding RNA (ncRNA)-binding proteins. The selective enrichment of bacterial mRNAs that bind ncRNAs has also been demonstrated. Once the affinity matrix, the RNA construct and the protein extracts have been prepared, the experimental procedure can be performed in 1-2 h.
Crystal structure of the third KH domain of human poly(C)-binding protein-2 in complex with a C-rich strand of human telomeric DNA at 1.6 A resolution.	KH (hnRNP K homology) domains, consisting of approximately 70 amino acid residues, are present in a variety of nucleic-acid-binding proteins. Among these are poly(C)-binding proteins (PCBPs), which are important regulators of mRNA stability and posttranscriptional regulation in general. All PCBPs contain three different KH domains and recognize poly(C)-sequences with high affinity and specificity. To reveal the molecular basis of poly(C)-sequence recognition, we have determined the crystal structure, at 1.6 A resolution, of PCBP2 KH3 domain in complex with a 7-nt DNA sequence (5'-AACCCTA-3') corresponding to one repeat of the C-rich strand of human telomeric DNA. The domain assumes a type-I KH fold in a betaalphaalphabetabetaalpha configuration. The protein-DNA interface could be studied in unprecedented detail and is made up of a series of direct and water-mediated hydrogen bonds between the protein and the DNA, revealing an especially dense network involving several structural water molecules for the last 2 nt in the core recognition sequence. Unlike published KH domain structures, the protein crystallizes without protein-protein contacts, yielding new insights into the dimerization properties of different KH domains. A nucleotide platform, an interesting feature found in some RNA molecules, was identified, evidently for the first time in DNA.
Nuclear export of ribosomal 60S subunits by the general mRNA export receptor Mex67-Mtr2.	The yeast Mex67-Mtr2 complex and its homologous metazoan counterpart TAP-p15 operate as nuclear export receptors by binding and translocating mRNA through the nuclear pore complexes. Here, we show how Mex67-Mtr2 can also function in the nuclear export of the ribosomal 60S subunit. Biochemical and genetic studies reveal a previously unrecognized interaction surface on the NTF2-like scaffold of the Mex67-Mtr2 heterodimer, which in vivo binds to pre-60S particles and in vitro can interact with 5S rRNA. Crucial structural requirements for this binding platform are loop insertions in the middle domain of Mex67 and Mtr2, which are absent from human TAP-p15. Notably, when the positively charged amino acids in the Mex67 loop are mutated, interaction of Mex67-Mtr2 with pre-60S particles and 5S rRNA is inhibited, and 60S subunits, but not mRNA, accumulate in the nucleus. Thus, the general mRNA exporter Mex67-Mtr2 contains a distinct electrostatic interaction surface for transporting 60S preribosomal cargo.
PRI-Modeler: extracting RNA structural elements from PDB files of protein-RNA complexes.	A complete understanding of protein and RNA structures and their interactions is important for determining the binding sites in protein-RNA complexes. Computational approaches exist for identifying secondary structural elements in proteins from atomic coordinates. However, similar methods have not been developed for RNA, due in part to the very limited structural data so far available. We have developed a set of algorithms for extracting and visualizing secondary and tertiary structures of RNA and for analyzing protein-RNA complexes. These algorithms have been implemented in a web-based program called PRI-Modeler (protein-RNA interaction modeler). Given one or more protein data bank files of protein-RNA complexes, PRI-Modeler analyzes the conformation of the RNA, calculates the hydrogen bond (H bond) and van der Waals interactions between amino acids and nucleotides, extracts secondary and tertiary RNA structure elements, and identifies the patterns of interactions between the proteins and RNAs. This paper presents PRI-Modeler and its application to the hydrogen bond and van der Waals interactions in the most representative set of protein-RNA complexes. The analysis reveals several interesting interaction patterns at various levels. The information provided by PRI-Modeler should prove useful for determining the binding sites in protein-RNA complexes. PRI-Modeler is accessible at http://wilab.inha.ac.kr/primodeler/, and supplementary materials are available in the analysis results section at http://wilab.inha.ac.kr/primodeler/.
The structure of the C-terminal KH domains of KSRP reveals a noncanonical motif important for mRNA degradation.	The AU-rich element (ARE) RNA-binding protein KSRP (K-homology splicing regulator protein) contains four KH domains and promotes the degradation of specific mRNAs that encode proteins with functions in cellular proliferation and inflammatory response. The fourth KH domain (KH4) is essential for mRNA recognition and decay but requires the third KH domain (KH3) for its function. We show that KH3 and KH4 behave as independent binding modules and can interact with different regions of the AU-rich RNA targets of KSRP. This provides KSRP with the structural flexibility needed to recognize a set of different targets in the context of their 3'UTR structural settings. Surprisingly, we find that KH4 binds to its target AREs with lower affinity than KH3 and that KSRP's mRNA binding, and mRNA degradation activities are closely associated with a conserved structural element of KH4.
Phosphorylation of serine-arginine rich proteins--pleiotropic effect of one type posttranslational modification]	SR proteins are components of the spliceosome, a dynamic complex catalysing removal of pre-mRNA introns during splicing reaction. Recent studies have shown additional functions for SR proteins in mRNA transport and translation. Several protein kinases have been identified that can phosphorylate SR proteins. Phosphorylation is a common posttranslational modification among proteins. However in the case of SR proteins it has got a special meaning. Phosphorylation of serine residues clustered in a narrow area of RS domains affects all aspects of SR proteins functions. It influences subcellular localization and determines process in which the proteins take part.
Alteration of expression of muscle specific isoforms of the fragile X related protein 1 (FXR1P) in facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy patients.	The Fragile X Mental retardation-Related 1 (FXR1) gene belongs to the fragile X related family, that also includes the Fragile X Mental Retardation (FMR1) gene involved in fragile X syndrome, the most common form of inherited mental retardation. While the absence of FMRP impairs cognitive functions, inactivation of FXR1 has been reported to have drastic effects in mouse and xenopus myogenesis. Seven alternatively spliced FXR1 mRNA variants have been identified, three of them being muscle specific. Interestingly, they encode FXR1P isoforms displaying selective RNA binding properties.
Structure of a construct of a human poly(C)-binding protein containing the first and second KH domains reveals insights into its regulatory mechanisms.	Poly(C)-binding proteins (PCBPs) are important regulatory proteins that contain three KH (hnRNP K homology) domains. Binding poly(C) D/RNA sequences via KH domains is essential for multiple PCBP functions. To reveal the basis for PCBP-D/RNA interactions and function, we determined the structure of a construct containing the first two domains (KH1-KH2) of human PCBP2 by NMR. KH1 and KH2 form an intramolecular pseudodimer. The large hydrophobic dimerization surface of each KH domain is on the side opposite the D/RNA binding interface. Chemical shift mapping indicates both domains bind poly(C) DNA motifs without disrupting the KH1-KH2 interaction. Spectral comparison of KH1-KH2, KH3, and full-length PCBP2 constructs suggests that the KH1-KH2 pseudodimer forms, but KH3 does not interact with other parts of the protein. From NMR studies and modeling, we propose possible modes of cooperative binding tandem poly(C) motifs by the KH domains. D/RNA binding may induce pseudodimer dissociation or stabilize dissociated KH1 and KH2, making protein interaction surfaces available to PCBP-binding partners. This conformational change may represent a regulatory mechanism linking D/RNA binding to PCBP functions.
Abscisic acid does not influence the subcellular distribution of the HYL1 protein from Arabidopsis thaliana.	HYL1 is a nuclear protein involved in the processing of miRNAs but its exact function remains unknown. Arabidopsis thaliana hyl1 mutants exhibit hypersensitivity to ABA. We decided to answer the question whether ABA affects the HYL1 protein localization within the cell and show that it does not. We also studied the expression of HYL1 in different tissues and organs. In this paper we show for the first time the expression profile of the HYL1 protein using anti-HYL1 antibodies. The protein is present in seedlings and mature plants in all organs studied, with the highest amount in inflorescences. A. thaliana HYL1 protein has several repetitions of a 28-amino-acid sequence at the C-terminus that confer protein instability. Our bioinformatic analysis of HYL1 homologs in different Brassica species shows that this repetition is typical only for Arabidopsis. This may suggest a relatively late evolutionary acquisition of the C-terminal domain.
Poly(A)-binding protein-interacting protein 1 binds to eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 to stimulate translation.	Poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) stimulates translation initiation by binding simultaneously to the mRNA poly(A) tail and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4G (eIF4G). PABP activity is regulated by PABP-interacting (Paip) proteins. Paip1 binds PABP and stimulates translation by an unknown mechanism. Here, we describe the interaction between Paip1 and eIF3, which is direct, RNA independent, and mediated via the eIF3g (p44) subunit. Stimulation of translation by Paip1 in vivo was decreased upon deletion of the N-terminal sequence containing the eIF3-binding domain and upon silencing of PABP or several eIF3 subunits. We also show the formation of ternary complexes composed of Paip1-PABP-eIF4G and Paip1-eIF3-eIF4G. Taken together, these data demonstrate that the eIF3-Paip1 interaction promotes translation. We propose that eIF3-Paip1 stabilizes the interaction between PABP and eIF4G, which brings about the circularization of the mRNA.
Evolutionary conservation supports ancient origin for Nudt16, a nuclear-localized, RNA-binding, RNA-decapping enzyme.	Nudt16p is a nuclear RNA decapping protein initially identified in Xenopus (X29) and known to exist in mammals. Here, we identified putative orthologs in 57 different organisms ranging from humans to Cnidaria (anemone/coral). In vitro analysis demonstrated the insect ortholog can bind RNA and hydrolyze the m(7)G cap from the 5'-end of RNAs indicating the Nudt16 gene product is functionally conserved across metazoans. This study also identified a closely related paralogous protein, known as Syndesmos, which resulted from a gene duplication that occurred in the tetrapod lineage near the amniote divergence. While vertebrate Nudt16p is a nuclear RNA decapping protein, Syndesmos is associated with the cytoplasmic membrane in tetrapods. Syndesmos is inactive for RNA decapping but retains RNA-binding activity. This structure/function analysis demonstrates evolutionary conservation of the ancient Nudt16 protein suggesting the existence and maintenance of a nuclear RNA degradation pathway in metazoans.
RBM5/Luca-15/H37 regulates Fas alternative splice site pairing after exon definition.	RBM5/Luca-15/H37 is a gene frequently inactivated in lung cancers and overexpressed in breast tumors. Its protein product has been detected in prespliceosomal complexes and modulates cell proliferation and Fas-mediated apoptosis. We report that RBM5 is a component of complexes involved in 3' splice site recognition and regulates alternative splicing of apoptosis-related genes, including the Fas receptor, switching between isoforms with antagonistic functions in programmed cell death. In contrast with classical mechanisms of splicing regulation, RBM5 does not affect early events of splice site recognition that lead to Fas exon 6 definition. Instead, RBM5 inhibits the transition between prespliceosomal complexes assembled around exon 6 to mature spliceosomes assembled on the flanking introns and promotes sequence-specific pairing of the distal splice sites. An OCRE domain important for RBM5 function contacts components of the U4/5/6 tri-snRNP, consistent with the idea that RBM5 modulates splice site pairing after prespliceosome assembly and exon definition.
Phosphorylated HuR shuttles in cycles.	HuR is a ubiquitous RNA-binding protein (RBP) that associates with many mRNAs encoding proliferative proteins. Although predominantly nuclear, HuR translocation to the cytoplasm is linked to its ability to stabilize target mRNAs and modulate their translation. We recently reported that HuR phosphorylation by Cdk1 at S202 (within the HuR hinge region that is necessary for nucleocytoplasmic shuttle) increases HuR association with 14-3-3 and contributes to its nuclear retention. In the next issue of Cell Cycle we report that residue S242 also regulates HuR's cytoplasmic localization, influences cyclin expression, and modulates cell proliferation. Together with evidence of other post-translational HuR modifications, we propose that HuR phosphorylation ensures the timely mobilization of HuR across the nuclear envelope. In this manner, HuR helps to schedule gene expression programs in a cell cycle-dependent manner.
Extensive association of HuR with hnRNP proteins within immunoselected hnRNP and mRNP complexes.	Regulated gene expression at the post-transcriptional level in higher eukaryotes is based on a network of interactions among RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) operating within multifactorial ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes, notably heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) and mRNP complexes. We are interested in interactions involving hnRNP proteins participating in several steps of mRNA processing (mainly pre-mRNA splicing) and HuR with an established role in stability/translation of associated mRNAs. hnRNP and HuR proteins have a major nucleoplasmic localization and ability to shuttle between nucleus and cytoplasm. We report here on interactions between hnRNP and HuR proteins that were identified in the context of isolated hnRNP and mRNP complexes. This was done by the application of immunoprecipitation and pull-down assays on different sub-cellular fractions prepared from cells of human and mouse origin, as well as in vivo localization studies. A range of specific associations of HuR with the shuttling hnRNP A1 and A3 and the non-shuttling hnRNP C1/C2 was identified and ascribed discrete properties with respect to stability to RNase A and increasing salt, as well as to cellular distribution. The likelihood of a biological relevance of these associations was tested under heat shock conditions in growing cells, which appeared to affect both the sub-nuclear distribution and interaction of HuR with hnRNPs. The establishment of an extensive association of HuR with hnRNP components of nuclear hnRNP/mRNP and cytoplasmic mRNP complexes supports its broader participation in mRNA processing events than initially anticipated.
Increase in backbone mobility of the VTS1p-SAM domain on binding to SRE-RNA.	The sterile alpha motif (SAM) domain of VTS1p, a posttranscriptional gene regulator, belongs to a family of SAM domains conserved from yeast to humans. Even though SAM domains were originally classified as protein-protein interaction domains, recently, it was shown that the yeast VTS1p-SAM and the SAM domain of its Drosophila homolog Smaug can specifically recognize RNA hairpins termed Smaug recognition element (SRE). Structural studies of the SRE-RNA complex of VTS1p-SAM revealed that the SAM domain primarily recognizes the shape of the RNA fold induced by the Watson-Crick base-pairing in the RNA pentaloop. Only the central G nucleotide is specifically recognized. The VTS1p-SAM domain recognizes SRE-RNAs with a CNGGN pentaloop where N is any nucleotide. The C1-G4 base pair in the wild type can be replaced by any pair of nucleotides that can form base pairs even though the binding affinity is greatest with a pyrimidine in position 1 and a purine in position 4. The interaction thus combines elements of sequence-specific and non-sequence-specific recognitions. The lack of structural rearrangements in either partner following binding is rather intriguing, suggesting that molecular dynamics may play an important role in imparting relaxed specificity with respect to the exact combination of nucleotides in the loop, except for the central nucleotide. In this work, we extend our previous studies of SRE-RNA interaction with VTS1p, by comparing the dynamics of the VTS1p-SAM domain both in its free form and when bound to SRE-RNA. The 15N relaxation studies of backbone dynamics suggest the presence of a dynamic interaction interface, with residues associated with specific G3 recognition becoming more rigid on RNA binding while other regions attain increased flexibility. The results parallel the observations from our studies of dynamics changes in SRE-RNA upon binding to VTS1p-SAM and shows that molecular dynamics could play a crucial role in modulating binding affinity and possibly contribute to the free energy of the interaction through an entropy-driven mechanism.
Structural insights into RNA interference.	Virtually all animals and plants utilize small RNA molecules to control protein expression during different developmental stages and in response to viral infection. Structural and mechanistic studies have begun to illuminate three fundamental aspects of these pathways: small RNA biogenesis, formation of RNA-induced silencing complexes (RISCs), and targeting of complementary mRNAs. Here we review exciting recent progress in understanding how regulatory RNAs are produced and how they trigger specific destruction of mRNAs during RNA interference (RNAi).
Molecular mechanisms that funnel RNA precursors into endogenous small-interfering RNA and microRNA biogenesis pathways in Drosophila.	In Drosophila, three types of endogenous small RNAs-microRNAs (miRNAs), PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs), and endogenous small-interfering RNAs (endo-siRNAs or esiRNAs)-function as triggers in RNA silencing. Although piRNAs are produced independently of Dicer, miRNA and esiRNA biogenesis pathways require Dicer1 and Dicer2, respectively. Recent studies have shown that among the four isoforms of Loquacious (Loqs), Loqs-PB and Loqs-PD are involved in miRNA and esiRNA processing pathways, respectively. However, how these Loqs isoforms function in their respective small RNA biogenesis pathways remains elusive. Here, we show that Loqs-PD associates specifically with Dicer2 through its C-terminal domain. The Dicer2-Loqs-PD complex contains R2D2, another known Dicer2 partner, and excises both exogenous siRNAs and esiRNAs from their corresponding precursors in vitro. However, Loqs-PD, but not R2D2, enhanced Dicer2 activity. The Dicer2-Loqs-PD complex processes esiRNA precursor hairpins with long stems, which results in the production of AGO2-associated small RNAs. Interestingly, however, small RNAs derived from terminal hairpins of esiRNA precursors are loaded onto AGO1; thus, they are classified as a new subset of miRNAs. These results suggest that the precursor RNA structure determines the biogenesis mechanism of esiRNAs and miRNAs, thereby implicating hairpin structures with long stems as intermediates in the evolution of Drosophila miRNA.
LIN28 alters cell fate succession and acts independently of the let-7 microRNA during neurogliogenesis in vitro.	LIN28 is an RNA-binding protein that is expressed in many developing tissues. It can block let-7 (Mirlet7) microRNA processing and help promote pluripotency. We have observed LIN28 expression in the developing mouse neural tube, colocalizing with SOX2, suggesting a role in neural development. To better understand its normal developmental function, we investigated LIN28 activity during neurogliogenesis in vitro, where the succession of neuronal to glial cell fates occurs as it does in vivo. LIN28 expression was high in undifferentiated cells, and was downregulated rapidly upon differentiation. Constitutive LIN28 expression caused a complete block of gliogenesis and an increase in neurogenesis. LIN28 expression was compatible with neuronal differentiation and did not increase proliferation. LIN28 caused significant changes in gene expression prior to any effect on let-7, notably on Igf2. Furthermore, a mutant LIN28 that permitted let-7 accumulation was still able to completely block gliogenesis. Thus, at least two biological activities of LIN28 are genetically separable and might involve distinct mechanisms. LIN28 can differentially promote and inhibit specific fates and does not function exclusively by blocking let-7 family microRNAs. Importantly, the role of LIN28 in cell fate succession in vertebrate cells is analogous to its activity as a developmental timing regulator in C. elegans.
A truncated MEF11 protein shows site-specific effects on mitochondrial RNA editing.	RNA editing in flowering plant mitochondria post-transcriptionally alters several hundred nucleotides from C to U, mostly in mRNAs. We recently identified the nuclear encoded gene MEF11 which is involved in RNA editing of three sites in mRNAs coding for subunits of respiratory chain complexes in Arabidopsis thaliana. In the mef11-2 mutant a T-DNA insert alters the C-terminal part of the DYW domain. This insertion blocks RNA editing at sites cox 3-422 and site nad4-124 completely, but only partially at ccb203-344. Transcription analysis shows that RNA editing is not defective due to disturbance of transcripts from the mef11-2 locus. These observations suggest that the enzymatic activity or its recruitment is not compromised by the alteration of the C-terminus of MEF11. 
The structural stability and chaperone activity of artemin, a ferritin homologue from diapause-destined Artemia embryos, depend on different cysteine residues.	Diapause-destined embryos of the crustacean, Artemia franciscana, accumulate large amounts of an oligomeric, heat-stable, molecular chaperone termed artemin, a cysteine-enriched ferritin homologue. In this study, cysteines 22, 61, 166, and 172 of artemin were substituted with alanines, respectively yielding ArtC22A, ArtC61A, ArtC166A, and ArtC172A. Wild-type and modified artemins were synthesized in transformed bacteria and purified. As measured by heat-induced denaturation of citrate synthase in vitro, each substitution reduced chaperone activity, with ArtC172A the least active. Protein modeling indicated that C172 is close to a region of surface hydrophobicity, also present in ferritin, suggesting that this site contributes to chaperone activity. Only slight differences in oligomer molecular mass were apparent between artemin variants, but ArtC22A and ArtC61A displayed significantly reduced thermostability, perhaps due to the disruption of an inter-subunit disulphide bridge. In contrast, ArtC172A was thermostable, reflecting the location of C172 on the oligomer surface and that it contributes minimally to artemin stabilization. To our knowledge, this is the initial study of structure/function relationships within a ferritin homologue of importance in diapause and the first to indicate that a defined region of hydrophobicity contributes to artemin and ferritin chaperoning.
RNA folding during transcription: protocols and studies.	RNA folds during transcription in the cell. Compared to most in vitro studies where the focus is generally on Mg(2+)-initiated refolding of fully synthesized transcripts, cotranscriptional RNA folding studies better replicate how RNA folds in a cellular environment. Unique aspects of cotranscriptional folding include the 5'- to 3'-polarity of RNA, the transcriptional speed, pausing properties of the RNA polymerase, the effect of the transcriptional complex and associated factors, and the effect of RNA-binding proteins. Identifying strategic pause sites can reveal insights on the folding pathway of the nascent transcript. Structural mapping of the paused transcription complexes identifies important folding intermediates along these pathways. Oligohybridization assays and the appearance of the catalytic activity of a ribozyme either in trans or in cis can be used to monitor cotranscriptional folding under a wide range of conditions. In our laboratory, these methodologies have been applied to study the folding of three highly conserved RNAs (RNase P, SRP, and tmRNA), several circularly permuted forms of a bacterial RNase P RNA, a riboswitch (thiM), and an aptamer-activated ribozyme (glmS).
Prediction of a new class of RNA recognition motif.	The observation that activation domains (AD) of procarboxypeptidases are rather long compared to the pro-regions of other zymogens raises the possibility that they could play additional roles apart from precluding enzymatic activity within the proenzyme and helping in its folding process. In the present work, we compared the overall pro-domain tertiary structure with several proteins belonging to the same fold in the structural classification of proteins (SCOP) database by using structure and sequence comparisons. The best score obtained was between the activation domain of human procarboxypeptidase A4 (ADA4h) and the human U1A protein from the U1 snRNP. Structural alignment revealed the existence of RNP1- and RNP2-related sequences in ADA4h. After modeling ADA4h on U1A, the new structure was used to extract a new sequence pattern characteristic for important residues at key positions. The new sequence pattern allowed scanning protein sequences to predict the RNA-binding function for 32 sequences undetected by PFAM. Unspecific RNA electrophoretic mobility shift assays experimentally supported the prediction that ADA4h binds an RNA motif similar to the U1A binding-motif of stem-loop II of U1 small nuclear RNA. The experiments carried out with ADA4h in the present work suggest the sharing of a common ancestor with other RNA recognition motifs. However, the fact that key residues preventing activity within the proenzyme are also key residues for RNA binding might have induced the activation domains of procarboxypeptidases to evolve from the canonical RNP1 and RNP2 sequences.
Recognition of transcription termination signal by the nuclear polyadenylated RNA-binding (NAB) 3 protein.	Non-coding RNA polymerase II transcripts are processed by the poly(A)-independent termination pathway that requires the Nrd1 complex. The Nrd1 complex includes two RNA-binding proteins, the nuclear polyadenylated RNA-binding (Nab) 3 and the nuclear pre-mRNA down-regulation (Nrd) 1 that bind their specific termination elements. Here we report the solution structure of the RNA-recognition motif (RRM) of Nab3 in complex with a UCUU oligonucleotide, representing the Nab3 termination element. The structure shows that the first three nucleotides of UCUU are accommodated on the -sheet surface of Nab3 RRM, but reveals a sequence-specific recognition only for the central cytidine and uridine. The specific contacts we identified are important for binding affinity in vitro as well as for yeast viability. Furthermore, we show that both RNA-binding motifs of Nab3 and Nrd1 alone bind their termination elements with a weak affinity. Interestingly, when Nab3 and Nrd1 form a heterodimer, the affinity to RNA is significantly increased due to the cooperative binding. These findings are in accordance with the model of their function in the poly(A) independent termination, in which binding to the combined and/or repetitive termination elements elicits efficient termination.
PUF proteins: repression, activation and mRNA localization.	The eukaryotic family of RNA-binding proteins termed PUF (Pumilio and FBF) is known for its roles in cell division, differentiation and development. The best-characterized function of PUFs is as posttranscriptional repressors. Recent studies have indicated that PUFs can also activate gene expression. Moreover, it is becoming clear that PUFs facilitate mRNA localization for spatial control of expression. Here, we review the emerging concept of PUF proteins as versatile posttranscriptional regulators. We discuss how the functions of PUFs as repressors and mRNA targeting factors could be integrated by focusing on Puf3 and Puf6 from yeast and propose a model for how the roles of Puf3 in mRNA targeting to the mitochondria and mRNA repression might promote cotranslational import into mitochondria and mitochondrial biogenesis.
NP body domain and PB2 contribute to increased virulence of H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses in chickens.	The molecular basis of pathogenicity of H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) viruses in chickens remains largely unknown. H5N1 A/chicken/Yamaguchi/7/2004 virus (CkYM7) replicates rapidly in macrophages and vascular endothelial cells in chickens, causing sudden death without fever or gross lesions, while H5N1 A/duck/Yokohama/aq10/2003 virus (DkYK10) induces high fever, severe gross lesions, and a prolonged time to death, despite the 98% amino acid identity between the two viruses. To explore the molecular basis of this difference in pathogenicity, a series of eight single-gene reassortant viruses from these HPAI viruses were compared for pathogenicity in chickens. Two reassortants possessing the NP or PB2 gene from DkYK10 in the CkYM7 background reduced pathogenicity compared to other reassortants or CkYM7. Inversely, reassortants possessing the NP or PB2 gene of CkYM7 in the DkYK10 background (rgDkYK-PB2(Ck), rgDkYK-NP(Ck)) replicated quickly and reached higher titers than DkYK10, accompanied by more rapid and frequent apoptosis of macrophages. The rgDkYK-NP(Ck) and rgDkYK-PB2(Ck) reassortants also replicated more rapidly in chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEFs) than did rgDkYK10, but replication of these viruses was similar to that of CkYM7 and DkYK10 in duck embryo fibroblasts. A comparison of pathogenicities of seven rgDkYK10 mutants with a single amino acid substitution in NP(Dk) demonstrated that valine at position 105 in the NP(Ck) was responsible for the increased pathogenicity in chickens. NP(Ck), NP(105V), and PB2(Ck) enhanced the polymerase activity of DkYK10 in CEFs. These results indicate that both NP and PB2 contribute to the high pathogenicity of the H5N1 HPAI viruses in chickens, and valine at position 105 of NP may be one of the determinants for adaptation of avian influenza viruses from ducks to chickens.
Structure-based prediction of RNA-binding domains and RNA-binding sites and application to structural genomics targets.	Mechanistic understanding of many key cellular processes often involves identification of RNA binding proteins (RBPs) and RNA binding sites in two separate steps. Here, they are predicted simultaneously by structural alignment to known protein-RNA complex structures followed by binding assessment with a DFIRE-based statistical energy function. This method achieves 98% accuracy and 91% precision for predicting RBPs and 93% accuracy and 78% precision for predicting RNA-binding amino-acid residues for a large benchmark of 212 RNA binding and 6761 non-RNA binding domains (leave-one-out cross-validation). Additional tests revealed that the method makes no false positive prediction from 311 DNA binding domains but correctly detects six domains binding with both DNA and RNA. In addition, it correctly identified 31 of 75 unbound RNA-binding domains with 92% accuracy and 65% precision for predicted binding residues and achieved 86% success rate in its application to SCOP RNA binding domain superfamily (Structural Classification Of Proteins). It further predicts 25 targets as RBPs in 2076 structural genomics targets: 20 of 25 predicted ones (80%) are putatively RNA binding. The superior performance over existing methods indicates the importance of dividing structures into domains, using a Z-score to measure relative structural similarity, and a statistical energy function to measure protein-RNA binding affinity.
Determinants of Nam8-dependent splicing of meiotic pre-mRNAs.	Nam8, a component of yeast U1 snRNP, is optional for mitotic growth but required during meiosis, because Nam8 collaborates with Mer1 to promote splicing of essential meiotic mRNAs AMA1, MER2 and MER3. Here, we identify SPO22 and PCH2 as novel targets of Nam8-dependent meiotic splicing. Whereas SPO22 splicing is co-dependent on Mer1, PCH2 is not. The SPO22 intron has a non-consensus 5' splice site (5'SS) that dictates its Nam8/Mer1-dependence. SPO22 splicing relies on Mer1 recognition, via its KH domain, of an intronic enhancer 5'-AYACCCUY. Mutagenesis of KH and the enhancer highlights Arg214 and Gln243 and the CCC triplet as essential for Mer1 activity. The Nam8-dependent PCH2 pre-mRNA has a consensus 5'SS and lacks a Mer1 enhancer. For PCH2, a long 5' exon and a non-consensus intron branchpoint dictate Nam8-dependence. Our results implicate Nam8 in two distinct meiotic splicing regulons. Nam8 is composed of three RRM domains, flanked by N-terminal leader and C-terminal tail segments. The leader, tail and RRM1 are dispensable for splicing meiotic targets and unnecessary for vegetative Nam8 function in multiple synthetic lethal genetic backgrounds. Nam8 activity is enfeebled by alanine mutations in the putative RNA binding sites of the RRM2 and RRM3 domains.
An intrinsically disordered C terminus allows the La protein to assist the biogenesis of diverse noncoding RNA precursors.	The La protein binds the 3' ends of many newly synthesized noncoding RNAs, protecting these RNAs from nucleases and influencing folding, maturation, and ribonucleoprotein assembly. Although 3' end binding by La involves the N-terminal La domain and adjacent RNA recognition motif (RRM), the mechanisms by which La stabilizes diverse RNAs from nucleases and assists subsequent events in their biogenesis are unknown. Here we report that a conserved feature of La proteins, an intrinsically disordered C terminus, is required for the accumulation of certain noncoding RNA precursors and for the role of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae La protein Lhp1p in assisting formation of correctly folded pre-tRNA anticodon stems in vivo. Footprinting experiments using purified Lhp1p reveal that the C terminus is required to protect a pre-tRNA anticodon stem from chemical modification. Although the C terminus of Lhp1p is hypersensitive to proteases in vitro, it becomes protease-resistant upon binding pre-tRNAs, U6 RNA, or pre-5S rRNA. Thus, while high affinity binding to 3' ends requires the La domain and RRM, a conformationally flexible C terminus allows La to interact productively with a diversity of noncoding RNA precursors. We propose that intrinsically disordered domains adjacent to well characterized RNA-binding motifs in other promiscuous RNA-binding proteins may similarly contribute to the ability of these proteins to influence the cellular fates of multiple distinct RNA targets.
Evolution of RNA-binding proteins in animals: insights from genome-wide analysis in the sponge Amphimedon queenslandica.	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are key players in various biological processes, most notably regulation of gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. Although many RBPs have been carefully studied in model organisms, very few studies have addressed the evolution of these proteins at the scale of the animal kingdom. We identified a large set of putative RBPs encoded by the genome of the demosponge Amphimedon queenslandica, a species representing a basal animal lineage. We compared the Amphimedon RBPs with those encoded by the genomes of two bilaterians (human and Drosophila), representatives of two other basal metazoan lineages (a placozoan and a cnidarian), a choanoflagellate (probable sister group of animals), and two fungi. We established the evolutionary history of 32 families of RBPs and found that most of the diversity of RBPs present in contemporary metazoans, including humans, was already established in the last common ancestor (LCA) of animals. This includes RBPs known to be involved in key processes in bilaterians, such as development, stem and/or germ cells properties, and noncoding RNA pathways. From this analysis, we infer that a complex toolkit of RBPs was present in the LCA of animals and that it has been recruited to perform new functions during early animal evolution, in particular in relation to the acquisition of multicellularity.
Cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase regulates the alternative splicing of tau exon 10: a mechanism involved in tau pathology of Alzheimer disease.	Hyperphosphorylation and deposition of tau into neurofibrillary tangles is a hallmark of Alzheimer disease (AD). Alternative splicing of tau exon 10 generates tau isoforms containing three or four microtubule binding repeats (3R-tau and 4R-tau), which are equally expressed in adult human brain. Dysregulation of exon 10 causes neurofibrillary degeneration. Here, we report that cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, PKA, phosphorylates splicing factor SRSF1, modulates its binding to tau pre-mRNA, and promotes tau exon 10 inclusion in cultured cells and in vivo in rat brain. PKA-C, but not PKA-C, interacts with SRSF1 and elevates SRSF1-mediated tau exon 10 inclusion. In AD brain, the decreased level of PKA-C correlates with the increased level of 3R-tau. These findings suggest that a down-regulation of PKA dysregulates the alternative splicing of tau exon 10 and contributes to neurofibrillary degeneration in AD by causing an imbalance in 3R-tau and 4R-tau expression.
Structural implications into dsRNA binding and RNA silencing suppression by NS3 protein of Rice Hoja Blanca Tenuivirus.	Rice Hoja Blanca Tenuivirus (RHBV), a negative strand RNA virus, has been identified to infect rice and is widely transmitted by the insect vector. NS3 protein encoded by RHBV RNA3 was reported to be a potent RNAi suppressor to counterdefense RNA silencing in plants, insect cells, and mammalian cells. Here, we report the crystal structure of the N-terminal domain of RHBV NS3 (residues 21-114) at 2.0 . RHBV NS3 N-terminal domain forms a dimer by two pairs of -helices in an anti-parallel mode, with one surface harboring a shallow groove at the dimension of 20   30  for putative dsRNA binding. In vitro RNA binding assay and RNA silencing suppression assay have demonstrated that the structural conserved residues located along this shallow groove, such as Arg50, His51, Lys77, and His85, participate in dsRNA binding and RNA silencing suppression. Our results provide the initial structural implications in understanding the RNAi suppression mechanism by RHBV NS3.
Co-transcriptional architecture in a Y loop in Drosophila melanogaster.	The Y loops of Drosophila spermatocytes are formed by the expression of huge individual transcription units on the Y chromosome and their large size provides a unique system for the investigation of the organisation of transcription in intact nuclei. By labelling ribonucleo-protein (RNP) components, the loop chromatin and nascent transcripts in Y loop C, we reveal a highly structured organisation of RNP domains associated with nascent transcripts. We distinguish two types of RNP domain, a proximal domain that runs alongside the chromatin of loop C and a distal RNP domain that wraps around the proximal domain and the loop chromatin. The proximal domain is marked by the Pasilla protein, and separate distal subdomains are marked by the S5 antigen and Boule. We discuss the implications of this highly structured co-transcriptional architecture for the organisation of the process of transcription.
Specific and modular binding code for cytosine recognition in Pumilio/FBF (PUF) RNA-binding domains.	Pumilio/fem-3 mRNA-binding factor (PUF) proteins possess a recognition code for bases A, U, and G, allowing designed RNA sequence specificity of their modular Pumilio (PUM) repeats. However, recognition side chains in a PUM repeat for cytosine are unknown. Here we report identification of a cytosine-recognition code by screening random amino acid combinations at conserved RNA recognition positions using a yeast three-hybrid system. This C-recognition code is specific and modular as specificity can be transferred to different positions in the RNA recognition sequence. A crystal structure of a modified PUF domain reveals specific contacts between an arginine side chain and the cytosine base. We applied the C-recognition code to design PUF domains that recognize targets with multiple cytosines and to generate engineered splicing factors that modulate alternative splicing. Finally, we identified a divergent yeast PUF protein, Nop9p, that may recognize natural target RNAs with cytosine. This work deepens our understanding of natural PUF protein target recognition and expands the ability to engineer PUF domains to recognize any RNA sequence.
RNA folding with soft constraints: reconciliation of probing data and thermodynamic secondary structure prediction.	Thermodynamic folding algorithms and structure probing experiments are commonly used to determine the secondary structure of RNAs. Here we propose a formal framework to reconcile information from both prediction algorithms and probing experiments. The thermodynamic energy parameters are adjusted using 'pseudo-energies' to minimize the discrepancy between prediction and experiment. Our framework differs from related approaches that used pseudo-energies in several key aspects. (i) The energy model is only changed when necessary and no adjustments are made if prediction and experiment are consistent. (ii) Pseudo-energies remain biophysically interpretable and hold positional information where experiment and model disagree. (iii) The whole thermodynamic ensemble of structures is considered thus allowing to reconstruct mixtures of suboptimal structures from seemingly contradicting data. (iv) The noise of the energy model and the experimental data is explicitly modeled leading to an intuitive weighting factor through which the problem can be seen as folding with 'soft' constraints of different strength. We present an efficient algorithm to iteratively calculate pseudo-energies within this framework and demonstrate how this approach can be used in combination with SHAPE chemical probing data to improve secondary structure prediction. We further demonstrate that the pseudo-energies correlate with biophysical effects that are known to affect RNA folding such as chemical nucleotide modifications and protein binding.
Structure-function analysis and genetic interactions of the yeast branchpoint binding protein Msl5.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae Msl5 (branchpoint binding protein) orchestrates spliceosome assembly by binding the branchpoint sequence 5'-UACUAAC and establishing cross intron-bridging interactions with other components of the splicing machinery. Reciprocal tandem affinity purifications verify that Msl5 exists in vivo as a heterodimer with Mud2 and that the Msl5-Mud2 complex is associated with the U1 snRNP. By gauging the ability of mutants of Msl5 to complement msl5, we find that the Mud2-binding (amino acids 35-54) and putative Prp40-binding (PPxY(100)) elements of the Msl5 N-terminal domain are inessential, as are the C-terminal proline-rich domain (amino acids 382-476) and two zinc-binding CxxCxxxxHxxxxC motifs (amino acids 273-286 and 299-312). A subset of conserved branchpoint RNA-binding amino acids in the central KH-QUA2 domain (amino acids 146-269) are essential pairwise (Ile198-Arg190; Leu256-Leu259) or in trios (Leu169-Arg172-Leu176), whereas other pairs of RNA-binding residues are dispensable. We used our collection of viable Msl5 mutants to interrogate synthetic genetic interactions, in cis between the inessential structural elements of the Msl5 polypeptide and in trans between Msl5 and yeast splicing factors (Mud2, Nam8 and Tgs1) that are optional for vegetative growth. The results suggest a network of important but functionally buffered protein-protein and protein-RNA interactions between the Mud2-Msl5 complex at the branchpoint and the U1 snRNP at the 5' splice site.
Characterization of Vibrio cholerae Hfq provides novel insights into the role of the Hfq C-terminal region.	Hfq is a bacterial RNA binding protein that facilitates small RNA-mediated posttranscriptional gene regulation. In Vibrio cholerae, Hfq and four Hfq-dependent small RNAs are essential for the expression of virulence genes, but little is known about this mechanism at the molecular level. To better understand V. cholerae Hfq structure and mechanism, we characterized the protein, alongside Escherichia coli Hfq for comparison, using biochemical and biophysical techniques. The N-terminal domain (NTD) of the two proteins is highly conserved, but the C-terminal regions (CTRs) vary in both sequence and length. Small-angle X-ray scattering studies showed that both proteins adopt a star-shaped hexameric structure in which the conserved NTD adopts the expected Sm fold while the variable CTR is disordered and extends radially outwards from the folded core. Despite their structural similarity, SDS-PAGE stability assays and collision-induced dissociation mass spectrometry revealed that the V. cholerae hexamer is less stable than that of E. coli. We propose that this is due to minor differences between the intersubunit interface formed by the NTDs and the ability of the E. coli CTR to stabilize this interface. However, based on electrophoretic mobility shift assays, the divergent CTRs do appear to perform a common function with regard to RNA-binding specificity. Overall, the similarities and differences in the fundamental properties of V. cholerae and E. coli Hfq provide insight into their assembly and molecular mechanisms.
Dynamics in multi-domain protein recognition of RNA.	Protein-RNA interactions play essential roles in gene regulation and RNA metabolism. While high-resolution structures have revealed principles of RNA recognition by individual RNA binding domains (RBDs), the presence of multiple RBDs in many eukaryotic proteins suggests additional modes of RNA recognition by combination and cooperation of these interactions. Recent structures, together with biochemical and biophysical studies have revealed novel principles of RNA recognition by multi-domain proteins. These examples highlight an important role for dynamics in RNA recognition, with mechanisms including fly-casting and conformational selection, and advocate the use of solution techniques for their analysis.
Crystal structure of elongator subcomplex Elp4-6.	Elongator is a multiprotein complex composed of two subcomplexes, Elp1-3 and Elp4-6. Elongator is highly conserved between yeast and humans and plays an important role in RNA polymerase II-mediated transcriptional elongation and many other processes, including cytoskeleton organization, exocytosis, and tRNA modification. Here, we determined the crystal structure of the Elp4-6 subcomplex of yeast. The overall structure of Elp4-6 revealed that Elp6 acts as a bridge to assemble Elp4 and Elp5. Detailed structural and sequence analyses revealed that each subunit in the Elp4-6 subcomplex forms a RecA-ATPase-like fold, although it lacks the key sequence signature of ATPases. Site-directed mutagenesis and biochemical analyses indicated that the Elp4-6 subcomplex can assemble into a hexameric ring-shaped structure in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, GST pulldown assays showed that the ring-shaped assembly of the Elp4-6 subcomplex is important for its specific histone H3 binding. Our results may shed light on the substrate recognition and assembly of the holo-Elongator complex.
INVOLVED IN DE NOVO 2-containing complex involved in RNA-directed DNA methylation in Arabidopsis.	At least three pathways control maintenance of DNA cytosine methylation in Arabidopsis thaliana. However, the RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM) pathway is solely responsible for establishment of this silencing mark. We previously described INVOLVED IN DE NOVO 2 (IDN2) as being an RNA-binding RdDM component that is required for DNA methylation establishment. In this study, we describe the discovery of two partially redundant proteins that are paralogous to IDN2 and that form a stable complex with IDN2 in vivo. Null mutations in both genes, termed IDN2-LIKE 1 and IDN2-LIKE 2 (IDNL1 and IDNL2), result in a phenotype that mirrors, but does not further enhance, the idn2 mutant phenotype. Genetic analysis suggests that this complex acts in a step in the downstream portion of the RdDM pathway. We also have performed structural analysis showing that the IDN2 XS domain adopts an RNA recognition motif (RRM) fold. Finally, genome-wide DNA methylation and expression analysis confirms the placement of the IDN proteins in an RdDM pathway that affects DNA methylation and transcriptional control at many sites in the genome. Results from this study identify and describe two unique components of the RdDM machinery, adding to our understanding of DNA methylation control in the Arabidopsis genome.
The complex of tmRNA-SmpB and EF-G on translocating ribosomes.	Bacterial ribosomes stalled at the 3' end of malfunctioning messenger RNAs can be rescued by transfer-messenger RNA (tmRNA)-mediated trans-translation. The SmpB protein forms a complex with the tmRNA, and the transfer-RNA-like domain (TLD) of the tmRNA then enters the A site of the ribosome. Subsequently, the TLD-SmpB module is translocated to the P site, a process that is facilitated by the elongation factor EF-G, and translation is switched to the mRNA-like domain (MLD) of the tmRNA. Accurate loading of the MLD into the mRNA path is an unusual initiation mechanism. Despite various snapshots of different ribosome-tmRNA complexes at low to intermediate resolution, it is unclear how the large, highly structured tmRNA is translocated and how the MLD is loaded. Here we present a cryo-electron microscopy reconstruction of a fusidic-acid-stalled ribosomal 70S-tmRNA-SmpB-EF-G complex (carrying both of the large ligands, that is, EF-G and tmRNA) at 8.3 resolution. This post-translocational intermediate (TI(POST)) presents the TLD-SmpB module in an intrasubunit ap/P hybrid site and a tRNA(fMet) in an intrasubunit pe/E hybrid site. Conformational changes in the ribosome and tmRNA occur in the intersubunit space and on the solvent side. The key underlying event is a unique extra-large swivel movement of the 30S head, which is crucial for both tmRNA-SmpB translocation and MLD loading, thereby coupling translocation to MLD loading. This mechanism exemplifies the versatile, dynamic nature of the ribosome, and it shows that the conformational modes of the ribosome that normally drive canonical translation can also be used in a modified form to facilitate more complex tasks in specialized non-canonical pathways.
fus/TLS orchestrates splicing of developmental regulators during gastrulation.	Here we investigated the function of the atypical RNA-binding protein fus/TLS (fused in sarcoma/translocated in sarcoma) during early frog development. We found that fus is necessary for proper mRNA splicing of a set of developmental regulatory genes during early frog development and gastrulation. Upon fus knockdown, embryos fail to gastrulate and show mesodermal differentiation defects that we connect to intron retention in fgf8 (fibroblast growth factor 8) and fgfr2 (fgf receptor 2) transcripts. During gastrulation, the animal and marginal regions dissociate, and we show that this is caused, at least in part, by intron retention in cdh1 transcripts. We confirm the specificity of splicing defects at a genomic level using analysis of RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and show that 3%-5% of all transcripts display intron retention throughout the pre-mRNA. By analyzing gene ontology slim annotations, we show that the affected genes are enriched for developmental regulators and therefore represent a biologically coherent set of targets for fus regulation in embryogenesis. This shows that fus is central to embryogenesis and may provide information on its function in neurodegenerative disease.
The conserved Bud20 zinc finger protein is a new component of the ribosomal 60S subunit export machinery.	The nuclear export of the preribosomal 60S (pre-60S) subunit is coordinated with late steps in ribosome assembly. Here, we show that Bud20, a conserved C(2)H(2)-type zinc finger protein, is an unrecognized shuttling factor required for the efficient export of pre-60S subunits. Bud20 associates with late pre-60S particles in the nucleoplasm and accompanies them into the cytoplasm, where it is released through the action of the Drg1 AAA-ATPase. Cytoplasmic Bud20 is then reimported via a Kap123-dependent pathway. The deletion of Bud20 induces a strong pre-60S export defect and causes synthetic lethality when combined with mutant alleles of known pre-60S subunit export factors. The function of Bud20 in ribosome export depends on a short conserved N-terminal sequence, as we observed that mutations or the deletion of this motif impaired 60S subunit export and generated the genetic link to other pre-60S export factors. We suggest that the shuttling Bud20 is recruited to the nascent 60S subunit via its central zinc finger rRNA binding domain to facilitate the subsequent nuclear export of the preribosome employing its N-terminal extension.
Protease activity of procaspase-8 is essential for cell survival by inhibiting both apoptotic and nonapoptotic cell death dependent on receptor-interacting protein kinase 1 (RIP1) and RIP3.	Caspase-8 has an important role as an initiator caspase during death receptor-mediated apoptosis. Moreover, it has been reported to contribute to the regulation of cell fate in various types of cells including T-cells. In this report, we show that caspase-8 has an essential role in cell survival in mouse T-lymphoma-derived L5178Y cells. The knockdown of caspase-8 expression decreased the growth rate and increased cell death, both of which were induced by the absence of protease activity of procaspase-8. The cell death was associated with reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, caspase activation, and autophagosome formation. The cell death was inhibited completely by treatment with ROS scavengers, but only partly by treatment with caspase inhibitors, expression of Bcl-xL, and knockdown of caspase-3 or Atg-7 which completely inhibits apoptosis or autophagosome formation, respectively, indicating that apoptosis and autophagy-associated cell death are induced simultaneously by the knockdown of caspase-8 expression. Further analysis indicated that RIP1 and RIP3 regulate this multiple cell death, because the cell death as well as ROS production was completely inhibited by not only treatment with the RIP1 inhibitor necrostatin-1, but also by knockdown of RIP3. Thus, in the absence of protease activity of procaspase-8, RIP1 and RIP3 simultaneously induce not only nonapoptotic cell death conceivably including autophagic cell death and necroptosis but also apoptosis through ROS production in mouse T-lymphoma cells.
Molecular evolution of translin superfamily proteins within the genomes of eubacteria, archaea and eukaryotes.	Translin and its interacting partner protein, TRAX, are members of the translin superfamily. These proteins are involved in mRNA regulation and in promoting RISC activity by removing siRNA passenger strand cleavage products, and have been proposed to play roles in DNA repair and recombination. Both homomeric translin and heteromeric translin-TRAX complex bind to ssDNA and RNA; however, the heteromeric complex is a key activator in siRNA-mediated silencing in human and drosophila. The residues critical for RNase activity of the complex reside in TRAX sequence. Both translin and TRAX are well conserved in eukaryotes. In present work, a single translin superfamily protein is detected in Chloroflexi eubacteria, in the known phyla of archaea and in some unicellular eukaryotes. The prokaryotic proteins essentially share unique sequence motifs with eukaryotic TRAX, while the proteins possessing both the unique sequences and conserved indels of TRAX or translin can be identified from protists. Intriguingly, TRAX protein in all the known genomes of extant Chloroflexi share high sequence similarity and conserved indels with the archaeal protein, suggesting occurrence of TRAX at least at the time of Chloroflexi divergence as well as evolutionary relationship between Chloroflexi and archaea. The mirror phylogeny in phylogenetic tree, constructed using diverse translin and TRAX sequences, indicates gene duplication event leading to evolution of translin in unicellular eukaryotes, prior to divergence of multicellular eukayrotes. Since Chloroflexi has been debated to be near the last universal common ancestor, the present analysis indicates that TRAX may be useful to understand the tree of life.
Influence of structural symmetry on protein dynamics.	Structural symmetry in homooligomeric proteins has intrigued many researchers over the past several decades. However, the implication of protein symmetry is still not well understood. In this study, we performed molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of two forms of trp RNA binding attenuation protein (TRAP), the wild-type 11-mer and an engineered 12-mer, having two different levels of circular symmetry. The results of the simulations showed that the inter-subunit fluctuations in the 11-mer TRAP were significantly smaller than the fluctuations in the 12-mer TRAP while the internal fluctuations were larger in the 11-mer than in the 12-mer. These differences in thermal fluctuations were interpreted by normal mode analysis and group theory. For the 12-mer TRAP, the wave nodes of the normal modes existed at the flexible interface between the subunits, while the 11-mer TRAP had its nodes within the subunits. The principal components derived from the MD simulations showed similar mode structures. These results demonstrated that the structural symmetry was an important determinant of protein dynamics in circularly symmetric homooligomeric proteins.
Protein chemical shift assignments of the unbound and RNA-bound forms of the alternative splicing factor SUP-12 from C. elegans.	The splicing factor SUP-12 from Caenorhabditis elegans binds to regulatory RNA elements in pre-mRNA in order to generate tissue-specific alternative splicing for genes such as the fibroblast growth factor receptor egl-15. In nematode muscle cells, SUP-12 promotes the use of a mutually exclusive exon to impart variant binding specificity to the EGL-15 extracellular protein domain. Here we report the side chain and backbone (1)H, (13)C and (15)N chemical shift assignments for the bacterially expressed RNA recognition motif domain from SUP-12, both in isolation as well as bound to a short RNA derived from the intron sequence between exon 4 and exon 5B of egl-15. Comparison of protein chemical shift values for both the backbone and side chain nuclei, coupled with secondary chemical shift analysis, reveal initial details of the RNA recognition. 
Conformational readout of RNA by small ligands.	RNA molecules have highly versatile structures that can fold into myriad conformations, providing many potential pockets for binding small molecules. The increasing number of available RNA structures, in complex with proteins, small ligands and in free form, enables the design of new therapeutically useful RNA-binding ligands. Here we studied RNA ligand complexes from 10 RNA groups extracted from the protein data bank (PDB), including adaptive and non-adaptive complexes. We analyzed the chemical, physical, structural and conformational properties of binding pockets around the ligand. Comparing the properties of ligand-binding pockets to the properties of computed pockets extracted from all available RNA structures and RNA-protein interfaces, revealed that ligand-binding pockets, mainly the adaptive pockets, are characterized by unique properties, specifically enriched in rare conformations of the nucleobase and the sugar pucker. Further, we demonstrate that nucleotides possessing the rare conformations are preferentially involved in direct interactions with the ligand. Overall, based on our comprehensive analysis of RNA-ligand complexes, we suggest that the unique conformations adopted by RNA nucleotides play an important role in RNA recognition by small ligands. We term the recognition of a binding site by a ligand via the unique RNA conformations "RNA conformational readout." We propose that "conformational readout" is a general way by which RNA binding pockets are recognized and selected from an ensemble of different RNA states. 
RNA pentaloop structures as effective targets of regulators belonging to the RsmA/CsrA protein family.	In the Gac/Rsm signal transduction pathway of Pseudomonas fluorescens CHA0, the dimeric RNA-binding proteins RsmA and RsmE, which belong to the vast bacterial RsmA/CsrA family, effectively repress translation of target mRNAs containing a typical recognition sequence near the translation start site. Three small RNAs (RsmX, RsmY, RsmZ) with clustered recognition sequences can sequester RsmA and RsmE and thereby relieve translational repression. According to a previously established structural model, the RsmE protein makes optimal contacts with an RNA sequence 5'- (A)/(U)CANGGANG(U)/(A)-3', in which the central ribonucleotides form a hexaloop. Here, we questioned the relevance of the hexaloop structure in target RNAs. We found that two predicted pentaloop structures, AGGGA (in pltA mRNA encoding a pyoluteorin biosynthetic enzyme) and AAGGA (in mutated pltA mRNA), allowed effective interaction with the RsmE protein in vivo. By contrast, ACGGA and AUGGA were poor targets. Isothermal titration calorimetry measurements confirmed the strong binding of RsmE to the AGGGA pentaloop structure in an RNA oligomer. Modeling studies highlighted the crucial role of the second ribonucleotide in the loop structure. In conclusion, a refined structural model of RsmE-RNA interaction accommodates certain pentaloop RNAs among the preferred hexaloop RNAs.
Prediction of clustered RNA-binding protein motif sites in the mammalian genome.	Sequence-specific interactions of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) with their target transcripts are essential for post-transcriptional gene expression regulation in mammals. However, accurate prediction of RBP motif sites has been difficult because many RBPs recognize short and degenerate sequences. Here we describe a hidden Markov model (HMM)-based algorithm mCarts to predict clustered functional RBP-binding sites by effectively integrating the number and spacing of individual motif sites, their accessibility in local RNA secondary structures and cross-species conservation. This algorithm learns and quantifies rules of these features, taking advantage of a large number of in vivo RBP-binding sites obtained from cross-linking and immunoprecipitation data. We applied this algorithm to study two representative RBP families, Nova and Mbnl, which regulate tissue-specific alternative splicing through interacting with clustered YCAY and YGCY elements, respectively, and predicted their binding sites in the mouse transcriptome. Despite the low information content in individual motif elements, our algorithm made specific predictions for successful experimental validation. Analysis of predicted sites also revealed cases of extensive and distal RBP-binding sites important for splicing regulation. This algorithm can be readily applied to other RBPs to infer their RNA-regulatory networks. The software is freely available at http://zhanglab.c2b2.columbia.edu/index.php/MCarts. 
Structural insights into the targeting of mRNA GU-rich elements by the three RRMs of CELF1.	The CUG-BP, Elav-like family (CELF) of RNA-binding proteins control gene expression at a number of different levels by regulating pre-mRNA splicing, deadenylation and mRNA stability. We present structural insights into the binding selectivity of CELF member 1 (CELF1) for GU-rich mRNA target sequences of the general form 5'-UGUNxUGUNyUGU and identify a high affinity interaction (Kd  100 nM for x = 2 and y = 4) with simultaneous binding of all three RNA recognition motifs within a single 15-nt binding element. RNA substrates spin-labelled at either the 3' or 5' terminus result in differential nuclear magnetic resonance paramagnetic relaxation enhancement effects, which are consistent with a non-sequential 2-1-3 arrangement of the three RNA recognition motifs on UGU sites in a 5' to 3' orientation along the RNA target. We further demonstrate that CELF1 binds to dispersed single-stranded UGU sites at the base of an RNA hairpin providing a structural rationale for recognition of CUG expansion repeats and splice site junctions in the regulation of alternative splicing. 
Mechanistic studies for the role of cellular nucleic-acid-binding protein (CNBP) in regulation of c-myc transcription.	Guanine-rich sequence of c-myc nuclease hypersensitive element (NHE) III1 is known to fold in G-quadruplex and subsequently serves as a transcriptional silencer. Cellular nucleic-acid-binding protein (CNBP), a highly conserved zinc-finger protein with multiple biological functions, could bind to c-myc NHE III1 region, specifically to the single strand G-rich sequence.
Cell nucleus targeting for living cell extraction of nucleic acid associated proteins with intracellular nanoprobes of magnetic carbon nanotubes.	Since nanoparticles could be ingested by cells naturally and target at a specific cellular location as designed, the extraction of intracellular proteins from living cells for large-scale analysis by nanoprobes seems to be ideally possible. Nucleic acid associated proteins (NAaP) take the crucial position during biological processes in maintaining and regulating gene structure and gene related behaviors, yet there are still challenges during the global investigation of intracellular NAaP, especially from living cells. In this work, a strategy to extract intracellular proteins from living cells with the magnetic carbon nanotube (oMWCNT@Fe3O4) as an intracellular probe is developed, to achieve the high throughput analysis of NAaP from living human hepatoma BEL-7402 cells with a mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach. Due to the specific intracellular localization of the magnetic carbon nanotubes around nuclei and its strong interaction with nucleic acids, the highly efficient extraction was realized for cellular NAaP from living cells, with the capability of identifying 2383 intracellular NAaP from only ca. 10,000 living cells. This method exhibited potential applications in dynamic and in situ analysis of intracellular proteins.
Interactions affected by arginine methylation in the yeast protein-protein interaction network.	Protein-protein interactions can be modulated by the methylation of arginine residues. As a means of testing this, we recently described a conditional two-hybrid system, based on the bacterial adenylate cyclase (BACTH) system. Here, we have used this conditional two-hybrid system to explore the effect of arginine methylation in modulating protein-protein interactions in a subset of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae arginine methylproteome network. Interactions between the yeast hub protein Npl3 and yeast proteins Air2, Ded1, Gbp2, Snp1, and Yra1 were first validated in the absence of methylation. The major yeast arginine methyltransferase Hmt1 was subsequently included in the conditional two-hybrid assay, initially to determine the degree of methylation that occurs. Proteins Snp1 and Yra1 were confirmed as Hmt1 substrates, with five and two novel arginine methylation sites mapped by ETD LC-MS/MS on these proteins, respectively. Proteins Ded1 and Gbp2, previously predicted but not confirmed as substrates of Hmt1, were also found to be methylated with five and seven sites mapped respectively. Air2 was found to be a novel substrate of Hmt1 with two sites mapped. Finally, we investigated the interactions of Npl3 with the five interaction partners in the presence of active Hmt1 and in the presence of Hmt1 with a G68R inactivation mutation. We found that the interaction between Npl3 and Air2, and Npl3 and Ded1, were significantly increased in the presence of active Hmt1; the interaction of Npl3 and Snp1 showed a similar degree of increase in interaction but this was not statistically significant. The interactions of Npl3 and Gbp2, along with Npl3 and Yra1, were not significantly increased or decreased by methylation. We conclude that methylarginine may be a widespread means by which the interactions of proteins are modulated. 
Structure of the PAN3 pseudokinase reveals the basis for interactions with the PAN2 deadenylase and the GW182 proteins.	The PAN2-PAN3 deadenylase complex functions in general and miRNA-mediated mRNA degradation and is specifically recruited to miRNA targets by GW182/TNRC6 proteins. We describe the PAN3 adaptor protein crystal structure that, unexpectedly, forms intertwined and asymmetric homodimers. Dimerization is mediated by a coiled coil that links an N-terminal pseudokinase to a C-terminal knob domain. The PAN3 pseudokinase binds ATP, and this function is required for mRNA degradation in vivo. We further identified conserved surfaces required for mRNA degradation, including the binding surface for the PAN2 deadenylase on the knob domain. The most remarkable structural feature is the presence of a tryptophan-binding pocket at the dimer interface, which mediates binding to TNRC6C in human cells. Together, our data reveal the structural basis for the interaction of PAN3 with PAN2 and the recruitment of the PAN2-PAN3 complex to miRNA targets by TNRC6 proteins.
RBM5 is a male germ cell splicing factor and is required for spermatid differentiation and male fertility.	Alternative splicing of precursor messenger RNA (pre-mRNA) is common in mammalian cells and enables the production of multiple gene products from a single gene, thus increasing transcriptome and proteome diversity. Disturbance of splicing regulation is associated with many human diseases; however, key splicing factors that control tissue-specific alternative splicing remain largely undefined. In an unbiased genetic screen for essential male fertility genes in the mouse, we identified the RNA binding protein RBM5 (RNA binding motif 5) as an essential regulator of haploid male germ cell pre-mRNA splicing and fertility. Mice carrying a missense mutation (R263P) in the second RNA recognition motif (RRM) of RBM5 exhibited spermatid differentiation arrest, germ cell sloughing and apoptosis, which ultimately led to azoospermia (no sperm in the ejaculate) and male sterility. Molecular modelling suggested that the R263P mutation resulted in compromised mRNA binding. Within the adult mouse testis, RBM5 localises to somatic and germ cells including spermatogonia, spermatocytes and round spermatids. Through the use of RNA pull down coupled with microarrays, we identified 11 round spermatid-expressed mRNAs as putative RBM5 targets. Importantly, the R263P mutation affected pre-mRNA splicing and resulted in a shift in the isoform ratios, or the production of novel spliced transcripts, of most targets. Microarray analysis of isolated round spermatids suggests that altered splicing of RBM5 target pre-mRNAs affected expression of genes in several pathways, including those implicated in germ cell adhesion, spermatid head shaping, and acrosome and tail formation. In summary, our findings reveal a critical role for RBM5 as a pre-mRNA splicing regulator in round spermatids and male fertility. Our findings also suggest that the second RRM of RBM5 is pivotal for appropriate pre-mRNA splicing.
catRAPID omics: a web server for large-scale prediction of protein-RNA interactions.	Here we introduce catRAPID omics, a server for large-scale calculations of protein-RNA interactions. Our web server allows (i) predictions at proteomic and transcriptomic level; (ii) use of protein and RNA sequences without size restriction; (iii) analysis of nucleic acid binding regions in proteins; and (iv) detection of RNA motifs involved in protein recognition.
Bromo- and extraterminal domain chromatin regulators serve as cofactors for murine leukemia virus integration.	Retroviral integrase (IN) proteins catalyze the permanent integration of proviral genomes into host DNA with the help of cellular cofactors. Lens epithelium-derived growth factor (LEDGF) is a cofactor for lentiviruses, including human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), and targets lentiviral integration toward active transcription units in the host genome. In contrast to lentiviruses, murine leukemia virus (MLV), a gammaretrovirus, tends to integrate near transcription start sites. Here, we show that the bromodomain and extraterminal domain (BET) proteins BRD2, BRD3, and BRD4 interact with gammaretroviral INs and stimulate the catalytic activity of MLV IN in vitro. We mapped the interaction site to a characteristic structural feature within the BET protein extraterminal (ET) domain and to three amino acids in MLV IN. The ET domains of different BET proteins stimulate MLV integration in vitro and, in the case of BRD2, also in vivo. Furthermore, two small-molecule BET inhibitors, JQ1 and I-BET, decrease MLV integration and shift it away from transcription start sites. Our data suggest that BET proteins might act as chromatin-bound acceptors for the MLV preintegration complex. These results could pave a way to redirecting MLV DNA integration as a basis for creating safer retroviral vectors. 
Architecture of the Lsm1-7-Pat1 complex: a conserved assembly in eukaryotic mRNA turnover.	The decay of mRNAs is a key step in eukaryotic gene expression. The cytoplasmic Lsm1-7-Pat1 complex is a conserved component of the 5'-to-3' mRNA decay pathway, linking deadenylation to decapping. Lsm1-7 is similar to the nuclear Sm complexes that bind oligo-uridine tracts in snRNAs. The 2.3 resolution structure of S.cerevisiae Lsm1-7 shows the presence of a heptameric ring with Lsm1-2-3-6-5-7-4 topology. A distinct structural feature of the cytoplasmic Lsm ring is the C-terminal extension of Lsm1, which plugs the exit site of the central channel and approaches the RNA binding pockets. The 3.7 resolution structure of Lsm1-7 bound to the C-terminal domain of Pat1 reveals that Pat1 recognition is not mediated by the distinguishing cytoplasmic subunit, Lsm1, but by Lsm2 and Lsm3. These results show how the auxiliary domains and the canonical Sm folds of the Lsm1-7 complex are organized in order to mediate and modulate macromolecular interactions. 
Truncated serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 3 accelerates cell growth through up-regulating c-Jun expression.	Serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 3 (SRSF3), a member of the SRSF family, plays a wide-ranging role in gene expression. The human SRSF3 gene generates a major mRNA isoform encoding a functional, full-length protein and a PTC-containing isoform (SRSF3-PTC). The latter is expected to be degraded through the nonsense-mediated mRNA decay system. However, it was reported that SRSF3-PTC mRNA was produced under stressful conditions and translated into a truncated SRSF3 protein (SRSF3-TR). To disclose unknown functions of SRSF3-TR, we established Flp-In-293 cells stably expressing SRSF3-TR. The SRSF3-TR-expressing cells increased mRNA and protein levels of positive regulators for G1 to S phase transition (cyclin D1, cyclin D3, CDC25A, and E2F1) and accelerated their growth. c-Jun is required for progression through the G1 phase, the mechanism by which involves transcriptional control of the cyclin D1 gene. We also found that the JUN promoter activity was significantly increased in the Flp-In-293 cells stably expressing SRSF3-TR, compared with mock-transfected control cells. The SRSF3-TR-expressing cells increased c-Jun and Sp-1 levels, which are important for the positive autoregulation and basal transcription of JUN, respectively. Our results suggest that stress-inducible SRSF3-TR may participate in the acceleration of cell growth through facilitating c-Jun-mediated G1 progression under stressful conditions.
Molecular dynamics simulation in RNA interference.	RNA interference (RNAi) is a mechanism that utilizes small RNA molecules to silence gene expression after the gene has been transcribed. To understand the mechanisms of small RNA biogenesis, target nucleic acid recognition and cleavage, and how they are influenced by other regulators, one needs to know the structures and dynamics of the proteins or/and nucleic acids in these processes. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulation is a powerful tool for understanding motions and dynamics of macro-biomolecules at an atomic-scale via theoretical and empirical principles in physical chemistry. With its application to RNAi, an excellent overview of structural and dynamical mechanistic of RNAi processes has already emerged. In this review, we summarize the recent advances in MD simulations in the study of functional modules and their assemblies and target recognition and cleavage in RNAi processes. Additionally, we also present some perspectives on this technique. 
Principles of ion recognition in RNA: insights from the group II intron structures.	Metal ions promote both RNA folding and catalysis, thus being essential in stabilizing the structure and determining the function of large RNA molecules, including group II introns. The latter are self-splicing metalloribozymes, containing a heteronuclear four-metal-ion center within the active site. In addition to these catalytic ions, group II introns bind many other structural ions, including delocalized ions that bind the RNA diffusively and well-ordered ions that bind the RNA tightly with high occupancy. The latter ions, which can be studied by biophysical methods, have not yet been analyzed systematically. Here, we compare crystal structures of the group IIC intron from Oceanobacillus iheyensis and classify numerous site-bound ions, which are primarily localized in the intron core and near long-range tertiary contacts. Certain ion-binding sites resemble motifs observed in known RNA structures, while others are idiosyncratic to the group II intron. Particularly interesting are (1) ions proximal to the active site, which may participate in splicing together with the catalytic four-metal-ion center, (2) organic ions that bind regions predicted to interact with intron-encoded proteins, and (3) unusual monovalent ions bound to GU wobble pairs, GA mismatches, the S-turn, the tetraloop-receptor, and the T-loop. Our analysis extends the general principles by which ions participate in RNA structural organization and it will aid in the determination and interpretation of future RNA structures. 
RNA-protein interactions: an overview.	RNA binding proteins (RBPs) are key players in the regulation of gene expression. In this chapter we discuss the main protein-RNA recognition modes used by RBPs in order to regulate multiple steps of RNA processing. We discuss traditional and state-of-the-art technologies that can be used to study RNAs bound by individual RBPs, or vice versa, for both in vitro and in vivo methodologies. To help highlight the biological significance of RBP mediated regulation, online resources on experimentally verified protein-RNA interactions are briefly presented. Finally, we present the major tools to computationally infer RNA binding sites according to the modeling features and to the unsupervised or supervised frameworks that are adopted. Since some RNA binding site search algorithms are derived from DNA binding site search algorithms, we discuss the commonalities and novelties introduced to handle both sequence and structural features uniquely characterizing protein-RNA interactions.
Crystal structure of the single-stranded RNA binding protein HutP from Geobacillus thermodenitrificans.	RNA binding proteins control gene expression by the attenuation/antitermination mechanism. HutP is an RNA binding antitermination protein. It regulates the expression of hut operon when it binds with RNA by modulating the secondary structure of single-stranded hut mRNA. HutP necessitates the presence of l-histidine and divalent metal ion to bind with RNA. Herein, we report the crystal structures of ternary complex (HutP-l-histidine-Mg(2+)) and EDTA (0.5 M) treated ternary complex (HutP-l-histidine-Mg(2+)), solved at 1.9  and 2.5  resolutions, respectively, from Geobacillus thermodenitrificans. The addition of 0.5 M EDTA does not affect the overall metal-ion mediated ternary complex structure and however, the metal ions at the non-specific binding sites are chelated, as evidenced from the results of structural features.
Prediction of RNA binding residues: an extensive analysis based on structure and function to select the best predictor.	Protein-RNA complexes play key roles in several cellular processes by the interactions of amino acids with RNA. To understand the recognition mechanism, it is important to identify the specific amino acids involved in RNA binding. Various computational methods have been developed for predicting RNA binding residues from protein sequence. However, their performances mainly depend on the training dataset, feature selection for developing a model and learning capacity of the model. Hence, it is important to reveal the correspondence between the performance of methods and properties of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). In this work, we have collected all available RNA binding residues prediction methods and revealed their performances on unbiased, stringent and diverse datasets for RBPs with less than 25% sequence identity based on structural class, fold, superfamily, family, protein function, RNA type, RNA strand and RNA conformation. The best methods for each type of RBPs and the type of RBPs, which require further refinement in prediction, have been brought out. We also analyzed the performance of these methods for the disordered regions, structures which are not included in the training dataset and recently solved structures. The reliability of prediction is better than randomly choosing any method or combination of methods. This approach would be a valuable resource for biologists to choose the best method based on the type of RBPs for designing their experiments and the tool is freely accessible online at www.iitm.ac.in/bioinfo/RNA-protein/. 
Mutational analysis of the putative nucleic acid-binding surface of the cold-shock domain, CspB, revealed an essential role of aromatic and basic residues in binding of single-stranded DNA containing the Y-box motif.	The major cold-shock protein of Bacillus subtilis, CspB, is a member of a protein family widespread among prokaryotes and eukaryotes that share the highly conserved cold-shock domain (CSD). The CSD domain is involved in transcriptional and translational regulation and was shown to bind the Y-box motif, a cis-element that contains the core sequence ATTGG, with high affinity. The three-dimensional structure of CspB, a prototype of this protein family, revealed that this hydrophilic CSD domain creates a surface rich in aromatic and basic amino acids that may act as the nucleic acid-binding site. We have analysed the potential role of conserved aromatic and basic residues in nucleic acid binding by site-directed mutagenesis. In gel retardation and ultraviolet cross-linking experiments, the ability of CspB mutants to bind single-stranded oligonucleotides (ssDNA) that contain the Y-box motif was investigated. Single substitutions of three highly conserved phenylalanine residues (Phe-15, Phe-17, Phe-27) by alanine and substitution of one histidine (His-29) by glutamine, all located within the putative RNA-binding sites RNP-1 and RNP-2, abolished the nucleic acid-binding activity of CspB. Conservative substitutions of Phe-15 to tyrosine (F15Y) showed a small increase in binding affinity, whereas separate replacement of Phe-17 and Phe-27 by tyrosine caused a reduction in binding activity. These and other substitutions including the conserved basic residues Lys-7, Lys-13 and Arg-56 as well as the aromatic residues Trp-8 and Phe-30 strongly suggest that CspB uses the side-chains of these amino acids for specific interaction with nucleic acids. Ultraviolet cross-linking experiments for CspB mutants with ssDNA supported the idea of specific CspB/nucleic acid interaction and indicated an essential role for the aromatic and basic residues in this binding. In addition, two-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance studies with F17A, K13Q, F15Y and F27Y revealed that the mutants have the same overall structure as the wild-type CspB protein.
Dosage suppressors of the dominant G1 cyclin mutant CLN3-2: identification of a yeast gene encoding a putative RNA/ssDNA binding protein.	Three G1 cyclins, CLN1, CLN2, and CLN3, have been identified in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. G1 cyclins are essential, albeit functionally redundant, rate-limiting activators of cell cycle initiation. We have isolated dosage-dependent suppressor genes (designated HMD genes) of the mating defect caused by CLN3-2, a dominant mutation in CLN3, HMD2 and HMD3 are identical to STE4 and STE5, respectively, HMD1 is an essential gene that encodes a protein containing a putative RNA binding domain. Overproduction of HMD1 results in a relatively specific reduction in the level of the CLN3 or CLN3-2 transcript. This reduction occurs subsequent to transcription initiation of CLN3 since overexpression of HMD1 did not affect expression of a heterologous transcript from the CLN3 promoter but did result in a reduction of CLN3 transcript expressed from a heterologous promoter. HMD1 has at least one essential role independent of its effect on CLN3 since HMD1 remains essential for viability in the absence of a functional CLN3 gene.
Isolation of genomic and cDNA clones encoding bovine poly(A) binding protein II.	cDNA clones for bovine poly(A) binding protein II (PAB II) were isolated. Their sequence predicts a protein of 32.8 kDa, revising earlier estimates of molecular mass. The protein contains one putative RNA-binding domain of the RNP type, an acidic N-terminal and a basic C-terminal domain. Analyses of authentic PAB II were in good agreement with all predictions from the cDNA sequence except that a number of arginine residues appeared to be post-translationally modified. Poly(A) binding protein II expressed in Escherichia coli was active in poly(A) binding and reconstitution of processive polyadenylation, including poly(A) tail length control. The cDNA clones showed a number of potential PAB II binding sites in the 3' untranslated sequence. Bovine poly(A)+RNA contained two mRNAs hybridizing to a PAB II-specific probe. Analysis of a genomic clone revealed six introns in the coding sequence. The revised molecular mass led to a demonstration of PAB II oligomer formation and a reinterpretation of earlier data concerning the protein's binding to poly(A).
Crosslinking of an iodo-uridine-RNA hairpin to a single site on the human U1A N-terminal RNA binding domain.	The N-terminal RNA binding domain (RBD) of the human U1A snRNP protein binds tightly and specifically to an RNA hairpin that contains a 10-nucleotide loop. The protein is one of a class of RNA binding proteins that adopts a beta alpha beta beta alpha beta global fold, which in turn forms a four-stranded antiparallel beta-sheet. This sheet forms the primary binding surface for the RNA, as shown by the crosslinking results described here, and in more detail by a recently described co-crystal of this RBD with an RNA hairpin (Oubridge C, et al., 1994, Nature 372:432-438). The RNA hairpin sequence used in the crosslinking experiments, containing 5-iodo-uridine, is a variant of the normal U1 snRNA sequence which is able to form a crosslink with the protein, in contrast to the wild-type sequence, which does not. This single uridine substitution in the 10-nucleotide loop is the site of cross-linking to one tyrosine (Tyr 13) in the beta 1 strand of the U1A N-terminal RBD. This same uridine is also crosslinked to a mutant Tyr 13 Phe RBD, at this Phe 13 substitution.
Requirements for iron-regulated degradation of the RNA binding protein, iron regulatory protein 2.	Iron regulatory proteins (IRPs) regulate the expression of genes involved in iron metabolism whose transcripts contain RNA stem-loop motifs known as iron-responsive elements (IREs). When iron concentrations are low, IRPs bind to IREs in the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of transcripts where they repress translation, or the 3' UTR of transcripts where they inhibit degradation. The RNA binding activities of the homologous proteins IRP1 and IRP2 are both regulated post-translationally. The binding activity of IRP2 is regulated by the degradation of the protein when cells are iron-replete. Here, we demonstrate that a 73 amino acid sequence that corresponds to a unique exon in IRP2 contains a sequence required for rapid degradation in iron-replete cells. The deletion of this sequence eliminates the rapid turnover of IRP2, whereas the transfer of this sequence to the corresponding position in the homologous protein IRP1 confers the capacity for iron-dependent degradation upon IRP1. Site-directed mutagenesis has demonstrated that specific cysteines within the IRP2 exon are required for iron-dependent degradation. The degradation of IRP2 appears to be mediated by the proteasome in iron-replete cells. When degradation is prevented, the RNA binding activity of IRP2 is not regulated by iron concentration. Thus, degradation is required for the regulation of the RNA binding activity of IRP2.
Genomic organization and chromosomal location of the human dsRNA adenosine deaminase gene: the enzyme for glutamate-activated ion channel RNA editing.	The structure of the human gene encoding the double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) adenosine deaminase (DRADA) was characterized. This nuclear localized enzyme is involved in the RNA editing required for the expression of certain subtypes of glutamate-gated ion channel subunits. The DRADA gene span 30 kb pairs and harbors 15 exons. The transcription of the DRADA gene driven by the putative promoter region, which contains no typical TATA or CCAAT box-like sequences, is initiated at multiple sites, 164 to 216 nucleotides upstream of the translation initiation codon. The three dsRNA binding motifs (DRBM), 70 amino acid residues long, are each encoded by two exons plus an intervening sequence that interrupts the motif at the identical amino acid position. This finding is consistent with the notion that the dsRNA binding domains may be composed of two separate functional subdomains. Fluorescent in situ hybridization localized the DRADA gene on the long arm chromosome 1, region q21. The gene structure and sequence information reported in this study will facilitate the investigation of involvement of DRADA in hereditary diseases that may be the result of malfunction of glutamate-gated ion channels.
Solution structure of the ribosome-binding domain of E. coli translation initiation factor IF3. Homology with the U1A protein of the eukaryotic spliceosome.	Initiation of translation in prokaryotes requires the formation of a complex between the messenger RNA, the 30 S ribosomal subunit and the initiator tRNA(fMet). Initiation factor IF3 binds to the 30 S ribosomal subunit and proof-reads the initiation complex, thereby ensuring the accuracy of this step. IF3 also plays a pleiotropic role in the regulation of translation, as a result of differential influences exerted on the levels of the initiation of translation of genes or groups of genes. IF3 is composed of two independent domain or roughly identical sizes. We have expressed and purified the C-terminal domain of E. coli IF3 and shown that it retains both the 30 S particle binding and 70 S ribosome dissociating activities of the native protein. We have obtained 1H and 15N NMR resonance assignments and its 3D solution structure was calculated using 551 restraints. It is composed of a mixed beta-sheet backed by two alpha-helices. It shows a striking resemblance to the U1A small nuclear ribonucleoprotein structure, which binds to the U1 snRNA in the eukaryotic spliceosome. This suggests a convergent evolution process for these two proteins that are associated with ribonucleoproteic complexes.
Molecular cloning and characterization of a TAR-binding nuclear factor from T cells.	The TAt protein of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) activates the expression of viral mRNA through a cis-acting element in the LTR termed TAR. TAR RNA forms a stable stem-loop structure. Mutagenesis studies indicate that the stem structure, the primary sequence of the loop, and three unpaired bases in the stem (bulge) are important for Tat activation. Using the in vitro-transcribed TAR RNA as a probe, we have cloned a gene (TARBP-b) that encodes a TAR-binding protein from a cDNA expression library derived from Hut-78 cells. Expression of the 1.4-kb TARBP-b mRNA was observed in all mammalian cell lines tested. TARBP-b binds specifically to the bulge region of TAR RNA and trans-activates the HIV-1 long terminal repeat in the presence of ptat and prev expression plasmids. These results suggest that TARBP-b contributes to tat-mediated trans-activation.
Identification of hnRNP P2 as TLS/FUS using electrospray mass spectrometry.	Protein complexes assembled on mRNA precursors can be separated by gel filtration chromatography to yield spliceosomal and H complex fractions (Reed R, Griffith J, Maniatis T, 1988, Cell 53:949-961; Reed R, 1990, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 87:8031-8035.). Here we use Nano electrospray mass spectrometry (Wilm M, Mann M, 1994, Int J Mass Spectrometry Ion Processes 136:167-180) to identify proteins complexed with Adeno-pre-mRNA in the H complex peak. Four of the major hnRNP proteins, A1, B1, C1, and G, were identified by database analysis based on peptide mass and sequence information. A fifth protein in the H complex peak, corresponding to hnRNP P2, is shown to be the product of the TLS/FUS gene. This was originally identified as a chimeric oncogene formed by the chromosome translocation t(12;16) that is responsible for myxoid liposarcoma. The involvement of hnRNP P2 in oncogenesis provides a clear example of the importance of hnRNP proteins in molecular disease.
Spectroscopic characterisation of an aconitase (AcnA) of Escherichia coli.	A spectroscopic study of an aconitase, AcnA, from Escherichia coli is presented. The amino acid sequence of AcnA has 53% identity with mammalian cytosolic aconitase (c-aconitase) which is the translational regulator known as iron regulatory factor (IRF). In the [3Fe-4S](+)-containing, inactive state, AcnA displays an EPR signal which is not unlike the corresponding signal from mammalian mitochondrial aconitase (m-aconitase) but is even more similar to the signal from c-aconitase. This is perhaps related to the greater similarity of the AcnA amino acid sequence with c-aconitase. Magnetic circular dichroism (MCD) spectroscopy has revealed that the electronic structure of the [3Fe-4S] cluster of AcnA must be similar to, but not identical to that of m-aconitase. Whilst the [Fe-4S] clusters from both of these enzymes display some features in their MCD spectra common to [3Fe-4S] clusters in general, their spectra overall are unique and indicate that the Fea atom of the [4Fe-4S] form is not the only unusual feature of the [Fe-S] clusters of aconitases. Active [4Fe-4S]-containing AcnA can be reduced to yield an EPR signal due to a [4Fe-4S]+ cluster which is indistinguishable from the signals from the [4Fe-4S]+ cluster in the mammalian enzymes. However, in contrast to the mammalian enzymes, the EPR signals of the cluster in AcnA are not significantly perturbed upon the addition of substrate. Furthermore, the catalytic activity of [Fe-4S](2+)-containing AcnA is fivefold higher than that of m-aconitase. The mechanistic implications of these data are discussed. A novel S = 1/2 EPR signal with g approximately 2 was observed in AcnA upon treatment with EDTA. The species giving rise to this signal is proposed to be an intermediate in cluster deconstruction.
The 160-kD subunit of human cleavage-polyadenylation specificity factor coordinates pre-mRNA 3'-end formation.	Cleavage-polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF) is a multisubunit protein that plays a central role in 3' processing of mammalian pre-mRNAs. CPSF recognizes the AAUAAA signal in the pre-mRNA and interacts with other proteins to facilitate both RNA cleavage and poly(A) synthesis. Here we describe the isolation of cDNAs encoding the largest subunit of CPSF (160K) as well as characterization of the protein product. Antibodies raised against the recombinant protein inhibit polyadenylation in vitro, which can be restored by purified CPSF. Extending previous studies, which suggested that 160K contacts the pre-mRNA, we show that purified recombinant 160K can, by itself, bind preferentially to AAUAAA-containing RNAs. While the sequence of 160K reveals similarities to the RNP1 and RNP2 motifs found in many RNA-binding proteins, no clear match to a known RNA-binding domain was found, and RNA recognition is therefore likely mediated by a highly diverged or novel structure. We also show that 160K binds specifically to both the 77K (suppressor of forked) subunit of the cleavage factor CstF and to poly(A) polymerase (PAP). These results provide explanations for previously observed cooperative interactions between CPSF and CstF, which are responsible for poly(A) site specification, and between CPSF and PAP, which are necessary for synthesis of the poly(A) tail. Also supporting a direct role for 160K in these interactions is the fact that 160K by itself retains partial ability to cooperate with CstF in binding pre-mRNA and, unexpectedly, inhibits PAP activity in in vitro assays. We discuss the significance of these multiple functions and also a possible evolutionary link between yeast and mammalian polyadenylation suggested by the properties and sequence of 160K.
Structure-function relationships in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae poly(A) polymerase. Identification of a novel RNA binding site and a domain that interacts with specificity factor(s).	We have constructed deletions in the nonconserved regions at the amino and carboxyl ends of the poly(A) polymerase (PAP) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and examined the effects of these truncations on function of the enzyme. PAP synthesizes a poly(A) tail onto the 3'-end of RNA without any primer specificity but, in the presence of cellular factors, is directed specifically to the cleaved ends of mRNA precursors. The last 31 amino acids of PAP are dispensable for both nonspecific and specific activities. Removal of the next 36 amino acids affects an RNA binding domain, which is essential for the activity of the enzyme and for cell viability. This novel RNA binding site was further localized using additional deletions, cyanogen bromide cleavage of PAP cross-linked with RNA or 8-azido-ATP, and a monoclonal antibody against a COOH-terminal PAP epitope. A deletion that partially disrupts this domain has reduced nonspecific activity but functions in specific polyadenylation. In contrast, deletion of the first 18 amino acids of PAP has no effect on nonspecific polyadenylation but completely eliminates specific activity. This region is essential for enzyme function in vivo and is probably involved in the interaction of PAP with other protein(s) of the polyadenylation machinery.
Purification of an AU-rich RNA binding protein from Sarcophaga peregrina (flesh fly) and its identification as a Thiolase.	A protein that binds to the AU-rich sequence in the 3'-untranslated region of sarcotoxin IIA mRNA was purified from a Sarcophaga pupal extract to near homogeneity. The molecular mass of this protein was estimated to be 39 kDa by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The partial amino acid sequences of two peptides obtained from the 39 kDa protein showed striking similarities to partial amino acid sequences of rat and yeast 3-oxoacyl-CoA thiolase, suggesting that this protein is a Sarcophaga thiolase. In fact, the purified 39 kDa protein was found to have thiolase activity. Moreover, rat mitochondrial 3-oxoacyl-CoA thiolase showed affinity to the AU-rich RNA. These suggest that the RNA binding activity is an intrinsic character of thiolase.
An RNA-binding protein gene, TLS/FUS, is fused to ERG in human myeloid leukemia with t(16;21) chromosomal translocation.	The t(16;21)(p11;q22) translocation is a recurrent chromosomal abnormality found in several types of myeloid leukemia. We have previously demonstrated that the breakpoints of this translocation are clustered in a specific intron of the ERG gene on chromosome 21, which has recently been reported to be involved in Ewing's sarcoma. We show here that the TLS/FUS gene on chromosome 16 is fused with the ERG gene to produce the TLS/FUS-ERG chimeric transcript by this translocation. The TLS/FUS gene has been identified as a translocated gene in myxoid liposarcoma by the t(12;16)(q13;p11) translocation and encodes an RNA-binding protein that is highly homologous to the product of the EWS gene involved in Ewing's sarcoma. Thus, the TLS/FUS-ERG gene fusion in t(16;21) leukemia is predicted to produce a protein that is very similar to the EWS-ERG chimeric protein responsible for Ewing's sarcoma.
Analysis of the RNA-recognition motif and RS and RGG domains: conservation in metazoan pre-mRNA splicing factors.	We present a systematic analysis of sequence motifs found in metazoan protein factors involved in constitutive pre-mRNA splicing and in alternative splicing regulation. Using profile analysis we constructed a database enriched in protein sequences containing one or more presumptive copies of the RNA-recognition motif (RRM). We provide an accurate alignment of RRMs and structure-based criteria for identifying new RRMs, including many that lack the prototype RNP-1 submotif. We present a comprehensive table of 125 sequences containing 252 RRMs, including 22 previously unreported RRMs in 17 proteins. The presence of a putative RRM in these proteins, which are implicated in a variety of cellular processes, strongly suggests that their function involves binding to RNA. Unreported homologies in the RRM-enriched database to the metazoan SR family of splicing factors are described for an Arg-rich human nuclear protein and two yeast proteins (S. pombe mei2 and S. cerevisiae Npl3). We have rigorously tested the phylogenetic relationships of a large sample of RRMs. This analysis indicates that the RRM is an ancient conserved region (ACR) that has diversified by duplication of genes and intragenic domains. Statistical analyses and classification of repeated Arg-Ser (RS) and RGG domains in various protein splicing factors are presented.
Identification of protein synthesis elongation factor G as a 4.5 S RNA-binding protein in Escherichia coli.	Escherichia coli 4.5 S RNA is metabolically stable and abundant. It consists of 114 nucleotides, and it is structurally homologous to domain IV of mammalian signal recognition particle (SRP) RNA. In this study, we found two 4.5 S RNA-binding proteins in cell extracts by means of a gel mobility shift assay. One protein was identified as Ffh, which has been characterized as 4.5 S RNA-binding protein. The other protein was separated from Ffh by two consecutive column chromatographic elutions and by monitoring the 4.5 S RNA binding activity. After the second chromatography, a dominant protein with an approximate molecular weight of 78,000 was associated with 4.5 S RNA binding activity. A sequence of the NH2-terminal 19 residues of the 78-kDa protein was completely identical to that of the protein elongation factor G (EF-G) of E. coli, and further it cross-reacted with antiserum against E. coli EF-G. The results obtained using a synthetic oligo RNA corresponding to the 23 S rRNA defining the EF-G binding site indicated that 4.5 S RNA and 23 S rRNA are competitive in 4.5 S RNA binding and that a decanucleotide sequence conserved between them serves as a binding site for EF-G. Conservation of the SRP RNA binding activity of EF-G from Bacillus subtilis suggests that the binding of EF-G to SRP RNA is essential for its function.
A major tyrosine-phosphorylated protein of Trypanosoma brucei is a nucleolar RNA-binding protein.	We have previously identified a set of tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins with apparent molecular masses of 44-46 kDa as some of the major tyrosine phosphorylated species in the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma brucei. We now show that these molecules, herein named Nopp44/46, are localized in the nucleolus. Using monoclonal antibodies, we have isolated Nopp44/46 cDNA clones from expression libraries. Sequence analysis reveals that the predicted amino acid sequence of the molecule is composed of an N-terminal unique region, an internal acidic region, and C-terminal repeat region. Analysis of the cDNA clones and genomic Southern analysis indicated that Nopp44/46 belongs to a multigene family in which different gene copies are very similar but vary in the number of repeats. Interestingly, the repetitive amino acid sequence motif contains multiple RGG (Arg-Gly-Gly) boxes characteristic of RNA-binding proteins. In vitro binding experiments demonstrated that Nopp44/46 is indeed capable of binding nucleic acids. Competition experiments with different RNA homopolymers demonstrated that Nopp44/46 preferentially binds to poly(U). These studies suggest that Nopp44/46 may play a role in RNA metabolism in trypanosomes and raise the possibility that tyrosine phosphorylation may regulate the process.
CTBP1/RBP1, a Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein which binds to T-rich single-stranded DNA containing the 11-bp core sequence of autonomously replicating sequence, is a poly(deoxypyrimidine)-binding protein.	South-Western screening of a glutathione-S-transferase fusion protein library constructed from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae genomic DNA lead to isolation of core T-rich-strand-binding protein (CTBP) clones that bound to single-stranded DNA containing the T-rich-strand of the 11-bp core sequence of autonomously replicating sequences. One of these clones, CTBP1, contains a portion of previously described RBP1 which is an RNA-binding and single-stranded DNA-binding protein of S. cerevisiae. GST-CTBP1 as well as the full-length fusion protein with RBP1 (GST-RBP1) bind exclusively to the T-rich strand of the core sequence with an apparent dissociation constant of 5 nM, but not to the A-rich strand or double strand of the same sequence. Mutations within the core which reduce the number of T or C residues decrease the affinity of this protein. In keeping with this, binding of GST-CTBP1 to the core sequence is efficiently completed by poly(dT), poly(dT-dC) or poly(dC), but not by poly(dA) or poly(dG) to significant extents. Among polyribonucleic acids, GST-CTBP1 binds to poly(U) and poly(I) with greatest affinity, whereas GST-RBP1 binds to RNA in a rather non-specific manner. In no cases was affinity for RNA greater than that for DNA. Our results indicate that CTBP1/RBP1 is a polydeoxypyrimidine-binding protein of S. cerevisiae. CTBP1 contains two sets of an RNA-recognition motif (RRM) and a glutamine stretch. The binding affinity of the N-terminal or C-terminal set containing one RRM and one glutamine stretch is nearly two orders of magnitude lower than that of the wild-type CTBP1 containing both sets. The isolated N-terminal or C-terminal RRM alone (RRM1 and RRM2, respectively) is sufficient for binding nucleic acids with the binding specificity similar to that of the wild-type RRM, although the binding affinity of the isolated RRM2 is nearly two orders of magnitude lower than that of RRM1. Our results indicate that the two RRMs present in CTBP1/RBP1 have differential binding affinities and that the high affinity of RRM for polydeoxypyrimidine results from synergy between two lower-affinity RRMs.
Molecular cloning of a mouse homologue for the Drosophila splicing regulator Tra2.	We report the identification of a mouse cDNA, SIG41, encoding a protein of 288 amino acids that is 45% identical (58% similar) to the Drosophila splicing regulator Tra2. SIG41 cDNA contains four polyadenylation signals whose alternative use gives rise to four types of transcripts (2.1, 2.0, 1.5, and 1.4 kb) in mouse cells. Northern analysis and RT-PCR assays showed that SIG41 mRNA is present in virtually all the cell lines and tissues studied, with remarkable levels of expression in uterus and brain tissues. Differential stability of the SIG41 mRNAs was detected in mouse macrophage cells.
hnRNP A1 selectively interacts through its Gly-rich domain with different RNA-binding proteins.	Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs) are abundant nuclear polypeptides, most likely involved in different steps of pre-mRNA processing. Protein A1 (34 kDa), a prominent member of the hnRNP family, seems to act by modulating the RNA secondary structure and by antagonizing some splicing factors (SR proteins) in splice-site selection and exon skipping/inclusion. A role of A1 in the nucleo-cytoplasmic transport of RNA has also been proposed. These activities might depend not only on the RNA-binding properties of the protein but also on specific protein-protein interactions. Here we report that A1 can indeed selectively interact, in vitro, both with itself and with other hnRNP basic "core" proteins. Such selective binding is mediated exclusively by the Gly-rich C-terminal domain, where a novel protein-binding motif constituted by hydrophobic repeats can be envisaged. The same domain is necessary and sufficient to promote specific interaction in vivo, as assayed by the yeast two-hybrid assay. Moreover, an in vitro interaction with some SR proteins was also observed. These observations suggest that diverse and specific protein-protein interactions might contribute to the different functions of the hnRNP A1 protein in mRNA maturation.
RNA hydration: a detailed look.	The crystal structure of the RNA duplex [r(CCCCGGGG)]2 has been refined to 1.46 A resolution with room temperature synchrotron diffraction data. This represents the highest resolution reported to date for an all-RNA oligonucleotide and is well beyond the best resolution ever achieved with an A-form DNA duplex. The analysis of the ordered hydration around the octamer duplex reveals conserved regular arrangements of water molecules in both grooves. In the major groove, all located first shell water molecules can be fitted into a pattern that is repeated through all eight base pairs, involves half the phosphate oxygens, and joins the two strands. In the minor groove, roughly across its narrowest dimension, tandem water molecules link the 2'-hydroxyl groups of adjacent nucleotides in base-pair steps in a similarly regular fashion. The structure provides evidence for an important role of the 2'-hydroxyl groups in the thermodynamic stabilization of RNA, beyond their known functions of locking the sugar pucker and mediating 3' --> 5' intrastrand O2'...O4' hydrogen bonds. The ribose 2'-hydroxyls lay the foundation for the enthalpic stability of the RNA relative to the DNA duplex, both as a scaffold for the water network in the minor groove and through their extensive individual hydration.
NMR structure and dynamics of an RNA motif common to the spliceosome branch-point helix and the RNA-binding site for phage GA coat protein.	The RNA molecules that make up the spliceosome branch-point helix and the binding site for phage GA coat protein share a secondary structure motif in which two consecutive adenine residues occupy the strand opposite a single uridine, creating the potential to form one of two different A.U base pairs while leaving the other adenine unpaired or bulged. During the splicing of introns out of pre-mRNA, the 2'-OH of the bulged adenine participates in the transesterification reaction at the 5'-exon and forms the branch-point residue of the lariat intermediate. Either adenine may act as the branch-point residue in mammals, but the 3'-proximal adenine does so preferentially. When bound to phage GA coat protein, the bulged adenine loops out of the helix and occupies a binding pocket on the surface of the protein, forming a nucleation complex for phage assembly. The coat protein can bind helices with bulged adenines at either position, but the 3'-proximal site binds with greater affinity. We have studied this RNA motif in a 21 nucleotide hairpin containing a GA coat protein-binding site whose four nucleotide loop has been replaced by a more stable loop from the related phage Ms2. Using heteronuclear NMR spectroscopy, we have determined the structure of this hairpin to an overall precision of 2.0 A. Both adenine bases stack into the helix, and while all available NOE and coupling constant data are consistent with both possible A.U base pairs, the base pair involving the 5'-proximal adenine appears to be the major conformation. The 3'-proximal bulged adenine protonates at unusually high pH, and to account for this, we propose a model in which the protonated adenine is stabilized by a hydrogen bond to the uridine O2 of the A.U base pair. The 2'-OH of the bulged adenine adopts a regular A-form helical geometry, suggesting that in order to participate in the splicing reaction, the conformation of the branch-point helix in the active spliceosome may change from the conformation described here. Thus, while the adenine site preferences of the spliceosome and of phage GA may be due to protein factors, the preferred adenine is predisposed in the free RNA to conformational rearrangement involved in formation of the active complexes.
A superfamily of proteins that contain the cold-shock domain.	Members of a family of cold-shock proteins (CSPs) are found throughout the eubacterial domain and appear to function as RNA-chaperones. They have been implicated in various cellular processes, including adaptation to low temperatures, cellular growth, nutrient stress and stationary phase. The discovery of a domain--the cold-shock domain--that shows strikingly high homology and similar RNA-binding properties to CSPs in a growing number of eukaryotic nucleic-acid-binding proteins suggests that these proteins have an ancient origin.
Human nucleotide excision repair protein XPA: extended X-ray absorption fine-structure evidence for a metal-binding domain.	The ubiquitous, multi-enzyme, nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathway is responsible for correcting a wide range of chemically and structurally distinct DNA lesions in the eukaryotic genome. Human XPA, a 31 kDa, zinc-associated protein, is thought to play a major NER role in the recognition of damaged DNA and the recruitment of other proteins, including RPA, ERCC1, and TFIIH, to repair the damage. Sequence analyses and genetic evidence suggest that zinc is associated with a C4-type motif, C105-X2-C108-X17-C126-X2-C129, located in the minimal DNA binding region of XPA (M98-F219). The zinc-associated motif is essential for damaged DNA recognition. Extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra collected on the zinc associated minimal DNA-binding domain of XPA (ZnXPA-MBD) show directly, for the first time, that the zinc is coordinated to the sulfur atoms of four cysteine residues with an average Zn-S bond length of 2.34+/-0.01 A. XPA-MBD was also expressed in minimal medium supplemented with cobalt nitrate to yield a blue-colored protein that was primarily (>95%) cobalt associated (CoXPA-MBD). EXAFS spectra collected on CoXPA-MBD show that the cobalt is also coordinated to the sulfur atoms of four cysteine residues with an average Co-S bond length of 2.33+/-0.02 A.
RNA-binding activity of the E1B 55-kilodalton protein from human adenovirus type 5.	The human adenovirus 5 E1B 55-kDa protein is required for efficient nucleocytoplasmic transport of late viral mRNAs. This protein is shown to have RNA-binding activity which maps to a region of the protein with homology to a family of RNA-binding proteins and which has been shown previously to be essential for functionality of the protein in vivo.
IRP-1 binding to ferritin mRNA prevents the recruitment of the small ribosomal subunit by the cap-binding complex eIF4F.	Binding of iron regulatory proteins (IRPs) to IREs located in proximity to the cap structure of ferritin H- and L-chain mRNAs blocks ferritin synthesis by preventing the recruitment of the small ribosomal subunit to the mRNA. We have devised a novel procedure to examine the assembly of translation initiation factors (eIFs) on regulated mRNAs. Unexpectedly, we find that the cap binding complex eIF4F (comprising eIF4E, eIF4G, and eIF4A) assembles even when IRP-1 is bound to the cap-proximal IRE. This assembly is futile, because bridging interactions between eIF4F and the small ribosomal subunit cannot be established in the presence of IRP-1. Our findings provide insight into translational control by an mRNA binding protein at the level of translation initiation factors and uncover a key regulatory step in iron homeostasis.
Identification and characterization of the human HCG V gene product as a novel inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1.	The catalytic subunit of mammalian protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) is known to bind to a number of regulatory subunits, whose functions include the targeting of the catalytic subunit to the molecular proximity of its substrate proteins. In addition, PP1 is potently inhibited by several inhibitory polypeptides that include inhibitor-1 and inhibitor-2. In this study the yeast two-hybrid system was used to screen a human cDNA library for putative PP1-binding proteins. Ten putative positive clones were identified, one of which was found to be a partial cDNA of the hemochromatosis candidate gene V (HCG V) whose function was previously unknown. The full-length protein of 126 amino acid residues was expressed in Escherichia coli as a glutathione S-transferase fusion protein and also as a nonfusion protein. The recombinant protein inhibited recombinant and rabbit muscle protein phosphatase-1 with IC50s of ca. 1 nM, but did not inhibit PP2A. The term inhibitor-3 is proposed for this novel inhibitor. It is extremely hydrophilic, is heat stable, and behaves anomalously on SDS-PAGE with an apparent molecular mass of 23 kDa and on gel filtration with a relative molecular weight of 55 000, in contrast to its calculated molecular mass of 14 kDa. These characteristics are shared by the previously described protein phosphatase-1 inhibitor-2 and inhibitor-1 proteins.
Crystal structure of methionyl-tRNAfMet transformylase complexed with the initiator formyl-methionyl-tRNAfMet.	The crystal structure of Escherichia coli methionyl-tRNAfMet transformylase complexed with formyl-methionyl-tRNAfMet was solved at 2.8 A resolution. The formylation reaction catalyzed by this enzyme irreversibly commits methionyl-tRNAfMet to initiation of translation in eubacteria. In the three-dimensional model, the methionyl-tRNAfMet formyltransferase fills in the inside of the L-shaped tRNA molecule on the D-stem side. The anticodon stem and loop are away from the protein. An enzyme loop is wedged in the major groove of the acceptor helix. As a result, the C1-A72 mismatch characteristic of the initiator tRNA is split and the 3' arm bends inside the active centre. This recognition mechanism is markedly distinct from that of elongation factor Tu, which binds the acceptor arm of aminoacylated elongator tRNAs on the T-stem side.
The snRNP-free U1A (SF-A) complex(es): identification of the largest subunit as PSF, the polypyrimidine-tract binding protein-associated splicing factor.	We have previously shown that a specific monoclonal antibody prepared against the U1A protein, MAb 12E12, is unique in its ability to recognize a form of U1A which is not associated with the U1snRNP. This unique form of U1A, termed snRNP-free U1A or SF-A, was found to be complexed with a novel set of non-snRNP proteins (O'Connor et al., 1997, RNA 3:1444-1455). Here we demonstrate that the largest protein in these SF-A complex(es), p105, is the polypyrimidine-tract binding protein-associated factor (PSF), an auxiliary splicing factor. We show that PSF copurifies and co-immunoprecipitates with SF-A from 293T cell nucleoplasm and that it interacts with SF-A in vitro. In addition, we show that MAb 12E12 inhibits both splicing and polyadenylation in an in vitro coupled splicing and polyadenylation reaction. This suggests that SF-A and/or the SF-A complex(es) perform an important function in both processing reactions and possibly in last exon definition.
Cbf5p, a potential pseudouridine synthase, and Nhp2p, a putative RNA-binding protein, are present together with Gar1p in all H BOX/ACA-motif snoRNPs and constitute a common bipartite structure.	The eukaryotic nucleolus contains a large number of small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) that are involved in preribosomal RNA (pre-rRNA) processing. The H box/ACA-motif (H/ACA) class of snoRNAs has recently been demonstrated to function as guide RNAs targeting specific uridines in the pre-rRNA for pseudouridine (psi) synthesis. To characterize the protein components of this class of snoRNPs, we have purified the snR42 and snR30 snoRNP complexes by anti-m3G-immunoaffinity and Mono-Q chromatography of Saccharomyces cerevisiae extracts. Sequence analysis of the individual polypeptides demonstrated that the three proteins Gar1p, Nhp2p, and Cbf5p are common to both the snR30 and snR42 complexes. Nhp2p is a highly basic protein that belongs to a family of putative RNA-binding proteins. Cbf5p has recently been demonstrated to be involved in ribosome biogenesis and also shows striking homology with known prokaryotic psi synthases. The presence of Cbf5p, a putative psi synthase in each H/ACA snoRNP suggests that this class of RNPs functions as individual modification enzymes. Immunoprecipitation studies using either anti-Cbf5p antibodies or a hemagglutinin-tagged Nhp2p demonstrated that both proteins are associated with all H/ACA-motif snoRNPs. In vivo depletion of Nhp2p results in a reduction in the steady-state levels of all H/ACA snoRNAs. Electron microscopy of purified snR42 and snR30 particles revealed that these two snoRNPs possess a similar bipartite structure that we propose to be a major structural determining principle for all H/ACA snoRNPs.
Homology modeling of an RNP domain from a human RNA-binding protein: Homology-constrained energy optimization provides a criterion for distinguishing potential sequence alignments.	We have recently described an automated approach for homology modeling using restrained molecular dynamics and simulated annealing procedures (Li et al, Protein Sci., 6:956-970,1997). We have employed this approach for constructing a homology model of the putative RNA-binding domain of the human RNA-binding protein with multiple splice sites (RBP-MS). The regions of RBP-MS which are homologous to the template protein snRNP U1A were constrained by "homology distance constraints," while the conformation of the non-homologous regions were defined only by a potential energy function. A full energy function without explicit solvent was employed to ensure that the calculated structures have good conformational energies and are physically reasonable. The effects of mis-alignment of the unknown and the template sequences were also explored in order to determine the feasibility of this homology modeling method for distinguishing possible sequence alignments based on considerations of the resulting conformational energies of modeled structures. Differences in the alignments of the unknown and the template sequences result in significant differences in the conformational energies of the calculated homology models. These results suggest that conformational energies and residual constraint violations in these homology-constrained simulated annealing calculations can be used as criteria to distinguish between correct and incorrect sequence alignments and chain folds.
Identification of a novel mRNA-associated protein in oocytes of Pleurodeles waltl and Xenopus laevis.	Amphibian oocytes accumulate a large pool of mRNA molecules for future embryonic development. Due to their association with specific proteins the stored maternal RNAs are translationally repressed. The identification of these RNA-binding proteins and the characterization of their functional domains may contribute to the understanding of the translational repression mechanisms and the subsequent activation processes during early embryogenesis. Here we present the complete Pleurodeles cDNA sequence of a cytoplasmic protein which is present in oocytes, eggs, and very early cleavage stage embryos but undetectable in postcleavage embryo and adult tissues. The predicted molecular mass of the protein is 55 kDa and the apparent molecular mass as determined by SDS-PAGE, 68 kDa. The deduced amino acid sequence reveals proline- and serine-rich domains in the aminoterminal part as well as two RGG boxes which represent characteristic motifs of several RNA-binding proteins. No distinct homologies to the consensus RNA recognition motif were found. The 55-kDa protein was recovered in cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein (RNP) particles containing poly(A)+ RNA. It was therefore termed RAP55 for mRNA-associated protein of 55 kDa. However, a direct interaction of RAP55 with mRNA could not be demonstrated by UV-crosslinking experiments, indicating that it is bound to mRNP complexes via protein-protein interactions. RAP55 is evolutionarily conserved since antibodies raised against a recombinant Pleurodeles RAP55 fragment recognize the protein from Pleurodeles and Xenopus. The expression pattern and intracellular distribution of RAP55 suggest that it is part of those mRNP particles which are translationally repressed during oogenesis and become activated upon progesterone-induced oocyte maturation.
Molecular basis of double-stranded RNA-protein interactions: structure of a dsRNA-binding domain complexed with dsRNA.	Protein interactions with double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) are critical for many cell processes; however, in contrast to protein-dsDNA interactions, surprisingly little is known about the molecular basis of protein-dsRNA interactions. A large and diverse class of proteins that bind dsRNA do so by utilizing an approximately 70 amino acid motif referred to as the dsRNA-binding domain (dsRBD). We have determined a 1.9 A resolution crystal structure of the second dsRBD of Xenopus laevis RNA-binding protein A complexed with dsRNA. The structure shows that the protein spans 16 bp of dsRNA, interacting with two successive minor grooves and across the intervening major groove on one face of a primarily A-form RNA helix. The nature of these interactions explains dsRBD specificity for dsRNA (over ssRNA or dsDNA) and the apparent lack of sequence specificity. Interestingly, the dsRBD fold resembles a portion of the conserved core structure of a family of polynucleotidyl transferases that includes RuvC, MuA transposase, retroviral integrase and RNase H. Structural comparisons of the dsRBD-dsRNA complex and models proposed for polynucleotidyl transferase-nucleic acid complexes suggest that similarities in nucleic acid binding also exist between these families of proteins.
Orf virus encodes a homolog of the vaccinia virus interferon-resistance gene E3L.	A homolog of the vaccinia virus (VAC) interferon resistance gene E3L has been discovered in orf virus strain NZ-2, a parapoxvirus that infects sheep, goats and humans. The gene is located 20 kb from the left terminus of the orf virus genome and is transcribed towards this terminus. RNase protection studies have been used to define the limits of the gene and Northern analysis revealed that it is expressed early in infection. The predicted amino acid sequence of the orf virus protein shares 31% identity (57% similarity) with the VAC E3L protein. Four of the six residues identified as being essential to dsRNA binding in the vaccinia virus protein are conserved in the orf virus protein whilst the other two amino acid changes are conservative substitutions. The orf virus gene has been sequenced in two other orf virus strains which vary markedly in their ability to produce experimental lesions in vivo. Their predicted protein sequences vary by less than 3% from the NZ-2 protein. The recombinant orf virus protein, expressed as a fusion protein in E. coli, bound double-stranded (ds)RNA but not dsDNA, single-stranded (ss)DNA or ssRNA . This is the first demonstration of a VAC E3L-like gene encoded by a parapoxvirus.
Novel role of phosphorylation in Fe-S cluster stability revealed by phosphomimetic mutations at Ser-138 of iron regulatory protein 1.	Animals regulate iron metabolism largely through the action of the iron regulatory proteins (IRPs). IRPs modulate mRNA utilization by binding to iron-responsive elements (IRE) in the 5' or 3' untranslated region of mRNAs encoding proteins involved in iron homeostasis or energy production. IRP1 is also the cytosolic isoform of aconitase. The activities of IRP1 are mutually exclusive and are modulated through the assembly/disassembly of its [4Fe-4S] cluster, reversibly converting it between an IRE-binding protein and cytosolic aconitase. IRP1 is also phosphoregulated by protein kinase C, but the mechanism by which phosphorylation posttranslationally increases IRE binding activity has not been fully defined. To investigate this, Ser-138 (S138), a PKC phosphorylation site, was mutated to phosphomimetic glutamate (S138E), aspartate (S138D), or nonphosphorylatable alanine (S138A). The S138E IRP1 mutant and, to a lesser extent, the S138D IRP1 mutant were impaired in aconitase function in yeast when grown aerobically but not when grown anaerobically. Purified wild-type and mutant IRP1s could be reconstituted to active aconitases anaerobically. However, when exposed to oxygen, the [4Fe-4S] cluster of the S138D and S138E mutants decayed 5-fold and 20-fold faster, respectively, than was observed for wild-type IRP1. Our findings suggest that stability of the Fe-S cluster of IRP1 can be regulated by phosphorylation and reveal a mechanism whereby the balance between the IRE binding and [4Fe-4S] forms of IRP1 can be modulated independently of cellular iron status. Furthermore, our results show that IRP1 can function as an oxygen-modulated posttranscriptional regulator of gene expression.
HNS, a nuclear-cytoplasmic shuttling sequence in HuR.	Proteins are transported into and out of the cell nucleus via specific signals. The two best-studied nuclear transport processes are mediated either by classical nuclear localization signals or nuclear export signals. There also are shuttling sequences that direct the bidirectional transport of RNA-binding proteins. Two examples are the M9 sequence in heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A1 and the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K shuttling domain (KNS) sequence in heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K, both of which appear to contribute importantly to the export of mRNA to the cytoplasm. HuR is an RNA-binding protein that can stabilize labile mRNAs containing AU-rich elements in their 3' untranslated regions and has been shown to shuttle between the nucleus and cytoplasm (18, 19). We have identified in HuR a shuttling sequence that also possess transcription-dependent nuclear localization signal activity. We propose that HuR first may bind AU-rich element-containing mRNAs in the nucleus and then escort them through the nuclear pore, providing protection during and after export to the cytoplasmic compartment.
The crystal structure of ribosomal protein L22 from Thermus thermophilus: insights into the mechanism of erythromycin resistance.	. The ribosomal protein L22 is one of five proteins necessary for the formation of an early folding intermediate of the 23S rRNA. L22 has been found on the cytoplasmic side of the 50S ribosomal subunit. It can also be labeled by an erythromycin derivative bound close to the peptidyl-transfer center at the interface side of the 50S subunit, and the amino acid sequence of an erythromycin-resistant mutant is known. Knowing the structure of the protein may resolve this apparent conflict regarding the location of L22 on the ribosome.
