Prevalence-value-accuracy plots: a new method for comparing diagnostic tests based on misclassification costs.	The clinical accuracy of diagnostic tests commonly is assessed by ROC analysis. ROC plots, however, do not directly incorporate the effect of prevalence or the value of the possible test outcomes on test performance, which are two important factors in the practical utility of a diagnostic test. We describe a new graphical method, referred to as a prevalence-value-accuracy (PVA) plot analysis, which includes, in addition to accuracy, the effect of prevalence and the cost of misclassifications (false positives and false negatives) in the comparison of diagnostic test performance. PVA plots are contour plots that display the minimum cost attributable to misclassifications (z-axis) at various optimum decision thresholds over a range of possible values for prevalence (x-axis) and the unit cost ratio (UCR; y-axis), which is an index of the cost of a false-positive vs a false-negative test result. Another index based on the cost of misclassifications can be derived from PVA plots for the quantitative comparison of test performance. Depending on the region of the PVA plot that is used to calculate the misclassification cost index, it can potentially lead to a different interpretation than the ROC area index on the relative value of different tests. A PVA-threshold plot, which is a variation of a PVA plot, is also described for readily identifying the optimum decision threshold at any given prevalence and UCR. In summary, the advantages of PVA plot analysis are the following: (a) it directly incorporates the effect of prevalence and misclassification costs in the analysis of test performance; (b) it yields a quantitative index based on the costs of misclassifications for comparing diagnostic tests; (c) it provides a way to restrict the comparison of diagnostic test performance to a clinically relevant range of prevalence and UCR; and (d) it can be used to directly identify an optimum decision threshold based on prevalence and misclassification costs.
Optimization of allopurinol challenge: sample purification, protein intake control, and the use of orotidine response as a discriminative variable improve performance of the test for diagnosing ornithine carbamoyltransferase deficiency.	The diagnosis of heterozygosity for X-linked ornithine carbamoyltransferase (OCT) deficiency has usually been based on measurement of the increase of orotate and orotidine excretion after an allopurinol load. We examined the choices of analyte, cutoff, and test conditions to obtain maximal test accuracy.
Quantitative bedside assay for cardiac troponin T: a complementary method to centralized laboratory testing.	In the evaluation of chest pain patients, whole blood bedside assays of highly specific cardiac molecules may be an attractive alternative to centralized clinical chemistry testing. We now report on an optimized test strip device for cardiac troponin T (cTnT) that can be analyzed by a cardiac reader for quantitative assessment of the test result.
Results of a prospective multicenter study for evaluation of the diagnostic quality of an open whole-body low-field MRI unit. A comparison with high-field MRI measured by the applicable gold standard.	To evaluate the diagnostic quality of an open whole-body low-field MRI scanner compared to high-field scanners.
Are most ICU infections really nosocomial? A prospective observational cohort study in mechanically ventilated patients.	A prospective cohort study was undertaken with two end points: (i) to compare the 48 h time cut-off with the carrier state criterion for classifying infections, and (ii) to determine a time cut-off more in line with the carrier state concept. All patients admitted to the intensive care unit and expected to require mechanical ventilation for a period > or = 3 days were enrolled. Surveillance cultures of throat and rectum were obtained on admission and thereafter twice weekly to distinguish micro-organisms that were imported into the intensive care unit from those acquired during the stay in the unit. A total of 117 patients with median age of 61 years and median Simplified Acute Physiology Score II of 42, were included in the study. Of these patients, 48 (41%) developed a total of 74 infection episodes. Using the 48 h cut-off point, 80% of all infections were classified as ICU-acquired. According to the carrier state criterion, 44 infections (60%) were of primary endogenous development caused by micro-organisms imported into the intensive care unit. Seventeen secondary endogenous (23%) and 13 exogenous (17%) infections were caused by bacteria acquired in the unit. The carrier state classification allowed the transfer of 49% of infections from the ICU-acquired group into the import group. A time cut-off of nine days was found to identify ICU-acquired infections better than two days. These data suggest that monitoring of carriage of micro-organisms may be a more realistic approach to classify infections developing in the intensive care unit.
Progressive liver functional impairment is associated with an increase in AST/ALT ratio.	The ratio of serum aspartate aminotransferase to alanine aminotransferase (AST/ALT ratio) has been proposed as a noninvasive method of assessing liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. Our aims were to confirm the usefulness of the AST/ALT ratio in diagnosing cirrhosis noninvasively as well as to verify the existence of a relationship between the ratio and liver functional impairment. In all, 348 patients (177 with chronic hepatitis, 171 with cirrhosis) were retrospectively evaluated and the AST/ALT ratio was related to monoethyl glycine xylidide (MEGX) formation. Moreover, in a subgroup of 54 patients we analyzed the relationships among the AST/ALT ratio and indocyanine green clearance and half-life. The AST/ALT ratio was able to separate patients with mild fibrosis from those with severe fibrosis and cirrhosis. The AST/ALT ratio, MEGX, prothrombin activity, and platelet count were selected by multivariate analysis as variables associated with cirrhosis. The AST/ALT ratio showed significant correlations both with MEGX formation and with indocyanine green clearance and half-life. The alterations of indocyanine green kinetics, which depend upon liver blood flow and uptake, were likely due to progressive fibrosis. These findings might partially explain the increase in the AST/ALT ratio as disease progresses.
Artificial neural networks: a potential role in osteoporosis.	Artificial neural networks are computer software systems that recognize patterns in complex data sets. A recent development in neural computing, multiversion systems (MVS), has led to enhanced analytical power, and this was harnessed to demonstrate the value of risk factors in predicting the result of osteoporosis investigations by quantitative ultrasound. 274 women were screened in an open-access osteoporosis service. A conventional risk factor questionnaire was completed for each patient by the osteoporosis specialist nurse. An MVS was trained on 180 randomly selected data sets and tested on the remaining 94. The results were compared with those from logistic regression analysis in predictive power, both from the selected 20-item questionnaire and for a limited 5-item questionnaire comprising age, height, height loss, weight and years since the menopause. The MVS approach predicted the T-score categorization of the patients from the 20-item questionnaire with 83.0% accuracy, whereas logistic regression yielded an accuracy of only 72.8% (P = 0.04). From the 5-item database the MVS yielded a best prediction accuracy of 73.1%, whereas the logistic regression prediction accuracy was 60% (P = 0.04). These results suggest that 20 risk factors can be used by an MVS to predict the outcome of osteoporosis investigations with a power that outperforms conventional statistical methods. Use of this system may improve the selection of patients for osteoporosis investigations, since even with only 5 risk factors the system performs nearly as well as that based on the full 20 factors.
Plasma lactate concentration as a predictor of gastric necrosis and survival among dogs with gastric dilatation-volvulus: 102 cases (1995-1998).	To determine relationships between plasma lactate concentration and gastric necrosis and between plasma lactate concentration and outcome for dogs with gastric dilatation-volvulus.
A comparison of some simple methods to identify geographical areas with excess incidence of a rare disease such as childhood leukaemia.	Six statistics are compared in a simulation study for their ability to identify geographical areas with a known excess incidence of a rare disease. The statistics are the standardized incidence ratio, the empirical Bayes method of Clayton and Kaldor, Poisson probability, a statistic based on the 'Breslow T' test (BT) and two statistics based on the 'Potthoff-Whittinghill' test (PW) for extra-Poisson variance. Two alternative processes of clustering are simulated in which high-risk locations could be caused by environmental sources or could be sites of microepidemics of an infectious agent contributing to a rare disease such as childhood leukaemia. The simulation processes use two parameters (proportion of cases found in clusters and mean cluster size) which are varied to embrace a variety of situations. Real and artificial data sets of small area populations are considered. The most extreme of the artificial sets has all areas of equal population size. The other data sets use the small census areas (municipalities) in Finland since these have extremely heterogeneous population size distribution. Subset selection allows examination of this variability. Receiver operator curve methodology is used to compare the efficacy of the statistics in identifying the cluster areas; statistics are compared for the proportion of true high-risk areas identified in the top 1 per cent and 10 per cent of ranked areas. One of the PW statistics performed consistently well under all circumstances, although the results for the BT statistic were marginally better when only the top 1 per cent of ranked areas was considered. The standardized incidence ratio performed consistently worst.
The Even Briefer Assessment Scale for Depression (EBAS DEP): its suitability for the elderly in geriatric care in English- and German-speaking countries.	To determine the psychometric properties of the Even Briefer Assessment Scale for Depression (EBAS DEP) developed by Allen et al. (1994) among samples of the German elderly and compare the results with those from English-speaking countries.
Fat-suppressed T2-weighted MR imaging of hepatocellular carcinoma and metastases: comparison of conventional spin-echo, fast spin-echo, and echoplanar pulse sequences.	The purpose of our study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of fat-suppressed T2-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) images obtained with conventional spin-echo (SE), respiratory-triggered fast SE, and breath-hold multishot SE echoplanar (EP) sequences for the detection of hepatocellular carcinoma and metastases. Images obtained with the three sequences in 17 patients (15 with cirrhosis) with 31 hepatocellular carcinomas and 14 patients with 45 metastases were retrospectively analyzed. Image review was conducted on a segment-by-segment basis; in all, 248 liver segments were reviewed separately and independently for detection of solid, malignant lesions. Diagnostic accuracy was evaluated with receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Diagnostic accuracy for hepatocellular carcinoma as determined by ROC curve analysis was better by a statistically significant amount for conventional SE (Az = 0.95) images when compared with respiratory-triggered fast SE (Az = 0.83, P < 0.05) and breath-hold multishot SE EP (Az = 0.80, P < 0.05) images. Conventional SE MR sequences should not be replaced with respiratory-triggered fast SE or breath-hold multishot SE EP sequences for T2-weighted MR imaging of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma in cirrhosis, unless sufficient contrast-enhanced dynamic MR imaging is subsequently performed.
Risk stratification of emergency department patients with acute coronary syndromes using P-selectin.	We compared the predictive properties of P-selectin to creatine kinase, MB fraction (CK-MB) for detecting acute myocardial infarction (AMI), acute coronary syndromes (ACS) and serious cardiac events upon emergency department (ED) arrival.
Improvement of left ventricular ejection fraction, heart failure symptoms and prognosis after revascularization in patients with chronic coronary artery disease and viable myocardium detected by dobutamine stress echocardiography.	This study was designed to address, in patients with severe ischemic left ventricular dysfunction, whether dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) can predict improvement of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), functional status and long-term prognosis after revascularization.
Screening for major depression disorders in adolescent medical outpatients with the Beck Depression Inventory for Primary Care.	To ascertain the psychometric characteristics of the Beck Depression Inventory for Primary Care (BDI-PC) among adolescents (12-17 years old) scheduled for health maintenance examinations, and to determine the effectiveness of the BDI-PC in screening the adolescents for Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, major depression disorders (MDD).
The pitfalls of planar three-phase bone scintigraphy in nontraumatic hip avascular osteonecrosis.	This study documented the previously reported lower sensitivity of routine planar three-phase bone scintigraphy (BS) performed using a high-resolution parallel-hole collimator compared with MRI to diagnose nontraumatic avascular necrosis of the hip (AVN).
Serum CA-125 values on the day of oocyte retrieval are not predictive of subsequent pregnancy with in-vitro fertilization.	In the clinical management of in-vitro fertilization (IVF) patients it would be very useful to know, before the embryo transfer, whether or not there is a significant chance of pregnancy in that cycle. If low, it would be better to freeze the embryos and postpone the embryo transfer to a subsequent cycle. For this reason, a retrospective study was carried out to investigate the correlations between the serum CA-125 values before embryo transfer and the clinical outcome of that IVF cycle. Women aged <40 years undergoing a complete infertility evaluation including laparoscopy and receiving gonadotrophin-releasing hormone analogue (GnRHa) suppression followed by purified follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) for IVF-embryo transfer were entered into the study. Ninety-seven cycles qualified for evaluation (26 pregnant and 71 non-pregnant cycles). CA-125 concentrations on the day of oocyte retrieval were significantly lower in the pregnant versus non-pregnant cycles in both non-endometriosis and endometriosis patients. To evaluate the existence of a cut-off value of CA-125 which would allow the prediction of a possible pregnancy with sufficient specificity and sensitivity, a receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was performed. This analysis demonstrated the absence of any predictive value of the subsequent pregnancy for CA-125 concentrations. For this reason, and in contrast with previous findings, CA-125 determinations before the embryo transfer in IVF patients do not appear to be a useful tool for clinicians to use in predicting the outcome of IVF in any given cycle.
Detection of specific antibodies to Plasmodium falciparum in blood bank donors from malaria-endemic and non-endemic areas of Venezuela.	Malaria antibody detection is valuable in providing retrospective confirmation of an attack of malaria. Blood bank screening is another area were malaria serology is potentially useful. In the present study, we tested the presence of antibodies to Plasmodium falciparum in sera from blood bank donors of non-endemic and malaria-endemic areas of Venezuela. Sera from 1,000 blood donors were tested by an indirect immunofluorescent antibody (IFA) assay and an IgG-ELISA for the presence of malaria antibodies using a synchronized in vitro-cultured Venezuelan isolate of P. falciparum as the antigen source. A selected group of positive and negative sera (n = 100) was also tested by a dot-IgG-ELISA. Positive results (reciprocal titer > or = 40) were found in 0.8% and 3.8% of blood donors when tested by the IFA assay and in 0.8% and 2% (optical density > or = 0.2) when tested by the IgG-ELISA in Caracas (non-endemic area) and Bolivar City (endemic area), respectively. The presence of anti-malarial antibodies in some sera from non-endemic areas such as Caracas reflects the increased potential risk of post-transfusional malaria in those areas due to the mobility of the blood donors. The data obtained indicate the need to implement new blood donor policy in blood banks in developing areas. Our results also indicate that the IFA assay is the most reliable test to use in malaria serodiagnosis.
The value of gamma-seminoprotein in combination with prostate specific antigen in detecting prostate cancer.	The present study was undertaken to investigate the value of gamma-seminoprotein (gamma-Sm) and the gamma-Sm/prostate specific antigen (PSA) ratio in combination with serum PSA in detecting prostate cancer.
Incidence of and preoperative predictors for delirium after cardiac surgery.	Incidence of and preoperative predictors for postoperative delirium were studied in 296 patients (age 26-83 years, mean age 63 years) undergoing elective cardiac surgery. Delirium occurred in 40 (13.5%) patients. Predictors included old age, low level of albumin, poor physical condition, use of nifedipine, and a high ratio of the amino acids phenylalanine to the sum of isoleucine, leucine, valine, tyrosine, and tryptophan. These findings suggest that preoperative physical condition and amino acid disturbances may be related to delirium after cardiac surgery in the elderly.
A double-blind study of capacitively coupled electrical stimulation as an adjunct to lumbar spinal fusions.	A randomized double-blind prospective comparison with a placebo control. This report of the results is the first in an ongoing study.
Prediction of coronary heart disease mortality in blacks and whites: pooled data from two national cohorts.	Statistical models used to predict personal risk of death from coronary heart disease (CHD) have been based on studies among white populations. We compared the predictive functions derived from black and white men and women, using the pooled data of 2 national cohorts: the First National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES I) Epidemiologic Follow-up Study and the Second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES II) Mortality Study. The participants included 6,937 white men, 940 black men, 9,202 white women, and 1,463 black women aged 30 to 74 years who were free of CHD at baseline. The 2 cohorts were followed for 20 and 15 years, respectively. There were no significant differences between blacks and whites in the magnitude of the Cox coefficients for most of the personal risk factors (i.e., age, systolic blood pressure, serum total cholesterol, smoking, and diabetes mellitus status) for men and women. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses, with all risk factors considered collectively, suggest that the models have similar ability to rank personal relative risk among blacks and whites. The areas under the ROC curve were 0.77 and 0.76 for white and black men, respectively, and 0.84 and 0.82 for white and black women, respectively. However, the equation derived from white men overestimated the 15-year cumulative CHD mortality in black men by about 60%. Thus, predictive functions derived from 1 demographic group (e.g., whites) can be applied to another subgroup (e.g., blacks) to rank personal risk. However, prediction of absolute risk is less accurate.
Selecting diagnostic tests for ruling out or ruling in disease: the use of the Kullback-Leibler distance.	To select a proper diagnostic test, it is recommended that the most specific test be used to confirm (rule in) a diagnosis, and the most sensitive test be used to establish that a disease is unlikely (rule out). These rule-in and rule-out concepts can also be characterized by the likelihood ratio (LR). However, previous papers discussed only the case of binary tests and assumed test results already known.
A new strategy for the application of CA19-9 in the differentiation of pancreaticobiliary cancer: analysis using a receiver operating characteristic curve.	Clinicians might be misled in interpreting an elevated CA19-9 when differentiating pancreaticobiliary cancer from benign clinical conditions such as acute cholangitis or cholestasis, because in these conditions, the concentration of CA19-9 may also be elevated. The aims of our study were to calculate new individual cutoff values for CA19-9 according to clinical situations using a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and to define a new strategy for interpreting CA19-9 in pancreaticobiliary cancer.
Risk stratification after acute myocardial infarction by Doppler stroke distance measurement.	To establish the value of Doppler stroke distance measurement as a predictor of mortality risk following acute myocardial infarction.
Accuracy of MR imaging in the work-up of suspicious breast lesions: a diagnostic meta-analysis.	The authors performed a systematic, critical review of the literature on magnetic resonance (MR) imaging for primary breast cancer detection in patients with suspicious breast lesions, analyzed MR test performance in the articles meeting study criteria, and used this information to examine the cost-effectiveness of preoperative MR imaging.
Influence of film and monitor display luminance on observer performance and visual search.	The purpose of this study was to measure the influence of display luminance on detection performance and visual search behavior. The results of the study should be helpful in establishing minimally acceptable display conditions for viewing radiographs on cathode-ray tube (CRT) monitors.
Screening for asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnant women: urinalysis versus urine culture.	A diagnostic test study was conducted to evaluate the diagnostic performance of a simple urinalysis as a screening test for asymptomatic bacteriuria (ABU) in pregnant women. Seven hundred and seventy four asymptomatic pregnant women attending their first antenatal care at Srinagarind Hospital from June 1, 1994 to January 31, 1995 were studied. Simple urinalysis and urine culture were performed on all 774 subjects. The presence of > or = 5 WBC/HPF of centrifuged urine indicated a positive test. ABU was defined as the presence of > or = 10(5) colony forming units of single bacteria per milliliter of urine. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and accuracy of simple urinalysis in detecting ABU, using urine culture as a gold standard were calculated. Simple urinalysis had a 18.4 per cent sensitivity, 97.2 per cent specificity, 45.7 per cent positive predictive value, 90.4 per cent negative predictive value and 88.4 per cent accuracy in detecting ABU. Because of its low sensitivity and the possible consequences of ABU, simple urinalysis should not be used as a screening test for ABU.
Clinical importance of fetal pulse oximetry. II. Comparative predictive values of oximetry and scalp pH. Multicenter study]	To compare the predictive value of intrapartum fetal pulse oximetry to that of fetal blood analysis for an abnormal neonatal outcome in case of abnormal fetal heart rate (FHR).
Lens culinaris agglutinin-reactive alpha-fetoprotein, an alternative variant to alpha-fetoprotein in prenatal screening for Down's syndrome.	Three serum tests, alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), human chorionic gonadotrophin and unconjugated oestriol, are now widely used for screening for Down's syndrome. Lens culinaris agglutinin-reactive alpha-fetoprotein (AFP-L3) is a variant of alpha-fetoprotein with alpha1-->6 fucose appended to the reducing terminal N-acetylglucosamine. It is the most prominent AFP detected in the serum of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.
Serum tumour markers CA 15-3, TPA, TPS, hCGbeta and TATI in the monitoring of chemotherapy response in metastatic breast cancer.	The clinical utility of CA 15-3, polypeptide specific antigen (TPS), tissue polypeptide antigen (TPA), human chorionic gonadotropin (hCGbeta) and tumour-associated trypsin inhibitor (TATI) as indicators of chemotherapy response was assessed in advanced breast cancer. Serum was prospectively collected in one center before treatment (after the first course of chemotherapy) and at response evaluation from 57 patients taking part in a multicentre randomized trial comparing docetaxel with sequential methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil in the treatment of advanced breast cancer. The pretreatment levels of the serum markers were not predictors of the later response to treatment. Changes in the TPS level showed the strongest association with clinical response after the first course of chemotherapy and CA 15-3 at the best response evaluation. However, distinct mismatches occurred with every marker. The most problematic error was an increase in marker levels in patients with clinical responses, which might have caused interruption of therapy. This occurred in 8% and 17% of patients after the first course of chemotherapy and in 4% and 17% of patients at the best response evaluation with CA 15-3 and TPS, respectively. Moreover, after the first course of chemotherapy only 39% and 33% of the patients with progressive disease could be identified on the basis of increasing levels of CA 15-3 and TPS. respectively. Later, at clinical disease progression, TPA and TPS were found to be better indicators of disease progression than CA 15-3. In conclusion, changes in CA 15-3 or TPS levels usually correlate with clinical response, but owing to distinct discordances, they should not be used as sole indicators of response to chemotherapy in advanced breast cancer.
Effect of early patient enrollment on the time to completion and publication of randomized controlled trials.	The authors evaluated whether early enrollment affects the significance of the results and the time to completion and publication of randomized controlled trials. Seventy-seven efficacy randomized controlled trials (total enrollment, 28,992 patients) initiated by the Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome Clinical Trials Group between 1986 and 1996 were evaluated. After adjustment for target sample size, for each 10-fold increase in the first-month accrual, the odds of a trial reaching statistically significant results increased 2.8-fold (p = 0.040). The relative enrollment during the first month over target sample size (hazard ratio (HR) = 1.40 per 10 percent increase, p = 0.004) and masking (HR = 1.78 for double-blind vs. single or unblinded studies, p = 0.031) were the major predictors of faster completion. Rapid early accrual (HR = 1.09 per 10 additional patients accrued the first month, p = 0.011) and statistical significance in favor of an experimental arm (HR = 2.47, p = 0.004) independently predicted faster publication. Early enrollment is a strong predictor of whether a study will reach formal statistical significance, and it can offer predictive information on the time needed to complete the study and publish its findings. Ongoing unpublished studies and their enrollment rates may need to be considered when interpreting the accumulated evidence.
Optimal stimulus level conditions for measurements of distortion product otoacoustic emissions.	Distortion product otoacoustic emission (DPOAE) is a tool for an objective examination of the cochlea function. While the clinical application of DPOEA test is in progress, the measurements vary depending on the stimulus conditions. We aimed to determine the most appropriate stimulus level in the clinical application of DPOAE test.
Clinical relevance of distortion product emissions by means of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis.	The clinical use of distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE) stems from the observation that the outer hair cells are the most vulnerable part of the cochlea, and damage to these cells is associated with hearing loss and loss of DPOAE. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the applicability of DPOAE in predicting hearing thresholds under clinical conditions. DPOAE measurements (L1 = L2 = 70 dB SPL. f2/f1 = 1.20) of 219 hearing-impaired and normal hearing ears were analyzed. Recordings were acquired for DPOAE at 2 f1-f2 varying from 635 to 4052 Hz. The detectability of DPOAE in hearing-impaired subjects exhibited a strong hearing threshold dependence. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis yielded the highest sensitivity and specificity for threshold levels of about 30 dB at low frequencies and for threshold levels of about 60 dB at high frequencies. In addition, the separability of groups with different hearing status was more reliable at high frequencies as compared to low frequencies. The DPOAE provide an objective assessment of cochlear function. However, prognosis of hearing thresholds on the basis of DPOAE measurements depends strongly on the test frequency and is associated with large errors. Hence, the clinical use of DPOAE in predicting hearing thresholds is limited.
Value of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and cholesterol assays of ascitic fluid in cases of inconclusive cytology.	To determine whether assays of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and cholesterol in ascites add diagnostic value to cytology.
A new method to measure plasma levels of activated protein C in complex with protein C inhibitor in patients with acute coronary syndromes.	Our newly devised immunofluorometric sandwich assay for measuring plasma concentrations of activated protein C (APC) in complex with protein C inhibitor (PCI) was compared with testing for conventional markers of myocardial damage CKMB (creatine kinase MB), TNI (troponin I) and hypercoagulability (D-dimer, TAT) in 76 patients with suspected myocardial infarction (MI). APC-PCI complex levels in samples drawn on admission did not correlate with CKMB in the simultaneously drawn sample but correlated closely with maximal CKMB, which reflects MI size (r = 0.52). The areas under the receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curves calculated for the APC-PCI complex results obtained upon admission did not differ significantly from the corresponding values for CKMB, TNI or TAT. Our results show that in patients at risk for MI, the APC-PCI concentration is a sensitive and independent marker that can identify a subgroup of MI patients with normal CKMB but an increased APC-PCI level upon admission. It remains to be determined whether these patients would benefit from early intensive anticoagulant treatment.
Clinical prediction of lower limb deep vein thrombosis in symptomatic hospitalized patients.	We evaluated two clinical scores for the prediction of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) in hospitalized patients (Wells' and Kahn's). We included 273 patients referred to the vascular exploration unit for the suspicion of DVT. A clinical questionnaire was tilled in by the practitioner and the scores were calculated from this form. 66 of the 273 patients had a DVT. When Wells' score was 3, a DVT was found by duplex echography in 51% patients; when the score was 0, a DVT was found in 9%. Kahn's score was not adapted to this population. We then developed a new simple score (cancer, palsy or plaster immobilization, warmth, superficial venous dilation, unilateral pitting edema, other diagnosis). A DVT was found in 76% patients with a score of 3 and in 11% in those with a score of 0. We therefore propose a 6-item score whose main advantages are simplicity and usefulness in routine practice.
Assessment of absolute risk of death after myocardial infarction by use of multiple-risk-factor assessment equations: GISSI-Prevenzione mortality risk chart.	To present and discuss a comprehensive and ready to use prediction model of risk of death after myocardial infarction based on the very recently concluded follow-up of the large GISSI-Prevenzione cohort and on the integrated evaluation of different categories of risk factors: those that are non-modifiable, and those related to lifestyles, co-morbidity, background, and other conventional clinical complications produced by the index myocardial infarction.
Serum biomarkers facilitate the recognition of early- stage cancer and may guide the selection of surgical candidates: a study of carcinoembryonic antigen and tissue polypeptide antigen in patients with operable non-small cell lung cancer.	Copious literature shows that in lung cancer many serum markers, especially the cytokeratin degradation products, correlate with the extent of disease. In 1995, we suggested the possibility of predicting the resectability of non-small cell lung cancer by measuring the plasma level of the tissue polypeptide antigen, a marker of the cytokeratin family. This study was designed (1) to confirm the earlier data in a new prospective evaluation, (2) to comparatively assess another classic biomarker (ie, the carcinoembryonic antigen), and (3) to incorporate their results into the preoperative evaluation of non-small cell lung cancer.
Glucose monitoring with long-term subcutaneous microdialysis in neonates.	Microdialysis is a new approach for continuous monitoring of small molecules in the extracellular space, and hypoglycemia is a common problem in neonatal intensive care. The objective of this study was to evaluate subcutaneous microdialysis for long-term glucose monitoring in neonatal intensive care. We determined the relative recovery of the microdialysis system in vitro and in vivo, the stability of the relative recovery in vivo during long-term microdialysis, and the correlation between blood and dialysate concentrations of glucose and urea. Furthermore, we evaluated the sensitivity and specificy of subcutaneous microdialysis for the diagnosis of hypoglycemia.
Detecting insomnia: comparison of four self-report measures of sleep in a young adult population.	The sensitivity and specificity of four self-report measures of disordered sleep - the Sleep Impairment Index (SII), the Sleep Disorders Questionnaire (SDQ), the Dysfunctional Beliefs and Attitudes About Sleep Scale (DBAS) and the Sleep-Wake Activity Inventory (SWAI) - were compared in subjects with insomnia and normal sleep. Nineteen young adult subjects met DSM-IV criteria for primary insomnia and another 19 were normal control subjects. Discriminatory characteristics of each measure were assessed using receiver operator characteristic curve analyses. Discriminatory power was maximised for each measure to produce cut-scores applicable for identification of individuals with insomnia. The DBAS, SII and SDQ psychiatric DIMS subscale were found to correlate, and discriminated well between the two groups. The SWAI nocturnal sleep subscale was not found to be an accurate discriminator. The results suggest differences in the measures in their ability to detect insomnia, and offer guidelines as to the optimal use of test scores to identify young adults suspected of insomnia.
Comparison of various electrophoretic characteristics of LDL particles and their relationship to the risk of ischemic heart disease.	Several cross-sectional studies and 3 prospective, nested, case-control studies have indicated that individuals with small, dense low density lipoprotein (LDL) particles are at increased risk for ischemic heart disease (IHD). However, whether LDL particle size is an independent risk factor for future IHD events remains controversial. The objective of the present study was to further analyze the cardiovascular risk associated with various electrophoretic characteristics of LDL particles in men.
Postoperative reduction of fibrinolysis as a prognostic factor of fatal outcome.	For the resection of an esophagus carcinoma a mortality rate of 2 to 30% was described. It is still unclear whether an abdominothoracic or transhiatal intervention is superior regarding the outcome. To investigate the prognostic value of fibrinolytic markers, plasmin-alpha2-antiplasmin (PAP) and D-dimer (DD) values were determined daily in the early postoperative period for 11 days. In addition, the course of PAP and DD concentrations was compared with the method of esophagectomy. Of the 28 patients enclosed in the study, 5 died between day 10 and day 34 owing to adult respiratory distress syndrome and septicemia. The PAP and DD concentrations increased in survivors after surgery until day 5 and day 7, respectively. The concentrations were twofold and 10-fold higher than the upper reference level. In contrast, four of five nonsurvivors showed an inadequate increase in PAP concentrations within the reference range, whereas the course of DD was inconspicuous. The sensitivity and specificity of PAP and DD in respect to a fatal outcome was calculated by receiver operating characteristic analysis based on all results: sensitivity 76% (PAP-cut off value 760 microg/L) and 49% (DD 6 mg/L), specificity 77% and 72%, respectively. The biochemical markers showed no significant differences between the abdominothoracic and transhiatal esophagectomy. In the abdominothoracic intervention, lower PAP and higher DD concentrations were observed. The results showed that the PAP concentrations could detect a fatal outcome within the first 5 days after surgery.
The mean third trimester postprandial blood glucose of diabetic pregnant patients and infant birth weight in the kuwaiti population.	To determine whether the mean third-trimester postprandial blood sugar can predict macrosomia.
The number of embryos available for transfer predicts successful pregnancy outcome in women over 39 years with normal ovarian hormonal reserve testing.	The purpose was to determine whether the number of embryos available for transfer following IVF in women over age 39 predicted a successful pregnancy outcome.
The "differential diagnosis" for multiple diseases: comparison with the binary-truth state experiment in two empirical studies.	In practice readers must often choose between multiple diagnoses. For assessing reader accuracy in these settings. Obuchowski et al have proposed the "differential diagnosis" method, which derives all pairwise estimates of accuracy for the various diagnoses, along with summary measures of accuracy. The current study assessed the correspondence between the differential diagnosis method and conventional binary-truth state experiments.
Emerging methods of caries diagnosis.	Current diagnostic tools used in dental caries detection are not sensitive enough to diagnose the disease process in its early stages and, frequently, once a diagnosis is made, restoration is the only effective means of treatment. The purpose of this review was to systematically assess the available literature for evidence to determine if emerging diagnostic methods for dental caries are more efficient than traditional methods for detecting and monitoring the progress of caries in permanent and primary teeth. Inclusion and exclusion criteria were established preceding the literature search. Included articles were grouped by type of emerging technology and study design. The types of emerging technologies included laser fluorescence, light fluorescence, digital imaging fiber optic transillumination, and ultrasound. Primarily on the basis of in vitro and preclinical data, some of the reviewed methodologies showed promising results for the detection and monitoring of early caries lesions. However, very little clinical data are available to validate these emerging technologies. It was concluded that, although significant promise is apparent with these technologies, there is not enough evidence available at this time for any of the reviewed diagnostic techniques to be recommended as a substitute for traditional diagnostic techniques.
Radiographic diagnosis of dental caries.	The purpose of this report was to respond to aspects of the RTI/UNC systematic review relating to the radiographic diagnosis of dental caries. The systematic review was commissioned as part of the NIH Consensus Development Conference on Diagnosis and Management of Dental Caries Throughout Life. The systematic review evaluated the dental literature from 1966 to 1999. Well-defined search criteria along with clear inclusion and exclusion criteria were used to perform the review. Some of the inclusion and exclusion criteria used in the systematic review may have limited the evidence supporting the use of radiography, especially for the diagnosis of proximal surface caries. The RTI/UNC review only included studies in which sensitivity and specificity were reported or could be derived from the data presented. Studies that used the receiver operating characteristic as a measure of diagnostic accuracy were not included. Although the strength of evidence is considered poor, this does not mean that the use of radiographic methods is of no diagnostic value. It simply means that, using the criteria established by the systematic review, the evidence is inadequate to validate the method. Guidelines should be developed for assessing diagnostic methods that assist researchers in developing study designs that will hold up to critical review.
Severity of illness scores: are they useful in febrile neutropenic adult patients in hematology wards? A prospective multicenter study.	To assess the prognostic value of two severity of illness scores, commonly used for critically ill patients, Simplified Acute Physiology Score (SAPS II) and Organ Dysfunctions and Infection (ODIN), in predicting mortality in febrile neutropenic patients in hematology wards.
The systematic discrepancy between A' for overall recognition and remembering: a dual-process account.	Signal detection accounts of recognition assume that all item endorsements arise from the assessment of a single continuous indication of memory strength, even when subjects claim to categorically separate items accompanied by contextual recollection from those that are not (viz., remembering vs. knowing). Dissociations of these response types are held to occur because the former require a higher response criterion for item strength than does the latter. Meta-analytic and individual subject data suggest that when the A' metric is used, accuracy for remembering can systematically deviate from that of overall responding for individual subjects. This occurs because, unlike the symmetric and rigid receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) implied under A', empirical ROCs are asymmetric and plastic. A dual-process model predicted that the magnitude of the deviation would vary as a systematic function of the proportion of overall recognition accompanied by subjective remember reports for individual subjects. The predictions were confirmed using multiple regression on Monte Carlo and experimental data sets and were also shown to generalize to the double equal-threshold, single high-threshold [i.e., H - FA; (H - FA)/(1 - FA)], and the equal variance signal detection d' corrections. The unequal variance signal detection model was also shown to mirror the data, but only under the post hoc assumption that every subject adopts a very similar remember criterion placement rule. The results demonstrate that the systematic failure of tightly constrained models of recognition constitutes valuable regression data for more complex models and simultaneously highlights why single-point measures of accuracy are unsuitable as summaries across conditions or groups. Furthermore, the results show that remember rates carry unique information regarding the underlying processes governing individual subject performance that cannot be gleaned from the overall hit and false alarm rates in isolation.
Receiver-operating characteristic curves.	Intracranial pressure (ICP) and cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) are frequently monitored in severely head injured patients. To establish which one (ICP or CPP) is more predictive of outcome and to examine whether there are significant threshold levels in the determination of outcome, receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to analyze data in a large series of head-injured patients.
Circulating natriuretic peptide concentrations in patients with end-stage renal disease: role of brain natriuretic peptide as a biomarker for ventricular remodeling.	To determine levels of natriuretic peptides (NPs) in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and to examine the relationship of these cardiovascular peptides to left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and to cardiac mortality.
Usefulness of flow-mediated dilation of the brachial artery and/or the intima-media thickness of the carotid artery in predicting coronary narrowing in patients suspected of having coronary artery disease.	It has been reported that flow-mediated dilation (FMD) of the brachial artery and the carotid intima-media thickness (IMT), markers of atherosclerosis, are altered in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), but it is still not known if the presence of CAD can be detected using these markers. We examined whether the presence of CAD can be detected by FMD of the brachial artery and/or IMT. Eighty-one patients who underwent coronary angiography for the first time were enrolled. In each patient, brachial artery diameter responses to FMD and the administration of nitroglycerin spray, and carotid IMT were measured using high-resolution ultrasound (10 MHz) before coronary angiography. CAD was defined as >50% stenosis of a major coronary artery. Fifty-six patients had CAD. FMD was lower and IMT was greater in patients with CAD (FMD, 2.9 +/- 0.2% vs 9.4 +/- 0.5%; IMT, 1.09 +/- 0.05 vs 0.79 +/- 0.04 mm, both p <0.0001). Nitroglycerin-induced dilation did not differ in the 2 groups. Multivariate analysis showed that FMD was the only predictor of the presence of CAD (p = 0.0026). Receiver-operating characteristic analysis demonstrated that a cutoff value for FMD for detecting the presence of CAD was 6%, with a sensitivity of 0.93 (52 of 56) and a specificity of 0.88 (22 of 25). These findings suggest that FMD but not IMT may be used to detect the presence of CAD in patients with suspected CAD.
ST-segment level and slope in exercise-induced myocardial ischemia evaluated with body surface potential mapping.	Body surface potential mapping (BSPM) is superior to 12-lead electrocardiography for detection of acute and old myocardial infarctions (MIs). We used BSPM to examine electrocardiographic criteria for acute reversible myocardial ischemia. BSPM with 123 channels was performed in 45 patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and 25 healthy controls during supine bicycle exercise testing. Of the 45 patients, 18 patients had anterior, 14 had posterior, and 13 had inferior ischemia documented by coronary angiography and thallium scintigraphy. The ST amplitude was measured 60 ms after the J-point and the ST slope calculated by fitting a regression line from the J-point to 60 ms after it. The optimal locations for detecting ST depression and ST-slope decrease were identified. In the pooled CAD patient group, the optimal location for ST depression was 5 cm below standard lead V(5) (CAD group: -70 +/- 70 microV; controls: 70 +/- 80 microV, p <0.001). Using a cut-off value of -10 microV, the ST depression separated the patients with CAD from controls with a sensitivity of 84% and a specificity of 96%. The ST slope became more horizontal in the patient group than in the control group. The optimal location for ST-slope decrease was over the left side (CAD group: 20 +/- 20 microV/s; controls: 720 +/- 320 microV/s, p <0.001). Using a cut-off value of 320 microV/s, the ST slope separated patients with CAD from controls with a sensitivity of 93% at a specificity level of 88%. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of ST slope tended to be higher than the one of ST depression (97% vs 93%; p = 0.097). In conclusion, regions sensitive for ST depression and for ST-slope decrease could be identified in BSPM, despite variation in the location of ischemia and the presence or absence of a history of MI. ST slope is a sensitive and specific marker of transient myocardial ischemia, and might perform even better than ST depression.
Pulsatility of ascending aorta and restenosis after coronary angioplasty in patients >60 years of age with stable angina pectoris.	A recent study has demonstrated that the pulsatility of the ascending aorta is a strong predictive factor for restenosis after coronary angioplasty. However, whether the pulsatility of the ascending aorta is still a significant predictor for restenosis in elderly patients with a stiffer aorta is unknown. We investigated the relation between arterial pulsatility in the ascending aorta and restenosis after coronary angioplasty in patients aged > 60 years. Eighty-seven consecutive patients (80 men, aged 72.5 +/- 5.1 years) with stable angina were included. Before angioplasty, the arterial systolic, diastolic, and mean pressure waveforms of the ascending aorta were measured. We used fractional pulse pressure (PPf, the ratio of pulse pressure to mean pressure) and pulsatility index (PI, the ratio of pulse pressure to diastolic pressure) to estimate the pulsatility of the ascending aorta. Angiographic restenosis occurred in 39 patients. Pulse pressure, PPf, and PI were significantly higher in patients with restenosis after coronary angioplasty (restenosis vs without restenosis: pulse pressure, 77.6 +/- 12.2 vs 66.1 +/- 15.4 mm Hg [p < 0.001]; PPf, 0.80 +/- 0.09 vs 0.69 +/- 0.11 [p < 0.001]; PI, 1.19 +/- 0.20 vs 0.98 +/- 0.21 [p < 0.001]). After multivariate stepwise adjustment of risk factors of restenosis and using receiver-operating characteristic analysis, the odds ratio (OR) of restenosis was: pulse pressure > 66 mm Hg, OR 5.88 (95% confidence interval [CI] 2.17 to 15.93); PPf > 0.72, OR 13.71 (95% CI 4.81 to 39.05); PI > 1.06, OR 13.56 (95% CI 4.67 to 39.38). Moreover, among patients aged > 70 years (n = 60), the predictive values of PPf and PI were even higher than those in patients aged < or = 70 years (n = 27). Thus, in elderly patients with stable angina, the pulsatility of the ascending aorta is a powerful predictor of restenosis after coronary angioplasty.
Discriminating contrast discontinuities: asymmetries, dipper functions, and perceptual learning.	In a visual search task, a target has to be found among distractors. For two given elements A and B, the search difficulty can depend on which of the two elements is defined as the target, a phenomenon called search asymmetry. Here, we study to what degree an element's ability to 'win' in a search asymmetry depends on its absolute contrast (first-stage signal) and to what degree it depends on its contrast difference from the background (second-stage signal). One quadrant contained a target texture (2 x 2 Gabor patches of contrast c(tg)), and the other three quadrants contained distractor textures (2 x 2 Gabor patches of contrast c(dt)). These four 'foreground textures' were embedded in a background texture consisting of patches with contrast c(bg). The task was to identify which quadrant contained the target. Quadrants are referred to as increments (foreground contrast c(fg)>c(bg)), or decrements (c(fg)<c(bg)). We found that the second-stage signal determines which element wins the performance asymmetry, i.e. it is easier to find strong increments (decrements) among weak increments (decrements) than vice versa. A comparison of our data with the prediction of the independent-processing model [Vision Res. 40 (2000) 2677] shows that the observed performance asymmetries are in general too large to be attributed to noise differences alone. Rather, asymmetries might reflect a global competition between salient elements. Moreover, performance asymmetries can reverse during practice. We characterize a dipper-shaped nonlinearity on the second stage: discrimination of increment (decrement) signals x and x+Delta x first improves for increasing x, and then deteriorates.
Sensitivity and specificity of clinical markers for the diagnosis of bipolar II disorder.	Bipolar II disorder is common in depressed outpatients, but the diagnosis may have low reliability because it is often based on history of hypomania. The aim of the present study was to test sensitivity and specificity for bipolar II diagnosis of some reported markers of bipolar II: atypical features, depressive mixed state, young age at onset, recurrences, and interpersonal rejection sensitivity. A total of 161 consecutive unipolar (n = 64) and bipolar II (n = 97) outpatients with major depressive episode (MDE) were interviewed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (SCID). Depressive mixed state was defined as a MDE with two or more (DMX2) or with three or more (DMX3) concurrent hypomanic symptoms. DMX3 and atypical features had the highest specificity (92.1% and 82.8%, respectively) and predictive power (0.69 and 0.64), but low sensitivity (46.3%, 45.3%). Concurrent presence of DMX3 and atypical features increased sensitivity (67.0%), reduced specificity (76.5%), and increased predictive power (0.75). Age at onset, recurrences, and interpersonal rejection sensitivity, concurrent with DMX3 and atypical features, increased the predictive power only slightly. Thus, two cross-sectional features of a MDE, such as DMX3 and atypical symptoms, alone or in combination, may strongly support bipolar II diagnosis, and it appears that DMX3 is the best of the two. The low reliability of bipolar II diagnosis based on history of hypomania may be improved by two cross-sectional clinical markers.
Extent of ST-segment deviation in a single electrocardiogram lead 90 min after thrombolysis as a predictor of medium-term mortality in acute myocardial infarction.	In evolving myocardial infarction, assessment of the sum of early resolution of ST-segment elevation (sumSTR) has become an established method to predict outcome. We have found previously that mortality is predicted more accurately by the existing ST-segment deviation in the single electrocardiograph (ECG) lead with maximum deviation (maxSTE) 90 min after start of thrombolysis. This report compares the power to predict medium-term mortality by these two approaches.
Evaluation of an automated wavelet-based system dedicated to the detection of clustered microcalcifications in digital mammograms.	Mammographic screening programs are delivering reductions in breast cancer mortality. However, breast cancer screening will be cost effective and will provide a real profit only when both high sensitivity and specificity levels are reached. To date, due to human or technical factors, a significant number of breast cancers are still missed or misinterpreted on the mammograms. Computer methodologies, developed to assist radiologists, could represent further amelioration by increasing diagnostic accuracy in the screening programs. We have tested a computerized scheme to detect clustered microcalcifications in digital mammograms, employing 360 mammograms that were randomly selected from the mammographic screening program, currently undergoing at the Galicia Community (Spain). After the digitization process, the breast border was initially determined. A wavelet-based algorithm was employed to detect the clusters of microcalcifications. The performance of the automated system over the test set was evaluated employing Free-response Receiver Operating Characteristic (FROC) methodology. The sensitivity achieved was 74% at a false positive detection rate of 1.83. The corresponding area under the Alternative FROC (AFROC) curve was A1=0.667 +/-0.09.
Risk factors for cancellation of stereotactic large core needle biopsy on a prone biopsy table.	Among patients undergoing stereotactic needle biopsy of the breast on a prone biopsy table, a substantial proportion of planned procedures are terminated prematurely. This study was undertaken to identify risk factors for cancellation of these procedures and to derive a clinical rule for predicting cancellation. Risk factors for cancellation were assessed in a group of 476 consecutive patients with non-palpable lesions planned for large core needle biopsy. 64 (13%) of these planned procedures were cancelled. Multivariate regression analysis was applied to identify independent risk factors for cancellation. Validation took place by applying the logistic rule on a validation set, including 5 cancelled and 35 successful biopsy procedures. Mammograms that were difficult to interpret owing to extremely dense breast tissue, axillary location of the non-palpable lesion, body mass index below 20, less than 15 mm distance from the lesion to the chest wall or the presence of more than one non-palpable lesion were identified as independent risk factors. The logistic rule discriminated patients with successful and cancelled biopsy procedures with a receiver operator characteristic (ROC) area of 0.72. In the validation set, the area under the ROC curve was 0.92. The prediction rule, based on mammographic and clinical findings, discriminated patients with successful and cancelled needle biopsy procedures to a certain extent. The risk of cancellation of the stereotacic biopsy procedure is considerable in cases of very dense breast tissue or the presence of multiple risk factors.
Generation of TACT image slices using different reconstruction algorithms: effects on natural caries detection.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether the method of reconstruction of tuned-aperture computed tomography (TACT) slices has an influence on observer performance in caries detection.
Should atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASCUS) be subcategorized? Accuracy analysis of Papanicolaou smears using receiver operating characteristic curves and implications for the ASCUS/squamous intraepithelial lesion ratio.	We correlated all Papanicolaou test diagnoses over a 6-month period with biopsy results and determined accuracy using receiver operating characteristic curves and biopsy as the "gold standard." Accuracies were calculated using all atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASCUS) cases or by eliminating subsets thereof. Retaining the ASCUS category resulted in significantly greater accuracy for the diagnosis of squamous intraepithelial lesion (SIL) on biopsy compared with eliminating it by diagnosing all such cases as negative. Subcategorization significantly improved the accuracy of the test only when all cases were included. The highest accuracy without subcategorization was achieved when ASCUS, favor reactive, cases were diagnosed as negative, but this threshold was significantly less sensitive than including all ASCUS cases. Increasing or decreasing the estimated ASCUS/SIL ratio from 2.4 without subcategorization significantly reduced accuracy. Similar results were obtained when high-grade SIL on biopsy was used as the gold standard. Use of the ASCUS category significantly improves the accuracy of the Papanicolaou test. Eliminating any subset of ASCUS reduces the ASCUS/SIL ratio but also significantly diminishes the sensitivity of the Papanicolaou test.
Diagnostic specificities and sensitivities of anti dsDNA, anti membrane DNA and anti nucleosomes autoantibodies.	The aim of this study is to evaluate, from 369 routine sera of SLE and control patients, the worth of anti double stranded nuclear DNA, anti nucleosomes autoantibodies and anti membrane DNA for the diagnosis of SLE. Cell membrane associated DNA (mDNA) has been described on B lymphocytes and monocytes, but not on T cells. Antibodies to mDNA were identified by an indirect immunofluorescence assay using a B cell line fixed but not permeabilised. At a 1:40 serum dilution, anti mDNA is almost associated with the diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Anti mDNA were shown to be different in specificity as compared with anti double stranded nuclear DNA. We compare its characteristics as diagnostic procedure to the conventional anti dsDNA antibody detection and to the recently introduced anti nucleosome antibody test documented as associated with SLE. It appears that the best sensitivity (0.65) and specificity (0.98) is given by the anti mDNA test.
Differential coronary calcification on electron-beam CT between syndrome X and coronary artery disease in patients with chronic stable angina pectoris.	The differential diagnosis of syndrome X and coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with evidence of myocardial ischemia may be difficult. The possible difference in coronary calcium detected by electron-beam CT (EBCT) between syndrome X and CAD is rarely evaluated, especially in aged patients with chronic, stable angina.
Comparison of the Glasgow Coma Scale and the Reaction Level Scale for assessment of cerebral responsiveness in the critically ill.	The Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) is a well-known source of error in outcome prediction models. We compared assessment of cerebral responsiveness with the GCS and the Reaction Level Scale (RLS) in two otherwise similar outcome prediction models.
A readers' guide to the interpretation of diagnostic test properties: clinical example of sepsis.	One of the most challenging practical and daily problems in intensive care medicine is the interpretation of the results from diagnostic tests. In neonatology and pediatric intensive care the early diagnosis of potentially life-threatening infections is a particularly important issue.
Wavelet compression of low-dose chest CT data: effect on lung nodule detection.	To assess the effect of using a lossy Joint Photographic Experts Group standard for wavelet image compression, JPEG2000, on pulmonary nodule detection at low-dose computed tomography (CT).
Predictive role of serum procollagen III peptide and Knodell's index in survival prognosis of patients with hepatitis B virus liver cirrhosis.	The objective of the study was to improve the accuracy of survival prognosis in patients with liver cirrhosis using procollagen III peptide (PIIIP), as a marker of inflammation and fibrogenesis, and Knodell's histologic activity index (KI) in addition to previously used prognostic factors.
Standardization of BMD T-Scores in the first five years after the menopause: do femoral neck-equivalent and older normative range T-Scores improve diagnostic agreement?	Calculating T-scores using an older reference population reduces inconsistency between measurement sites when osteoporosis is diagnosed in the elderly. The present analysis in a younger, early postmenopausal cohort examined 5-yr consistency of normalization by local and femoral neck-equivalent T-scores. NHANES (femur) and Hologic (spine and forearm) references were applied to baseline, 1-, 2-, 3-, and 5-yr scans in 925 untreated women in a national cohort study, and alternative local and neck-equivalent scores calculated. The baseline prevalence of osteopenia/osteoporosis was 35.5%/4.1% (spine), 31.0%/1.2% (neck), 31.3%/1.2% (total hip), and 37.2%/2.5% (forearm). It increased to 54.6%/7% by combining sites. The prevalences at 5-yr were 57.2%/12.4% (spine), 51.9%/5.0% (neck), 46.6%/3.7% (total hip), 52.5%/7.4% (forearm), and 77.3%/17.8% (any). A T-score cut-off at the lowest of four sites of -1.65 for osteopenia and -3.37 for osteoporosis was equivalent in patient numbers to T<-1 and T<-2.5 at the femoral neck. The proportion of inconsistently classified subjects decreased from 48% to 42% (p<0.05) with neck-equivalent scores. No improvement remained after 5 yr. Kappa scores did not improve by the use of local or femoral neck scores. In conclusion, adjusted thresholds cannot remove the anatomic discrepancy between T-scores. To overcome this problem, risk-based diagnostic cut-offs must therefore be calculated separately for each measurement site and fracture localization.
Intensive care unit support and Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation III performance in hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients.	Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) have high mortality. The prognostic importance of peripheral blood stem cell source in critically ill HSCT recipients and the performance of Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) III have not been well studied. In a previous study, the hospital mortality rate of HSCT recipients admitted to our ICU was 77%. The objectives of this study were to describe the clinical course of HSCT recipients admitted to the ICU and to determine the performance of APACHE III in predicting their mortality.
Comparison of procalcitonin and C-reactive protein as markers of sepsis.	To compare the clinical informative value of procalcitonin (PCT) and C-reactive protein (CRP) plasma concentrations in the detection of infection and sepsis and in the assessment of severity of sepsis.
Assessment of adherence to triple antiretroviral treatment including indinavir: role of the determination of plasma levels of indinavir.	To assess the contribution of the determination of concentrations of indinavir (IND) in plasma to the assessment of self-reported adherence and keeping of appointments to withdraw drugs from the hospital pharmacy.
Modified pouchitis disease activity index: a simplified approach to the diagnosis of pouchitis.	Pouchitis is the most common complication of ileal pouch-anal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis. Our previous study suggested that symptoms alone are not reliable for the diagnosis of pouchitis. The most commonly used diagnostic instrument is the 18-point pouchitis disease activity index consisting of three principal component scores: symptom, endoscopy, and histology. Despite its popularity, the pouchitis disease activity index has mainly been a research tool because of costs of endoscopy (especially with histology), complexity in calculation, and time delay in determining histology scores. It is not known whether pouch endoscopy without biopsy can reliably diagnose pouchitis in symptomatic patients. The aim of the present study was to determine whether omitting histologic evaluation from the pouchitis disease activity index significantly affects the sensitivity and specificity of diagnostic criteria for pouchitis.
Long-term prognosis after a normal exercise stress Tc-99m sestamibi SPECT study.	Patients with a normal stress technetium 99m sestamibi study were shown to have a favorable outcome at intermediate-term follow-up. However, long-term survival has not been studied. The aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence and predictors of mortality and cardiac events at long-term follow-up after a normal exercise stress sestamibi study. Methods and results We studied 218 patients (mean age, 53 +/- 10 years, 108 men) who had normal myocardial perfusion assessed by Tc-99m sestamibi single photon emission computed tomography at rest and during symptom-limited bicycle exercise stress test. Endpoints during a follow-up period of 7.4 +/- 1.8 years were hard cardiac events (cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction) and all-cause mortality. During follow-up, 13 patients died of various causes (cardiac death in 1 patient). Ten patients had nonfatal myocardial infarction (a total of 11 hard cardiac events). By multivariate analysis, independent predictors of cardiac events were history of coronary artery disease (chi(2) = 5, P =.03) and lower exercise heart rate (chi(2) = 12, P =.001). Independent predictors of all-cause mortality were age (chi(2) = 4, P =.05) and exercise heart rate (chi(2) = 5, P =.03). The annual mortality rate was 0.6% in the first 5 years and 1.8% between the sixth and eighth years. The annual hard cardiac event rate was 0.7% in the first 5 years and 1.5% between the sixth and eighth years. Receiver operating characteristic curves identified an exercise heart rate lower than 130 beats/min as the cutoff value that separated patients with regard to their risk for mortality and hard cardiac events.
A comparison of self-reports of distress and affective disorder diagnoses in rheumatoid arthritis: a receiver operator characteristic analysis.	To compare 3 commonly used psychiatric symptom checklists (the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale [CES-D], the Positive and Negative Affect Schedule, and the Endler Multidimensional Anxiety Scales [EMAS]) to determine their sensitivity, specificity, and ability to discriminate between a disorder (Major Depression [MD], Generalized Anxiety Disorder [GAD]), and no disorder. To compare the checklists for their ability to discriminate between type of disorder (MD and GAD). To evaluate the discriminant ability of the subscales, particularly positive affect; whether the somatic items in the CES-D artificially inflate affective scores; and the optimal cut off score for the CES-D.
Daubert, cognitive malingering, and test accuracy.	Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals (1993) held that trial judges should permit expert scientific testimony only when "the reasoning or methodology underlying the testimony is scientifically valid, and ... properly can be applied to the facts in issue." Vallabhajosula and van Gorp ("V & vG," 2001) have suggested that when the Daubert standard is applied to tests for malingered cognitive deficits, courts should deem admissible only results that meet this mathematical standard: assuming a pretest probability of .3, a "positive" score on the malingering test should yield a posttest probability of at least .8. This paper shows that V & vG's criterion may lead to misunderstandings about the kind of information maligering measures provide. After reviewing cases that have discussed both the Daubert decision and malingered cognitive deficits, this paper uses data from the Test of Memory Malingering (T.N. Tombaugh, 1996) to provide a general characterization of the mathematical properties of malingering measures. The paper then describes how pretest knowledge about malingering is combined with knowledge about a test's performance to generate a posttest probability of malingering. The results can help mental health experts respond to Daubert-inspired challenges to conclusions based on malingering measures.
Detection of TIMI-3 flow before mechanical reperfusion with ultrasonic tissue characterization in patients with anterior wall acute myocardial infarction.	Spontaneous coronary reperfusion with TIMI-3 flow is associated with favorable clinical outcomes in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). We investigated the ability of analyzing cardiac cycle-dependent variation of myocardial integrated backscatter (IBS) for predicting spontaneous reperfusion in anterior AMI.
Predicting vascular complications in percutaneous coronary interventions.	Using a large, current, regional registry of percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI), we identified risk factors for postprocedure vascular complications and developed a scoring system to estimate individual patient risk.
A model to predict death after lung cancer resection: applicability to individual cases]	To evaluate the reliability of a logistic regression model to predict individual risk of death related to lung cancer resection.
Fasting plasma glucose test at the first prenatal visit as a screen for gestational diabetes.	To determine whether the fasting plasma glucose test administered at the first prenatal visit could serve as an efficient screen for gestational diabetes.
Predicting term and preterm delivery with transabdominal uterine electromyography.	To determine whether delivery can be predicted using transabdominal uterine electromyography.
Second-trimester maternal serum placental growth factor and vascular endothelial growth factor for predicting severe, early-onset preeclampsia.	To determine whether alterations in second-trimester maternal serum cytokine concentrations can identify women at risk for developing severe, early-onset preeclampsia.
Evaluation of diagnostic procedures for subclinical mastitis in meat-producing sheep.	Samples of foremilk were collected from 261 clinically normal glands of 150 ewes, and tested using the California mastitis test (CMT). Further samples were collected from 195 of these glands for determination of automated somatic cell counts (SCC), and from 60 of these glands for bacteriological assessment. The sensitivity and specificity of CMT for detecting samples with SCC above different threshold levels and for CMT and SCC in determining bacteriological status were evaluated using two-graph receiver operating characteristics (TG-ROC). Milk samples were obtained subsequently from ten CMT positive, and five CMT negative first- and second-lactation ewes. Samples were cultured using a variety of media, incubation temperatures and atmospheric conditions, immediately after collection, and 1 week after storage at 4 degrees C and -21 degrees C. Results suggested that CMT is best used as a diagnostic test for ovine subclinical mastitis (SCM) with a cut-off of 3 (distinct gel formation), and that automated SCC thresholds of > 1200 x 10(3) cells/ml are appropriate, especially where low prevalences are expected (e.g. < 5%). Additionally, this study showed that routine bacteriological methods were appropriate for isolation of most species of pathogen responsible for ovine SCM, but storage of samples prior to culture, either at 4 degrees C or -21 degrees C, was detrimental to the isolation of several of these organisms.
EuroSCORE overestimates the cardiac operative risk.	It was the purpose of our study to assess the validity of EuroSCORE (European system for cardiac operative risk evaluation) in our patient population.
Evaluation of soluble intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1) in benign and malignant ovarian masses.	To evaluate serum ICAM-1 levels preoperatively in patients with ovarian masses.
Preoperative serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in ovarian masses.	To determine the diagnostic value of serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the preoperative assessment of the nature of ovarian masses.
Reliability of antitransglutaminase antibodies as predictors of gluten-free diet compliance in adult celiac disease.	Strict lifelong compliance to a gluten-free diet (GFD) minimizes the long-term risk of mortality, especially from lymphoma, in adult celiac disease (CD). Although serum IgA antitransglutaminase (IgA-tTG-ab), like antiendomysium (IgA-EMA) antibodies, are sensitive and specific screening tests for untreated CD, their reliability as predictors of strict compliance to and dietary transgressions from a GFD is not precisely known. We aimed to address this question in consecutively treated adult celiacs.
Determining the levels of matrix metalloproteinase-9 in portal and peripheral blood is useful for predicting liver metastasis of colorectal cancer.	Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) is one of the MMPs that play an important role in cancer invasion and metastasis. Increased levels of MMP-9 in tumor tissue have been found to correlate with advanced stages of colorectal cancer. However, the clinical significance of determining the levels of MMP-9 in blood samples from patients with colorectal cancer has not yet been clarified. The purpose of this study was to clarify the relationship between the clinicopathological variables of colorectal cancer and MMP-9 levels of drainage (portal) or peripheral venous blood and to examine whether this assay would be useful for predicting liver metastasis.
Clinical usefulness of measurements of urinary deoxypyridinoline (DPD) in patients with postmenopausal osteoporosis receiving intermittent cyclical etidronate: advantage of free form of DPD over total DPD in predicting treatment efficacy.	Deoxypyridinoline (DPD) in urine, which reflects systemic bone resorption, is considered useful for assessing the effects of osteoporosis treatment. However, there are various methods of measuring DPD in urine but have been few comparative studies of the effectiveness of these methods. In this study, we investigated 94 postmenopausal women (63 patients administered with intermittent cyclical etidronate (ICE), and 31 control patients) focusing on total DPD and free DPD, measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), respectively. For other metabolic bone markers, i.e., tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP), bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (BAP), and osteocalcin (OC), we also investigated the ability of these markers to predict increases in bone mineral density (BMD), by employing receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis in relation to increasing BMD following ICE therapy, and we determined the usefulness of the different metabolic bone markers, using the signal-noise ratio derived from the mean significant change (MSC), which is double the day-to-day coefficient of variation in healthy volunteers. In the same way, we defined a significant change in BMD as double the mean change in BMD for 6 months after the initiation of observation in the control group, and we used this value as the cutoff value for ROC analysis. It was found that the assessment of urinary DPD was useful for assessing the treatment efficacy of ICE, and the assessment of changes at week 12 of therapy was most effective. In order to recognize changes in metabolic bone markers when the MSC is considered as the cutoff value, it is useful to assess the change in total DPD by HPLC. However, in order to predict increases in BMD 6 months or more after the initiation of ICE, it seems more effective to measure free DPD by ELISA. We conclude, therefore, that the measurement of free DPD by ELISA is more useful, especially when treatment efficacy of ICE is clinically predicted in individual patients with osteoporosis.
Visualization of microcalcifications on mammographies obtained by digital full-field mammography in comparison to conventional film-screen mammography]	To evaluate the visualization of microcalcifications on mammographies obtained by full-field digital mammography (FFDM) in comparison to conventional film-screen mammography (FSM).
Early detection of peritonitis in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis patients by cytokine measurements.	Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) carries a risk of peritonitis which is accompanied by mild symptomatology. Culture of effluent has yielded organism in 50% of cases. Peritoneal phagocytes produce tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin (IL)-1 in response to contact with bacteria, initiating an inflammatory cascade which leads to IL-6 and IL-8 secretion. Additonally, neutrophils undergo an increase in oxidative metabolism. We have evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of effluent measurements of TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-8, and oxidative metabolism markers in these patients. Dialysate fluids (n = 65) were collected from non-infected patients and those presenting with acute peritonitis. Positive culture proved the diagnosis. Oxidative markers and nitric oxide were measured by chemiluminescence. Cytokines were measured by solid phase chemiluminescent immunometric assay (Immulite, DPC, USA). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to assess the diagnostic accuracy and the areas under curves were calculated for comparison. All effluent cytokines and oxidative markers were significantly higher in patients with peritonitis when compared to those without (p < 0.05). Significant correlations were evident between IL-6 and IL-8, lucigenin chemiluminescence and luminol chemiluminescence, lucigenin chemiluminescence and IL-6 or IL-8, and luminol chemiluminescence and IL-6 or IL-8. ROC curves showed that the ability of IL-6, IL-8, lucigenin chemiluminescence, and luminol chemiluminescence to differentiate CAPD patients with peritonitis from non-infected cases exceeds that of polymorphonuclear leukocyte count.
Hematopoietic growth factors in colorectal cancer patients.	Hematopoietic growth factors (HGFs) are involved in the regulation of growth and spread of cancer. Therefore, in the present study, we have investigated in colorectal cancer patients the serum levels of selected HGFs, such as stem cell factor (SCF), interleukin 3 (IL-3), granulocyte-macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), and M-CSF in relation to controls and to the classical tumor markers, such as carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA 19-9) in colorectal cancer. Additionally, we have compared the serum levels of cytokines with tumor site and stage and other clinical characteristics such as age and sex. We also defined the receiver-operating characteristics (ROC) curve for HGFs and classical tumor markers. The tested cytokines were measured in 70 patients with colorectal cancer and in 40 healthy subjects. HGFs were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). CEA and CA 19-9 were measured by microparticle enzyme immunoassay. There were significant differences in the levels of circulating SCF, IL-3, M-CSF, GM-CSF, and CEA and CA 19-9 in the colorectal cancer patients compared to the control group. The levels of M-CSF and CEA were significantly higher in patients with a more advanced tumor stage. The significant positive correlation was observed between the CEA and CA 19-9 concentrations. The M-CSF serum levels correlated positively with the tested tumor markers. The M-CSF area under the ROC curve was the largest. These results suggest that M-CSF is, among the tested HGFs, the best candidate for a colorectal cancer tumor marker.
Chylomicron remnant concentrations in patients with coronary artery disease.	Persisting chylomicron remnants have been linked to premature atherosclerosis. The analysis of chylomicron remnant concentrations by an oral triglyceride tolerance test, however, is time-consuming for the study subjects and requires large resources in the laboratory. Therefore, only small numbers of subjects have been studied in the past. The aim of this study was to elucidate the prevalence of elevated chylomicron remnants, to identify effectors of chylomicron remnant clearance and to compare chylomicron remnants in the prediction of coronary artery disease with other risk factors. We applied a novel oral triglyceride tolerance test to 423 patients (368 males, 55 females) with a confirmed diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD) and to 390 control subjects (295 males, 95 females) in a case-control setting. This study revealed that elevated chylomicron remnant concentrations (retinyl esters > 1.5 micromol/l) are present in 20% of all subjects. Male gender, the apolipoprotein E2 isoform, and higher body mass index were associated with increased chylomicron remnant concentrations. However, chylomicron remnants were lower and plasma triglycerides higher in patients with CAD. We conclude that screening for a delayed clearance of chylomicron remnants is of little clinical value in CAD.
Internal and external validation of predictive models: a simulation study of bias and precision in small samples.	We performed a simulation study to investigate the accuracy of bootstrap estimates of optimism (internal validation) and the precision of performance estimates in independent validation samples (external validation). We combined two data sets containing children presenting with fever without source (n=376+179=555; 120 bacterial infections). Random samples were drawn from this combined data set for the development (n=376) and validation (n=179) of logistic regression models. The models included statistically significant predictors for infection selected from a set of 57 candidate predictors. Model development, including the selection of predictors, and validation were repeated in a bootstrapping procedure. The resulting expected optimism estimate in the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) area was compared with the observed optimism according to independent validation samples. The average apparent ROC area was 0.74, which was expected (based on bootstrapping) to decrease by 0.07 to 0.67, whereas the observed decrease in the validation samples was 0.09 to 0.65. Omitting the selection of predictors from the bootstrap procedure led to a severe underestimation of the optimism (decrease 0.006). The standard error of the observed ROC area in the independent validation samples was large (0.05). We recommend bootstrapping for internal validation because it gives reasonably valid estimates of the expected optimism in predictive performance provided that any selection of predictors is taken into account. For external validation, substantial sample sizes should be used for sufficient power to detect clinically important changes in performance as compared with the internally validated estimate.
Total occlusion versus hairline residual lumen of the internal carotid arteries: accuracy of single section helical CT angiography.	Routine carotid sonography and MR angiography cannot reliably detect the markedly reduced flow velocities associated with very severe carotid stenosis. In this study, we sought to evaluate the accuracy of single row detector helical CT angiography in distinguishing hairline residual lumen from total occlusion of severely stenosed internal carotid arteries (ICAs).
Validation of a decision rule identifying febrile young girls at high risk for urinary tract infection.	To validate a previously published clinical decision rule to predict risk of urinary tract infection in febrile young girls.
The value of fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in differentiation of pancreatic lesions]	Fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) is a functional imaging modality that is based on the metabolic activity which is higher in most malignant tumors than benign tissues. This short review describes the basics of FDG-PET and gives a discussion of its role in differentiation of focal pancreatic lesions. The diagnostic accuracy in patients with active inflammation or cancer of the pancreas can be improved by dynamic acquisition of focal pancreatic lesions.
DD3(PCA3)-based molecular urine analysis for the diagnosis of prostate cancer.	DD3(PCA3) is the most prostate cancer-specific gene described to date. To assess the clinical utility of DD3(PCA3) a time-resolved fluorescence-based, quantitative RT-PCR analysis for DD3(PCA3) was developed.
Detection of inter-hemispheric asymmetries of brain perfusion in SPECT.	Technetium-99m HMPAO and technetium-99m ECD single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging is commonly used to highlight brain regions with altered perfusion. It is particularly useful in the investigation of intractable partial epilepsy. However, SPECT suffers from poor spatial resolution that makes interpretation difficult. In this context, we propose an unsupervised voxel neighbourhood based method to assist the detection of significant functional inter-hemispheric asymmetries in brain SPECT, using anatomical information from MRI. For each MRI voxel, the anatomically homologous voxel in the contralateral hemisphere is identified. Both homologous voxel coordinates are then mapped into the SPECT volume using SPECT-MRI registration. Neighbourhoods are then defined around each SPECT voxel and compared to obtain a volume of inter-hemispheric differences. A volume including only the statistically significant inter-hemispheric differences is deduced from this volume using a non-parametric approach. The method was validated using realistic analytical simulated SPECT data including known asymmetries (in size and amplitude) as ground truth (gold standard). Detection performance was assessed using an ROC (receiver operating characteristic) approach based on the measures of the overlap between known and detected asymmetries. Validation with computer-simulated data demonstrates the ability to detect asymmetric zones with relatively small extension and amplitude. The registration of these detected functional asymmetries on the MRI enables good anatomical localization to be achieved.
Changes in antipyrine clearance and platelet count, but not conventional liver tests, correlate with fibrotic change in chronic hepatitis C: value for predicting fibrotic progression.	We tested whether fibrotic progression in chronic hepatitis C could be predicted by liver tests, antipyrine clearance, or platelet count.
Predictive value of pulse oximetry and fetal scalp blood pH in the case of meconium-stained amniotic fluid.	To compare the predictive value of intrapartum fetal pulse oximetry to that of fetal scalp blood pH for an abnormal neonatal outcome in the case of thick meconium.
Pretransplantation evaluation of the cirrhotic liver with explantation correlation: accuracy of CT arterioportography and digital subtraction hepatic angiography in revealing hepatocellular carcinoma.	The aim of this study was to determine the accuracy of CT arterioportography and hepatic digital subtraction angiography, separately and combined, for the detection of hepatocellular carcinoma in the cirrhotic liver by using thin-section liver explant histopathologic findings.
Standardization of flow velocities with respect to age and sex improves the accuracy of transcranial color Doppler sonography of middle cerebral artery spasm.	The overall accuracy of transcranial Doppler sonography in the diagnosis of middle cerebral artery spasm has not been established. Moreover, the factors of age and sex have not been addressed in most studies. In this article, we present receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis of the accuracy of transcranial color Doppler sonography in diagnosing middle cerebral artery spasm on the basis of flow velocities standardized for age and sex. SUBJECTS AND METHODS. We prospectively studied 214 consecutive patients (110 male, 104 female; age range, 12-77 years) who were routinely referred for cerebral angiography. Middle cerebral artery spasm was graded as mild (</= 25% of vessel caliber reduction) and moderate to severe (> 25% reduction). Angle-corrected blood velocity measurements were obtained using a 2.5-MHz probe. The velocity values were reexpressed as a percentage of the mean of normal reference values for the relevant age, for subjects younger than 40 years, and for sex.
Frequent wheeze at follow up of very preterm infants: which factors are predictive?	To determine if chest radiograph appearance at 28 days or 36 weeks postmenstrual age (PMA) can predict recurrent wheeze or cough at follow up in prematurely born infants more effectively than readily available clinical data.
HER-2/neu gene product in serum--an oncoprotein in the diagnosis and therapy of breast carcinoma.	The HER-2/neu oncogene codes a protein of the family of epidermal growth factor receptors. The extracellular domain has a MW from 95-105 kDa and is shed into the blood. In some patients with malignant tumors there is a high expression of HER-2/neu connected with high levels of HER-2/neu protein in the serum. High concentrations signal aggressive growth, bad prognosis and shorter survival. The reference range lies between 4.0 and 14.0 ng/ml with a mean of 9.0 ng/ml. There is a significant difference of values between patients with and without metastases, but not between healthy people and patients without metastases. The advantage of this parameter lies in the early diagnosis of recurrence in the therapy of metastasizing breast carcinomas especially on treatment with Herceptin.
Usefulness of alpha-fetoprotein in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma.	With the widespread use of ultrasonography (US) and computerized tomography (CT), the usefulness of alpha-fetoprotein assay in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has decreased. The aim of our study was to evaluate the best cut-off value for serum alpha-fetoprotein to discriminate between liver cirrhosis (LC) and HCC and the factors influencing levels in a Sicilian population. Three hundred and seventy-two patients with LC and 197 with HCC-associated LC were studied. The etiology was: HCV in 288 cases (77.4%) of LC and 147 cases (75%) of HCC; HBV in 31 cases (8.3%) of LC and 15 cases (7.6%) of HCC; HCV/HBV in 21 cases (5.6%) of LC and 6 cases (3.0%) of HCC; non-viral in 32 cases (8.6%) of LC and 29 cases (15%) of HCC. Hepatic function was estimated by the Child-Pugh's score; the TNM classification was used in HCC. The area under the ROC curve was 0.81 +/- 0.02; the best discriminant cut-off value, calculated as the value of the maximized likelihood ratio, was 30 ng/ml. At this level sensitivity (SE) was 65%, specificity (SP) 89%, positive predictive value (PPV) 74% and negative predictive value (NPV) 79%. When the patients were divided at this cut-off point into two groups according to viral or non-viral etiology, PPV was 70% versus 94%, respectively (p < 0.05). In the non-viral diseases PPV reached 100% for AFP serum levels of 100 ng/ml, while in the viral diseases PPV was 100% when AFP was greater than 400 ng/ml. There were no significant differences in SE, SP or NPV between viral and non-viral liver diseases. Child's classes B and C were more frequent in HCC (chi 2 of MH 7.7, p < 0.0001). There was a correlation between AFP serum values and TNM classification (p < 0.02) and on multiple logistic regression AFP levels > 30 ng/ml correlated positively only with the TNM stage (p < 0.0001). In conclusion, the best cut-off value for serum AFP in our study population was 30 ng/ml, but at this level sensitivity was low. This cut-off value was more useful in detecting non-viral HCC, because PPV was significantly higher than in viral HCC; therefore, our data confirm that the usefulness of AFP in the diagnosis of HCC of viral etiology is limited, being more useful in HCC of non-viral etiology.
The evaluation of maternal parameters at diagnosis may predict HELLP syndrome severity.	Hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, low platelets (HELLP) syndrome, a severe manifestation of pre-eclampsia and/or intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) of the fetoplacental unit, is classified into three classes, according to the lowest platelet count observed during the course of the disease. The aim of our work was to analyze the levels of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), aspartate transferase (AST), alanine transferase (ALT) and platelets at the time of HELLP syndrome diagnosis, to find possible cut-off values that could predict the severity of the syndrome from its early onset.
3D-imaging of the facial skeleton with an isocentric mobile C-arm system (Siremobil Iso-C3D).	The purpose of this study was to compare three-dimensional (3D) imaging of the facial skeleton using an isocentric mobile C-arm system vs CT.
Effect of data compression on proximal caries detection: observer performance with DenOptix photostimulable phosphor images.	To study the effect of lossy image compression on caries detection. Null hypothesis states no difference in caries detection efficacy among observers using original digital images versus images compressed at various rates of compression.
A simple model to predict coronary disease in patients undergoing operation for mitral regurgitation.	Coexistent coronary disease can be identified in a third of patients with mitral valve disease. This study aims to evaluate candidate selection strategy using risk factor identification and logistic regression and to develop an additive model for the prediction of coexistent coronary disease.
Ultrasonography in patients with chronic liver disease: its usefulness in the diagnosis of cirrhosis.	To prospectively assess the usefulness of ultrasonography in predicting the presence of cirrhosis in patients with asymptomatic chronic liver disease in unknown stage.
An evaluation of existing risk stratification models as a tool for comparison of surgical performances for coronary artery bypass grafting between institutions.	Risk stratification systems are used in cardiac surgery to estimate mortality risk for individual patients and to compare surgical performance between institutions or surgeons. This study investigates the suitability of six existing risk stratification systems for these purposes.
Contributions of symptoms, signs, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and C-reactive protein to a diagnosis of pneumonia in acute lower respiratory tract infection.	Diagnostic tests enabling general practitioners (GPs) to differentiate rapidly between pneumonia and other lower respiratory tract infections (LRTIs) are needed to prevent increase of bacterial resistance by unjustified antibiotic prescribing.
Prognostic value of humoral and metabolic markers as an evaluation of risk for developing type 1 diabetes]	Clinical symptoms of type 1 diabetes are preceded by a long period of prediabetes stage characterised by anti-islet antibodies occurrence as well as insulin and C-peptide secretion disturbances. The aim of this study was to define the prognostic value of type 1 diabetes antiislet humoral markers (ICA, anti-GAD, anti-IA2 and IAA) and to find out thresholds for insulin and C-peptide levels at which clinically overt type 1 diabetes develops. Antiislet antibodies, serum C-peptide and insulin were determined in 86 children who, considering their antiislet autoantibodies levels, were classified as prediabetics (mean value of the observation period: 50 months). 8 (9.3%) children, who after a mean time of 35 months of prediabetes stage developed clinically overt type 1 diabetes, were selected from this group. ICA were determined by indirect immunofluorescence; anti-GAD and IAA by radioimmunoprecipitation. C-peptide and insulin levels were evaluated by radioimmunologic assays (CIS Bio International, France). Kaplan-Meier life table analysis revealed pEFS=0.89 after 92 months' observation. The risk of developing diabetes within 80 months was established. For children with positive ICA the risk rate was 0.21, for ICA and anti-GAD positive individuals - 0.39, and for ICA and IA2 positive - 0.74. A significant difference in insulin and C-peptide levels was found between children who developed clinically overt type 1 diabetes and those in prediabetes stage (9.90 vs. 21.45 micro U/ml, p<0.008; 0.34 vs. 0.67 pM/ml, p<0.001 respectively). For both hormones thresholds for high risk of developing clinically overt diabetes were pointed out. Using ROC method the threshold for insulin was determined at 12.9 micro U/ml, for C-peptide at 0.45 pM/ml. Not only the presence and levels of autoantibodies but also the plasma concentrations of C-peptide and insulin are important prognostics of clinical onset of type 1 diabetes mellitus.
A comparison of primate prefrontal and inferior temporal cortices during visual categorization.	Previous studies have suggested that both the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and inferior temporal cortex (ITC) are involved in high-level visual processing and categorization, but their respective roles are not known. To address this, we trained monkeys to categorize a continuous set of visual stimuli into two categories, "cats" and "dogs." The stimuli were parametrically generated using a computer graphics morphing system (Sheltonelton, 2000) that allowed precise control over stimulus shape. After training, we recorded neural activity from the PFC and the ITC of monkeys while they performed a category-matching task. We found that the PFC and the ITC play distinct roles in category-based behaviors: the ITC seems more involved in the analysis of currently viewed shapes, whereas the PFC showed stronger category signals, memory effects, and a greater tendency to encode information in terms of its behavioral meaning.
Fundamental measures of diagnostic examination performance: usefulness for clinical decision making and research.	Measures of diagnostic accuracy, such as sensitivity, specificity, predictive values, and receiver operating characteristic curves, can often seem like abstract mathematic concepts that have a minimal relationship with clinical decision making or clinical research. The purpose of this article is to provide definitions and examples of these concepts that illustrate their usefulness in specific clinical decision-making tasks. In particular, nine principles are provided to guide the use of these concepts in daily radiology practice, in interpreting clinical literature, and in designing clinical research studies. An understanding of these principles and of the measures of diagnostic accuracy to which they apply is vital to the appropriate evaluation and use of diagnostic imaging examinations.
Prevalence effect in a laboratory environment.	To measure observer performance at various levels of prevalence.
Predicting delirium after vascular surgery: a model based on pre- and intraoperative data.	The aim of the study was to determine pre- and intraoperative risk factors for the development of postoperative delirium among patients undergoing aortic, carotid, and peripheral vascular surgery to predict the risk for postoperative delirium.
Brief alcoholism screening questionnaire: establishment and validity in Taiwanese.	There has been a marked increase in the prevalence of alcoholism in the Taiwanese population over the past 6 decades. This study was designed to establish a Taiwanese Brief Alcoholism Screening Questionnaire (BASQ) for use in early detection in medical and public health settings.
Validation of a clinical protocol for the detection of dementia in the population]	To analyse the validity of a set of neuropsychological and functional tests, and to study their value in detecting and diagnosing dementia through a pilot study.
Is kidney size a useful predictor of renal function in the elderly?	Despite its widespread use, the diagnostic yield of ultrasonography to detect early stages of reduced renal function in the elderly remains doubtful.
Acute oral pain intensity and pain threshold assessed by intensity matching to pain induced by electrical stimuli.	To investigate a recently developed pain-intensity matching device (Painmatcher) in terms of reproducibility, pain intensity, and unpleasantness experienced by healthy individuals upon pain threshold assessment, as well as differences in pain threshold between genders and between healthy individuals and patients with acute oral pain, and the relation between pain-intensity assessments by the Painmatcher and a visual analog scale (VAS) in the patients.
Use of receiver operating characteristic curves to evaluate sediment quality guidelines for metals.	Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves are commonly used in the biomedical field to assess the quality of a diagnostic test. The area under an ROC curve, which ranges from 0.5 to 1.0, is a measure of the overall effectiveness of a diagnostic test. These curves can be used to elucidate compromises in sensitivity (ability to correctly classify a toxic sample as toxic) and specificity (ability to correctly classify a nontoxic sample as nontoxic) associated with a given threshold. In this study, ROC curves were used to evaluate methods for estimating acute toxicity of metals in marine sediments. Differences in the effectiveness of speciation (comparisons of labile sulfides with simultaneously extracted metals) and total sediment concentration (such as the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration Guidelines, Washington, DC) approaches were assessed by using a database of field and laboratory spiked sediments. Despite uncertainties associated with these methods, the areas under the ROC curves ranged from 0.84 to 0.89 for all approaches tested, with no significant differences between speciation and whole sediment approaches. Thresholds commonly used by environmental managers, although yielding high sensitivity, came at the expense of low specificity. Thresholds providing desirable trade-offs in sensitivity and specificity generally are higher than commonly used thresholds.
Ultrasonic tissue characterization for prostate diagnostics: spectral parameters vs. texture parameters.	An ultrasonic multi-feature tissue characterizing system for the detection of prostate cancer is presented. The system is based on the processing of radio frequency (RF) ultrasonic echo data. Data from 100 patients was acquired in a clinical study. Parameters are extracted from the RF echo data and classified using two adaptive network-based fuzzy inference systems (FIS) working in parallel as a nonlinear classifier. Next to spectral parameters, conventional texture parameters are calculated using demodulated and log-compressed echo data. In the first approach, the classifier is trained on both, spectral and texture parameters. In the second approach, the classifier is only trained on texture parameters. Classification results of both approaches are compared and it is demonstrated, that only the use of spectral parameters yields satisfying classification results. Results of a minimum distance classifier (MDC) are presented for comparison with the fuzzy inference system. For the final fuzzy inference systems used in this approach, the area under the ROC curve is between 84% and 86% for the combined approach and between 70% and 74% for the approach based on texture parameters only.
Malignant and benign breast tissue classification performance using a scatterer structure preclassifier.	Benign and malignant breast tissue classification is examined for generalized-spectrum parameters computed from RF ultrasound data when a preclassification of subregions based on general scattering properties is performed. Results using a clinical database of 84 patients show statistically significant improvements (over 10% in receiver operation characteristic (ROC) areas) when only coherent scatterer subregions are used as compared to using all subregions within the region of interest.
Clinical evaluation of risk factors for coronary heart disease]	To explore the relationship between risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) and coronary artery lesions.
Distinguishing and combining risks for sexual and violent recidivism.	A two-dimensional risk assessment system for sexual offenders was created that can classify them for risk of sexual recidivism, risk of nonsexual violent recidivism, and the composite risk of reconviction for sexual or nonsexual assaults. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses of separate follow-up samples were used for cross-validation. The system is easier to score than Static-99, and substantially easier to score than the VRAG or SORAG, while yielding comparable predictive accuracy in cross-validation samples with follow-ups from 2 years to 19 years. ROC AUC coefficients between.74 and.81 were found for the different scales and samples.
The HE4 (WFDC2) protein is a biomarker for ovarian carcinoma.	The WFDC2 (HE4) gene is amplified in ovarian carcinomas, whereas its expression in normal tissues, including ovary, is low. Although the function of the HE4 protein is unknown,it is a member of a family of stable 4-disulfide core proteins that are secreted at high levels. We therefore performed experiments to explore whether quantitation of HE4 protein levels in serum can be used as a biomarker for ovarian carcinoma. A fusion gene was constructed encoding the HE4 protein fused to a gene encoding the murine IgG2a Fc domain. Subsequently, protein produced in mammalian cells was purified by affinity chromatography and used to immunize mice to generate hybridomas specific for HE4. Hybridoma supernatants were screened for binding to a similar fusion protein that, instead, had a human immunoglobulin tail. Two hybridomas, 2H5 and 3D8, were selected that produce monoclonal antibodies to different HE4 epitopes, and a double determinant ("Sandwich") ELISA was constructed and shown to detect a signal at the 160-pg level. Blinded studies on sera from postmenopausal patients with ovarian carcinoma and controls indicate that the specificity and sensitivity of the HE4-based ELISA is equivalent to that of the CA125 assay. However, the HE4 assay may have an advantage over the CA125 assay in that it is less frequently positive in patients with nonmalignant disease.
Association of mutation position in polycystic kidney disease 1 (PKD1) gene and development of a vascular phenotype.	Patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) are at risk of developing intracranial aneurysms, and subarachnoid haemorrhage is a major cause of death and disability. Familial clustering of intracranial aneurysms suggests that genetic factors are important in the aetiology. We tested whether the germline mutation predisposes to this vascular phenotype.
Prevalence of metallo-beta-lactamase among Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Acinetobacter baumannii in a Korean university hospital and comparison of screening methods for detecting metallo-beta-lactamase.	To identify the metallo-beta-lactamases (MBLs) prevalent in Korea, a total of 130 clinical isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Acinetobacter baumannii (99 P. aeruginosa and 31 A. baumannii) with a reduced susceptibility to imipenem (IPM) and/or ceftazidime (CAZ) was subjected to PCR analyses with primers specific to bla(IMP-1), bla(VIM-1), and bla(VIM-2). In addition, inhibitor-potentiated disk diffusion methods (IPD) using two kinds of substrate-inhibitor combinations (ceftazidime-2-mercaptopropionic acid (2MPA) and imipenem-EDTA) were investigated. Thirty-three isolates (29 P. aeruginosa and 4 A. baumannii) carried bla(VIM-2) and two P. aeruginosa isolates harbored bla(IMP-1). The enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus PCR (ERIC-PCR) pattern revealed that many of the VIM-2-producing P. aeruginosa isolates were clonally related, whereas the A. baumannii isolates were diverse. The inhibitor-potentiated disk diffusion test using imipenem-EDTA was highly sensitive and specific for detecting the VIM-2 producer. These results suggest that VIM-2 is an important MBL in P. aeruginosa and A. baumannii in the Korean hospital of this study and that the IMP-1-producing P. aeruginosa has also emerged. Screening for MBLs and strict infection control for these isolates will contribute to prevent further spread of resistance.
Detection of subclinical brain electrical activity changes in Huntington's disease using artificial neural networks.	The aim of this study was to analyze EEG background activity in Huntington's disease (HD) patients and relatives at risk, in relation to CAG repeat size and clinical state, in order to detect an electrophysiological marker of early disease.
The value of biliary fibronectin for diagnosis of cholangiocarcinoma.	The fibronectin in various body fluids was reported to be useful in the differential diagnosis of benign and malignant diseases. We conducted this study to assess the diagnostic value of biliary fibronectin.
Dynamic MR imaging of the breast. Analysis of kinetic and morphologic diagnostic criteria.	To assess the value of kinetic and architectural diagnostic criteria on dynamic MR breast imaging, and to construct a scoring system for lesion characterization.
Effect of iterative restoration on the detection of artificially induced vertical radicular fractures by Tuned Aperture Computed Tomography.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of the number of iterative restorations (IR) on the diagnostic accuracy of Tuned Aperture Computed Tomography images (TACT) for detection of induced vertical/oblique root fractures in mandibular teeth.
Prediction of extrauterine growth retardation (EUGR) in VVLBW infants.	Long-term growth failure in very very low birth weight (VVLBW) infants is a common complication of extreme prematurity. Critical illnesses create challenges to adequate nutriture.
Performance indicators and validity of serum fructosamine assay as a diagnostic test in a screening program for diabetes mellitus.	To evaluate the performance indicators and validity of fructosamine assay as a diagnostic tool in screening for Diabetes mellitus (DM).
Anthropometry and body composition in northern Asian Indian patients with type 2 diabetes: receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis of body mass index with percentage body fat as standard.	To determine the anthropometric profile and appropriate cut off of body mass index (BMI) to define obesity in Asian Indians with Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
Long-term outcome of patients with silent versus symptomatic ischemia six months after percutaneous coronary intervention and stenting.	We sought to evaluate the incidence of silent ischemia versus symptomatic ischemia six months after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and its impact on prognosis and to test the utility of myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), or MPS, for risk stratification in these patients.
Combining low-intensity and maximal exercise test results improves prognostic prediction in chronic heart failure.	This study investigated the combination of maximal and low-intensity exercise testing in predicting prognosis in chronic heart failure (CHF), using one single exercise test (two-step protocol).
Trypsinogen-2 and trypsinogen activation peptide (TAP) in urine of patients with acute pancreatitis.	There is an obvious clinical need for a simple test that can identify patients at risk of developing severe acute pancreatitis. In this work we compared urinary trypsinogen-2 with urinary trypsinogen activation peptide (TAP) and serum C-reactive protein (CRP) for early differentiation between mild and severe acute pancreatitis.
Relationship of ventricular longitudinal function to contractile reserve in patients with mitral regurgitation.	Latent left ventricular (LV) dysfunction in patients with valvular or myocardial disease may be identified by loss of contractile reserve (CR) at exercise echocardiography. Contraction in the LV longitudinal axis may be more sensitive than radial contraction to minor disturbances of LV function. We sought to determine whether tissue Doppler measurement of longitudinal function could be used to identify CR.
The renal arterial resistance index and renal allograft survival.	Most renal transplants fail because of chronic allograft nephropathy or because the recipient dies, but no reliable factor predicting long-term outcome has been identified. We tested whether a renal arterial resistance index of less than 80 was predictive of long-term allograft survival.
Stone recurrence predictive score (SRPS) for patients with calcium oxalate stones.	We developed a convenient, self-administered 8-item stone recurrence predictive score (SRPS) to predict the recurrence of calcium oxalate stones.
Comparison of the predictive accuracy of serum prostate specific antigen levels and prostate specific antigen density in the detection of prostate cancer in Hispanic-American and white men.	The Hispanic-American population is the fastest growing in the United States. Although many studies have looked at the performance of prostate specific antigen (PSA) in the detection of prostate cancer in white and black men, few have looked at it in relation to Hispanic men. The objective of this study was to compare the performance of PSA and PSA density (PSAD) in the detection of prostate cancer in Hispanic and white men.
Predictive value of two-dimensional and three-dimensional multiplanar ultrasound evaluation of the cervix in preterm labor.	To compare the predictive value of conventional two-dimensional ultrasound measurement of cervical length and three-dimensional multiplanar volume assessment of the cervix for delivery at < 37 weeks of gestation among patients with preterm labor.
Spatiotemporal characteristics of dynamic feature binding in visual working memory.	It has been proposed that visual working memory can hold a set of four to five coherent object representations. As a test of this proposal, I devised a paradigm called multiple object permanence tracking (MOPT) that measures memory for feature-location binding in dynamic situations. Observers were asked to detect any feature switch in the middle of a regular rotation of a pattern with multiple objects behind an occluder. The feature switch detection performance dramatically declined as the pattern rotation velocity increased. The behavioral evidence for the use of multiple color-shape conjunction was observed only when the objects were stationary. These results cast doubt on the view that the functional unit of visual working memory involves coherent object representation, where object features are tightly bound and dynamically updated.
Dose reduction in full-field digital mammography: an anthropomorphic breast phantom study.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the potential for radiation dose reduction by using other beam qualities in full-field digital mammography (FFDM) compared with screen-film mammography (SFM). FFDM was performed using an amorphous silicon detector with a caesium iodide scintillator layer (Senographe 2000D, GE, Milwaukee, USA). SFM was performed using a state-of-the-art conventional system (Senographe DMR, GE, Milwaukee, USA) with a dedicated screen-film combination. An anthropomorphic breast phantom with superimposed microcalcifications (50-200 microm) was used to evaluate the detectability of microcalcifications. Contact mammograms and magnification views (m=1.8) performed with both the digital and the screen-film system were compared. Images were exposed automatically. Molybdenum/Molybdenum (Mo/Mo) anode-filter combination, 28 kVp and 63 mAs were selected by the automatic optimization of parameters (AOP) of the conventional system. This exposure protocol (protocol A) was also used as baseline for the digital system. Dose reduction in digital mammography was achieved by using protocol B with Mo/Rh and 31 kVp and protocol C with Rh/Rh and 32 kVp. The detectability of microcalcifications was assessed by 3 experienced readers with a confidence level ranging from 1 to 5. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed. In protocol A the area under the ROC-curve (A(z)) for contact views performed by the screen-film system was 0.64 and for those performed with the FFDM system 0.68. The A(z) values were 0.74 in protocol B and 0.65 in protocol C for the digital system. For the conventional and digital magnification views A(z) values were 0.71 and 0.79, respectively. For protocol B the A(z) value was 0.81 and for protocol C it was 0.76. There is no statistically significant difference in the A(z) values for the different protocols in digital mammography and no significant difference from the screen-film system. A potential for dose reduction by using other beam qualities seems to be possible with this digital system.
Diagnostic value of anti-cyclic citrullinated Peptide antibody in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	To explore the diagnostic value of anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide antibody (anti-CCP) detected by ELISA in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Mild cognitive impairment: prevalence and predictive validity according to current approaches.	Mild cognitive impairment is associated with an increased risk of developing dementia. However, there is no consensus on diagnostic criteria and different concepts have rarely been evaluated in population-based samples. This paper compares the prevalences and predictive validities for different concepts in a population-based study. The aim was to identify a concept with the best relation of sensitivity and specificity in the prediction of dementia.
Evaluation of clinical diagnosis scores for Boutonneuse fever.	Mediterranean spotted fever (MSF) is endemic in Tunisia. Diagnosis is confirmed retrospectively based on serology. Clinical features are suggestive of diagnosis if the triad (fever, rash, and eschar) is present. Otherwise clinical diagnosis could be difficult. A diagnosis score was already proposed by Raoult et al. The aim of this study was to evaluate this score, considering only clinical parameters, in order to help clinicians in diagnosing MSF before confirmation. We retrospectively analyzed 62 consecutive charts of patients with diagnosis of suspected MSF. Diagnosis confirmation was made by serology (IgG anti-R. conorii exceeding 128 or seroconversion). Epidemiological and clinical features and total score for each patient were reviewed. To validate the clinical score, we calculated sensitivity, specificity and the Youden index for each score in order to establish the ROC curve. SPSS was used for these statistical tests. Area under curve was 0.70 (P = 0.02). The cutoff score with the most predictive value of MSF diagnosis was 18, according to our study (sensitivity 60%, specificity 84,6% and Youden index 0.44). The MSF diagnosis score is a helpful tool to aid the clinician with presumptive management before confirmation. In our study we demonstrated that a score based only on epidemiological and clinical features could be sufficient, but we have to indicate that these results and cutoff score of 18 were from a retrospective study and should be confirmed by a well-designed prospective one.
Effects of psychosocial and individual psychological factors on the onset of musculoskeletal pain: common and site-specific effects.	To determine whether adverse psychosocial and individual psychological factors increase the risk of pain across regional sites.
Serum CA 125 is an independent prognostic factor in cervical adenocarcinoma.	The purpose of this study was to determine the prognostic significance of a pretreatment serum CA 125 value in patients who were diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of the cervix.
Grey-scale analysis allows a quantitative evaluation of thyroid echogenicity in the patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.	In the present study we have performed a grey-scale quantitative analysis of thyroid echogenicity in the patients affected by Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT), obtaining a numerical estimate of the degree of hypoechogenicity associated with the appearance of thyroid dysfunction.
The effectiveness of arginine + GHRH test compared with GHRH + GHRP-6 test in diagnosing growth hormone deficiency in adults.	The objective of this study is to investigate the performance of two novel tests in diagnosing growth hormone deficiency in adults.
Prediction of hospital discharge in immediate survivors of ventricular fibrillation or asystole.	Survival from ventricular fibrillation and asystole is influenced by variables measured during resuscitation that affect both immediate survival and discharge from hospital. These variables have been used to develop a formula to calculate an individuals chances of immediate survival and hospital discharge. It has allowed this heterogenous group to be subdivided into groups which can be compared both within and between institutions for the purposes of audit and evaluation of resuscitation protocols. This study evaluates the addition of clinical parameters to the prognostic index. One hundred twelve immediate survivors of ventricular fibrillation or asystole were examined immediately after resuscitation and clinical parameters measured and recorded. At the same time parameters previously described were recorded. The increase in the numbers of survivors improved the reliability (area under the receiver operator curve (ROC) improved from 0.79 to 0.83) of the index for predicting hospital discharge. Addition of the clinical variables of conscious state, respiratory state, blood pressure and pulse rate improved the prognostic index further to an ROC area of 0.86. This ensures that the predictive power of the new index is now highly reliable for predicting hospital discharge after successful resuscitation from ventricular fibrillation and asystole.
Change of sonographic findings on cervical lymph nodes before and after preoperative radiotherapy.	The aim of this study was to assess the changes in the power Doppler sonographic findings in patients with oral cancer undergoing chemotherapy and radiotherapy. We performed US examinations on 187 cervical lymph nodes (71 metastatic and 116 reactive nodes) excised from 52 patients before and after preoperative therapy. On Power Doppler images, we calculated the vascular index (VI) and evaluated the vascular pattern. We also assessed the diagnostic power using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Irradiation caused an increase of the VI and better visualization of the vessels within the lymph node in the reactive nodes; however, in the metastatic nodes, the VI was not significantly different between that before and after irradiation. When the reader observed the images before irradiation, the area under an ROC curve (Az values) observed by B-mode sonography were closely similar to those obtained by B-mode plus power Doppler sonography. With both images before and after irradiation, the Az value obtained by B-mode plus power Doppler sonography was higher than that by B-mode sonography alone. After irradiation, the enhanced Doppler signals contributed to a better visualization of the vessels and a better detection of any vascular abnormalities.
Auditory thalamus bursts in anesthetized and non-anesthetized states: contribution to functional properties.	Over the last 10 years, high-frequency bursts of action potentials have been the subject of intense researches to understand their potential role in information encoding. Based on recordings from auditory thalamus neurons (n = 302) collected during anesthesia (pentobarbital, urethan, or ketamine/xylazine), waking (W), and slow-wave sleep (SWS), we investigated how bursts participate to frequency tuning, intensity-function, response latency (and latency variability), and stimulus detectability. Although present in all experimental conditions, bursts never dominated the cells mode of discharge: the highest proportion was found during ketamine/xylazine anesthesia (22%), the lowest during waking (4.5%). In all experimental conditions, bursts preferentially occurred at or around the cells best frequency (BF), thus increasing the frequency selectivity. This effect was observed at both the intensities producing the highest and the lowest evoked responses. Testing the intensity-functions indicated that for most of the cells, there was no systematic relationship between burst proportion and responses strength. Under several conditions (W, SWS, and urethan), when cells exhibited bursts >20%, the variability of their response latency was reduced in burst mode compared with single-spike mode. During W, this effect was accompanied by a reduction of the response latency. Finally, a receiver operating characteristic analysis indicated no particular relation between bursts and stimulus detectability. Compared with single-spike mode, which is present for broader frequency ranges, the prominence of bursts at the BF should contribute to filter information reaching the targets of medial geniculate cells at both cortical and subcortical levels.
Lung function, bronchial responsiveness, and asthma in a community cohort of 6-year-old children.	Children as young as 6 years old can perform spirometry, yet the relationship between current asthma, lung function, and bronchial responsiveness has not been described at this age; 2,537 children from a community-based birth cohort were assessed at 6 years of age, with history (n = 2,141), physical examination (n = 1,995), standard spirometry (n = 1,735), and a random sample (n = 711) offered methacholine challenge. Males had greater values of FVC and FEV(1) but not of mean forced expiratory flow during the middle half of the FVC or FEV(1)/FVC than females. The greatest influences on lung function at 6 years were height, sex, birth weight, and wheezing in the first year of life. Children with current asthma had small but significant deficits in lung function and were more sensitive to methacholine. The optimal cutpoint for determining heightened bronchial responsiveness was found to be a 15% fall in FEV(1) at a dose of 1.8 mg/ml. A negative test could be useful in excluding a diagnosis of asthma (negative predictive value of 92%). Lung function testing, including methacholine challenge, is feasible in 5- to 7-year-old children and has the potential to contribute to the clinical management of children with asthma.
Combination of bone mineral density and upper femur geometry improves the prediction of hip fracture.	Bone mineral density (BMD) measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) is the main determinant of the clinical evaluation of hip fracture risk. However, it has been shown that BMD is not the only predictive factor for hip fracture, but that bone geometry is also important. We studied whether the combination of bone geometry and BMD could further improve the determination of hip fracture risk and fracture type. Seventy-four postmenopausal females (mean age 74 years) with a non-pathologic cervical or trochanteric hip fracture without previous hip fracture or hip surgery constituted the study group. Forty-nine had a cervical fracture (mean age 73 years) and 25 had a trochanteric fracture (mean age 76 years). The control group consisted of 40 age-matched females (mean age 74 years). The geometrical parameters were defined from plain anteroposterior radiographs, and the potential sources of inaccuracy were eliminated as far as possible by using a standardized patient position and calibrated dimension measurements with digital image analysis. BMD was measured at the femoral neck (FEBMD), Ward's triangle (WABMD), and the trochanter (TRBMD). Stepwise linear regression analysis showed that the best predictor of hip fracture was the combination of medial calcar femoral cortex width (CFC), TRBMD, neck/shaft angle (NSA), and WABMD ( r=0.72, r(2)=0.52, P<0.001). The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) for this model was 0.93, while the area under ROC for TRBMD alone was 0.81. At a specificity of 80%, sensitivity improved from 52.5% to 92.5% with this combination compared with TRBMD alone. The combined predictors of cervical and trochanteric fracture differed, being NSA, CFC, TRBMD, and WABMD for cervical and TRBMD and femoral shaft cortical thickness for trochanteric fracture. In addition, we found a statistically significant correlation between FEBMD and femoral shaft and femoral neck cortex width ( r=0.40, P<0.01 and r=0.30, P<0.01, respectively). The results confirm that the combination of BMD and radiological measures of upper femur geometry improve the assessment of the risk of hip fracture and fracture type compared to BMD alone, and that bone geometry plays an important role in the evaluation of bone strength.
Combination of APACHE-II score and an obesity score (APACHE-O) for the prediction of severe acute pancreatitis.	The advent of specific therapeutic or preventive treatments for severe acute pancreatitis creates a need to determine the risk of complications for each individual. Scoring systems used in acute pancreatitis identify groups of patients at risk of complications, but the pancreatitis-specific scores require 48 h of hospital admission to give full information. The APACHE-II score is useful within 24 h, but ignores simple clinical features, such as obesity, known to predict severity. The aim of this study was to evaluate a combination of the APACHE-II score with an obesity score in patients with acute pancreatitis, to predict severity using information available during the first 24 h of hospital admission.
Application of artificial neural networks to the analysis of dynamic MR imaging features of the breast.	The discriminative ability of established diagnostic criteria for MRI of the breast is assessed, and their relative relevance using artificial neural networks (ANNs) is determined. A total of 89 women with 105 histopathologically verified breast lesions (73 invasive cancers, 2 in situ cancers, and 30 benign lesions) were included in this study. A T1-weighted 3D FLASH sequence was acquired before and seven times after the intravenous administration of gadopentetate dimeglumine at a dose of 0.2 mmol/kg body weight. ANN models were built to test the discriminative ability of kinetic, morphologic, and combined MR features. The subjects were randomly divided into two parts: a training set of 59 lesions and a verification set of 46 lesions. The training set was used for learning, and the performance of each model was evaluated on the verification set by measuring the area under the ROC curve (Az). An optimally minimized model was constructed using the most relevant input variables that were determined by the automatic relevance determination (ARD) method. ANN models were compared with the performance of a human reader. Margin type, time-to-peak enhancement, and washout ratio showed the highest discriminative ability among diagnostic criteria and comprised the minimized model. Compared with the expert radiologist (Az = 0.799), using the same prediction scale, the minimized ANN model performed best (Az = 0.771), followed by the best kinetic (Az = 0.743), the maximized (Az = 0.727), and the morphologic model (Az = 0.678). The performance of a neural network prediction model is comparable to that of an expert radiologist. A neurostatistical approach is preferred for the analysis of diagnostic criteria when many parameters are involved and complex nonlinear relationships exist in the data set.
Cellular proliferative fraction measured with topoisomerase IIalpha predicts malignancy in endocrine pancreatic tumors.	Endocrine pancreatic tumors (EPTs) are rare lesions with varying biological behavior. Establishing malignancy is a challenge for clinicians and pathologists.
Peripheral blood circulating immature cell counts predict CD34+ cell yields in G-CSF-induced PBPC mobilization in healthy donors.	It has been previously reported that the number of circulating immature cells (CIC) in peripheral blood (PB) estimates the number of CD34+ cells collected in G-CSF plus chemotherapy-induced PBPC mobilization. The correlation of CIC counts in PB with CD34+ cell yield and its usefulness was evaluated in G-CSF-induced PBPC mobilization for healthy donors.
Influence of climate factors on emergency visits for childhood asthma attack.	Asthma attack shows strong seasonality. The purpose of the present study was to quantify the contribution of climate variables and other seasonal factors on the incidence of emergency visits for childhood asthma in Tokyo, Japan.
Time to peak velocity measurements by pulsed wave Doppler tissue imaging to quantify ischemia-related regional myocardial asynchrony.	A total of 173 patients with chest pain but without visually discernible wall-motion abnormalities by 2-dimensional echocardiography underwent pulsed wave Doppler tissue imaging examination before angiography. Segmental longest time to peak contraction velocity (Tpv) was acquired through 3 apical views. The longest time period from electrocardiographic R wave to peak velocity on segmental velocity integrals of nonapical segments was measured. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was performed for correlation analysis between segmental Tpv and significant (>or=50% luminal diameter stenosis) coronary artery stenosis. Analysis of variance test was used to compare among different patient groups with 0, 1, 2, and 3 coronary artery stenoses. Delay in Tpv on any 1 or more of the 12 nonapical segments was noted in 72 of 116 patients with angiographically significant coronary stenosis. When the longest segmental Tpv of >or=340 milliseconds was selected as a cut-off value for identification of a significant left circumflex or multivessel coronary artery stenosis, the area under receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.69 and 0.72, respectively (P =.000 and.0013, respectively). In conclusion, pulsed wave Doppler tissue imaging technique provides objective quantitative information for identification of multivessel or left circumflex coronary artery stenosis in patients with chest pain but without apparent wall-motion abnormalities on echocardiography.
Receiver operating characteristic analysis for the selection of threshold values for detection of capping in powder compression.	The acoustic emission (AE) energy obtained from compressing lactose powder to form pharmaceutical tablets was chosen for condition monitoring of the tablets. The method used was based on the setting of an AE energy decision threshold such that problems of tablet capping and lamination were successfully identified. Capping and lamination are the most common types of problem that can occur in tablets manufacturing using a powder compression process. To assess the performance of a classifier, use was made of a receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) obtained by plotting the correct detection probability against the false alarm probability based on AE energy distributions for capped and non-capped tablets. The area under the ROC curve, referred to as the AUC, determines the level of competency of the classifier. A value of 0.5 suggests a mere hazarding of guesses whilst a value of 1 indicates correct classification every time. The AE energy approach for tablet capping monitoring gives an AUC value of 0.96, thereby suggesting the possibility of a highly accurate classifier. With the assumption that penalties for false alarm and missed detection are equally severe, using the graphical method of expected penalty cost (EPC), the optimal AE energy decision threshold was established to be 1.2x10(8) units, at which the maximum correct capping detection rate of 95% was achieved. The paper also explains how a decision threshold can be obtained when the two penalties are not equal.
Analytical and diagnostic accuracy of "second generation" assays for thyrotrophin receptor antibodies with radioactive and chemiluminescent tracers.	To investigate the analytical and diagnostic accuracy of thyrotrophin (TSH) receptor antibody assays using recombinant human TSH receptors.
Peripheral arterial tonometry: a diagnostic method for detection of myocardial ischemia induced during mental stress tests: a pilot study.	Mental stress testing is considered a reliable method for diagnosing patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) who may be at risk for future events. It has been shown recently that myocardial ischemia induced during mental stress tests is specifically associated with peripheral arterial vasoconstriction.
Evaluating the performance of the Framingham risk equations in a population with diabetes.	The Framingham risk equations are widely used to estimate risk of coronary heart disease (CHD). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the reliability of these equations in predicting CHD risk in people with diabetes and the reliability of using imputed mean HDL-cholesterol values.
Models of granulocyte DNA structure are highly predictive of myelodysplastic syndrome.	We have used statistical models based on Fourier transform-infrared spectra to differentiate between the DNA structure of normal granulocytes and those obtained from patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). The substantial degree of discrimination achieved between the two DNA groups is attributed to differences in the nucleotide base and backbone structures. These structural differences allowed for the development of a discriminant analysis model that predicted, with high sensitivity and specificity, which DNA came from normal granulocytes vs. granulocytes from MDS patients. The findings are a promising basis for developing a blood test to diagnose and predict the occurrence of MDS, for which there is currently a paucity of molecular markers.
Factors associated or related to with pathological severity of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has been more and more often regarded as a serious disorder, because nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), a part of NAFLD, may progress to the end stage of liver disease. Though an advanced age, obesity, diabetes mellitus (DM) etc. being not infrequent conditions in Korea, are known to exacerbate the severity of this disease, there are only a few Korean reports on this subject. The purpose of this study is to identify possible factors that might add up to the pathological severity of this disorder in Korean patients.
Screening for depression in head and neck cancer.	The objectives of this study are to identify the prevalence of depression and the accuracy of depression screening instruments in ambulatory head and neck cancer patients who have received radiation. This population is at risk for depression because of the life-threatening nature of the illness, and treatment-induced oral morbidity.
Transvaginal ultrasonography for cervical assessment before induction of labor.	To evaluate the value of ultrasonographic cervical assessment in predicting the outcome of labor induction and to compare its performance against the Bishop score.
Multidetector CT angiography of arterial inflow and runoff in the lower extremities: a challenge in data acquisition and evaluation.	To show the feasibility of acquiring homogenous 3-dimensional datasets with high temporal and spatial resolution from computed tomographic angiographic (CTA) scans of the lower extremities and to assess automated vessel-tracking techniques for vascular evaluation.
Maximum tolerable dose of cyclophosphamide and azathioprine in Pakistani patients with primary renal disease.	The immunosuppressive regimens, at present, mainly rely on western guidelines that were derived from studies conducted in western populations. No such study exists for South Asian population, which is home to almost two billion people different in both genetics and environment from west. Locally derived thresholds for side effects markedly different from western figures may warrant re-adjustment of current local immunosuppressive regimens that are at present based largely on western guidelines. In order to define optimum dose for Cyclophosphamide (CYC) and Azathioprine (AZA) based immunosuppressive therapy, we conducted this study to find out maximum tolerable doses of azathioprine (AZA) and cyclophosphamide (CYC) beyond which neutropenia and thrombocytepenia are most likely to occur in patients with primary renal pathology.
Development of screening indicators for ranking areas at risk of vitamin A deficiency in Thailand.	The objective of this study was to develop community based screening indicators for identifying areas at risk of vitamin A deficiency. Three hundred children aged 24-71 months in 12 villages of 3 provinces who were previously identified to have various degrees of vitamin A deficiency were randomly selected to participate in the study. These villages were located in Songkhla, Yala and Narathiwat provinces. Data collection included anthropometric measurements, serum retinol analysis, data on dietary intake, illness, and socioeconomic status. Subsamples of 120 children were taken for Modified Relative Dose Response. Statistics used for data analysis were factor analysis, discriminant analysis and Receiver Operating Characteristic curves. Sensitivity and specificity of the screening indicators were calculated and compared with the rate of vitamin A deficiency at > or = 15 per cent of children with serum retinol < 0.70 micromol/l. Findings revealed that the screening indicators could identify areas at risk of vitamin A deficiency with 83.3 per cent efficiency. Data to be used for identifying areas at risk of vitamin A deficiency included home and land ownership for agriculture, dietary intake of vitamin A, access to social services (maternal education and antenatal care), vaccination, infectious diseases (diarrhoea and upper respiratory tract infection with fever) and nutritional status.
Increased serum maternal levels of the HER2 oncoprotein p105 ectodomain in preeclampsia.	HER2/ERBB2 protein is a 185 kDa transmembrane growth factor receptor whose extracellular domain, a 105 kDa fragment (p105), can be released from cell surfaces by proteolytic cleavage. The aim of our study was to compare serum p105 concentrations in normal and pathological pregnancies and to determine whether any correlation exists between preeclampsia and p105 levels. Serum p105 was assayed in 96 non-pregnant women and 89 pregnant women (26 normotensive, 14 normotensive with a history of preeclampsia or fetal hypotrophy, 10 with chronic hypertension, 10 with gestational hypertension and 29 with preeclampsia). Median serum p105 levels (median; 95% confidence interval) were higher in the preeclampsia group (13.9 microg/l; 12.8-16.1 microg/l) than in the normotensive (11.7 microg/l; 10.6-13.3 microg/l; p < 0.05) or non-pregnant groups (9.3 microg/l; 8.9-9.6 microg/l; p < 0.001). There were no significant differences between the other pregnancy groups. In the normotensive group, serum p105 was correlated with the number of gestations (r = 0.46; p < 0.05), parity (r = 0.39; p < 0.05) and placenta weight (r = 0.61; p < 0.05). In preeclamptic women, serum p105 correlated with parity (r = 0.46; p < 0.05). Serum p105 concentrations above 11.9 microg/l were associated with a high odds ratio (OR) for onset of preeclampsia (after adjustment for parity OR = 9.0; 95% CI = 2.3-36.0; p < 0.005). Preeclampsia is associated with increased serum p105 concentrations, which may be related to increased fetomaternal cell traffic.
Early mortality in coronary bypass surgery: the EuroSCORE versus The Society of Thoracic Surgeons risk algorithm.	We compare two widely used risk algorithms for coronary bypass surgery: The European System for Cardiac Operative Risk Evaluation (EuroSCORE) and The Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS) risk stratification algorithm.
A sensitive new indicator for diagnostics of ovarian malignancy, based on the Doppler velocity spectrum.	Ovarian cancer is the most deadly gynecological malignancy, with an overall survival rate of about 35%. Approximately 60% of the cases of ovarian cancer are lethal. Ultrasonic examination, including Doppler imaging, is a commonly used technique for the diagnosis of ovarian masses. Two major clinical parameters, currently derived from the Doppler flow waveform, are the resistance index (RI) and the pulsatility index (PI). The decay constant of the Doppler waveform, which characterizes its decrease from systole to diastole as an exponential decay, has recently been presented as an additional measure of tumor malignancy. In this paper, we have analyzed the velocity spectrum of the Doppler flow signal to determine if it reveals differences that might contribute to the diagnosis of malignancy. We designed a new parameter characterizing the slope of the mean velocity spectrum at end-diastole ("End Diastolic Velocity Distribution Slope," referred to as DVD_S). Additional indices, related to various approaches for the analysis of the Doppler image, were also derived. However, they proved to be inferior to the DVD_S. The DVD_S was tested on 20 benign and 33 malignant ovarian images. This new parameter seems to provide a good ability to discriminate between the two types of tumor. Its mean value is 1.90 +/- 1.33 for malignant tumors, compared to 9.21 +/- 5.34 for benign masses (area under ROC curve: 0.983), yielding a detection rate of about 94%. In fact, this parameter provides much better results than the previously used variables, and has the potential to significantly improve the detection of malignancy.
Effects of sex, age and BMI on screening tests for impaired glucose tolerance.	The discriminating abilities of fasting plasma glucose (FPG) and HbA1c were compared on screening tests for impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and IGT plus diabetes mellitus by the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Furthermore, effects of sex, age and BMI were examined on sensitivity and specificity of the optimal cutoff points. This study included 997 subjects who were recruited for 75 g OGTT after the first screening of the Japan Diabetes Prevention Program. According to the 1997 criteria of the American Diabetes Association (ADA), 140 subjects were classified as diabetic and 256 as IGT. The areas under the ROC curves of FPG were significantly larger than those of HbA1c. The optimal cutoff points of FPG were 102 mg/dl for IGT and 105 mg/dl for IGT plus diabetes mellitus. Those of HbA1c were both 5.3%. In screening with FPG, females had significantly lower sensitivity and higher specificity than males, and the specificity for IGT plus diabetes mellitus was the lowest in the obese group. In screening with HbA1c, the specificity was low in the older and the obese groups. We concluded that FPG was superior to HbA1c for screening of IGT and IGT plus diabetes mellitus and the optimal cutoff point of FPG would be 102 mg/dl or greater.
Performance of a bedside C-reactive protein test in the diagnosis of community-acquired pneumonia in adults with acute cough.	To evaluate the performance of a rapid, bedside whole blood C-reactive protein test as a diagnostic test for pneumonia in adults.
Intracranial vessel segmentation from time-of-flight MRA using pre-processing of the MIP Z-buffer: accuracy of the ZBS algorithm.	We evaluate the accuracy of a vascular segmentation algorithm which uses continuity in the maximum intensity projection (MIP) depth Z-buffer as a pre-processing step to generate a list of 3D seed points for further segmentation. We refer to the algorithm as Z-buffer segmentation (ZBS). The pre-processing of the MIP Z-buffer is based on smoothness measured using the minimum chi-square value of a least square fit. Points in the Z-buffer with chi-square values below a selected threshold are used as seed points for 3D region growing. The ZBS algorithm couples spatial continuity information with intensity information to create a simple yet accurate segmentation algorithm. We examine the dependence of the segmentation on various parameters of the algorithm. Performance is assessed in terms of the inclusion/exclusion of vessel/background voxels in the segmentation of intracranial time-of-flight MRA images. The evaluation is based on 490,256 voxels from 14 patients which were classified by an observer. ZBS performance was compared to simple thresholding and to segmentation based on vessel enhancement filtering. The ZBS segmentation was only weakly dependent on the parameters of the initial MIP image generation, indicating the robustness of this approach. Region growing based on Z-buffer generated seeds was advantageous compared to simple thresholding. The ZBS algorithm provided segmentation accuracies similar to that obtained with the vessel enhancement filter. The ZBS performance was notably better than the filter based segmentation for aneurysms where the assumptions of the filter were violated. As currently implemented the algorithm slightly under-segments the intracranial vasculature.
Screening for psychiatric disorders in outpatients with DSM-IV substance use disorders.	Psychiatric disorders are frequent in patients with substance use disorders, and have been associated with increased morbidity and poorer treatment outcome. Because of the clinical importance of comorbid mental disorders, concerns have been raised about the detection of psychiatric disorders in patients with substance use disorders. The Psychiatric Diagnostic Screening Questionnaire (PDSQ) is a brief, psychometrically strong, self-report scale designed to screen for the most common DSM-IV Axis I disorders encountered in outpatient mental health settings. Previously we described the diagnostic performance of the PDSQ in a large sample of psychiatric outpatients. For the present report, we examined the performance of the PDSQ in psychiatric outpatients with drug and alcohol abuse and dependence, and determined whether its performance in patients with substance use disorders is as good as it is in patients without substance use disorders. For the patients with a substance use disorder, 92% of the comorbid mental disorders were detected by the PDSQ subscales (i.e., mean sensitivity across subscales equals 92%) and 97% of the patients who screened negative did not have a disorder (i.e., mean negative predictive value equals 97%). For patients without a substance use disorder, the mean sensitivity and negative predictive values were 88% and 95%, respectively. Receiver Operating Characteristic curves were plotted for each PDSQ subscale for both patient groups, and all areas under the curve were significant and similar in the two groups.
Gestational diabetes: implications of variation in post-partum follow-up criteria.	To compare the recommendations of the American Diabetes Association (ADA) with the World Health Organization (WHO) for evaluating women with gestational diabetes (GDM) after delivery.
Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve: practical review for radiologists.	The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, which is defined as a plot of test sensitivity as they coordinate versus its 1-specificity or false positive rate (FPR) as the x coordinate, is an effective method of evaluating the performance of diagnostic tests. The purpose of this article is to provide a nonmathematical introduction to ROC analysis. Important concepts involved in the correct use and interpretation of this analysis, such as smooth and empirical ROC curves, parametric and nonparametric methods, the area under the ROC curve and its 95% confidence interval, the sensitivity at a particular FPR, and the use of a partial area under the ROC curve are discussed. Various considerations concerning the collection of data in radiological ROC studies are briefly discussed. An introduction to the software frequently used for performing ROC analyses is also presented.
Cell-free fetal DNA (SRY locus) concentration in maternal plasma is directly correlated to the time elapsed from the onset of preeclampsia to the collection of blood.	To determine (1) if fetal DNA (fDNA) in the maternal circulation in women affected by preeclampsia correlates with the time elapsed from the onset of symptoms to the time of blood collection, and (2) if the inclusion of this variable improves the discrimination between affected and unaffected patients by using fDNA distributions.
Does ultrasound examination when the cervix is unfavorable improve the prediction of failed labor induction?	To compare the Bishop score, ultrasound cervical parameters and fetal fibronectin assessment for predicting failed labor induction when the cervix is unfavorable.
Detecting particles in cryo-EM micrographs using learned features.	A new learning-based approach is presented for particle detection in cryo-electron micrographs using the Adaboost learning algorithm. The approach builds directly on the successful detectors developed for the domain of face detection. It is a discriminative algorithm which learns important features of the particle's appearance using a set of training examples of the particles and a set of images that do not contain particles. The algorithm is fast (10 s on a 1.3 GHz Pentium M processor), is generic, and is not limited to any particular shape or size of the particle to be detected. The method has been evaluated on a publicly available dataset of 82 cryoEM images of keyhole lympet hemocyanin (KLH). From 998 automatically extracted particle images, the 3-D structure of KLH has been reconstructed at a resolution of 23.2 A which is the same resolution as obtained using particles manually selected by a trained user.
The effect of a 5-week wobble-board exercise intervention on ability to discriminate different degrees of ankle inversion, barefoot and wearing shoes: a study in healthy elderly.	There is some evidence of an improvement in falls risk in the elderly after completing a wobble-board training program. This study examined the effects of wobble-board training on ability to discriminate between different extents of ankle inversion movements in a group of older subjects, tested wearing shoes and barefoot.
Combining cycle day 7 follicle count with the basal antral follicle count improves the prediction of ovarian response.	To analyze the predictive value of cycle day 7 follicle count (CD7-FC) for poor ovarian response during IVF in women down-regulated with a luteal start of GnRH analogue (long protocol).
Procalcitonin and the early diagnosis of infective endocarditis.	Variability in the clinical presentation of infective endocarditis (IE) makes the diagnosis a clinical challenge. We hypothesized that serum procalcitonin, a marker of systemic bacterial infection, might be helpful in its diagnosis.
Alzheimer disease: operating characteristics of PET--a meta-analysis.	To assess the operating characteristics of positron emission tomography (PET) by using fluorine 18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) in the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease.
Short-term treatment with proton-pump inhibitors as a test for gastroesophageal reflux disease: a meta-analysis of diagnostic test characteristics.	A response to proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) is commonly considered to support the diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). However, the accuracy of this diagnostic strategy has not been well established.
Application of receiver operating characteristics curve (ROC) analysis when definitive and suspect morphologic flags appear in the new Coulter LH 750 analyzer.	Workflow efficiency is important in every laboratory. Manual assessment of white blood cell counts and differentials that have been rejected by an automated analyzer is one of the most time-consuming tasks in the routine hematology laboratory. In this study, receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis was used for the first time when anomalous distribution and suspect flag alarms appeared in hemograms carried out with the new Beckman Coulter LH 750 analyzer. This article is our second about the LH 750 analyzer published in this journal; we increased the number of cases and describe the novel application of statistical analysis of ROC curves. In processing of specimens from patients with 3% to 6% immature granulocytes (myelocytes + metamyelocytes + bands ), the suspect flag Imm Ne 1 (immature granulocytes) showed 77% diagnostic efficiency with a maximum area under curve (AUC) of 0.71 and a 95% confidence interval (CI) of 0.597 to 0.831 without significant differences between the 3 available levels of alarms in the analyzer (L1, L2, L2). In processing of specimens from patients with >6% immature granulocytes, the Imm Ne 1 flag showed superior diagnostic efficiency of 98% with a maximum AUC of 0.80 and a CI of 0.713 to 0.879. The suspect flag Imm Ne 2 in processing of specimens from patients with >6% of immature granulocytes showed diagnostic efficiency of 92% with a maximum AUC of 0.77 and a CI of 0.665 to 0.871, finding a significant positive difference in level L3 regarding sensitivity in comparison with the other 2 levels of the analyzer (L1, L2). For specimens from patients with >2% blasts, the suspect Blasts alarm showed a diagnostic efficiency of 94%, an AUC of 0.91, and a CI of 0.775 to 1.043; positive differences were observed between the levels L2/L3 and L1. In processing of specimens with variant lymphocytes (large, granular, prolymphocytes, cleaved, chronic lymphocytic leukemia type, and so forth) >10% (x = 14%), the suspect alarm Var Lym (variant lymphocytes) showed a low diagnostic sensitivity of 20% with a maximum AUC of 0.59 and a CI of 0.300 to 0.870 without significant differences between the 3 available levels (L1, L2, L3). However, in processing of specimens presenting values >10% reactive or activated lymphocytes (x = 23%), typical for patients with infectious mononucleosis, the Var Lym flag showed a superior sensitivity of 75% with a diagnostic efficiency of 92% and an AUC of 0.84 with a CI of 0.587 to 1.089. Finally, the laboratory can easily program definitive abnormal morphological flags of distribution (granulocytosis, eosinophilia, monocytosis, and so forth) on the basis of its patient population. In this study we were able to carry out comparisons of AUC and to choose the values for the automated counts in percentage, absolute value, or both. Therefore we were able to define the reliability and impact on the alarm routine to optimize the performance of the user-adjustable definitive alarms for anomalous distribution.
Computerized analysis of mammographic parenchymal patterns for assessing breast cancer risk: effect of ROI size and location.	The long-term goal of our research is to develop computerized radiographic markers for assessing breast density and parenchymal patterns that may be used together with clinical measures for determining the risk of breast cancer and assessing the response to preventive treatment. In our earlier studies, we found that women at high risk tended to have dense breasts with mammographic patterns that were coarse and low in contrast. With our method, computerized texture analysis is performed on a region of interest (ROI) within the mammographic image. In our current study, we investigate the effect of ROI size and ROI location on the computerized texture features obtained from 90 subjects (30 BRCA1/BRCA2 gene-mutation carriers and 60 age-matched women deemed to be at low risk for breast cancer). Mammograms were digitized at 0.1 mm pixel size and various ROI sizes were extracted from different breast regions in the craniocaudal (CC) view. Seventeen features, which characterize the density and texture of the parenchymal patterns, were extracted from the ROIs on these digitized mammograms. Stepwise feature selection and linear discriminant analysis were applied to identify features that differentiate between the low-risk women and the BRCA1/BRCA2 gene-mutation carriers. ROC analysis was used to assess the performance of the features in the task of distinguishing between these two groups. Our results show that there was a statistically significant decrease in the performance of the computerized texture features, as the ROI location was varied from the central region behind the nipple. However, we failed to show a statistically significant decrease in the performance of the computerized texture features with decreasing ROI size for the range studied.
Outcome prediction for critically ill cirrhotic patients: a comparison of APACHE II and Child-Pugh scoring systems.	Cirrhotic patients admitted to the medical intensive care unit (ICU) are associated with high mortality rates. The prognosis of critically ill cirrhotic patients is determined by the extent of hepatic and extrahepatic organ dysfunction. This study was conducted to assess and compare the accuracy of the Child-Pugh classification and APACHE II scores, obtained on the first day of ICU admission, in predicting hospital mortality in critically ill cirrhotic patients. One hundred thirty-five patients diagnosed with liver cirrhosis were admitted to the medical ICU between January 2002 and March 2003. Information considered necessary to compute the Child-Pugh and APACHE II scores on the first day of ICU admission was prospectively collected. The overall hospital mortality rate was 66.6%. Liver disease was most commonly attributed to hepatitis B viral infection. The APACHE II scores demonstrate a good fit using the Hosmer and Lemeshow goodness-of-fit test. Furthermore, by using the areas under receiver operating characteristic (AUROC) curve, the APACHE II scores demonstrated a better discriminative power (AUROC 0.833 +/- 0.039) than Child-Pugh scores (AUROC 0.75 +/- 0.05) (P=.024). This investigation confirms the grave prognosis for the cirrhotic patients admitted to the ICU. While both Child-Pugh and the APACHE II scores can satisfactorily predict the outcomes for critically ill cirrhotic patients, APACHE II is more powerful in discriminating the survivors from the nonsurvivors.
Non-invasive assessment of hepatic iron stores by MRI.	MRI has been proposed for non-invasive detection and quantification of liver iron content, but has not been validated as a reproducible and sensitive method, especially in patients with mild iron overload. We aimed to assess the accuracy of a simple, rapid, and easy to implement MRI procedure to detect and quantify hepatic iron stores.
Case-finding for depression in elderly people: balancing ease of administration with validity in varied treatment settings.	Little is known about the performance of brief and ultrabrief (1- and 2-question) depression screens in older patients across varied treatment sites. This study (1) assesses their validity in clinics, hospitals, and nursing homes and (2) assesses cut-points for optimal clinical application.
Differential diagnosis of pleural effusions by fuzzy-logic-based analysis of cytokines.	Pleural effusions can be caused by highly different underlying diseases and are characterized by complex interactions of various local and circulating cells as well as numerous soluble parameters like interleukins (IL). Knowledge about this complex network could help to indicate underlying disease. Therefore, we have investigated immunoreactive concentrations of IL-4, IL-6, IL-11, IL-15, IL-17, IL-18, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in pleural effusions and peripheral blood from patients with tuberculosis, bronchial carcinoma and other carcinomas as well as congestive heart failure (CHF) and pneumonias. To determine the value of cytokine measurement for differential diagnosis, statistical and fuzzy-logic methods were applied. Quantitative analysis showed high concentrations of IL-6 and IL-11 only in pleural effusions. IL-15, IL-17, IL-18 and TNF-alpha could be detected also in blood plasma. Lowest amounts were detected in CHF indicating the non-inflammatory origin of effusions. Statistical analysis did not provide evidence for diagnostic relevance of singular cytokines. Fuzzy-logic analysis was able to assign patients to the correct diseases with 80% accuracy using IL-6 and IL-15 measurement. Our results confirm the pathogenetic role of these cytokines in pleural effusions. Fuzzy-logic-based procedures may help to characterize and distinguish effusions of unknown origin even in small patient groups.
PET and SPECT for detection of tumor progression in irradiated low-grade astrocytoma: a receiver-operating-characteristic analysis.	Differentiation between tumor progression and radiation necrosis is one of the most difficult tasks in oncologic neuroradiology. Functional imaging of tumor metabolism can help with this task, but the choice of tracer is still controversial. This prospective study following up irradiated low-grade astrocytoma (LGA) was, to our knowledge, the first receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) analysis that intraindividually evaluated the diagnostic performance of the SPECT tracers 3-[(123)I]iodo-alpha-methyl-L-tyrosine (IMT) and (99m)Tc(I)-hexakis(2-methoxyisobutylisonitrile) (MIBI) and the PET tracer (18)F-FDG.
A comparison of Plateletworks and platelet aggregometry for the assessment of aspirin-related platelet dysfunction in cardiac surgical patients.	To compare the assessment of aspirin-related platelet dysfunction using Plateletworks (Helena Laboratories, Beaumont, TX), a new point-of-care platelet function analyzer, with turbidometric platelet aggregometry, in cardiac surgical patients.
Validation of a brief inventory for diagnosis and monitoring of symptomatic gastro-oesophageal reflux.	This article presents a brief inventory for the diagnosis and monitoring of GORD symptoms.
A diagnostic decision rule for management of children with meningeal signs.	In a previous study we devised a diagnostic decision rule to improve management of children with meningeal signs, suspected of having bacterial meningitis. The decision rule aimed to guide decisions on (1) whether a lumbar puncture is necessary in children with meningeal signs, and (2) which children need hospitalisation and empirical antibiotic treatment for bacterial meningitis. In this study we assessed the validity of this rule in an external population of four (paediatric) hospitals in The Netherlands. The decision rule included two scoring algorithms using symptoms, signs and quickly available blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) laboratory tests. To evaluate the discriminative value of both algorithms, the absolute numbers of correctly diagnosed patients and the area under the receiver operator characteristic curve were estimated, and compared with the results from the original population (n = 360). In a 18 month period, we included 226 children, median age 2.2 years, who visited the emergency department with meningeal signs. Bacterial meningitis was present in 25 (11%). Using the scoring algorithms patients could be categorised in groups of increasing risk of bacterial meningitis. The discriminative values of the clinical and CSF algorithm in this new population were similar to those in the original population. In the total population of 586 children with meningeal signs, the rule selected 205 children (35%) who did not need a lumbar puncture and 366 children who did not need empirical treatment (62%). In conclusion, this diagnostic rule performed well in a new population of children with meningeal signs. This diagnostic decision rule is a valuable tool for the clinician when deciding to treat these children for bacterial meningitis and thus improving their management.
A prospective study of stimulant response in preschool children: insights from ROC analyses.	The purpose of this study was to examine the efficacy of psychostimulant medication in a naturalistic sample of preschoolers. Benefits and side effects for methylphenidate and mixed amphetamine salts (Adderall) were examined.
Renal insufficiency and mortality from acute coronary syndromes.	Although there is accumulating evidence that renal insufficiency is an independent risk factor for mortality after acute myocardial infarction (AMI), it is not known whether renal dysfunction is associated with an increased mortality rate after a broad range of acute coronary syndromes, including unstable angina.
COMFORT scale: a reliable and valid method to measure the amount of stress of ventilated preterm infants.	Assessment of clinimetric properties and diagnostic quality of a stress measurement scale (COMFORT scale).
Evaluating detection and diagnostic decision support systems for bioterrorism response.	We evaluated the usefulness of detection systems and diagnostic decision support systems for bioterrorism response. We performed a systematic review by searching relevant databases (e.g., MEDLINE) and Web sites for reports of detection systems and diagnostic decision support systems that could be used during bioterrorism responses. We reviewed over 24,000 citations and identified 55 detection systems and 23 diagnostic decision support systems. Only 35 systems have been evaluated: 4 reported both sensitivity and specificity, 13 were compared to a reference standard, and 31 were evaluated for their timeliness. Most evaluations of detection systems and some evaluations of diagnostic systems for bioterrorism responses are critically deficient. Because false-positive and false-negative rates are unknown for most systems, decision making on the basis of these systems is seriously compromised. We describe a framework for the design of future evaluations of such systems.
Prediction of risk of death using 30-day outcome: a practical end point for quality auditing in intensive care.	To validate the APACHE (acute physiology and chronic health evaluation) III unadjusted and similar hospital mortality estimate models on 30-day mortality, and to propose a simple approach to modeling local 30-day in-hospital mortality of critically ill hospitalized adults for quality management and risk-adjusted monitoring.
Mortality risk estimation in cardiac surgery]	The aim of this study was to compare the ability of three risk models to predict operative mortality after cardiac surgery.
Stem cell factor and macrophage-colony stimulating factor in patients with pancreatic cancer.	Stem cell factor (SCF) and macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) have assumed an increasing importance in cancer biology. In the present study we investigated the serum levels of these cytokines in pancreatic cancer patients in relation to controls and to patients with benign lesions of the pancreas (chronic pancreatitis group). The classical tumor markers, such as carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA 19-9) were also tested. We compared the serum levels of cytokines with tumor stage. We also defined the receiver-operating characteristics (ROC) curve for cytokines and classical tumor markers. The cytokines were measured in 47 patients with pancreatic cancer, in 27 patients with chronic pancreatitis and in 35 healthy subjects. SCF and M-CSF were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). CEA and CA 19-9 were measured by microparticle enzyme immunoassay. There were significant differences in the levels of circulating SCF, M-CSF, CEA and CA 19-9 in the pancreatic cancer patients compared to the control group, but only the serum levels of M-CSF, CEA and CA 19-9 were significantly higher in pancreatic cancer patients compared to the pancreatitis group. The levels of cytokines and tumor markers were higher in patients with a more advanced tumor stage. The M-CSF serum levels correlated positively with the tested tumor markers. The M-CSF area under the ROC curve was higher than the SCF area. These results suggest that M-CSF is a better candidate for a pancreatic cancer tumor marker than SCF.
Anti-nucleosome, anti-chromatin, anti-dsDNA and anti-histone antibody reactivity in systemic lupus erythematosus.	Anti-nucleosome (anti-chromatin) antibodies play a key role in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The objective of the present study was to determine the clinical significance of anti-nucleosome (anti-chromatin) antibodies, anti-dsDNA antibodies and anti-histone antibodies in patients with SLE in relation to patients with positive nuclear antibodies and healthy controls. We measured anti-nucleosome (anti-chromatin) antibodies, anti-dsDNA antibodies and anti-histone antibodies in 70 patients with SLE, 35 antinuclear antibody (ANA)-positive subjects without autoimmune disease and 35 blood donors. All antibodies were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). We obtained the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and the area under the curve (AUC) for each autoantibody. Likewise, we obtained the sensitivity, specificity and positive and negative likelihood ratios for each autoantibody. The highest AUC was obtained for anti-nucleosome (0.898) and the lowest AUC for a kit for anti-dsDNA (0.725). Stratification of the control group (ANA-positive subjects without autoimmune disease and blood donors) produced significant changes in the AUCs; all AUCs decreased when ANA-positive patients without autoimmune disease were considered as controls and all AUCs increased when blood donors were considered as controls. These effects were less marked in anti-dsDNA antibodies. We observed discrepancies between kits (anti-nucleosome and anti-chromatin and two for anti-dsDNA). The highest sensitivity for SLE was obtained for anti-nucleosome antibodies (86%) and the highest specificity was obtained for anti-dsDNA antibodies (90%). In conclusion, anti-nucleosome and anti-chromatin kits show different degrees of clinical accuracy due to the cut-off selected by the manufacturer. Once the kits with the best performance and the optimal cut-offs have been selected, anti-nucleosome antibodies and anti-dsDNA antibodies provide similar information in established SLE.
Quality of life in ambulatory postmenopausal women: the impact of reduced bone mineral density and subclinical vertebral fractures.	Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis has hitherto been mainly assessed in patients with clinically recognized vertebral fractures. Our study aimed to investigate the QOL perception in 361 asymptomatic ambulant postmenopausal women who came to our center for an osteoporosis screening program planned with their general practitioners. The Quality of Life Questionnaire of the European Foundation for Osteoporosis (QUALEFFO) was administered to all subjects. The participants underwent bone mineral density (BMD) measurements by DXA of either the lumbar spine and/or the femoral neck, as well as X-ray examination of the thoracolumbar spine to identify subclinical vertebral fractures. According to the WHO definition, where subjects are subdivided by BMD values into three groups (women with normal BMD, osteopenia, and osteoporosis), a significant difference was found only for the domains which explore general health perception (p<0.01 by ANOVA) and mental function (p<0.001 by ANOVA). When we segregated both osteopenic and osteoporotic women according to whether or not they had vertebral fractures, a significant difference was found only in osteoporotic patients for domains which explore physical function (p<0.001), social function (p<0.001), general health perception (p<0.02), and total QUALEFFO score (p<0.01). Stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis of the whole sample showed that both vertebral fractures and a low femoral BMD impairs QOL perception, while age did not exert a significant influence. ROC curves analysis demonstrated a low discriminating capacity of individual domains and total QUALEFFO score for both vertebral deformities and BMD categorization. Our results showed that QUALEFFO is not able to discriminate between patients with or without subclinical vertebral fractures. However, some aspects of QOL appear to be impaired in patients with subclinical vertebral fractures or reduced BMD.
ROC curves in clinical chemistry: uses, misuses, and possible solutions.	ROC curves have become the standard for describing and comparing the accuracy of diagnostic tests. Not surprisingly, ROC curves are used often by clinical chemists. Our aims were to observe how the accuracy of clinical laboratory diagnostic tests is assessed, compared, and reported in the literature; to identify common problems with the use of ROC curves; and to offer some possible solutions.
Prostate cancer: detection of extracapsular extension by genitourinary and general body radiologists at MR imaging.	To determine whether predictive value of endorectal magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings in detection of prostate cancer extracapsular extension (ECE) is significantly affected by the reader's subspecialty experience.
Prostate cancer: incremental value of endorectal MR imaging findings for prediction of extracapsular extension.	To assess the incremental value of endorectal magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings in addition to clinical variables for prediction of extracapsular extension (ECE) in patients with prostate cancer.
Plasma brain natriuretic peptide to detect preclinical ventricular systolic or diastolic dysfunction: a community-based study.	Preclinical systolic or diastolic dysfunction is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. We postulated that plasma brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) might serve as a biomarker for preclinical ventricular dysfunction (PCVD) but that the discriminatory values for BNP may vary with age and sex.
N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide on admission has prognostic value across the whole spectrum of acute coronary syndromes.	The prognostic value of natriuretic peptide elevations in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) is still incompletely defined. We measured N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) on admission in patients with ACS and ECG evidence of myocardial ischemia.
Lowering the criterion for impaired fasting glucose: impact on disease prevalence and associated risk of diabetes and ischemic heart disease.	To determine the effect of lowering the fasting plasma glucose (FPG) criterion for impaired fasting glucose (IFG) on the prevalence of IFG, the risks of diabetes, and cardiovascular disease (CVD) associated with IFG.
High-performance peptide identification by tandem mass spectrometry allows reliable automatic data processing in proteomics.	In a previous paper we introduced a novel model-based approach (OLAV) to the problem of identifying peptides via tandem mass spectrometry, for which early implementations showed promising performance. We recently further improved this performance to a remarkable level (1-2% false positive rate at 95% true positive rate) and characterized key properties of OLAV like robustness and training set size. We present these results in a synthetic and coherent way along with detailed performance comparisons, a new scoring component making use of peptide amino acidic composition, and new developments like automatic parameter learning. Finally, we discuss the impact of OLAV on the automation of proteomics projects.
Effects of neonatal C-fiber depletion on discrimination of principal and adjacent whisker stimulation within rat individual cortical barrels.	Controlled mechanical displacement was used to stimulate single whiskers in normal and C-fiber depleted rats to quantitatively examine the role of C-fibers in the response properties of barrel cortical cells. C-fiber depletion using neonatal capsaicin treatment increased the barrel single-unit response magnitude to deflection of both principal and adjacent whiskers while there was not any significant difference in the barrel cells' spontaneous activity. Capsaicin treatment increased the neural response duration of adjacent whisker stimulation but did not change that to the principal whisker deflection. There was no difference in response latencies of principal or adjacent whisker displacement between the normal and C-fiber-depleted groups. The efficiency of neural code for differentiation of principal and adjacent whiskers was measured by ROC analysis, which reflects the performance of an ideal observer in this discrimination using cells' firing rate. No significant difference was found in the performance of neurons in capsaicin-treated and control groups in distinguishing principal and adjacent whisker deflections from each other. These results suggest that neonatal C-fiber depletion causes an expansion of barrel cells receptive field but it does not affect the discrimination of individual whisker stimulation by the barrel cells.
Angiogenic cytokines in patients with idiopathic interstitial pneumonia.	Angiogenesis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of idiopathic interstitial pneumonia (IIP). The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between plasma concentrations of the angiogenic cytokines interleukin 8 (IL-8), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and endothelin-1 (ET-1) and clinical parameters of disease progression over a 6 month period to identify potential aetiological mediators and prognostic markers of disease activity in patients with IIP.
A new approach of assessing sagittal discrepancies: the Beta angle.	An accurate anteroposterior measurement of jaw relationships is critically important in orthodontic diagnosis and treatment planning. The angular and linear measurements that have been proposed can be inaccurate because they depend on various factors. The purpose of this study was to establish a new cephalometric measurement, named the Beta angle, to assess the sagittal jaw relationship with accuracy and reproducibility. This angle uses 3 skeletal landmarks-point A, point B, and the apparent axis of the condyle-to measure an angle that indicates the severity and the type of skeletal dysplasia in the sagittal dimension. Seventy-six pretreatment cephalometric radiographs of white patients were selected on the basis of 4 criteria that indicate a normal Class I skeletal pattern; the mean and the SD for the Beta angle were calculated. This group was compared with Class II and Class III skeletal pattern groups. After using the 1-way analysis of variance and the Newman-Keuls test and running receiver-operating-characteristics curves, we obtained results that showed that a patient with a Beta angle between 27 degrees and 35 degrees can be considered to have a Class I skeletal pattern. A more acute Beta angle indicates a Class II skeletal pattern, and a more obtuse Beta angle indicates a Class III skeletal pattern.
The deep-breath test as a diagnostic maneuver for white-coat effect in hypertensive patients.	The white-coat effect is a common phenomenon in hypertensive patients, and there is no current useful office test to detect it.
Delta creatine kinase-MB outperforms myoglobin at two hours during the emergency department identification and exclusion of troponin positive non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes.	Limited information is available about the diagnostic performance of creatine kinase (CK)-MB and myoglobin levels during the early evaluation of chest pain patients using cardiac troponins as the criterion standard for diagnosing acute myocardial infarction. In this study, we compare the sensitivity and specificity of the baseline, 2-hour absolute, and 2-hour delta values of myoglobin and CK-MB mass assay for detection of acute myocardial infarction using cardiac troponin I (troponin) as the sole marker of myocardial necrosis.
Receiver operating characteristic analysis of body mass index to detect increased risk of functional morbidity in Vietnamese rural adults.	To assess the performance of low BMI, and define optimal BMI cut-off values in order to detect fever-associated adult morbidity.
Qureshi grading scheme for angiographic occlusions strongly correlates with the initial severity and in-hospital outcome of acute ischemic stroke.	The thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) grading scheme and other classification systems have limitations in evaluating patients with ischemic stroke because they do not account for occlusion location or collateral circulation. The Qureshi grading scheme has been recently proposed to evaluate the severity of arterial occlusion in acute ischemic stroke because of limitations in existing grading systems.
Unstable cerebral hemodynamics in carotid artery occlusion and large hemispheric stroke: a cerebral blood flow volume study.	In chronic internal carotid artery (ICA) occlusion, cerebral hemodynamics are likely to be stable due to collateral flow. The authors evaluated cerebral hemodynamics in ICA occlusion using the sonographic method of cerebral blood flow volume (CBVF) measurement to find differences that might identify patients with large hemispheric stroke in ICA occlusion.
The Marijuana Screening Inventory (MSI-X): reliability, factor structure, and scoring criteria with a clinical sample.	This study continues the psychometric evaluation of a 31-item Marijuana Screening Inventory (MSI-X) with adults referred to a substance abuse clinic, by determining MSI-X reliability, factor structure, scoring cutoff accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity with a DSM-IV-TR criterion measure.
Clinical assessment of pediatric obstructive sleep apnea.	To determine whether children with a clinical assessment suggestive of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) but with negative polysomnography (PSG) have improvement in their clinical assessment score after tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy (T&A) as compared with similar children who do not undergo surgery.
Admission predictor modeling in pediatric interhospital transport.	The objective of this investigation was to determine if an existing general severity of illness measure describing pediatric emergency patients, calculated at referring hospitals, predicts the need for hospital admission and intensive care unit (ICU) admission at receiving hospitals.
QTc dispersion is prolonged in patients with early postoperative adverse cardiovascular events and those with silent myocardial ischemia.	To determine if increased QT interval dispersion (corrected and not corrected for heart rate) is associated with perioperative silent myocardial ischemia or postoperative adverse cardiovascular events.
Can the outcome of older donor kidneys in transplantation be predicted? An analysis of existing scoring systems.	The use of older cadaveric donors in kidney transplantation is increasing. The transplant outcome of the single older kidney is generally inferior prompting some to recommend dual kidney transplantation. The ability to predict the outcome of the solitary marginal kidney becomes clinically important. Such insight might allow for better allocation strategies that would minimize poorer outcomes while permitting optimal rationalization of this scarce resource. A retrospective, single center review of 79 single kidney transplants from 50 donors aged > or =55 yr was performed. We tested the validity of published scoring strategies to predict subsequent recipient kidney function. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was used to quantify the donor strategies separating good and poor outcomes based upon recipient creatinine clearance (CrCl) <30 mL/min. Two pre-transplant donor assessment strategies, Nyberg score and donor CrCl (dCrCl) were found to predict subsequent kidney function in recipients. When Nyberg variables (cold ischemia time, donor diabetes and hypertension status, incremental donor age >55 yr and cause of death) in conjunction with the dCrCl were considered, they were no better than dCrCl alone. Although dCrCl had a reasonable negative predictive ability, the positive predictive value was <50%. Our analysis suggests that a dCrCl of > or =70 mL/min is a better discriminator of subsequent kidney function outcomes than a dCrCl of 90 mL/min as recommended by the Dual Transplant Registry.
Plasma fibronectin as a marker of sepsis.	To evaluate the value of plasma fibronectin (pFN) as a diagnostic marker of sepsis.
Center specific duplex Doppler threshold values in carotid artery stenosis]	The traditional categorizations of color Doppler ultrasonography (CDUS) used for grading internal carotid artery stenosis are not consistent with the multicenter controlled randomized studies of carotid artery endarterectomy. The purpose of this study was to determine duplex Doppler threshold values specific to our center for classification of critical internal carotid artery stenosis which is determined according to the results obtained from multi-center clinical studies.
Advantages to transforming the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve into likelihood ratio co-ordinates.	Traditionally, the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve for a diagnostic test plots true positives (sensitivity) against false positives (one minus specificity). However, this representation brings with it several drawbacks. A transformation to positive and negative likelihood ratio co-ordinates, scaled by base-ten logarithms, offers several advantages. First we motivate the use of positive and negative likelihood ratios, emphasizing their relationship to modification of the odds ratio. Then we highlight properties of likelihood ratios using the traditional ROC axes. Finally, we demonstrate ROC curves and their properties after conversion to likelihood ratio co-ordinates. These graphs do not waste space for tests lacking diagnostic power, and offer a simple visual assessment of a test's impact on the odds ratio.
Prediction of an ongoing pregnancy after intrauterine insemination.	To develop a prognostic model for the outcome of IUI.
Evaluation of the display quality of different modalities in digital radiology]	To evaluate the display quality of digital radiographies on different monitors in comparison to hard-copy films on view boxes.
SOFA score predicts postoperative outcome of patients with colorectal perforation.	Colorectal perforation remains a life-threatening condition associated with high mortality. Various factors and operative procedures have been discussed in regard to prediction of outcome, and several scoring systems have been proposed to predict the outcome of critically ill patients. The present study was undertaken to identify factors and determine predictive scoring systems for the postoperative outcome of patients with colorectal perforation.
Usefulness of reversed display of soft-copy abdominal radiographs for urinary calculi detection.	To determine the usefulness of reversed display of soft-copy abdominal radiographs for urinary calculi detection.
Can serum mast cell tryptase help diagnose anaphylaxis?	We aimed to determine the utility of serum mast cell tryptase to diagnose anaphylaxis.
Usefulness of homeostasis model assessment for identifying subjects at risk for hypoglycemia failure during the insulin hypoglycemia test.	One of the main problems of the insulin hypoglycemia test (IHT) is the failure to achieve an adequate hypoglycemia (blood glucose, <45 mg/dl) with the standard dose of insulin used. The aim of the study was to identify by means of homeostasis model assessment (HOMA) the subjects at risk for hypoglycemia failure during IHT. For this purpose 32 patients in whom an IHT was performed were prospectively included. Receiver operating characteristics curve analyses were performed to assess the sensitivity and specificity of both insulinemia and HOMA. Eight patients (25%) did not reach adequate hypoglycemia. A serum insulin concentration above 17.7 microIU/ml or a HOMA value above 4.38 identified those subjects who would not reach adequate hypoglycemia with a probability of 75%. By contrast, when the levels of either insulinemia or HOMA were lower than the cut-off points mentioned above, the probability that individuals would reach sufficient hypoglycemia was 89.5%. In conclusion, quantitative estimate of insulin resistance by HOMA is a simple and reliable method that permits identification of individuals at risk of not reaching adequate hypoglycemia during IHT. In these patients, either alternative tests or a higher dose of insulin should be considered.
The LRINEC (Laboratory Risk Indicator for Necrotizing Fasciitis) score: a tool for distinguishing necrotizing fasciitis from other soft tissue infections.	Early operative debridement is a major determinant of outcome in necrotizing fasciitis. However, early recognition is difficult clinically. We aimed to develop a novel diagnostic scoring system for distinguishing necrotizing fasciitis from other soft tissue infections based on laboratory tests routinely performed for the evaluation of severe soft tissue infections: the Laboratory Risk Indicator for Necrotizing Fasciitis (LRINEC) score.
Evaluation of protein C and other biomarkers as predictors of mortality in a rat cecal ligation and puncture model of sepsis.	To evaluate protein C and other factors associated with the septic response as predictors of mortality in a clinically relevant animal model of sepsis.
Diagnosis effectiveness of albumin in ascitic fluid]	Albumin in ascitic fluid has been evaluated as a discriminative diagnosis test, based on an observation and retrospective study, comparing it to that of total ascitis protein and albumin gradient, which are the most clinically used tests nowadays. The study involved a total of 45 patients, predominantly women, averaging 54 years of age, who were diagnosed through laparoscopy in a public hospital. The evaluation included: 19 patients suffering transudate type ascitis (chronic liver disease, n = 18), 23 patients with exudates type ascitis (peritoneal carcinomatosis, n = 12, tuberculous peritonitis, n = 11), and patients with mixedascitis. Sensibility, specificity and predictive values were obtained from the analysis of the tests, and they were represented through the distribution of averages and ROC curves, showing every time that these tests can be used in clinical practice because they have comparable sensibility and specificity values. As a new discriminative test of transudates and exudates the albumin test in ascitis proved to have a sensibility comparable to that of the protein in ascitic fluid but discreetly lower to that of albumin gradient. However, the ascitis albumin showed a better relation between the sensibility and specificity in the area under the ROC curves. Based on this study, the usefulness of the concentration of albumin in ascitic fluid is highlighted as a new test to discriminate exudates from transudates, which has been reported by very few authors in writing. In addition, this study shows that the albumin gradient can also be applied in the discrimination of exudates and transudates with efficacy comparable to its use in the discrimination of ascitis with or without portal hypertension.
Use of acute phase proteins in pleural effusion discrimination.	The differentiation between exudates and transudates is fundamental when investigating the cause of pleural effusions. Acute-phase proteins could be potentially useful markers in this discrimination. In the attempt to define diagnostic criteria for the differentiation of pleural exudates from transudates, we measured alpha 1 acid glycoprotein, C-reactive protein, haptoglobin, ceruloplasmin and transferrin in pleural effusions and serum in patients with pleural effusions of various etiologoies. We measured the concentrations of the above proteins in the serum and pleural fluid of 80 (54 exudate, 26 transudate) consecutive patients by immunoturbidometrical methods. Pleural effusion acute phase proteins were elevated in the patients with exudate compared to patients with transudate (p< 0.001 for all). In receiver operator characteristic analysis showed that pleural fluid ceruloplasmin levels and the ratio pleural fluid/serum transferrin were superior to the others. Using the optimum cut-off point of 0.16 g/L pleural fluid ceruloplasmin achieves a sensitivity of 92% with a specificity of 85%. In addition to, the optimum cut-off point for pleural fluid/serum transferrin ratio was 0.4 with sensitivity and specificity of 92% and 80%. When using together these parameters sensitivity and specificity were increased (95%, 85%). In differential diagnosis, none of these proteins were significantly different in subgroups of pleural exudate. We conclude that when using together ceruloplasmin levels in pleural fluid and the ratio of pleural to serum transferrin have a high sensitivity and specificity in discrimination of exudative pleural effusions.
A new approach to the quantitative measurement of dense LDL subfractions.	Small dense low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) should be considered a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease, but there is still no recommended method for measuring them or expressing clinical values. We measured the dense LDL portion relatively simply by isolating it using density ultracentrifugation and then giving it a relative, quantitative value.
Carbohydrate-deficient transferrin: validity of a new alcohol biomarker in a sample of patients with diabetes and hypertension.	To test the reliability and validity of a new alcohol biomarker.
Performance evaluation of APACHE II score for an Indian patient with respiratory problems.	Realising the utility of scoring systems in mortality prediction of critically ill patients admitted to intensive care units (ICUs), studies worldwide have expressed a need to validate the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) II score for databases of respective countries. Literature available in this area in the Indian context is scanty. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the performance of APACHE II score in prediction of mortality risk, as well as in determination of model validity in critically ill Indian patients with respiratory problems.
Affective distress and fibromyalgia.	Elevated rates of lifetime and current psychiatric disorders, elevations of psychological self-report measures assessing depression, anxiety and hypochondriasis have been reported in fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) patients as well as studies refuting these findings. Studies comparing FMS patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients provide discrepant data. The aim of this paper is to compare FMS patients with RA patients and healthy controls with respect to psychological measures in a case control design.
Temporal analysis of the depolarization wave of healed myocardial infarction in body surface potential mapping.	We studied the ability of different time segments of the depolarization wave recorded with body surface potential mapping (BSPM) to detect and localize myocardial infarction (MI).
Genetic programming outperformed multivariable logistic regression in diagnosing pulmonary embolism.	Genetic programming is a search method that can be used to solve complex associations between large numbers of variables. It has been used, for example, for myoelectrical signal recognition, but its value for medical prediction as in diagnostic and prognostic settings, has not been documented.
Serum cortisol as a predictive marker of the outcome in patients resuscitated after cardiopulmonary arrest.	To analyze the relationship between stress hormones (arginine vasopressin (ADH), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol and the outcome of patients resuscitated after cardiopulmonary arrest (CPA).
Lack of usefulness of electron beam computed tomography for detecting coronary allograft vasculopathy.	Fifty-five patients with cardiac allografts were studied by electron beam computed tomography for coronary calcification (EBCT CC) and coronary arteriography, and from the latter, a coronary index was calculated using the size, degree of obstruction, and linear extent of disease of each vessel. There was a significant correlation between EBCT CC score and coronary index, but receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) analysis demonstrated unsatisfactory performance of EBCT CC, and 6 patients had no coronary calcification despite having very abnormal coronary indexes. There are pathologic differences between coronary allograft vasculopathy and atherosclerosis, and correspondingly, EBCT CC has limited usefulness in the cardiac transplant population.
Intravesical potassium chloride sensitivity test in men with chronic pelvic pain syndrome.	Intravesical potassium chloride has been reported to cause pain in patients with interstitial cystitis and male chronic prostatitis (CP)/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CPPS). We performed the potassium chloride sensitivity test (PST) in subjects with CP/CPPS and healthy men without pelvic pain.
A practical concept for preoperative identification of patients with impaired primary hemostasis.	The findings of a large prospective study designed to identify primary and/or secondary hemostatic disorders before surgical interventions are presented. A total of 5649 unselected adult patients were enrolled to identify impaired hemostasis before surgical interventions. Each patient was asked to answer a standardized questionnaire concerning bleeding history. Activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), prothrombin time (PT), and platelet counts (PC) including PFA-100 (platelet function analyzer): collagen-epinephrine (C/E), and collagen-ADP (C/ADP) were routinely done in all patients. Additional tests, bleeding time (BT), and von Willebrand factor (vWF: Ag) were performed only in patients with a positive bleeding history and/or evidence of impaired hemostasis; e.g., drug ingestion. The bleeding history was negative in 5021 patients (88.8%) but positive in the remaining 628 (11.2%). Impaired hemostasis could be verified only in 256 (40.8%) of these patients. The vast majority were identified with PFA-100: C/E (n=250; 97.7%). The other six patients with impaired hemostasis were identifiable solely based on the PT (n=2), PFA-100: C/ADP (n=2), and vWF: Ag (n=2). The PFA-100: C/ADP detected 199 patients (77.7%). The only abnormality found among patients with a negative bleeding history was a prolonged aPTT due to lupus anticoagulant in nine patients (0.2%). The sensitivity of the PFA-100: collagen-epinephrine was the highest (90.8%) in comparison to the other screening tests (BT, aPTT, PT, vWF: Ag). The positive predictive value of the PFA-100: collagen-epinephrine was high (81.8%), but the negative predictive value was higher (93.4%). The use of a standardized questionnaire and, if indicated, the PFA-100: C/E and/or other specific tests not only ensure the detection of impaired hemostasis in almost every case but also a significant reduction of the cost.
A probabilistic model for predicting hypoglycemia in type 2 diabetes mellitus: The Diabetes Outcomes in Veterans Study (DOVES).	To develop and validate a method for estimating hypoglycemia risk in stable, insulin-treated subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
High lipoprotein (a), diabetes, and the extent of symptomatic intracranial atherosclerosis.	Lipoprotein (a) (Lp[a]) has important atherothrombogenic properties, but its role in intracranial atherosclerosis remains unclear.
Ideal observers and optimal ROC hypersurfaces in N-class classification.	The likelihood ratio, or ideal observer, decision rule is known to be optimal for two-class classification tasks in the sense that it maximizes expected utility (or, equivalently, minimizes the Bayes risk). Furthermore, using this decision rule yields a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve which is never above the ROC curve produced using any other decision rule, provided the observer's misclassification rate with respect to one of the two classes is chosen as the dependent variable for the curve (i.e., an "inversion" of the more common formulation in which the observer's true-positive fraction is plotted against its false-positive fraction). It is also known that for a decision task requiring classification of observations into N classes, optimal performance in the expected utility sense is obtained using a set of N-1 likelihood ratios as decision variables. In the N-class extension of ROC analysis, the ideal observer performance is describable in terms of an (N2-N-1)-parameter hypersurface in an (N2-N)-dimensional probability space. We show that the result for two classes holds in this case as well, namely that the ROC hypersurface obtained using the ideal observer decision rule is never above the ROC hypersurface obtained using any other decision rule (where in our formulation performance is given exclusively with respect to between-class error rates rather than within-class sensitivities).
Sum-difference theory of remembering and knowing: a two-dimensional signal-detection model.	In the remember-know paradigm for studying recognition memory, participants distinguish items whose presentations are episodically remembered from those that are merely familiar. A one-dimensional model postulates that remember responses are just high-confidence old judgments, but a meta-analysis of 373 experiments shows that the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves predicted by this model have the wrong slope. According to the new sum-difference Theory of remembering and knowing (STREAK), old items differ from new ones in both global and specific memory strength: The old-new judgment is based on a weighted sum of these dimensions, and the remember- know judgment is based on a weighted difference. STREAK accounts for the form of several novel kinds of ROC curves and for existing remember-know and item-recognition data.
First clinical evaluation of sagittal laser optical tomography for detection of synovitis in arthritic finger joints.	To identify classifiers in images obtained with sagittal laser optical tomography (SLOT) that can be used to distinguish between joints affected and not affected by synovitis.
Bone mineral density-independent association of quantitative ultrasound measurements and fracture risk in women.	Osteoporotic fracture is considered to result from reduced bone strength and to be related to decreased bone mass and impaired bone architecture. Quantitative ultrasound measurements (QUS) of bone, that may reflect certain architectural aspects of bone, have been shown to be associated with fracture, but it is not clear whether the association is independent of bone mineral density (BMD). This study was designed to examine the contributions of cortical QUS and BMD measurements to the prediction of fracture risk in postmenopausal Caucasian women. Speed of sound (SOS) at the distal radius, tibia, and phalanx (Sunlight Omnisense) and BMD at the lumbar spine and femoral neck (GE Lunar) were measured in 549 women, aged 63.2 +/- 12.3 years (mean +/- SD; range, 49-88 years), including 77 fracture cases. Lower SOS at the distal radius, tibia, and phalanx, which were correlated with each other, were associated with increased risk of fracture. Independent predictors of fracture risk (in multivariate analysis) were distal radius SOS (OR per SD = 1.8; 95% CI, 1.3-2.4), femoral neck BMD (OR per SD = 1.9; 95% CI, 1.4-2.4), and age (OR per 5 years = 1.2; 95% CI, 1.0-1.5). Approximately 30% of the women had distal radius SOS T-scores <-2.5; however, only 6.6% of women had both BMD and SOS T-scores <-2.5. Among the 77 fracture cases, only 14 (18.2%) had both BMD and QUS T-scores below -2.5. These data in postmenopausal women suggest that speed of sound at the distal radius was associated with fracture risk, independent of BMD and age. The combination of QUS and BMD measurements may improve the accuracy of identification of women who will sustain a fracture.
2D SPLASH: a new method to determine the fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff muscles.	The objective of this paper is to quantify the fatty degeneration (infiltration) of rotator cuff muscles with a new spectroscopic FLASH (SPLASH) sequence. Before planned surgery (reconstruction or muscle transfer), 20 patients (13 men, 7 women; 35-75 years) with different stages of rotator cuff disease underwent an MR examination in a 1.5-T unit. The protocol consists of imaging sequences and a newly implemented SPLASH, which allows an exact quantification of the fat/water ratio with a high spatial resolution in an arbitrarily shaped region of interest (ROI). The percentages of fat in the rotator cuff muscles were determined. To determine statistically significant differences between the different stages of rotator cuff tear, a Kruskal-Wallis H test was used. Fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus muscle was correlated with cross-sectional area (CSA) measures (Bravais-Pearson). We found significant differences between different stages of rotator cuff disease, the fatty infiltration and the volume loss (determined by the occupation ratio) of the supraspinatus muscle. With the increasing extent of rotator cuff disease, fatty infiltration increases significantly, as does the volume loss of the supraspinatus muscle. Comparing fatty infiltration and the occupation ratio individually, there was only a moderate inverse correlation between fatty infiltration and the occupation ratio, with considerable variation of data. Fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle occurred when the infraspinatus tendon was involved to a lesser extent. The SPLASH sequence allows exact quantification of fatty infiltration in an arbitrarily shaped ROI. The extent of atrophy and fatty infiltration correlates with the size of the tear. Atrophy and fatty infiltration correlate only moderately and should be evaluated separately.
Diagnosis of lumbar spinal stenosis in adults: a metaanalysis of the accuracy of CT, MR, and myelography.	We undertook a literature synthesis of CT, MR, and myelographic studies to evaluate what is known about the diagnostic accuracy of these imaging tests for the diagnosis of lumbar spinal stenosis in adults without prior surgery. From 116 possibly relevant studies, we reviewed 14 articles that included cases of spinal stenosis with a reference standard other than the imaging tests of interest. Of the studies we reviewed, two involved only MR, nine only CT, and three used both; six studies included myelography. Rating categories of A, B, C, or D were assigned for the quality of research methods used to estimate diagnostic accuracy. All studies received either a C or D rating. Common methodologic problems were failure to assemble a representative cohort for study, small sample size, and failure to maintain independence between image readings and reference standards. Sensitivity ranged from 0.81 to 0.97 for MR, from 0.70 to 1.0 for CT, and from 0.67 to 0.78 myelography. Studies varied greatly in case selection, definition of test and disease categories, and geographic locale, so no pooled estimates could be derived. In asymptomatic patients, abnormal findings appeared on CT or MR in 4-28% of cases and were more common in the elderly. Published studies of the value of CT and MR for the diagnosis of lumbar stenosis lack methodologic rigor and do not permit strong conclusions about the relative diagnostic accuracies of these procedures. For the present, the choice between MR or CT depends on issues such as costs, reimbursements, access to equipment, skill of radiologists, and patient safety. Better studies will be needed to document claims for improvements in imaging accuracy as MR technologies evolve. These studies should emphasize larger sample sizes, more attention to research designs that avoid methodologic biases, and the contribution of imaging diagnoses to ultimate clinical outcome.
Blinded evaluation of planar technetium-99m-sestamibi myocardial perfusion studies.	Sestamibi planar myocardial perfusion studies were performed at Hotel-Dieu de Montreal on 28 patients with documented coronary artery disease and 16 normal subjects. Stress and rest studies were performed on separate days. These studies were sent to Virginia for interpretation while blinded as to age, sex, and other clinical information. Studies were quantitated independently by two operators (using a computer program modified for Sestamibi), and interpreted independently by two experienced interpreters. Computer quantitation of 2816 segments gave an average interoperator deviation of 2.2%. Pure quantitative criteria were applied for computer interpretation. By varying the detection threshold, we produced the entire ROC curve relating sensitivity and specificity as a function of detection threshold. Using only computer criteria for normal or abnormal, interoperator agreement by patient was 98% and 93% by view. The computer could achieve equal positive and negative predictive accuracy of 87%. Interpreters, allowed both quantitative and subjective judgment, agreed on 91% of 44 patients, 90% of 132 views, and 92% of 660 segments. Interpreters averaged 94% positive and 86% negative predictive accuracy.
The predictive value of ventricular function during exercise after a myocardial infarct]	To assess the prognostic value of exercise left ventricular function, and if this test improves the prognostic value of clinical data and exercise test, 146 patients (mean age 56 +/- 9 years) underwent rest and exercise radionuclide angiography, 10 days after myocardial infarction. During follow-up (mean 16 +/- 5 months), 32 patients had new coronary events: 5 died, 9 had a new myocardial infarction and the remaining 18 developed unstable angina (Class III-IV of the CCS classification). Patients with new coronary events had more frequently severe left ventricular failure (Killip III-IV) (15% vs 3%; p less than 0.05) and postinfarction angina (32% vs 9%; p less than 0.01) than their counterparts. There were no differences regarding rest ejection fraction between both groups of patients. Exercise ejection fraction increased significantly (50 +/- 14% to 56 +/- 16%, p less than 0.001), while there was no change in patients with new coronary events (46 +/- 16% to 43 +/- 15%, NS). Logistic regression analysis including only clinical data identified postinfarction angina (p less than 0.01) and left ventricular failure (Killip III-IV) (p less than 0.01) as independent predictors of new coronary events. The sensitivity and specificity of the regression equation obtained with clinical data were 43% and 90%, respectively. Analyzing data from clinical variables, as well as exercise test and both, rest and exercise radionuclide angiography, logistic regression analysis identified, exercise ejection fraction (p less than 0.001), postinfarction angina (p less than 0.01) and rest ejection fraction (p less than 0.05) as independent predictors of new coronary events.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Is there a definition of remission in late-life depression that predicts later relapse?	Remission of depressive symptoms is the goal of all antidepressant therapy. Rating scales define remission in clinical trials, but it is unclear how well these definitions predict risk of later relapse. We measured the sensitivity and specificity of a range of Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) cutoff scores at 3- and 6-months, wherein scores above a given cutoff would predict relapse over an 18-month period. We examined 153 elderly depressed subjects exhibiting a MADRS < or = 15 after 3 or 6 months of antidepressant therapy. Subjects who subsequently exhibited a MADRS > 15 during the 18-month study period were defined as relapsed. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were developed and area under the curve (AUC) values calculated for the sensitivity and specificity of 3- and 6-month MADRS scores to predict future relapse. The 3-month ROC had an AUC value of 0.63; the 6-month ROC had an AUC value of 0.66. There was no MADRS cutoff found that could predict likelihood of relapse with good sensitivity and specificity. A post hoc analysis where relapse rate was adjusted by controlling for medical comorbidity, disability, and social support showed no change in the ROCs or AUC values. The higher the MADRS score at 3 and 6 months, the greater the likelihood of relapse. With no clean MADRS cutoff score, the goal of antidepressant therapy should be the lowest possible degree of depressive symptomatology to minimize risk of later relapse. Definitions of remission that are better associated with longer-term outcomes are needed.
Multi-biomarker risk stratification of N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, and cardiac troponin T and I in end-stage renal disease for all-cause death.	In patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), the ability of single and multiple biomarker monitoring to predict adverse outcomes has not been well established. This study determined the prognostic value of multiple biomarkers for all-cause death over 2 years in 399 ESRD patients.
Ability of PSA-positive circulating macrophages to detect prostate cancer.	Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is a widely used serum marker for prostate cancer, but has a poor specificity for early detection at levels below 10 ng/ml, because it can also result from benign conditions. Our aim was to determine the frequencies of circulating PSA+ macrophages in a blinded study and to examine the suitability of this new method for differentiating between benign and malignant prostate disease.
The use of aldosterone-renin ratio as a diagnostic test for primary hyperaldosteronism and its test characteristics under different conditions of blood sampling.	Recent reviews recommended the use of the aldosterone/renin ratio (ARR) to screen for primary hyperaldosteronism. However, widely different cutoff levels have been proposed, and test characteristics of ARR under different conditions of sampling are not known. We conducted a retrospective review among 45 subjects with carefully validated diagnoses of primary hyperaldosteronism and 17 subjects with essential hypertension to study the utility of ARR. Sixty-two patients with 75 sets of plasma renin activity (PRA), aldosterone, and ARR values from a postural study and 48 sets of values from a saline suppression test were analyzed. Ninety-four percent of these subjects underwent investigations because of hypokalemic hypertension.ARR yielded larger areas under the curve in the receiver-operating-characteristics curve than PRA or aldosterone under all conditions of testing. Our results confirmed the superiority of ARR to either aldosterone or PRA alone as a diagnostic test for primary hyperaldosteronism.ARR cutoff levels were significantly affected by the condition of testing. Depending on posture and time of day, it varied from 13.1-35.0 ng/dl per ng/ml.h in our study population. When using ARR for screening primary hyperaldosteronism, posture and time of sampling should be standardized both within and between centers to minimize variability in cutoff levels.
Soft-tissue lipomas: accuracy of sonography in diagnosis with pathologic correlation.	To retrospectively determine the accuracy of sonography in helping to distinguish soft-tissue lipomas from other soft-tissue masses by using histologic proof as the reference standard.
Detection of lung cancer on radiographs: receiver operating characteristic analyses of radiologists', pulmonologists', and anesthesiologists' performance.	To compare and quantify, by means of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) and localization ROC analyses, the performance of radiologists, pulmonologists, and anesthesiologists (residents and staff) in the detection of missed lung cancer.
Clinical usefulness of home oximetry compared with polysomnography for assessment of sleep apnea.	The practical purpose of diagnostic assessment in most cases of obstructive sleep apnea is to predict which patients have symptoms that will improve on treatment. We measured the accuracy with which clinicians make this prediction using polysomnography compared with oximeter-based home monitoring. Patients referred to a sleep center with suspicion of symptomatic obstructive sleep apnea were randomized to have polysomnography or home monitoring. Patients with comorbidity or physiologic consequences of sleep apnea were excluded. Sleep specialists estimated the likelihood of success of treatment as greater than 50% (predicted success) or less than 50% (predicted failure) on the basis of clinical data and test results. All patients were treated for 4 weeks with autoadjusting continuous positive airway pressure. Success was defined as an increase greater than 1.0 in Sleep Apnea Quality of Life Index. Correct prediction rates were compared. Two hundred eighty-eight patients were enrolled. Initial patient characteristics, compliance, and improvement in quality of life at 4 weeks were not different in the two groups. The correct prediction rate was 0.61 with polysomnography and 0.64 with home monitoring (not significant). We conclude that the ability of physicians to predict the outcome of continuous positive airway treatment in individual patients is not significantly better with polysomnography than with home oximeter-based monitoring.
The assessment of depression inventory (ADI): a new instrument used to measure depression and to detect honesty of response.	We examined the psychometric properties of the Assessment of Depression Inventory (ADI). This instrument assesses depression and also has validity scales that address response honesty. Three studies were conducted. The first describes the development of the ADI. The second compared the concurrent validity of the ADI Depression (Dep) scale with the BDI-II, and the ADI Feigning (Fg) scale responses of psychiatric inpatients with those of a sample of community volunteers asked to feign depression. The third study was used to cross-validate the results with a separate sample of participants. The ADI Dep scale correlated highly with the BDI-II. Significant differences were also found between the honest patient responders and the non-patient feigners on the Fg scale. The data supports the ADI validity scales as measures of response style and the Dep scale as a measure of depression.
Association between elevated liver enzymes and C-reactive protein: possible hepatic contribution to systemic inflammation in the metabolic syndrome.	The objective of this study was to test whether the frequent association between liver enzyme elevations and various components of the metabolic syndrome is associated with higher C-reactive protein (CRP) levels.
Latex immunoturbidimetric assay for soluble fibrin complex.	Soluble fibrin complex (SFC), composed of fibrin monomer and fibrinogen derivatives, is known to exist in the circulating blood in patients with thrombosis. Its detection and quantification are useful for obtaining information about the condition and degree of intravascular coagulation in early-stage thrombosis, but there is no rapid method to measure SFC in plasma for clinical use.
On linear combinations of biomarkers to improve diagnostic accuracy.	We consider combining multiple biomarkers to improve diagnostic accuracy. Su and Liu derived the linear combinations that maximize the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. These linear combinations, however, may have unsatisfactory low sensitivity over a certain range of desired specificity. In this paper, we consider maximizing sensitivity over a range of specificity. We first present a simpler proof for Su and Liu's main theorem and further investigate some other optimal properties of their linear combinations. We then derive alternative linear combinations that have higher sensitivity over a range of high (or low) specificity. The methods are illustrated using data from a study evaluating biomarkers for coronary heart disease.
The diagnostic value of finger systolic blood pressure and cold-provocation testing for the vascular component of hand-arm vibration syndrome in health surveillance.	Hand-arm vibration syndrome (HAVS) is a complex condition with vascular, sensorineural and musculoskeletal components. A number of quantitative tests have been used for assisting in the diagnosis of HAVS and grading disease severity.
Coincidence-detection FDG-PET versus gallium in children and young adults with newly diagnosed Hodgkin's disease.	Coincidence-detection 18F-FDG-PET (PET) and 67Ga whole-body and SPECT (Ga) were compared in children and young adults with newly diagnosed Hodgkin's disease (HD).
Development and validation of the osteoporosis prescreening risk assessment (OPERA) tool to facilitate identification of women likely to have low bone density.	Osteoporosis and its consequent increase in fracture risk is a major health concern for postmenopausal women and older men and has the potential to reach epidemic proportions. The "gold standard" for osteoporosis diagnosis is bone densitometry. However, economic issues or availability of the technology may prevent the possibility of mass screening. The goal of this study was to develop and validate a clinical scoring index designed as a prescreening tool to help clinicians identify which women are at increased risk of osteoporosis [bone mineral density (BMD) T-score -2.5 or less] and should therefore undergo further testing with bone densitometry. Records were analyzed for 1522 postmenopausal females over 50 years of age who had undergone testing with dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). Osteoporosis risk index scores were compared to bone density T-scores. Hologic QDR 4500 technology was used to measure BMD at the femoral neck and lumbar spine (L1-L4). Participants who had a previous diagnosis of osteoporosis or were taking bone-active medication were excluded. Receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to identify the specific cutpoint value that would identify women at increased risk of low BMD. A simple algorithm based on age, weight, history of previous low impact fracture, early menopause, and corticosteroid therapy was developed. Validation of this five-item osteoporosis prescreening risk assessment (OPERA) index showed that the tool, at the recommended threshold (or cutoff value) of two, had a sensitivity that ranged from 88.1 [95% confidence interval (CI) for the mean: 86.2-91.9%] at the femoral neck to 90% (95% CI for the mean: 86.1-93.1%) at the lumbar spine area. Corresponding specificity values were 60.6 (95% CI for the mean: 57.9-63.3%) and 64.2% (95% CI for the mean: 61.4-66.9%), respectively. The positive predictive value (PPV) ranged from 29 at the femoral neck to 39.2% at the lumbar spine, while the corresponding negative predictive values (NPVs) reached 96.5 and 96.2%, respectively. Based on this cutoff value, the area under the ROC curve was 0.866 (95% CI for the mean: 0.847-0.882) for the lumbar spine and 0.814 (95% CI for the mean: 0.793-0.833) for the femoral neck. We conclude that the OPERA is a free and effective method for identifying Italian postmenopausal women at increased risk of osteoporosis. Its use could facilitate the appropriate and more cost-effective use of bone densitometry in developing countries.
Rectal cancer: MR imaging in local staging--is gadolinium-based contrast material helpful?	To determine retrospectively whether addition of gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) sequence to T2-weighted turbo spin-echo (SE) MR imaging is valuable for preoperative assessment of T stage and circumferential resection margin in patients with primary rectal cancer.
Serum S-100B as an indicator of early postoperative deterioration after meningioma surgery.	S-100B protein is an established serum marker of primary and secondary brain damage in head injury and stroke. Despite major progress in neurophysiologic monitoring, there are still difficulties in the early identification and quantification of evolving edema or trauma after craniotomy for tumor. In this study we aimed to correlate serum S-100B values with early postoperative neurologic course as well as late outcome in meningioma surgery.
Repeat FDG-PET after neoadjuvant therapy is a predictor of pathologic response in patients with non-small cell lung cancer.	Repeat positron emission tomography (PET) with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and chest computed tomography (CT) are used to assess the effectiveness of chemoradiotherapy in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC); however, the change in the standardized uptake values (SUV) has not been correlated with the pathologic change of the primary tumor.
Development of a score to predict the need for coronary artery bypass graft surgery in patients with non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndromes.	Our ability to identify surgical candidates before angiography is limited. Early identification of surgical patients would improve preoperative management and ultimately postoperative outcomes. The objective of this study was to determine whether surgical candidates could be identified before coronary angiography using simple clinical variables.
Clinical evaluation of a new digitizing device for improved film mammography.	The study was designed to evaluate a new digitizing device, the iView (Maxxvision, LLC, Gainesville, FL), which aims to replace the magnifying glass in mammography with real-time film digitization, display, and processing.
Power estimation for the Dorfman-Berbaum-Metz method.	The authors describe how to perform power and sample size computations for the Dorfman-Berbaum-Metz method for analyzing multireader receiver operating characteristic (ROC) studies when data from a pilot study or from a previous study similar to the planned study are available.
Text categorization models for high-quality article retrieval in internal medicine.	OBJECTIVE Finding the best scientific evidence that applies to a patient problem is becoming exceedingly difficult due to the exponential growth of medical publications. The objective of this study was to apply machine learning techniques to automatically identify high-quality, content-specific articles for one time period in internal medicine and compare their performance with previous Boolean-based PubMed clinical query filters of Haynes et al. DESIGN The selection criteria of the ACP Journal Club for articles in internal medicine were the basis for identifying high-quality articles in the areas of etiology, prognosis, diagnosis, and treatment. Naive Bayes, a specialized AdaBoost algorithm, and linear and polynomial support vector machines were applied to identify these articles. MEASUREMENTS The machine learning models were compared in each category with each other and with the clinical query filters using area under the receiver operating characteristic curves, 11-point average recall precision, and a sensitivity/specificity match method. RESULTS In most categories, the data-induced models have better or comparable sensitivity, specificity, and precision than the clinical query filters. The polynomial support vector machine models perform the best among all learning methods in ranking the articles as evaluated by area under the receiver operating curve and 11-point average recall precision. CONCLUSION This research shows that, using machine learning methods, it is possible to automatically build models for retrieving high-quality, content-specific articles using inclusion or citation by the ACP Journal Club as a gold standard in a given time period in internal medicine that perform better than the 1994 PubMed clinical query filters.
The intravenous ketamine test: a predictive response tool for oral dextromethorphan treatment in neuropathic pain.	IV infusion tests performed to predict subsequent response to oral analgesics are an increasingly popular method used to enhance medical care and conserve resources. Because no infusion test is completely accurate, the potential benefits of these tests must be weighed against the frustration and waste in resources encountered with false-positive results, and the failure to use a potentially beneficial treatment with false-negative results. In recent years, drugs that act antagonistically at N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors have been shown to be valuable adjuncts in the treatment of pain. To determine the predictive value of small-dose (0.1 mg/kg) IV ketamine on an oral dextromethorphan (DX) treatment regimen, we analyzed the analgesic response to these drugs in 25 patients at 2 tertiary care military treatment facilities, institutions at which DX is not readily accessible. When >/=50% response for both drugs was used as the outcome measure for success, the positive predictive value of the ketamine test was 64%, the negative predictive value 73%, and the observed agreement 68%. However, when >/=67% relief with ketamine was used as an outcome measure (as determined by a receiver operating characteristic curve), the positive predictive value was 90%, the negative predictive value 80%, and the observed agreement increased to 84%. Based on these results, we conclude that an IV ketamine test may be useful in predicting response to oral DX. More research is needed to determine the ideal candidates for such a test, and the optimal dose and cutoff value for the response to ketamine.
Comparative evaluation of simple indices of insulin resistance.	Various surrogate methods for the quantification of insulin sensitivity have been proposed. A comparative evaluation is lacking and is relevant for the standardization of investigative methods and comparability of results. The aims of the study were to perform a comparative validation of fasting insulin, homeostasis model assessment (HOMA), Quantitative Insulin Sensitivity Check Index (QUICKI), and revised-QUICKI (R-QUICKI) against minimal model derived estimates of insulin sensitivity (SI(MM)) in nondiabetic people and to carry out a comparative evaluation of the ability of these indices as means for the identification of individuals with the metabolic syndrome (MS) on a population basis. We used 2 data sets defined as "validation sample" and "prevalence sample". Validation sample: a total of 162 healthy men and women aged 30 to 65 years were studied by frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test (FSIVGTT). SI(MM) was calculated with the Minmod program. Prevalence sample: a total of 2,731 nondiabetic men and women aged 35 to 65 years were studied. In both samples, anthropometry, blood pressure, fasting glucose, insulin, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and free fatty acid (FFA) were measured. HOMA, QUICKI, and R-QUICKI were calculated. The MS was defined according to the Adult Treatment Panel III. Validation sample: insulin, HOMA, QUICKI, and R-QUICKI significantly correlated with SI(MM) (r = -0,53, -0.52, 0.41, 0.33; all P < .001). The finding was confirmed in obese (body mass index [BMI] > or =25 kg/m(2)), but in the normal weight, the correlation coefficient for QUICKI was significantly smaller than for the other indices. Receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve analysis performed with SI(MM) below or above the lowest 25th percentile (ie, insulin resistance yes, no) as the outcome variable and each of the 4 indices as the test variable showed no significant differences in the areas under the curve. Prevalence sample: prevalence of the MS progressively increased across quartiles of insulin resistance as evaluated by any of the 4 indices, with no significant differences between them. The novel indices QUICKI and R-QUICKI do not perform better than HOMA and fasting insulin as surrogate measures of insulin resistance or means for the identification of people with MS in the general population.
New approaches to receiver operating characteristic methods in functional magnetic resonance imaging with real data using repeated trials.	Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) methods are useful tools for evaluating the sensitivity and specificity of various postprocessing algorithms used in fMRI data analysis. New ROC methods using real fMRI data are proposed that improve a previously introduced method by Le and Hu (Le and Hu, NMR Biomed 1997;10:160-164). The proposed methods provide more accurate means of estimating the true ROC curve from real data and thereby aid in the comparative evaluation of a wide range of postprocessing tools in fMRI. The mathematical relationships between different ROC curves are explored for a comparison of different ROC methods. Examples using real and simulated data are provided to illustrate the ideas involved.
Screening for symptoms of depression by physical therapists managing low back pain.	Depression is a condition that worsens the prognosis of low back pain (LBP) and is under-recognized and undertreated in primary care. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the accuracy with which physical therapists screen for depressive symptoms among their patients with LBP.
A clinical score to predict acute renal failure after cardiac surgery.	The risk of mortality associated with acute renal failure (ARF) after open-heart surgery continues to be distressingly high. Accurate prediction of ARF provides an opportunity to develop strategies for early diagnosis and treatment. The aim of this study was to develop a clinical score to predict postoperative ARF by incorporating the effect of all of its major risk factors. A total of 33,217 patients underwent open-heart surgery at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation (1993 to 2002). The primary outcome was ARF that required dialysis. The scoring model was developed in a randomly selected test set (n = 15,838) and was validated on the remaining patients. Its predictive accuracy was compared by area under the receiver operating characteristic curve. The score ranges between 0 and 17 points. The ARF frequency at each score level in the validation set fell within the 95% confidence intervals (CI) of the corresponding frequency in the test set. Four risk categories of increasing severity (scores 0 to 2, 3 to 5, 6 to 8, and 9 to 13) were formed arbitrarily. The frequency of ARF across these categories in the test set ranged between 0.5 and 22.1%. The score was also valid in predicting ARF across all risk categories. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for the score in the test set was 0.81 (95% CI 0.78 to 0.83) and was similar to that in the validation set (0.82; 95% CI 0.80 to 0.85; P = 0.39). In conclusion, a score is valid and accurate in predicting ARF after open-heart surgery; along with increasing its clinical utility, the score can help in planning future clinical trials of ARF.
Cervical spine fractures in patients 65 years and older: a clinical prediction rule for blunt trauma.	To determine clinical predictors of cervical spine fracture in the elderly and to develop a clinical prediction rule to guide appropriate imaging in high-risk patients.
Prostate depiction at endorectal MR spectroscopic imaging: investigation of a standardized evaluation system.	To investigate the accuracy and interobserver variability of a standardized evaluation system for endorectal three-dimensional (3D) magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopic imaging of the prostate.
A comparison of different grading scales for predicting outcome after subarachnoid haemorrhage.	Most scales used to assess prognosis after subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) are based on the level of consciousness of the patient. Based on information from a logistic regression model, Ogilvy et al. developed a new grading scheme (Massachussetts General Hospital (MGH) Scale) which applied a simple scoring method to each prognostic factor considered relevant such as level of consciousness, age, quantity of blood in the first CT scan and size of the aneurysm. The purpose of this study is to introduce a modified version of the MGH scale, built up using factors applicable to every patient suffering SAH, and compare this new scale to the World Federation of Neurological Surgeons scale (WFNS), the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) scale for SAH and the MGH scale.
Statistics review 13: receiver operating characteristic curves.	This review introduces some commonly used methods for assessing the performance of a diagnostic test. The sensitivity, specificity and likelihood ratio of a test are discussed. The uses of the receiver operating characteristic curve and the area under the curve are explained.
Use of the Beck Depression Inventory-II with African American primary care patients.	The Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) is one of the most common self-report instruments used for depression screening. However, there is a lack of research examining the effectiveness of this instrument in detecting depression in an African American primary care sample. The current study included 220 African American primary care patients who completed the BDI-II and were administered a diagnostic interview to establish depressive diagnoses. Results indicated that depressed patients demonstrated significantly greater BDI-II total scores compared to non-depressed patients. The recommended cutoff score of 14 for screening for depression appears to be appropriate for African American patients in the primary care setting. This cutoff yielded sensitivity of 87.7% and specificity of 83.9%. Positive predictive value of the BDI-II was .70, and negative predictive value was .94. Similar to findings with predominantly Caucasian samples, current results suggest the BDI-II is an appropriate and accurate instrument to use for depression screening among African American primary care patients.
Impact of CD34 subsets on engraftment kinetics in allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation.	Our objective was to evaluate, probably for the first time, the impact of CD34 subsets on engraftment kinetics in allogeneic PBSC transplantation (PBSCT). PBSC graft components were analyzed in 62 cases for the absolute count/kg of total CD34+ and the following subsets: DR- and +, CD71+/-, CD38+/-, CD33+/- and CD61+/-. Time to ANC >0.5 and >1 x 10(9)/l and platelets >20 and >50 x 10(9)/l was reported. The median value for each parameter was used to discriminate rapid from slow engraftment. Four parameters showed significant predictive power of early neutrophil engraftment, namely CD34+ /DR- (P = 0.002), CD34+/38- (P = 0.02), CD34+/CD61- (P = 0.04) and total CD34+ cell dose (P = 0.04). Four parameters showed significant predictive power of early platelet engraftment, namely CD34+/CD61+ (P = 0.02), CD34+ /CD38- and total CD34+ cell dose (P = 0.04) and CD34+ /CD71- (P = 0.05). Comparing patients who received > to those who received < the threshold dose(s), only CD34+ /CD38- lost its significance for neutrophil engraftment; and only CD34+ /CD61+ retained its significance for platelet engraftment (P = 0.03); furthermore, the former group required significantly fewer platelet transfusions (P = 0.018). We concluded that in allogeneic PBSCT, the best predictor of early neutrophil engraftment is the absolute CD34+ /DR- and for early platelet engraftment is the absolute CD34+ /CD61+ cell dose.
Predictive value of urinary micro-cholesterol (mCHO) levels in patients with progressive glomerular disease.	Trace amounts of lipids are present in the urine of patients with glomerular disease, raising the possibility that the excess lipids reabsorbed by tubule cells may be toxic to these cells. In the present study, we assessed the prognostic value of micro-cholesterol (mCHO) levels in patients with chronic glomerular disease.
Optimal threshold value for left ventricular hypertrophy in blacks: the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities study.	The distribution of echocardiographic left ventricular (LV) mass differs among ethnicities. Because ethnic-specific echocardiographic criteria for LV hypertrophy (LVH) are not established, we determined whether threshold values derived from overwhelmingly white populations are appropriate for blacks, a subgroup having more LVH. Between 1992 and 1994, LV mass was measured echocardiographically in the Jackson, Mississippi, black cohort of the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities study. Participants free of prevalent cardiovascular disease (CVD) (n=1616; mean+/-SD, age 59+/-5.7; 65% women and 57% with hypertension) were included. The optimal LVH threshold value was selected from the continuum of LV mass index (LVMI=LV mass/height(2.7)) using 3 methods: (1) the best operating point from the area under the resulting receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve predicting incident CVD; (2) the value with the smallest probability value associated with incident CVD; and (3) visual inspection of functions of LVMI and CVD in the general additive model (GAM) plot. At a median follow-up of 6.8 years, there were 192 events (coronary heart disease=87, stroke=62, and congestive heart failure=43; incidence=17.6/1000 person-years). The best operating point from the resulting ROC analysis was 51.2 g/m(2.7) for sensitivity (53.4%) and specificity (61.5%). The Cox and GAM models adjusted for age, gender, systolic blood pressure, hypertension, diabetes, smoking, total cholesterol-to-high-density lipoprotein ratio, LVH by ECG criterion, and socioeconomic status found 50 to 51 g/m(2.7) as the optimal threshold for LVH in middle-aged blacks, corresponding to a minimum probability value and to a log-hazard ratio of zero, respectively. Because these values are close to the 51 g/m(2.7) established from predominantly white populations, this cutpoint is appropriate for both groups.
The Hamilton Depression Rating Scale: has the gold standard become a lead weight?	The Hamilton Depression Rating Scale has been the gold standard for the assessment of depression for more than 40 years. Criticism of the instrument has been increasing. The authors review studies published since the last major review of this instrument in 1979 that explicitly examine the psychometric properties of the Hamilton depression scale. The authors' goal is to determine whether continued use of the Hamilton depression scale as a measure of treatment outcome is justified.
BMI, waist-circumference and waist-hip-ratio as diagnostic tests for fatness in adolescents.	To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of body mass index (BMI, kg/m(2)), waist-circumference (WC) and waist-hip-ratio (WHR) as diagnostic tests for detecting fatness in adolescents.
Use of self-report to predict ability to walk 400 meters in mobility-limited older adults.	To determine whether the ability to walk 400 m could be predicted from self-reported walking habits and abilities in older adults and to develop an accurate self-report measure appropriate for observational trials of mobility when functional measures are impractical to collect.
A pilot study for a screening trial of cervical fluorescence spectroscopy.	Fluorescence spectroscopy is a promising technology for detection of epithelial precancers and cancers. In preparation for a multicenter phase II screening trial, a pilot trial was conducted to test data collection and patient examination procedures, use data forms, time procedures, and identify problems with preliminary data analysis. Women 18 years of age and older underwent a questionnaire, a complete history, and a physical examination, including a pan-colposcopy of the lower genital tract. A fiber-optic probe measured fluorescence excitation-emission matrices at 1-3 cervical sites for 58 women. The data collection procedures, data forms, and procedure times worked well, although collection times for all the clinical data take an average of 28 min. The clinical team followed procedures well, and the data could be retrieved from the database at all sites. The multivariate analysis algorithm correctly identified squamous normal tissue 99% of the time and columnar normal tissue only 7%. The assessment of ploidy from monolayer samples was not accurate in this small sample. The study was successful as a pilot trial. We learned who participated, who withdrew, how often abnormalities were present, and that algorithms that have worked extremely well in previous studies do not work as well when a few study parameters are changed. The current algorithm for diagnosis identified squamous normal tissue very accurately and did less well for columnar normal tissue. Inflammation may be an explanation for this phenomenon. Fluorescence spectroscopy is a promising technology for the detection of epithelial precancers and cancers. The screening trial of fluorescence and reflectance spectroscopy was successful.
Evaluating operative risk in colorectal cancer surgery: ASA and POSSUM-based predictive models.	To review two predictive models, based on the American Society of Anaesthesiologists (ASA) and the Physiological and Operative Severity Score for the enumeration of Mortality and morbidity (POSSUM)-used for estimating postoperative mortality in patients, undergoing surgery for colorectal disease, in the UK.
Development and validation of an immunosuppressant therapy adherence barrier instrument.	To decrease allograft rejection as a result of non-adherence to immunosuppressant therapy (IST), a valid and reliable instrument that measures solid organ transplant patients' adherence barriers is needed.
Indicators of acute bacterial meningitis in children at a rural Kenyan district hospital.	Acute bacterial meningitis remains an important cause of death and neurologic sequelae in African children. The clinical features of meningitis are often nonspecific and in this setting may overlap with those of malaria. Early diagnosis and appropriate antibiotic treatment are perhaps the most important steps in management, but published data suggest that fewer than half of the cases of childhood meningitis are identified at first assessment in hospitals in this region. The objective of this study was to identify clinical indicators of acute bacterial meningitis by examining components of the World Health Organization Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) referral criteria for meningitis (lethargy, unconsciousness, inability to feed, stiff neck, or seizures) and other symptoms and signs.
Evaluation of recombinant antigens for the measurement of antibodies to streptolysin O and streptococcal DNase B on the Beckman Coulter IMMAGE system and comparison with a method employing conventional antigens.	The performance of a newly devised method employing recombinant antigens for the determination of antibodies to streptolysin O and DNase B on the Beckman Coulter IMMAGE System was compared with a nephelometric assay using conventional antigens. Sera from 114 patients with or without evidence of streptococcal infection were analysed by the two techniques. The results obtained with the new method correlated well with those of the reference test. The sensitivity of a combination measurement of antibodies to streptolysin O and DNase B was higher than that obtained when measuring each parameter alone. Handling of the tests was easier on the Beckman Coulter IMMAGE System. In conclusion, the new test from Beckman Coulter for the measurement of antibodies to streptolysin O and DNase B performs well and equals measurements using conventional antigens on a nephelometer.
Pre-transplant inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase activity is associated with clinical outcome after renal transplantation.	Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), an inhibitor of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH) activity, is usually administered as a standard dose of 1 g b.i.d. after renal transplantation. Because MMF dose reductions are associated with inferior outcome, we investigated pre-transplant IMPDH activity, MMF dose reductions and outcome. IMPDH activity was determined in isolated peripheral mononuclear cells immediately prior to renal transplantation. We observed considerable inter-individual variability in pre-transplant IMPDH activity (9.35 +/- 4.22 nmol/mg/h). Thirty of 48 patients (62.5%) with standard MMF dose (1 g b.i.d.) had dose reductions within 3 years post-transplant; these patients also had significantly lower IMPDH activity. The area under the receiver-operating characteristics curve (AUC-ROC) for prediction of dose reduction within 6 months post-transplant was 0.75 (95% CI, 0.61-0.89; p < 0.004). IMPDH activity above the cut-off value, MMF dose reduction and age of recipient were significant contributors for the occurrence of acute rejection in the multivariate logistic regression. Patients with high IMPDH activity and MMF dose reduction had the highest rejection rate (81.8% vs. 36.4%; p < 0.01).
Predicting neonatal outcomes: birthweight, body mass index or ponderal index?	To compare birthweight (BW), body mass index (BMI) and ponderal index (PI) as predictors of selected short-term (ST) outcomes, namely Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) admission and prolonged hospitalization (PH), among newborn (NB) infants.
Prediction of outcomes of assisted reproduction treatment using the calcium ionophore-induced acrosome reaction.	Sperm concentration and motility are poor predictors of the outcome of intrauterine insemination (IUI), hysteroscopic intratubal insemination (HIT), or complete fertilization failure (CFF) in conventional IVF. We investigated whether the calcium ionophore-induced acrosome reaction (AR) constitutes an additional indicator of CFF and pregnancy that is independent of these semen parameters.
Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis and bone mineral densimetry]	While the diagnosis and management of primary osteoporosis have been established and widely utilized, these for glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIOP), i.e. a representative of secondary osteoporosis, are on their way. GIOP caused fractures at a higher bone mineral density (BMD) compared to primary osteoporosis. The cut off value of the BMD for prediction of fractures was around 80% of the young adult means (T-score; -1.5). As this value would give a useful diagnostic point for initiating treatments, measurements of BMD should be a significant tool for management of GIOP.
Computer-assisted detection of pulmonary nodules: evaluation of diagnostic performance using an expert knowledge-based detection system with variable reconstruction slice thickness settings.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the performance of a computer-assisted diagnostic (CAD) tool using various reconstruction slice thicknesses (RST). Image data of 20 patients undergoing multislice CT for pulmonary metastasis were reconstructed at 4.0, 2.0 and 0.75 mm RST and assessed by two blinded radiologists (R1 and R2) and CAD. Data were compared against an independent reference standard. Nodule subgroups (diameter >10, 4-10, <4 mm) were assessed separately. Statistical methods were the ROC analysis and Mann-Whitney U test. CAD was outperformed by readers at 4.0 mm (Az = 0.18, 0.62 and 0.69 for CAD, R1 and R2, respectively; P<0.05), comparable at 2.0 mm (Az = 0.57, 0.70 and 0.69 for CAD, R1 and R2, respectively), and superior using 0.75 mm RST (Az = 0.80, 0.70 and 0.70 and sensitivity = 0.74, 0.53 and 0.53 for CAD, R1 and R2, respectively; P<0.05). Reader performances were significantly enhanced by CAD (Az = 0.93 and 0.95 for R1 + CAD and R2 + CAD, respectively, P<0.05). The CAD advantage was best for nodules <10 mm (detection rates = 93.3, 89.9, 47.9 and 47.9% for R1 + CAD, R2 + CAD, R1 and R2, respectively). CAD using 0.75 mm RST outperformed radiologists in nodules below 10 mm in diameter and should be used to replace a second radiologist. CAD is not recommended for 4.0 mm RST.
Sequential organ failure assessment score as the determinant of outcome for patients with severe sepsis.	To evaluate the impact of organ dysfunction in severe sepsis and determine the effectiveness of organ dysfunction scores to discriminate outcome after admission to the intensive care unit (ICU).
In defense of the signal detection interpretation of remember/know judgments.	Donaldson (1996) argued that remember/know judgments can be conceptualized within a signal detection framework by assuming that they are based on two criteria situated along a strength-of-memory decision axis. According to this model, items that exceed a high criterion receive a remember response, whereas items that only exceed a lower criterion receive a know response. Although a variety of findings have been presented in evidence against this idea, Dunn (2004) recently showed that detection theory is fully compatible with those findings. We present a variety of new results and new analyses that weigh strongly in favor of the detection interpretation. We further show that a dual-process account of recognition memory is compatible with a unidimensional detection model despite the common notion that such a model necessarily assumes a single process. The key assumption of this model is that individual recognition decisions are based on both recollection and familiarity (not on one process or the other).
The role of repeat uterine evacuation in the management of persistent gestational trophoblastic disease.	To evaluate the role of second (and third) uterine evacuation in the management of persistent gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD).
Optical coherence tomography detects characteristic retinal nerve fiber layer thickness corresponding to band atrophy of the optic discs.	To analyze retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness in eyes with band atrophy by use of optical coherence tomography (OCT) and to evaluate the ability of OCT to detect this characteristic pattern of RNFL loss.
Breast tissue characterization using FARMA modeling of ultrasonic RF echo.	A number of empirical and analytical studies demonstrated that the ultrasound RF echo reflected from tissue exhibits 1/f characteristics. In this paper, we propose to model 1/f characteristics of the ultrasonic RF echo by a novel parsimonious model, namely the fractional differencing auto regressive moving average (FARMA) process, and evaluated diagnostic value of model parameters for breast cancer malignancy differentiation. FARMA model captures the fractal and long term correlated nature of the backscattered speckle texture and facilitates robust efficient estimation of fractal parameters. In our study, in addition to the computer generated FARMA model parameters, we included patient age and radiologist's prebiopsy level of suspicion (LOS) as potential indicators of malignant and benign masses. We evaluated the performance of the proposed set of features using various classifiers and training methods using 120 in vivo breast images. Our study shows that the area under the receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve of FARMA model parameters alone is superior to the area under the ROC curve of the radiologist's prebiopsy LOS. The area under the ROC curve of the three sets of features yields a value of 0.87, with a confidence interval of [0.85, 0.89], at a significance level of 0.05. Our results suggest that the proposed method of ultrasound RF echo model leads to parameters that can differentiate breast tumors with a relatively high precision. This set of RF echo features can be incorporated into a comprehensive computer-aided diagnostic system to aid physicians in breast cancer diagnosis.
Noninvasive identification of patients with early coronary atherosclerosis by assessment of digital reactive hyperemia.	We investigated the value of reactive hyperemia peripheral arterial tonometry (RH-PAT) as a noninvasive tool to identify individuals with coronary microvascular endothelial dysfunction.
Extraoral imaging for proximal caries detection: Bitewings vs scanogram.	The objective of this study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of 3 extraoral imaging modalities with an intraoral bitewing radiograph for proximal caries detection.
African American children's reports of depressed mood, hopelessness, and suicidal ideation and later suicide attempts.	This study attempted to assess whether family demographic characteristics and child aggressive behavior are equal to or better than child self-reported depressive symptoms in predicting suicidal behavior. Participants were a community population of African Americans first recruited at age 6 and followed periodically through age 19-20. Measures included child self-reports of depressed mood, hopelessness, and suicidal ideation, teacher reported child aggression in grades 4-6, 6 th grade caregiver report of family demographic characteristics, and the participants' report at age 19-20 of suicide attempts. Depressed mood proved the most consistent predictor of adolescent/young adult attempts in our logistic regression analyses of the data from the population as a whole and among females. The relationship between depressed mood and suicide attempts in males was in the expected direction, but was not statistically significant. Teacher-reported youth aggressive behavior did prove to be a significant predictor of attempts in 4 th and 5 th grade for the population as a whole, but not in our analyses by gender. The relationships between family demographic characteristics and attempts failed to reach statistical significance, but were, generally, in the expected direction. The study revealed that African American children's self-reports of depressed mood as early as grade 4 may prove useful in predicting adolescent/young adult suicide attempts, particularly among females. Neither family demographics nor teacher-reported child aggressive behavior proved equal to child self-reported depressive symptoms in predicting later suicide attempts.
Exercise testing in asymptomatic patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia.	Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) is a frequent genetic disorder in Europe, affecting one in 500 people in its heterozygous form. Both homozygous and heterozygous forms are correlated with increased incidence of cardiovascular events.
Troponin I as a specific marker of myocardial injury: from theory to clinical practice in the diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome.	To assess the diagnostic accuracy of troponin I (TnI) elevation in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) in the emergency department (ED).
Diagnostic accuracy of fetal renal pelvis anteroposterior diameter as a predictor of uropathy: a prospective study.	The purpose of this study was to assess the accuracy of prenatal ultrasound measurement of anteroposterior renal pelvis diameter (APD) to discriminate between significant uropathy and idiopathic renal pelvis dilatation.
Relationship of left atrial appendage function to left ventricular function.	The study was conducted to evaluate the relationship of left atrial appendage function to left ventricular function and to analyze, if left ventricular dysfunction predisposed to left atrial appendage thrombus formation even in the presence of sinus rhythm.
Utilization of laser fluorescence to monitor caries lesions development in primary teeth.	The objective of this study was to analyze and evaluate laser fluorescence (LF) performance in monitoring and quantifying smooth-surface incipient caries lesions in primary teeth.
Initial validation of a screening battery for the detection of HIV-associated cognitive impairment.	This study sought to develop and validate a screening battery for detecting HIV-related neuropsychological (NP) impairment. Six NP measures representing the ability areas most likely affected by HIV infection were paired in 14 combinations and their diagnostic accuracy rates compared. The measures were selected from a larger NP battery administered to 190 HIV-seropositive (HIV+) participants. Screening battery performance was classified as NP impaired if demographically corrected T-scores fell below 40 on both tests, or below 35 on one test. Using blind clinical ratings of NP test results from the larger battery as the "gold standard" for global NP status (impaired or unimpaired), we found that several test combinations demonstrated adequate diagnostic accuracy in detecting NP impairment. The most sensitive test combinations were the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (HVLT-R; Total Recall) and the Grooved Pegboard Test nondominant hand (PND) pair and the HVLT-R and WAIS-III Digit Symbol (DS) subtest pair (sensitivity = 78% and 75%, respectively). Both test combinations (HVLT-R/PND, HVLT-R/DS) were more accurate than the HIV Dementia Scale (HDS) in classifying HIV+ participants as NP impaired or unimpaired. Results suggest that demographically corrected T-scores from pairs of common NP measures may serve as valid screening instruments to identify subjects with HIV-related neurocognitive impairment who could benefit from more extensive NP examination.
Assessment of soluble intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1) in women with benign ovarian tumors]	Overexpression of intracellular adhesion molecule-I (ICAM-1) was observed in many benign and malignant tumors. The aim of our study was to evaluate its serum concentrations as well as CA-125 in women with benign ovarian tumors.
Significance analysis of ROC indices for comparing diagnostic markers: applications to gene microarray data.	A common objective in microarray experiments is to select genes that are differentially expressed between two classes (two treatment groups). Selection of differentially expressed genes involves two steps. The first step is to calculate a discriminatory score that will rank the genes in order of evidence of differential expressions. The second step is to determine a cutoff for the ranked scores. Summary indices of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve provide relative measures for a ranking of differential expressions. This article proposes using the hypothesis-testing approach to compute the raw p-values and/or adjusted p-values for three ROC discrimination measures. A cutoff p-value can be determined from the (ranked) p-values or the adjusted p-values to select differentially expressed genes. To quantify the degree of confidence in the selected top-ranked genes, the conditional false discovery rate (FDR) over the selected gene set and the "Type I" (false positive) error probability for each selected gene are estimated. The proposed approach is applied to a public colon tumor data set for illustration. The selected gene sets from three ROC summary indices and the commonly used two-sample t-statistic are applied to the sample classification to evaluate the predictability of the four discrimination measures.
The desmopressin test as a predictive factor of outcome after pituitary surgery for Cushing's disease.	Taking advantage of the over-expression of V3 receptors in adenomatous corticotroph cells, we evaluated the response to the vasopressin agonist desmopressin in 22 patients operated on for Cushing's disease, with a mean follow-up of 4.5 years.
Robust unsupervised segmentation of infarct lesion from diffusion tensor MR images using multiscale statistical classification and partial volume voxel reclassification.	Manual region tracing method for segmentation of infarction lesions in images from diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DT-MRI) is usually used in clinical works, but it is time consuming. A new unsupervised method has been developed, which is a multistage procedure, involving image preprocessing, calculation of tensor field and measurement of diffusion anisotropy, segmentation of infarction volume based on adaptive multiscale statistical classification (MSSC), and partial volume voxel reclassification (PVVR). The method accounts for random noise, intensity overlapping, partial volume effect (PVE), and intensity shading artifacts, which always appear in DT-MR images. The proposed method was applied to 20 patients with clinically diagnosed brain infarction by DT-MRI scans. The accuracy and reproducibility in terms of identifying the infarction lesion have been confirmed by clinical experts. This automatic segmentation method is promising not only in detecting the location and the size of infarction lesion in stroke patient but also in quantitatively analyzing diffusion anisotropy of lesion to guide clinical diagnoses and therapy.
Deletions of p15 and p16 in schistosomal bladder cancer correlate with transforming growth factor-alpha expression.	Cell proliferation is stimulated by growth factors and inhibited by p15 and p16 gene products. We compared cell regulators, TGF-alpha, p15, and p16, in schistosomal and non-schistosomal bladder cancer to explore possible differences in their alterations between the two subtypes and their correlations with proliferation pattern [synthetic phase fraction (SPF)], DNA ploidy, and clinicopathological factors.
CA-125 serum levels and pregnancy outcome in in vitro fertilization.	This is a prospective cohort study of CA-125 levels drawn on the day of hCG administration in 386 women undergoing IVF treatment. The CA-125 levels were not helpful in determining pregnancy outcome, as indicated by poor sensitivity (40.8%) and specificity (52.7%), as well as an area under the receiver operator characteristic curve close to 0.50.
Placental growth hormone in Down's syndrome screening.	A number of serum markers have been proposed to improve the sensitivity (and specificity) of the triple test, which, until now, has been the gold standard in second-trimester serum screening for Down's syndrome. Among them, human placental growth hormone (hPGH) has been proposed because of its significantly elevated serum levels in pregnancies affected by chromosomal aneuploidies. Our experience, on maternal serum stored from 32 Down's syndrome-affected pregnancies, confirms a slight but significant increase in hPGH levels compared with controls. These data summarized to that of the previous screening could give a calculated detection rate of 71.9%, better than that of the standard triple test alone (65.6%).
Day 14 maternal serum progesterone levels predict pregnancy outcome in IVF/ICSI treatment cycles: a prospective study.	Serum progesterone has been advocated as a tool in the diagnosis of early pregnancy failure. We conducted this prospective study in order to investigate the potential value of early (14 days after oocyte recovery) serum progesterone measurement, in women undergoing IVF/ICSI and receiving rectal progesterone supplements, in relation to pregnancy outcome.
Inspiratory-to-total lung capacity ratio predicts mortality in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.	Static lung hyperinflation has important clinical consequences in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. We analyzed the power of lung hyperinflation as measured by the inspiratory capacity-to-total lung capacity ratio (IC/TLC) to predict mortality in a cohort of 689 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (95% males; FEV(1), 1.17 L) with a mean follow-up of 34 months. We also compared the predictive value of IC/TLC with that of the BODE (body mass index, airflow obstruction, dyspnea, exercise performance) Index. Subjects who died (183; 27%) were older; had lower body mass index, FEV(1), and IC/TLC ratio; walked less in the 6-minute walking distance; and had more dyspnea, a higher BODE Index, and comorbidity (p < 0.001). On the basis of logistic regression analysis, IC/TLC was found to be a good and independent predictor of all-cause and respiratory mortality. On the basis of receiver operating characteristic Type II curves, IC/TLC compared favorably with FEV(1) and predicted mortality independently of the BODE Index. We conclude that IC/TLC is an independent risk factor for mortality in subjects with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. We propose that this ratio be considered in the assessment of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Umbilical cord pH and base excess values in relation to adverse outcome events for infants delivering at term.	This study was undertaken to determine the relationship of umbilical cord pH and base excess (BE) values to adverse neonatal outcomes for a large tertiary hospital population delivering at term. Study design The perinatal/neonatal database of St. Joseph's Health Care, London, Canada, was used to obtain the umbilical cord pH and BE values, incidence of adverse neonatal outcomes, and patient demographics for all term (>/=37 weeks' gestation), singleton, liveborn infants with no major anomalies delivering between November 1995 and March 2002 (n=20,456). Statistical analyses included chi(2) analysis, logistic regression models to develop odds ratios and creation of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves with area under curve (AUC) calculations.
Correlation of measured amnionic fluid volume to sonographic and magnetic resonance predictions.	The purpose of this study was to compare the relationship between the actual amnionic fluid volume that was measured at delivery and magnetic resonance amnionic fluid volume determination, largest vertical pocket, and amnionic fluid index.
Neither baseline tests of molecular hypercoagulability nor D-dimer levels predict deep venous thrombosis in critically ill medical-surgical patients.	Predicting patients who are harboring asymptomatic deep venous thrombosis (DVT), or who are at particular risk of developing DVT, is a desirable clinical goal since prevention or early treatment of DVT might reduce the risk of fatal pulmonary embolism. Thus validation of simple laboratory tests that reliably predict venous thromboembolism (VTE) would be clinically very important. Tests that might be useful for these applications include markers of hypercoagulability (predicting patients at risk of DVT) and D-dimer (predicting which patients may have acute DVT).
Accuracy of Veterans Administration databases for a diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis.	To determine the accuracy of International Classification of Diseases (ICD) code 714 for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) diagnosis in a Veterans Administration (VA) hospital database and to examine the effects of adding laboratory and pharmacy data to ICD code 714 on accuracy of RA diagnosis.
Effect of temporal subtraction images on radiologists' detection of lung cancer on CT: results of the observer performance study with use of film computed tomography images.	To evaluate the effect of temporal subtraction images on the radiologists' detection of early primary lung cancer in computed tomography (CT) scans.
Use of a panel of tumor markers (carcinoembryonic antigen, cancer antigen 125, carbohydrate antigen 15-3, and cytokeratin 19 fragments) in pleural fluid for the differential diagnosis of benign and malignant effusions.	The diagnostic value of tumor markers in pleural fluid is subject to debate. The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic performance of several tumor markers in common use for detecting malignant pleural disease.
Validity of the American Thoracic Society and other spirometric algorithms using FVC and forced expiratory volume at 6 s for predicting a reduced total lung capacity.	(1) To compare the performance of three spirometric algorithms developed to predict whether the total lung capacity (TLC) is reduced vs normal or increased, (2) to determine if forced expiratory volume at 6 s (FEV(6)) can be substituted for FVC in these algorithms, and (3) to determine if ascertainment bias was present in patients referred for the measurement of spirometry and TLC compared to patients referred for spirometry only.
Markedly elevated GAD antibodies in SPS: effects of age and illness duration.	Five hundred seventy-six patients with suspected stiff-person syndrome (SPS) underwent immunocytochemistry (ICC). Of these, 286 underwent radioimmunoassay (RIA) for glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies; 116 were GAD antibody positive by one or both tests. Ninety-six percent of those positive by ICC had RIA values several standard deviations above normal. RIA did not correlate with age or illness duration. Marked elevations of RIA for GAD antibodies were characteristic of ICC-confirmed SPS, and modest elevations were not.
Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography after aortic valve replacement does not predict subsequent transvalvular gradients.	Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) can be used to assess gradients after aortic valve replacement (AVR). However, altered cardiac output after weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass, dynamic changes in valve function early after surgery, and limitations in transducer alignment may compromise the ability to predict valve hemodynamics on follow up. The study aim was to compare gradients on intraoperative TEE immediately after AVR with gradients on transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) after two to four months.
Segmental waveform analysis in the diagnosis of peripheral arterial occlusive diseases.	The duplex exam is widely used in the diagnosis of peripheral arterial occlusive disease. It presents some drawbacks, however, such as calcified plaques, sequential stenosis, and time-consuming examinations. A type of waveform analysis, referred to in this study as segmental analysis, was conducted to try to find solutions to these problems. Parameters of waveform analysis (peak systolic velocity, acceleration time, pulsatility, and resistance indices) taken at the common femoral and popliteal arteries in 177 arterial segments (aortoiliac and femoropopliteal) were compared to angiography results in a prospective manner. The statistical analysis showed an accuracy rate above 95% for all parameters in defining hemodynamic-significant (stenosis and occlusions) lesions in both segments. Also, a combination of measurements (parallel tests) was used to differentiate between hemodynamic-significant stenosis and occlusions, showing sensitivity and specificity rates between 84.8% and 94.8%. Findings from this study show that the hemodynamics of an arterial segment can be evaluated by segmental waveform analysis. It can also be used as a screening test for peripheral arterial occlusive diseases alone or combined with the standard duplex color exam.
Visual response properties of burst and tonic firing in the mouse dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus.	Thalamic relay cells fire action potentials in two modes: burst and tonic. Previous studies in cats have shown that these two modes are associated with significant differences in the visual information carried by spikes in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN). Here we describe the visual response properties of burst and tonic firing in the mouse dLGN. Extracellular recordings of activity in single geniculate cells were performed under halothane and nitrous oxide anesthesia in vivo. After confirming that the criteria used to isolate burst spikes from these recordings identify firing events with properties described for burst firing in other species and preparations, we show that burst firing in the mouse dLGN occurs during visual stimulation. We then compare burst and tonic firing across a wide range of visual response characteristics. While the two firing modes do not differ with respect to spatial summation or spatial frequency tuning, they show significant differences in the temporal domain. Burst spikes are phase advanced relative to their tonic counterparts. Burst firing is also more rectified, possesses sharper temporal frequency tuning, and prefers lower temporal frequencies than tonic firing. In addition, contrast-response curves are more step-like for burst responses. Finally, we present analyses that describe the stimulus detection abilities and spike timing reliability of burst and tonic firing.
Previous cycle cancellation due to poor follicular development as a predictor of ovarian response in cycles stimulated with gonadotrophin-releasing hormone agonist-gonadotrophin treatment.	There is scanty information analysing the predictive value of a poor response, in terms of cancellation of the IVF cycle because of poor follicular development, as a predictor of ovarian response in a subsequent treatment cycle. This study, where logistic regression analysis was used, was undertaken to investigate the relative power of the woman's age, basal FSH, and previous cycle cancellation both as single and combined predictors of ovarian response in an IVF program where pituitary desensitization is routinely used.
Optimal cut-point and its corresponding Youden Index to discriminate individuals using pooled blood samples.	Costs can hamper the evaluation of the effectiveness of new biomarkers. Analysis of smaller numbers of pooled specimens has been shown to be a useful cost-cutting technique. The Youden index (J), a function of sensitivity (q) and specificity (p), is a commonly used measure of overall diagnostic effectiveness. More importantly, J is the maximum vertical distance or difference between the ROC curve and the diagonal or chance line; it occurs at the cut-point that optimizes the biomarker's differentiating ability when equal weight is given to sensitivity and specificity. Using the additive property of the gamma and normal distributions, we present a method to estimate the Youden index and the optimal cut-point, and extend its applications to pooled samples. We study the effect of pooling when only a fixed number of individuals are available for testing, and pooling is carried out to save on the number of assays. We measure loss of information by the change in root mean squared error of the estimates of the optimal cut-point and the Youden index, and we study the extent of this loss via a simulation study. In conclusion, pooling can result in a substantial cost reduction while preserving the effectiveness of estimators, especially when the pool size is not very large.
Association between the severity of sepsis and the changes in hemostatic molecular markers and vascular endothelial damage markers.	It is well known that disorders of coagulation and fibrinolysis play a major role in the development of organ dysfunction during sepsis. Furthermore, the importance of the early initiation of anticoagulation therapy for severe cases has been emphasized based on the success of recent clinical trials. The purpose of this study is to search for useful markers for predicting organ dysfunction. Plasma samples were prospectively collected from 78 patients within 48 h after the onset of sepsis. Hemostatic markers and endothelial damage markers were compared between the patients with and without organ dysfunction. The WBC and platelet counts were not different between the groups. In contrast, fibrin/fibrinogen degradation products, D-dimer, thrombin-antithrombin complex, plasmin alpha2-antiplasmin complex, soluble fibrin, and total plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 were significantly higher, and the antithrombin activity and protein C levels were lower in the patients with organ dysfunction. Thus, the changes in the hemostatic molecular markers were associated with organ dysfunction from an early stage of sepsis, and antithrombin and protein C activities were found to be the most reliable markers.
Triple arterial phase dynamic MRI with sensitivity encoding for hypervascular hepatocellular carcinoma: comparison of the diagnostic accuracy among the early, middle, late, and whole triple arterial phase imaging.	We assessed and compared the diagnostic accuracy of the early, middle, late, and whole triple arterial phase MRI with sensitivity encoding (SENSE) for the detection of hypervascular hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
The association between propofol-induced loss of consciousness and the SNAP index.	The SNAP is a processed electroencephalogram monitor that uses an algorithm based on low- and high-frequency spectral components to derive a SNAP index. In this study we sought to determine the relationship of the SNAP index with loss of consciousness in subjects receiving a bolus of propofol. Unpremedicated subjects were randomized to receive 1 of 11 doses of IV propofol (0, 0.6, 0.8, 1.0, 1.2, 1.4, 1.6, 1.8, 2.0, 2.2, or 2.4 mg/kg; n=20 per group). The SNAP index was recorded when the subject became unconscious (end-point) or at 160 s after the injection. Sixty-five percent of subjects achieved the end-point (defined as the time at which the subject dropped a weighted syringe). The 50% effective dose for propofol was 0.97 mg/kg (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.86-1.07 mg/kg). The median awake SNAP index was 92 (range 78-99) and did not differ between subjects who reached the end-point and those who did not. The end-point SNAP index decreased from baseline in the subjects who dropped the syringe to a median of 76 (range, 57-94) at doses > or =1.0 mg/kg but was not different among doses. The index was not different from baseline at 160 s in subjects who did not reach the end-point. Binary logistic regression models predicted a SNAP index 95% effective dose for loss of consciousness of 71 (95% CI, 63-74) and 19 (95% CI, 16-22) for changes in SNAP index from baseline. The areas under the receiver operator characteristic curves for these models were 0.837 and 0.864. The SNAP index correlated with propofol-induced loss of consciousness. It appears to be a useful indicator of loss of consciousness and should be further investigated as a monitor of anesthesia depth.
Limitations of the pelvic examination for evaluation of the female pelvic organs.	To assess factors influencing an accurate pelvic examination under the best possible circumstances.
GenSo-FDSS: a neural-fuzzy decision support system for pediatric ALL cancer subtype identification using gene expression data.	Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common malignancy of childhood, representing nearly one third of all pediatric cancers. Currently, the treatment of pediatric ALL is centered on tailoring the intensity of the therapy applied to a patient's risk of relapse, which is linked to the type of leukemia the patient has. Hence, accurate and correct diagnosis of the various leukemia subtypes becomes an important first step in the treatment process. Recently, gene expression profiling using DNA microarrays has been shown to be a viable and accurate diagnostic tool to identify the known prognostically important ALL subtypes. Thus, there is currently a huge interest in developing autonomous classification systems for cancer diagnosis using gene expression data. This is to achieve an unbiased analysis of the data and also partly to handle the large amount of genetic information extracted from the DNA microarrays.
Diagnostic accuracy of bronchodilator responsiveness in wheezy children.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of bronchodilator responsiveness for asthma in 5-10 year old children.
Summary receiver operating characteristic curve analysis techniques in the evaluation of diagnostic tests.	The number of studies in the literature using summary receiver operating characteristic (SROC) analysis of diagnostic accuracy is rising. The SROC is useful in many such meta-analyses, but is often poorly understood by clinicians, and its use can be inappropriate. The academic literature on this topic is not always easy to comprehend. Interpretation is therefore difficult. This report aims to explain the concept of SROC analysis, its advantages, disadvantages, indications, and interpretation for the cardiothoracic surgeon. We use a practical approach to show how SROC analysis can be applied to meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy by using a contrived dataset of studies on virtual bronchoscopy in the diagnosis of airway lesions.
Is virtual bronchoscopy an efficient diagnostic tool for the thoracic surgeon?	Virtual bronchoscopy has emerged over the past decade as a potentially complementary investigation to conventional bronchoscopy in the diagnosis, grading, and monitoring of pulmonary disease. A meta-analysis reporting on the use of virtual bronchoscopy has not yet been performed. The primary aim of this study is to evaluate its diagnostic accuracy compared to the gold standard investigation of conventional bronchoscopy (fiberoptic or rigid). Quantitative data synthesis included the calculation of independent sensitivity and specificity, construction of summary receiver operating characteristic curves, pooled analysis, and sensitivity analysis. Seventeen studies were identified comprising 459 patients. The calculated pooled sensitivity was 84% (95% CI, 78% to 89%), specificity 75% (95% CI, 62% to 85%) and area under the curve was 0.92, which shows good diagnostic performance. Meta-analysis confirms virtual bronchoscopy is very discriminating in the evaluation of patients with significant airway stenosis that is due to a wide spectrum of pathologic conditions. It can potentially have a beneficial role in selected thoracic patients (with bronchoesophageal fistulas, postlung transplantation, anastomoses, and suspected foreign body aspiration).
Meta-analysis of positron emission tomographic and computed tomographic imaging in detecting mediastinal lymph node metastases in nonsmall cell lung cancer.	A systematic review was undertaken to select studies that compared the accuracy of 2-[18F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography with computed tomographic imaging in detecting mediastinal lymph node metastases in patients with nonsmall cell lung cancer. Two authors selected relevant articles according to predefined criteria. With a meta-analytic method, summary receiver operating characteristic curves were constructed. The point on the receiver operating characteristic curve with equal sensitivity and specificity for 2-[18F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography was Q* = 0.90 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.86 to 0.95). For computed tomography it was 0.70 (95% CI, 0.65 to 0.75). The difference was highly significant (p < 0.0001). We conclude that 2-[18F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography is more accurate than computed tomography in detecting mediastinal lymph node metastases.
Does EuroSCORE predict length of stay and specific postoperative complications after cardiac surgery?	To evaluate the performance of EuroSCORE in the prediction of in-hospital postoperative length of stay and specific major postoperative complications after cardiac surgery.
Detection of liver metastases: gadobenate dimeglumine-enhanced three-dimensional dynamic phases and one-hour delayed phase MR imaging versus superparamagnetic iron oxide-enhanced MR imaging.	The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic performance of gadobenate dimeglumine (Gd-BOPTA)-enhanced MR imaging, including dynamic phases and one-hour delayed phase, versus superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO)-enhanced imaging for detection of liver metastases. Twenty-three patients with 59 liver metastases underwent Gd-BOPTA-enhanced MR imaging (unenhanced, arterial, portal, equilibrium and one-hour delayed phase) using three-dimensional volumetric interpolated imaging and SPIO-enhanced T2-weighted turbo spin-echo and T2*-weighted gradient-echo sequences on a 1.5-T unit. Three observers independently interpreted the three sets of images, i.e. Gd-BOPTA-enhanced dynamic MRI (set 1), delayed phase imaging (set 2) and SPIO-enhanced MRI (set 3). Diagnostic accuracy was evaluated using the alternative-free response receiver operating chracteristic (ROC) analysis. Sensitivity and positive predictive value were also evaluated. The mean accuracy (Az values) and sensitivity of Gd-BOPTA-enhanced delayed phase imaging (0.982, 95.5%) were comparable to those of SPIO-enhanced imaging (0.984, 97.2%). In addition, Az values and sensitivities of both imaging sets were significantly higher than those of Gd-BOPTA-enhanced dynamic images (0.826, 77.4%: p<0.05). There was no significant difference in the positive predictive value among the three image sets. Gd-BOPTA-enhanced delayed phase imaging showed comparable diagnostic performance to SPIO-enhanced imaging for the detection of liver metastases, and had a better diagnostic performance than Gd-BOPTA-enhanced dynamic images.
HLA-B27 typing: evaluation of an allele-specific PCR melting assay and two flow cytometric antigen assays.	Human leukocyte antigen B27 (HLA-B27) is a major histocompatibility complex class 1 molecule that is strongly associated with the disease ankylosing spondylitis. Testing for HLA-B27 is of diagnostic value because 90% of patients with ankylosing spondylitis have the B27 antigen. Two commonly used HLA-B27 flow cytometric assays are commercially available.
Diastolic dysfunction and left atrial volume: a population-based study.	We examined the association between diastolic function and left atrial volume indexed to body surface area (LAVi) in a population-based study.
Sensitivity and specificity of the StratusOCT for perimetric glaucoma.	To determine the sensitivity and specificity of measurements of the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) using the StratusOCT in glaucoma subjects with visual field (VF) defects.
Establishment of the minimum clinically important difference for the bath ankylosing spondylitis indices: a prospective study.	The minimum clinically important difference (MCID) is the minimum level of change of an outcome measure that is considered to be clinically relevant. This prospective study was conducted to establish the minimum level of change in the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis (BAS) indices that is meaningful for both the patient and the clinician.
Sample size and the detection of correlation--a signal detection account: comment on Kareev (2000) and Juslin and Olsson (2005).	Simulations examined the hypothesis that small samples can provide better grounds for inferring the existence of a population correlation, p, than can large samples. Samples of 5, 7, 10, 15, or 30 data pairs were drawn either from a population with p=0 or from one with p>0. When decision accuracy was assessed independently for each level of the decision criterion, there was a criterion-specific small-sample advantage. For liberal criteria, accuracy was greater for large than for small samples, but for conservative criteria, the opposite result occurred. There was no small-sample advantage when accuracy was measured as the area under a receiver operating characteristic curve or as the posterior probability of a hit. The results show that small-sample advantages can occur, but under limited conditions.
Clinical usefulness of biochemical markers of liver fibrosis in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a severe form of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), and progresses to the end stage of liver disease. Biochemical markers of liver fibrosis are strongly associated with the degree of histological liver fibrosis in patients with chronic liver disease. However, data are few on the usefulness of markers in NAFLD patients. The aim of this study was to identify better noninvasive predictors of hepatic fibrosis, with special focus on markers of liver fibrosis, type VI collagen 7S domain and hyaluronic acid.
Autoimmune thrombocytopenia: flow cytometric determination of platelet-associated autoantibodies against platelet-specific receptors.	Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by antibody-induced platelet destruction. Despite its clinical importance, the diagnosis of ITP is one of exclusion, thus, inevitably associated with potential difficulties. We here describe a feasible diagnostic method using the commonly available technique of flow cytometry. An antigen-specific assay for platelet-associated antibody was developed and tested in 62 adult patients with chronic ITP, 14 patients with thrombocytopenia of decreased production and 60 healthy controls. The method is based on flow cytometric (FCM) detection of autoantibodies reacting with specific platelet receptors immobilized on microbeads. The average fluorescence level in the ITP group calculated as a ratio to normal was 4.07 (range 0.8-31.0), in the non-ITP thrombocytopenic patients 0.9 (range 0.7-1.2), and in the healthy controls 1.0 (range 0.7-1.3). The average assay coefficient of variation was 0.218 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.213, 0.221]. The difference between the ITP patients and both groups was highly significant (P < 0.001), using a stringent non-parametric analysis. A comparison of the FCM assay with the radioactive immunobead assay previously reported on the same cohort of patients showed significant correlation (R2 = 0.71, 95% CI 0.39, 0.53). The overall performance of the FCM assay in discriminating between ITP patients and normals was estimated by the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) plot, showing an area under the curve of 0.96 (maximal value 1.0), with standard error of 0.033. We conclude that the present FCM assay is clinically useful for routine diagnosis and follow-up of ITP.
Diagnostic usefulness of carbohydrate antigen-125 in cancerous and noncancerous peritoneal effusions.	Carbohydrate antigen-125 (CA-125) is a tumor marker that has been used for differential diagnosis of peritoneal malignancies. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the diagnostic usefulness of simultaneous quantification of CA-125 in peritoneal fluid and serum for abdominal cancer cases and noncancer diseases. Noncancer disease group included cirrhotic patients (n=28) and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) patients (n=11). Abdominal cancer group was composed of histologically diagnosed various malignancies (n=10), such as gastric cancer. CA-125 levels were quantified by chemiluminescent enzyme immuno-assay. Diagnostic usefulness tests and receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis were performed for the levels of peritoneal fluid CA-125 (pCA-125) and serum CA-125 (sCA-125), and the ratio of pCA-125 to sCA-125 (p/sCA-125). The sCA-125 levels were significantly higher in noncancer patients than those in the cancer patients, while the pCA-125 levels showed no significant difference between the two groups. Notably, the p/sCA-125 ratio was significantly lower in the noncancer patients than that in the cancer patients. Area under the ROC curve was 0.267 for sCA-125, 0.542 for pCA-125 and 0.831 for p/sCA-125. The accepted cutoff values were the combination of values that gave the greatest diagnostic sensitivity plus specificity. Either sCA-125 or pCA-125 value gave lower diagnostic accuracy, whereas p/sCA-125 value demonstrated a significantly higher diagnostic accuracy (sensitivity-specificity pairs: 0.40-0.33 for sCA-125, 0.60-0.54 for pCA-125, and 0.80-0.72 for p/sCA-125, respectively). Hence, determination of p/sCA-125 improves the biochemical discrimination of abdominal cancerous cases from noncancerous diseases.
A comparison of the Glasgow Coma Scale score to simplified alternative scores for the prediction of traumatic brain injury outcomes.	The 15-point Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) is extensively used in the initial evaluation of traumatic brain injury in emergency department (ED) settings. We hypothesized that the GCS might be unnecessarily complex and that a simpler scoring system might demonstrate similar accuracy in the prediction of traumatic brain injury outcomes.
Doppler tissue analysis of atrial electromechanical coupling in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.	The aim of this study was to: (1) evaluate atrial electromechanical coupling using M-mode Doppler tissue; and (2) test its clinical impact for detecting atrial abnormalities in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF). Using Doppler tissue, the time intervals from the onset of P wave until the backward motions of the right and left atrioventricular rings in the apical 4-chamber view corresponding to the atrial contractions were measured. In paroxysmal AF group, these intervals were significantly longer than in the control group. Using the criteria that an abnormal time interval from the onset of P wave until the backward motion of the left atrioventricular ring is longer than 112 milliseconds, the sensitivity, the specificity, and the positive predictive values for paroxysmal AF are 73%, 93%, and 93%, respectively. This parameter is affected in patients with paroxysmal AF and should be useful for detecting atrial impairment related to paroxysmal AF.
Neurohormonal risk stratification for sudden death and death owing to progressive heart failure in chronic heart failure.	This study tested various neurohormones for prediction of heart failure death (death owing to progressive deterioration of ventricular function; HFD). Moreover, B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) as a predictor of sudden death (SD; as reported previously) and the best predictor of HFD were combined for a simple risk stratification model.
Diagnostic value of sonography in patients with suspected carpal tunnel syndrome: a prospective study.	To determine the diagnostic value of sonography in patients with suspected carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS).
The influence of the progression of secondary hyperparathyroidism on the set point of the parathyroid hormone-calcium curve.	The influence of secondary hyperparathyroidism (2 HPT) on the set point of the parathyroid hormone (PTH)-Ca(2+) curve is controversial. In vitro experiments have shown an increase in the set point. However, clinical studies with hemodialysis patients have provided a variety of results (increases, decreases and no changes in the set point have been reported). The present study was designed to investigate the influence of the progression of 2 HPT on the set point of the PTH-Ca(2+) curve. The PTH-Ca(2+) curve and the expression of parathyroid calcium receptor (CaR mRNA) and vitamin D receptor (VDR mRNA) have been studied in normal rabbits (group I, n=9) and in nephrectomized rabbits (group II, n=18) at two stages after inducing 2 HPT: 2-3 weeks (group IIA) and 5-6 weeks (group IIB). In group I, the set point of the PTH-Ca(2+) curve was 1.63+/-0.03 mM. A progressive hypocalcemia was detected during the evolution of 2 HPT (groups IIA and IIB). Rabbits from group IIA had a significant (P<0.001) decrease in the set point to values of 1.45+/-0.02 mM. However, the set point increased significantly in group IIB (P<0.001) to 1.56+/-0.03 mM. CaR mRNA was similarly decreased in groups IIA (39+/-12%) and IIB (48+/-7%). No changes were detected in VDR mRNA. In conclusion, a reduction in the set point of the PTH-Ca(2+) curve in response to decreased extracellular Ca(2+) was detected in the early phases of 2 HPT. However, with the progression of 2 HPT the set point tended to increase even though extracellular Ca(2+) was markedly decreased. The increase in the set point in the course of 2 HPT seems to be a complex process that cannot be fully explained by changes in parathyroid CaR mRNA or VDR mRNA.
Improved serological differentiation between systemic lupus erythematosus and mixed connective tissue disease by use of an SmD3 peptide-based immunoassay.	Autoantibodies to the Sm antigens are specifically found in 5 to 30% of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) depending on the detection system and the patient group. Several immunoassays designed for research and diagnostic laboratory use have been developed. The autoantigens employed in these tests include purified native proteins, recombinant polypeptides, and synthetic peptides. In the present study, we compared the clinical accuracy of anti-Sm autoantibody assays from commercial suppliers including different conventional enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) systems based on purified Sm antigens, an addressable laser bead assay and a newly developed anti-Sm peptide assay. Although the clinical sensitivity of all assays under investigation was comparable, relatively poor correlations and significant differences in specificity were found with a patient cohort of 150 patients. The sensitivity and specificity were 10 and 94%, respectively, for the anti-Sm ELISA from Euroimmun, 10 and 90%, respectively, for the QuantaLite Sm (INOVA), 12 and 88%, respectively, for the Sm assay in the Varelisa ReCombi ANA profile (Pharmacia Diagnostics), 10 and 94%, respectively, for the QuantaPlex Sm (INOVA), and 12 and 100%, respectively, for the new SmD3 peptide-based ELISA (Varelisa Sm Antibodies). The majority of positive test results within the control groups were found in patients with mixed connective tissue disease. Based on the results, we conclude that the detection of anti-Sm antibodies strongly depends both on the nature of the antigen and on the detection system. Finally, we conclude that the recently identified SmD peptide containing a symmetrical dimethylarginine at position 112 of D3 represents a promising tool for the detection of a highly specific subpopulation of anti-Sm antibodies.
Antibody responses of pigs to defined Erns fragments after infection with classical swine fever virus.	Antibody responses of pigs to defined Erns fragments, after classical swine fever virus (CSFV) infection, were studied by using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Selection of various E(rns) fragments was based on an immunodominant Erns region encompassing three overlapping antigenic regions, amino acids 65 to 145 (Erns(aa)65-145) (AR1), 84 to 160 (Erns(aa)84-160) (AR2), and 109 to 220 (Erns(aa)109-220) (AR3), identified earlier by our group (M. Lin, E. Trottier, J. Pasick, and M. Sabara, J. Biochem., in press). Defined Erns fragments, including AR1, AR2, AR3, Erns(aa)65-160 (AR12), Erns(aa)84-220 (AR23), Erns(aa)65-220 (AR123), Erns(aa)109-145 (the consensus region defined by the three overlapping regions), and Erns(aa)109-160 (a fragment 15 amino acids larger than the consensus region), were expressed in Escherichia coli, purified by nickel chelate affinity chromatography, and used to measure antibody responses in 20 sera serially collected from pigs experimentally infected with CSFV. Based on the optimum cutoffs determined by receiver operating characteristic analysis after testing 238 negative field sera from Canadian sources, all the Erns fragments were capable of distinguishing positive from negative antibody responses with sensitivities ranging between 75 and 90% and specificities ranging between 83.2 and 100%. Detection of antibody responses to refolded Erns(aa)109-145 and Erns(aa)109-160 by ELISA (this study) but not by Western blots (Lin et al., in press) indicated that the epitopes within the consensus region are conformational. When cutoff values were raised to give a specificity of 100%, four Erns fragments (AR2, AR23, Erns(aa)109-145, and Erns(aa)109-160) offered much higher sensitivities (75 to 90%) than those obtained with other fragments (20 to 65%). Erns(aa)109-145 and Erns(aa)109-160 were capable of detecting antibody responses in infected pigs as early as 7 days postinfection. Demonstration of antibody responses to either one of the four fragments can thus be an alternative to use of the full-length protein in ELISA for serological diagnosis of CSFV infection. An advantage of such a test would be its utilization for serological survey in a classical swine fever-free country (e.g., Canada) in biocontainment level 2 laboratories.
Factor II: C activity and uterine artery Doppler evaluation to improve the early prediction of pre-eclampsia on women with gestational hypertension.	To evaluate whether the determination of maternal plasma Factor II:C (FII:C) and mean uterine artery resistance index may be useful to early predict pre-eclampsia in patients with gestational hypertension.
Predictors of prostate cancer evaluated by receiver operating characteristics partial area index: a prospective institutional study.	To our knowledge we introduce the ROC partial area under the curve (AUC) index as a method of evaluating the discriminative power of different prostate cancer predictors. Peripheral zone volume and peripheral zone prostate specific antigen (PSA) density are introduced as potential predictors and compared with other known predictors of prostate cancer.
Is exhaled nitric oxide measurement a useful clinical test in asthma?	Exhaled nitric oxide measurements (FENO) are easy to perform and are repeatable. Given the strong correlations between FENO and bronchial biopsy and induced sputum eosinophilia, as well as airway hyper-responsiveness, FENO may now be advocated as a surrogate for these tests in certain circumstances. They provide the opportunity to assess pathological rather than physiological changes in asthma. This review highlights recent advances in applying this technology to the diagnosis and ongoing assessment of asthma in the clinical and epidemiological settings.
The role of likelihood ratio in clinical diagnosis: applicability in the setting of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.	Despite imperfect clinical information and uncertainty about clinical course and outcome, the clinician's main task is to make reasonable decisions about patient care. The clinical history and physical examination typically provide information that is useful for making a diagnosis; however, we still rely on laboratory and radiologic tests to confirm a diagnosis in most cases. Understanding the operative characteristic of a test is of key importance because it can change the probability that a patient has a disease before the result of a test is known. This operative characteristic, better known as the likelihood ratio (LR), is a global assessment of the information provided by a test. The LR allows calculating the odds that a patient has a disease after a test is performed. In this article, we explain the meaning of the LR, how it works, and the applicability of this tool in the setting of a challenging scenario in clinical practice, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.
The value of residual liver volume as a predictor of hepatic dysfunction and infection after major liver resection.	Major liver resection incurs a risk of postoperative liver dysfunction and infection and there is a lack of objective evidence relating residual liver volume to these complications.
Osteoporosis and fracture risk in women of different ethnic groups.	Osteoporosis and 1-year fracture risk were studied in 197,848 postmenopausal American women from five ethnic groups. Weight explained differences in BMD, except among blacks, who had the highest BMD. One SD decrease in BMD predicted a 50% increased fracture risk in each group. Despite similar relative risks, absolute fracture rates differed.
Clinically and mammographically occult breast lesions on MR images: potential effect of computerized assessment on clinical reading.	To investigate if and how computerized analysis complements characterization of breast lesions with clinical reading at magnetic resonance imaging.
Psychophysical investigation of ganglion cell loss in early glaucoma.	To evaluate ganglion cell loss in early glaucoma using a variety of psychophysical tests and to identify optimal perimetric technique(s) for detection of early glaucomatous visual function loss.
Grey-scale reversed radiographic display in the detection of approximal caries.	Purpose of this study was to determine the influence of grey-scale reversal of digital radiographic images on the detection of proximal caries.
Performance of DIAGNOdent for detection and quantification of smooth-surface caries in primary teeth.	To evaluate the performance of the laser fluorescence device (DIAGNOdent) for detection and quantification of smooth-surface caries lesions in primary teeth.
ROC evaluation of statistical wavelet-based analysis of brain activation in [15O]-H2O PET scans.	This paper presents and evaluates a wavelet-based statistical analysis of PET images for the detection of brain activation areas. Brain regions showing significant activations were obtained by performing Student's t tests in the wavelet domain, reconstructing the final image from only those wavelet coefficients that passed the statistical test at a given significance level, and discarding artifacts introduced during the reconstruction process. Using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves, we have compared this statistical analysis in the wavelet domain to the conventional image-domain Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) method. For obtaining an accurate assessment of sensitivity and specificity, we have simulated realistic single subject [15O]-H2O PET studies with different hyperactivation levels of the thalamic region. The results obtained from an ROC analysis show that the wavelet approach outperforms conventional SPM in identifying brain activation patterns. Using the wavelet method, activation areas detected were closer in size and shape to the region actually activated in the reference image.
Comparison of three optical coherence tomography scanning areas for detection of glaucomatous damage.	Several cross-sectional studies have demonstrated the capability of optical coherence tomography (OCT) to detect glaucomatous changes. OCT enables posterior pole scanning of three regions: macula, peripapillary, and optic nerve head (ONH). This study compared the ability of each region to detect glaucomatous damage.
Evaluation of retinal nerve fiber layer, optic nerve head, and macular thickness measurements for glaucoma detection using optical coherence tomography.	To compare the ability of optical coherence tomography retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL), optic nerve head, and macular thickness parameters to differentiate between healthy eyes and eyes with glaucomatous visual field loss.
Role of hysteroscopy with endometrial biopsy to rule out endometrial cancer in postmenopausal women with abnormal uterine bleeding.	To compare the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasonographic endometrial thickness and outpatient hysteroscopy, to establish the most appropriate exam for the diagnosis of endometrial cancer in postmenopausal women with abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB). The secondary aim was to develop a multivariable approach considering clinical history as an added value for these diagnostic procedures.
Serum amyloid A protein levels as a possible aid in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in children.	Hematological and biochemical tests, including white blood cell count (WBC), C-reactive protein (CRP) and other acute-phase reactants, have been used in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. However, there is controversy among physicians about the value of this practice in children. The objective of our study was to evaluate serum amyloid A protein (SAA) levels in children with confirmed acute appendicitis and to compare the sensitivity and specificity of this marker of inflammation with those for WBC and CRP. A prospective cohort study of 60 children admitted with abdominal pain to rule out appendicitis was used in the study. Of these, 42 underwent surgery, while 18 children who had spontaneous amelioration within 24 h of admission were not operated on and served as controls. WBC and serum SAA and CRP levels were obtained preoperatively. Serum concentrations of the analytes were determined with particle-enhanced immunonephelometric methods. Patients with acute appendicitis had WBC, SAA and CRP levels higher than those of the control group (p<0.001). There was no appendicitis patient with a normal SAA value, while 21.4% of the patients had CRP values within the normal range. The performance of each test was measured by receiver-operating characteristic curves. Area under the curve (AUC) values were 0.849 for WBC, 0.868 for CRP and 0.964 for SAA. The sensitivity and specificity of these methods were 76% and 75% for WBC>10.0 x 10(9) /L, 62% and 94% for CRP>10 mg/L and 86% and 83% for SAA >45.0 mg/L, respectively. Circulating SAA levels have better discriminatory value than WBC or CRP in the assessment of acute appendicitis in children. Thus, this test appears to be of higher value than the current standards of care in the diagnosis of this condition.
Usefulness of ultrasonography in predicting pleural effusions > 500 mL in patients receiving mechanical ventilation.	To assess the accuracy of chest ultrasonography in predicting pleural effusions > 500 mL in patients receiving mechanical ventilation.
A study of the impact of adding HPV types to cervical cancer screening and triage tests.	Use of human papillomavirus (HPV) testing in cervical cancer prevention is increasing rapidly. A DNA test for 13 HPV types that can cause cervical cancer is approved in the United States for co-screening with cytology of women >or=30 years old and for triage of women of all ages with equivocal cytology. However, most infections with HPV are benign. We evaluated trade-offs between specificity and sensitivity for approximately 40 HPV types in predicting cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 3 and cancer in two prospective studies: a population-based screening study that followed 6196 women aged 30-94 years from Costa Rica for 7 years and a triage study that followed 3363 women aged 18-90 years with equivocal cytology in four U.S. centers for 2 years. For both screening and triage, testing for more than about 10 HPV types decreased specificity more than it increased sensitivity. The minimal increases in sensitivity and in negative predictive value achieved by adding HPV types to DNA tests must be weighed against the projected burden to thousands of women falsely labeled as being at high risk of cervical cancer.
ST resolution in a single electrocardiographic lead: a simple and accurate predictor of cardiac mortality in patients with fibrinolytic therapy for acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction.	The extent of ST-segment resolution in the 12-lead electrocardiograph (ECG) obtained early after reperfusion therapy in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (MI) has been shown to predict short- and long-term mortalities. To improve the ease of this method in clinical practice, we sought to evaluate the optimal cutoffs and the prognostic value of ST resolution (STR) measured in a single ECG lead.
Prognostic value of some ovarian reserve tests in poor responders.	The objective of this study was to determine the prognostic value of the basal estradiol (E2) and inhibin-B levels, the antral follicle count (AFC), and the clomiphene citrate challenge test (CCCT) of ovarian response in controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH), in an outcome with normal follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) concentration in the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle.
Prognostic value of ambulatory electrocardiography monitoring in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy.	Performance of ambulatory electrocardiography (AECG) may provide data useful for counseling patients regarding prognosis and for selecting potential patients for defibrillator implantation, but this practice remains controversial.
Construction of the Mandarin version of the International Prostate Symptom Score inventory in assessing lower urinary tract symptoms in a Malaysian population.	The purpose of the present study was to validate the Mandarin version of the International Prostate Symptom Score (Mand-IPSS) in a Malaysian population.
Comparison of quantitative and visual analysis of Tc-99m MIBI scintimammography for detection of primary breast cancer.	Tc-99m MIBI scintimammography (SMM) is known to be a useful diagnostic tool for primary breast cancer. We conducted this study to compare the quantitative and visual analysis for detection of primary breast cancer and also investigated the incremental role of quantitative index of SMM.
Functional diagnosis of coronary stenosis using tissue tracking provides best sensitivity and specificity for left circumflex disease: experience from the MYDISE (myocardial Doppler in stress echocardiography) study.	To evaluate the diagnostic capacity of quantitative analysis of segmental longitudinal myocardial displacement images (tissue tracking, TT) during dobutamine stress echocardiography for the detection of patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).
Appropriateness of a donor liver with respect to macrosteatosis: application of artificial neural networks to US images--initial experience.	To retrospectively compare performance of artificial neural networks (ANNs) applied to ultrasonographic (US) images with that of radiologists for prediction of appropriateness of a donor liver with respect to macrosteatosis before liver transplantation.
Postoperative multidetector computed tomography angiography after aneurysm clipping: comparison with digital subtraction angiography.	To evaluate the usefulness of multidetector computed tomography angiography (MDCTA) as a noninvasive diagnostic modality for the detection of aneurysm remnants after clipping of intracranial aneurysms.
Dynamic subtraction magnetic resonance imaging of cirrhotic liver: assessment of high signal intensity lesions on nonenhanced T1-weighted images.	The purpose of this work was to determine the technical feasibility and value of dynamic subtraction (postcontrast-precontrast) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging for the assessment of hyperintense lesions on precontrast T1-weighted images in the cirrhotic liver.
Comparison of four digital and one conventional radiographic image systems for the chest in a patient study with subsequent system optimization]	Using a patient study to prove the clinical relevance of a comparison of five different radiographic systems for the chest conducted with an anthropomorphic chest phantom. Depending on the results, it was tested whether the performance of a modern digital system with a transparent imaging plate can be improved by changing the post-processing of the image.
Prediction of spontaneous onset of labor at term: the role of cervical length measurement and funneling of internal cervical os detected by transvaginal ultrasonography.	The objective of this study was to examine the values of the cervical length measurement and detection of internal cervical os funneling by transvaginal ultrasonography in the prediction of spontaneous labor within a 7-day period at term. Ninety-three pregnant women were enrolled into this study. All patients were evaluated by transvaginal ultrasonography first at the 37th completed week of gestation and weekly thereafter. Endocervical canal length was measured and the presence of funneling was recorded. The end points were the percentage of patients with a spontaneous onset of labor in the week after these data were recorded. The optimal cutoff values for predicting the onset of spontaneous labor within 7 days were 29.5 mm for cervical length at 37 weeks, 27.5 mm at 38 weeks, 25.5 mm at 39 weeks, and 24.5 mm at 40 weeks of gestation. There was also statistically significant agreement between the presence of the funneling and spontaneous labor within 7 days. Measurement of cervical length and detection of funneling at the internal cervical os by transvaginal ultrasonography might help us to predict the spontaneous onset of labor in a 7-day period, and help clinicians to decide about the time of labor induction in certain complicated pregnancies.
Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value]	What does it mean that a screening test has a sensitivity of 80 % and a specificity of 80 %? What conclusion can be drawn as to the probability of a patient tested positive having the target disorder? Is this probability dependent on the prevalence of the target disorder? These are the questions addressed in the present paper. The classical concepts of sensitivity and specificity are presented as well as the more modern and clinically relevant concepts of the predictive values of a positive and a negative test. The author employs different didactic methods such as 2 x 2 tables, graphical illustrations and natural frequencies for elaborating on these often intermixed concepts in a clear and easily understandable way.
Flow cytometric analysis of in vitro activated basophils, specific IgE and skin tests in the diagnosis of pollen-associated food allergy.	Specific immunoglobulin E (IgE) and commercially available skin prick tests have been demonstrated to be unreliable methods to diagnose pollen-associated food allergy. To evaluate the predictive value of the basophil activation test (BAT) in pollen-associated food allergy, the apple-mediated oral allergy syndrome (OAS) in patients with birch pollinosis was chosen as a representative model.
Testing systems for assessment of negative symptoms in schizophrenia.	To compare methods of measuring negative symptoms, eight rating scales were employed to retrospectively assess and subtype 187 patients with schizophrenia from the Chestnut Lodge Follow-up Study. These included Andreasen's Schedule for Assessment of Negative Symptoms, Carpenter's Criteria for the Deficit Syndrome, Kay and Opler's Positive and Negative Symptom Scale, the scales developed by Krawiecka et al and Crow's modification of them, the Negative Symptom Scale developed by Lewine et al, Pogue-Geile and Harrow's Negative Symptom Scale, and Abrams and Taylor's Emotional Blunting Scale. The overlap and concordance, temporal stability, and predictive validity of these instruments are described. When rated from detailed medical records, the reliability of all scales was fair to good. Despite their inclusion of different items, there were high positive correlations between the scales when used to rate negative symptoms dimensionally. When used to classify individual patients as having the negative or deficit syndrome, however, concordance among criteria was low. Using the broadest criteria (Pogue-Geile and Harrow), 75 (40%) patients were diagnosed as having negative syndrome; the narrowest criteria (Andreasen and Olsen) yielded 11 (6%) diagnoses of negative syndrome. Narrower definitions tended to be subsets of broader ones. Carpenter's Criteria for the Deficit Syndrome focus on primary enduring negative symptoms and show the greatest temporal stability. Broader criteria, which diagnose the deficit or negative syndrome independent of severity of positive symptoms, had the greatest predictive validity.
SAPS II revisited.	To construct and validate an update of the Simplified Acute Physiology Score II (SAPS II) for the evaluation of clinical performance of Intensive Care Units (ICU).
Utility of rapid B-type natriuretic peptide assay for diagnosis of symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus in preterm infants.	In preterm infants, the rapid and accurate determination of the presence of a hemodynamically significant patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) is extremely important, but this is often difficult. Plasma B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) measurement has been reported to be a helpful aid in the diagnosis of hemodynamically significant PDA in preterm infants. The aim of our study was to investigate the usefulness of a rapid BNP assay as a diagnostic marker of symptomatic PDA (sPDA) in preterm infants.
Model parameters estimation when the evoked potential recordings are affected by a random scale factor.	In many situations an important source of the average evoked potentials (EPs) variability is a random scale factor affecting each recording. As a result, the outcome of any EP detection method may be greatly affected. However, using an appropriate probabilistic model these scale factor can be estimated, and the performance of any available detection index improved by data rescaling. In this paper the Maximum Likelihood Estimators of the waveform of the response and the scale factor affecting both background noise and this waveform are obtained. Also, an iterative algorithm for model parameters estimation is presented and its convergence is examined in a simulation study. The Linear Discriminant function is computed using simulated test data in both situations, before and after rescaling of recordings. The performance of these statistics is evaluated by mean of ROC curves.
Risk factors for surgical wound infection among the elderly.	One hundred fifty-seven elderly patients with surgical wound infection were matched on wound classification and date of surgery to non-infected control patients. Factors examined for their association with wound infection included medical history, functional status, behaviour (e.g. smoking), factors predisposing to infection (e.g. results of CBC and urinalysis) and operative factors such as preparation, duration and type of operation. Conditional logistic regression analysis identified factors already known to be risk factors for wound infection at all ages (e.g. type and duration of operation), as well as factors unique to the elderly (e.g. age greater than 70 years and limited mobility).
Acute myocardial infarction in chest pain patients with nondiagnostic ECGs: serial CK-MB sampling in the emergency department. The Emergency Medicine Cardiac Research Group.	This study tested the hypothesis that serial creatine phosphokinase (CK)-MB sampling in the emergency department can identify acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in patients presenting to the ED with chest pain and nondiagnostic ECGs.
The Groningen Longitudinal Glaucoma Study. I. Baseline sensitivity and specificity of the frequency doubling perimeter and the GDx nerve fibre analyser.	To describe the baseline data of a large cohort of patients included for follow-up with perimetry using the frequency doubling technique (FDT) and with quantification of the retinal nerve fibre layer as assessed by GDx, and to calculate the sensitivity and specificity of both devices from these baseline data.
Is plasma cardiotrophin-1 a marker of hypertensive heart disease?	This study was designed to investigate whether plasma concentration of cardiotrophin-1 (CT-1), a cytokine that induces cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and stimulates cardiac fibroblasts, is related to hypertensive heart disease, as defined by the presence of echocardiographically assessed left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH).
Relationship between cerebroplacental Doppler ratio and birth weight in postdates pregnancies.	To explore the relationship between cerebroplacental Doppler impedance index and birth weight in postdates pregnancies, and to evaluate the use of a combination of Doppler parameters and ultrasound biometry in the prediction of large-for-gestational age (LGA) fetuses at 41 weeks of gestation.
Utility of the Chronic Disease Score and Charlson Comorbidity Index as comorbidity measures for use in epidemiologic studies of antibiotic-resistant organisms.	Comorbidity is a known risk factor for antibiotic-resistant bacterial infections. Although aggregate comorbidity measures are useful in epidemiologic research, none of the existing measures was developed for use with this outcome. This study compared the utility of two comorbidity measures, the Charlson Comorbidity Index and the Chronic Disease Score, in assessing the comorbidity-attributable risk of nosocomial infections with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) or vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE). Two case-control studies were conducted at the University of Maryland Medical System in Baltimore, Maryland. Cases were inpatients with a first positive clinical culture of MRSA or VRE at least 48 hours postadmission (July 1, 1998-July 1, 2001). Three inpatient controls were randomly selected per case. The MRSA study included 2,164 patients, and the VRE study included 1,948. The scores' discrimination and calibration were measured by using the c statistic and Hosmer-Lemeshow chi-square test. The Charlson Comorbidity Index (c = 0.653) and Chronic Disease Score (c = 0.608) were similar discriminators of MRSA and VRE (c = 0.670 and c = 0.647, respectively). Calibration of the scores was poor for both outcomes (p < 0.05). A revised comorbidity measure specific to resistant infections would likely provide a better assessment of the comorbidity-attributable risk of antibiotic-resistant infections.
Predicting radiotherapy-induced cardiac perfusion defects.	The purpose of this work is to compare the efficacy of mathematical models in predicting the occurrence of radiotherapy-induced left ventricular perfusion defects assessed using single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The basis of this study is data from 73 left-sided breast/ chestwall patients treated with tangential photon fields. The mathematical models compared were three commonly used parametric models [Lyman normal tissue complication probability (LNTCP), relative serialty (RS), generalized equivalent uniform dose (gEUD)] and a nonparametric model (Linear discriminant analysis--LDA). Data used by the models were the left ventricular dose--volume histograms, or SPECT-based dose-function histograms, and the presence/absence of SPECT perfusion defects 6 months postradiation therapy (21 patients developed defects). For the parametric models, maximum likelihood estimation and F-tests were used to fit the model parameters. The nonparametric LDA model step-wise selected features (volumes/function above dose levels) using a method based on receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis to best separate the groups with and without defects. Optimistic (upper bound) and pessimistic (lower bound) estimates of each model's predictive capability were generated using ROC curves. A higher area under the ROC curve indicates a more accurate model (a model that is always accurate has area = 1). The areas under these curves for different models were used to statistically test for differences between them. Pessimistic estimates of areas under the ROC curve using dose-volume histogram/ dose-function histogram inputs, in order of increasing prediction accuracy, were LNTCP (0.79/0.75), RS (0.80/0.77), gEUD (0.81/0.78), and LDA (0.84/0.86). Only the LDA model benefited from SPECT-based regional functional information. In general, the LDA model was statistically superior to the parametric models. The LDA model selected as features the left ventricular volumes above approximately 23 Gy (V23), essentially volume in field, and 33 Gy (V33), as best separating the groups with and without defects. In conclusion, the nonparametric LDA model appears to be a more accurate predictor of radiotherapy-induced left ventricular perfusion defects than commonly used parametric models.
Is thermal scanner losing its bite in mass screening of fever due to SARS?	Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is a highly infectious disease caused by a coronavirus. Screening to detect a potential SARS infected person plays an important role in preventing the spread of SARS. The use of infrared thermal imaging cameras has been proposed as a noninvasive, speedy, cost effective and fairly accurate means for mass blind screening of potential SARS infected persons. Infrared thermography provides a digital image showing temperature patterns. This has been previously utilized in the detection of inflammation and nerve dysfunctions. It is believed that IR cameras can potentially be used to detect subjects with fever, the cardinal symptom of SARS, and avian influenza. The accuracy of the infrared system can, however, be affected by human, environmental, and equipment variables. It is also limited by the fact that the thermal imager measures the skin temperature and not the core body temperature. As known, the body determines a temperature as its so-called "set point" at any one time during the body temperature regulation. Fever happens if the hypothalamus detects pyrogens and then raises the set point. The time course of a typical fever can be divided into three stages. When the fever initiates, the body attempts to raise its temperature but vasoconstriction occurs to prevent heat loss through the skin. With this reason, some individuals at this stage of fever (at the rising slope and immediately after fever begins or falling slope after the fever breaks) will not be detected by the scanner if it is not designed to detect subject at the plateau of the fever (with her/his high core temperature) in particular. This paper aims to study the effectiveness of infrared systems for its application in mass blind screening to detect subjects with elevated body temperature. For this application, it is critical for thermal imagers to be able to identify febrile from normal subjects accurately. Minimizing the number of false positive and false negative cases, improves the efficiency of the screening stations. False negative results should be avoided at all costs, as letting a SARS infected person through the screening process may result in potentially catastrophic results. Various statistical methods such as linear regression, Receiver Operating Characteristics analysis, and neural networks based classification were used to analyze the temperature data collected from various sites on the face on both the frontal and side profiles. Two important conclusions were drawn from the analysis: the best region on the face to obtain temperature readings and the optimal preset threshold temperature for the thermal imager. To conclude, the current research application will remain an interest and useful for reference by both local and overseas manufacturers of thermal scanners, users, and various government and private establishments. As elevation of body temperature is a common presenting symptom for many illnesses including infectious diseases, thermal imagers are useful tools for mass screening of body temperature not only for SARS but also during other public health crisis where widespread transmission of infection is a concern.
PSSM-based prediction of DNA binding sites in proteins.	Detection of DNA-binding sites in proteins is of enormous interest for technologies targeting gene regulation and manipulation. We have previously shown that a residue and its sequence neighbor information can be used to predict DNA-binding candidates in a protein sequence. This sequence-based prediction method is applicable even if no sequence homology with a previously known DNA-binding protein is observed. Here we implement a neural network based algorithm to utilize evolutionary information of amino acid sequences in terms of their position specific scoring matrices (PSSMs) for a better prediction of DNA-binding sites.
On the predictability of epileptic seizures.	An important issue in epileptology is the question whether information extracted from the EEG of epilepsy patients can be used for the prediction of seizures. Several studies have claimed evidence for the existence of a pre-seizure state that can be detected using different characterizing measures. In this paper, we evaluate the predictability of seizures by comparing the predictive performance of a variety of univariate and bivariate measures comprising both linear and non-linear approaches.
Gene-expression profiles to predict distant metastasis of lymph-node-negative primary breast cancer.	Genome-wide measures of gene expression can identify patterns of gene activity that subclassify tumours and might provide a better means than is currently available for individual risk assessment in patients with lymph-node-negative breast cancer.
Distal tibia areal bone mineral density: use in detecting low aBMD of the hip in young women.	Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) is a primary clinical tool for identification of adults with low areal bone mineral density (aBMD) and who are at increased risk for future osteoporosis and fragility fractures. Procedures for several aBMD scans of clinical interest might be limited by artifact, inaccessible anatomical regions, and positioning errors. Sites for scanning that overcome these limitations need further investigation for application to large-scale screening and relevance to clinical decisions regarding diagnosis and treatment. In this study, 146 women (mean +/- SE age = 20.1 +/- 0.1 yr, height = 163.3 +/- 0.2 cm, weight = 60.0 +/- 0.2 kg) underwent DXA of the total body (TB) and right and left total proximal femurs (TPF), total forearms (TF), and distal tibiae (DT). Osteopenia was identified in 24 women. Areal BMD was positively related among all measurement sites (r = 0.55-0.81, all p < 0.001). Total body, TF, and DT aBMD each displayed low sensitivity (0.29-0.33) and high specificity (0.95-0.98) to detect osteopenia of the TPF. Addition of TB fat-free mass slightly enhanced the predictive value of DT aBMD. Overall, DT aBMD can discriminate between osteopenic and normal subjects with comparable accuracy to TB or TF aBMD.
Age-related decline in bone mass measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry and quantitative ultrasound in a population-based sample of both sexes: identification of useful ultrasound thresholds for osteoporosis screening.	Quantitative ultrasound (QUS) can be used as a screening tool for low bone mineral density (BMD), but clinical guidelines have not been set. The aim of this population-based, cross-sectional study was to compare age-related changes in bone mass measured by QUS (Lunar, Achilles Plus) and dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) in a random sample of 1630 individuals (1041 females, 589 males) 30-85 yr of age. Individuals with DXA T-scores < or =-2.5 at the femoral neck or total hip were identified and receiver operating curves (ROCs) were used to calculate cutoff points for QUS. Sensitivity, specificity, and kappa statistics were calculated. Age-related bone loss was significantly larger with QUS than DXA at all sites in women. For men, the curves were similar for QUS and DXA in the hip. Similar correlations were found between QUS and DXA in different age groups of both sexes (0.36-0.60). For women aged 50-65 yr, a QUS T-score >-1.0 was found to be the most applicable for identifying normal BMD. In the 70-85 yr age group, a T-score <-2.5 for women and a T-score <-0.5 for men seemed reasonable cutoffs for identifying normal BMD (sensitivity: 86-93%; specificity: 28-44%; discordance: 33-73%). Calcaneal QUS cannot be used for the diagnosis of osteoporosis according to WHO criteria, but it can be of use to exclude osteoporosis in 30-40% of our cases.
Correlation of IgA, IgM and IgG antibody-detecting assays based on filamentous haemagglutinin, pertussis toxin and Bordetella pertussis sonicate in a strictly adult population.	Pertussis diagnosis among adults is primarily based on serology. In this study, receiver operation characteristics (ROC) analysis was utilized to evaluate three IgA, IgM and IgG ELISAs based on B. pertussis whole-cell sonicate (WC), pertussis toxin (PT), or combined PT-filamentous haemagglutinin (FHA) antigens in a healthy adult population and in adults suffering from symptoms consistent with pertussis. The assays were compared to a PT and FHA reference ELISA. The reference assay showed high correlation with PT- and PT-FHA-based ELISAs but low correlation was found with the WC-based ELISA. However, ROC analysis indicated that all the assays enabled fine differentiation between healthy subjects and subjects suffering from symptoms suggestive of pertussis. The WC IgA ELISA showed the best diagnostic performance [highest specificity (98.8%) with highest sensitivity (53.8%)]. We conclude that despite a low correlation between the various assays they all carry good diagnostic capability for an adult population.
Platelet size deviation width, platelet large cell ratio, and mean platelet volume have sufficient sensitivity and specificity in the diagnosis of immune thrombocytopenia.	We investigated the significance of the platelet indices, mean platelet volume (MPV), platelet size deviation width (PDW), and platelet-large cell ratio (P-LCR), in the diagnosis of thrombocytopenia by comparing these levels in 40 patients with hypo-productive thrombocytopenia (aplastic anaemia; AA) and 39 patients with hyper-destructive thrombocytopenia (immune thrombo-cytopenia; ITP). The sensitivity and specificity of platelet indices to make a diagnosis of ITP were also compared. All platelet indices were significantly higher in ITP than in AA, and platelet indices showed sufficient sensitivity and specificity. The area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver operating characteristics curve of platelet indices was large enough to enable the diagnosis of ITP. P-LCR and PDW had the largest AUCs, which indicated that these values were very reliable for immune thrombocytopenia. Our results suggest that these indices provide clinical information about the underlying conditions of thrombocytopenia. More attention should be paid to these indices in the diagnosis of thrombocytopenia.
Ejection fraction velocity ratio as an indicator of aortic stenosis severity.	Despite the widespread use of the continuity equation in the estimation of aortic valve area (AVA) in patients with aortic stenosis, it is subject to errors, time consuming, and can be technically demanding. As such, simpler methods of assessing aortic stenosis severity have been pursued.
Cutoff point separating affected and unaffected familial hypercholesterolemic patients validated by LDL-receptor gene mutants.	Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) results from low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor gene mutations. Heterozygotes have twice normal LDL-cholesterol concentrations in early childhood, and experience early myocardial infarction. We demonstrated bimodal cholesterol frequency distributions, independently confirming existence of an identifiable hypercholesterolemic subpopulation. We assayed blood lipids in 181 FH patients genetically diagnosed and 100 unaffected relatives. Receiver operating characteristics curves were constructed. Total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol concentrations showed bimodality. A total cholesterol cutoff of 225 mg/dl produced results agreeing with DNA testing (specificity, 98.5%; sensitivity, 99.4%). An LDL-cholesterol cutoff of 161-163 mg/dl produced 98.5% specificity and 98.3% sensitivity. Areas under curves were 0.9826 +/- 0.0058 for total cholesterol, and 0.9852 +/- 0.0043 for LDL-cholesterol. In conclusion, we define total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol levels of 225 and 160 mg/dl, respectively, as cutoff points of normal subjects and FH patients.
Diagnosis of pulmonary embolism: ventilation perfusion scintigraphy versus helical computed tomography pulmonary angiography.	The present study compared the accuracy of ventilation perfusion scintigraphy (VQS) and CT pulmonary angiography (CTPA) for the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism. This was a prospective observational study of 112 patients with suspected pulmonary embolism (PE) who could be studied with both investigations within 24 h. Results were compared to final diagnosis at completion of 6-month follow up, using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Pulmonary embolism was diagnosed in 27 referred patients (24%). The sensitivity and specificity of VQS and CTPA were similar to that reported from the literature. A normal VQ scan had the highest negative predictive value (100%), while a high-probability VQ scan had the highest positive predictive value (92%). There was no overall difference (area under the ROC curve (AUC)) between VQS (AUC (95% CI) = 0.82 (0.75,0.89)) and CTPA (AUC = 0.88 (0.81,0.94)) for the diagnosis of PE. Among patients with abnormal chest X-rays, CTPA (AUC 0.90 (0.83,0.97)) appeared somewhat better than VQS (AUC 0.78 (0.68,0.88)) but this difference did not reach statistical significance. In this instance, CTPA is at least as accurate as VQS and may provide an opportunity to make alternative diagnoses.
Is the cutoff to define remission on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression too high?	The Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD) is the most frequently used measure of outcome in antidepressant efficacy trials. More than a decade ago, a consensus panel recommended that remission be defined on the 17-item version of the HRSD as a cutoff <or=7. This recommendation was accompanied by a call for research to validate this cutoff value; however, little research in this area has been performed since then. The goal of the present study was to compare the validity of different HRSD cutoffs for defining remission. Three hundred three depressed psychiatric outpatients were rated on the 17-item HRSD, the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) scale, and the Standardized Clinical Outcome Rating for Depression, an index of DSM-IV remission status. We examined the sensitivity, specificity, and overall classification rate of the HRSD for identifying a broad and narrow interpretation of the DSM-IV definition of remission, and the association between the breadth of the definition of remission on the HRSD and self-report ratings of global psychosocial functioning and quality of life. Based on a narrow definition of DSM-IV remission, which requires an absence of clinically significant symptoms of depression, the optimal 17-item HRSD cutoff was <or=2. Compared with patients scoring 3 through 7 on the HRSD, those who scored 0 to 2 reported significantly less psychosocial impairment and better quality of life. Our results thus support the use of a lower cutoff on the HRSD than has been traditionally used to define remission.
Pulse wave velocity predicts cardiovascular mortality: findings from the Hawaii-Los Angeles-Hiroshima study.	Arterial stiffness measurements, generally from pulse wave velocity (PWV), are widely used with little knowledge of their relationship to long-term cardiovascular mortality in general populations.
To smooth or not to smooth? ROC analysis of perfusion fMRI data.	Blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) contrast has been widely used for visualizing regional neural activation. Temporal filtering and parameter estimation algorithms are generally used to account for the intrinsic temporal autocorrelation present in BOLD data. Arterial spin labeling perfusion imaging is an emerging methodology for visualizing regional brain function both at rest and during activation. Perfusion contrast manifests different noise properties compared with BOLD contrast, represented by the even distribution of noise power and spatial coherence across the frequency spectrum. Consequently, different strategies are expected to be employed in the statistical analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data based on perfusion contrast. In this study, the effect of different analysis methods upon signal detection efficacy, as assessed by receiver operator characteristic (ROC) measures, was examined for perfusion fMRI data. Simulated foci of neural activity of varying amplitude and spatial extent were added to resting perfusion data, and the accuracy of each analysis was evaluated by comparing the results with the known distribution of pseudo-activation. In contrast to the BOLD fMRI, temporal smoothing or filtering reduces the power of perfusion fMRI data analyses whereas spatial smoothing is beneficial to the efficacy of analyses.
Does T2-weighted MR imaging improve preoperative detection of malignant hepatic tumors? Observer performance study in 49 surgically proven cases.	The purpose of our study was to determine whether or not the addition of T2-weighted fast spin-echo (SE) imaging to gadolinium-enhanced spoiled gradient-recalled-echo (GRE) imaging improves the observer performance in the preoperative detection of malignant hepatic tumors. Gadolinium-enhanced GRE and fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast SE images obtained in 49 patients with 82 surgically confirmed malignant hepatic tumors (40 hepatocellular carcinomas and 42 metastases) were retrospectively reviewed by three independent off-site observers. In the random review of images, gadolinium-enhanced GRE images were reviewed first; thereafter, T2-weighted fast SE images were added for combined review. Observer performance was evaluated with the McNemar's test and receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. For gadolinium-enhanced GRE images alone vs. combined images, sensitivities for detection were 78% vs. 79% for hepatocellular carcinomas (P>.05), 67% vs. 71% for metastases (P<.05) and 72% vs. 75% for tumors overall (P<.05), respectively. The Az values were 0.892 vs. 0.889 in hepatocellular carcinomas (P>.05), 0.797 vs. 0.828 in metastases (P<.05) and 0.839 vs. 0.846 in tumors overall (P>.05), respectively. Our results showed that the addition of T2-weighted fast SE imaging to gadolinium-enhanced GRE imaging improved the observer performance in the detection of metastases.
Serum tumor necrosis factor alpha receptors p55/p75 ratio and ovarian cancer detection.	Early ovarian cancer detection is still very difficult and patients are mostly in advanced stages, with obvious influence on poor prognosis.
Exclusion of venous thromboembolism: evaluation of D-Dimer PLUS for the quantitative determination of D-dimer.	The objective of this study was to evaluate if D-Dimer PLUS (Dade Behring, USA), a rapid fully automated assay, could be used as an initial screening test in the diagnosis of venous thromboembolism (VTE). Samples from 274 consecutive symptomatic patients with suspected pulmonary embolism (n=229; 79% outpatients, 21% inpatients), deep venous thrombosis (n=37; 84% outpatients, 16% inpatients) or suspected for both complications (n=8) were tested with this D-dimer assay with a Sysmex CA-1500 Coagulation Analyzer. Clinical probability for pulmonary embolism (PE) or deep venous thrombosis (DVT) was staged according to a pretest risk score proposed by Wells. Final diagnosis of PE and/or DVT was established by spiral-computed tomography of the pulmonary arteries or compression ultrasonography, respectively. PE was diagnosed in 13.5% of the patients, whereas DVT was confirmed in 17.7% of the patients. The optimal cut-off value for exclusion of venous thromboembolism was 130 mug/l, and sensitivity, specificity and negative predictive value (NPV) were 95.0% (95% CI: 92.4-97.6), 30.4% (95% CI: 25.0-35.8) and 97.2% (95% CI: 95.2-99.2), respectively. In fact, two patient with PE were missed using D-Dimer PLUS; both cases were outpatients. In conclusion, this assay appears to be safe when implemented in an algorithm based on clinical assessment, D-dimer concentration, and radiological diagnostic techniques to stratify the risk for PE or DVT. However, higher sensitivities and negative predictive values were claimed in the scarce published reports for the D-Dimer PLUS assay than found in this study.
A comparison of the content-, construct- and predictive validity of the cigarette dependence scale and the Fagerstrm test for nicotine dependence.	Research showed that the widely used Fagerstrom test for nicotine dependence (FTND) does not cover important aspects of dependence. A new test, the cigarette dependence scale (CDS-12), covers the main elements in DSM-IV and ICD-10 definitions of dependence. We compared the psychometrics of CDS-12, FTND, and CDS-5 and the heaviness of smoking index (HSI), which are short versions of CDS-12 and FTND, respectively.
Ventilation-perfusion scanning and helical CT in suspected pulmonary embolism: meta-analysis of diagnostic performance.	To perform meta-analysis of literature about the role of helical computed tomography (CT) and ventilation-perfusion (V-P) scanning in detection of acute pulmonary embolism (PE) by using summary receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.
Chest radiography with a digital flat-panel detector: experimental receiver operating characteristic analysis.	To evaluate the influence of different detector radiation doses and peak kilovoltage settings on diagnostic performance and radiation dose at posteroanterior (PA) chest radiography performed with an amorphous silicon flat-panel detector (FPD).
Correlation of proton MR spectroscopic imaging with gleason score based on step-section pathologic analysis after radical prostatectomy.	To determine whether hydrogen 1 magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopic imaging can be used to predict aggressiveness of prostate cancer.
Plasma bikunin as a favorable prognostic factor in ovarian cancer.	Bikunin is a multifunctional glycoprotein, which mediates suppression of tumor cell invasion and metastasis. The measurement of bikunin levels in the tissue of patients with malignant diseases has been introduced as a new and simple diagnostic tool for the evaluation of prognosis. The high bikunin expression in ovarian cancer tissue would enable the use of soluble bikunin protein present in the circulation of ovarian cancer patients as a biomarker of disease.
Diagnosis of middle cerebral artery spasm by determination of flow velocity and the Lindegaard index with transcranial color Doppler sonography]	Recent reports have demonstrated the high utility of transcranial color-coded duplex sonography (TCCS) in the diagnosis of advanced spasm of the middle cerebral artery, whereas its accuracy in the diagnosis of mild vasospasm is reported to be lower. Relation of blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) to that in the extracranial internal carotid artery (VMCA/VICA index) is recommended as being helpful in the diagnosis of vasospasm (the so called Lindegaard Index). Nevertheless, the exact diagnostic value of this index using the TCCS method remains to be established. The purpose of this study is to estimate the accuracy of TCCS in the diagnosis of MCA vasospasm, as based on the VMCA/VICA index.
Survival model predictive accuracy and ROC curves.	The predictive accuracy of a survival model can be summarized using extensions of the proportion of variation explained by the model, or R2, commonly used for continuous response models, or using extensions of sensitivity and specificity, which are commonly used for binary response models. In this article we propose new time-dependent accuracy summaries based on time-specific versions of sensitivity and specificity calculated over risk sets. We connect the accuracy summaries to a previously proposed global concordance measure, which is a variant of Kendall's tau. In addition, we show how standard Cox regression output can be used to obtain estimates of time-dependent sensitivity and specificity, and time-dependent receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Semiparametric estimation methods appropriate for both proportional and nonproportional hazards data are introduced, evaluated in simulations, and illustrated using two familiar survival data sets.
Assessing accuracy of mammography in the presence of verification bias and intrareader correlation.	The performance of a medical diagnostic test is often evaluated by comparing the outcome of the test to the patient's true disease state. Receiver operating characteristic analysis may then be used to summarize test accuracy. However, such analysis may encounter several complications in actual practice. One complication is verification bias, i.e., gold standard assessment of disease status may only be partially available and the probability of ascertainment of disease may depend on both the test result and characteristics of the subject. A second issue is that tests interpreted by the same rater may not be independent. Using estimating equations, we generalize previous methods that address these problems. We contrast the performance of alternative estimators of accuracy using robust sandwich variance estimators to permit valid asymptotic inference. We suggest that in the context of an observational cohort study where rich covariate information is available, a weighted estimating equations approach may be preferable for its robustness against model misspecification. We apply the methodology to mammography as performed by community radiologists.
The prognostic use of right heart catheterization data in patients with advanced heart failure: how relevant are invasive procedures in the risk stratification of advanced heart failure in the era of neurohormones?	Right heart catheterization long has been a routine investigation in advanced heart failure, and its measurements have been linked variably to prognosis. However, in the modern era, newer potential markers of prognosis are coming to light. This study reconsiders the use of right heart catheterization data and compares their use to that of N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), a neurohormone linked with prognosis in chronic heart failure.
Evaluation of clinical methods for diagnosing bacterial vaginosis.	To determine whether the current clinical criteria for diagnosing bacterial vaginosis can be simplified by using 2 clinical criteria rather than the standard 3 of 4 criteria (Amsel's criteria).
Performance of screening questionnaires and risk scores for undiagnosed diabetes: the KORA Survey 2000.	Validation of published screening questionnaires and risk scores for undiagnosed diabetes has typically not been performed in independent population samples.
Pulse oximetry as a potential screening tool for lower extremity arterial disease in asymptomatic patients with diabetes mellitus.	Lower extremity arterial disease (LEAD) is common and underdiagnosed in patients with diabetes mellitus and is associated with higher total mortality.
Meta-analysis: test performance of ultrasonography for giant-cell arteritis.	Giant-cell arteritis is a diagnostic challenge.
Discordance analysis characteristics as a new method to compare the diagnostic accuracy of tests: example of complexed versus total prostate-specific antigen.	ROC curve analysis is used to compare the overall diagnostic accuracy of tests, but its application to subgroups selected by a concentration range of only one marker may show severe biases. We developed a new approach, which we have named discordance analysis characteristics (DAC).
Quantified aneurysm shape and rupture risk.	The authors investigated whether quantified shape or size indices could better discriminate between ruptured and unruptured aneurysms.
Ultrasonographic changes of major salivary glands in primary Sjogren's syndrome. Diagnostic value of a novel scoring system.	To reveal typical ultrasonographic (US) changes in major salivary glands associated with Sjogren's syndrome (SS) and to determine the diagnostic value of a novel US scoring system.
A concordance study of three electrophysiological measures in schizophrenia.	The authors evaluated concordance rates among three electrophysiological measures in patients with schizophrenia, nonschizophrenic first-degree relatives of schizophrenia patients, and healthy comparison subjects. The purpose of the study was to provide data for defining a common endophenotype for genetic studies of schizophrenia and for improving the criteria for diagnosis.
The Major Depression Inventory versus Schedules for Clinical Assessment in Neuropsychiatry in a population sample.	This study examined the association between the Major Depression Inventory (MDI) and the Schedules for Clinical Assessment in Neuropsychiatry (SCAN).
A measure of neurobehavioral functioning after coma. Part I: Theory, reliability, and validity of Disorders of Consciousness Scale.	This is longitudinal validation study describes the psychometric properties of the Disorders of Consciousness Scale (DOCS). This is Part I of a two-part series. Part II illustrates and describes the clinical and scientific implementation of the DOCS measure. The study was conducted at one intensive care unit, two acute rehabilitation hospitals, and one long-term acute chronic care hospital. Participants were unconscious after severe brain injury (BI). We conducted interrater reliability analyses using ratings from interdisciplinary pairs. Results indicated a higher-than-expected level of agreement and no significant difference between any pairs ( chi-square = 8(5df), p = 0.15) (df = degrees of freedom). Examinations of ratings by discipline groups indicated that the DOCS is impacted minimally by discipline. Validity analyses demonstrate that 23 of 34 test stimuli remain stable over time with no floor or ceiling effect. DOCS measures obtained within 94 days of injury predicted recovery of consciousness up to 1 year after injury (c-indices of 0.70 and 0.86). Positive (0.71) and negative (0.68) predictive values indicate that the DOCS predicts recovery and lack of recovery. Twenty-three of the DOCS test stimuli produce a reliable, valid, and stable measure of neurobehavioral recovery after severe BI that predicts recovery and lack of recovery of consciousness 1 year after injury.
Identification of chronic hepatitis B patients without significant liver fibrosis by a simple noninvasive predictive model.	Histological assessment of liver fibrosis is important in the management of chronic hepatitis B (CHB) infection but poorly accepted by patients because of its invasiveness. The aim of this study was to develop a noninvasive model to assess liver fibrosis in CHB patients using clinical and routine laboratory data.
Comparison of macular and peripapillary measurements for the detection of glaucoma: an optical coherence tomography study.	To evaluate macular nerve fiber layer (NFL) thickness in glaucomatous damage by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and to compare its discriminating power for glaucoma and glaucoma suspects with that of total macular thickness and peripapillary NFL thickness.
Evaluation of interferon-gamma, interferon-gamma-inducing cytokines, and interferon-gamma-inducible chemokines in tuberculous pleural effusions.	Tuberculous and malignant pleural effusions are representative of lymphocytic pleural effusions. In tuberculous pleurisy, especially, T-helper type 1 (Th1) cytokines are dominant, containing, for example, high concentrations of interferon (IFN)-gamma. We focused on cytokines that induce expression of IFN-gamma and Th1 cell-specific CXC chemokines induced by IFN-gamma. We also evaluated the diagnostic utility of these markers in tuberculous pleural effusions. Forty-three patients with pleural effusions (11 with tuberculous pleuritis, 32 with malignant pleuritis) were studied. We measured the pleural concentrations of IFN-gamma, IFN-gamma-inducing cytokines (interleukin IL-12 and IL-18), and IFN-gamma-inducible chemokines (interferon-gamma-inducible protein of 10-kD [IP-10], monokine induced by interferon-gamma [Mig], and interferon-inducible T-cell alpha chemoattractant [I-TAC]). Our results demonstrate that the concentrations of IFN-gamma, IFN-gamma-inducing cytokines, and IFN-gamma-inducible chemokines were all higher in tuberculous pleural effusions than in malignant pleural effusions. Also, IFN-gamma was significantly correlated with IL-12, Mig, and I-TAC. Moreover, receiver-operator-characteristic (ROC) analysis demonstrated that IFN-gamma produced a greater area under the ROC curve than any other factor. We conclude that the concentrations of IFN-gamma, cytokines that induce expression of IFN-gamma, and chemokines induced by IFN-gamma in tuberculous pleural effusion were all increased. The Th1 chemokines we examined, especially IP-10, are comparable to IFN-gamma as diagnostic markers of tuberculous and malignant pleural effusions, although IFN-gamma is the most valuable.
Pelvic Organ Support Study (POSST): the distribution, clinical definition, and epidemiologic condition of pelvic organ support defects.	The purpose of this study was to describe the distribution of pelvic organ support in a gynecologic clinic population to define the clinical disease state of pelvic organ prolapse and to analyze its epidemiologic condition.
Acute poststernotomy mediastinitis managed with debridement and closed-drainage aspiration: factors associated with death in the intensive care unit.	The purpose of the study is to describe an intensive care unit's experience in the treatment of poststernotomy mediastinitis and to identify factors associated with intensive care unit death.
The relationship between self-reported difficulty with hearing in the worse ear and the better ear.	To investigate the relationship of self-reported hearing difficulty with hearing in the worse ear and the better ear at 1 and 4 kHz.
Serological diagnosis of infectious mononucleosis by chemiluminescent immunoassay using capsid antigen p18 of Epstein-Barr virus.	Infectious mononucleosis is the common clinical manifestation of primary Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection in young children. We evaluated a chemiluminescent immunoassay method for the determination of serum anti-viral capsid antigen IgM antibody and its clinical value in the diagnosis of infectious mononucleosis.
Characterization of oxidative stress status by evaluation of reactive oxygen species levels in whole semen and isolated spermatozoa.	We defined the basal levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in normal donors in neat (whole unprocessed) semen specimens, and in mature and immature spermatozoa isolated by a double-density gradient technique. In addition, we demonstrated that the ROS levels were significantly lower in neat semen compared with washed spermatozoa. The reference values of ROS in neat semen and mature spermatozoa can be used to define the pathologic levels of ROS in infertile men and may guide in therapeutic interventions.
Ultrasonic vibration dectection with wavelets: preliminary results.	Several arterial disorders are known to cause systolic audio vibrations in tissue: they include stenoses, vasospasm, aneurysms, bleeds and arteriovenous fistulas. High-amplitude vibrations can be discovered with conventional Doppler ultrasound (US) instruments; however, differentiating brief, low-amplitude vibrations from other nonstationary echo sources is difficult. Further, characterizing the frequency and amplitude of vibrations is not feasible with conventional Doppler US. The automated detection and estimation of both the frequency and amplitude of vibrations with durations less than 100 ms and amplitudes of a micrometer or less have remained a signal-processing challenge. These vibrations may be associated with both nonstationary colored noise and strong low-frequency clutter. The normalized continuous Morlet wavelet power-spectrum analysis of quadrature Doppler echoes, followed by a binary hypothesis test for noise, results in simulated detection rates above 99.9%, with 0.1% false alarms for signal-on signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) as low as one. Two clinical examples are included.
Usefulness of single-photon emission computed tomography of thallium-201 uptake after dipyridamole infusion for detection of coronary artery disease.	The diagnostic performance of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and planar imaging of thallium-201 uptake for the detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) was compared in 79 patients who underwent both dipyridamole thallium-201 scintigraphy and coronary angiography. Clinical subgroups were assigned by severity of CAD, presence of a prior myocardial infarction and the number of narrowed coronary arteries. The overall detection of CAD was 89% for SPECT and 67% for planar (p less than 0.001). For the anterior vascular territory, sensitivities for SPECT and planar imaging were 69 and 44% (p less than 0.01), respectively; for the posterior vascular territory, sensitivities were 80 and 54% (p less than 0.01). Receiver-operating characteristic analysis, using a 5-point evaluation scale, was performed for the anterior and posterior vascular territories. Receiver-operating characteristic curves generated for SPECT and planar studies demonstrated improved diagnostic performance by SPECT in the anterior vascular territory, but showed similar performance in the posterior territory because of lower SPECT specificity despite higher sensitivity at clinically relevant decision thresholds. In each clinical subgroup of patients, the detection of CAD by SPECT was significantly superior to that by planar imaging, regardless of the severity of stenosis or the number of significantly narrowed coronary arteries, or whether a myocardial infarction was present. Thus, SPECT thallium-201 scintigraphy is an important and necessary clinical tool for detecting CAD after dipyridamole infusion.
Diagnostic ability of B-type natriuretic peptide and impedance cardiography: testing to identify left ventricular dysfunction in hypertensive patients.	Patients with hypertension are at high risk for the development of left ventricular dysfunction (LVD). Echocardiography is considered to be the gold standard for diagnosis of LVD; but its cost, complexity, and availability prevents its use for frequent evaluation. Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and N-terminal BNP (NT-BNP) can identify heart failure in dyspneic patients. Impedance cardiography (ICG) is a noninvasive method of measuring hemodynamic and electromechanical timing parameters. The objective of this study was to determine the ability of BNP, NT-BNP, and ICG to detect the presence of LVD in patients with hypertension.
Limited ability of SOFA and MOD scores to discriminate outcome: a prospective evaluation in 1,436 patients.	The multiple organ dysfunction (MOD) score and sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) score are measures of organ dysfunction and have been validated based on the association of these scores with mortality. We sought to compare the performance of the SOFA and MOD scores in a large cohort of consecutive multisystem intensive care unit (ICU) patients.
Improving screening for dementia in the elderly using, Mini-Mental State Examination subscores, Benton's Visual Retention Test, and Isaacs' Set Test.	The Mini-Mental State Examination score is often used as a screening test for dementia. We studied its properties for a population of French community residents, using a sample of 2,792 randomly selected subjects in Gironde, France. When the traditional cutoff point 23-24 was used, we observed a sensitivity of 1.0 and a specificity of 0.77. We sought to increase the specificity of the test, while keeping sensitivity at 1.0, with the use of logistic regression analysis. We found (1) a specificity of 0.81 when "recall three objects" and "orientation to time" were added to the Mini-Mental State Examination score; (2) a specificity of 0.90 when Benton's Visual Retention Tests and Isaacs' Set Test of Verbal Fluency were added to the Mini-Mental State Examination score and subscores; and (3) no improvement in specificity when age and educational level were included in the analyses.
Weaning prediction: esophageal pressure monitoring complements readiness testing.	Several variables are recommended for identifying if a patient is ready for a trial of weaning from mechanical ventilation, but there is no agreement as to whether monitoring any variable during the trial enhances patient management. To determine whether repeated measurements of esophageal pressure throughout a trial are more reliable than measurements of esophageal pressure or frequency-to-VT ratio during the first minute of the trial, we studied 60 patients. A trend index that quantified esophageal pressure swings over time was more reliable than the first-minute measurements: sensitivity, 0.91, and specificity, 0.89. Area under receiver operating characteristic curve for trend index (0.94) was greater than for first-minute measurement of esophageal pressure (0.44, p < 0.05) and tended to be greater than that for frequency-to-VT ratio (0.78, p = 0.13). The likelihood ratio was highest for the trend index (8.2, p < 0.05). The advantage of the trend index may be related to the progressive increase in esophageal pressure throughout a failed weaning trial, whereas breathing pattern changed little after 2 minutes of spontaneous breathing. In conclusion, continuous monitoring of esophageal pressure swings during a spontaneous breathing trial provides additional guidance in patient management over tests used for deciding when to initiate weaning.
Digital radiology with photostimulable image plates and conventional radiology in the study of the interstitial pathology of the lung]	To evaluate the diagnostic possibilities of Digital Radiography (DR) and of Conventional Radiography (CR) in the diagnosis of fine chest lesions, 100 patients with AIDS were examined with both techniques. The gold standards were 67Ga scintigraphy and bronchial washing in 100 patients and Computed Tomography (CT) in 50 patients. The data obtained from DR and CR examinations were separately evaluated by 4 readers and subsequently analyzed by ROC curves with Standard Error calculation and by comparing the areas below the characteristic curves with Student's paired t-test (p less than or equal to 0.05). Statistical analysis showed DR and CR to be of equivalent diagnostic value in the study of interstitial lung diseases.
Prediction of steroid responsiveness in the idiopathic nephrotic syndrome using urinary retinol-binding protein and beta-2-microglobulin.	To determine the prevalence of early proximal tubular dysfunction, measured by urinary excretion of retinol-binding protein (RBP) and beta-2-microglobulin (B2M), in patients with the idiopathic nephrotic syndrome and to investigate the value of these tests in predicting steroid responsiveness.
Evaluating survival model performance: a graphical approach.	In the last decade, many statistics have been suggested to evaluate the performance of survival models. These statistics evaluate the overall performance of a model ignoring possible variability in performance over time. Using an extension of measures used in binary regression, we propose a graphical method to depict the performance of a survival model over time. The method provides estimates of performance at specific time points and can be used as an informal test for detecting time varying effects of covariates in the Cox model framework. The method is illustrated on real and simulated data using Cox proportional hazard model and rank statistics.
Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis of the ability of arterial ketone body ratio to predict graft outcome after liver transplantation--its sensitivity and specificity.	To evaluate the ability of arterial ketone body ratio (AKBR; acetoacetate/3-hydroxybutyrate) to predict graft prognosis after liver transplantation, the diagnostic value as a predictive index was compared between AKBR and conventional liver function tests using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. The ROC curves were determined for AKBR, GOT, GPT, total bilirubin, serum lactate level, and prothrombin time, all of which were measured on the 1st and 2nd postoperative days in 88 cases of liver transplantation. Comparisons of the areas under the ROC curves between AKBR and other tests revealed the significant superiority of AKBR to other tests in predicting graft death within 1 month after transplantation. The present study suggests that AKBR can be used as an accurate index to predict graft prognosis after liver transplantation.
Aneurysm sac thrombus load predicts type II endoleaks after endovascular aneurysm repair.	Type II endoleaks are associated with the absence of aneurysm shrinkage after endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair (EVAR). This study aims at determining the predictability of this complication, whose potential risk factors have been the subject of conflicting reports. Preoperative computed tomography (CT) scans of 178 patients who underwent EVAR for true infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms between January 20, and April 17, 2003, with a minimum follow-up of 30 days, were reviewed. The following information was retrieved: maximum aneurysm diameter, aneurysm thrombus load (maximum thickness, percentage of sac circumference wall coverage, percentage of maximum sac area occupancy); number, diameter, and nature (lumbar, inferior mesenteric, accessory renal, middle sacral) of patent aortic side-branch arteries; thrombus thickness at each aortic branch ostium, and aneurysm diameter at that level. Postoperative CT and duplex scans supplemented with angiography in selected cases were reviewed for the presence of a type II endoleak observable beyond the 30th postoperative day. Logistic regression was used to assess the association of each variable with this outcome. There were 38 (21.3%) patients with type II endoleaks after the 30th postoperative day. The median follow-up was 12 months (range 1-65 months). By univariate analysis, the following variables significantly decreased the risk of a type II endoleak: thrombus maximum thickness [odds ratio (OR) 0.77 for a 5 mm increase, p = 0.009], mean thrombus thickness at aortic side-branches ostia (OR 0.65 for a 1 mm increase, p = 0.0006), thrombus-occupied percentage of maximum aneurysm area (OR 0.72 for a 10% increase, p < 0.0001), percentage of thrombus-lined aneurysm wall (OR 0.53 for a 25% increase, p < 0.0001). The presence of a patent inferior mesenteric artery (OR 6.84, p < 0.01) and the number of patent aortic side-branches (OR 1.37 for each additional vessel, p = 0.002) significantly increased the risk of detecting a late type II endoleak. Aneurysm and aortic side-branch diameters did not have any impact. In a multiple logistic regression model (whole model p < 0.0001), the thrombus-occupied percentage of maximum aneurysm area (OR 0.74 for a 10% increase, p < 0.0005) and the number of patent aortic side-branches (OR 1.31 for each additional vessel, p = 0.009) remained independent predictors of type II endoleaks. The simple measure of the proportion of maximum aneurysm area occupied by thrombus may be a useful way to identify patients at high risk of a persistent type II endoleak. Patients with low preoperative sac thrombus load should be followed with a high degree of suspicion for this complication.
Admission of patients with severe and moderate traumatic brain injury to specialized ICU facilities: a search for triage criteria.	To investigate whether triage for direct admission of patients with traumatic brain injury to a trauma center is facilitated by predicting the risk of potentially removable lesions or raised intracranial pressure (ICP).
Technology assessment of anesthesia monitors.	This essay argues that optimal utilization of anesthesia monitors requires careful technology assessment. This careful assessment is important because monitors may produce spurious or uninterpretable values, or they may damage patients. In addition, resources should be spent only for truly beneficial devices. The types of evidence that this essay describes for use in technology assessment include questions concerning data reliability, data interpretability, and data outcome. Considerable evidence bearing on technology assessment has already been amassed. I propose synthesizing this evidence by meta-analysis. Additional primary studies of technology assessment are also needed.
Diagnosis of ovarian tumor by measuring tumor markers]	Values of CA125, CA19-9, TPA, CA72-4, BFP and LDH in sera were detected in 148 malignant ovarian tumors, 41 borderline malignant ovarian tumors, 71 benign ovarian tumors and 64 benign uterine diseases. A new cut-off value was determined by ROC graph for distinguishing malignant and borderline ovarian tumors from benign ovarian tumors. CA125 (cut off: 30 U/ml) was a highly sensitive marker for malignant and borderline malignant ovarian tumors, the value being 88.1% (52/59) and 81.8% (9/11), respectively. On the other hand, in 37 benign ovarian tumors, the positive rate was 21.6% and in 21 benign uterine diseases it was 52.4%. CA19-9 (cut off: 150 U/ml) was inferior to CA125, but it was an effective marker for mucinous ovarian tumors. TPA (cut off: 40 U/ml) was also a sensitive (84.7%, 50/59) marker of malignant ovarian tumors. CA72-4 (cut off: 4 U/ml) was a highly specific (87.0%, 60/69) marker of malignant ovarian tumors. Combination assays of CA125/CA19-9, CA125/TPA and CA125/CA72-4 were not effective. Usefulness of BFP for early malignant ovarian tumors was suggested. Seven cases of dysgerminoma showed extremely elevated LDH levels (1,248 +/- 886 IU/1/37 degrees C). Malignancy and histological type of ovarian tumors could be decided by combination assay of these tumor markers, before surgical operation.
Apoptosis of Jurkat cells induced by serum of patients with acute severe brain injury.	To investigate the capacity of serum samples draining from the neuronal lesions to induce apoptosis of the lymphoid Jurkat cells in vitro and to analyze whether this effect is related to patient outcome.
Are somatosensory evoked potentials the best predictor of outcome after severe brain injury? A systematic review.	Many tests have been used to predict outcome following severe brain injury. We compared predictive powers of clinical examination (pupillary responses, motor responses and Glasgow Coma Scale, GCS), electroencephalography (EEG) and computed tomography (CT) to that of somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) in a systematic review.
Erythrocyte thiamine (Th) esters: a major factor of the alcohol withdrawal syndrome or a candidate marker for alcoholism itself?	Thiamine (Th) deficiency is a major problem in alcoholics. In this study, the relationship of alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS) to Th and its esters, as well as the diagnostic power of Th and its esters were investigated.
Specificity and sensitivity of the assay for elastin-derived peptides in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.	One prediction of the protease-antiprotease hypothesis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) pathogenesis is the appearance of elastin-derived degradation products in the plasmas of affected patients that are due to the breakdown of alveolar interstitial elastin by an excess of elastolytic activity in the lung. We previously demonstrated a significant elevation of plasma elastin-derived peptides (EDP) in subjects with COPD in comparison with asymptomatic smokers with normal spirometry or normal nonsmokers. To better determine the selectivity of the assay for EDP as a marker of COPD, we measured plasma EDP levels in different patient populations. These included subjects with COPD, subjects with diseases that may involve accelerated elastolysis (pneumonia, atherosclerotic vascular disease, and inflammatory arthritis), subjects with diseases hypothesized to involve pulmonary inflammation without elastolysis (asthma and acute tracheobronchitis), asymptomatic smokers with normal spirometry, and healthy, nonsmoking subjects. Mean plasma EDP levels in subjects with COPD were elevated above those in all other subjects (p less than 0.01). The prospective analyses of specificity and sensitivity of plasma EDP levels as markers of COPD gave values of 91 and 65%, respectively. Utilizing receiver operating characteristic curve analysis to assess the diagnostic and screening performance of plasma EDP as a test for COPD (perfect test equals an area under the curve of 1.0), the area under the curve was 0.87, which compares favorably with many widely used clinical tests. These data demonstrate that the assay for plasma EDP is a quantitative, easily measured, and highly specific marker for subjects with COPD.
A prospective study of outcome predictors after severe brain injury in children.	To directly compare the predictive powers of somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) to those of motor and pupillary responses.
Ga-67 scintigraphy and computed tomography in the diagnosis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with AIDS. A prospective comparison.	A prospective evaluation of Ga-67 scintigraphy and transmission computed tomography was performed in 70 consecutive patients with AIDS who were suspected of having Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. Studies were evaluated independently by two observers. Receiver operating characteristic curves were plotted. Although scintigraphy had a higher true-positive ratio at any false-positive ratio, statistically the areas under the two receiver operating characteristic curves were not significantly different. However, at an FP rate of 15% to 20% (one in the clinically reasonable range), the sensitivity for scintigraphy was 0.84 and for CT 0.80; corresponding specificities were 0.82 and 0.64, respectively, for the two modalities. It seems from these data that gallium imaging is probably superior to CT in detecting P. carinii pneumonia in this group of patients.
Failed surgery for temporal lobe epilepsy: predictors of long-term seizure-free course.	To identify prognostic factors which predict the outcome 2 years after TLE surgery in those patients who were not seizure-free at the 6-month postoperative examination.
A toxicologist's guide to studying diagnostic tests.	Diagnostic testing plays an important role in medicine, including in clinical toxicology. In comparison with therapeutics however, until recently, much less focus has been input in this vital area of research and practice. In the absence of stringent and constructive criteria, the quality and interpretability of studies evaluating diagnostic accuracy has been less than optimal. Recently, a group of researchers and clinicians have attempted to outline a checklist intended to provide guidelines for undertaking and reporting studies examining diagnostic accuracy. Also, a tool to assess the quality of diagnostic accuracy studies was developed. The purpose of this review is to inform practitioners and researchers in the field of clinical toxicology on the basic concepts underlying measurements of the accuracy of diagnostic tests, methodological concerns related to design and analysis of studies, the strengths and weaknesses of different measures of accuracy and an overview of the Standards for Reporting Diagnostic Accuracy (STARD statement) and the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS) tool. Understanding key concepts in the field of diagnostic testing can not only help improve future studies but also explain why diagnostic tests currently used by clinical toxicologists are not performing well in particular circumstances.
Comparison of early and delayed quantified indices of double-phase (99m)Tc MIBI scintimammography in the detection of primary breast cancer.	To compare the diagnostic accuracy and incremental diagnostic role of quantitative indices of early and delayed lesion to non-lesion ratios (L/Ns) in the detection of primary breast cancer.
Comparison of CLA with BPT, SPT, and RAST in children with asthma.	Bronchial provocation tests (BPT) with allergen extracts were performed in 82 children with asthma, and the results were compared with the chemiluminescent assay (CLA), the radio-allergo-sorbent-test (RAST) and skin prick test (SPT). It was found that CLA matched BPT with a concordance of 87% (77-93%), RAST with a concordance of 74% (64-83%) and SPT with 80% (70-88%). Most often, CLA and RAST gave similar results, although their classes did not match precisely.
Prognostic value of dynamic MR imaging for non-small-cell lung cancer patients after chemoradiotherapy.	To determine the prognostic value of dynamic MRI for non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients after chemoradiotherapy.
The status of appendiceal CT in an urban medical center 5 years after its introduction: experience with 753 patients.	Appendiceal CT was introduced at our hospital in 1996 and now is used in most patients. The use of appendiceal CT has generated controversy and mixed results in various investigations. Our purpose was to determine the percentage of patients for whom CT was performed, incidence of appendicitis, accuracy of CT, percentage of equivocal interpretations, and negative appendectomy rates for those patients who did and did not undergo CT.
Clinical risk factor evaluation to defer postmenopausal women from bone mineral density measurement: an Italian study.	To identify clinical risk factors (CRFs) best related to low bone mineral density (BMD) and to assess their abilityin deferring women from dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), 1187 Italian postmenopausal women, dividedinto development (709) and validation (478) groups, were studied. CRFs were investigated by questionnaire. DXAwas performed at the spine and femoral neck. A T-score < -2.5 at both measurement sites classified those with lowBMD. In the development group, using the logistic regression, the CRFs best predicting low BMD were years sincemenopause, age at menarche, weight, previous fracture, and muscle weakness. The predicted probability of low BMD(PPL-BMD), calculated by the logistic equation, was used to build receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves(area = 0.786, standard error [SE] = 0.017) on diagnosed BMD status. The PPL-BMD cutoff below which to deferwomen from DXA was set corresponding to the ROC curve sensitivity of 99%, 98%, and 97%. The coefficients ofthe logistic regression were then used to calculate the PPL-BMD of the validation group. In the validation group, theoverall ability of CRFs to predict low BMD (ROC area = 0.744, SE = 0.023) was not different from that of the developmentgroup. At the PPL-BMD cutoff of 0.132, the percentage of DXA-deferred cases (14.5% vs 19.0%) and low-BMD-missed cases (0.7% vs 1.7%) was similar in both groups. The rates of DXA-deferred women by CRFs arereproducible and this tool should be useful in clinical practice.
Behaviour evaluation for risk-taking adolescents (BERTA): an easy to use and assess instrument to detect adolescent risky behaviours in a clinical setting.	To create an instrument to be used in an outpatient clinic to detect adolescents prone to risk-taking behaviours. Based on previous research, five identified variables (relationship with parents and teachers, liking going to school, average grades, and level of religiosity) were used to create a screening tool to detect at least one of ten risky behaviours (tobacco, alcohol, cannabis and other illegal drugs use; sexual intercourse and sexual risky behaviour; driving while intoxicated, riding with an intoxicated driver, not always using a seat belt, and not always using a helmet). The instrument was tested using the Barcelona Adolescent Health Survey 1993. A Receiver Operating Characteristics curve was used to find the best cut-off point between high and low risk score. Odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals were calculated to detect at least one risky behaviour and for each individual behaviour. In order to assess its predictive value, the analysis was repeated using the Barcelona Adolescent Health Survey 1999. In both cases, analyses were conducted for the whole sample and for younger and older adolescents. Adolescents with a high-risk score were more likely to take at least one risky behaviour both when the whole sample was analysed and by age groups. With very few exceptions, the Behaviour Evaluation for Risk-Taking Adolescents showed significant odds ratios for each individual variable.
A school-based intervention to promote dietary change.	This study examined the effect of 2 school-based interventions on adolescents' consumption and knowledge of fish with the hypothesis that home economics education would enhance the effect of modifications in the school canteen. The school lunch intervention (SL) focused on changes in the school canteen, and the school lunch + home economics intervention (SL + HE) in addition consisted of changes in the home economics syllabus. Pupils in the 8th grade (n = 228) from 3 schools in Gteborg, Sweden, participated (control, n = 83; SL group, n = 58; SL + HE group, n = 87).
Screening with magnetic resonance imaging and mammography of a UK population at high familial risk of breast cancer: a prospective multicentre cohort study (MARIBS).	Women genetically predisposed to breast cancer often develop the disease at a young age when dense breast tissue reduces the sensitivity of X-ray mammography. Our aim was, therefore, to compare contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (CE MRI) with mammography for screening.
Diagnostic value of tympanometry using subject-specific normative values.	Tympanometry has proven valuable in the diagnosis of otitis media in infants. The classification used in the Finnish otitis media studies has resulted in high specificity yet only moderate sensitivity. We aimed to explore the benefit of using each subject's individual previous test results (obtained at previous visits of the children when diagnosed healthy) as normative values. Specific aim was to assess this approach in increasing sensitivity in the diagnosis of otitis media.
Regenerative nodules in hepatic cirrhosis. Value of gradient-echo MR imaging with a surface coil.	To evaluate the accuracy of surface coil gradient-echo (GRE) imaging in the detection of regenerative nodules of hepatic cirrhosis, 53 patients with diffuse liver disease, among whom 31 had cirrhosis, were prospectively investigated. Three GRE sequences acquired with a surface coil were used in the study: a T2*-weighted, a T1-weighted, and a gadopentetate-enhanced sequence. ROC analysis showed that two surface coil GRE sequences were superior to conventional T2-weighted spin-echo imaging acquired with a body coil for the detection of regenerative nodules. The detection of regenerative nodules was also more accurate for the diagnosis of cirrhosis than the measurement of the caudate-to-right lobe ratio. These results suggest that there could be a potential for surface coil GRE imaging in the assessment of the characteristic macroscopic alterations of cirrhosis.
Accuracy of diagnostic imaging techniques in the diagnosis of aseptic loosening of the femoral component of a hip prosthesis: a meta-analysis.	In this meta-analysis we included 32 English-language articles published between January 1975 and June 2004 on the diagnostic performance of plain radiography, subtraction arthrography, nuclear arthrography and bone scintigraphy in detecting aseptic loosening of the femoral component, using criteria based on the Cochrane systematic review of screening and diagnostic tests. The mean sensitivity and specificity were, respectively, 82% (95% confidence interval (CI) 76 to 87) and 81% (95% CI 73 to 87) for plain radiography and 85% (95% CI 75 to 91) and 83% (95% CI 75 to 89) for nuclear arthrography. Pooled sensitivity and specificity were, respectively, 86% (95% CI 74 to 93) and 85% (95% CI 77 to 91) for subtraction arthrography and 85% (95% CI 79 to 89) and 72% (95% CI 64 to 79) for bone scintigraphy. Although the diagnostic performance of the imaging techniques was not significantly different, plain radiography and bone scintigraphy are preferred for the assessment of a femoral component because of their efficacy and lower risk of patient morbidity.
Ultrasound measurement of the fibrous cap in symptomatic and asymptomatic atheromatous carotid plaques.	Fibrous cap thickness (FCT) is an important determinant of atheroma stability. We evaluated the feasibility and potential clinical implications of measuring the FCT of internal carotid artery plaques with a new ultrasound system based on boundary detection by dynamic programming.
Cost effectiveness analysis of using quantitative ultrasound as a selective pre-screen for bone densitometry.	It has been suggested that quantitative ultrasound (QUS) could be used as a selective population pre-screen, to maximise the cost effectiveness of referral for dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) assessment of bone mineral density (BMD). We set out to examine how such an approach might perform in the assessment of women who were referred by general practitioners for DXA via the open access service in Cardiff. In 115 women aged 40-80 (mean 69) years we used DXA to measure BMD at lumbar spine and hip, and QUS to measure broadband ultrasound attenuation (BUA) in the heel. A bottom-up approach was used to estimate the costs of DXA and QUS. We examined the cost effectiveness of using QUS as a pre-screen, only referring subjects for the more expensive DXA assessment if BUA were less than a pre-determined threshold. The unit costs of pencil-beam DXA and QUS were approximately 44 UK pounds and 16 UK pounds respectively. We identified a BUA threshold of 60 dB/MHz as the most cost effective, and calculated a sensitivity of 81% and specificity of 89% in identifying those subjects whom DXA assessment subsequently identified as having osteoporosis. At the BUA threshold of 60 dB/MHz, pre-screening saved 969 UK pounds at the expense of missing ten women with osteoporosis as diagnosed by DXA. Therefore the cost per additional woman with osteoporosis identified using DXA alone was only 97 UK pounds. QUS assessment does not appear to have a significant cost effective benefit as a pre-screen for DXA in the studied population. A QUS pre-screen would be cost effective only if this investigation could be performed at a substantially lower cost.
Measuring the body temperature: how accurate is the Tempa Dot?	We evaluated the accuracy of a disposable, sterile thermometer that is practical in use and holds no risk of cross-infections.
Automated auditory response detection: statistical problems with repeated testing.	Sequential application of a statistical test is usually applied in an automated auditory response detection algorithm. The sequential test strategy is very time-efficient but increases the probability of a false rejection of the null-hypothesis. For this reason, it is necessary to correct the critical test value. However, the well-known Bonferroni correction leads to an over-correction when dealing with dependent or partly dependent data. The objective of the study reported here was to develop a method to determine the critical test value for the sequential testing of dependent data. Extensive Monte Carlo simulations were used to develop this method. The simulation results were reviewed and the benefit of the suggested method, in comparison to the Bonferroni correction, was shown using a large sample of real amplitude modulation following response data. The detection rate determined for these data and the ROC curve demonstrate the advantage of using the method suggested here.
Clinical use of renal perfusion imaging by means of harmonic sonography with a microbubble contrast agent in patients after renal transplantation: preliminary study.	The purpose of this research was to determine the feasibility of renal perfusion imaging by means of harmonic sonography with a microbubble contrast agent for the evaluation of renal perfusion after renal transplantation compared with technetium Tc 99m diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid ((99m)Tc-DTPA) scans.
Second-trimester biparietal diameter/nasal bone length ratio is an independent predictor of trisomy 21.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the association between the second-trimester fetal biparietal diameter/nasal bone length (BPD/NBL) ratio and trisomy 21.
Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy with Tc-99m MIBI in patients with left bundle branch block: Visual quantification of the anteroseptal perfusion imaging for the diagnosis of left anterior descending artery stenosis]	The non-invasive detection of myocardial ischaemia in patients with left bundle branch block (LBBB) remains a challenge. It is often associated with coronary artery disease or hypertension, but frequently there is no indication of cardiovascular pathology at presentation. Exercise-induced electrocardiographic ST segment changes are non-diagnostic. Confirming coronary artery disease has obvious implications for management. Several studies have shown greater cardiac mortality in the presence of LBBB. Generally, a good prognosis has been found in patients with LBBB and normal or near-normal myocardial perfusion scintigraphy (MPS). Various investigators report frequent anteroseptal defects with MPS in patients with LBBB in the absence of significant left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery disease. Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain this false-positive phenomenon. Various interpretative methods and stress techniques have been evaluated in an attempt to improve the specificity of noninvasive studies for detecting LAD disease. A number of software packages for quantifying myocardial perfusion are commercially available. Quantification is recommended to improve diagnostic accuracy and intra- and inter-observer reproducibility.41 METHODS: Patients with LBBB on ECG, who were referred to our institution (February 2002 to September 2003) for myocardial perfusion scintigraphy, were included in the study. Patients with previous myocardial infarction were excluded, unless the location was confirmed to be not anteroseptal before the onset of LBBB. Patients who did not undergo coronary angiography within six months were also excluded, unless a LAD lesion of > or = 50% was diagnosed more than six months prior to MPS without subsequent intervention, or angiography more than six months later showed a LAD lesion of < or = 50%. Treadmill exercise, dipyridamole or dobutamine infusion were used according to standard protocols and imaging commenced 15-60 minutes later. QPS quantitative software, used to reconstruct the images and quantify perfusion, is described in detail elsewhere. Three experienced nuclear physicians interpreted the studies. Stress and rest perfusion, as well as reversibility, to the anteroseptal wall (excluding the apex), anteroseptal wall and apex, and apex only, were graded on a scale of 0 (normal) to 4 (absent perfusion), where 1 represents mild, 2 moderate, and 3 severe impairment of perfusion. A final decision was made by consensus. Using QPS, summed stress, rest and difference scores were obtained for the same regions. Angiographic correlation was obtained by reviewing the patients' records. Stenosis of the LAD or graft vessel to the LAD of > or =50% was regarded as significant. The Kruskal-Wallace non-parametric test was used to compare the groups with and without significant LAD stenosis. A Bonferroni correction was applied to make provision for multiple testing. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was utilised to determine the optimal threshold of the significant measurements to distinguish between the two groups; for this threshold, the sensitivity and specificity were calculated.
Comparison and validation of simple noninvasive tests for prediction of fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C.	Liver biopsy is recommended before antiviral treatment, particularly for patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 1 infection, but it may cause complications and is limited by sampling error. Several non-invasive tests comprising routine laboratory parameters (simple fibrosis tests) have been proposed to predict fibrosis in chronic HCV. The aim of the current study was to validate and compare the diagnostic accuracies of the simple fibrosis tests, aspartate aminotransferase (AST)/alanine aminotransferase (ALT) ratio (AAR), cirrhosis discriminant score (CDS), age-platelet (AP) index, Pohl score, AST-to-platelet ratio index (APRI), and platelet count per se. Staging was performed in liver biopsy specimens of 194 treatment-naive patients with chronic HCV according to Ishak et al. by two independent pathologists. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed comparable diagnostic accuracies of CDS, AP index, APRI, and platelet count for prediction of significant fibrosis (F3-F6) (area under the ROC curve [AUROC], 0.71, 0.74, 0.80, and 0.71, respectively; pathologist A) and for prediction of cirrhosis (F5-F6) (AUROC, 0.91, 0.91, 0.90, and 0.89, respectively; pathologist A). Diagnostic accuracy of APRI for prediction of significant fibrosis was superior to that of AAR (P < .05). Significant fibrosis was reliably predicted by APRI > or = 1.5 and platelet count <150 x10(9)/L in 24% and 22% of the patients, respectively, whereas cirrhosis was reliably excluded by APRI <2.0 and platelet count > or = 150 x10(9)/L in 85% and 78% of the patients, respectively. In conclusion, simple fibrosis tests may render liver biopsy unnecessary only in a minority of patients with chronic HCV. Improved serum fibrosis markers with greater sensitivity for severe fibrosis or cirrhosis are needed.
Support for a continuous (single-process) model of recognition memory and source memory.	Does memory retrieval occur in a continuous or an all-or-none manner? The shape of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) has been used to answer this question, with curvilinear and linear memory ROCs indicating continuous and all-or-none retrieval processes, respectively. Signal detection models (e.g., the unequal variance model) correspond to a continuous retrieval process, whereas threshold models (including the multinomial model and the recollection component of the dual-process model) correspond to an all-or-none process. In studies of source memory, Slotnick et al. (2000) and others have observed curvilinear ROCs (supporting the unequal variance model), whereas Yonelinas (1999) observed linear ROCs (supporting the dual-process model). We resolve these seemingly inconsistent results, showing that source memory ROCs are naturally curvilinear but can appear linear when nondiagnostic source information is included in the analysis. Furthermore, the unequal variance model accounted for both recognition memory and source memory ROCs, supporting a continuous process of memory retrieval.
Hemoglobin E levels in double heterozygotes of hemoglobin E and SEA-type alpha-thalassemia.	Coinheritance of alpha-thalassemia and hemoglobin E (Hb E) is prevalent in Thailand, where the gene frequencies of thalassemia and hemoglobinopathies are high. Hb E carriers with, concomitant inheritance of alpha-thalassemia 1 are known to have a lower level of Hb E. In this study, we reviewed the Hb E levels in Hb E carriers, who either had or did not have Southeast Asian (SEA)-type alpha-thalassemia, in order to seek a Hb E level that may be used as a predictor for concomitant alpha-thalassemia carrier status. The Hb E levels as measured by microcolumn chromatography in 844 Hb E carriers detected during a prenatal screening program for severe thalassemia at Chiang Mai University Hospital were reviewed. Hb E levels ranged from 12.3-35.0% (23.3 +/- 3.1%) in 751 Hb E carriers without SEA-type alpha-thalassemia and from 11.6-32.0% (17.0 +/- 3.7%) in 93 concomitant Hb E and SEA-type alpha-thalassemia carriers. The difference was significant (p < 0.01). However, the absence of SEA-type alpha-thalassemia could not be predicted by the higher Hb E level alone, as 3% of double heterozygotes demonstrated a level of more than 25%. Our study confirms a lower Hb E level in double heterozygotes with Hb E and SEA-type alpha-thalassemia. Nevertheless, the difference does not provide sufficient discriminatory power for the reliable exclusion of alpha-thalassemia status.
Sustained elevation of serum CD40 ligand levels one month after coronary angioplasty predicts angiographic restenosis.	Percutaneous coronary intervention induces an early inflammatory reaction. The intensity of such a reaction as measured by high-sensitivity C-reactive protein has been correlated with recurrent ischemic events, but its association with restenosis remains uncertain.
Hepatocellular carcinoma: epidemiology, risk factors, and screening.	In this article, the epidemiology of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), risk factors for the development of HCC, and how these factors affect the decision about whether an individual should or should be entered into a screening program are considered. The factors determining the risk for HCC include age, male gender, and the nature of the underlying liver disease. In particular, cirrhosis is associated with a significant risk for HCC. However, in hepatitis B HCC also occurs in noncirrhotic liver. Decision analysis can be used to identify patients at greatest risk for HCC and who might be candidates for screening. Screening itself should be developed in a programmatic manner to ensure that appropriate target populations are identified, that appropriate screening tests are chosen, and that appropriate recall and enhanced follow-up are instituted for patients who have positive screening test results. Screening should be by ultrasonography at 4- to 12-month intervals. Patients with abnormal screening tests require additional investigation using computed tomography scanning, magnetic resonance imaging, or liver biopsy. Negative results do not exclude the possibility of cancer and further follow-up is necessary.
MELD vs Child-Pugh and creatinine-modified Child-Pugh score for predicting survival in patients with decompensated cirrhosis.	Model of End-stage Liver Disease (MELD) score has recently gained wide acceptance over the old Child-Pugh score in predicting survival in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, although it is more sophisticated. We compared the predictive values of MELD, Child-Pugh and creatinine-modified Child-Pugh scores in decompensated cirrhosis.
Multivariate prediction of in-hospital mortality associated with coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Northern New England Cardiovascular Disease Study Group.	A prospective regional study was conducted to identify factors associated with in-hospital mortality among patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). A prediction rule was developed and validated based on the data collected.
Prediction of preeclampsia with maternal mid-trimester placental growth factor, activin A, fibronectin and uterine artery Doppler velocimetry.	To assess whether alterations in the serum levels of placental growth factor, activin A and fibronectin could be detected in patients before they become preeclamptic. And to evaluate and compare the clinical utility of these markers and uterine artery Doppler velocimetry in predicting preeclampsia.
Functional status after childhood traumatic brain injury.	Identification of children after traumatic brain injury (TBI) likely to have functional deficits at trauma center discharge will facilitate care.
Clinical predictions and decisions to perform cardiac surgery on high-risk patients.	The proportion of high-risk patients undergoing cardiac surgery has increased steadily over the last two decades. Many of those patients have a catastrophic postoperative course and use hospital resources in a proportion that largely outweighs their number. Consequently, the appropriateness of invasive and intensive interventions in those patients has been questioned. If futility of care were predictable preoperatively, cardiac surgery would probably be denied to many high-risk patients. Logistic regression has been used to develop many complex predictive models to identify high-risk patients and predict their outcome; however, those models do not provide much more discrimination than clinical judgment alone. Moreover, with continuous improvement in medical care all risk models lose their calibration over time. As a result, they often overestimate the probabilities of poor outcome in the individual patients. Many high-risk cardiac surgical patients require a prolonged stay in the intensive care unit (ICU). The analysis of small cohorts of patients who had a prolonged postoperative stay in the ICU shows that 50% and 40% of them are still alive at 1- and 2-year follow-up, respectively; and most survivors report a good quality of life. Considering the limitations of predictive risk models and the satisfaction of cardiac surgical patients who survive after a prolonged ICU stay, it is reasonable to recognize that cardiac surgery should rarely be denied to high-risk patients unless technically unfeasible, and clinical predictions should have only a marginal role in the decision to operate on those patients.
Bone mass of spine and forearm in osteoporosis and in German normals: influences of sex, age and anthropometric parameters.	We measured forearm bone mineral density (BMD) using single photon absorptiometry (SPA) and bone mineral content (BMC) and BMD of lumbar spine by dual photon absorptiometry (DPA). The population consisted of 463 bone healthy subjects, 346 females and 117 males aged 20-85 years. Any underlying bone disease or other diseases known to affect bone mass were excluded by physical examination, thoracic and lumbar radiographs and laboratory screening. Patients with osteoarthritis of lumbar spine were excluded as well as patients taking drugs known to affect bone mass. All bone mass values declined with age. Body height also declined with age by 1.2 cm and 1.8 cm per 10 years (-0.7% and -1%) in females and males respectively. Main effects of age, body height, -surface, -weight and -mass index on bone mass were calculated using multiple regression models. In males and females lumbar BMC measured in gHA depended primarily on body height and secondarily on age. Spinal BMD as measured in g cm-2 was primarily dependent on age and then on height. In females forearm BMD depended primarily on age and then on body surface, in males on body surface only. Using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis the ROC area increased from 0.81-0.85 (n.s.) including body height into spinal BMD values leading to a higher sensitivity of measurements of spinal bone mass in recognizing 58 patients with spinal postmenopausal osteoporosis. Including body surface into forearm BMD measurements ROC area increased from 0.66-0.69 (P = 0.055).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Comparison of adrenal function tests in children--the glucagon stimulation test allows the simultaneous assessment of adrenal function and growth hormone response in children.	The accurate assessment of adrenal function is necessary in many children with suspicion of pituitary insufficiency. The objective of this study was to evaluate the adrenal response during the glucagon stimulation test (GST) and its diagnostic utility in children. A total of 290 children, aged 10.1 +/- 5.0 years, were evaluated for adrenal function using the corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH) test, the GST, and/or the insulin tolerance test (ITT). Glucagon stimulation provoked a substantial rise in cortisol and adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) that was independent of gender, age, or underlying growth hormone deficiency. There were no differences in peak cortisol levels in the GST compared to the CRH test in pair-wise intra-individual analyses in children with both tests performed within one year (615.4 +/- 30.5 vs 602.8 +/- 22.4 nmol/l, n=52). Similarly, there were no differences in the cortisol response between the ITT and CRH test. Peak cortisol levels in the CRH test correlated with the GST and the ITT. The magnitude of ACTH response, in contrast, was highest in the ITT with a 9.8-fold increase over baseline, while the increase in the GST (3.1-fold) and CRH test (1.6-fold) were more subtle. Since there is controversy concerning reliable cut-off values for adrenal function tests in children, we analyzed cut off levels in 186 children, including 26 children with adrenal insufficiency, using the CRH test. A peak cortisol level of 450 nmol/l provided the best balance of sensitivity (88.5%) and specificity (86.8%), while higher cut-off levels did not increase sensitivity but lost in specificity. In summary, the GST constitutes an1 equally sensitive test for the assessment of adrenal function in children that is not confounded by anthropometric parameters and is generally not accompanied by major side effects. It allows the simultaneous assessment of corticotroph and somatotroph function and may thus constitute a valuable alternative to the ITT.
Uric acid renal excretion and renal insufficiency in decompensated severe heart failure.	To evaluate uric acid renal excretion, hyperuricemia, renal dysfunction, and prognosis in patients with decompensated severe heart failure, as there are few data available.
Reduced myocardial velocities of left ventricular long-axis contraction identify both systolic and diastolic heart failure-a comparison with brain natriuretic peptide.	Echocardiographic diagnosis of radial fractional shortening or global ejection fraction fails to diagnose all patients with heart failure; about 40%, with apparently normal global systolic function, will have elevated brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) concentrations and "pure" diastolic dysfunction. Screening methods do not include assessment of left ventricular (LV) longitudinal function, however, which is a more sensitive marker of subclinical disease.
BNP as a marker of diastolic dysfunction in the general population: Importance of left ventricular hypertrophy.	BNP is a marker of systolic left ventricular dysfunction (LVSD) and heart failure. To assess BNP for the detection of diastolic dysfunction in the general population, we examined 1678 subjects within an age- and sex-stratified survey (MONICA Augsburg). BNP was measured using a commercially available RIA (Shionogi). BNP increased in subjects with diastolic dysfunction (mean 20.3+/-4.7 pg/ml vs. control 9.6+/-0.5 pg/ml, p<0.001), but to a lesser extent than in subjects with LV hypertrophy (LVH, mean 37.3+/-49.1 pg/ml, p<0.001 vs. control) or LVSD (mean 76.2+/-23.2 pg/ml, p<0.001 vs. control). Individuals with sole diastolic abnormality displayed BNP concentrations at the control level (mean 9.7+/-1.7 pg/ml). In univariate analysis, age, BMI, systolic blood pressure, left atrial size, LV mass index, diastolic dysfunction and EF displayed a significant correlation with BNP (p<0.001). However, LV mass index displaced diastolic dysfunction as a significant predictor of BNP in multivariate analysis. Upon ROC analysis, sensitivity and specificity for the detection of diastolic dysfunction by BNP were only 61% and 55%, respectively. Nevertheless, a normal BNP test virtually excluded the presence of diastolic dysfunction and concomitant LVH (NPV 99.9%). Increased BNP concentrations in subjects with diastolic dysfunction are strongly related to LVH. Population-wide screening for diastolic dysfunction with BNP cannot be recommended although a normal BNP test usually excludes diastolic dysfunction and LV hypertrophy.
The diagnostic accuracy of plasma BNP and NTproBNP in patients referred from primary care with suspected heart failure: results of the UK natriuretic peptide study.	To determine the diagnostic accuracy of the measurement of plasma B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) and N-terminal pro-BNP (NTproBNP) in patients referred by their general practitioners (GPs) with symptoms suggestive of heart failure. Additionally, to compare the diagnostic accuracy of the resting 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) with that of the peptides.
The NT-proBNP assay identifies very elderly nursing home residents suffering from pre-clinical heart failure.	Little is known about the prevalence of heart failure among very old people, although hospitalisation rates for chronic heart failure are very high. Recently, brain natriuretic peptides have emerged as important diagnostic and prognostic serum markers for congestive heart failure.
A direct comparison of the natriuretic peptides and their relationship to survival in chronic heart failure of a presumed non-ischaemic origin.	The natriuretic peptides have been validated as sensitive and specific markers of left ventricular dysfunction; brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), N-terminal atrial natriuretic peptide (NT-proANP) and N-terminal brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) elevations have been associated with New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class I-IV heart failure. We directly compared the association of each of these markers with 1-year survival in 173 patients with chronic heart failure of a presumed nonischaemic origin entering the PRAISE-2 Trial, a clinical study which assessed the therapeutic effect of Amlodipine in patients with NYHA Class III and IV heart failure and a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) <30%. BNP, NT-proBNP, and NT-proANP levels were all correlated with 1-year mortality by univariate Cox proportional hazards analyses. With respect to multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models containing variables deemed significant in univariate analyses, NT-proANP alone was identified as an independent predictor of 1-year mortality when log-transformed continuous covariates were utilized in the analysis. When the analysis was repeated using dichotomous covariates, NT-proANP remained the most significant predictor of 1-year mortality, followed by NT-proBNP, NYHA classification and BNP. We conclude that all three natriuretic peptides are significant predictors of short-term mortality in subjects with chronic congestive heart failure (CHF) of a presumed nonischaemic origin. Larger prospective studies are required to validate the clinical utility of NT-proANP as a discriminating marker of short-term survival, and to validate proposed cutoffs of approximately 2300 pmol/l for NT-proANP, 1500 pg/ml for NT-proBNP, and 50 pmol/l for BNP as prognostic indicators of adverse short-term outcome.
Pre-discharge B-type natriuretic peptide predicts early recurrence of decompensated heart failure in patients admitted to a general medical unit.	B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) represents a promising predictor of early (30 days) re-admission in patients with heart failure (HF) admitted to cardiology units. Whether BNP retains its predictive value in unselected patients admitted to general medical wards is unknown.
Lactate determination in vaginal fluids: a new method in the diagnosis of prelabour rupture of membranes.	To assess whether lactate determination in vaginal fluids, 'Lac test', can be used as a diagnostic test for prelabour rupture of membranes (PROM) and to derive the best cutoff value for a positive test.
The cut-off point of waist circumference for identifying metabolic syndrome in Chinese adults]	Metabolic syndrome has attracted more attention from scientists of related areas due to its association with increased risk of cardiovascular disease and diabetes. The clinical identification criteria for metabolic syndrome issued by ATP III of NECP indicate the enlarged waist as the first component using the cut-offs derived from Caucasians. The purpose of this study is to investigate the appropriate cut-offs of waist circumference for Chinese adults as a component of metabolic syndrome.
Relationships between pregnancy rates following in vitro fertilization or intracytoplasmic sperm injection and endometrial thickness and pattern.	To investigate the role of endometrial thickness and pattern on the day of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) administration on in vitro fertilization (IVF)/intracytoplasmic injection (ICSI) outcome.
Voxel-based morphometry to discriminate early Alzheimer's disease from controls.	We assessed the accuracy of voxel-based morphometry (VBM) using a three-dimensional T1-weighted MRI in discriminating Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the very early stage of amnestic type of mild cognitive impairment and age-matched healthy controls. We randomly divided these subjects into two groups. The first group comprising 30 AD patients and 41 controls was used to identify the area with the most significant gray matter loss in patients compared to normal controls based on the voxel-based analysis of a group comparison. The second group comprising 31 patients and 41 controls was used to determine the discrimination accuracy of VBM. A Z-score map for a gray matter image of a subject was obtained by comparison with mean and standard deviation gray matter images of the controls for each voxel after anatomical standardization and voxel normalization to global mean using the following equation; Z-score=([control mean]-[individual value])/(control S.D.). Receiver operating characteristic curves for a Z-score in the bilateral medial temporal areas including the entorhinal cortex with the most significant loss in the first group showed a high discrimination accuracy of 87.8%. This result would open up a possibility for early diagnosis of AD using VBM.
Stages of smoking acquisition versus susceptibility as predictors of smoking initiation in adolescents in primary care.	We evaluated whether susceptibility, the stages of smoking acquisition, and socio-environmental factors can identify adolescents who will become smokers. Our data came from a randomized controlled trial of an intervention to prevent adolescent smoking. Subjects were adolescents (n=1955) ages 14-17 being seen for routine medical care. The dependent variable was 30-day smoking status at 2-year follow-up (89.6% response rate). Independent variables included susceptibility, the stages of acquisition, and socio-environmental factors. Susceptible adolescents were two to three times more likely to be smokers than non-susceptible adolescents. Compared to acquisition precontemplators, acquisition contemplators were three to five times more likely, and acquisition preparers were five to eight times more likely, to be smokers. When combined into a single measure, susceptible precontemplators were two times, contemplators were six times, and preparers were nine times more likely to be smokers than non-susceptible precontemplators. Our findings suggest that acquisition stage and susceptibility can independently predict smoking onset. They may be used together to target teens for smoking prevention efforts in the clinical setting.
Nutrition screening tools and the prediction of postoperative infectious and wound complications: comparison of methods in presence of risk adjustment.	We compared four nutritional screening tools, the Nutrition Risk Classification, the Mini-Nutrition Assessment-Short Form, the Malnutrition Screening Tool, and the Nutrition Risk Score in terms of their ability to predict postoperative wound and infectious complications when adjusted for the effects of other risk factors for postoperative infection.
Assessing the utility of a community pharmacy refill record as a measure of adherence and viral load response in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus.	To assess the utility of a community pharmacy refill record as a measure of adherence to antiretroviral agents and as a predictor of viral load response.
The development and validation of the Norfolk QOL-DN, a new measure of patients' perception of the effects of diabetes and diabetic neuropathy.	This study was designed to develop and validate a patient-reported outcomes measure, sensitive to the different features of diabetic neuropathy (DN)-small fiber, large fiber, and autonomic nerve function.
Computer-based image analysis of natural approximal caries on radiographic films.	This paper reports on the development of computer software for automatic detection and measurement of approximal caries lesions on digital images obtained from radiographic films. If the program detects a lesion, it defines the lesion's border and measures and reports these lesion parameters: percent mineralization, area, maximum enamel penetration, and mean enamel penetration. Two experiments are reported; both were conducted with the use of extracted human premolar teeth. In the first experiment, thin sections were obtained from 13 approximal surfaces with caries lesions. Microradiographs were made of the sections, and software measurements of the lesions were obtained from the microradiographs. The software was able to separate the lesions into two groups: those that had penetrated less than 100% of the enamel and those that had penetrated 100% of the enamel. The software measurements agreed with evaluation of lesion penetration by polarized light microscopy of the thin sections. In the second experiment, simulated clinical radiographs were made of 16 approximal surfaces, 12 with lesions and four without. Thin sections were obtained for microradiography. Software was used for automatic detection and measurement of the lesions on both types of film. The ability of the software to detect the lesions on the clinical films was compared with that of 10 experienced clinicians. Correlations of the same parameter from the two types of radiographic films were statistically significant, 0.86 less than or equal to r less than or equal to 0.95 and p less than 0.05. The coefficients of variation were low for both microradiographs, 0.4-2.3%, and for clinical films, 0.7-8.5%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Diagnostic and therapeutic use of proton pump inhibitors in non-cardiac chest pain: a metaanalysis.	To assess (i) the efficacy of short-term proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) in non-cardiac chest pain (NCCP) and (ii) the performance of an empirical short-term treatment with PPI (PPI test) to establish a diagnosis of abnormal acid reflux in NCCP.
Symptom reporting by functional dyspeptics during the water load test.	Reporting of symptoms and visceral sensations in functional dyspepsia is subjective and influenced by such factors as somatization and depression. To better understand the role of these factors in symptom reporting, somatization, somatosensory amplification, alexithymia, and depression were evaluated in patients with functional dyspepsia undergoing a water load test.
Predictive value of image cytometry for diagnosis of lung cancer in heavy smokers.	The Research Institute for Diagnosis and Treatment of Early Lung Cancer (RIDTELC) Lung Study was initiated to determine whether lung cancer screening by automated sputum cytometry combined with conventional sputum cytology and auto-fluorescence in addition to white light bronchoscopy could enhance the detection rate of early lung cancer. The present study analyses the initial findings to evaluate the efficiency of automated sputum cytology in predicting the diagnosis of lung cancer. In this study, malignancy grade was used as a predictive parameter for lung cancer. In total, 2,480 heavy smokers (>30 pack-yrs), aged 50-74 yrs, with no previous cancer in the last 5 yrs, received chest radiology, conventional sputum cytology and sputum cytometry screening. In total, twenty-seven lung cancers were diagnosed, representing a prevalence of 1.1%, 25 of which provided sputum samples. Positive automated sputum cytology results were seen in 176 smokers (7.2%), 10 (0.4%) of whom had severe dysplasia or higher lesions (positive results) by conventional sputum cytology examination. Out of 25 tumour cases, 20 had suspicious results using automated sputum cytology, representing 80% sensitivity. One patient out of 24 with tumours had positive results on conventional sputum cytology, representing a sensitivity of 4.2%. For all stages of squamous cell lung cancer and later stage adenocarcinoma the sensitivity of automated sputum cytology was 100%. For adenocarcinoma stage I sensitivity was 25%. In conclusion, DNA analysis of sputum slides by automated sputum cytology may be a suitable tool for the detection of early lung cancer and the characterisation of a high-risk group with pre-invasive lesions for follow-up.
A brief screening tool for a prepubertal and early adolescent bipolar disorder phenotype.	Although there has recently been increased interest in child mania, there is as yet no brief screening tool that separates a prepubertal and early adolescent bipolar disorder phenotype from attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), the most relevant differential diagnosis.
Examination of the effects of degeneration on vertebral artery by using neural network in cases with cervical spondylosis.	The scope of this study is to diagnose vertebral arterial inefficiency by using Doppler measurements from both right and left vertebral arterials. Total of 96 patients' Doppler measurements, consisting of 42 of healthy, 30 of spondylosis, and 24 of clinically proven vertebrobasillary insufficiency (VBI), were examined. Patients' age and sex information as well as RPSN, RPSVN, LPSN, LPSVN, and TOTALVOL medical parameters obtained from vertebral arterials were classified by neural networks, and the performance of said classification reached up to 93.75% in healthy, 83.33% in spondylosis, and 97.22% in VBI cases. The area under ROC curve, which is a direct indication of repeating success ratio, is calculated as 92.3%, and the correlation coefficient of the classification groups is 0.9234. It is also demonstrated that those medical parameters of age and systolic velocity, which were applied into the neural networks, were more effective in developing vertebral deficiency.
Lessons from my dinners with the giants of modern image science.	The author traces some critical moments in the history of Image Science in the last half century from first-hand or once-removed experience. The Image Science used in the field of medical imaging today had its origins in the analysis of photon detection developed for modern television, conventional photography, and the human visual system. Almost all "model observers" used in image assessment today converge to the model originally used by Albert Rose in his analysis of those classic photo-detectors. A more general statistical analysis of the various "defects" of conventional and unconventional photon-imaging technologies was provided by Shaw. A number of investigators in medical imaging elaborated the work of these pioneers into a synthesis with the general theory of signal detectability and extended this work to the various forms of CT, energy-spectral-dependent imaging, and the further complication of anatomical-background-noise limited imaging. The author calls for further extensions of this work to the problem of under-sampled and thus artefact-limited imaging that will be important issues for high-speed CT and MRI.
Recent advances in observer performance methodology: jackknife free-response ROC (JAFROC).	The jackknife free-response receiver operating characteristic (JAFROC) method allows quantitative analysis of observer data such as that observed when radiologists interpret images, which could contain more than one lesion and a location can be reported for each perceived lesion. The method was recently validated with a perception-based simulation model that incorporated the detectability parameter of the standard binormal ROC model, and in addition allowed simultaneous samples from both noise and signal distributions. The total number of noise samples is an important new parameter that measures reader expertise. The new sampling model incorporates search, which is an integral part of lesion detection that has not been possible to model until now. The model was used to generate simulated FROC ratings data, which was used to assess the statistical validity of JAFROC analysis. We found that JAFROC analysis is a statistically valid approach for analysing FROC data and that JAFROC analysis exhibited significantly greater statistical power than the existing ROC approach.
A software tool for increased efficiency in observer performance studies in radiology.	Observer performance studies are time-consuming tasks, both for the participating observers and for the scientists collecting and analysing the data. A possible way to optimise such studies is to perform them in a completely digital environment. A software tool-ViewDEX (Viewer for Digital Evaluation of X-ray images)-has been developed in Java, enabling it to function on almost any computer. ViewDEX is designed to handle several types of studies, such as visual grading analysis (VGA), image criteria scoring (ICS) and receiver operating characteristics (ROC). The results from each observer are saved in a log file, which can be exported for further analysis in, for example, a special software for analysing ROC results. By using ViewDEX for an ROC experiment, an evaluation rate of approximately 200 images per hour can be achieved, compared to approximately 25 images per hour using hard copy evaluation. The results are obtained within minutes of completion of the viewing. The risk of human errors in the process of data collection and analysis is also minimised. The viewer has been used in a major trial containing approximately 2700 images.
Evaluation of image quality of lumbar spine images: a comparison between FFE and VGA.	The aim of the present study is to compare two different methods for evaluation of the quality of clinical X-ray images.
Nodule detection in digital chest radiography: effect of nodule location.	Most detection studies in chest radiography treat the entire chest image as a single background or divided into the two regions parenchyma and mediastinum. However, the different parts of the lung show great variations in attenuation and structure, leading to different amounts of quantum noise and scattered radiation as well as different complexity. Detailed data on the difference in detectability in the different regions are of importance. The purpose of this study was to quantify the difference in detectability between different regions of a chest image. The chest X ray was divided into six different regions, where each region was considered to be uniform in terms of detectability. Thirty clinical chest images were collected and divided into the different regions. Simulated designer nodules with a full-width-at-fifth-maximum of 10 mm but with varying contrast were added to the images. An equal number of images lacking pathology were included and a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) study was conducted with five observers. Results show that the image contrast needed to obtain a constant value of A(z) (area under an ROC curve) differs by more than a factor of four between different regions.
Nodule detection in digital chest radiography: effect of system noise.	Apart from the image content that is the reproduction of anatomy and possible lesions, an X-ray image also contains system noise due to the limited number of photons and other internal noise sources in the system (image plate artefacts, electronic noise, etc.). The aim of this study was to determine the extent to which the system noise influences the detection of subtle lung nodules in five different regions of the chest. This was done by conducting a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) study with five observers on two different sets of images; clinical chest X-ray images and images of a LucAl phantom at similar dose levels found in the different regions of the chest. In both image types, mathematically simulated nodules (with a full-width-at-fifth-maximum of 10 mm) were added to the images at varying contrast levels. As a measure of the influence of system noise on the detection of subtle lung nodules, the ratio between the contrast needed to obtain an area under the ROC curve of 0.80 in the system noise images to that needed in the clinical images was used. The contrast ratio between system noise images and clinical images ranged from approximately 0.02 (in the hilar region) to 0.18 (in the lower mediastinal region). The maximum difference in contrast needed for the corresponding system noise images, collected at the lowest and the highest dose represented in the anatomical image, was a factor of 2. These results indicate that probably no region in a chest X-ray image is limited by the number of quanta to the detector for the detection of 10 mm lung nodules when a radiation dose corresponding to a system with speed class 200 (leading to a detector dose of approximately 9 muGy behind the parenchyma) is used.
Nodule detection in digital chest radiography: part of image background acting as pure noise.	There are several factors that influence the radiologist's ability to detect a specific structure/lesion in a radiograph. Three factors that are commonly known to be of major importance are the signal itself, the system noise and the projected anatomy. The aim of this study was to determine to what extent the image background acts as pure noise for the detection of subtle lung nodules in five different regions of the chest. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) study with five observers was conducted on two different sets of images, clinical chest X-ray images and images with a similar power spectrum as the clinical images but with a random phase spectrum, resulting in an image background containing pure noise. Simulated designer nodules with a full-width-at-fifth-maximum of 10 mm but with varying contrasts were added to the images. As a measure of the part of the image background that acts as pure noise, the ratio between the contrast needed to obtain an area under the ROC curve of 0.80 in the clinical images to that in the random-phase images was used. The ratio ranged from 0.40 (in the lateral pulmonary regions) to 0.83 (in the hilar regions) indicating that there was a large difference between different regions regarding to what extent the image background acted as pure noise; and that in the hilar regions the image background almost completely acted as pure noise for the detection of 10 mm nodules.
Nodule detection in digital chest radiography: effect of anatomical noise.	The image background resulting from imaged anatomy can be divided into those components that are meaningful to the observers, in the sense that they are recognised as separate structures, and those that are not. These latter components (reffered to as anatomical noise) can be removed using a method developed within the RADIUS group. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the removal of the anatomical noise results in images where lung nodules with lower contrast can be detected. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) study was therefore conducted using two types of images: clinical chest images and chest images in which the anatomical noise had been removed. Simulated designer nodules with a full-width-at-fifth-maximum of 10 mm but with varying contrast were added to the images. The contrast needed to obtain an area under the ROC curve of 0.80, C0.8, was used as a measure of detectability (a low value of C0.8 represents a high detectability). Five regions of the chest X ray were investigated and it was found that in all regions the removal of anatomical noise led to images with lower C0.8 than the original images. On average, C0.8 was 20% higher in the original images, ranging from 7% (the lateral pulmonary regions) to 41% (the upper mediastinal regions).
Nodule detection in digital chest radiography: summary of the RADIUS chest trial.	As a part of the Europe-wide research project 'Unification of physical and clinical requirements for medical X-ray imaging'-governed by the Radiological Imaging Unification Strategies (RADIUS) Group-a major image quality trial was conducted by members of the group. The RADIUS chest trial aimed at thoroughly examining various aspects of nodule detection in digital chest radiography, such as the effects of nodule location, system noise, anatomical noise, and anatomical background. The main findings of the RADIUS chest trial concerning the detection of a lung nodule with a size in the order of 10 mm can be summarised as: (1) the detectability of the nodule is largely dependent on its location in the chest, (2) the system noise has a minor impact on the detectability at the dose levels used today, (3) the disturbance of the anatomical noise is larger than that of the system noise but smaller than that of the anatomical background and (4) the anatomical background acts as noise to a large extent and is the major image component affecting the detectability of the nodule.
A conceptual optimisation strategy for radiography in a digital environment.	Using a completely digital environment for the entire imaging process leads to new possibilities for optimisation of radiography since many restrictions of screen/film systems, such as the small dynamic range and the lack of possibilities for image processing, do not apply any longer. However, at the same time these new possibilities lead to a more complicated optimisation process, since more freedom is given to alter parameters. This paper focuses on describing an optimisation strategy that concentrates on taking advantage of the conceptual differences between digital systems and screen/film systems. The strategy can be summarised as: (a) always include the anatomical background during the optimisation, (b) perform all comparisons at a constant effective dose and (c) separate the image display stage from the image collection stage. A three-step process is proposed where the optimal setting of the technique parameters is determined at first, followed by an optimisation of the image processing. In the final step the optimal dose level-given the optimal settings of the image collection and image display stages-is determined.
Assessment and optimisation of the image quality of chest-radiography systems.	A complete evaluation strategy had been developed for thoracic X-ray imaging. It has been validated by investigating five chest-radiography systems, two of these systems after optimising image processing. The systems were a screen-film combination, a selenium drum, a conventional and a transparent imaging plate and a Cs/I-based flat panel detector (the two latter ones have been optimised using different post processing). At first all detectors have been characterised using physical parameters like DQE and MTF. After that all systems have been evaluated by human observer studies using anatomy in clinical images (VGA, ICS) and added pathological structures in thoracic phantom images (ROC). The ranking of the image quality of the systems was nearly the same in all studies. There was a similar assessment of main image quality parameters like spatial resolution, dynamic range and MTF. The modification of image post processing changed the visibility of pathological structures more than the visualisation of the anatomical criteria. The assessment of the clinical image quality has to be done for anatomical structures, and the recognition of pathological structures has to be evaluated.
RADIUS--closing the circle on the assessment of imaging performance.	The RADIUS (Radiological Imaging Unification Strategy) project addresses the assessment of image quality in terms of both physical and clinically relevant measures. The aim is to unify our understanding of both types of measure as well as the numerous underlying factors that play a key role in the assessments of imaging performance. In this way it is expected to provide a solid basis for the improvement in radiological safety management, where not only radiation risks are considered but also diagnostic risks of incorrect clinical outcomes (i.e. false positive/false negative). The project has applied a variety of relevant experimental and theoretical methods to this problem, which is generic to medical imaging as a whole. Digital radiography of the chest and the breast has been employed as the clinical imaging domain vehicles for the study. The project addressed the problem from the following directions: role and relevance of pathology, human observer studies including receiver operating characteristics, image quality criteria analysis, structural noise analysis, physical measurements on clinical images, physical measurements on imaging system, modelling of imaging system, modelling of visual processes, modelling of doses delivered and IT-based scientific support strategies. This paper presents an overview of the main outcomes from this project and highlights how the research outcomes actually apply to the real world. In particular, attention will be focused on new and original findings and methods and techniques that have been developed within the framework of the project. The relevance of the project's outcomes to future European research will also be presented.
Can the MiniSCID improve the detection of bipolarity in private practice?	Several recent studies have re-examined the prevalence of Bipolar Disorder, raising the suspicion that it is being underdiagnosed, particularly early in the course of the disease. The MiniSCID is a screening instrument for Axis-I diagnoses.
Prediction of response to ECT with routinely collected data in major depression.	Little is known about the possibility to predict response to electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in patients with major depression. The aim of this study is to create an index for the prediction of response to ECT in an individual patient.
Computer aid for decision to biopsy breast masses on mammography: validation on new cases.	The purpose of this study was to validate the performance of a previously developed computer aid for breast mass classification for mammography on a new, independent database of cases not used for algorithm development.
Estimation and comparison of CAD system performance in clinical settings.	Computer-aided detection (CAD) systems are frequently compared using free-response receiver operating characteristic (FROC) curves. While there are ample statistical methods for comparing FROC curves, when one is interested in comparing the outcomes of 2 CAD systems applied in a typical clinical setting, there is the additional matter of correctly determining the system operating point. This article shows how the effect of the sampling error on determining the correct CAD operating point can be captured. By incorporating this uncertainty, a method is presented that allows estimation of the probability with which a particular CAD system performs better than another on unseen data in a clinical setting.
False positive reactions for IgA and IgG anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies in liver cirrhosis are common and method-dependent.	Conflicting results were obtained in the assay of anti-transglutaminase (anti-tTG) autoantibodies in patients with chronic liver disease. In order to establish whether this was attributable to methodological differences, anti-tTG antibodies were assayed in a large number of patients suffering from liver cirrhosis (LC).
Assessing glomerular filtration rate in renal transplant recipients by estimates derived from serum measurements of creatinine and cystatin C.	Assessing glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is of importance in the surveillance of renal transplant recipients. As serum markers alone are inaccurate for estimating GFR, several equations have been developed with the aim of translating a serum value into a corresponding and more accurate GFR. The present study investigated the diagnostic characteristics of GFR estimates obtained by the simplified MDRD formula and the cystatin C based estimate described by Larsson et al.
Cerebrospinal fluid tau, Abeta1-42 and inflammatory cytokines in patients with Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.	In this study we aimed to evaluate the possibility of using cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau, Abeta(1-42) and inflammatory cytokines for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VD). We measured levels of total tau (T-tau), phospho-tau (P-tau), Abeta(1-42), IL-6, and TNFalpha in CSF in groups of AD, VD, and controls using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). T-tau level was found significantly higher in groups of AD (t = 3.015, P < 0.01) and VD (t = 2.872, P < 0.01) than in controls. IL-6 level as also higher in AD (t = 2.883, P < 0.01) and VD (t = 3.032, P < 0.01) than in controls. Both T-tau and IL-6 were not significantly different between AD and VD (P > 0.05). The group of AD had remarkably higher P-tau (t = 4.261 and 3.883, respectively, P < 0.01) and lower Abeta(1-42) (t = 3.883 and 4.129, respectively, P < 0.01), as compared with those in VD and controls. TNFalpha level in AD was significantly higher than that in controls (t = 2.745, P < 0.01), but lower than in VD (t = 3.032, P < 0.01). Our data suggested that increment of T-tau and IL-6 levels in CSF was useful for screening AD and VD in certain population, while descending Abeta(1-42) and ascending TNFalpha in CSF are preferable to diagnose AD. In addition, a higher level of CSF P-tau might support AD diagnosis.
Diagnostic performance of cardiovascular magnetic resonance in patients with suspected acute myocarditis: comparison of different approaches.	The aim of this research was to identify the diagnostic performance of gadolinium-enhanced and T2-weighted cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) in suspected acute myocarditis.
The contribution of magnetic resonance spectroscopy and echoplanar perfusion-weighted MRI in the initial assessment of brain tumours.	Conventional Computed Tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) are the cornerstone in the initial evaluation of brain tumours. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the contribution of Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) and Perfusion-weighted MRI to distinguish malignant from benign tumours. We included 55 patients diagnosed with single brain tumour by CT and MRI, and final histopathological verification of the tumour type: 25 were low-grade gliomas, 8 anaplastic gliomas, 11 glioblastomas, and 11 solitary metastases. We carried out brain MRS and dynamic perfusion-weighted echoplanar MRI in all cases. Perfusion was assessed in the centre of the lesion and in the area of maximum contrast-enhancement. In MRS, we found significant differences in Choline/Creatine ratios in relation to the tumour type with the highest values in high-grade gliomas and metastases. A Ch/Cr ratio equal or higher than 1.78 predicted malignancy at 80% sensitivity and 73% specificity. We found no significant differences in the relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV) for every type of tumour. The mean rCBV was 1.24 for benign tumours and 1.5 for the malignant ones(1.24 for low-grade gliomas, 1.91 for anaplastic gliomas, 1.03 for glioblastomas, and 1.57 for metastases). We conclude that, individually considered, MRS is superior to Perfusion-weighted MRI in the initial assessment of brain tumours. Perfusion MRI has not demonstrated predictive power to distinguish malignant from benign tumours.
A comparison of the PROCAM and Framingham point-scoring systems for estimation of individual risk of coronary heart disease in the Second Northwick Park Heart Study.	We have compared the predictive value of the PROCAM and Framingham risk algorithms in healthy UK men from the Second Northwick Park Heart Study (NPHS-II) (50-64 years at entry), followed for a median of 10.8 years for coronary heart disease (CHD) events. For PROCAM, the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was 0.63 (95% CI, 0.59-0.67), and not significantly different (p = 0.46) from the Framingham score, 0.62 (0.58-0.66). Sensitivities for a 5% false-positive rate (DR(5)) were 13.8 and 12.4%, respectively. Calibration analysis for PROCAM gave a ratio of observed to expected events of 0.46 (Hosmer-Lemeshow test, p < 0.0001) and 0.47 for Framingham (p < 0.0001). Using measures taken at 5 years of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and (estimated) low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels increased the ROC by only 1%. An NPHS-II risk algorithm, developed using a 50% random subset, and including age, triglyceride, total cholesterol, smoking status, and systolic blood pressure at recruitment, gave an ROC of 0.64 (0.58-0.70) with a DR(5) of 10.7% when applied to the second half of the data. Adding family history and diabetes increased the DR(5) to 18.4% (p = 0.28). Adding lipoprotein(a) >26.3 mg/dL (relative risk 1.6, 1.1-2.4) gave a DR(5) of 15.5% (p = 0.55), while adding fibrinogen levels (relative risk for 1S.D. increase = 1.5, 1.1-2.0) had essentially no additional impact (DR(5) = 16.9%, p = 0.95). Thus, the PROCAM algorithm is marginally better as a risk predictor in UK men than the Framingham score, but both significantly overestimate risk in UK men. The algorithm based on NPHS-II data performs similarly to those for PROCAM and Framingham with respect to discrimination, but gave an improved ratio of observed to expected events of 0.80 (p = 0.01), although no score had a high sensitivity. Any novel factors added to these algorithms will need to have a major impact on risk to increase sensitivity above that given by classical risk factors.
Lifetime prevalence and age-of-onset distributions of DSM-IV disorders in the National Comorbidity Survey Replication.	Little is known about lifetime prevalence or age of onset of DSM-IV disorders.
Medical audit of mammography: a simplified alternative.	Assessing radiologists' mammographic interpretation and performing a complete audit of a mammographic practice are notoriously difficult and time consuming. The authors propose a simplified method for accomplishing a satisfactory medical audit. A search of the 1987 pathological reports of St. Michael's Hospital in Toronto yielded 153 patients who underwent excisional biopsy of the breast and for whom preoperatively obtained mammograms were available. The medical records of the patients were reviewed to obtain demographic data, as well as information as to whether the excised lesions had been palpable and the stage of the tumour. The mammograms of the patients were categorized retrospectively by four independent observers. The findings were correlated with the results of the pathological examinations and analysed with receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Forty-five nonpalpable and 121 palpable lesions were identified, of which 70 were malignant and 96 benign. The positive predictive value of mammography for the nonpalpable lesions was 20%. Three of the 9 nonpalpable cancers and 35 of the 56 palpable ones had metastasized to the axillary lymph nodes. The area under the ROC curves for the four radiologists ranged from 0.84 to 0.89. This audit method in inexpensive and easily applied.
Regional observer performance variation in the evaluation of gated cardiac blood pool studies.	Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis demonstrated that regional variations of sensitivity exist in the detection of wall motion abnormality in cardiac blood pool imaging studies. The observer response is significantly better in the apex than either the septum or posterolateral wall segments. The observer errors tend to be false-negative in the posterolateral wall segment and false-positive in the other two segments. Image presentation can make a significant difference to the overall sensitivity, and the monochrome cine-sequence performed best in this study.
The use of continuous and discrete confidence judgments in receiver operating characteristic studies of diagnostic imaging techniques.	Virtually all receiver operating characteristic (ROC) studies of medical imaging methods have involved data collected on a discrete confidence-rating scale, though in principle ROC studies can be conducted with either discrete or continuous scales. Continuous scales provide potential advantages in medical applications of ROC analysis, but the possible dependence of ROC results on the kind of scale used in an observer-performance experiment has not been investigated empirically. The authors conducted a multi-observer ROC study in which radiologists read abdominal computed tomography (CT) examination results displayed on a workstation with a high-resolution video monitor. Ninety-five examinations were evaluated by five radiologists who reported their confidence concerning the presence of abdominal masses on a conventional five-category discrete scale and, in a separate reading session, on a continuous subjective-probability scale. ROC analysis showed no statistically significant difference between the detection accuracies (Az) achieved with the two scales by any reader. Accuracies averaged over all readers were identical with the two scales. The results of this study suggest that discrete or continuous scales often can be used interchangeably in image-evaluation studies. However, the authors recommend continuous scales for routine use in radiologic ROC studies because of their potential advantages in some situations.
A comparative study of the performance of screening tests for senile dementia using receiver operating characteristics analysis.	The discriminability of three types of test for the detection of senile dementia was assessed within a French sample of 155 normal elderly and 120 persons with mild or moderate senile dementia using Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC) analysis. Results suggest that despite differences in the content of the three instruments, they are equally discriminant. Methods involving direct cognitive examination were found to lose discriminability in relation to milder forms of dementia, whereas an informant questionnaire was found to perform equally as well on cases of mild and moderate dementia. The informant questionnaire was also found to produce lower refusal rates and to be less influenced by the place of residence of the elderly person. The problem of selecting cut-off points according to the range of predicted prevalence rates of dementia for the general population is also discussed.
Comparison of a novel assay for breast cancer mucin to CA15-3 and carcinoembryonic antigen.	To compare the sensitivity and specificity of an automated microparticle enzyme immunoassay (MEIA) for breast cancer mucin (IMx BCM; Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, IL) to that of CA15-3 and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) for detecting and monitoring breast cancer.
Peripheral arterial Doppler ultrasonography: diagnostic criteria.	Fifty-one patients (86 legs) were studied from the aorta to the popliteal artery with both duplex ultrasonography and arteriography with the intention of establishing diagnostic ultrasonographic criteria for degrees of stenosis greater than 50% and determining the effect of multi-segment disease on the accuracy of these criteria. Receiver operator characteristic curves were used to determine diagnostic criteria for greater than 50%, greater than 70%, greater than 90% diameter stenoses or occlusions. A stenosis of greater than 70% was diagnosed either if the peak systolic velocity was more than 160 cm/sec (sensitivity 77%, specificity 90%) of if there was an increase in peak systolic velocity of 100% with respect to the arterial segment above the stenosis (sensitivity 80%, specificity 93%). Sequential stenoses were detected with lesser sensitivities. Ratio criteria were more accurate than peak systolic velocity for all degrees of stenosis. For detection of occlusion, duplex ultrasonography was 92% sensitive and 99% specific.
Cerebrospinal fluid tau and beta-amyloid in Alzheimer patients, disease controls and an age-matched random sample.	We prospectively evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-beta-amyloid1-42 (Abeta42), -total-tau (tau) and -phosphorylated-tau181 (p-tau181) as measured by sandwich ELISAs in the clinical routine of a community state hospital to discriminate between patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), healthy controls (HC), non-AD-dementias, a group composed of various psychiatric disorders (non-AD-dementias, mental diseases) and an age-matched random sample (RS) (total N=219). By comparing patients with AD to HC as reference, tau revealed sensitivity (sens)/specificity (spec) of 88%/80%, p-tau(181) 88%/80%, tau/Abeta42-ratio 81%/85% and phospho-tau(181)/Abeta42-ratio 81%/78%. Discriminative power between HC and all dementias under investigation was estimated lower for tau (78%/77%) and p-tau(181) (73%/79%). Relative to patients with AD, ROC analysis for the RS revealed highest sens/spec for p-tau181 (79%/77%) and p-tau181/Abeta42 ratio (78%/75%). Differentiation between AD versus a group made of patients with various psychiatric disorders was optimised by using CSF-p-tau181 (80%/77%). Under clinical routine conditions current CSF-biomarkers show a substantial capacity to discriminate between AD and HC as reference and to mark off AD patients from RS and heterogeneous diagnostic groups composed of non-AD dementias and other psychiatric conditions. Despite a residual substantial overlap between the groups, we conclude that current CSF markers are well suited to support AD-related diagnostic procedures in every-day clinics.
3-D imaging and quantitative comparison of human dentitions and simulated bite marks.	This study presents a technique developed for 3-D imaging and quantitative comparison of human dentitions and simulated bite marks. A sample of 42 study models and the corresponding bites, made by the same subjects in acrylic dental wax, were digitised by laser scanning. This technique allows image comparison of a 3-D dentition with a 3-D bite mark, eliminating distortion due to perspective as experienced in conventional photography. Cartesian co-ordinates of a series of landmarks were used to describe the dentitions and bite marks, and a matrix was created to compare all possible combinations of matches and non-matches using cross-validation techniques. An algorithm, which estimated the probability of a dentition matching its corresponding bite mark, was developed. A receiver operating characteristic graph illustrated the relationship between values for specificity and sensitivity. This graph also showed for this sample that 15% of non-matches could not be distinguished from the true match, translating to a 15% probability of falsely convicting an innocent person.
Diagnostic role of new Doppler index in assessment of renal artery stenosis.	Renal artery stenosis (RAS) is one of the main causes of secondary systemic arterial hypertension. Several non-invasive diagnostic methods for RAS have been used in hypertensive patients, such as color Doppler ultrasound (US). The aim of this study was to assess the sensitivity and specificity of a new renal Doppler US direct-method parameter: the renal-renal ratio (RRR), and compare with the sensitivity and specificity of direct-method conventional parameters: renal peak systolic velocity (RPSV) and renal aortic ratio (RAR), for the diagnosis of severe RAS.
Use of body mass index to identify obesity-related metabolic disorders in the Chinese population.	To identify the body mass index (BMI; in kg/m2) cutoff that predicts the risk for obesity-related metabolic disorders for the Chinese population.
Attentional processes discriminate between patients with mild Alzheimer's disease and cognitively healthy elderly.	It is generally accepted that Alzheimer's disease (AD) is mainly characterized by memory disorders. Although recent studies also point to an important role of attention deficits early in the disease, this notion has not yet emerged in clinical practice. Our aim was to assess whether attention, quantified by reaction times, can discriminate between patients with mild AD and controls and therefore contribute to clinical diagnosis.
A new discrimination method for the Concealed Information Test using pretest data and within-individual comparisons.	A latent class discrimination method is proposed for analyzing autonomic responses on the concealed information test. Because there are significant individual differences in autonomic responses, individual response patterns are estimated on the pretest. Then an appropriate discriminant formula for the response pattern of each individual is applied to the CIT test results. The probability that the individual concealed information is calculated by comparing the discriminant formula value of the crime-related item to that of non-crime-related items. The discrimination performance of the latent class discrimination method was higher than those of the logistic regression method and the discriminant analysis method in an experimental demonstration applying the three methods to the same data set.
Identification of women at risk of adverse weight development following pregnancy.	It has been known for long time that pregnancy associated with weight problems women but few important factors have been identified, except for weight gain during pregnancy itself.
A GIS-based zoning of illegal dumping potential for efficient surveillance.	To assist in the efficient surveillance against illegal dumping, this study examined and evaluated two methods to illustrate the illegal dumping potential of sites using GIS (Geographic Information System) data. One approach focused on the occurrence of illegal dumping sites; the other on the size of the illegal dumping. Both approaches to zoning were implemented for the Kanto region of Japan, utilizing seven or eight major geographical attributes most closely related to illegal dumping. The zoning results revealed the areas requiring patrols against illegal dumping. Evaluation of the zoning results using the ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristic) curve showed the number of illegal dumping sites detectable under certain surveillance conditions and that the size-based zoning was superior, but this superiority was insignificant for revealing sites with higher potential for large illegal dumping, for which it would be sufficient to use the occurrence-based zoning. The evaluation also showed the contribution of each geographical attribute. Finally, application of the ROC curve to the surveillance planning process was examined, which enables the total social cost of pollution by illegal dumping, rehabilitation of dumping sites, and illegal dumping surveillance to be minimized.
A comparison of denominator degrees of freedom methods for multiple observer ROC analysis.	There are several methods available for analysing multireader ROC studies that generalize results to both the reader and case populations. Two of these methods--the Dorfman-Berbaum-Metz (DBM) method and the Obuchowki-Rockette (OR) method--appear to be quite different in their original formulations. However, recently it has been shown that the DBM and OR procedures yield the same test statistic when based on the same accuracy measure and covariance estimation method, but inferences can vary depending on which denominator degrees of freedom (ddf) method, DBM or OR, is used. I show in simulations that there are problems with both ddf methods: OR is ultraconservative with significance levels considerably below the nominal level, and DBM can result in extremely wide confidence intervals because the ddf can be close to zero. I propose a new ddf method that overcomes both of these problems and can be used with either the OR or DBM procedure.
Could 2'5'-oligoadenylate synthetase isoforms be biomarkers to differentiate between disease flare and infection in lupus patients? A pilot study.	2'5'-Oligoadenylate synthetase (OAS) was shown to be related to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) 20 years ago, and was rediscovered to be involved in type I interferon pathway in SLE by several microarray gene expression studies recently. The goal of this study was to investigate OAS isoform expressions in lupus patients, to evaluate whether they could become biomarkers to differentiate between disease flare and infection. Fifty-four SLE patients presented with fever or systemic inflammatory syndrome, or both, were enrolled. Gene expressions of OAS1, OAS2, and OASL were studied by using real time PCR in active SLE (SLEDAI >or=9, n=29) and in those complicated with infections (n=25). The latter group was composed of 19 patients with invasive bacterial infections, and six patients with viral infections. C reactive protein (CRP) and other clinical parameters were also measured. Twenty-nine healthy individuals made up a normal control group. The mRNA expressions of OAS1, OAS2, and OASL were higher in patients with lupus flares than those with infections (p<0.03), or normal controls (p<0.001). SLE complicated with infections have higher OAS1 expression level (P=0.002), lower OASL (P=0.004), and equivalent OAS2 (P=0.135), when compared with those of normal controls. OASL expression level was negatively correlated with infection in lupus by logistic regression analysis (p=0.008). Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for the prediction of infection was 0.92 (p<0.0001) for OASL, and 0.77 (p=0.007) for CRP. Therefore, our preliminary data suggest that the pattern of OAS isoform expressions, OASL in particular, may provide useful information in differentiating disease flares from certain infections in SLE.
Diagnostic value of serological tests against Pseudomonas aeruginosa in a large cystic fibrosis population.	Serological methods to monitor Pseudomonas aeruginosa colonisation in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) are advocated but the diagnostic value of a commercially available P aeruginosa antibody test to detect early and chronic P aeruginosa colonisation in a non-research setting has not been assessed.
Prediction of survival from resuscitation: a prognostic index derived from multivariate logistic model analysis.	Despite advances in resuscitation, the ability to predict survival at cardiac arrests remains unsophisticated. We identified the factors determining outcome of all cardiopulmonary resuscitations performed at our institution over a 4-year period, and used a Cox multivariate regression model to design prognostic indices to assess the probability of successful resuscitation and hospital discharge. Cardiac arrests (710) were studied, and 193 (28%) were successfully resuscitated. The most influential variables, judged by the size and significance of their logistic regression coefficients, were rhythm, resuscitation delay, and age (for successful resuscitation), and rhythm, performance of intubation and defibrillation, defibrillation delay, and age (for survival until discharge). The combination of these in a prognostic index reliably predicted both outcome (area under the receiver operating curve of 0.78), and survival until discharge (area under the curve of 0.80).
ROC and confusion analysis of structure comparison methods identify the main causes of divergence from manual protein classification.	Current classification of protein folds are based, ultimately, on visual inspection of similarities. Previous attempts to use computerized structure comparison methods show only partial agreement with curated databases, but have failed to provide detailed statistical and structural analysis of the causes of these divergences.
A comparison of citation metrics to machine learning filters for the identification of high quality MEDLINE documents.	The present study explores the discriminatory performance of existing and novel gold-standard-specific machine learning (GSS-ML) focused filter models (i.e., models built specifically for a retrieval task and a gold standard against which they are evaluated) and compares their performance to citation count and impact factors, and non-specific machine learning (NS-ML) models (i.e., models built for a different task and/or different gold standard).
Differentiation of tuberculous meningitis from acute bacterial meningitis using simple clinical and laboratory parameters.	Tuberculous meningitis (TBM) is still a major cause of serious illness in many parts of the world. The newer diagnostic tests and neuroimaging methods are unlikely to be available in many developing countries. We attempt to identify simple parameters for early diagnosis. A retrospective study was performed to compare the clinical and laboratory features of cultured-confirmed, TBM (134) and other bacterial meningitis (709). Features independently predictive of TBM were studied by multivariate logistic regression to develop a diagnostic rule. Six features were found predictive: length of clinical history >5 days, headache, total cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) white blood cell count of <1000/mm3, clear appearance of CSF, lymphocyte proportion of >30%, and protein content of >100 mg/dL. Application of 3 or more parameters revealed 93% sensitivity and 77% specificity. Applying this diagnostic rule can help in the early diagnosis of TBM, in both children and adults.
Operon information improves gene expression estimation for cDNA microarrays.	In prokaryotic genomes, genes are organized in operons, and the genes within an operon tend to have similar levels of expression. Because of co-transcription of genes within an operon, borrowing information from other genes within the same operon can improve the estimation of relative transcript levels; the estimation of relative levels of transcript abundances is one of the most challenging tasks in experimental genomics due to the high noise level in microarray data. Therefore, techniques that can improve such estimations, and moreover are based on sound biological premises, are expected to benefit the field of microarray data analysis
Prediction of maternal complications and adverse infant outcome at admission for temporizing management of early-onset severe hypertensive disorders of pregnancy.	We explored the association between clinical parameters at admission and the subsequent development of major maternal complications or adverse infant outcome in women with hypertensive complications of pregnancy remote from term.
Regularized binormal ROC method in disease classification using microarray data.	An important application of microarrays is to discover genomic biomarkers, among tens of thousands of genes assayed, for disease diagnosis and prognosis. Thus it is of interest to develop efficient statistical methods that can simultaneously identify important biomarkers from such high-throughput genomic data and construct appropriate classification rules. It is also of interest to develop methods for evaluation of classification performance and ranking of identified biomarkers.
Abnormal glucose tolerance in Chinese women with polycystic ovary syndrome.	The aims of this study were to analyse the prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) in Chinese polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) patients and to assess the ability of screening tests to predict these abnormalities within this population.
Which two questions of Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) should we start from?	The MMSE is a simple and commonly used instrument to evaluate cognitive impairment. With the aim of enabling the examiner to skip a large portion of the MMSE when screening subjects with lower possibility of cognitive impairment, we examined the internal distribution of the MMSE scores among 792 older adults visiting a teaching hospital, a long-term care hospital, nursing homes, and a geriatric clinic. The correlation coefficients between the summed scores of any two items of MMSE and the total score were compared. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was drawn to show the sensitivity and the specificity of predicting cognitive impairment, which was defined by the total MMSE score being less than 24. The mean MMSE score was 20.5 +/- 6.9 (+/-S.D.). A good predictor for cognitive impairment was the summed scores of the time orientation and serial sevens with a sensitivity of 98.2% and a specificity of 69.2% if cut-off was set at 7/7+. This finding appears to help streamline the screening process for cognitive impairment in general elderly population.
Temperature curve complexity predicts survival in critically ill patients.	Temperature curve complexity is inversely related to clinical status in critically ill patients.
The shortened disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand questionnaire (QuickDASH): validity and reliability based on responses within the full-length DASH.	The 30-item disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand (DASH) questionnaire is increasingly used in clinical research involving upper extremity musculoskeletal disorders. From the original DASH a shorter version, the 11-item QuickDASH, has been developed. Little is known about the discriminant ability of score changes for the QuickDASH compared to the DASH. The aim of this study was to assess the performance of the QuickDASH and its cross-sectional and longitudinal validity and reliability.
Moderators of delay tolerance in treatment-seeking cocaine users.	A substantial amount of attrition in cocaine dependence treatment studies occurs between the initial telephone contact and the first evaluative clinic visit. While decreasing the wait to first visit can significantly reduce pre-intake attrition (PIA), little is known about other factors that moderate delay tolerance for first clinic visit. The current report uses data from 833 subjects who completed a first-contact telephone interview prior to an intake evaluation visit for cocaine use treatment research. Hierarchical logistic regression was used to assess three successive models to predict PIA, with the most inclusive model testing interactions between delay interval and seven predictors: age, gender, treatment motivation, recency of cocaine, alcohol, and tobacco use, and self-reported depression. Consistent with previous reports, greater delay to first clinic visit predicted PIA. However, no evidence for the moderating role of the selected factors was found. Overall, the utility of the logistic models, built on basic demographic and psychiatric factors, was poor, as evaluated using receiver-operator characteristic curves. Alternative factors must be examined to identify predictors that will increase probability of initial enrolment in cocaine-dependence clinical trials.
Evaluation of the impact of addition of PET to CT and MR scanning in the staging of patients with head and neck carcinomas.	The addition of whole body positron emission tomography (PET) to the investigation of patients with newly diagnosed head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) was assessed over a 6-month period. Staging investigations included laryngoscopy, oesophagoscopy, CXR, CT and MRI. In addition, all patients had an extended-field (whole body) FDG-PET scan and were restaged. Standardised Uptake Values (SUV) were used to measure FDG uptake. SUV levels above 5 were considered indicative of the presence of tumour, values below 3 indicative of benign aetiology and values equal to and between 3 and 5 were considered equivocal. Forty-eight consecutive patients with biopsy proven HNSCC were included for study. Three patients presenting with neck disease had unknown primary tumours. Of the remaining 45 patients, CT scan correctly identified 40 of the primary tumours (89%). MRI and PET both identified 41 primary tumours (91%). Thirty-two patients underwent neck dissection. Of these patients 12 had pathologically N0 necks and 20 had positive nodal disease. CT scan and MRI each correctly staged pN0 necks in 10 of 12 patients (83%) whereas PET alone had a lower true negative rate of 8 out of 12 patients (67%). PET correctly staged the N+ necks in 14/20 patients (70%) versus 12/20 (60%) for MRI, and 8/20 (40%) for CT alone. All four patients who were judged to have distant metastases by PET had these metastases deemed negative by other investigation. None of the three imaging modalities was able to identify the tumour site in the three patients with unknown primaries. In conclusion, although PET has got a higher sensitivity in detecting nodal disease, it has only slightly improved the classification of N+ necks. The findings of this study cast doubt on the merit of routine addition of PET to the current investigative protocols for HNSCC patients.
A new method to investigate the response to the morphology discrimination algorithm in patients with ICD.	Inappropriate therapy for supraventricular tachyarrhythmia is still a major problem in implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD). The morphology discrimination algorithm compares the morphology of a tachycardia electrogram with a stored template on a beat-to-beat basis. However, algorithm responders could not yet be identified prior to the occurrence of first tachycardia episodes. We analyzed whether rapid atrial pacing and/or exercise testing can be used for identification of responders and compared the results with ICD detected tachycardia.
Increased plasma concentrations of activin a predict intraventricular hemorrhage in preterm newborns.	Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) is a major cause of neurologic disabilities in preterm newborns. We evaluated the use of plasma activin A concentrations to predict the development of perinatal IVH.
Postmortem pericardial natriuretic peptides as markers of cardiac function in medico-legal autopsies.	Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) in the blood are clinical markers for the diagnosis of cardiac failure. This study was a comprehensive analysis of the postmortem pericardial levels of the natriuretic peptides in serial medico-legal autopsy cases (n=263, within 72 h postmortem) to assess their validity in investigating cardiac function. There was no significant relationship of pericardial ANP or BNP levels with postmortem time or the age of the subjects. The ANP and BNP levels showed negative correlations with the pericardial cardiac troponin T level. The ANP level was significantly elevated in drowning cases. Pericardial BNP and the BNP/ANP ratio were significantly higher for chronic congestive heart disease. However, asphyxiation, sharp instrument injury, hyperthermia, and fatal MA poisoning cases showed lower levels for both markers. These observations suggest that elevations in the postmortem pericardial ANP and BNP may mainly depend on acute atrial overload and subacute or chronic cardiac failure, respectively, and may be reduced by advanced myocardial damage.
Application of an acceptance sampling plan for post-production quality control of chemotherapeutic batches in an hospital pharmacy.	About 26,000 chemotherapeutic batches were produced in 2003 in the Institute Gustave Roussy and 83% were qualitatively and quantitatively assessed in post-production controls via an analytical platform. The rate of non-conformity (outside the specification limits of the target concentration +/-10%) decreased from 8.9% to 2.2% between years 2001 and 2003. A cost- and time-saving acceptance sampling plan was applied to assay fewer batches whilst maintaining an accurate estimate of the quality level.
The bronchodilator test in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: interpretation methods.	The objective of the study was to evaluate the best method for interpreting the bronchodilator test (BDT). Five formulas for expressing the BDT results were analyzed and compared: changes experienced by maximum expiratory volume in 1s (FEV(1)) and forced vital capacity (FVC) measured in milliliters, in percentage with respect to the baseline, in percentage with respect to the predicted, in percentage with respect to the possible, and in standardized residuals. Ninety-eight chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients were submitted to a respiratory function test on two different days. On each occasion three spirometries were conducted: basal, post-placebo and post bronchodilator. As a gold standard, a normality interval was defined using the variability experienced with the placebo between the two days of the study. The best formulas according to their sensitivity, specivity and area under receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve were the "standardized residuals", with a cut point of .3, and the "percentage with respect to the predicted" with a cut point of 6%.
Evaluation of microarray data normalization procedures using spike-in experiments.	Recently, a large number of methods for the analysis of microarray data have been proposed but there are few comparisons of their relative performances. By using so-called spike-in experiments, it is possible to characterize the analyzed data and thereby enable comparisons of different analysis methods.
Plasma concentrations of interleukin-6, organ failure, vasopressor support, and successful coronary revascularization in predicting 30-day mortality of patients with cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction.	Inflammation may play an important role in the pathogenesis, persistence, and prognosis of cardiogenic shock. We analyzed whether elevated plasma concentrations of inflammatory markers are independently associated with an adverse prognosis (increased 30-day mortality rate) in patients with cardiogenic shock.
Fetal pulmonary artery diameter measurements as a predictor of morbidity in antenatally diagnosed congenital diaphragmatic hernia: a prospective study.	The objective of the study was to examine the size and growth of fetal pulmonary artery diameters in congenital diaphragmatic hernia and assess their correlation with postnatal survival and morbidity outcomes.
Direct comparison of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) and amino-terminal proBNP in a large population of patients with chronic and symptomatic heart failure: the Valsartan Heart Failure (Val-HeFT) data.	The B-type or brain natriuretic peptides (BNP) and the amino-terminal probrain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) are good markers of prognosis and diagnosis in chronic heart failure (HF). It is unclear, however, whether differences in their biological characteristics modify their clinical correlates and prognostic performance in HF. This work aimed to provide a direct comparison of the prognostic value of BNP and NT-proBNP in patients with chronic and stable HF.
Predicting tissue HER2 status using serum HER2 levels in patients with metastatic breast cancer.	Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) are reliable ways to identify overexpression or amplification of the HER-2/neu (HER2, symbol ERBB2) gene, but each technique requires a high-quality tissue sample, which may not be available. We investigated whether serum concentrations of the HER2 extracellular domain (ECD) can be used as an alternative to tissue HER2 status in metastatic breast cancer, and we defined an optimal decision-level concentration of serum HER2 for prediction of tissue HER2 status.
Artificial neural network algorithms for early diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction and prediction of infarct size in chest pain patients.	To prospectively validate artificial neural network (ANN)-algorithms for early diagnosis of myocardial infarction (AMI) and prediction of 'major infarct' size in patients with chest pain and without ECG changes diagnostic for AMI.
Prediction of Plasmodium falciparum placental infection according to the time of infection during pregnancy.	Malarial infection during pregnancy leads to placental infection, a known risk factor for low birth weight. Whether the stage of pregnancy at infection has a differential influence on these effects is not clearly known, but may be of importance for prevention strategies, including intermittent preventive treatment of pregnant women. Malaria infection during early (before 20 weeks), middle (20-28 weeks), or late (after 28 weeks) pregnancy was evaluated by logistic regression and receiver operating characteristics analysis in relation to placental infection in pregnant Senegalese women. Plasmodium falciparum infections during late pregnancy are strongly related to placental infection, as well as those that occur in middle pregnancy. Knowledge of parasitological events over the entire duration of pregnancy permits a highly accurate prediction of placental infection. Not only malaria infections during late pregnancy increase the likelihood of placental infection. The current policy of intermittent preventive treatment of pregnant women, which implies an initial antimalarial cure after 20 weeks of pregnancy, will not avoid early infections. An earlier initiation of malaria prevention might improve its efficacy.
Breast masses: computer-aided diagnosis with serial mammograms.	To retrospectively evaluate effects of computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) involving an interval change classifier (which uses interval change information extracted from prior and current mammograms and estimates a malignancy rating) on radiologists' accuracy in characterizing masses on two-view serial mammograms as malignant or benign.
Development and validation of the Geriatric Anxiety Inventory.	Anxiety symptoms and anxiety disorders are highly prevalent among elderly people, although infrequently the subject of systematic research in this age group. One important limitation is the lack of a widely accepted instrument to measure dimensional anxiety in both normal old people and old people with mental health problems seen in various settings. Accordingly, we developed and tested of a short scale to measure anxiety in older people.
Imaging markers of mild cognitive impairment: multivariate analysis of CBF SPECT.	This study aimed to investigate cross-sectional and longitudinal changes of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in preclinical dementia using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). SPECT and cognitive function were investigated in 39 mild cognitive impairment (MCI) subjects and 20 age-matched controls. All subjects were followed longitudinally 19 months on average, 16 MCI subjects progressed to Alzheimer's disease (AD), who were retrospectively defined as progressive mild cognitive impairment (PMCI) at baseline and 23 MCI subjects remained stable and were defined as stable mild cognitive impairment (SMCI) at baseline. SPECT was performed both at the initial investigation and at follow-up. Image data were analyzed using multivariate analysis, SPM and volume of interest (VOI)-based analysis. Significant covariate patterns were derived, which differentiate among PMCI, SMCI and controls at baseline as well as describe the longitudinal progression of PMCI. The combined SPECT and neuropsychology increased the diagnostic accuracy of PMCI at baseline. SPECT and neuropsychological testing can be used objectively for both baseline diagnosis and to monitor changes in brain function during very early AD.
Evaluation of comorbidity scores to predict all-cause mortality in patients with established coronary artery disease.	To assess the value of scores based on the presence of comorbid conditions for mortality risk-stratification in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) METHODS: We prospectively followed 305 males with CAD undergoing coronary angiography for 58 months. We correlated the modified Charlson Index (MCI) and the recently proposed CAD-specific index (CSI) with the risk of all-cause mortality.
Correlation of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol concentrations determined by LC-MS-MS in oral fluid and plasma from impaired drivers and evaluation of the on-site Drger DrugTest.	Oral fluid (collected with the Intercept((R)) device) and plasma samples were obtained from 139 individuals suspected of driving under the influence of drugs and analyzed for Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the major psychoactive constituent of cannabis, using a validated quantitative LC-MS-MS method. The first aim of the study was to investigate the correlation between the analytical data obtained in the plasma and oral fluid samples, to evaluate the use of oral fluid as a 'predictor' of actual cannabis influence. The results of the study indicated a good accuracy when comparing THC detection in oral fluid and plasma (84.9-95.7% depending on the cut-off used for plasma analysis). ROC curve analysis was subsequently used to determine the optimal cut-off value for THC in oral fluid with plasma as reference sample, in order to 'predict' a positive plasma result for THC. When using the LOQ of the method for plasma (0.5 ng/mL), the optimal cut-off was 1.2 ng/mL THC in oral fluid (sensitivity, 94.7%; specificity, 92.0%). When using the legal cut-off in Belgium for driving under the influence in plasma (2 ng/mL), an optimal cut-off value of 5.2 ng/mL THC in oral fluid (sensitivity, 91.6%; specificity, 88.6%) was observed. In the second part of the study, the performance of the on-site Drger DrugTest for the screening of THC in oral fluid during roadside controls was assessed by comparison with the corresponding LC-MS-MS results in plasma and oral fluid. Since the accuracy was always less than 66%, we do not recommend this Drger DrugTest system for the on-site screening of THC in oral fluid.
Timing of fluoride intake in relation to development of fluorosis on maxillary central incisors.	Several studies have focused on the timing of fluoride intake relative to the development of dental fluorosis. This study reports the relationships of fluoride intake during the first 48 months of life with fluorosis on early-erupting permanent teeth.
Meta-analysis of plethysmography and rheography in the diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis.	Plethysmography and rheography techniques have been widely studied as diagnostic tests for deep vein thrombosis (DVT). This study aimed to systematically review the accuracy of these tests for diagnosing clinically suspected DVT.
Diagnosis of primary sclerosing cholangitis: a blinded comparative study using magnetic resonance cholangiography and endoscopic retrograde cholangiography.	We hypothesized that magnetic resonance cholangiography (MRC) may have less accuracy for the diagnosis and the assessment of the severity of primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) than endoscopic retrograde cholangiography (ERC).
Serum procalcitonin and other biologic markers to distinguish between bacterial and aseptic meningitis.	To identify the biologic tests that best distinguish between bacterial and aseptic meningitis in an emergency department (ED).
Comparison of 2 acute renal failure severity scores to general scoring systems in the critically ill.	Several proposed definitions for acute renal failure (ARF) exist, but little is known of their significance in clinical practice. We evaluated the ability to predict hospital mortality in 2 ARF-specific severity-of-illness scoring methods, the Risk, Injury, Failure, Loss, End-Stage Renal Disease (RIFLE) score and the score presented by Bellomo et al in 2001.
Peripheral arterial occlusive disease is more prevalent in patients with hemodialysis: comparison with the findings of multidetector-row computed tomography.	Peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD) influences the mortality of patients on hemodialysis therapy. Although the ankle-brachial pressure index (ABI) is used widely to detect PAOD, it yields false-negative results because of calcifications of vascular walls. To more accurately assess the prevalence of PAOD, we investigated which noninvasive method, among ABI, toe-brachial pressure index, transcutaneous Po(2), and skin perfusion pressure (SPP), had superior sensitivity and specificity to the others.
Predictive risk score for infection after inguinal hernia repair.	Identification of subgroups of patients at high and low risk for global infectious complications (GIC) after inguinal hernia repair without mesh.
Meta-analysis of diagnostic and screening test accuracy evaluations: methodologic primer.	Interest in evidence-based diagnosis is growing rapidly as diagnostic and screening techniques proliferate. In this article we provide an overview of systematic reviews of diagnostic performance and discuss in detail statistical methods for the most common variant of the problem: meta-analysis of studies in which a pair of estimates of sensitivity and specificity is reported. The need to account for possible variations in threshold for test positivity across studies led to the formulation of the Summary ROC (SROC) curve method. We discuss graphical and model-based ways to estimate, summarize, and compare SROC curves, and we present an example from a meta-analysis of data on techniques for staging cervical cancer. We also present a brief survey of the methodologic literature for addressing heterogeneity, correlated data, multiple thresholds per study, and systematic reviews of ROC studies. We conclude with a discussion of the significant methodologic challenges that continue to face investigators in this area of diagnostic medicine research.
Aspartate aminotransferase to platelet ratio index in patients with alcoholic liver fibrosis.	Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) to platelet ratio index (APRI) has been proposed as an easily determined and accurate noninvasive marker of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C. To validate APRI in hepatitis C and to determine its usefulness in other liver diseases, we evaluated APRI in patients with liver fibrosis due to excessive alcohol consumption with or without viral hepatitis C.
Evaluation of model for end-stage liver disease for prediction of mortality in decompensated chronic hepatitis B.	We aimed to study the predictive ability of model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) for short-term mortality in chronic hepatitis B.
Computer-assisted evaluation of perianal fistula activity by means of anal ultrasound in patients with Crohn's disease.	Assessment of the activity of perianal fistulas may be of clinical relevance in patients with Crohn's disease. Fistula activity is currently evaluated by means of magnetic resonance imaging; anal ultrasound can also be used, but its diagnostic performance in this setting remains to be defined. Our aims were to evaluate the agreement between clinical examination, magnetic resonance imaging, and anal ultrasound in assessing perianal fistula activity, and to apply computerized analysis to improve the assessment of ultrasound images.
Maximum standard uptake value of mediastinal lymph nodes on integrated FDG-PET-CT predicts pathology in patients with non-small cell lung cancer.	Positron emission tomography (PET) scans often help direct biopsies of mediastinal lymph nodes in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but the maximum standard uptake value (maxSUV) of individual nodes has not been evaluated.
Corneal elevation indices in normal and keratoconic eyes.	To determine an index that distinguishes keratoconus and keratoconus-suspect eyes from normal eyes with Orbscan (Bausch & Lomb) corneal elevation maps.
Can adiponectin predict gestational diabetes?	The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether adiponectin is a predictive factor for gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) and is appropriate as a screening test for GDM. Three-hundred and fifty-nine women with singleton pregnancy and indications for GDM screening according to criteria of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists were enrolled in the study between July 5, 2004 and March 11, 2005. After confirming gestational age (GA) and number of fetuses by ultrasound, all women underwent a 1-h glucose challenge test with 50 g glucose load (50-g GCT) between 21 and 27 weeks of GA. Blood samples for determination of adiponectin levels were also obtained on the same day. Subsequently, between 24 and 28 weeks of GA, the women underwent an oral glucose tolerance test with 100 g glucose load (100-g OGTT). The diagnosis of GDM was established when two or more of the following criteria were fulfilled: (1) fasting glucose >95 mg/dl; (2) 1-h glucose >180 mg/dl; (3) 2-h glucose >155 mg/dl; (4) 3-h glucose >140 mg/dl. Sixty women were diagnosed with GDM, a prevalence of 16.7%. There was no difference in age between the GDM and non-GDM groups. Pre-pregnancy and sampling-day body mass index (BMI), increase in weight and all blood glucose levels were greater in women with GDM than in those without (p < 0.05). Adiponectin concentrations were significantly negatively correlated with GA and plasma glucose levels of the GCT and each OGTT. Using logistic regression analyses, adiponectin, but not age, pre-pregnancy BMI and increase in weight, was demonstrated as an independent predictive factor for GDM. The area under the receiver-operator characteristic curve of adiponectin was significantly lower than that of the GCT [0.63 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.53-0.67) vs. 0.73 (95% CI 0.71-0.80), p < 0.001]. At a cut-off value of 140 mg/dl of the 50-g GCT, the sensitivity and specificity of the test were 90% and 61%, respectively. The 50-g GCT could identify GDM in 54 (90%) out of 60 women. On the other hand, at an arbitrary cut-off value of 10 microg/ml for adiponectin, sensitivity of 91% and specificity of 31% were achieved. If this cut-off value was used for ruling in or out pregnant women for the GDM screening, 27% of all women could be eliminated from needing to perform an OGTT, with five women (8.3%) misclassified. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that adiponectin was an independent predictor for GDM. As for GDM screening, adiponectin was not as strong a predictor as GCT. However, with advantage of being less cumbersome, adiponectin could be used to rule out pregnant women at low risk of GDM.
Classification of breast lesions with multimodality computer-aided diagnosis: observer study results on an independent clinical data set.	To evaluate a computer-aided diagnosis multimodality intelligent workstation as an aid to radiologists in the interpretation of mammograms and breast sonograms.
Clinical prognostic rules for severe acute respiratory syndrome in low- and high-resource settings.	An accurate prognostic model for patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) could provide a practical clinical decision aid. We developed and validated prognostic rules for both high- and low-resource settings based on data available at the time of admission.
Comparison between GDx VCC parameter and achromatic perimetry in glaucoma patients.	To evaluate the correlation between polarimetry parameters and standard threshold perimetry indices.
Improving glaucoma diagnosis by the combination of perimetry and HRT measurements.	The aim of this study was to determine, whether the combination of morphologic data of the optic nerve head and visual field (VF) data would improve diagnosis of glaucoma, on the basis of the measurements alone.
Humphrey matrix frequency doubling technology perimetry and optical coherence tomography measurement of the retinal nerve fiber layer thickness in both normal and ocular hypertensive subjects.	The purpose of this study was to determine by means of the Humphrey Matrix frequency doubling technology (FDT) perimetry and the optical coherence tomography (OCT) retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness measurement whether functional and/or structural differences exist between normal and ocular hypertensive (OHT) subjects.
Validation of the cedars-sinai score in the prediction of rebleeding and mortality in non variceal upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage]	Upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage is a serious health problem with mortality rates that have remained unchanged for the last years in spite of improvements in management.
Diagnostic accuracy of CD4 cell count increase for virologic response after initiating highly active antiretroviral therapy.	To derive and internally validate a clinical prediction rule for virologic response based on CD4 cell count increase after initiation of HAART in a resource-limited setting.
Hemoconcentration and pancreatic necrosis: further defining the relationship.	In the setting of acute pancreatitis, an admission hematocrit greater than or equal to 44% and/or a failure of hematocrit to drop at 24 hours have been reported as useful markers to predict subsequent necrosis. We aimed to validate the use of hemoconcentration as a marker to predict necrosis in adult patients presenting with acute pancreatitis.
Clinical application of spectral electromagnetic interaction in breast cancer: diagnostic results of a pilot study.	There is a need for a cost-effective method to safely reduce the number of diagnostic procedures women undergo for breast cancer. We tested a new procedure for breast cancer diagnosis based on breast tissue response to low level electromagnetic incident waves.
Cerebrospinal fluid amyloid beta42/phosphorylated tau ratio discriminates between Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.	The differentiation of Alzheimer's disease (AD) from vascular dementia (VaD) is hampered by clinical diagnostic criteria with disappointing sensitivity and specificity. The objective of this study was to investigate whether cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of total tau protein (t-tau), amyloid beta42 protein (Abeta42), and tau phosphorylated at threonine 181 (p-tau181) are useful biomarkers to distinguish AD patients from VaD patients.
Combination of fetal Doppler velocimetric resistance values predict acidemic growth-restricted neonates.	This study was undertaken to determine the efficacy of combination Doppler velocimetric resistance values of the umbilical artery and ductus venosus in predicting growth-restricted neonates with acidemia.
Variability of blood glucose concentration and short-term mortality in critically ill patients.	Intensive insulin therapy may reduce mortality and morbidity in selected surgical patients. Intensive insulin therapy also reduced the SD of blood glucose concentration, an accepted measure of variability. There is no information on the possible significance of variability in glucose concentration.
A new way for multidimensional medical data management: volume of interest (VOI)-based retrieval of medical images with visual and functional features.	The advances in digital medical imaging and storage in integrated databases are resulting in growing demands for efficient image retrieval and management. Content-based image retrieval (CBIR) refers to the retrieval of images from a database, using the visual features derived from the information in the image, and has become an attractive approach to managing large medical image archives. In conventional CBIR systems for medical images, images are often segmented into regions which are used to derive two-dimensional visual features for region-based queries. Although such approach has the advantage of including only relevant regions in the formulation of a query, medical images that are inherently multidimensional can potentially benefit from the multidimensional feature extraction which could open up new opportunities in visual feature extraction and retrieval. In this study, we present a volume of interest (VOI) based content-based retrieval of four-dimensional (three spatial and one temporal) dynamic PET images. By segmenting the images into VOIs consisting of functionally similar voxels (e.g., a tumor structure), multidimensional visual and functional features were extracted and used as region-based query features. A prototype VOI-based functional image retrieval system (VOI-FIRS) has been designed to demonstrate the proposed multidimensional feature extraction and retrieval. Experimental results show that the proposed system allows for the retrieval of related images that constitute similar visual and functional VOI features, and can find potential applications in medical data management, such as to aid in education, diagnosis, and statistical analysis.
Temporal subtraction of dual-energy chest radiographs.	Temporal subtraction and dual-energy imaging are two enhanced radiography techniques that are receiving increased attention in chest radiography. Temporal subtraction is an image processing technique that facilitates the visualization of pathologic change across serial chest radiographic images acquired from the same patient; dual-energy imaging exploits the differential relative attenuation of x-ray photons exhibited by soft-tissue and bony structures at different x-ray energies to generate a pair of images that accentuate those structures. Although temporal subtraction images provide a powerful mechanism for enhancing visualization of subtle change, misregistration artifacts in these images can mimic or obscure abnormalities. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether dual-energy imaging could improve the quality of temporal subtraction images. Temporal subtraction images were generated from 100 pairs of temporally sequential standard radiographic chest images and from the corresponding 100 pairs of dual-energy, soft-tissue radiographic images. The registration accuracy demonstrated in the resulting temporal subtraction images was evaluated subjectively by two radiologists. The registration accuracy of the soft-tissue-based temporal subtraction images was rated superior to that of the conventional temporal subtraction images. Registration accuracy also was evaluated objectively through an automated method, which achieved an area-under-the-ROC-curve value of 0.92 in the distinction between temporal subtraction images that demonstrated clinically acceptable and clinically unacceptable registration accuracy. By combining dual-energy soft-tissue images with temporal subtraction, misregistration artifacts can be reduced and superior image quality can be obtained.
The validity of the hospital anxiety and depression scale and the geriatric depression scale in Parkinson's disease.	We assessed the concurrent validity of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) against the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (Ham-D) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Forty-six non-demented PD patients were assessed by a neurologist on the Ham-D. Patients also completed four mood rating scales: the HADS, the GDS, the VAS and the Face Scale. For the HADS and the GDS, Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC) curves were obtained and the positive and negative predictive values (PPV, NPV) were calculated for different cut-off scores. Maximum discrimination between depressed and non-depressed PD patients was reached at a cut-off score of 10/11 for both the HADS and the GDS. At the same cut-off score of 10/11 for both the HADS and the GDS, the high sensitivity and NPV make these scales appropriate screening instruments for depression in PD. A high specificity and PPV, which is necessary for a diagnostic test, was reached at a cut-off score of 12/13 for the GDS and at a cut-off score of 11/12 for the HADS. The results indicate the validity of using the HADS and the GDS to screen for depressive symptoms and to diagnose depressive illness in PD.
The use of 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional color and power-Doppler in the diagnosis of blood flow indices of adnexal tumors]	The purpose of this study was to compare 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional color and power-Doppler as measured with blood flow indices for the prediction of malignancy in complex adnexal masses.
An effective cluster-based model for robust speech detection and speech recognition in noisy environments.	This paper shows an accurate speech detection algorithm for improving the performance of speech recognition systems working in noisy environments. The proposed method is based on a hard decision clustering approach where a set of prototypes is used to characterize the noisy channel. Detecting the presence of speech is enabled by a decision rule formulated in terms of an averaged distance between the observation vector and a cluster-based noise model. The algorithm benefits from using contextual information, a strategy that considers not only a single speech frame but also a neighborhood of data in order to smooth the decision function and improve speech detection robustness. The proposed scheme exhibits reduced computational cost making it adequate for real time applications, i.e., automated speech recognition systems. An exhaustive analysis is conducted on the AURORA 2 and AURORA 3 databases in order to assess the performance of the algorithm and to compare it to existing standard voice activity detection (VAD) methods. The results show significant improvements in detection accuracy and speech recognition rate over standard VADs such as ITU-T G.729, ETSI GSM AMR, and ETSI AFE for distributed speech recognition and a representative set of recently reported VAD algorithms.
ST-segment depression in non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes: quantitative analysis may not provide incremental prognostic value beyond comprehensive risk stratification.	It is unclear whether quantitative ST-segment assessment can improve risk stratification of unselected acute coronary syndrome (ACS) patients using the validated Global Registry of Acute Cardiac Events (GRACE) risk model.
Predicting significant coronary artery disease in patients with left ventricular dysfunction.	Because coronary artery disease (CAD) is a prevalent comorbidity in patients with low ejection function (EF), a number of patients with heart failure undergo diagnostic cardiac catheterization. The objective of this study was to develop a model to assist clinicians in determining the likelihood of CAD before cardiac catheterization.
Risk stratification of patients with chronic kidney disease: results of screening strategies incorporating clinical risk scoring and dobutamine stress echocardiography.	Cardiac disease is the principal cause of death in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Ischemia at dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) is associated with adverse events in these patients. We sought the efficacy of combining clinical risk evaluation with DSE.
Clinical symptoms and the odds of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1-associated myelopathy/ tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) in healthy virus carriers: application of best-fit logistic regression equation based on host genotype, age, and provirus load.	The authors have previously developed a logistic regression equation to predict the odds that a human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1)-infected individual of specified genotype, age, and provirus load has HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) in southern Japan. This study evaluated whether this equation is useful predictor for monitoring asymptomatic HTLV-1-seropositive carriers (HCs) in the same population. The authors genotyped 181 HCs for each HAM/TSP-associated gene (tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-alpha-863A/C, stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1) +801G/A, human leukocyte antigen [HLA]-A*02, HLA-Cw*08, HTLV-1 tax subgroup) and measured HTLV-1 provirus load in peripheral blood mononuclear cells using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Finally, the odds of HAM/TSP for each subject were calculated by using the equation and compared the results with clinical symptoms and laboratory findings. Although no clear difference was seen between the odds of HAM/TSP and either sex, family history of HAM/TSP or adult T-cell lenkemia (ATL), history of blood transfusion, it was found that brisk patellar deep tendon reflexes, which suggest latent central nervous system compromise, and flower cell-like abnormal lymphocytes, which is the morphological characteristic of ATL cells, were associated with a higher odds of HAM/TSP. The best-fit logistic regression equation may be useful for detecting subclinical abnormalities in HCs in southern Japan.
Discrimination between glaucomatous and nonglaucomatous eyes using quantitative imaging devices and subjective optic nerve head assessment.	To compare the diagnostic ability of the confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope (HRT-II; Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany), scanning laser polarimeter (GDx-VCC; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc., Dublin, CA), and optical coherence tomographer (StratusOCT, Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc.) with subjective assessment of optic nerve head (ONH) stereophotographs in discriminating glaucomatous from nonglaucomatous eyes.
Identifying glaucomatous vision loss with visual-function-specific perimetry in the diagnostic innovations in glaucoma study.	To compare the diagnostic results of four perimetric tests and to identify useful parameters from each for determining abnormality.
N-terminal brain natriuretic peptide predicted cardiovascular events stronger than high-sensitivity C-reactive protein in hypertension: a LIFE substudy.	N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (Nt-proBNP) and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) are cardiovascular risk markers in various populations, but are not well examined in hypertension. Therefore, we wanted to investigate whether high Nt-proBNP or hsCRP predicted the composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, non-fatal stroke or non-fatal myocardial infarction independently of traditional cardiovascular risk factors and the urine albumin: creatinine ratio (UACR), which is a well established cardiovascular risk factor in hypertension.
Assessment of enamel demineralization using conventional, digital, and digitized radiography.	This experimental research aimed at evaluating the accuracy of enamel demineralization detection using conventional, digital, and digitized radiographs, as well as to compare radiographs and logarithmically contrast-enhanced subtraction images. Enamel subsurface demineralization was induced on one of the approximal surfaces of 49 sound third molars. Standardized radiographs of the teeth were taken prior to and after the demineralization phase with three digital systems--CygnusRay MPS, DenOptix and DIGORA--and InSight film. Three radiologists interpreted the pairs of conventional, digital, and digitized radiographs in two different occasions. Logarithmically contrast-enhanced subtraction images were examined by a fourth radiologist only once. Radiographic diagnosis was validated by cross-sectional microhardness profiling in the test areas of the approximal surfaces. Accuracy was estimated by Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis. Chi-square test, at a significance level of 5%, was used to compare the areas under the ROC curves (A(z)) calculated for the different imaging modalities. Concerning the radiographs, the DenOptix system (A(z) = 0.91) and conventional radiographs (A(z) = 0.90) presented the highest accuracy values compared with the other three radiographic modalities. However, logarithmically contrast-enhanced subtraction images (A(z) = 0.98) were significantly more accurate than conventional, digital, and digitized radiographs (p = 0.0000). It can be concluded that the DenOptix system and conventional radiographs provide better performance for diagnosing enamel subsurface demineralization. Logarithmic subtraction significantly improves radiographic detection.
High thoracic epidural anesthesia in cardiac surgery: risk factors for arterial hypotension.	There is an interest in the use of high thoracic epidural anesthesia in cardiac surgery, because experimental and clinical studies have suggested that central neuroaxial blockade attenuates the response to surgical stress and improves myocardial metabolism and perioperative analgesia-thus enabling earlier extubation and a smoother postoperative course. Matters of major concern in the adoption of high thoracic epidural anesthesia in cardiac surgery are neurologic injury secondary to neuroaxial hematoma and hypotension secondary to sympatholysis. The risk associated with possible neuraxial hematoma caused by high thoracic epidural anesthesia has been thoroughly investigated and largely discounted, but scant attention has been devoted to the onset of hypotensive episodes in the same setting. We analyzed the hypotensive episodes that occurred in a series of 144 patients who underwent on-pump cardiac surgery procedures. Among the patient variables that we tested in a multivariate logistic-regression model, only female sex was found to be significantly correlated with hypotension. In order to decrease the incidence and severity of hypotensive episodes resulting from anesthetic blockade, anesthesiologists need to monitor, with special care, women patients who are under high thoracic epidural anesthesia. Further studies are needed in order to determine why women undergoing open heart surgery under high thoracic epidural anesthesia are at a relatively greater risk of hypotension.
Detection of citrate overdose in critically ill patients on citrate-anticoagulated venovenous haemofiltration: use of ionised and total/ionised calcium.	The objective of this study was to elucidate the most practical and effective laboratory measurement for monitoring citrate in critically ill patients undergoing citrate-anticoagulated continuous venovenous haemofiltration (CVVH).
Nasal bone hypoplasia in trisomy 21 at 15 to 24 weeks' gestation in A high risk Thai population.	To assess the utility of nasal bone hypoplasia in the detection of fetuses with trisomy 21 in the second trimester in a high risk Thai population.
Prostate-specific antigen adjusted for the transition zone volume as a second screening test: a prospective study of 248 cases.	This study was conducted to verify the effectiveness of prostate-specific antigen adjusted for the transition zone volume (PSATZ), and its availability as a second screening test for prostate cancer detection.
CA-125 levels in ruptured and unruptured tubal ectopic pregnancies.	This prospective, single-blind and controlled clinical study aimed to research if CA-125 levels could be a useful test in the differential diagnosis of intact and ruptured tubal ectopic pregnancy.
Noninvasive ratio indexes to evaluate fibrosis staging in chronic hepatitis C: role of platelet count/spleen diameter ratio index.	Noninvasive evaluation of fibrosis is an on-going effort in the management of chronic hepatitis C. This study was planned to noninvasively evaluate fibrosis staging.
18F-FDG PET is an early predictor of pathologic tumor response to preoperative radiochemotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer.	18F-FDG PET is a useful tool for assessing the effects of chemo- or radiotherapy. The aim of this study was to correlate the change in tumor 18F-FDG standardized uptake value (SUV) during and after preoperative radiochemotherapy, with the pathologic response achieved in locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC) patients.
Imaging prostate cancer with 11C-choline PET/CT.	The ability of 11C-choline and multimodality fusion imaging with integrated PET and contrast-enhanced CT (PET/CT) was investigated to delineate prostate carcinoma (PCa) within the prostate and to differentiate cancer tissue from normal prostate, benign prostate hyperplasia, and focal chronic prostatitis.
Ultrasonographic predictors of unsuccessful cephalic vein approach during pacemaker or defibrillator lead implantation.	The cephalic vein approach is a preferred route for endocardial lead implantation; however, it is associated with a significant failure rate. Anatomic abnormalities likely play an important role, but specific features have not been well characterized.
Receiver operating characteristic analysis for the detection of simulated microcalcifications on mammograms using hardcopy images.	The aim of this study was to compare mammography systems based on three different detectors--a conventional screen-film (SF) combination, an a-Si/CsI flat-panel (FP)-based detector, and a charge-coupled device (CCD)-based x-ray phosphor-based detector--for their performance in detecting simulated microcalcifications (MCs). 112-150 microm calcium carbonate grains were used to simulate MCs and were overlapped with a slab phantom of simulated 50% adipose/50% glandular breast tissue-equivalent material referred to as the uniform background. For the tissue structure background, 200-250 microm calcium carbonate grains were used and overlapped with an anthropomorphic breast phantom. All MC phantom images were acquired with and without magnification (1.8 X). The hardcopy images were reviewed by five mammographers. A five-point confidence level rating was used to score each detection task. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed, and the areas under the ROC curves (A(z)s) were used to compare the performances of the three mammography systems under various conditions. The results showed that, with a uniform background and contact images, the FP-based system performed significantly better than the SF and the CCD-based systems. For magnified images with a uniform background, the SF and the FP-based systems performed equally well and significantly better than the CCD-based system. With tissue structure background and contact images, the SF system performed significantly better than the FP and the CCD-based systems. With magnified images and a tissue structure background, the SF and the CCD-based systems performed equally well and significantly better than the FP-based system. In the detection of MCs in the fibroglandular and the heterogeneously dense regions, no significant differences were found except that the SF system performed significantly better than the CCD-based system in the fibroglandular regions for the contact images.
Age changes the diagnostic accuracy of mean profile and nadir growth hormone levels after oral glucose in postoperative patients with acromegaly.	This analytical, retrospective study was designed to select cut-off thresholds of mean GH levels during a diurnal profile and nadir GH levels after oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) according to age to diagnose surgical remission of acromegaly.
Recovery of global systolic function after primary angioplasty. Influence of coronary flow velocity reserve measured by transthoracic echocardiography.	Our objective were to know whether coronary flow velocity reserve measured by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography, as marker of microvascular integrity, affects the recovery of global systolic function. Secondly, we intended to define the best cut-off point of coronary flow velocity reserve to predict recovery of global systolic function.
Effects of retention intervals on receiver operating characteristics in artificial grammar learning.	Current theories of memory suggest that recognition is composed of separate processes of familiarity and recollection (e.g. [Yonelinas, A. P. (2002). The nature of recollection and familiarity: a review of 30 years of research. Journal of Memory and Language, 46, 441-517]). A key feature of these two processes is that they decay, or are forgotten at different rates. The dual-process model has also been useful in understanding artificial grammar learning. We obtained evidence for recollection and familiarity in artificial grammar learning by analyses of receiver operating characteristics (ROC). Furthermore we found that these were dissociated by retention intervals of 14 days. The slope of the zROC curves deviated reliably from 1 immediately after study and increased towards 1 suggesting that recollection contributed to recognition decisions but declined over the 14-day period leaving familiarity as the only basis for recognition. These data show similar patterns to those observed in word-recognition [Gardiner, J. M., & Java, R. I. (1991). Forgetting in recognition memory with and without recollective experience. Memory &Cognition, 19, 617-623; Tunney, R. J. (submitted for publication). Changes in the subjective experience of recognition over time suggest independent processes] and confirm the view that recollection and familiarity are implicated in artificial grammar learning. Moreover, the data confirm the finding that recollection and familiarity-based memory show different patterns of forgetting.
Low plasma BDNF is associated with suicidal behavior in major depression.	Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), the most abundant neurotrophin in the brain, has a known association with the pathophysiology of anxiety and depression. However, the role of BDNF in suicide has not been well investigated to date. This study examined plasma BDNF levels in 32 major depressive disorder (MDD) patients who had recently attempted suicide, 32 non-suicidal MDD patients, and 30 normal controls. The lethality of the suicide attempt was measured using the Risk-Rescue Rating (RRR) and Lethality Suicide Attempt Rating Scale (LSARS). The severity of depression was measured with the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS). Plasma BDNF levels were measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. BDNF levels were significantly lower in suicidal MDD patients (430.5+/-397.0 pg/ml) than non-suicidal MDD patients (875.80+/-663.02 pg/ml) or normal controls (889.4+/-611.3 pg/ml) (F=6.682, p=0.002). The most suitable cut-off point of BDNF level between suicidal depression and non-suicidal depression groups was 444.58 pg/ml. At this cut-off point, the sensitivity=68.7%, specificity=78.1%, positive predictive value=75.9%, and negative predictive value=71.4%. However, there was no significant difference in BDNF levels between the depressive control and normal control groups (p=0.996). LSARS and RRR did not reveal any significant correlations with BDNF levels in suicidal patients. In addition, BDNF levels were not different between fatal and non-fatal suicide attempts. These results suggest that reduction of plasma BDNF level is related to suicidal behavior in major depression and that BDNF level may be a biological marker of suicidal depression.
Incorporating prior information via shrinkage: a combined analysis of genome-wide location data and gene expression data.	Transcriptional control is a critical step in regulation of gene expression. Understanding such a control on a genomic level involves deciphering the mechanisms and structures of regulatory programmes and networks. A difficulty arises due to the weak signal and high noise in various sources of data while most current approaches are limited to analysis of a single source of data. A natural alternative is to improve statistical efficiency and power by a combined analysis of multiple sources of data. Here we propose a shrinkage method to combine genome-wide location data and gene expression data to detect the binding sites or target genes of a transcription factor. Specifically, a prior 'non-target' gene list is generated by analysing the expression data, and then this information is incorporated into the subsequent binding data analysis via a shrinkage method. There is a Bayesian justification for this shrinkage method. Both simulated and real data were used to evaluate the proposed method and compare it with analysing binding data alone. In simulation studies, the proposed method gives higher sensitivity and lower false discovery rate (FDR) in detecting the target genes. In real data example, the proposed method can reduce the estimated FDR and increase the power to detect the previously known target genes of a broad transcription regulator, leucine responsive regulatory protein (Lrp) in Escherichia coli. This method can also be used to incorporate other information, such as gene ontology (GO), to microarray data analysis to detect differentially expressed genes.
Validity and utility of the Japanese version of the WHO-Five Well-Being Index in the context of detecting suicidal ideation in elderly community residents.	The aim of this study is to evaluate the validity and the utility of the Japanese version of the WHO-Five Well-Being Index (WHO-5-J) in the context of detecting suicidal ideation in elderly community residents.
Tei index in adult patients submitted to adriamycin chemotherapy: failure to predict early systolic dysfunction. Diagnosis of adriamycin cardiotoxicity.	This study prospectively assessed whether Tei index is predictive of early systolic dysfunction in adults undergoing adriamycin treatment.
Challenging the unipolar-bipolar division: does mixed depression bridge the gap?	Mixed states, i.e., opposite polarity symptoms in the same mood episode, question the categorical splitting of mood disorders in bipolar disorders and unipolar depressive disorders, and may support a continuum between these disorders. Study aim was to find if there were a continuum between hypomania (defining BP-II) and depression (defining MDD), by testing mixed depression as a 'bridge' linking these two disorders. A correlation between intradepressive hypomanic symptoms and depressive symptoms could support such a continuum, but other explanations of a correlation are possible.
Accuracy in osteoporosis diagnosis of a combination of mandibular cortical width measurement on dental panoramic radiographs and a clinical risk index (OSIRIS): the OSTEODENT project.	Clinical questionnaires and dental radiographic findings have both been suggested as methods of identifying women at risk of having osteoporosis and who might benefit from bone densitometry. The aim of this study was to measure the diagnostic accuracy of a combination of mandibular cortical width (MCW) measured from dental panoramic radiographs (DPRs) and the osteoporosis index of risk (OSIRIS) in the diagnosis of osteoporosis. 653 women (age range 45-70 years, mean age 54.95 years) in four European centres underwent standardised dual X-ray energy absorptiometry (DXA) to provide reference data on osteoporosis status. Each subject was interviewed to derive OSIRIS scores and underwent DPR examination. MCW was measured directly by five observers. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was used to calculate sensitivities and specificities of the clinical and radiographic tests for the diagnosis of osteoporosis. 512 (78.4%) of the study population were classified as having normal BMD and 141 (21.6%) as having osteoporosis. Using ROC analysis, OSIRIS gave a ROC curve area (A(z)) of 0.838, with a sensitivity of 70.9% and a specificity of 79.5% at a diagnostic threshold of <or=+1. MCW on DPRs gave Az values for the five observers ranging from 0.71 to 0.78, providing sensitivities between 41.0% and 59.6% and specificities of between 81.8% and 90.3% at a diagnostic threshold of a 3 mm MCW and sensitivities between 94.2% and 99.3% and specificities of between 9.8% and 23.7% at a diagnostic threshold of a 4.5 mm MCW. Inter-observer repeatability was less than 2.15 mm for 95% of subjects. Combining clinical and radiographic tests had the effect of improving specificity at the expense of a fall in sensitivity. Diagnostic thresholds for MCW and OSIRIS can be chosen to provide the sensitivity and specificity combination that best suits locally determined needs. However, the addition of OSIRIS as a stepwise 'follow-up' test to radiographic assessment of MCW should only be performed if the aim is to have a test for which the highest achievable specificity is desired.
Volumetric analysis of regional left ventricular function with real-time three-dimensional echocardiography: validation by magnetic resonance and clinical utility testing.	Quantitative information on regional left ventricular volumes from real-time three-dimensional echocardiographic (RT3DE) images has significant clinical potential but needs validation.
Improved validation of peptide MS/MS assignments using spectral intensity prediction.	A major limitation in identifying peptides from complex mixtures by shotgun proteomics is the ability of search programs to accurately assign peptide sequences using mass spectrometric fragmentation spectra (MS/MS spectra). Manual analysis is used to assess borderline identifications; however, it is error-prone and time-consuming, and criteria for acceptance or rejection are not well defined. Here we report a Manual Analysis Emulator (MAE) program that evaluates results from search programs by implementing two commonly used criteria: 1) consistency of fragment ion intensities with predicted gas phase chemistry and 2) whether a high proportion of the ion intensity (proportion of ion current (PIC)) in the MS/MS spectra can be derived from the peptide sequence. To evaluate chemical plausibility, MAE utilizes similarity (Sim) scoring against theoretical spectra simulated by MassAnalyzer software (Zhang, Z. (2004) Prediction of low-energy collision-induced dissociation spectra of peptides. Anal. Chem. 76, 3908-3922) using known gas phase chemical mechanisms. The results show that Sim scores provide significantly greater discrimination between correct and incorrect search results than achieved by Sequest XCorr scoring or Mascot Mowse scoring, allowing reliable automated validation of borderline cases. To evaluate PIC, MAE simplifies the DTA text files summarizing the MS/MS spectra and applies heuristic rules to classify the fragment ions. MAE output also provides data mining functions, which are illustrated by using PIC to identify spectral chimeras, where two or more peptide ions were sequenced together, as well as cases where fragmentation chemistry is not well predicted.
Response to one infusion predicts subsequent improvement as well as the rate of relapse of ankylosing spondylitis infused with three pulses of infliximab.	The objective of this study was to evaluate if there are early clinical parameters in AS patients treated with three standard infusions of infliximab, which would predict whether a patient will derive a significant improvement at the tenth week, or whether there will be a lengthy clinical response after discontinuing the infusions. Sixty three AS patients were given three infusions of 5 mg/kg of infliximab at weeks 0, 2, and 6 and evaluated serially before each infusion and also at week 10. Afterwards, patients were followed up by telephone interview until their disease activities were >60% of the baseline values. At that point, disease was considered to have relapsed. Clinical parameters at baseline as well as at week 2 were used for analysis to identify factors that might predict an improvement at week 10, or predict a delayed relapse. A predictor is regarded as being useful if the area under the curve (AUC) when analyzed by receiver operator calculations (ROC) exceeds 0.75. No parameters at baseline have sufficient predictive values. However, ASAS20 (Assessment in Ankylosing Spondylitis International Working Group criteria) at week 2 predicts improvement at week 10, and also duration of clinical response after discontinuing the infliximab at week 6. The response to one pulse of infliximab is the best predictor of subsequent response as well as rate of relapse after discontinuing the infliximab.
Effectiveness of bone density measurement for predicting osteoporotic fractures in clinical practice.	Bone density measurement with dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry is widely used for fracture risk assessment. It has not been established that published gradients of fracture risk from study populations can be directly applied to clinical populations.
Minimally important change determined by a visual method integrating an anchor-based and a distribution-based approach.	Minimally important changes (MIC) in scores help interpret results from health status instruments. Various distribution-based and anchor-based approaches have been proposed to assess MIC.
Interpreting the color effect of melanin on cocaine and benzoylecgonine assays for hair analysis: brown and black samples compared.	This paper examines the hypothesis that cocaine and BE assays of hair demonstrate a putative bias effect for darker color hair samples. Although such an effect has been reported in the literature, no one has examined this claim outside the bounds of simple significance of mean difference. In this paper a large number of black and brown hair samples are compared for cocaine and BE concentration values, and this comparison is evaluated for both significance and effect size. Two innovative measures are used to assess this relationship - a calculation of effect size using Cohen's d, and the use of an ROC curve to evaluate the potential for a dark color bias. The paper reports mixed results for significance, but consistent results for effect size. There does not appear to be any significant effect for cocaine. While BE demonstrates a significant mean difference, both the effect size and the ROC analysis show the effect to be trivial.
Is the measurement of glycated hemoglobin A1c alone an efficient screening test for undiagnosed diabetes? Japan National Diabetes Survey.	The aim of the study was to assess the screening test properties of HbA1c for undiagnosed diabetes (DM) according to the 1999-WHO criteria and its relevance of the Japan National Diabetes Survey Cut-off points for possible and probable DM: HbA1c >or=5.6 and 6.1%. Screening properties of HbA1c predicting undiagnosed DM was examined and compared with that of fasting plasma glucose (FPG) in 1904 Funagata-town inhabitants aged 35-89 years old. The prevalence of previous DM, undiagnosed DM, and impaired glucose regulation (IGR) were 5.5, 6.0, and 18.6%, while the prevalence of probable and possible DM were 7.7 and 5.4%. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for undiagnosed DM was similar between HbA1c (0.856 [95% CI: 0.812-0.899]) and FPG (0.902 [0.869-0.936]). HbA1c of 5.6% gave a sensitivity of 56.5%, a specificity of 95.1%, positive and negative predictive values of 44.2 and 97.0%, and a proportion of people above the cut-off point of 8.2%. True positive tests were significantly higher with mean levels of BMI, fasting, and 2-h plasma glucose, and HbA1c, but lower with mean levels of high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol than in false negative tests. The measurement of HbA1c alone may be efficient to screen undiagnosed DM and the cut-off point of 5.6% might be proper with respect to screening tests properties for undiagnosed DM, and prediction of vascular complications in Japan.
MR imaging of the ankle at 3 Tesla and 1.5 Tesla: protocol optimization and application to cartilage, ligament and tendon pathology in cadaver specimens.	The objective of this study was to optimize ankle joint MR imaging in volunteers at 1.5 Tesla (T) and 3.0 T, and to compare these optimized sequences concerning image quality and performance in assessing cartilage, ligament and tendon pathology in fresh human cadaver specimens. Initially our clinical ankle protocol consisting of T1-weighted (-w), fat-saturated (fs) T2-w, and short tau inversion-recovery fast spinecho (FSE) sequences was optimized at 1.5 T and 3.0 T by two radiologists. For dedicated cartilage imaging, fs-intermediate (IM)-w FSE, fs spoiled gradient echo, and balanced free-precession steady-state sequences were optimized. Using the optimized sequences, thirteen cadaver ankle joints were imaged. Four radiologists independently assessed these images concerning image quality and pathology. All radiologists consistently rated image quality higher at 3.0 T (all sequences p<0.05). For detecting cartilage pathology, diagnostic performance was significantly higher at 3.0 T (ROC-values up to 0.93 vs. 0.77; p<0.05); the fs-IM FSE sequence showed highest values among the different sequences. Average sensitivity for detecting tendon pathology was 63% at 3.0 T vs. 41% at 1.5 T and was significantly higher at 3.0 T for 2 out of 4 radiologists (p<0.05). Compared to 1.5 T, imaging of the ankle joint at 3.0 T significantly improved image quality and diagnostic performance in assessing cartilage pathology.
Is overactivity the core feature of hypomania in bipolar II disorder?	Recent studies found that overactivity (increased goal-directed activities) may be as important as mood change (elevated and/or irritable mood) for the diagnosis of mania/hypomania (on family history and psychometric grounds), questioning DSM-IV-TR criteria always requiring mood change and listing overactivity among the other symptoms. The aim of the study was to find out if overactivity was at least as important as mood change for the diagnosis of hypomania.
Evaluation of macular thickness measurements for detection of band atrophy of the optic nerve using optical coherence tomography.	To evaluate the ability of optical coherence tomography (OCT) macular thickness parameters to differentiate between eyes with band atrophy (BA) of the optic nerve and healthy eyes.
Smooth semiparametric receiver operating characteristic curves for continuous diagnostic tests.	We propose a semiparametric kernel distribution function estimator, based on which a new smooth semiparametric estimator of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve is constructed. We derive the asymptotic bias and variance of the newly proposed distribution function estimator and show that it is more efficient than the traditional non-parametric kernel distribution estimator. We also derive the asymptotic bias and variance of our new ROC curve estimator and show that it is more efficient than the smooth non-parametric ROC curve estimator proposed by Zou et al. (Stat. Med. 1997; 16:2143-2156) and Lloyd (J. Am. Stat. Assoc. 1998; 93:1356-1364). For our proposed estimators, we derive data-based methods for bandwidth selection. In addition, we present some results on the analysis of two real data sets. Finally, a simulation study is presented to show that our estimators are better than the non-parametric counterparts in terms of bias, standard error, and mean-square error.
Cardiac filling pressures are not appropriate to predict hemodynamic response to volume challenge.	Values of central venous pressure of 8-12 mm Hg and of pulmonary artery occlusion pressure of 12-15 mm Hg have been proposed as volume resuscitation targets in recent international guidelines on management of severe sepsis. By analyzing a large number of volume challenges, our aim was to test the significance of the recommended target values in terms of prediction of volume responsiveness.
Determining a cut-off on the Severity of Dependence Scale (SDS) for alcohol dependence.	Optimal cut-off points on the Severity of Dependence Scale (SDS) indicative of clinically significant dependence have been determined for a range of substance types. This study aims to determine a cut-off point on SDS that discriminates between the presence and absence of a DSM-IV diagnosis of alcohol dependence. A structured interview was administered to 90 alcohol users in Sydney, Australia. Receiver Operating Characteristic curve analysis confirmed the utility of the SDS-alcohol for characterising and diagnosing persons with respect to their alcohol-dependent status to an accuracy of 85%. A SDS score of 3 or above was determined as optimal for characterising alcohol dependence. Evidence is also provided confirming that the SDS-alcohol is a valid, reliable uni-dimensional scale for measuring alcohol dependence. It has been demonstrated that the SDS-alcohol can be used to characterise an individual's alcohol-dependent status. A cut-off value for SDS-alcohol provides additional meaning and value to the scale for clients and clinicians and will enable researchers to characterise the prevalence of alcohol dependence in their target populations.
Unified QSAR approach to antimicrobials. Part 2: predicting activity against more than 90 different species in order to halt antibacterial resistance.	There are many different kinds of pathogenic bacteria species with very different susceptibility profiles to different antibacterial drugs. One limitation of QSAR models is that they consider the biological activity of drugs against only one species of bacteria. In a previous paper, we developed a unified Markov model to describe the biological activity of different drugs tested in the literature against some antimicrobial species. Consequently, predicting the probability with which a drug is active against different species of bacteria with a single unified model is a goal of major importance. The work described here develops the unified Markov model to describe the biological activity of more than 70 drugs from the literature tested against 96 species of bacteria. We applied linear discriminant analysis (LDA) to classify drugs as active or inactive against the different tested bacterial species. The model correctly classified 199 out of 237 active compounds (83.9%) and 168 out of 200 inactive compounds (84%). Overall training predictability was 84% (367 out of 437 cases). Validation of the model was carried out using an external predicting series, with the model classifying 202 out of 243 (i.e., 83.13%) of the compounds. In order to show how the model functions in practice, a virtual screening was carried out and the model recognized as active 84.5% (480 out of 568) antibacterial compounds not used in the training or predicting series. The current study is an attempt to calculate within a unified framework the probabilities of antibacterial action of drugs against many different species.
Detection of masses and microcalcifications of breast cancer on digital mammograms: comparison among hard-copy film, 3-megapixel liquid crystal display (LCD) monitors and 5-megapixel LCD monitors: an observer performance study.	The purpose of the study was to compare observer performance in the detection of masses and microcalcifications of breast cancer among hard-copy reading and soft-copy readings using 3-megapixel (3M) and 5-megapixel (5M) liquid crystal display (LCD) monitors. For the microcalcification detection test, we prepared 100 mammograms: 40 surgically verified cancer cases and 60 normal cases. For the mass detection test, we prepared 100 mammograms: 50 cancer cases and 50 normal cases. After six readers assessed both microcalcifications and masses set for each modality, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed. The average A(z)s for mass detection using a hard copy and 3M and 5M LCD monitors were 0.923, 0.927 and 0.920, respectively; there were no significant differences. The average A(z) for microcalcification detection using hard copy, 3M and 5M LCD monitors was 0.977, 0.954 and 0.972, respectively. There were no significant differences, but the P-values between the hard copy and 3M LCD monitor and that between the 3M and 5M LCD monitor were 0.08 and 0.09, respectively. In conclusion, the observer performances for detecting masses of breast cancers were comparable among the hard copy and two LCD monitors; however, soft-copy reading with a 3M LCD monitor showed slightly lower observer performance for detecting microcalcifications of breast cancers than hard-copy or 5M LCD monitor reading.
Utility of the fibrinogen/C-reactive protein ratio for the diagnosis of disseminated intravascular coagulation.	Although the presence of decreased plasma fibrinogen has been regarded as an indicator of ongoing disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), fibrinogen, which is one of the acute phase reactants, is often increased in the patients with DIC. We investigated the diagnostic and prognostic utility of a new parameter [the fibrinogen/C-reactive protein (CRP) ratio] for predicting DIC in 1,056 patients with suspected DIC and who also had underlying disorders associated with DIC. Among the 535 patients with overt DIC, 46 patients (8.6%) showed low plasma fibrinogen (<100 mg/dl), suggesting that the plasma fibrinogen level is not a sensitive marker for DIC. There was a strong correlation between the increased DIC scores and increased number of patients with low (<104) fibrinogen/CRP ratios. Among the three groups with different serum fibrinogen/fibrin degradation product levels, the fibrinogen/CRP ratio showed a higher difference than did the fibrinogen level. The DIC score was highly correlated with the 28-day mortality and the number of patients with low fibrinogen/CRP ratios. The odds ratio (the relative risk of 28-day mortality) of the low fibrinogen/CRP ratio was 6.15, while the odds ratio of the low fibrinogen level was 2.13. The area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve of the fibrinogen/CRP ratio, when this was used for predicting mortality, showed significantly better discriminative power than did that of the fibrinogen level. This study demonstrates that the fibrinogen/CRP ratio may provide more discriminating power for identifying the patients with active coagulation consumption, and the fibrinogen/CRP ratio has a good predictive value concerning the 28-day mortality in the patients suspected of having DIC. The results of our study suggest that replacement of fibrinogen by the fibrinogen/CRP ratio for calculating the DIC score may lead to enhance diagnostic and prognostic power for DIC.
Validity of the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale as a screening instrument of major depressive disorder among Japanese workers.	The Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) is used at workplaces to screen depressive disorders. The aim of this study was to examine the validity of the CES-D for depression in a workplace.
Predicting carcinoid heart disease with the noisy-threshold classifier.	To predict the development of carcinoid heart disease (CHD), which is a life-threatening complication of certain neuroendocrine tumors. To this end, a novel type of Bayesian classifier, known as the noisy-threshold classifier, is applied.
Comparison of clinical staging systems in predicting survival of hepatocellular carcinoma patients receiving major or minor hepatectomy.	To compare the utility of seven commonly used staging systems in the prediction of survival among patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) undergoing major or minor hepatectomy.
Improved breast cancer prognosis through the combination of clinical and genetic markers.	Accurate prognosis of breast cancer can spare a significant number of breast cancer patients from receiving unnecessary adjuvant systemic treatment and its related expensive medical costs. Recent studies have demonstrated the potential value of gene expression signatures in assessing the risk of post-surgical disease recurrence. However, these studies all attempt to develop genetic marker-based prognostic systems to replace the existing clinical criteria, while ignoring the rich information contained in established clinical markers. Given the complexity of breast cancer prognosis, a more practical strategy would be to utilize both clinical and genetic marker information that may be complementary.
Candidate gene genotypes, along with conventional risk factor assessment, improve estimation of coronary heart disease risk in healthy UK men.	One of the aims of cardiovascular genetics is to test the efficacy of the use of genetic information to predict cardiovascular risk. We therefore investigated whether inclusion of a set of common variants in candidate genes along with conventional risk factor (CRF) assessment enhanced coronary heart disease (CHD)-risk algorithms.
A multiple-center survey on the use in clinical practice of noninvasive ventilation as a first-line intervention for acute respiratory distress syndrome.	In randomized studies of heterogeneous patients with hypoxemic acute respiratory failure, noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NPPV) was associated with a significant reduction in endotracheal intubation. The role of NPPV in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is still unclear. The objective was to investigate the application of NPPV as a first-line intervention in patients with early ARDS, describing what happens in everyday clinical practice in centers having expertise with NPPV.
Prostate cancer screening: the clinical value of diffusion-weighted imaging and dynamic MR imaging in combination with T2-weighted imaging.	To evaluate the clinical value of diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and dynamic MRI in combination with T2-weighted imaging (T2W) for the detection of prostate cancer.
Arterial stiffness and progression to hypertension in Japanese male subjects with high normal blood pressure.	This observational study was conducted to compare the significance of the relationship between arterial stiffness and progression to higher blood pressure categories among middle-aged Japanese men with high normal blood pressure (HNP), normal blood pressure (NRP) and optimal blood pressure (OPP).
The psychometric discriminative properties of the Peters et al Delusions Inventory: a receiver operating characteristic curve analysis.	To establish sensitivity, specificity, and discriminative validity of the Peters et al Delusions Inventory (PDI), a recently released self-compiled questionnaire aimed at measuring psychosis proneness in the general population.
Evaluation of a Digene-recommended algorithm for human papillomavirus low-positive results present in a "retest zone".	The Digene Hybrid Capture 2 (hc2) high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA test (Digene, Gaithersburg, MD) is widely used for triage of women with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance. Results in a "retest zone" (weakly positive tests) are repeated up to 2 times according to the Digene-recommended algorithm. We studied 56 cervical samples in the retest zone. Specimens were tested by a multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based genotyping assay, and relevant cytopathologic results were reviewed. Digene results were compared with a reference standard that combined PCR genotyping and cytopathology results. The first repeated Digene assay yielded a sensitivity of 85.2% and a specificity of 62.1% with false-positive and false-negative rates of 40.0% and 15.4%, respectively. The 22 negative samples underwent a second retest and 18 (82%) were negative by the reference standard. The combined first and second retest sensitivity, specificity, and predictive values remained unchanged from the first retest alone. Repeating specimens in the retest zone is necessary, but a second retest does not offer advantages over the first retest.
Diagnosis of breast tumors by contrast-enhanced MR imaging: comparison between the diagnostic performance of dynamic enhancement patterns and morphologic features.	To compare the diagnostic performance of breast lesions by the enhancement patterns and morphologic criteria on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Breast MRI lesion classification: improved performance of human readers with a backpropagation neural network computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) system.	To develop and test a computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) system to improve the performance of radiologists in classifying lesions on breast MRI (BMRI).
Evaluation of an existing nomogram for predicting the response to clomiphene citrate.	To evaluate the ability of an existing nomogram to predict response to clomiphene citrate (CC) in infertile couples with World Health Organization group II ovulatory disorders, using the free androgen index, body mass index, and menstrual-cycle history.
Imaging of prostate cancer.	The role of imaging in the diagnosis and management of prostate is reviewed. Transrectal ultrasonography, which can be used to guide biopsy, is most frequently used imaging technique in cancer detection. For determining the extent of disease, CT and MR imaging are the most commonly used modalities; bone scintigraphy and positron emission tomography have roles only in advanced disease. Currently, the role of imaging in prostate cancer is evolving to improve disease detection and staging, to determine the aggressiveness of disease, and to predict outcomes in different patient populations
Is there a link between hyperbilirubinemia and elevated urine nitrite.	The aim of this study was to determine whether hyperbilirubinemia affects the association between a positive urine nitrite test and a positive urine culture.
Prognostic implications of myocardial necrosis triad markers' concentration measured at admission in patients with suspected acute coronary syndrome.	The aim of the study was to analyze the prognostic implications of 3 myocardial necrosis markers measured at admission in short-term observation of patients with suspected acute coronary syndrome. The study group consisted of 336 consecutive patients whose concentration of cardiac troponin I, creatine kinase-MB fraction, and myoglobin were measured at admission. All patients referred due to chest pain and suspected acute coronary syndrome and were followed up for 30 days. The patients who died had statistically higher concentration of cardiac troponin I (8.7 +/- 17.2 vs 0.9 +/- 3.2 ng/mL; P = .0006), myoglobin (215.2 +/- 181.5 vs 109.7 +/- 151.5 ng/mL; P = .003), and creatine kinase-MB (21.9 +/- 30.7 vs 8.8 +/- 25.9 ng/mL; P = .005), compared to patients who stayed alive. There was statistically significant increase in 30-day all-cause mortality with increasing numbers of positive markers-0.6% for patients with nonpositive marker, 3.4% for patients with 1 positive marker, and 11.5% for patients with at least 2 positive markers (P = .001 for trend).
Revalidation of the Score for Neonatal Acute Physiology in the Vermont Oxford Network.	Our specific objectives were (1) to document the performance of the revised Score for Neonatal Acute Physiology and the revised Score for Neonatal Acute Physiology Perinatal Extension in predicting death in the Vermont Oxford Network, compared with published normative values; (2) to determine whether this performance could be improved through recalibration of the weights for individual score items; (3) to determine the impact of including congenital anomalies in the predictive model; and (4) to compare performance against that of the Vermont Oxford Network risk adjustment, separately and in combination.
Comparison of lesion-to-cerebellum uptake ratios and standardized uptake values in the evaluation of lung nodules with 18F-FDG PET.	To evaluate the clinical performance of the lesion-to-cerebellum uptake ratio (LCR), a semiquantitative index for differentiating malignant from benign lung nodules with [F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (F-FDG PET).
Multislice computed tomography for determination of coronary artery disease in a symptomatic patient population.	Multislice computed tomography (MSCT) has started to replace Electron beam CT for quantitation of coronary artery calcium. However no study has evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of MSCT for prediction of coronary artery disease (CAD) in a symptomatic patient population using the volume score.
Non-conventional flow cytometry approaches to detect anti-Trypanosoma cruzi immunoglobulin G in the clinical laboratory.	We have recently developed a flow cytometric approach to detect anti-live trypomastigote and anti-fixed epimastigote IgG antibodies (FC-ALTA and FC-AFEA) in sera from individuals infected by Trypanosoma cruzi. Here, we present the first evaluation of the applicability of FC-AFEA-IgG as a diagnostic tool for Chagas disease. Performance analysis demonstrated that FC-AFEA-IgG has a sensitivity of 82% and a specificity of 100%. The assessment for prognosis performed by FC-ALTA-IgG1 and FC-AFEA-IgG, after classification of chagasic patients as belonging to indeterminate (IND), cardiac (CARD) or digestive (DIG) clinical forms, showed that most of IND have higher amounts of IgG than individuals' carrying CARD or DIG Chagas disease. FC-AFEA-IgG was also evaluated as a method to monitor chemotherapy efficacy in individuals classified into three distinct categories: not treated (NT), treated but not cured (TNC), and treated and cured (TC). Performance analysis demonstrated that FC-AFEA-IgG has an extraordinary capacity as a serological criterion to assess cure after therapeutic intervention in Chagas disease. These results represent a great advance in the application of serological techniques for clinical investigations on Chagas disease, and they clearly define new directions and perspectives. We intend to continue this field research focusing our attention on the influence of the degree of clinical damage on the FC-ALTA-IgG1 and FC-AFEA-IgG reactivity.
MRI for the determination of pituitary iron overload in children and young adults with beta-thalassaemia major.	Hypogonadism, resulting from iron-induced pituitary dysfunction, is the most frequently reported complication in patients with beta-thalassaemia major. The aim of this study was to evaluate pituitary Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) signal intensity reduction, on T2*-weighted images, as a marker of pituitary iron overload. Thirty patients (13 females and 17 males, mean age: 16.6+/-4.1) with beta-thalassaemia major on conventional treatment and 13 healthy volunteers (7 females and 6 males, mean age: 11+/-4.51 years) were studied with T2*-weighted images of the anterior pituitary using a 1.5T unit. Four thalassaemic patients (2 females and 2 males) had clinical hypogonadism and required hormonal replacement treatment. Results revealed a statistically significant reduction of pituitary signal intensity in the thalassaemia group compared to controls (p<0.001). Moreover, hypogonadal patients had significantly decreased MRI values compared to thalassaemic patients without hypogonadism (p=0.017). Relatively decreased adeno-hypophyseal MRI signal intensity was recorded in pubertal thalassaemic patients. A significant negative correlation was observed between pituitary MRI values and age (r=-0.67, r(2)=0.443, p=0.001), whereas ferritin levels and pituitary MRI values were moderately correlated (r=-0.56, r(2)=0.32, p=0.08) in adult thalassaemic patients. In conclusion, pituitary MRI indices as measured on T2*-weighted images seem to reflect pituitary iron overload and could, therefore, be used for a preclinical detection of patients who are in greater danger of developing hypogonadism.
A quantitative indirect ELISA to monitor the effectiveness of rabies vaccination in domestic and wild carnivores.	This paper reports a new ELISA to measure the level of rabies anti-glycoprotein G antibodies after vaccination. The Platelia Rabies II kit was evaluated on different populations of dogs, cats and foxes. For each target species, sera from naive, unvaccinated and vaccinated animals were tested. Platelia Rabies II results were compared to the reference fluorescent antibody virus neutralisation test (for dogs and cats) and to a published in house ELISA test (for foxes). The Platelia Rabies II test was found to be highly specific whatever the species (more than 98%) using a cut-off value of 0.5 EU/ml. The index of sensitivity was between 92.4% and 94.5% for fox samples, and reached 83% for domestic carnivores. Data collected by testing field samples revealed that the rate of false negative results ranged between 8.9% and 11.1% and the rate of false positive results ranged between 1% and 2% for the dog/cat population. Therefore, the Platelia Rabies II test described here would be a good candidate for routine detection of rabies antibodies not only in domestic carnivores (within the framework of international trade) but also in foxes for the follow up of rabies oral vaccination programs.
Alcohol screening in general practices using the AUDIT: how many response categories are necessary?	The Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) is a common screening instrument. This study analyses if response categories of the AUDIT might be dichotomized without affecting the psychometric properties of the questionnaire.
An obesity paradox in acute heart failure: analysis of body mass index and inhospital mortality for 108,927 patients in the Acute Decompensated Heart Failure National Registry.	Prior studies on chronic systolic heart failure (HF) have demonstrated that body mass index (BMI) is inversely associated with mortality, the so-called obesity paradox. The aim of this study was to determine whether BMI influences the mortality risk in acute decompensated HF, a subject not previously studied.
Scar burden by myocardial perfusion imaging predicts echocardiographic response to cardiac resynchronization therapy in ischemic cardiomyopathy.	About 30% of patients with heart failure do not respond to cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT). We hypothesized that scar burden can predict poor response to CRT in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM).
Risk prediction in patients presenting with suspected cardiac pain: the GRACE and TIMI risk scores versus clinical evaluation.	Identifying which patients presenting with undifferentiated chest pain are at risk of major cardiac events is a major clinical challenge. Clinical evaluation may lack sufficient precision, leading to unnecessary admission or inappropriate discharge. It is uncertain whether risk scores derived from ACS populations apply to unselected patients with chest pain.
Quasi-continuous and discrete confidence rating scales for observer performance studies: Effects on ROC analysis.	To examine the effects of the number of categories in the rating scale used in an observer experiment on the results of ROC analysis by a simulation study.
The prevalence effect in a laboratory environment: Changing the confidence ratings.	We sought to assess whether or not prevalence levels affected the confidence ratings of readers during the interpretation of cases in a laboratory receiver operating characteristic-type observer performance study.
Relationships between the density of different indicator organisms on sheep and beef carcasses and in frozen beef and sheep meat.	To describe the relationship between the concentration of different indicator bacteria in red meat.
Lung function and exhaled nitric oxide levels in infants developing chronic lung disease.	Chronic lung disease (CLD) is a common outcome of neonatal intensive care. To determine whether the results of serial exhaled nitric oxide (eNO) measurements during the perinatal period differed between infants who did and did not develop CLD. In addition, we wished to assess whether eNO results were more predictive of CLD development than lung function test results or readily available clinical data (gestational age and birthweight). The patients were 24 infants with a median gestational age of 27 (range 25-31) weeks. Measurements of eNO levels, functional residual capacity (FRC), and compliance of the respiratory system (CRS) were attempted on postnatal days 1, 3, 5, 7, 14, and 28 days. The 12 infants who developed CLD were of significantly lower birthweight and gestational age than the rest of the cohort; in addition, they had lower median FRC (P < 0.02) and CRS (P < 0.02) results, but not higher eNO levels, in the first week after birth. Construction of receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curves demonstrated that the CRS and FRC results on Day 3 were the best predictors of CLD development; the areas under the ROC curves were 0.94 and 0.91, respectively. Early lung function test results, but not eNO levels, are useful in predicting CLD development, but are not significantly better than birthweight.
CSF enrichment of highly differentiated CD8+ T cells in early multiple sclerosis.	CD8+ T cells may play an important role in multiple sclerosis (MS). Whether these cells would be involved in early stages of MS is unclear. We enrolled 52 patients with suspected MS, determined the recruitment of their highly differentiated (CCR7-/CD45RA+ or -) T cells (T(HD)) in the CSF as compared to peripheral blood and followed them for 12+/-7.3 months. A ROC curve showed that a CD8+/CD4+ T(HD) cells ratio of 0.94 helped to distinguish relapsing-remitting (RR-MS) and possible MS (Po-MS) from primary-progressive MS (PP-MS) and other neurological diseases patients (OND) patients (p=0.039), risk ratio of 2.29 (95% CI: 1.13-4.66; p=0.006). The CSF enrichment in CD8+ T(HD) cells was greater than in CD4+ T(HD) cells in RR/Po-MS patients (p=0.024) and than in CD8+ T(HD) cells in PP-MS/OND patients (p=0.006). These data suggest that CD8+ T(HD) cells play a role in the early stages of RR-MS.
Automated osteoporosis risk assessment by dentists: a new pathway to diagnosis.	General dental practitioners use a vast amount of panoramic radiography in their routine clinical work, but valuable information about patients' osteoporotic status is not collected. There are many reasons for this, but one of the prime reasons must be the disruption involved in clinical routine with lengthy manual radiographic assessment. We have developed computer software, based on active shape modeling that will automatically detect the mandibular cortex on panoramic radiographs, and then measure its width. Automatic or semi-automatic measurement of the cortical width will indicate the osteoporotic risk of the patient. The aim of our work was to assess the computer search technique's ability to measure the mandibular cortical width and to assess its potential for detection of osteoporosis of the hip, spine and femoral neck. Mandibular cortical width was measured using the manually initialized (semi-automatic) method and, when assessed for diagnosing osteoporosis at one of the three measurement sites, gave an area under the ROC curve (A(z))=0.816 (95% CI=0.784 to 0.845) and for the automatically initialized searches, A(z)=0.759 (95% CI=0.724 to 0.791). The difference between areas=0.057 (95% Confidence interval=0.025 to 0.089), p<0.0001. For diagnosing osteoporosis at the femoral neck, mandibular cortical width derived from the manually initialized fit gave an area under the ROC curve (A(z))=0.835 (95% CI=0.805 to 0.863) and for the automatically initialized searches A(z)=0.805 (95% CI=0.773 to 0.835). The difference in A(z) values between active shape modeling search methods=0.030 (95% CI=-0.010 to 0.070), and this was not significant, p=0.138. We concluded that measurement of mandibular cortical width using active shape modeling is capable of diagnosing skeletal osteoporosis with good diagnostic ability and repeatability.
Prospective assessment of dosimetric/physiologic-based models for predicting radiation pneumonitis.	Clinical and 3D dosimetric parameters are associated with symptomatic radiation pneumonitis rates in retrospective studies. Such parameters include: mean lung dose (MLD), radiation (RT) dose to perfused lung (via SPECT), and pre-RT lung function. Based on prior publications, we defined pre-RT criteria hypothesized to be predictive for later development of pneumonitis. We herein prospectively test the predictive abilities of these dosimetric/functional parameters on 2 cohorts of patients from Duke and The Netherlands Cancer Institute (NKI).
Postnatal psychiatric morbidity: a validation study of the GHQ-12 and the EPDS as screening tools.	To assess the validity of the 12-Item General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-12) and the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) in screening for the most common postnatal psychiatric morbidities (mood, anxiety and adjustment disorders).
The CASH (color, architecture, symmetry, and homogeneity) algorithm for dermoscopy.	The color, architecture, symmetry, and homogeneity (CASH) algorithm for dermoscopy includes a feature not used in prior algorithms, namely, architecture. Architectural order/disorder is derived from current concepts regarding the biology of benign versus malignant melanocytic neoplasms.
The National Cholesterol Education Program - Adult Treatment Panel III, International Diabetes Federation, and World Health Organization definitions of the metabolic syndrome as predictors of incident cardiovascular disease and diabetes.	The clinical value of metabolic syndrome is uncertain. Thus, we examined cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes risk prediction by the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP)-Adult Treatment Panel III (ATPIII), International Diabetes Federation, and World Health Organization definitions of the metabolic syndrome.
Increasing the accuracy of oral glucose tolerance testing and extending its application to individuals with normal glucose tolerance for the prediction of type 1 diabetes: the Diabetes Prevention Trial-Type 1.	We assessed the extent to which both standard and alternative indexes from 2-h oral glucose tolerance testing predict type 1 diabetes and whether oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTTs) predict type 1 diabetes in individuals with normal glucose tolerance.
Minimum waist and visceral fat values for identifying Japanese Americans at risk for the metabolic syndrome.	Japanese American is an ethnic group with a high risk for type 2 diabetes, which is linked to the metabolic syndrome. Central adiposity is considered to play a key role in the metabolic syndrome. Not known are the optimal cut point values for central and visceral adiposity to identify Japanese Americans at risk for the metabolic syndrome.
Relative merits of M-mode echocardiography and tissue Doppler imaging for prediction of response to cardiac resynchronization therapy in patients with heart failure secondary to ischemic or idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.	M-mode echocardiography (using the septal-to-posterior wall motion delay [SPWMD]) and color-coded tissue Doppler imaging (TDI; using the septal-to-lateral delay in peak systolic velocity) have been proposed for assessment of left ventricular (LV) dyssynchrony and prediction of response to cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT). In this study, a head-to-head comparison between M-mode echocardiography and color-coded TDI was performed for assessment of LV dyssynchrony and prediction of response to CRT. Consecutive (n = 98) patients with severe heart failure (New York Heart Association class III/IV), LV ejection fraction < or =35%, and QRS duration >120 ms underwent CRT. Before pacemaker implantation, LV dyssynchrony was assessed by M-mode echocardiography (SPWMD) and color-coded TDI (septal-to-lateral delay). At baseline and 6 months after implantation, clinical and echocardiographic parameters were evaluated. SPWMD measurement was not feasible in 41% of patients due to akinesia of the septal and/or posterior walls or poor acoustic windows. Conversely, the septal-to-lateral delay could be assessed in 96% of patients. At 6-month follow-up, 75 patients (77%) were classified as responders to CRT (improvement > or =1 New York Heart Association class). The sensitivity and specificity of SPWMD were lower compared with those of septal-to-lateral delay (66% vs 90%, p <0.05; 50% vs 82%, p = NS, respectively). In conclusion, LV dyssynchrony assessment was feasible in 59% of patients with M-mode echocardiography compared with 96% (p <0.05) when color-coded TDI was used. Color-coded TDI was superior to M-mode echocardiography for prediction of response to CRT.
Relation of isovolumic times after cardiac resynchronization therapy to improvement in exercise capacity.	Isovolumic times (IVTs) comprise a determinant of exercise capacity in cardiomyopathy. We postulated that an increase in exercise capacity after cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) might be related to a more efficient cardiac cycle due to decreasing IVTs and increased filling times. According to standard selection criteria, a CRT device was implanted in 52 patients (37 men; 69 +/- 8 years) with a QRS duration of 174 +/- 30 ms. The etiology was ischemic in 22 and idiopathic in 30 patients. A 6-minute walking test (MWT) and echocardiographic Doppler were performed before and 3 and 6 months after CRT. Timing cycles were obtained with echocardiographic Doppler. An improvement in MWT by >15% (responders) after 6 months of CRT was observed in 46% of patients. The MWT was moderately correlated with baseline time intervals (IVT r = -0.44, filling time r = 0.52), but not to baseline left ventricular ejection fraction (r = -0.06). However, change in the MWT after 3 and 6 months was best related to changes in IVT (r = -0.66 and -0.68, respectively). Receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis of baseline IVT showed that an IVT >29% predicted exercise response with a positive predictive value of 89% and a negative predictive value of 77%. In conclusion, improvement in exercise tolerance after CRT is associated with a decrease in prolonged IVT. Baseline IVT might be used as an adjunctive parameter for selecting symptomatic responders to CRT.
Left ventricular function in normotensive young adults with well-controlled type 1 diabetes mellitus.	The aim of this study was to determine whether early myocardial structural and functional systolic and diastolic alterations in asymptomatic and uncomplicated patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM) could be detected using the new highly sensitive echocardiographic techniques of integrated backscatter and color Doppler myocardial imaging. Forty asymptomatic and uncomplicated patients with type 1 DM and 40 gender- and age-matched normal controls were studied. All patients were analyzed by conventional and new echocardiographic techniques (integrated backscatter and color Doppler myocardial imaging). Patients with DM showed reduced systolic function compared with controls, evidenced by significantly lower peak strain, strain rates, and cyclic variation indexes at the septum (p <0.0001, <0.01, and <0.001, respectively) and at the posterior wall level (p <0.0001, <0.0001, and <0.001, respectively). On receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis, systolic strain and the cyclic variation index showed the highest discriminating power for separating patients with DM and control subjects. Neither structural or ultrastructural nor diastolic functional abnormalities were detected. On univariate regression analysis, a significant inverse correlation was found for DM duration with conventional (E/A ratio) and unconventional (tissue Doppler imaging E/A ratio) indexes of diastolic function, in the absence of any correlation for systolic function. In conclusion, highly sensitive ultrasonic techniques demonstrate evidence of left ventricular systolic dysfunction in the early stage of type 1 DM, in the absence of ultrastructural and left ventricular diastolic functional abnormalities.
Relation of electrocardiographic criteria for left atrial enlargement to two-dimensional echocardiographic left atrial volume measurements.	Left atrial (LA) enlargement by 2-dimensional (2-D) echocardiography predicts adverse cardiovascular outcomes. Electrocardiographic (ECG) criteria for LA enlargement are based on M-mode echocardiographic LA diameter, which is inferior to 2-D-derived LA volumes. This study compared established ECG criteria for LA enlargement with atrial volume obtained by 2-D echocardiography to determine if traditional ECG criteria accurately represent LA chamber enlargement, therefore offering a low-cost screening tool. A total of 261 randomly selected patients who underwent electrocardiography and 2-D echocardiography were enrolled. ECG parameters and electronically derived P-wave medians were analyzed with electronic calipers for maximal accuracy. LA volumes by 2-D echocardiography were measured with Simpson's method of discs, with enlargement defined as 32 ml/m(2). Sensitivity and specificity tables and receiver-operating characteristic curves were constructed for each criterion. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed for predictors of 2-D echocardiographic LA enlargement. LA enlargement was present in 43% of patients. ECG P-wave duration was the most sensitive for the detection of LA enlargement (69%) but had low specificity (49%). Conversely, a biphasic P wave was the most specific (92%) but had low sensitivity (12%). The maximum area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve for any criterion was 0.64, too low to be of clinical utility. In conclusion, established ECG criteria for LA enlargement do not reliably reflect LA enlargement and lack sufficient predictive value to be useful clinically. These results suggest that P-wave abnormalities should be noted as nonspecific LA abnormalities, with the term "LA enlargement" no longer used.
The effects of study design and spectrum bias on the evaluation of diagnostic accuracy of confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy in glaucoma.	To assess the effects of study design and spectrum bias on the evaluation of diagnostic accuracy of confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (CSLO) in glaucoma.
The effect of atypical birefringence patterns on glaucoma detection using scanning laser polarimetry with variable corneal compensation.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of the presence of atypical birefringence patterns, as measured by the typical scan score (TSS), on the diagnostic accuracy of a scanning laser polarimeter (the GDx VCC; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc., Dublin, CA) assessed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves for discriminating between glaucoma and healthy eyes.
Relationship between visual field sensitivity and retinal nerve fiber layer thickness as measured by optical coherence tomography.	To evaluate the strength and pattern of the relationship between visual field (VF) sensitivity and retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness as measured by StratusOCT (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc., Dublin, CA).
Extensive retraction artifact correlates with lymphatic invasion and nodal metastasis and predicts poor outcome in early stage breast carcinoma.	Retraction artifact resulting in clear spaces around tumor cell nests is frequently seen in histologic material and may present difficulty in their differentiation from lymphovascular invasion. We noticed that retraction artifact seemed to be more common around groups of breast cancer cells compared with benign acini, and when extensively present, metastasis to axillary lymph nodes was often seen. Thus, we performed a study of 304 cases of stage pT1 and pT2 breast carcinomas to test our hypothesis that extensive retraction artifact in tumors correlates with lymphatic spread and outcome. Tumors were evaluated to determine the presence and extent of retraction artifact around tumor cell nests and the presence of lymphatic invasion. Lymphatic invasion was confirmed by D2-40 immunostaining. The extent of retraction artifact in tumors was correlated with clinicopathologic tumor features and patient outcome. Variable degree of retraction artifact was present in 183 of 304 (60%) invasive carcinomas, with its extent ranging from 0% to 90% (median 5%). The extent of retraction artifact showed a significant correlation with tumor size, histologic type, histologic grade, presence of lymphovascular invasion, and nodal metastasis. Further, extensive retraction artifact was significantly associated with poor overall and disease-free survival in both univariate and multivariate analyses. We propose that the apparent retraction of the stroma from cells of invasive breast carcinoma on routine histologic sections is not a phenomenon merely due to inadequate fixation as currently believed. Rather, it likely signifies important biologic changes that alter tumor-stromal interactions and contribute to lymphatic spread and tumor progression.
Seroprotection against tetanus in patients attending an emergency department in Belgium and evaluation of a bedside immunotest.	In most emergency departments, tetanus prophylaxis currently relies on vaccination history. Bedside evaluation of tetanus immunity may improve this process.
Automated interpretation of PET/CT images in patients with lung cancer.	To develop a completely automated method based on image processing techniques and artificial neural networks for the interpretation of combined [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and computed tomography (CT) images for the diagnosis and staging of lung cancer.
Prospective screening for occult cardiomyopathy in dogs by measurement of plasma atrial natriuretic peptide, B-type natriuretic peptide, and cardiac troponin-I concentrations.	To evaluate the use of measuring plasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), and cardiac troponin-I (cTnI) to detect dogs with occult dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM).
Comparison of shape-matching and docking as virtual screening tools.	Ligand docking is a widely used approach in virtual screening. In recent years a large number of publications have appeared in which docking tools are compared and evaluated for their effectiveness in virtual screening against a wide variety of protein targets. These studies have shown that the effectiveness of docking in virtual screening is highly variable due to a large number of possible confounding factors. Another class of method that has shown promise in virtual screening is the shape-based, ligand-centric approach. Several direct comparisons of docking with the shape-based tool ROCS have been conducted using data sets from some of these recent docking publications. The results show that a shape-based, ligand-centric approach is more consistent than, and often superior to, the protein-centric approach taken by docking.
In vivo EIS characterization of tumour tissue properties is dominated by excess extracellular fluid.	Electrical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) is a non-ionizing, non-invasive technique which can be used to detect the presence of malignant tumours based on their electrical properties. Although it has been suggested that the edema which accompanies tumours strongly influences EIS tumour characterization, such information has not, until now, been documented in the literature. Growing intramuscular rodent tumours were imaged using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and EIS at several time points post-tumour implantation. The amount of edema associated with the tumours was calculated from the MRI images. Electrical parameters (resistivity, permittivity, fluid index ratio and peak frequency) were extracted from the EIS spectra. Taken together, the resulting electrical parameters strongly indicate that edema is the dominating pathological feature in EIS characterization and can at times conceal the presence of the tumour. Receiver operating characteristic analysis supports these findings.
The reliability and validity of the Four Square Step Test for people with balance deficits secondary to a vestibular disorder.	To determine the reliability and validity of the Four Square Step Test (FSST) for use in people with balance deficits secondary to vestibular disorders, who frequently report falling and have difficulty with changes of direction.
Moderately elevated levels of basal follicle-stimulating hormone in young patients predict low ovarian response, but should not be used to disqualify patients from attempting in vitro fertilization.	To evaluate and compare IVF outcomes of patients within different age categories who had a normal basal FSH level with outcomes of patients with an elevated day 3 FSH level.
Urinary CYFRA 21.1 is not a useful marker for the detection of recurrences in the follow-up of superficial bladder cancer.	The objective of this prospective study is to establish an appropriate cutoff value of urinary CYFRA 21.1 assay and to assess its utility combined with voided cytology and/or haemoglobin dipstick in the follow-up of patients with superficial bladder cancer.
The SF-36 summary scores and their relation to mental disorders: physical functioning may affect performance of the summary scores.	The Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) has been widely used as a generic measure of health status. It can be scored to provide either a profile of eight scores or two summary measures of health. Several studies demonstrated shortcomings of the summary scores in accurately reflecting patients' physical and mental health on the basis of subscale scores. The objective of this study was to compare and evaluate different scoring algorithms for the summary scores.
Multifactorial prediction of arrhythmic events after myocardial infarction. Combination of heart rate variability and left ventricular ejection fraction with other variables.	Autonomic dysfunction has recently been shown to identify postinfarction patients at a high risk of arrhythmic events. Therefore, the predictive characteristics of heart rate variability and the left ventricular ejection fraction in combination with other prognostic variables--mean heart rate, late potentials, and ventricular ectopic beat frequency greater than 10/hour (VE10)--were examined in 417 postinfarction patients. The heart rate variability index was the most important factor for the stratification of patients at high risk of arrhythmic events after myocardial infarction and optimum stratification was based on the combination of the heart rate variability index with late potentials or with frequent ventricular ectopic beats.
Incidence of low central venous oxygen saturation during unplanned admissions in a multidisciplinary intensive care unit: an observational study.	It has been shown that early central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO2)-guided optimization of hemodynamics can improve outcome in septic patients. The early ScvO2 profile of other patient groups is unknown. The aim of this study was to characterize unplanned admissions in a multidisciplinary intensive care unit (ICU) with respect to ScvO2 and outcome.
Use of flow-volume curves to predict oral appliance treatment outcome in obstructive sleep apnea.	It has been recognized that mandibular advancement splint (MAS) treatment is effective in some, but not all, patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Hence there is a need for a simple and reliable clinical tool to assist in the differentiation of treatment responses. We hypothesized that abnormalities of flow-volume curves, together with other clinical variables, may have clinical utility in the prediction of MAS treatment outcome.
The utility of magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy for predicting insignificant prostate cancer: an initial analysis.	To design new models that combine clinical variables and biopsy data with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and MR spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) data, and assess their value in predicting the probability of insignificant prostate cancer.
The predictive value of medical history taking and Chlamydia IgG ELISA antibody testing (CAT) in the selection of subfertile women for diagnostic laparoscopy: a clinical prediction model approach.	Medical history taking as well as Chlamydia antibody titre (CAT) testing are currently used in the selection of patients for diagnostic laparoscopy with tubal patency testing. Most research has focused on the predictive value of CAT in isolation from medical history. We assessed therefore whether the combination of medical history and CAT improves the efficiency of selecting patients for laparoscopy as compared to the use of either medical history or CAT.
Ultrasound assessment of vascularization of the thickened terminal ileum wall in Crohn's disease patients using a low-mechanical index real-time scanning technique with a second generation ultrasound contrast agent.	To prospectively evaluate the vascularization of the thickened terminal ileum in Crohn's disease patients using contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) and to compare the clinical activity measured by the Crohn's disease activity index (CDAI) with the CEUS findings.
Ultrasonography as a tool for the prediction of outcome in IVF patients: a comparative meta-analysis of ovarian volume and antral follicle count.	To investigate by meta-analysis the predictive capacity of ovarian volume as an ovarian reserve test in comparison to the antral follicle count (AFC).
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and PSA velocity for prostate cancer detection in men aged <50 years.	To identify threshold values of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels and PSA velocity (PSAV) to optimize the assessment of the risk of prostate cancer in young men, as prostate cancer is detected increasingly in men aged <50 years.
The predictive value of clinical and epidemiological parameters in the identification of patients with obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA): a clinical prediction algorithm in the evaluation of OSA.	We sought to analyze the predictive value of anthropometric, clinical and epidemiological parameters in the identification of patients with suspected OSA, and their relationship with apnoea/hypopnoea respiratory events during sleep. We studied retrospectively 433 patients with OSA, 361 men (83.37%) and 72 women (16.63%), with an average age of +/-47, standard deviation +/-11.10 years (range 18-75 years). The study variables for all of the patients were age, sex, spirometry, neck circumference, body mass index (BMI), Epworth sleepiness scale, nasal examination, pharyngeal examination, collapsibility of the pharynx (Mller Manoeuvre), and apnoea-hypopnoea index (AHI). Age, neck circumference, BMI, Epworth sleepiness scale, pharyngeal examination and pharyngeal collapse were the significant variables. Of the patients, 78% were correctly classified, with a sensitivity of 74.6% and a specificity of 66.3%. We found a direct relationship between the variables analysed and AHI. Based on these results, we obtained the following algorithm to calculate the prediction of AHI for a new patient: AHI = -12.04 + 0.36 neck circumference +2.2286 pharyngeal collapses (MM) + 0.1761 Epworth + 0.0017 BMI x age + 1.1949 pharyngeal examinations. The ratio variance in the number of respiratory events explained by the model was 33% (r2 = 0.33). The variables given in the algorithm are the best ones for predicting the number of respiratory events during sleep in patients studied for suspected OSA. The algorithm proposed may be a good screening method to the identification of patients with OSA.
Validation of a fluorescence polarization assay (FPA) performed in microplates and comparison with other tests used for diagnosing B. melitensis infection in sheep and goats.	Fluorescence polarization assay (FPA) is a relatively new test for the serological diagnosis of Brucella spp. infection in animals. FPA, carried out in 96-well microplate format, was validated here for diagnosing B. melitensis infection in sheep and goats. This study included sera from 1933 sheep and goats, from animals reared in naturally infected flocks (verified by culture) and showing a positive reaction to two different tests conducted in parallel. In addition, 2154 sera originating from healthy sheep and goats, reared in areas where B. melitensis had never been isolated, were assayed. The optimum cut-off value offering the highest diagnostic sensitivity (DSn) and diagnostic specificity (DSp) was determined at 15 mP over the mean value of the buffer control used in each microplate as determined by receiver operating characteristic analysis. The DSn and DSp of the FPA for small ruminants carried out in microplates at this cut-off value were calculated to be 95.9% and 97.9% with 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) of 94.9-97.7% and 97.2-98.4%, respectively. The accuracy of the FPA, as expressed by determination of the area under the curve, was 0.991. Indirect ELISA and FPA tests offered the highest DSn when compared with the Rose Bengal test, the complement fixation test, the modified Rose Bengal test and competitive ELISA. The parallel or serial combination of FPA with indirect ELISA offers the highest DSn and DSp. As temperature can affect the results of the FPA, all reagents must be at the same temperature and the standard for comparison must always be read under the same conditions as the sera under test. FPA performed in microplates is a promising assay; the DSn and accuracy are better than those of the tests currently approved for diagnosing B. melitensis in small ruminants. Because of its simplicity, speed, and accuracy, this test can improve capacity for laboratory testing and the efficacy of an eradication program based on a test-and-slaughter policy.
Lipid profile cutoff values for predicting hypertension in an Iranian population (ROC curve analysis).	Hypertension is a common condition that affects many people in the world. Although several risk factors for the development of hypertension have been identified, its etiology is still not fully understood. In this study the prevalence of dyslipidemia in a hypertensive and a control group was compared and the cutoff points of the lipid profile to predict hypertension were determined.
Predictive echo-Doppler indices of left ventricular impairment in B-thalassemic patients.	Early detection of cardiac-function impairment by echo-Doppler indices can assist in preventing further cardiac damage by modifying disease progression and treatment. We analyzed our thalassemia major patients database with 10 years cardiac follow-up. Included patients were under constant therapy and should have an initial echo-Doppler study with normal Shortening Fraction (SF > 30%) and reexamination within the last year. We identified patients who developed impaired left ventricular (LV) function in the last Echo and we attempted to find which measured indices could predict LV function impairment. Three hundred fifteen of the 632 database patients were enrolled. Twelve of them developed LV systolic dysfunction. There were no statistically significant differences in mean age, ferritin, and pretransfusion hemoglobin levels of the two groups. LV-systolic-dysfunction group was presenting statistically significantly higher LF end-systolic diameter (LVESD) index, lower SF, higher early transmitral peak flow velocities/late transmitral peak flow velocities (A) ratios, lower A value. All other echocardiographic parameters did not differ significantly. By receiver-operating characteristic analysis, we determined systolic and diastolic indices specificity and sensitivity for LV impairment: LVESD 97% specificity, 11% sensitivity (cutoff value 2.44 cm/m(2) ), SF 92.1 and 33.3% (cutoff value 33%). Regarding diastolic indices, A index was the best criterion (97.7% specificity, 25% sensitivity, cutoff value <or=0.36). Low values of the diastolic index A wave and increased values of the LVESD index were the earliest pathological findings in patients that finally developed LV systolic dysfunction. These parameters could be used as heart-dysfunction predictors with relatively good sensitivity and specificity.
Timing of clinically significant microembolism after carotid endarterectomy.	Post-operatively detected transcranial Doppler (TCD) embolic signals (ES) are associated with an increased risk of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) stroke/TIA. The aims here were to quantify this risk and determine the most efficient monitoring protocol.
Computational chemistry approach to protein kinase recognition using 3D stochastic van der Waals spectral moments.	Three-dimensional (3D) protein structures now frequently lack functional annotations because of the increase in the rate at which chemical structures are solved with respect to experimental knowledge of biological activity. As a result, predicting structure-function relationships for proteins is an active research field in computational chemistry and has implications in medicinal chemistry, biochemistry and proteomics. In previous studies stochastic spectral moments were used to predict protein stability or function (Gonzlez-Daz, H. et al. Bioorg Med Chem 2005, 13, 323; Biopolymers 2005, 77, 296). Nevertheless, these moments take into consideration only electrostatic interactions and ignore other important factors such as van der Waals interactions. The present study introduces a new class of 3D structure molecular descriptors for folded proteins named the stochastic van der Waals spectral moments ((o)beta(k)). Among many possible applications, recognition of kinases was selected due to the fact that previous computational chemistry studies in this area have not been reported, despite the widespread distribution of kinases. The best linear model found was Kact = -9.44 degrees beta(0)(c) +10.94 degrees beta(5)(c) -2.40 degrees beta(0)(i) + 2.45 degrees beta(5)(m) + 0.73, where core (c), inner (i) and middle (m) refer to specific spatial protein regions. The model with a high Matthew's regression coefficient (0.79) correctly classified 206 out of 230 proteins (89.6%) including both training and predicting series. An area under the ROC curve of 0.94 differentiates our model from a random classifier. A subsequent principal components analysis of 152 heterogeneous proteins demonstrated that beta(k) codifies information different to other descriptors used in protein computational chemistry studies. Finally, the model recognizes 110 out of 125 kinases (88.0%) in a virtual screening experiment and this can be considered as an additional validation study (these proteins were not used in training or predicting series).
Interpreting tests for iron deficiency among adults in a high HIV prevalence African setting: routine tests may lead to misdiagnosis.	We evaluated peripheral blood tests to diagnose iron deficiency on medical wards in Blantyre, Malawi, where infection and HIV are prevalent. We compared full blood count, ferritin and serum transferrin receptor (TfR) levels with an estimation of iron in bone marrow aspirates. Of consecutive adults admitted with severe anaemia (haemoglobin <7 g/dl), 81 had satisfactory bone marrow aspirates. The main outcome measures were the validity of each test (sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values) and likelihood ratios (LR) for iron deficiency. Twenty patients (25%) were iron deficient and 64 (79%) were HIV-positive. Iron deficiency was more common in HIV-negative compared with HIV-positive patients (59% vs. 16%; P<0.001). In HIV-positive patients, the optimal ferritin cut-off was 150 microg/l (sensitivity 20%, specificity 93%, LR 2.7), but no test was accurate enough to be clinically useful. In HIV-negative patients, ferritin was the single most accurate test (cut-off <70 microg/l, 100% specificity, 90% sensitive, LR if positive infinity, LR if negative 10). TfR measurement did not improve the accuracy. Mean cell volume was not a good predictor of iron status except in HIV-negative patients (cut-off <85 fl, specificity 71%, sensitivity 90%). In populations with high levels of infection and HIV, an HIV test is necessary to interpret any tests of iron deficiency. In HIV-negative patients, ferritin is the best blood test for iron deficiency, using a higher cut-off than usual. For HIV-positive patients, it is difficult to diagnose iron deficiency without bone marrow aspirates.
Predictive value of clinical and laboratory variables for vesicoureteral reflux in children.	We aimed to determine the predictability of clinical and laboratory variables for vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) in children with urinary tract infection (UTI). Data of children with febrile UTI who underwent voiding cystoureterography between 2002 and 2005 were evaluated retrospectively for clinical (age, gender, fever > or = 38.5 degrees C, recurrent UTI), laboratory [leukocytosis, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), pyuria, serum creatinine (S(Cr))] and imaging (renal ultrasonography) variables. Children with VUR (group 1) vs. no VUR (group 2) and children with high-grade (III-V) VUR (group 3) vs. no or low-grade (I-II) VUR (group 4) were compared. Among 88 patients (24 male), 38 had VUR and 21 high-grade VUR. Fever > or = 38.5 degrees C was associated with VUR [odds ratio (OR): 7.5]. CRP level of 50 mg/l was the best cut-off level for predicting high-grade VUR (OR 15.5; discriminative ability 0.89 +/- 0.05). Performing voiding cystourethrography based on this CRP level would result in failure to notice 9% of patients with high-grade VUR, whereas 69% of children with no/low-grade VUR would be spared from this invasive test. In conclusion, fever > or = 38 degrees C and CRP > 50 mg/l seem to be potentially useful clinical predictors of VUR and high-grade VUR, respectively, in pediatric patients with UTI. Further validation of these findings could limit unnecessary voiding cystourethrography.
Prediction of countershock success using single features from multiple ventricular fibrillation frequency bands and feature combinations using neural networks.	Targeted defibrillation therapy is needed to optimise survival chances of ventricular fibrillation (VF) patients, but at present VF analysis strategies to optimise defibrillation timing have insufficient predictive power. From 197 patients with in-hospital and out-of-hospital cardiac arrest, 770 electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings of countershock attempts were analysed. Preshock VF ECG features in the time and frequency domain were tested retrospectively for outcome prediction. Using band pass filters, the ECG spectrum was split into various frequency bands of 2-26 Hz bandwidth in the range of 0-26 Hz. Neural networks were used for single feature combinations to optimise prediction of countershock success. Areas under curves (AUC) of receiver operating characteristics (ROC) were used to estimate prediction power of single and combined features. The highest ROC AUC of 0.863 was reached by the median slope in the interval 10-22 Hz resulting in a sensitivity of 95% and a specificity of 50%. The best specificity of 55% at the 95% sensitivity level was reached by power spectrum analysis (PSA) in the 6-26 Hz interval. Neural networks combining single predictive features were unable to increase outcome prediction. Using frequency band segmentation of human VF ECG, several single predictive features with high ROC AUC>0.840 were identified. Combining these single predictive features using neural networks did not further improve outcome prediction in human VF data. This may indicate that various simple VF features, such as median slope already reach the maximum prediction power extractable from VF ECG.
An investigation of airway acidification in asthma using induced sputum: a study of feasibility and correlation.	Acidification of the airways seems to be involved in asthma pathophysiology, but its assessment might be difficult.
Predictive values of transcutaneous oxygen tension for above-the-ankle amputation in diabetic patients with critical limb ischemia.	To assess the values of transcutaneous oxygen tension (TcPO2) capable of predicting above-the-ankle amputation in diabetic patients diagnosed for critical limb ischemia (CLI) according to the criteria of the TransAtlantic Inter-Society Consensus.
On the applicability of QSAR for recognition of miRNA bioorganic structures at early stages of organism and cell development: embryo and stem cells.	Quantitative structure-activity-relationship (QSAR) models have application in bioorganic chemistry mainly to the study of small sized molecules while applications to biopolymers remain not very developed. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), which are non-coding small RNAs, regulate a variety of biological processes and constitute good candidates to scale up the application of QSAR to biopolymers. The propensity of a small RNA sequence to act as miRNA depends on its secondary structure, which one can explain in terms of folding thermodynamic parameters. Then, thermodynamic QSAR can be used, for instance, for fast identification of miRNAs at early stages of development such as embryos and stem cells (called here esmiRNAs), and gain clarity inside cellular differentiation processes and diseases such as cancer. First, we calculated folding free energies (DeltaG), enthalpies (DeltaH), and entropies (DeltaS) as well as melting temperatures (T(m)) for 2623 small RNA sequences (including 623 esmiRNAs and 2000 negative control sequences). Next, we seek a QSAR classification model: esmiRNA=0.035 x T(m)-0.078 x DeltaS-8.748. The model correctly recognized 543 (87.2%) of esmiRNAs and 935 (93.5%) of non-esmiRNAs divided into both training and validation series. The model also recognized 908 out of 1000 additional negative control sequences. ROC curve analysis (area=0.93) demonstrated that the present model significantly differentiates from a random classifier. In addition, we map the influence of thermodynamic parameters over esmiRNA activity. Last, a double ordinate Cartesian plot of cross-validated residuals (first ordinate), standard residuals (second ordinate), and leverages (abscissa) defined the domain of applicability of the model as a squared area within +/-2 band for residuals and a leverage threshold of h=0.0074. The present is the first QSAR model for quickly accurate selection of new esmiRNAs with potential use in bioorganic and medicinal chemistry.
Prognostic value of blood gas analyses in patients with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension.	Blood gas abnormalities in patients with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) may be related to disease severity and prognosis. The present authors performed a 12-yr retrospective analysis assessing arterialised capillary blood gases, haemodynamics, exercise variables and survival in 101 patients with IPAH. At baseline, arterial oxygen tension (P(a,O(2))) and carbon dioxide arterial tension (P(a,CO(2))) were 9.17+/-1.86 and 4.25+/-0.532 kPa, respectively. While P(a,O(2) )was not associated with survival, a low P(a,CO(2 ))was a strong and independent prognostic marker. When patients were divided according to a baseline P(a,CO(2 ))value above or below 4.25 kPa, a cut-off value determined by receiver operating characteristics analysis, survival rates were 98 and 86% at 1 yr, 82 and 69% at 2 years, 80 and 51% at 3 yrs, 77 and 41% at 5 yrs, and 65 and 12% at 8 yrs, respectively. P(a,CO(2 ))after 3 months of medical therapy was strongly associated with survival. Hypocapnia at rest and during exercise correlated with low cardiac output, low peak oxygen uptake and reduced ventilatory efficacy. Multiple regression analysis revealed that 6-min walking distance, right atrial pressure and P(a,CO(2 ))were independently associated with survival. In patients with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension, hypocapnia (carbon dioxide arterial tension <4.25 kPa) is an independent marker of mortality.
Usefulness of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring in predicting the presence of autonomic neuropathy in type I diabetic patients.	This study investigated whether nondipping (defined as a day-night change in blood pressure (BP) <or=0%) could be assumed as a diagnostic index for autonomic neuropathy, and assessed its accuracy in discriminating between type I diabetic patients with and without autonomic neuropathy. In 87 type I diabetic patients with normal renal function (age 36+/-11, duration 17+/-9 years, serum creatinine 67.2+/-15.9 micromol/l), four cardiovascular tests and 24-h BP monitoring were performed, and the percentage day-night change (Delta) in systolic (SBP) and diastolic BP (DBP) was calculated. Sixteen patients had DeltaSBP and/or DeltaDBP <or=0%. In a multiple logistic regression with adjustment for sex, age, and body mass index, the odds ratio for having autonomic neuropathy was seven times higher in patients with DeltaSBP <or=0% as opposed to those without (odds ratio 6.97, CI 1.4-34.9, P=0.018). Using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis, DeltaBP showed an acceptable accuracy in discriminating between patients with and without autonomic neuropathy (area under the ROC curve 0.69+/-0.06 and 0.72+/-0.05 for DeltaSBP and DeltaDBP, respectively). Adequate cutoff values were 0% for DeltaSBP (sensitivity, 26%; specificity, 95%; positive predictive value, 87%) and 5% for DeltaDBP (sensitivity, 26%; specificity, 92%; positive predictive value, 81%). In type I diabetic patients with normal renal function, a value of DeltaSBP <or=0% identifies the presence of autonomic neuropathy with a very high chance. Nondipping at the cutoff proposed could be considered an adjunctive marker of autonomic neuropathy provided with a high specificity and low sensitivity.
Medial thenar recording in normal subjects and carpal tunnel syndrome.	Since little is known about the involvement of median nerve fibres to the medial thenar eminence in CTS, we determine the consistency of a motor response derived from a medial thenar motor (MTM) site. We then compare sensitivity and specificity of this novel site with other nerve conduction parameters in supporting a diagnosis of CTS.
Functional dissection of protein complexes involved in yeast chromosome biology using a genetic interaction map.	Defining the functional relationships between proteins is critical for understanding virtually all aspects of cell biology. Large-scale identification of protein complexes has provided one important step towards this goal; however, even knowledge of the stoichiometry, affinity and lifetime of every protein-protein interaction would not reveal the functional relationships between and within such complexes. Genetic interactions can provide functional information that is largely invisible to protein-protein interaction data sets. Here we present an epistatic miniarray profile (E-MAP) consisting of quantitative pairwise measurements of the genetic interactions between 743 Saccharomyces cerevisiae genes involved in various aspects of chromosome biology (including DNA replication/repair, chromatid segregation and transcriptional regulation). This E-MAP reveals that physical interactions fall into two well-represented classes distinguished by whether or not the individual proteins act coherently to carry out a common function. Thus, genetic interaction data make it possible to dissect functionally multi-protein complexes, including Mediator, and to organize distinct protein complexes into pathways. In one pathway defined here, we show that Rtt109 is the founding member of a novel class of histone acetyltransferases responsible for Asf1-dependent acetylation of histone H3 on lysine 56. This modification, in turn, enables a ubiquitin ligase complex containing the cullin Rtt101 to ensure genomic integrity during DNA replication.
Detecting movement-related EEG change by wavelet decomposition-based neural networks trained with single thumb movement.	The main goal of this study was to develop a real-time detection algorithm of movement-related EEG changes for the nave subjects with a very small amount of training data. Such an algorithm is vital for the realization of brain-computer interface.
Serum prostate-specific antigen as a predictor of prostate volume in the community: the Krimpen study.	Serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is considered a proxy for prostate volume (PV). This study investigates which range of PSA values has the best utility in the determination of PV (<30 cc, at 30, 40, and 50 cc), and whether PSA performs better than digital rectal examination (DRE) when estimating PV.
Correlation between urine ketones (acetoacetate) and capillary blood ketones (3-beta-hydroxybutyrate) in hyperglycaemic patients.	To facilitate the transition from urine ketones (acetoacetate) to capillary blood ketones (3-beta-hydroxybutyrate), we studied the correlation between these two tests.
Inheritance of arterial lesions in renal fibromuscular dysplasia.	We have previously shown that patients with renal fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) have asymptomatic carotid lesions and that familial forms may occur. The objective of this study was to test whether carotid lesions could be detected in relatives of familial cases. High-resolution echotracking of the carotid artery was performed in 47 relatives of 13 cases from six families. This non-invasive investigation led to a semiquantitative arterial score that was compared with that obtained for 47 controls matched for age and sex and that for 125 sporadic cases. Familial resemblance was tested by using a generalized estimating equation approach taking into account the clustering of scores in families. As expected, FMD cases had a significantly higher score than controls (4.02 vs 2.52, P<10(-5)). Familial cases were not significantly different from sporadic cases. Of interest, the 47 apparently healthy relatives of familial cases had also a high carotid score (4.17), very significantly higher than that of controls (2.52, P<10(-5)) even though lower than the corresponding index FMD cases (4.81, P=0.01). Segregation analysis showed that 52% of the descendants of subjects with a score >4 had a score >4, a proportion consistent with autosomal-dominant transmission of the trait. Altogether these results strengthen the hypothesis of renal FMD being a systemic arterial disease and argue for a familial resemblance that may be due to a major genetic effect. The carotid score obtained by high-resolution echotracking may provide a non-invasive surrogate marker for renal FMD of potential value for use in linkage strategies on large pedigrees.
Prostate-specific antigen velocity and prostate cancer gleason grade and stage.	Increased preoperative prostate-specific antigen (PSA) velocity (PSAV) has been associated with increased prostate cancer mortality and higher Gleason scores. The authors evaluated the relation between PSAV, biopsy Gleason score, and pathologic stage in men who were enrolled in a prostate cancer screening trial.
Assay-specific artificial neural networks for five different PSA assays and populations with PSA 2-10 ng/ml in 4,480 men.	Use of percent free PSA (%fPSA) and artificial neural networks (ANNs) can eliminate unnecessary prostate biopsies. In a total of 4,480 patients from five centers with PSA concentrations in the range of 2-10 ng/ml an IMMULITE PSA-based ANN (iANN) was compared with other PSA assay-adapted ANNs (nANNs) to investigate the impact of different PSA assays. ANN data were generated with PSA, fPSA (assays from Abbott, Beckman, DPC, Roche or Wallac), age, prostate volume, and DRE status. In 15 different ROC analyses, the area under the curve (AUC) in the PSA ranges 2-4, 2-10, and 4-10 ng/ml for the nANN was always significantly larger than the AUC for %fPSA or PSA. The nANN and logistic regression models mostly also performed better than the iANN. Therefore, for each patient population, PSA assay-specific ANNs should be used to optimize the ANN outcome in order to reduce the number of unnecessary biopsies.
Diagnostic and prognostic accuracy of clinical and laboratory parameters in community-acquired pneumonia.	Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) is the most frequent infection-related cause of death. The reference standard to diagnose CAP is a new infiltrate on chest radiograph in the presence of recently acquired respiratory signs and symptoms. This study aims to evaluate the diagnostic and prognostic accuracy of clinical signs and symptoms and laboratory biomarkers for CAP.
Single serum activin a testing to predict ectopic pregnancy.	Ectopic pregnancy (EP) is an important cause of maternal deaths in early pregnancy because most fatal cases result from delayed diagnosis and inappropriate investigation.
Outcome prediction in acute monohemispheric stroke via magnetoencephalography.	Following an ischemic stroke a highly variable clinical outcome is commonly evident despite similar onset symptoms as well as lesion characteristics. The aim of this study was to identify indexes providing early prediction of functional recovery, in addition to clinical severity and lesion dimension at onset of stroke.
is leukoaraiosis on CT an accurate surrogate marker for the presence of microbleeds in acute stroke patients?	Microbleeds (MB) detected on gradient echo magnetic resonance images (GRE) are a potential risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage after thrombolysis or oral anticoagulation. We assessed whether the presence of MB could be predicted from the extent of white matter disease (WMD) on computed tomography (CT).
Clinical diagnosis of left ventricular dilatation and dysfunction in the age of technology.	The diagnostic process has become increasingly dependent on instrumental and laboratory investigation.
Common carotid artery wall thickness and external diameter as predictors of prevalent and incident cardiac events in a large population study.	Arterial diameters enlarge in response to wall thickening, plaques, and many atherosclerotic risk factors. We hypothesized that right common carotid artery (RCCA) diameter would be independently associated with cardiac disease and improve risk discrimination.
Meta-analysis comparing CT colonography, air contrast barium enema, and colonoscopy.	Published studies have reported a wide range of sensitivities and specificities for computed tomographic (CT) colonography for polyp detection, generating controversy regarding its diagnostic accuracy.
Which parameters should be chosen to evaluate daily activities of the patients with chronic lung disease?]	In Japan medically handicapped persons are given government support. Currently the government uses selection criteria including FEV1, PaO2, and dyspnea rating to identify level 3 handicaps, however, these criteria lack a scientific basis. The purpose of this study was to investigate the validity of the current criteria and to try to create more appropriate one. We retrospectively reviewed the clinical records of 204 cases with chronic lung disease (COPD 111, non-COPD 93). The accuracy of the current criteria was assessed by sensitivity and specificity. To find the parameters that could determine ADL, we searched for clinical parameters using simple logistic regression models, ROC curves, and cross-table analyses. To compare the accuracy of the current and newly created criteria, we assessed the sensitivity, specificity of the two criteria. Sensitivity, specificity, and overall accuracy of the current criteria were 77.6%, 74.8%, and 75.5%, respectively, however, the positive predictive value was low (46.4%). The results of the screening of the parameters showed that the following three parameters were useful discriminators of ADL: (1) supplemental oxygen use, (2) MRC scale > or =4, and (3) 6-minute walking distance <340 m. The newly created criteria using these three parameters showed better sensitivity, specificity, and overall accuracy (81.6%, 80.7%, and 80.9%, respectively) than those of the current criteria. The positive predictive value also improved. In conclusion, our results suggest that the newly created criteria that include the 6-minute walking distance are more suitable than the criteria currently used to assess the ADL of the patients with chronic respiratory disease.
C-reactive protein concentration as a predictor of in-hospital mortality after ICU discharge: a nested case-control study.	To assess the ability of potential clinical predictors and inflammatory markers to predict in-hospital mortality after patient discharge from the intensive care unit.
Validity of Nordic-style questionnaires in the surveillance of upper-limb work-related musculoskeletal disorders.	The study aimed at comparing results of standardized Nordic-style questionnaires with those of clinical examinations in two surveys on upper-limb work-related musculoskeletal disorders.
Diagnostic value of ultrasonographic examination for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in morbidly obese patients undergoing laparoscopic bariatric surgery.	There are few data relating to the role of fatty score (FS) and modified fatty score (MFS) in ultrasonographic (US) examination on the diagnosis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in patients undergoing bariatric surgery.
Smoothed periodogram of oxyhemoglobin saturation by pulse oximetry in sleep apnea syndrome: an automated analysis.	Variability of oxyhemoglobin saturation (Spo(2)) during sleep has been utilized as a diagnostic index for sleep apnea. Spectral analysis with its graphical presentation, the periodogram, is an approach for measuring such variability. This work examined the parameters on a smoothed periodogram created from series data for Spo(2) obtained by pulse oximetry during a sleep study.
The impact of new-onset atrial fibrillation on in-hospital mortality following cardiac surgery.	The impact of new-onset postoperative atrial fibrillation (NAF) on in-hospital mortality (IHM) following cardiac surgery is unknown.
Identification of patients at high risk of noncompliance in substance dependence treatment.	Noncompliance in substance dependence treatment seriously threatens its effectiveness. Pretreatment identification of those at the highest risk allows targeting of specific compliance enhancing interventions to those who may benefit most from it. In a cohort of 292 patients entering a 30-day treatment program for substance abuse treatment, several potential predictors of noncompliance were recorded before treatment. Compliance was registered when treatment was discontinued before the 30th day. Logistic regression was used to identify independent predictors of noncompliance and the area under the receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve was quantified to assess their joint predictive value. Mean age was 35 years, 80% were male. During follow-up 31% became noncompliant. Independent predictors of noncompliance were male gender, less than 10 years of education, severity of medical and drug problems, and behavioral intention to comply with treatment. The area under the ROC curve was 0.70 (95% CI: 0.64-0.76). In conclusion, noncompliance in a substance abuse treatment program can be predicted using five easy to assess patient characteristics. These results may be useful in preventing noncompliant behavior early in treatment by motivational counseling strategies.
Validation of three noninvasive laboratory variables to predict significant fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C in Saudi Arabia.	We tested the clinical utility of the platelet count, the aspartate aminotransferase/alanine aminotransferase (AST/ALT) ratio, and the AST to platelet ratio index (APRI) score in predicting the presence or absence of advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C in Saudi Arabia.
Urinary neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) is an early biomarker for renal tubulointerstitial injury in IgA nephropathy.	Renal tubulointerstitial injury plays an important role in the development of IgA nephropathy (IgAN), the most common form of glomerulonephritis. Few currently in use biomarkers can sensitively detect the earliest signs of renal tubular injury, hindering our efforts to launch preventive and therapeutic measures for this disorder in a timely manner. Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) is an acute phase protein that is rapidly released from not only neutrophils but also a variety of cell types upon inflammation and tissue injury. Its small molecular size and protease resistance could render it an excellent biomarker of renal injury in IgAN. In this study, we tested this hypothesis by measuring urinary levels of NGAL, creatinine and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) in 40 healthy individuals and 70 IgAN patients with various disease severities. The urinary NGAL levels and NGAL/creatinine values were significantly upregulated in Lee grade III IgAN patients, in correlation with progressive glomerular mesangial proliferation and tubulointerstitial injury. Compared with urinary NAG levels, the urinary NGAL levels elevated much more drastically and can be readily detected even in Lee grade II IgAN patients when their NAG levels showed almost no change. Our findings suggest the promising use of urinary NGAL as an early biomarker for tubulointerstitial injury of IgA nephropathy and perhaps other types of renal disease in general.
Assessing routine and serum markers of liver fibrosis in CHB patients using parallel and serial interpretation.	The purpose of this study was to determine the cut-offs of serum biomarkers of liver fibrosis in HBsAg-positive patients by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, and to determine the validity of these markers in parallel and serial interpretation.
Morning plasma aldosterone predicts the subtype of primary aldosteronism independent of sodium intake.	The objective of the present study was to assess the potential predictive value of supine morning plasma aldosterone concentration, a component of the postural stimulation test (PST), in distinguishing aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA) from idiopathic adrenal hyperplasia (IAH) in a series of 61 patients with confirmed primary aldosteronism (PAL). The reproducibility of the PST was also tested under conditions of both normal- and high-sodium intake. Twenty-seven patients had surgery-confirmed unique APA. Thirty-four patients were classified as IAH and treated medically. Morning plasma aldosterone values were significantly higher in patients with APA compared to those with IAH (p < 0.01) on both diets. Using the receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, it was observed that the cutoff values in the highest (>900 pmol/L or 32 ng/dl) and lowest (<300 pmol/L or 11 ng/dl) range of the morning plasma aldosterone measurements were predictive of the subtype diagnosis in about 50% of PAL cases (31 of 61 patients). The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of the PST were >70% on both sodium diets. The PST was also reproducible irrespective of sodium intake. Moreover, one of its components, the supine morning plasma aldosterone, can be used as an indicator for the subtype diagnosis in about half of PAL patients.
Determinants of depression in chronic stroke: a prospective cohort study.	The aim of the study was to identify factors that are significantly related to depression in chronic stroke patients.
Relationship between self-reported upper limb disability and quantitative tests in hand-arm vibration syndrome.	To establish the relationship between quantitative tests of hand function and upper limb disability, as measured by the Disability of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire, in hand-arm vibration syndrome (HAVS).
The development and validation of the Indigenous Risk Impact Screen (IRIS): a 13-item screening instrument for alcohol and drug and mental health risk.	The study aimed to assess the psychometric properties of the Indigenous Risk Impact Screen (IRIS) as a screening instrument for determining (i) the presence of alcohol and drug and mental health risk in Indigenous adult Australians and (ii) the cut-off scores that discriminate most effectively between the presence and absence of risk. A cross-sectional survey was used in clinical and non-clinical Indigenous and non-Indigenous services across Queensland Australia. A total of 175 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people from urban, rural, regional and remote locations in Queensland took part in the study. Measures included the Indigenous Risk Impact Screen (IRIS), the Severity of Dependence Scale (SDS), the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) and the Leeds Dependence Questionnaire (LDQ). Additional Mental Health measures included the Depression Anxiety and Stress Scale (DASS-21) and the Self-Report Questionnaire (SRQ). Principle axis factoring analysis of the IRIS revealed two factors corresponding with (i) alcohol and drug and (ii) mental health. The IRIS alcohol and drug and mental health subscales demonstrated good convergent validity with other well-established screening instruments and both subscales showed high internal consistency. A receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis was used to generate cut-offs for the two subscales and t-tests validated the utility of these cut-offs for determining risky levels of drinking. The study validated statistically the utility of the IRIS as a screen for alcohol and drug and mental health risk. The instrument is therefore recommended as a brief screening instrument for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.
Extent of myocardial hyperenhancement on late gadolinium-enhanced cardiovascular magnetic resonance correlates with q waves in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	Despite several electrocardiographic, echocardiographic, electrophysiologic and pathologic studies, the cause of abnormal Q waves in patients with HCM remains unclear. Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) is a powerful in vivo diagnostic tool for evaluating cardiac morphology and function. We hypothesized that estimation of segmental and transmural extent of myocardial enhancement by late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) CMR could clarify the basis of Q waves. The purpose of this prospective study was to evaluate the morphological basis of abnormal Q waves in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) as assessed by CMR.
Comparing Mattis Dementia Rating Scale--initiation/perseveration subset and frontal assessment battery in stroke associated with small vessel disease.	Forty-two controls and 32 patients with stroke associated with small vessel disease (SSVD) were administered the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale Initiation / Perseveration subset (MDRS I/P) and Frontal Assessment Battery (FAB). Both tests showed comparably good ability in Receiver Operating Characteristics curves analysis (AUCMDRS I/P=0.887; AUC FAB=0.854, p=.833) in discriminating between controls and patients and correctly classified over 78% of subjects. Verbal fluency and motor programming contributed most to the discriminating power in the two tests. The MDRS I/P and FAB are useful in discriminating between controls and SSVD patients in a hospital setting.
Interleukin-6 and lipopolysaccharide-binding protein in acute appendicitis in children.	The aim of the study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP) in children with acute appendicitis (AA) and to compare this with the diagnostic accuracy of routinely used C-reactive protein (CRP) and white blood cell (WBC) count. Eighty-two consecutive children admitted to our Department because of suspected AA were enrolled in this prospective study and classified into two groups: group 1 (49 children who underwent surgery for AA) and group 2 (33 children with no surgery with diagnosis of non-specific abdominal pain or sonographic mesenteric lymphadenitis). There were no negative appendectomies during the time of the study. The patients were further classified into three subgroups: subgroup 1A (43 patients with advanced AA), subgroup 2A (11 patients with mesenteric lymphadenitis) and subgroup 2B (10 patients with non-specific abdominal pain). The perforation rate was 32.7 %. WBC count and serum CRP, IL-6 and LBP were measured on admission. Area under receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC), sensitivity, specificity and predictive values were evaluated. Serum IL-6 and LBP were significantly higher in group 1 than in group 2. The highest AUC for AA was that for IL-6 (0.776), followed by WBC count (0.684), CRP (0.637) and LBP (0.635). In conclusion, only IL-6, determined on admission, showed medium diagnostic accuracy, while other laboratory markers showed low diagnostic accuracy for AA in children. The new laboratory markers therefore do not significantly improve the diagnosis of AA.
Short-term serial sampling of natriuretic peptides in patients presenting with chest pain.	The purpose of this study was to characterize the diagnostic and prognostic utility of short-term dynamic changes in natriuretic peptides in patients presenting with chest pain.
Alternate circulating pro-B-type natriuretic peptide and B-type natriuretic peptide forms in the general population.	This study was designed to determine whether alternate pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (proBNP) and BNP forms circulate in the general population.
The utility of the AUDIT in screening for drinking game involvement among female college students.	Drinking games (DG) facilitate heavy alcohol consumption in a short period and are associated with negative experiences. We examined the utility of Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) cut-off scores to identify DG involvement. Findings indicated an AUDIT score of at least 5 is needed to identify gamers among students at a women's college. Prevention implications are discussed.
Does the age of liquid crystal displays influence observer performance?	As liquid crystal displays (LCDs) age, the whitepoint shifts toward a yellow hue, changing the appearance of the displayed images. This study examined whether this shift in whitepoint influences observer performance and visual search efficiency of radiologists interpreting clinical images.
The utility of Lens culinaris agglutinin-reactive alpha-fetoprotein in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma: evaluation in a United States referral population.	The percentage of Lens culinaris agglutinin-reactive (alpha)-fetoprotein (AFP-L3%) is proposed as a diagnostic and prognostic marker for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We evaluated the utility of AFP-L3% for diagnosis of HCC in a US referral population.
Postresection parathyroid hormone and parathyroid hormone decline accurately predict hypocalcemia after thyroidectomy.	Hypocalcemia is the most frequent complication after total thyroidectomy. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) measurement has been proposed as an early predictor of this condition. Total thyroidectomy was performed in 39 patients. Hypocalcemia was present in 15 cases (38%). Patients undergoing hemithyroidectomy (n = 13) were considered control subjects not developing hypocalcemia. PTH was measured before surgery and 10 minutes after resection of the gland using a rapid (15 minutes) chemiluminescent immunometric assay. Patients developing hypocalcemia had lower calcium and postresection PTH levels and higher PTH decline than patients not developing hypocalcemia (P < .0001). PTH decline (cutoff value, 62.5%) had the better sensitivity (93.3%) for predicting hypocalcemia, allowing for a fairly safe early discharge. However, the best overall results corresponded to the combination of postresection PTH level (< or = 18 pg/mL [< or = 1.9 pmol/L]) and PTH decline (>62.5%), with a sensitivity of 90% and a specificity of 97.9%. Perioperative PTH measures can accurately predict hypocalcemia after thyroidectomy, granting the laboratory a key role in the immediate decision about calcium supplementation for patients at risk.
Identification of high-risk patients among those diagnosed with thin cutaneous melanomas.	Most patients with melanoma have microscopically thin (< or = 1 mm) primary lesions and are cured with excision. However, some develop metastatic disease that is often fatal. We evaluated established prognostic factors to develop classification schemes with better discrimination than current American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging.
Calculation of the circularvection times in a population with vestibular pathology. Influence of visual stimulus.	[corrected] To describe the results obtained for circularvection times (tCV) in a study of the phenomenon of visual-vestibular interaction for a population with vestibular pathology and to analyze differences in its calculation among patients reporting a worsening of their symptoms with visual stimuli.
Predicting intracranial traumatic findings on computed tomography in patients with minor head injury: the CHIP prediction rule.	Prediction rules for patients with minor head injury suggest that the use of computed tomography (CT) may be limited to certain patients at risk for intracranial complications. These rules apply only to patients with a history of loss of consciousness, which is frequently absent.
Serum macrophage inhibitory cytokine-1 concentrations correlate with the presence of prostate cancer bone metastases.	Macrophage-inhibitory cytokine-1 (MIC-1) is a divergent member of the transforming growth factor beta superfamily. It is up-regulated by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and is highly expressed in human prostate cancer leading to high serum MIC-1 concentrations with advanced disease. A role for MIC-1 has been implicated in the process of early bone formation, suggesting that it may also mediate sclerosis at the site of prostate cancer bone metastases. Consequently, the aim of this study was to retrospectively determine the relationship of serum MIC-1 concentration and other markers related to current and future prostate cancer bone metastasis in a cohort of 159 patients with prostate cancer. Serum markers included cross-linked carboxy-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen, prostate-specific antigen, and amino-terminal propeptide of type I procollagen (PINP). The mean values of all the biomarkers studied were significantly higher in patients with baseline bone metastases (BM+, n = 35), when compared with those without bone metastases (BM-, n = 124). In a multivariate logistic model, both MIC-1 and PINP independently predicted the presence of baseline bone metastasis. Based on receiver operator curve analysis, the best predictor for the presence of baseline bone metastasis was MIC-1, which was significantly better than carboxy-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen, prostate-specific antigen, and PINP. Patients who experienced bone relapse had significantly higher levels of baseline MIC-1 compared with patients who did not (1476.7 versus 988.4; P = 0.03). Current use of acetylsalicylic acid did not influence serum MIC-1 levels in this cohort. Although requiring validation prospectively, these results suggest that serum MIC-1 determination may be a valuable tool for the diagnosis of current and future bone metastases in patients with prostate cancer.
Multidimensionality of the Alcohol Withdrawal Symptom Checklist: a factor analysis of the Alcohol Withdrawal Symptom Checklist and CIWA-Ar.	This study evaluated the factor structure of 2 scales for measuring the severity of the alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS): a self-rated scale, the Alcohol Withdrawal Symptoms Checklist (AWSC), and an observer-rated scale, the Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment-Alcohol, Revised (CIWA-Ar).
What's under the ROC? An introduction to receiver operating characteristics curves.	It is often necessary to dichotomize a continuous scale to separate respondents into normal and abnormal groups. However, because the distributions of the scores in these 2 groups most often overlap, any cut point that is chosen will result in 2 types of errors: false negatives (that is, abnormal cases judged to be normal) and false positives (that is, normal cases placed in the abnormal group). Changing the cut point will alter the numbers of erroneous judgments but will not eliminate the problem. A technique called receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves allows us to determine the ability ofa test to discriminate between groups, to choose the optimal cut point, and to compare the performance of 2 or more tests. We discuss how to calculate and compareROC curves and the factors that must be considered in choosing an optimal cut point.
Elevated level of interleukin-6 predicts organ failure and severe disease in patients with acute pancreatitis.	Cytokines play an important role in the pathogenesis of acute pancreatitis (AP). The aim of the present paper was to study the profile of anti- and proinflammatory cytokines in AP and to determine their predictive value for severity of AP, organ failure and mortality.
Early breastfeeding cessation: validation of a prognostic breastfeeding score.	To validate a simple breastfeeding score to identify mothers who stop breastfeeding within 4 months after birth.
Understanding diagnostic tests 3: Receiver operating characteristic curves.	The results of many clinical tests are quantitative and are provided on a continuous scale. To help decide the presence or absence of disease, a cut-off point for 'normal' or 'abnormal' is chosen. The sensitivity and specificity of a test vary according to the level that is chosen as the cut-off point. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, a graphical technique for describing and comparing the accuracy of diagnostic tests, is obtained by plotting the sensitivity of a test on the y axis against 1-specificity on the x axis. Two methods commonly used to establish the optimal cut-off point include the point on the ROC curve closest to (0, 1) and the Youden index. The area under the ROC curve provides a measure of the overall performance of a diagnostic test. In this paper, the author explains how the ROC curve can be used to select optimal cut-off points for a test result, to assess the diagnostic accuracy of a test, and to compare the usefulness of tests.
Clinical usefulness and limitations of brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity in the evaluation of cardiovascular complications in hypertensive patients.	The goal of this study was to clarify the clinical usefulness and limitations of brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (PWV) to evaluate hypertensive complications, in comparison with carotid-femoral PWV. Patients with essential hypertension (n=296, male/female=161/135; age=61.1+/-0.7 years) were enrolled. We measured brachial-ankle PWV, femoral-ankle PWV and carotid-femoral PWV simultaneously, and evaluated target organ damage and associated clinical conditions (cerebrovascular and cardiovascular disease) using the World Health Organization classification modified in 1999. Carotid-femoral PWV (p<0.0001; r=0.521) and brachial-ankle PWV (p<0.0001; r=0.478) but not femoral-ankle PWV were significantly correlated with age. Carotid-femoral PWV was significantly higher in patients with associated clinical conditions compared with that in patients with target organ damage (p<0.05) and those with no complications (p<0.0001). Brachial-ankle PWV was significantly higher in patients with associated clinical conditions (p<0.05) and target organ damage (p<0.05) compared to those with no complications, but there was no significant difference in brachial-ankle PWV between these two groups. Moreover, femoral-ankle PWV was significantly lower in patients with associated clinical conditions compared with that in patients with target organ damage (p<0.05). These data suggest that brachial-ankle PWV could underestimate arterial stiffness in hypertensive patients with a history of cardiovascular events.
Risk prediction for Down's syndrome in young pregnant women using maternal serum biomarkers: determination of cut-off risk from receiver operating characteristic curve analysis.	The aim of this study was to establish a predictive model for Down's syndrome using maternal age as well as maternal serum levels of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) and human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), and to identify an optimal cut-off risk in women under the age of 35 years to improve sensitivity.
Reporting questionnaire for children as a screening instrument for child mental health problems in Iraqi Kurdistan.	To identify child mental health problems in a mid-sized to large city in Iraqi Kurdistan, the Reporting Questionnaire for Children (RQC), followed by the Child Behaviour Checklist (CBCL) and the Post-traumatic Stress Symptom Checklist for Children (PTSS-C), were administered in interview form to the caregivers of 806 school-aged children. To cover different categories of children, four samples were randomly selected from among the general population (n = 201), orphans (n = 241), primary medical care patients (n = 199), and hospital patients (n = 165). The RQC revealed satisfactory validity against a deviant CBCL cut-off. The screening capacity of the RQC was further supported by its similarity to the CBCL in distribution of problem scores among the four samples and its positive correlation with the CBCL, but not with the trauma-related PTSS-C. Although the general population showed lower problem scores than the orphans and the two clinical samples, problem scores in all instruments were considerably higher than those reported from other societies. The RQC seems to be useful as a first-stage screening instrument for child mental health problems in Kurdistan.
Usefulness of DeltaMELD/month for prediction of the mortality in the first episode of variceal bleeding patients with liver cirrhosis: comparison with CTP, MELD score and DeltaCTP/month]	There are many models for predicting prognosis of liver cirrhosis including Child Turcotte Pugh (CTP), the model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) score and its changes over time (DeltaCTP and DeltaMELD/month). We investigated the ability of these models to predict the mortality of liver cirrhosis patients with the first episode of variceal bleeding and which model can be usefully applied in practice.
Association between measured BMI and self-perceived body size in Mexican adults.	The study examined the association between perceived body size (through self-selection of Stunkard's body shape silhouettes) and measured body mass index (BMI) in Mexican Mestiso adult men and women, and determined the BMI values that corresponded to each silhouette.
Risk stratification by treadmill exercise echocardiography in patients with excellent exercise capacity.	The incremental value of exercise echocardiography (EE) has been demonstrated to be maximal in patients with moderate pretest probability for coronary artery disease, but there is a lack of data in patients with low pretest probability or patients with good functional capacity.
Diagnostic accuracy of blood lactate-to-pyruvate molar ratio in the differential diagnosis of congenital lactic acidosis.	Although the blood lactate-to-pyruvate (L:P) molar ratio is used to distinguish between pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency (PDH-D) and other causes of congenital lactic acidosis (CLA), its diagnostic accuracy for differentiating between these 2 types of CLA has not been evaluated formally.
Comparison of the diagnostic accuracy of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and the N-terminal part of the propeptide of BNP immunoassays in chronic and acute heart failure: a systematic review.	We used evidence-based laboratory medicine principles to compare the diagnostic accuracy of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and the N-terminal part of the propeptide of BNP (NT-proBNP) assays for the diagnosis of heart failure.
Identification of molecular biomarkers for multiple sclerosis.	Multiple sclerosis is a demyelinating disease of the central nervous system with a presumed autoimmune etiology. Previous microarray analyses identified conserved gene expression signatures in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with autoimmune diseases. We used quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis to identify a minimum number of genes of which transcript levels discriminated multiple sclerosis patients from patients with other chronic diseases and from controls. We used a computer program to search quantitative transcript levels to identify optimum ratios that distinguished among the different categories. A combination of a 4-ratio equation using expression levels of five genes segregated the multiple sclerosis cohort (n=55) from the control cohort (n=49) with a sensitivity of 91% and specificity of 98%. When autoimmune and other chronic disease groups were included (n=78), this discriminator still performed with a sensitivity of 79% and a specificity of 87%. This approach may have diagnostic utility not only for multiple sclerosis but also for other clinically complex autoimmune diseases.
Conventional CT for the prediction of an involved circumferential resection margin in primary rectal cancer.	To determine the accuracy of conventional computed tomography (CT) scan in the preoperative prediction of an involved circumferential resection margin (CRM) in primary rectal cancer.
Predicting Clostridium difficile toxin in hospitalized patients with antibiotic-associated diarrhea.	Clostridium difficile infection is implicated in 20%-30% of cases of antibiotic-associated diarrhea. Studying hospitalized patients who received antibiotic therapy and developed diarrhea, our objective was to compare the clinical characteristics of patients who developed C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) with those of patients with a negative result of a stool assay for C. difficile toxin.
Predictive factors for pneumonia onset after cardiac surgery in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.	To develop a predictive system for the occurrence of nosocomial pneumonia in patients who had cardiac surgery performed.
Risk adjustment for surgical site infection after median sternotomy in children.	To determine whether the National Nosocomial Infections Surveillance (NNIS) System risk index adequately stratified a population of pediatric patients undergoing cardiac surgery according to the risk of developing surgical site infection (SSI).
The diagnostic efficacy of urinary fractionated metanephrines measured by tandem mass spectrometry in detection of pheochromocytoma.	There are limitations to currently available biochemical tests for pheochromocytoma. Our objective was to evaluate the diagnostic efficacy of a novel tandem mass spectrometry assay for the measurement of fractionated urinary metanephrines in patients suspected to have a pheochromocytoma. We also developed clinically based cut-offs for positivity of this measurement.
Use of digital pressure measurements for the diagnosis of AV access-induced hand ischemia.	Diagnosis of hand ischemia secondary to an arteriovenous (AV) hemodialysis access is predominantly based on clinical findings. Occasionally, this diagnosis is unclear and more objective diagnostic testing is needed. No validated method of objective testing currently exists. The purpose of this study is to evaluate digital pressure measurements in the diagnosis of AV access-induced hand ischemia. A case-control study of 40 patients with an upper extremity AV access consisted of 15 patients (38%) with clinical AV access-induced hand ischemia and 25 patients (62%) without clinical evidence of ischemia. Arterial pressure in the third finger ipsilateral to the AV access was measured by digital photoplethysmography. Basal digital pressure (BDP), digital to contralateral brachial index (DBI), and change in digital pressure with access compression (CDP) were determined. Logistic regression modeling with gains tables and ROC calculations were used to determine optimal test thresholds and to test model discrimination for predicting AV access-induced hand ischemia. The mean BDP (30 vs 102 mmHg; p < 0.001) and mean DBI (0.3 vs 0.8; p < 0.001) were significantly lower in patients with AV access-induced hand ischemia than in those without. The accuracy for determining hand ischemia using a threshold-adjusted BDP of 60 mmHg was 92% (sensitivity 100%, specificity 87%) and using DBI of 0.4 was 94% (sensitivity 92%, specificity 96%). While the mean CDP was significantly higher in patients with hand ischemia (85 vs 40; p < 0.001), the accuracy for predicting ischemia was marginal (78%). In conclusion, a BDP less than 60 mmHg or a DBI less than 0.4 in a patient with an AV access were highly associated with hand ischemia. CDP's marginal discrimination ability likely stems from the presence of asymptomatic physiologic steal in the group without clinical steal. Nonetheless, CDP may be useful in identifying patients with ischemia who will not benefit from an intervention that specifically targets the AV access.
Full-limb and knee radiography assessments of varus-valgus alignment and their relationship to osteoarthritis disease features by magnetic resonance imaging.	To examine the correlation between hip-knee-ankle and femur-tibia radiograph angles, calculate the offset of the femur-tibia angle with respect to the hip-knee-ankle angle, calculate the sensitivity and specificity and area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve of the femur-tibia angle, and examine the relationship of malalignment by each approach with osteoarthritis (OA) tissue pathology in the mechanically stressed compartment using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Human serum fetuin A/alpha2HS-glycoprotein level is associated with long-term survival in patients with alcoholic liver cirrhosis, comparison with the Child-Pugh and MELD scores.	Serum concentration of fetuin A/alpha2HS-glycoprotein (AHSG) is a good indicator of liver cell function and 1-month mortality in patients with alcoholic liver cirrhosis and liver cancer. We intended to determine whether decreased serum AHSG levels are associated with long-term mortality and whether the follow-up of serum AHSG levels can add to the predictive value of the Child-Pugh (CP) and MELD scores.
Diagnostic accuracy of ELISA and xMAP technology for analysis of amyloid beta(42) and tau proteins.	Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of amyloid beta(42) (Abeta(42)) peptides and tau proteins may serve as biomarkers for Alzheimer disease (AD). Recently, the xMAP technology has been introduced as an alternative to ELISA for measurement of these markers.
Comparison of two dietary folate intake instruments and their validation by RBC folate.	An optimal folate nutritional status is important in minimizing developmental and degenerative disease. Therefore, constant monitoring of folate intake and of biomarkers of folate nutritional status is essential. The objective of this research was to compare two folate intake instruments and validate each one against RBC folate measured by a high-throughput liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (HT LC-MS/MS) method described in the companion paper (Owens, J. E.; Holstege, D. M.; Clifford, A. J. J. Agric. Food Chem. 2007, 55, 3292-3297). A food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) and a folate-targeted semiquantitative Block dietary folate equivalents (DFE) screener were compared and individually validated against an HT LC-MS/MS method. RBC folate was 1178 +/- 259 nmol/L (mean +/- SD) in a population of 337 normal adult subjects. Folate intakes were 556 +/- 265 microg/day by the FFQ and 524 +/- 276 microg/day by the DFE screener. Folate intakes by the DFE screener were approximately 34 microg less than by the FFQ (paired t test, p<0.01), but the intake instruments were highly correlated for total folate intake (r=0.608, p<0.01). Correlations between instruments and RBC folate were low (r<0.35) but strong (p<0.01). ROC curve analysis indicates that the measurement of RBC folate by the HT LC-MS/MS method is a better predictive tool than are intake instruments for the evaluation of marginal folate status.
Estimating the statistical significance of peptide identifications from shotgun proteomics experiments.	We present a wrapper-based approach to estimate and control the false discovery rate for peptide identifications using the outputs from multiple commercially available MS/MS search engines. Features of the approach include the flexibility to combine output from multiple search engines with sequence and spectral derived features in a flexible classification model to produce a score associated with correct peptide identifications. This classification model score from a reversed database search is taken as the null distribution for estimating p-values and false discovery rates using a simple and established statistical procedure. Results from 10 analyses of rat sera on an LTQ-FT mass spectrometer indicate that the method is well calibrated for controlling the proportion of false positives in a set of reported peptide identifications while correctly identifying more peptides than rule-based methods using one search engine alone.
Frequency doubling perimetry and short-wavelength automated perimetry to detect early glaucoma.	To compare the ability of short-wavelength automated perimetry (SWAP) and frequency doubling perimetry (FDP) to detect early glaucoma damage.
Pregnancy diagnosis in dairy cows by whey progesterone analysis: an ROC approach.	Concentration of progesterone in milk may be used to predict pregnancy status of dairy cattle by the 21st day after insemination. However, the accuracy of this method may be affected by fat-solubility of progesterone and sample storage conditions. After coagulation of a milk sample with rennet, an alternative method is to quantify progesterone concentration in whey with a novel, validated EIA. In this experiment, a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed to estimate the optimal discrimination point for whey progesterone concentration, using a sample of 991 Friesian cows evaluated between the 42nd and 44th day after insemination. Cows also were diagnosed for pregnancy by rectal palpation at this time. The overall conception rate at palpation was 57%. ROC analysis indicated that 259 pg/mL progesterone in whey was the most effective cutoff to discriminate correctly between pregnant and non-pregnant cows. Using this point for prediction, sensitivity was 98.2%, specificity was 70.9% and the area under ROC curve was 0.859, levels generally considered to denote moderate accuracy. The negative likelihood ratio at the cutoff of 259 pg/mL was 0.02, indicating satisfactory performance in detecting negative subjects, while the positive likelihood ratio (+LR=3.37) suggested average performance. In conclusion, EIA of progesterone concentration in whey is a viable method for predicting pregnancy status in cows. However, operators should take management objectives for the herd into account in determining the cutoff point and also considering important influencing variables such as conception rate in the herd. This method can provide diagnostic support for efforts to improve reproductive success, especially in low-fertility herds.
Predictors of successful resuscitation in non-trauma dead-on-arrival children.	Dead-on-arrival (DOA) children pose difficult challenges in resuscitation because of the very low survival rate. In this study, we aimed to analyze the factors that may be related to predicting successful cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).
Optimizing electrode positions and analysis strategies for multifocal VEP recordings by ROC analysis.	The multifocal visual evoked potential (mfVEP) is an important tool to test visual pathway function. The aim of this study was to optimize electrode positions in mfVEP recordings. For analysis we applied a receiver operating characteristic (ROC), a method that inherently corrects for multiple testing. We found that a combination of two perpendicular derivations-both straddling the inion-was the most effective recording setup. Adding more than two derivations did not significantly increase the sensitivity. Thus optimal mfVEP detection can be achieved with a fairly simple recording setup which may facilitate mfVEP recordings in basic research and clinical routine.
Profiling tumor-associated antibodies for early detection of non-small cell lung cancer.	A blood test for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) may be a valuable tool for use in a comprehensive lung cancer screening strategy. Here we report the potential of autoantibody profiling to detect early-stage and occult NSCLC.
Calf muscle perfusion at peak exercise in peripheral arterial disease: measurement by first-pass contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging.	To develop a contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) technique to measure skeletal muscle perfusion in peripheral arterial disease (PAD).
Optimizing the interpretation of CT for appendicitis: modeling health utilities for clinical practice.	Error in radiology can be reduced by standardizing the interpretation of imaging studies to the optimum sensitivity and specificity. In this report, the authors demonstrate how the optimal interpretation of appendiceal computed tomography (CT) can be determined and how it varies in different clinical scenarios.
Receiver operating characteristic analysis: a tool for the quantitative evaluation of observer performance and imaging systems.	Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis provides the most comprehensive description of diagnostic accuracy available to date, because it estimates and reports all of the combinations of sensitivity and specificity that a diagnostic test is able to provide. After sketching the 6 levels at which diagnostic efficacy can be assessed, this paper explains the conceptual foundations of conventional ROC analysis, describes a variety of indices that can be used to summarize ROC curves, and describes several forms of generalized ROC analysis that address situations in which more than 2 decision alternatives are available. Key issues that arise in ROC curve fitting and statistical testing are addressed in an intuitive way to provide a basis for judging the validity of ROC studies reported in the literature. A list of sources for free ROC software is provided. Receiver operating characteristic methodology has reached a level of maturity at which it can be recommended broadly as the approach of choice for radiologic imaging system comparisons.
Predictive value of N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide in severe sepsis and septic shock.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the predictive value of N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) on mortality in a large, unselected patient population with severe sepsis and septic shock.
Prediction of short-term and long-term outcomes after cardiac arrest: a prospective multivariate approach combining biochemical, clinical, electrophysiological, and neuropsychological investigations.	To determine the prognostic accuracy of biochemical, clinical, electrophysiological, and neuropsychological investigations in predicting outcomes after cardiac arrest.
Fisher's combined p-value for detecting differentially expressed genes using Affymetrix expression arrays.	Currently, most tests of differential gene expression using Affymetrix expression array data are performed using expression summary values representing each probe set on a microarray. Recently testing methods have been proposed which incorporate probe level information. We propose a new approach that uses Fisher's method of combining evidence from multiple sources of information. Specifically, we combine p-values from probe level tests of significance.
C-terminal provasopressin (copeptin) as a novel and prognostic marker in acute myocardial infarction: Leicester Acute Myocardial Infarction Peptide (LAMP) study.	The role of the vasopressin system after acute myocardial infarction is unclear. Copeptin, the C-terminal part of the vasopressin prohormone, is secreted stoichiometrically with vasopressin. We compared the prognostic value of copeptin and an established marker, N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NTproBNP), after acute myocardial infarction.
Efficacy of inverted digital luminescence radiography in evaluating chest neoplasms.	Inverted (positive) digital chest radiographs of patients with lung tumors were compared with commonly used (negative) digital images, consisting of one simulated normal and one contrast enhanced image. The first part of the material consisted of 80 patients of whom 40 had tumors and 40 were normal. Five radiologists with different experience reviewed the examinations. From their answers, ROC curves were constructed. The second part of the material consisted of 100 chest phantom examinations with a simulated tumor in the mediastinum (45 examinations) and/or the left lung (46 examinations). In 31 exposures there was no abnormality. These were reviewed by 3 observers and performed as an ROC study as well. There was no statistical difference between the different types of images or between the observers in the 2 studies.
Mllerian inhibiting substance is an accurate marker of ovarian response in women of advanced reproductive age undergoing IVF.	While multiple investigators have demonstrated that Mllerian inhibiting substance (MIS) concentration is an accurate marker of ovarian reserve, all previous reports have focused on patients aged 36 and younger. It remains to be seen if MIS concentration is a useful marker in patients with the highest prevalence of diminished ovarian reserve: those aged 37 and over. Day 2 MIS concentrations in patients aged 37 and over undergoing IVF were examined, and the predictive value of MIS concentration was compared to that of FSH and oestradiol concentration. Three groups of patients were studied: (i) patients who experienced cycle cancellation; (ii) patients who underwent oocyte retrieval; (iii) patients who were precluded from IVF due to elevated FSH concentrations. While FSH and oestradiol concentrations were statistically similar in groups 1 and 2, MIS concentrations were significantly lower in group 1. In group 2, MIS concentration positively correlated with the number of oocytes retrieved. In group 3, 91% had low or undetectable MIS concentrations. The results indicate that MIS concentration accurately predicts cycle cancellation that is belied by normal FSH and oestradiol measurements, and has a better correlation with the number of oocytes retrieved than FSH and oestradiol measurements.
Cervical electromyogram profile differences between patients of neck pain and control.	A comparative analysis of electromyogram (EMG) signals of patients of cervical pain and normal controls.
Serum pro-matrix metalloproteinase-3 as an indicator of disease activity and severity in rheumatoid arthritis: comparison with traditional markers.	Matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP-3) production increases in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and has been proposed as a marker of disease activity and joint damage. The aim of this cross-sectional study is to examine the usefulness of serum proMMP-3 as an indicator of disease activity and severity in comparison with erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP). Serum proMMP-3 was measured by a quantitative ELISA in 85 RA patients and 70 healthy subjects. Clinical and laboratory measures of disease activity and severity were obtained. Radiological joint damage was assessed by the method of Larsen. Serum proMMP-3 was significantly higher in RA patients than that in the healthy subjects. The active RA patients had significantly higher serum proMMP-3 than the inactive patients. Serum proMMP-3 was significantly correlated with some parameters of disease activity including swollen joints count, proximal interphalangeal joint score, morning stiffness, and Health Assessment Questionnaire; however, ESR and serum CRP were better correlated with all indicators of the disease activity than proMMP-3. The analysis of receiver operating characteristic supported that ESR and CRP had higher performance for reflection of activity compared to proMMP-3. There were no significant associations among Larsen score and proMMP-3, ESR, and CRP. Our results suggest that the cross-sectional measurement of serum proMMP-3 could not give additional information about RA disease activity compared to ESR and CRP, and could not give any information about joint damage.
Endosonographic diagnosis of solid pancreatic tumors: a retrospective analysis from a tertiary referral center.	The sensitivity of endosonography for pancreatic tumors is good, but differentiation between malignant and benign lesions remains a challenge. We, therefore, analyzed the correlation between endosonographic findings and pancreatic carcinoma in a population with a high prevalence of chronic pancreatitis.
Cutoff value of lipid-laden alveolar macrophages for diagnosing aspiration in infants and children.	Chronic passage of gastric and/or alimentary material into the airways is a frequent and difficult-to-diagnose condition. Because alveolar macrophages phagocytose aspirated material, it has been suggested that their identification is a useful diagnostic method. To know the usefulness of the lipid-laden alveolar macrophages (LLAM) index as a diagnostic tool for aspiration, children from 1 month to 16 years of age were included in three groups: G-I, children with pulmonary pathology and suspicion of aspiration by clinic or image evaluation; G-II, with pulmonary pathology without suspicion of aspiration; and G-III, without respiratory symptoms nor suspicion of aspiration. Bronchoalveolar lavage was obtained through bronchoscopy in G-I and G-II, and through endotracheal tube in G-III, and the LLAM index (0-400) was determined. A total of 112 patients (41, 30, and 41 in G-I to III, respectively) were studied. LLAM index (mean +/- SEM) was highest in G-I (233.2 +/- 5.5), as compared with G-II (187.8 +/- 11.6, P < 0.05), and G-III (108.5 +/- 13.5, P < 0.001). However, notable overlap of LLAM values was observed between G-I and G-II, and between G-II and G-III. When patients from G-I and G-III were jointly analyzed, the area under the ROC curve for diagnosing aspiration was 0.92, with a best cutoff value of >165 (98.6% sensitivity, 78.0% specificity, 87.8% overall accuracy). LLAM index, with a cutoff value of >165 is a useful diagnostic test for aspiration when there is suspicion of this condition. However, due to its low specificity, it does not discriminate other causes of chronic lung disease.
A novel high sensitivity ELISA for detection of antineutrophil cytoplasm antibodies against proteinase-3.	Conventional direct enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) for the detection of anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibodies (ANCA) often lack sensitivity because epitopes of the target antigen are hidden by binding to the ELISA plate. This study was designed to evaluate a novel ELISA method for detection of ANCA against proteinase-3 (PR3) for the diagnosis of Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) using PR3 presented in its native form.
Association between Chlamydia trachomatis and abnormal uterine bleeding.	The purpose was to identify distinct inflammatory markers in endometrial tissues of women with abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB) and Chlamydia trachomatis infection.
Prognostic indexes of mortality in pediatric intensive care units]	To assess the validity of the Pediatric Risk of Mortality score (PRISM), the Pediatric Index of Mortality (PIM) and the PIM 2 in two Spanish pediatric intensive care units.
Effects of optimization and image processing in digital chest radiography: an ROC study with an anthropomorphic phantom.	A digital system for chest radiography based on a large image intensifier was compared to a conventional film-screen system. The digital system was optimized with regard to spatial and contrast resolution and dose. The images were digitally processed for contrast and edge enhancement. A simulated pneumothorax and two simulated nodules were positioned over the lungs and the mediastinum of an anthropomorphic phantom. Observer performance was evaluated with ROC analysis. Five observers assessed the processed digital images and the conventional full-size radiographs. The time spent viewing the full-size radiographs and the digital images was recorded. For the simulated pneumothorax, the results showed perfect performance for the full-size radiographs and detectability was high also for the processed digital images. No significant difference in the detectability of the simulated nodules was seen between the two imaging systems. The results for the digital images showed a significantly improved detectability for the nodules in the mediastinum as compared to a previous ROC study where no optimization and image processing was available. No significant difference in detectability was seen between the former and the present ROC study for small nodules in the lung. No difference was seen in the time spent assessing the conventional full-size radiographs and the digital images. The study indicates that processed digital images produced by a large image intensifier are equal in image quality to conventional full-size radiographs for low-contrast objects such as nodules.
Digital chest radiography: should images be presented in negative or positive mode?	The observer performance for video monitor images presented in positive mode ('bones black') was compared to that of images presented in negative mode ('bones white') in a digital system for chest radiography based on a large image intensifier. In the first part of the study (I), the original, non-linear grey-scale reversal performed in the computer of the digital image intensifier system (DS1000) was studied together with fixed and variable settings of light and contrast. In the second part of the study (II), true grey-scale reversal performed in a minicomputer (Micro VAX II) where the images were also processed with edge and contrast enhancement, was studied. The time spent viewing the images was also recorded. Before the second part of the study, the image intensifier system was optimized with regard to spatial and contrast resolution and dose settings. Simulated pathology was randomly positioned over the lungs and the mediastinum of an anthropomorphic phantom. Observer performance was evaluated with Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis on the digital images. In the first part of the study, a significant advantage for the positive images was seen, but no significant difference between fixed and variable settings of light and contrast. In the second part of the study, no significant difference in the detectability of the test structures was seen between positive and negative images. A significant improvement in the detectability was seen between the first and the second part of the study for the nodules over the mediastinum in both negative and positive images. No significant difference in the time spent observing positive and negative images, was seen.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The quantitative immunoturbidimetric D-dimer method to rule out venous thromboembolism (VTE).	D-dimer measurement is a technique that may improve the diagnostic strategy for venous thrombo-embolism (VTE). To evaluate D-dimer accuracy in the diagnosis of VTE, we identified 116 patients at Charleston Area Medical Center in Charleston, W.Va., for whom D-dimer assay had been performed to screen for VTE. Forty-one had VTE diagnosis confirmed (VTE-Positive); and 75 were ruled out (VTE-Negative); all by radiologic studies. D-dimer values for 41 healthy individuals were also prospectively collected. D-dimer value ranges of VTE-Positive, VTE-Negative and Healthy Sample groups were 0.5-55, 0.5-15.9, and 0.4-3.24 mg/L. Cutoff values of 2.5, 2.1, 1.6, and 1 mg/L had sensitivities of 74%, 81%, 86% and 95%, with specificities of 60%, 48%, 32% and 12%, respectively. Negative predictive values were 80%, 81%, 79% and 82%, while positive predictive values were 52%, 48%, 43% and 39%, respectively. Our results show that quantitative D-dimer assays lack the accuracy to serve as a method for ruling out VTE.
Alterations in the serum glycome due to metastatic prostate cancer.	Glycomic profiles derived from human blood sera of 10 healthy males were compared to those from 24 prostate cancer patients. The profiles were acquired using MALDI-MS of permethylated N-glycans released from 10-microL sample aliquots. Quantitative permethylation was attained using solid-phase permethylation. Principal component analysis of the glycomic profiles revealed significant differences among the two sets, allowing their distinct clustering. The first principal component distinguished the 24 prostate cancer patients from the healthy individuals. It was determined that fucosylation of glycan structures is generally higher in cancer samples (ANOVA test p-value of 0.0006). Although more than 50 N-glycan structures were determined, 12 glycan structures, of which six were fucosylated, were significantly different between the two sample sets. Significant differences were confirmed through two independent statistical tests (ANOVA and ROC analyses). Ten of these structures had significantly higher relative intensities in the case of the cancer samples, while the other two were less abundant in the cancer samples. All 12 structures were statistically significant, as suggested by their very low ANOVA scores (<0.001) and ROC analysis, with area under the curve values close to 1 or 0. Accordingly, these structures can be considered as cancer-specific glycans and potential prostate cancer biomarkers. Therefore, serum glycomic profiling appears worthy of further investigation to define its role in cancer early detection and prognostication.
Automated analysis of myocardial deformation at dobutamine stress echocardiography: an angiographic validation.	We investigated the accuracy of automated analysis of myocardial deformation during dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE).
Fractal analysis of mammographic parenchymal patterns in breast cancer risk assessment.	To evaluate fractal-based computerized image analyses of mammographic parenchymal patterns in the task of differentiating between women at high risk and women at low risk for developing breast cancer.
Computer-aided mass detection based on ipsilateral multiview mammograms.	Recent reports on advances in computer-aided detection (CAD) indicate that current schemes miss early-stage breast cancers and result in a relatively large false-positive detection rate in order to achieve a high sensitivity rate for mass detection. This paper is inspired by the interpretation procedure from mammographers. The abnormal diagnosis can be derived from multiple views but is not available through single-view image analysis.
Digital mammography: comparative performance of color LCD and monochrome CRT displays.	To evaluate the comparative performance of high-fidelity liquid crystal display (LCD) and cathode ray tube (CRT) devices for mammography applications, and to assess the impact of LCD viewing angle on detection accuracy.
HER-2 expression in uterine cervix carcinogenesis.	To assess the expression and clinical significance of HER-2 protooncogene in the uterine cervix carcinogenesis.
Prevalence of dental anxiety among 5- to 8-year-old Taiwanese children.	Many people experience discomfort to a greater or lesser degree about the prospect of dental treatment. Dental treatment can be a terrible experience, especially for children with dental anxiety. This study estimated the prevalence of dental anxiety among 5- to 8-year-old children in Kaohsiung City, Taiwan.
The impact of maternal age, body mass index and maternal weight gain on the glucose challenge test in pregnancy.	The aim of this study was to determine whether maternal age, prepregnancy and mid-trimester body mass index (BMI), or excessive mid-pregnancy weight gain predict abnormal glucose challenge test (GCT) results.
Comparison of magnetic resonance perfusion imaging versus invasive fractional flow reserve for assessment of the hemodynamic significance of epicardial coronary artery stenosis.	This study evaluated whether first-pass perfusion cardiovascular magnetic resonance (FP-CMR) could predict the hemodynamic significance of epicardial coronary artery stenosis as defined by invasively determined fractional flow reserve at coronary angiography. In 19 patients with known coronary artery disease (CAD), the hemodynamic relevance of 22 stenoses (mean angiographic severity 73 +/- 9%) was determined using fractional flow reserve measurements (cutoff 0.75). Results were compared with a territorial index of myocardial perfusion reserve (MPR) derived from FP-CMR. In addition, 9 age-matched patients with low prevalence of risk factors and without CAD at angiography served as a control group. A cutoff of 1.5 for MPR separated hemodynamically relevant from nonrelevant stenoses with a sensitivity and specificity of 92% and 92%, respectively. The area under the receiver-operator characteristic curve was 0.97. In the patient group, territories supplied by arteries without significant stenosis (<or=50%) showed a lower MPR compared with the control group (p <0.0001), suggesting the presence of microvascular dysfunction. In conclusion, FP-CMR may be useful for assessment of the hemodynamic relevance of angiographically undetermined CAD.
Telomerase activity: a molecular marker for early diagnosis of bladder tumor]	Quantitative evaluation of telomerase activity in voided urine represents a molecular test for early diagnosis of bladder tumor. This test shows a high accuracy, mainly in males bladder tumor, and could be an important non invasive diagnostic tool for bladder cancer detection in high-risk groups screening programs.
Transient elastography: a new surrogate marker of liver fibrosis influenced by major changes of transaminases.	Liver stiffness was measured by transient elastography (FibroScan) in 228 consecutive patients with chronic viral hepatitis, with (115) or without cirrhosis (113), to study its correlations with serum transaminases [alanine aminotransferase (ALT)], fibrosis stage and surrogate noninvasive markers of fibrosis (APRI, FORNS, FibroTest and hyaluronic acid). The dynamic profiles of serum transaminases and liver stiffness were compared by multiple testing in 31 patients during a 6-month follow-up. We identified 8.3 and 14 kPa as the fibrosis >/=F2 and cirrhosis cut-offs, respectively: their sensitivities were 85.2%/78.3%; specificities 90.7%/98.2%; positive predictive values 93.9%/97.8%; negative predictive values 78.8%/81.6%; diagnostic accuracies 87.3%/88.2%. FibroScan performed better than the other surrogate markers of fibrosis (P < 0.001). Other than fibrosis, other factors independently associated with liver stiffness were ALT for all patients and chronic hepatitis patients (P < 0.001), and 12-month persistently normal ALT (biochemical remission, P < 0.001) in cirrhotics. In patients with biochemical remission either spontaneous or after antiviral therapy (48 of 228, 21%), liver stiffness was lower than in patients with identical fibrosis stage, but elevated ALT (P < 0.001). The liver stiffness dynamic profiles paralleled those of ALT, increasing 1.3- to 3-fold during ALT flares in 10 patients with hepatitis exacerbations. Liver stiffness remained unchanged in 21 with stable biochemical activity (P = 0.001). In conclusion, transient elastography is a new liver parameter that behaves as a reliable surrogate marker of fibrosis in chronic viral hepatitis patients, provided that its relationship with major changes of biochemical activity is taken into account.
Loss of raf-1 kinase inhibitor protein expression is associated with tumor progression and metastasis in colorectal cancer.	Raf-1 kinase inhibitor protein (RKIP) is known as a critical down-regulator of the mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway and a potential molecular determinant of malignant metastasis. The aim of this study was to determine the prognostic significance of RKIP expression in colorectal cancer (CRC). Immunohistochemical staining for RKIP was performed on a tissue microarray comprising 1,197 mismatch repair (MMR)-proficient and 141 MMRdeficient CRCs. The association of RKIP with clinicopathologic features was analyzed. Loss of cytoplasmic RKIP was associated with distant metastasis (P = .038), higher N stage (P = .032), vascular invasion (P = .01), and worse survival (P = .001) in the MMR-proficient group. In MMR-deficient CRCs, loss of cytoplasmic RKIP was associated with distant metastasis (P = .043) and independently predicted worse survival (P = .004). Methylation analysis of 28 cases showed that loss of RKIP expression is unlikely to be due to promoter methylation.Loss of RKIP expression is a marker of tumor progression and distant metastasis in MMR-proficient and MMR-deficient CRCs.
Nerve fibre layer analysis with GDx with a variable corneal compensator in patients with multiple sclerosis.	To evaluate the ability of GDx with variable corneal compensator (VCC) compared to visual-evoked potentials (VEPs) and standard automated perimetry (SAP) in the detection of early optic nerve damage in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS).
Discriminating ability of Humphrey matrix perimetry in early glaucoma patients.	To determine the discriminating ability of some parameters provided by Humphrey Matrix perimetry for early glaucoma detection.
Diffusion-weighted MRI in evaluating liver fibrosis: a feasibility study in cirrhotic patients.	This study was designed to establish whether the measurement of apparent diffusion coefficients (ADCs) is clinically accurate in diagnosing liver fibrosis in a selected series of cirrhotic patients.
Molecular PCA3 diagnostics on prostatic fluid.	The PCA3 test on urine can improve specificity in prostate cancer (PCa) diagnosis and could prevent unnecessary prostate biopsies. In this study, we evaluated the PCA3 test on prostatic fluid and compared this with the PCA3 test on urine in a clinical research setting.
Combining two mammographic projections in a computer aided mass detection method.	A method is presented to improve computer aided detection (CAD) results for masses in mammograms by fusing information obtained from two views of the same breast. It is based on a previously developed approach to link potentially suspicious regions in mediolateral oblique (MLO) and craniocaudal (CC) views. Using correspondence between regions, we extended our CAD scheme by building a cascaded multiple-classifier system, in which the last stage computes suspiciousness of an initially detected region conditional on the existence and similarity of a linked candidate region in the other view. We compared the two-view detection system with the single-view detection method using free-response receiver operating characteristic (FROC) analysis and cross validation. The dataset used in the evaluation consisted of 948 four-view mammograms, including 412 cancer cases with a mass, architectural distortion, or asymmetry. A statistically significant improvement was found in the lesion based detection performance. At a false positive (FP) rate of 0.1 FP/image, the lesion sensitivity improved from 56% to 61%. Case based sensitivity did not improve.
Bone density measurement: quantitative ultrasound of the calcaneus and distal radius. A comparison with dual spectrum X-ray absorptiometry]	Quantitative ultrasound (QUS) has been successfully used for more than a decade in predicting the risk of osteoporotic fractures. However, the "gold standard" in the diagnosis of osteoporosis is dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). The aim of this study was to perform QUS at the calcaneus and distal radius, as well as DXA over the lumbar spine and proximal femur in women and to compare both QUS results with the DXA ones.
Optimization of the cutoff value for the Aspergillus double-sandwich enzyme immunoassay.	Many health care centers worldwide use the Platelia Aspergillus enzyme immunoassay (PA-EIA; Bio-Rad Laboratories) for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA). A cutoff optical density (OD) index of 1.5 was originally recommended by the manufacturer, but in practice, most institutions use lower cutoff values. Moreover, a cutoff OD index of 0.5 was recently approved in the United States. In the present study, we set out to optimize the cutoff level by performing a retrospective analysis of PA-EIA values for samples that had been obtained prospectively from adult patients at risk for IA at 2 European health care centers.
Structured assessment of mental health status in psychogeriatrics: validity of the French HoNOS65+.	To assess the reliability, validity, and feasibility of a French version of the Health of the Nation Outcome Scales for Elderly People (HoNOS65+).
Fetal brain magnetic resonance imaging response acutely to hypoxia-ischemia predicts postnatal outcome.	Cerebral palsy (CP) is caused by either hypoxia-ischemia (H-I) or long-standing causative factors such as inflammation or genetics. Multiple pathophysiological events over time are thought to contribute eventually to cerebral palsy. Our objective was to examine whether the immediate response of the fetus to an acute H-I event determined the motor deficits associated with cerebral palsy.
Predicting preterm delivery in asymptomatic patients with prior preterm delivery by measurement of cervical length and phosphorylated insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-1.	To evaluate the efficacy of cervical length measurement in combination with a bedside assessment of phosphorylated insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-1 (phIGFBP-1) as a predictor of preterm delivery in asymptomatic pregnant women with a history of preterm birth.
Transvaginal sonographic measurement of cervical length vs. Bishop score in labor induction at term: tolerability and prediction of Cesarean delivery.	To compare transvaginal sonography for cervical length measurement and digital examination for Bishop score assessment in women undergoing labor induction at term, to assess their tolerability (in terms of pain) and ability to predict need for Cesarean delivery.
Discordance in nuchal translucency thickness in the prediction of severe twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome.	To examine in monochorionic pregnancies the possible value of intertwin discordance in nuchal translucency (NT) thickness in the prediction of early fetal death or severe twin-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS).
Development and internal validation of a nomogram to predict macrosomia.	To develop a nomogram to predict macrosomia with a combination of clinical and ultrasound variables.
Prevalence and characteristics of moderate to severe pulmonary hypertension in systemic sclerosis with and without interstitial lung disease.	To determine the prevalence and characteristics of moderate to severe pulmonary hypertension (PH) in patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc) with and without interstitial lung disease (ILD).
Influence of nonclassical cardiovascular risk factors on the accuracy of predicting subclinical atherosclerosis in rheumatoid arthritis.	To determine whether nontraditional risk factors increase the accuracy of predicting the presence of carotid artery plaque based on traditional cardiovascular risk factors only in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
The outcome index and system outcome score: a method of quality assurance through outcome analysis in the special care area.	A scoring system intended to assess mortality risk and permit surveillance, evaluation and comparison of medical care was developed in our Surgical Intensive Care Unit. Five simple clinical components were identified and assigned scores according to their statistically validated relationship to mortality and the summation of the component scores resulted in a daily System Outcome Score (SOS). Cluster analysis was used to divide the creation data set of 2,777 patients into suitable groupings of scores to predict mortality and the clustering was confirmed for reproducibility with a validation set of an additional 2,860 patients. Two patient care surveillance techniques were then developed. The first involved the definition of three unfavourable SOS patterns evolving during the course of a patient's admission and detection of one or more of these patterns permits identification of specific patients for whom review of care delivered may be appropriate. The second involves a global assessment of care utilizing the Outcome Index (OI) which relates overall mortality risk in the unit to the actual mortality rate over a given time period. The effectiveness of care can then be compared between different time periods within the one unit or between different units with similar patient mix. A simple menu driven program has been developed for the IBM personal computer and clones that facilitates data storage and retrieval, production of outcome reports and customization of the scoring ranges to meet local standards of performance.
Duplex ultrasonography is an efficient diagnostic tool for the detection of moderate to severe internal carotid artery stenosis.	The aim of this prospective national multicentre study with 10 participating university and county hospitals was to establish the diagnostic accuracy of carotid duplex sonography in the identification of >or=70% internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis defined according to European Carotid Surgery Trial (ECST) criteria.
Neural correlates of recollection and familiarity: a review of neuroimaging and patient data.	Dual-process models of recognition memory suggest that two processes contribute to performance: recollection and familiarity. Recent work suggests that the two processes are dissociable at the level of the brain. Here we review 12 studies that used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), and 21 studies of patients with damage to various brain regions, which examined recollection and familiarity using the 'Remember-Know' (R/K), process dissociation procedure (PDP), or receiver operator characteristic (ROC) memory paradigms, for insights into the neural basis of each process. Results show that recollection and familiarity are characterized by different patterns of brain activity in frontal, parietal, sensory, and medial temporal cortices. Results suggest that recollection and familiarity cannot be dissociated based on confidence levels alone, and that the two processes are not exclusive. Based on these results, we propose a model in which recollection and familiarity can be dissociated in two ways: recruitment of additional brain regions in frontal, medial temporal, and content-specific cortices during recollection, and in variations in coherence of brain networks activated during recollective- or familiarity-based processing.
Comparison of the chronotropic response to exercise and heart rate recovery in predicting cardiovascular mortality.	Both an impaired capacity to increase heart rate during exercise testing (chronotropic incompetence), and a slowed rate of recovery following exercise (heart rate recovery) have been shown to be associated with all-cause mortality. It is, however, unknown which of these responses more powerfully predicts risk, and few data are available on their association with cardiovascular mortality or how they are influenced by beta-blockade.
Disialotransferrin, determined by capillary electrophoresis, is an accurate biomarker for alcoholic cause of acute pancreatitis.	Serum disialotransferrin is a specific marker of heavy alcohol consumption. We tested its accuracy and probability in detecting alcoholic cause of acute pancreatitis (AP).
CEACAM1, a novel serum biomarker for pancreatic cancer.	Serum biomarkers for early diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma are not currently available. We recently observed elevated expression of CEACAM1 in pancreatic adenocarcinomas and sought to determine whether serum CEACAM1 levels were elevated in pancreatic cancer patients.
The psychometric properties of the Dutch version of the Telephone Interview Cognitive Status (TICS)]	The Telephone Interview Cognitive Status (TICS) is an instrument to screen for dementia in older persons by telephone. Although the psychometric properties of the TICS have been studied in various countries, the quality of the Dutch version of the TICS was yet unknown. This paper presents the Dutch version of the TICS and reports on its reliability and validity among 51 patients of Maastricht University Hospital, The Netherlands. The Pearson and intra-class correlations for test-retest reliability were 0.93 and 0.92, respectively. The Pearson and intra-class correlations for inter-rater reliability were 0.91 and 0.90, respectively. Sensitivity and specificity were studied in relation to the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE, cut-off point 23/ 24) and the diagnosis of dementia as assessed according to DSM-IV criteria. When using the TICS cut-off point of 26/27, the coefficients for sensitivity and specificity were at least 0.80. The percentages ROC under the curve were 90% and 93% with the MMSE and the diagnosis dementia as criterion, respectively. We conclude that the Dutch version of the TICS is an acceptable instrument for screening for dementia in older persons, particularly when face-to-face contact is not possible.
Model checking for ROC regression analysis.	The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve is a prominent tool for characterizing the accuracy of a continuous diagnostic test. To account for factors that might influence the test accuracy, various ROC regression methods have been proposed. However, as in any regression analysis, when the assumed models do not fit the data well, these methods may render invalid and misleading results. To date, practical model-checking techniques suitable for validating existing ROC regression models are not yet available. In this article, we develop cumulative residual-based procedures to graphically and numerically assess the goodness of fit for some commonly used ROC regression models, and show how specific components of these models can be examined within this framework. We derive asymptotic null distributions for the residual processes and discuss resampling procedures to approximate these distributions in practice. We illustrate our methods with a dataset from the cystic fibrosis registry.
Comparison of Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) II score with organ failure scores to predict hospital mortality.	This study compared the performance of the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) II score with two organ failure scores in predicting hospital mortality of critically ill patients. A total of 1311 consecutive adult patients in a tertiary 22-bed multidisciplinary intensive care unit (ICU) in Western Australia were considered. The APACHE II score had a better calibration and discrimination than the Max Sequential Organ Failure Score (Max SOFA) (area under receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve 0.858 vs 0.829), Admission SOFA (area under ROC 0.858 vs 0.791), and the first day or cumulative 5-day Royal Perth Hospital Intensive Care Unit (RPHICU) organ failure score (area under ROC 0.858 vs 0.822 and 0.819, respectively) in predicting hospital mortality. The APACHE II score predicted hospital mortality of critically ill patients better than the SOFA and RPHICU organ failure scores in our ICU.
Observation-based early warning scores to detect impending critical illness predict in-hospital and overall survival in patients undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation.	Observation-based early warning scoring systems (EWSS) have been developed to improve the outcome of critically ill patients by triggering early critical care intervention. To date, none of these scoring systems have been evaluated in cancer patients or stem cell transplant (SCT) recipients. The aim of this study was to validate 3 established EWSS (modified early warning score [MEWS], patient-at-risk score [PARS], and Leed's early warning score [LEWS]) in adult recipients of Allogeneic SCT (Allo-SCT) and to determine their usefulness at predicting survival. We retrospectively analyzed the physiologic observations during the initial admission of 43 Allo-SCT recipients. Respiratory dysfunction was the most common (40 patients, 93%) event. All 3 EWSS revealed high accuracy in predicting in-hospital survival. The cutoff level associated with a high risk of in-hospital mortality was 7. Of 8 patients with a LEWS = 7, 6 died during their initial admission, whereas no patient with a lower score died (specificity 95%, sensitivity 100%). Acute clinical deterioration during the initial admission appeared to have an adverse effect on overall survival: in-hospital survivors with a LEWS >3 during their admission had a shorter median survival than patients with LEWS < or = 3, P = .018. This is the first study to validate EWSS in Allo-SCT and demonstrate that these systems are highly predictive of in-hospital and overall survival.
The mandibular cortex on radiographs as a tool for osteoporosis risk assessment: the OSTEODENT Project.	The aim of this study was to measure the accuracy of porosity of the mandibular cortex on dental panoramic radiographs (DPRs) in diagnosis of osteoporosis, alone and in combination with a clinical risk index. Six hundred seventy-one women (45-70yr) were recruited in the study, and dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry of the hip and lumbar spine was performed. A clinical index of osteoporosis risk (OSIRIS) and a DPR were obtained for each subject. The cortical appearance on the DPR was classified using the mandibular cortical index (MCI) by 5 observers. receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed with calculation of area under the ROC curve (AUC) and sensitivity and specificity at various thresholds. Complete data were available for 653 subjects, of whom 21.6% had osteoporosis. The AUC for OSIRIS was 0.838. When used alone as the diagnostic test, MCI AUC for the 5 observers ranged from 0.560 to 0.670, significantly less than OSIRIS. Intraobserver and interobserver repeatability of MCI assessment was inconsistent. We conclude that MCI has limited value for osteoporosis diagnosis, being most appropriate as a method of fortuitous case-finding.
N-terminal prohormone brain natriuretic peptide as a marker for detecting low functional class patients and candidates for cardiac transplantation: linear correlation with exercise tolerance.	N-terminal prohormone brain natriuretic peptide (NT Pro BNP) plasma levels have been associated with indices of left ventricular (LV) function and aerobic capacity in heart failure. The aim of our study was to use NT Pro BNP for the prediction of low functional class patients and also to detect candidates for cardiac transplantation.
New CT criterion for acute appendicitis: maximum depth of intraluminal appendiceal fluid.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether a new criterion-maximum depth of the intraluminal appendiceal fluid-is useful to differentiate between a normal appendix with diameter greater than 6 mm and appendicitis without periappendiceal inflammation.
Detection of hepatocellular carcinoma on CT in liver transplant candidates: comparison of PACS tile and multisynchronized stack modes.	The objective of our study was to compare CT image interpretation using PACS tile and multisynchronized stack modes with respect to speed and observer performance for the detection of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in liver transplant candidates.
A time-insensitive predictive instrument for acute myocardial infarction mortality: a multicenter study.	This study develops a "time-insensitive" predictive instrument for acute myocardial infarction mortality that would be useful both as a real-time clinical decision aid in the emergency medical setting and also for retrospective assessment and comparison of medical care based on risk-adjusted mortality predictions. This was done using prospectively-collected data on 5,773 patients with chief complaints of chest pain or other symptoms suggesting acute cardiac ischemia who came to six New England hospitals over a 2-year period. In phase one, based upon 4,099 patients, multivariate logistic regression was used to develop the predictive instrument. In phase two, its accuracy and diagnostic performance were tested on an independent sample of 1,387 patients presenting with symptoms compatible with acute cardiac ischemia. Discrimination between patients who lived and those who died was reflected by receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve areas of 0.85, 0.80, and 0.76, respectively, for all emergency department study subjects regardless of final diagnosis, subjects who proved to be having acute cardiac ischemia, and subjects who proved to be having acute infarction. Good calibration was shown by the fact that the predicted mortality was found to not vary significantly from actual mortality rates across deciles of predicted probabilities from 0% to 100%. In phase three, based on all 945 study subjects with acute myocardial infarction, each of the six hospitals' actual mortality rates were compared to their rates predicted by the predictive instrument. Actual hospital mortality rates ranged from 9.9% to 19.3%, with one hospital having a significantly higher rate (P = 0.005) and two hospitals both). Predicted mortality rates ranged from 13.4% to 19.4%, with one hospital having a significantly higher predicted rate (P = 0.005) and two hospitals having significantly lower predicted rates (P = 0.04 and P = 0.03). Individual hospitals' differences between actual and predicted mortality ranged from -3.4% to +3.1% (all NS). When grouped by hospital type, the actual mortality rates were 14.9%, 17.3%, and 13.0%, respectively, for urban teaching, smaller city teaching, and rural nonteaching hospitals (all NS). The predicted mortality rates were 16.5%, 17.1%, and 13.6%, respectively, with the rate for rural nonteaching hospitals being significantly lower (P = 0.009). No hospital type had significant differences between their actual and predicted mortality rates (NS). The time-insensitive predictive instrument for acute infarction mortality shows potential for risk-adjusted studies of hospitals mortality for multihospital groups, hospital-to-hospital comparisons, and within-hospital assessment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Prenetal diagnosis: analysis of combined screening for first trimester]	Nowadays we are wittness of an outstanding increment in social demand related to prenatal diagnosis and genetic counsuelling. New life-style features have determined the sharp rise in pregnancies in women over 35 years of age. In this context, a recent interest on the risk of hereditary syndromes has developed. Only a few years ago, prenatal screening depended exclusively on epidemiologic data: age, and clinical past history. Due to a poor efficacy of these parameters, a new screening method based on sonographic and biochemical features is now considered to be mandatory. We describe our results of San Carlos Clinical Hospital including 4886 patients submitted to sonographic and biochemical screening during the first trimester of gestation, with a high sensitivity, acceptable false positive rate and a low cost/benefit rate. This information will determine an earlier decision making proccess, which will benefit both the mother and the fetus.
Exercise oscillatory breathing and increased ventilation to carbon dioxide production slope in heart failure: an unfavorable combination with high prognostic value.	Increased slope of exercise ventilation to carbon dioxide production (VE/VCO2) is an established prognosticator in patients with heart failure. Recently, the occurrence of exercise oscillatory breathing (EOB) has emerged as an additional strong indicator of survival.
Evaluation of the EuroSCORE model in the patient population of our department of cardiac surgery]	The objective of current study is the evaluation of the accuracy and precision of EuroSCORE in the population of those patients undergone cardiac surgery in our department.
Development of a ventilatory classification system in patients with heart failure.	Ventilatory efficiency, commonly assessed by the minute ventilation (VE)-carbon dioxide production (VCO2) slope, is a powerful prognostic marker in the heart failure population. The purpose of the present study is to refine the prognostic power of the VE/VCO2 slope by developing a ventilatory class system that correlates VE/VCO2 cut points to cardiac-related events.
Identifying traumatic brain injury in patients with isolated head trauma: are arterial lactate and base deficit as helpful as in polytrauma?	Increase in lactate (LAC) within the central nervous system after head trauma is an established marker of traumatic brain injury (TBI).
Predicting proteinuria in hypertensive pregnancies with urinary protein-creatinine or calcium-creatinine ratio.	Evaluate the value of random urinary protein-creatinine (PrCr) and calcium-creatinine (CaCr) ratios to predict 24-h proteinuria in hypertensive pregnancies.
Differentiation between the two types of amiodarone-associated thyrotoxicosis using duplex and amplitude Doppler sonography.	To evaluate the usefulness of Doppler parameters in the differentiation between the two types of amiodarone-associated thyrotoxicosis (AAT).
The development and validation of statistical prediction rules for discriminating between genuine and simulated suicide notes.	The suicide note is a valuable source of information for assisting police forces in equivocal death investigations. The present study endeavored to develop statistical prediction rules to discriminate between genuine and simulated suicide notes. Discriminant function analysis was performed on a sample of 33 genuine and 33 simulated notes to identify variables that serve as best predictors of note authenticity. Receiver operating characteristic analysis was then applied to validate these models and establish decision thresholds. The optimal model yielded an accuracy score of .82, with average sentence length and expression of positive affect being particularly effective at discriminating between the notes. Theoretical implications are discussed as are the practical advantages of applying receiver operating characteristic analysis in the investigation of equivocal deaths.
The use of amnestic and nonamnestic composite measures at different thresholds in the neuropsychological diagnosis of MCI.	Both amnestic and nonamnestic deficits have been observed in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Most studies have focused on impairment on single cognitive tests rather than amalgamation of the results of several measures to arrive at a composite impairment index. In this investigation, we examined 20 MCI patients diagnosed as prodromal Alzheimer's disease, AD (mean Mini-Mental State Examination, MMSE = 26.1; SD = 1.7) and determined the extent to which they could be differentiated from 70 normal elderly controls based on composite measures at 1.5-SD and 2.0-SD cutoffs for impairment. At the 1.5-SD cutoff, the median number of memory indices impaired in the MCI-AD group was 5 of 7, whereas at the 2.0-SD cutoff, the median number was 4 of 7. A median of 3 of 7 and 2 of 7 nonmemory indices were impaired at 1.5- and 2.0-SD cutoffs for impairment. Receiver operator characteristics (ROC) analyses indicated that the total number of memory tests impaired at 2.0 SD (sensitivity = 95.0%/specificity = 84.3%) and the composite measure of both impaired memory and nonmemory measures (sensitivity of 85.0%/specificity of 100%) had high levels of discrimination and may have utility as indices of early impairment as well as severity of MCI.
Does age at onset support a dimensional relationship between Bipolar II disorder and major depressive disorder?	The current categorical splitting of bipolar and depressive disorders has been questioned. Age at onset is an important variable used to support such a division. Study aim was to assess the distribution of age at onset between bipolar II disorder (BP-II) and major depressive disorder (MDD), and onset age-bipolar family history, onset age-BP-II diagnosis dose-response relationships. No bi-modal distribution and no presence of dose-response relationships would not support a categorical distinction between BP-II and MDD. Consecutive 389 BP-II and 261 MDD major depressive episode (MDE) outpatients were interviewed with the DSM-IV Structured Clinical Interview and the Family History Screen, by a mood specialist psychiatrist in a private practice. Age at onset was defined as age at onset of the first MDE. Distribution of age at onset between BP-II and MDD was studied by Kernel density estimate and histogram methods, dose-response relationships by ROC analysis. BP-II, versus MDD, had significantly lower age at onset, more recurrences, and more bipolar family history. Kernel density estimate and histogram distributions of age at onset showed no bi-modality. Likelihood ratios between age at onset and bipolar family history loading, and between age at onset and BP-II diagnosis, showed dose-response relationships. The bi-modality and dose-response approaches, versus classic diagnostic validators, seem to support a dimensional relationship between BP-II and MDD.
Description of a novel test for the early detection of Alzheimer's disease]	Diagnosing Alzheimer's disease (AD) as soon as possible is critical to achieve an effective treatment of patients.
Associations of obesity measures with metabolic risk factors in a community-based population in Japan.	The association of obesity measures (ie, body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC) and waist-to hip ratio (WHR)) with metabolic risk factors in community-based populations has not been well studied.
Critical assessment of the diagnostic value of feline alpha1-acid glycoprotein for feline infectious peritonitis using the likelihood ratios approach.	Alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AGP) increases in the blood of cats with feline infectious peritonitis (FIP), a lethal disease caused by feline coronavirus (FCoV). However, the diagnostic potential of AGP might be limited because AGP also increases in pathophysiological conditions other than FIP. In this retrospective study, the diagnostic potential of serum AGP concentration was evaluated on the basis of the pretest probability of disease, according to the Bayesian approach. Serum AGP levels from cats with FIP (group 1; n = 58) and without FIP (group 2; n = 104) were evaluated. Non-FIP cats were further subgrouped as follows: 2a) inflammation (n = 26), 2b) asymptomatic FCoV infection (n = 49), 2c) injection-site sarcoma (n = 19), 2d) postvaccination (n = 7), and 2e) specific pathogen free (n = 3). Standard descriptive analyses by group and empirical receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve estimation were performed. Ordinary logistic regression analysis was performed to derive an estimate of the continuous likelihood ratio to produce the posttest probability of disease for any combination of pretest probability and serum AGP value. The comparison of serum AGP levels in the different groups and the analysis of the ROC curve confirmed that serum AGP is a powerful discriminating marker for FIP. The Bayesian approach demonstrated that when the pretest probability of FIP is high, based on history and clinical signs (groups 1 or 2a), moderate serum AGP levels (1.5-2 mg/ml) can discriminate cats with FIP from others, while only high serum AGP levels (>3 mg/ml) can support a diagnosis of FIP in cats with a low pretest probability of disease (groups 2b to 2e).
Automated detection and differentiation of drusen, exudates, and cotton-wool spots in digital color fundus photographs for diabetic retinopathy diagnosis.	To describe and evaluate a machine learning-based, automated system to detect exudates and cotton-wool spots in digital color fundus photographs and differentiate them from drusen, for early diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy.
Utility of observer-rated and self-report instruments for detecting major depression in women after cardiac surgery: a pilot study.	Major depression is common after coronary artery bypass graft surgery and is associated with increased mortality and morbidity. Clinicians have few practical options for detecting depression, especially in women, who are at higher risk for depression than men.
Do tests devised to detect recent HIV-1 infection provide reliable estimates of incidence in Africa?	The objective of this study was to assess the performance of 4 biologic tests designed to detect recent HIV-1 infections in estimating incidence in West Africa (BED, Vironostika, Avidity, and IDE-V3). These tests were assessed on a panel of 135 samples from 79 HIV-1-positive regular blood donors from Abidjan, Cte d'Ivoire, whose date of seroconversion was known (Agence Nationale de Recherches sur le SIDA et les Hpatites Virales 1220 cohort). The 135 samples included 26 from recently infected patients (< or =180 days), 94 from AIDS-free subjects with long-standing infection (>180 days), and 15 from patients with clinical AIDS. The performance of each assay in estimating HIV incidence was assessed through simulations. The modified commercial assays gave the best results for sensitivity (100% for both), and the IDE-V3 technique gave the best result for specificity (96.3%). In a context like Abidjan, with a 10% HIV-1 prevalence associated with a 1% annual incidence, the estimated test-specific annual incidence rates would be 1.2% (IDE-V3), 5.5% (Vironostika), 6.2% (BED), and 11.2% (Avidity). Most of the specimens falsely classified as incident cases were from patients infected for >180 days but <1 year. The authors conclude that none of the 4 methods could currently be used to estimate HIV-1 incidence routinely in Cte d'Ivoire but that further adaptations might enhance their accuracy.
Fear perception: can objective and subjective awareness measures be dissociated?	Whereas previous studies of fearful-face perception have probed visual awareness according to either objective or subjective criteria, in the present study, we probed the perception of briefly presented and masked fearful faces by assessing both types of perception within the same task. Both objective and subjective sensitivity measures were assessed within a common signal detection theory framework. To evaluate single-participant awareness, we employed a nonparametric receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis of the behavioral data, which involved collecting a large number of trials over multiple sessions. Our findings revealed that nearly all subjects could reliably detect 17-ms fearful-face targets, thus exhibiting above-chance objective perception at this target duration. Reliable subjective sensitivity was also observed for 33-ms fearful-face targets and, for some subjects, even for 17-ms targets. The analysis of single-session data suggests that previous experiments may have lacked sufficient statistical power to establish above-chance performance. Taken together, our findings are consistent with a dissociation of fear perception according to objective and subjective criteria, which could be assessed for each individual participant. The determination of such a dissociation zone may help in understanding the conditions linked to aware and unaware fear perception.
In vitro comparison of conventional film and direct digital imaging in the detection of approximal caries.	To compare the diagnostic accuracy of conventional film, unenhanced direct digital and inversion grayscale direct digital imaging in the detection of approximal caries.
Can information on the purpose of spectacle use and age at first use predict refractive error type?	To assess the sensitivity and specificity of predicting refractive error type using information from a four-item questionnaire on the purpose of spectacle use and age at first use.
A prognostic model for 1-year mortality in older adults after hospital discharge.	To develop and validate a prognostic index for 1-year mortality of hospitalized older adults using standard administrative data readily available after discharge.
In vitro perception of low-contrast features in digital, film, and digitized dental radiographs: a receiver operating characteristic analysis.	To compare experimentally the image quality of charged-coupled device (CCD)-based digital, flatbed scanner digitized, and dental film radiographs.
The impact of ultrasound in suspected acute appendicitis.	To evaluate prospectively the impact of an appendix ultrasound (US) service on the clinical management of patients presenting with suspected acute appendicitis.
An analysis of the biochemical diagnosis of 66 pheochromocytomas.	The aims of this study were to determine the performance of each variable, to define the optimal diagnostic thresholds and to determine the relative value of assaying chromogranin A (CgA).
Specificity in protein interactions and its relationship with sequence diversity and coevolution.	Studies of interacting proteins have found correlated evolution of the sequences of binding partners, apparently as a result of compensating mutations to maintain specificity (i.e., molecular coevolution). Here, we analyze the coevolution of interacting proteins in yeast and demonstrate correlated evolution of binding partners in eukaryotes. Detailed investigation of this apparent coevolution, focusing on the proteins' surface and binding interface, surprisingly leads to no improvement in the correlation. We conclude that true coevolution, as characterized by compensatory mutations between binding partners, is unlikely to be chiefly responsible for the apparent correlated evolution. We postulate that the correlation between sequence alignments is simply due to interacting proteins being subject to similar constraints on their evolutionary rate. Because gene expression has a strong influence on evolutionary rate, and interacting proteins will tend to have similar levels of expression, we investigated this particular constraint. We found that the absolute expression level outperformed correlated evolution for predicting interacting protein partners. A correlation between sequence alignments could also be identified not only between pairs of proteins that physically interact but also between those that are merely functionally related (i.e., within the same protein complex). This indicates that the observed correlated evolution of interacting proteins is due to similar constraints on evolutionary rate and not coevolution.
Sensitivity and specificity of the blankenship FCE system's indicators of submaximal effort.	Single-blinded, randomized, posttest only design.
Soluble transferrin receptor as an indicator of iron deficiency in HIV-infected infants.	Iron deficiency is common in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected infants in sub-Saharan Africa. It is not known whether soluble transferrin receptor (sTfR) is a good indicator of iron deficiency in infants with HIV.
Evaluation of magnetic resonance imaging-based prostate-specific antigen density of the prostate in the diagnosis of prostate cancer.	We evaluated prostate-specific antigen (PSA) density of the prostatic volume (PSAD) estimated using transrectal ultrasonography (TRUS; TRUS-based PSAD), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI; MRI-based PSAD), and PSA density of the transition zone (TZ) volume (PSATZD) estimated using MRI (MRI-based PSATZD) in the diagnosis of prostate cancer (PCa).
Using the daily record of severity of problems as a screening instrument for premenstrual syndrome.	To assess symptom ratings on the first day of menses to identify women at high risk of clinically significant premenstrual syndrome (PMS) who should undergo further evaluation.
Role of the apolipoprotein B-apolipoprotein A-I ratio in cardiovascular risk assessment: a case-control analysis in EPIC-Norfolk.	An elevated apolipoprotein B-apolipoprotein A-I (apo B-apo A-I) ratio is a risk factor for future coronary artery disease (CAD). It is not known whether this ratio is better than traditional lipid values for risk assessment and prediction and whether it adds predictive value to the Framingham risk score.
Dementia screening questionnaire for individuals with intellectual disabilities.	Many adults with Down's syndrome develop Alzheimer's dementia relatively early in their lives, but accurate clinical diagnosis remains difficult.
Optic disc imaging in perimetrically normal eyes of glaucoma patients with unilateral field loss.	To compare the ability of optic disc and retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) imaging to discriminate perimetrically unaffected eyes of glaucoma patients from normal eyes.
Diagnostic ability of the Heidelberg retina tomograph, optical coherence tomograph, and scanning laser polarimeter in open-angle glaucoma.	To compare the ability to discriminate between healthy and glaucomatous eyes of different criteria based on parameters from 3 optical imaging devices: Heidelberg retina tomograph (HRT-II), optical coherence tomograph (Stratus OCT 3000) and scanning laser polarimeter (GDx VCC).
Body mass index as a predictor of percent fat in college athletes and nonathletes.	Body mass index (BMI) is used as a surrogate for percent fat (% fat) in classifying obesity. However, there is no established criterion for % fat and health risk, and few studies have examined the accuracy/validity of BMI as a measure of % fat. By default, BMI is used to classify athletes and young adults as obese. Consequently, it is critical to understand the accuracy of BMI in these populations. The purposes of this study were 1) to describe the relationship between BMI and % fat, and 2) to determine the accuracy of BMI as a measure of % fat in college athletes and nonathletes.
Mixture models as a method to find present and divergent genes in comparative genomic hybridization studies on bacteria.	Comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) using microarrays is performed on bacteria in order to test for genomic diversity within various bacterial species. The microarrays used for CGH are based on the genome of a fully sequenced bacterium strain, denoted reference strain. Labelled DNA fragments from a sample strain of interest and from the reference strain are hybridized to the array. Based on the obtained ratio intensities and the total intensities of the signals, each gene is classified as either present (one copy or multiple copies) or divergent (zero copies). In this paper mixture models with different number of components are tted on different combinations of variables and compared with each other. The study shows that mixture models fitted on both the ratio intensities and the total intensities including the replicates for each gene improve, compared to previously published methods, the results for several of the data sets tested. Some summaries of the data sets are proposed as a guide for the choice of model and the choice of number of components. The models are applied on data from CGH experiments with the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus and
Subjective sonographic assessment for differentiation between malignant and benign adnexal masses.	To determine the accuracy of subjective sonographic assessment in distinguishing between benign and malignant adnexal masses.
A coronary heart disease risk score based on patient-reported information.	To develop a simple, patient self-report-based coronary heart disease (CHD) risk score for adults without previously diagnosed CHD (Personal Heart Early Assessment Risk Tool [HEART] score), the Atherosclerosis Risk In Communities (ARIC) Study, a prospective cohort of subjects aged 45 to 64 years at baseline, was used to develop a measure for 10-year risk of CHD (n = 14,343). Variables evaluated for inclusion were age, history of diabetes mellitus, history of hypercholesterolemia, history of hypertension, family history of CHD, smoking, physical activity, and body mass index. The 10-year risk of CHD events was defined as myocardial infarction, fatal CHD, or cardiac procedure. The new measure was compared with the Framingham Risk Score (FRS) and European Systematic Coronary Risk Evaluation (SCORE). The Personal HEART score for men included age, diabetes, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, smoking, physical activity, and family history. In men, the area under the receiver-operator characteristic curve for predicting 10-year CHD for the Personal HEART score (0.65) was significantly different from that for the FRS (0.69, p = 0.03), but not for the European SCORE (0.62, p = 0.12). The Personal HEART score for women included age, diabetes, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, smoking, and body mass index. The area under the curve for the Personal HEART score (0.79) for women was not significantly different from that for the FRS (0.81, p = 0.42) and performed better than the European SCORE (0.69, p = 0.01). In conclusion, the Personal HEART score identifies 10-year risk for CHD based on self-report data, is similar in predictive ability to the FRS and European SCORE, and has the potential for easy self-assessment.
Diagnostic value of the biochemical composition of pericardial effusions in patients undergoing pericardiocentesis.	In contrast to pleural effusion or ascites, there are few data regarding the chemical and cell-count parameters of pericardial effusions (PEs) to aid diagnosis. In the present work, all patients who underwent pericardiocentesis during a 9-year period (1995 to 2004) at a tertiary hospital and who had available fluid laboratory results were retrospectively identified. Causes of PE were diagnosed using predetermined criteria. The results of pericardial fluid biochemical and hematologic tests were compared with blood test results and analyzed to identify cut-off points that could distinguish among the various causes or among various groups of causes. Of 173 patients who underwent pericardiocentesis in the study period, 120 had available fluid laboratory results, and these patients constituted the study population. The most common causes of PE were neoplastic, idiopathic, and effusion related to acute pericarditis (accounting for 42, 22, and 17 of 120 patients, respectively). Most fluids (118 of 120) would have been classified as exudates by adopting Light's pleural effusion criteria. Moreover, in all parameters examined, there was a considerable overlap of test results among the different pericardial disorders. Thus, no biochemical or cell-count parameter was found useful at reasonable accuracy for differentiating among the individual causes or among various groups of pericardial disorders. In conclusion, most PEs are exudates. The analysis of pericardial fluid biochemical and cell-count composition is generally not helpful for the diagnosis of most PEs.
Endoscopic ultrasound: a meta-analysis of test performance in suspected biliary obstruction.	Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) achieves high-resolution images of the bile duct and pancreas, while avoiding the risks of ERCP (endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography). It appears comparable to MRCP (magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography), although its use is less widely disseminated. We aimed to summarize EUS test performance in suspected biliary disease with meta-analysis.
Term identification methods for consumer health vocabulary development.	The development of consumer health information applications such as health education websites has motivated the research on consumer health vocabulary (CHV). Term identification is a critical task in vocabulary development. Because of the heterogeneity and ambiguity of consumer expressions, term identification for CHV is more challenging than for professional health vocabularies.
Role of procalcitonin, C-reactive protein, interleukin-6, interleukin-8 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in the diagnosis of neonatal sepsis.	Diagnosis of neonatal sepsis may be difficult because clinical presentations are often nonspecific, bacterial cultures are time-consuming and other laboratory tests lack sensitivity and specificity. In this study, we aimed to investigate the role of procalcitonin (PCT), C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in establishing the diagnosis and evaluating the prognosis of neonatal sepsis. Twenty-six neonates with blood-culture positivity and clinical sepsis, hospitalized for clinical suspicion of neonatal sepsis in neonatal intensive care units of Balcali Hospital, Cukurova University and Adana State Hospital between May 2000 and January 2001 (Group I) and 29 healthy neonates followed at the neonatal units and outpatient clinics of these hospitals (Group II) in the same period were studied. Among the septic neonates, 13 had early-onset (Group Ia) and 13 had late-onset (Group Ib) neonatal sepsis, while 14 of the healthy neonates had perinatal risk factors (Group IIa) and 15 of them had no risk factors (Group IIb). The demographic and clinical characteristics of the septic and healthy neonates were recorded, blood samples for determining serum PCT, CRP, IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-alpha were collected from the healthy and the septic neonates before starting treatment, and these investigations were repeated on the 3rd and 7th days of treatment. In this study, it was found that: (a) pre-treatment mean serum PCT, CRP, IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-alpha levels were significantly higher in the septic neonates than in the healthy ones, (b) compared with the pre-treatment values, serum PCT, IL-6 and TNF-alpha had progressively decreased on the 3rd and 7th days of the treatment in the 17 recovered patients, though they progressively increased in nine patients who died during treatment, (c) the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) for PCT, TNF-alpha, IL-6, CRP, and IL-8 were 1.00, 1.00, 0.97, 0.90 and 0.68, respectively. For the cut-off value of PCT > or = 0.34 ng/ml, the test was found to have a sensitivity of 100%, specificity of 96.5%, positive predictive value of 96.2%, negative predictive value of 100% and diagnostic efficacy of 98.3% for bacterial sepsis in neonates. For the cut-off value of TNF-alpha > or = 7.5 pg/ml, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and diagnostic efficacy were found to be 100%, 96.6%, 96.2%, 96.5% and 98.3%, respectively. It was detected that sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic efficacy values were lower for IL-6, CRP and IL-8. We conclude that PCT and TNF-alpha are the best markers in the diagnosis of neonatal sepsis, and these markers are also valuable in following the effectiveness of treatment and determining the prognosis of the disease.
Tumour M2-PK as a predictor of surgical outcome in ovarian cancer, a prospective cohort study.	Optimal cytoreduction is a major prognostic factor in ovarian cancer; several clinical, radiological and biochemical predictors have been studied. Tumour M2-PK (TU M2-PK) is over-expressed in tumour cells and can be detected in plasma samples but its role in ovarian cancer has not yet been evaluated.
Long-term prognosis associated with coronary calcification: observations from a registry of 25,253 patients.	The purpose of this study was to develop risk-adjusted multivariable models that include risk factors and coronary artery calcium (CAC) scores measured with electron-beam tomography in asymptomatic patients for the prediction of all-cause mortality.
Hepatic insufficiency and mortality in 1,059 noncirrhotic patients undergoing major hepatectomy.	To establish a reliable definition of postoperative hepatic insufficiency (PHI) in noncirrhotic patients undergoing major hepatectomy. No standard definition of PHI has been established, but one is essential for meaningful comparison of outcomes data across studies.
Detection of internal carotid artery stenosis with duplex velocity criteria using receiver operating characteristic analysis.	Duplex ultrasonography is an excellent non-invasive screening tool for carotid artery stenosis. The aim of this study was to evaluate optimal ultrasonographic criteria for determination of internal carotid artery stenosis with reference to digital subtraction angiography.
A simple predictive model of prolonged intensive care unit stay after surgery for acquired heart valve disease.	The study aim was to construct a simple model (the Fuwai risk score) to predict prolonged intensive care unit (ICU) stay after surgery to treat acquired heart valve disease.
Right ventricular myocardial isovolumic relaxation time as novel method for evaluation of pulmonary hypertension: correlation with endothelin-1 levels.	Noninvasive assessment of pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP) has several limitations. Right ventricular (RV) isovolumic relaxation time (IVRT) is sensitive to changes in PASP. Blood pool-derived RV IVRT correlates well with PASP. However, because of complex parameter derivation, the method is rarely used. Endothelin (ET)-1 levels are elevated in congestive heart failure in relation with the severity of pulmonary hypertension.
Noninvasive echocardiographic estimation of pulmonary wedge pressure in candidates for and recipients of heart transplantation.	We assessed the value of deceleration time (dt) of diastolic wave of pulmonary venous flow (PVF) (PVF_dt) as noninvasive estimation of pulmonary wedge pressure (PWP) in candidates for and recipients of heart transplantation.
Evaluation of the performance of immunological parameters as indicators for clinical progression of chronic HTLV-1 infection]	This study evaluated the performance of single and combined laboratory parameters, B-lymphocyte percentages (%LB), T/B cell ratio and %CD8+HLA-DR+/CD8+, to differentiate asymptomatic cases (AS) from HAM/TSP patients (HT) within a population of HTLV-1 seropositive cases. Percentage indices demonstrated that each parameter alone presented moderate performance, with co-negativity of 83 and 91% for %LB and T/B cell ratio, respectively, and co-positivity of 78% for %CD8+HLA-DR+/CD8+. Combined analysis (%CD8+HLA-DR+/CD8+ and T/B cell ratio) did not show any substantial performance enhancement (co-positivity = 75% and co-negativity = 74%). Likelihood ratio analysis using different value ranges for the separate parameters revealed that HTLV-1 seropositive cases with %LB<7%, T/B cell ratio>11 and %CD8+HLA-DR+/CD8+>70% would have, respectively, 11, 19 and 10 times greater chance of belonging to the HT group. Therefore, use of these phenotypic indicators as complementary laboratory methods for monitoring the clinical progression of chronic HTLV-1 infection is recommended.
Determination of a saliva cotinine cut-off to distinguish pregnant smokers from pregnant non-smokers.	Objective validation of smoking status is necessary. Earlier studies have used saliva cotinine concentrations between 14.2 and 30 ng/ml as cut-off values to distinguish pregnant smokers from non-smokers. However, these cut-offs derive from studies including men and non-pregnant women. This constitutes a problem, as recent studies have reported an accelerated metabolism in pregnant smokers. The aim of this study was to determine the optimum cut-off cotinine level distinguishing pregnant smokers from pregnant non-smokers.
Clinical utility of counting intraepithelial lymphocytes in celiac disease intestinal mucosa.	Our aims were to establish the clinical utility of assessing the intraepithelial lymphocyte (IEL) density in intestinal biopsies from a large series of individuals and to determine the best threshold discriminating celiac disease (CD) patients and controls in two populations with different pre-test prevalence.
50-grams glucose challenge test for screening of gestational diabetes mellitus in high risk pregnancy.	To evaluate the cutoff value of the 1-hr, 50-gram glucose challenge test (GCT) for screening of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), in high-risk pregnancy, and to determine the prevalence of GDM in this group.
A comparison of APACHE II and SAPS II scoring systems in predicting hospital mortality in Thai adult intensive care units.	To assess the performance of Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II) and Simplified Acute Physiology Score II (SAPS II) in Thai critically ill patients.
Activated ERK1/2 expression in glioblastoma multiforme and in peritumor tissue.	Anomalies of growth factor signaling have been reported in malignant human gliomas. The extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) play a crucial role in transducing growth factor signals to the nucleus and are involved in a wide range of biological responses, including cell proliferation, differentiation and motility. ERK1/2 is expressed and activated in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). However, no information is available in literature concerning the presence and activity of ERK1/2 in the peritumor tissue. In the present study, we evaluated by immunohistochemistry total and phosphorylated (t and p) ERK1/2 expression in 31 cases of primary GBM and in tissue surrounding the enhanced lesion at different distances up to 3.5 cm from the tumor margin. Total ERK1/2 was, as expected, uniformly expressed not only in GBM but in the areas around the tumor also, which showed higher levels of immunolabeling. ERK1/2 activation was observed in GBM as well as in peritumor tissue, with no statistical difference in the level of the enzymatic activities. In particular, in the peritumor tissue pERK1/2 was present independently of neoplastic cells not only in reactive astrocytes, but in apparently normal glial cells also. These results indicate that ERK1/2 pathway may participate in GBM growth and progression. In addition, they strongly suggest that ERK1/2 stimulation may be linked not only to tissue reactivity to tumor invasion, but also to cell motility or represent per se a sign of transformation. Finally, our findings highlight the meaning of the extension of neoplasm fingers beyond the outer margin of GBM. Patients with neoplastic cells at <10% or without neoplastic cells in peritumor areas showed a higher survival time compared with those with neoplastic elements at > or = 10%. In addition, a percentage > or = 10 of neoplastic elements in peritumor tissue was associated with an approximately 4-fold increased death risk.
The ineffectiveness of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale for diagnosis in an Omani traumatic brain injured population.	The rehabilitation of the traumatic brain injury (TBI) patient is especially challenging in non-western populations as the phenotypic indicators as well as the neurobehavioral assessments for the survivors of brain injury are limited.
Comparison of P-POSSUM and O-POSSUM in predicting mortality after oesophagogastric resections.	P-POSSUM (Physiological and Operative Severity Score for the enumeration of Mortality and morbidity) predicts mortality and morbidity in general surgical patients providing an adjunct to surgical audit. O-POSSUM was designed specifically to predict mortality and morbidity in patients undergoing oesophagogastric surgery.
Fall prediction in inpatients by bedside nurses using the St. Thomas's Risk Assessment Tool in Falling Elderly Inpatients (STRATIFY) instrument: a multicenter study.	To assess the predictive value of the St. Thomas's Risk Assessment Tool in Falling Elderly Inpatients (STRATIFY) instrument, a simple fall-risk assessment tool, when administered at a patient's hospital bedside by nurses.
Evaluation of a quantitative D-dimer latex immunoassay for acute pulmonary embolism diagnosed by computed tomographic angiography.	To determine the sensitivity and specificity of a quantitative plasma fibrin D-dimer latex immunoassay (LIA) for the diagnosis of acute pulmonary embolism.
Usefulness of cardiopulmonary exercise to predict long-term prognosis in adults with repaired tetralogy of Fallot.	Adults with tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) have increased long-term mortality. The identification of patients at greater risk for death or cardiac-related morbidity is challenging. This study was conducted to assess the prognostic value of cardiopulmonary exercise testing in adults with repaired TOF. One hundred eighteen consecutive adults with repaired TOF (mean age at repair 4.8 +/- 4.2 years) underwent cardiopulmonary exercise testing at a mean age of 24 +/- 8 years (range 16 to 59). The degree of pulmonary regurgitation, right ventricular function, and right ventricular systolic pressure were determined by transthoracic echocardiography. After the exercise tests, patients were regularly followed up for cardiac-related events. During a mean follow-up of 5.8 +/- 2.3 years (range 0.6 to 9.7), 9 patients died and 18 underwent hospitalization. Peak oxygen uptake (hazard ratio 0.974, 95% confidence interval 0.950 to 0.994), the slope of ventilation (VE) per unit of carbon dioxide production (VCO(2)) (hazard ratio 1.076, 95% confidence interval 1.038 to 1.115), and New York Heart Association functional class (hazard ratio 2.118, 95% confidence interval 1.344 to 3.542) were independent predictors of death or hospitalization. Patients with peak oxygen uptake < or =36% of predicted value and those with VE/VCO(2) slopes >39 were at greater risk for cardiac-related death (5-year mortality 48% vs 0%, p <0.0001, and 31% vs 0%, p <0.0001, respectively). In conclusion, the measurement of peak oxygen uptake and VE/VCO(2) slope in adults with repaired TOF can be prognostically important and could become a powerful tool to rationalize decisions regarding the prevention of premature sudden death and the need for reintervention.
Ki-67 proliferative index predicts clinical outcome in patients with atypical or anaplastic meningioma.	Meningiomas represent the second most common central nervous system neoplasms in adults and account for 26% of all primary brain tumors. Although most are benign, between 5% and 15% of meningiomas are atypical (grade II) whereas 1-2% are anaplastic meningiomas (grade III). Although histological grade is the most relevant prognostic factor, there are some unusual cases in which establishing a diagnosis of high-grade meningioma following 2000 World Health Organization (WHO) histological criteria is extremely difficult. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to evaluate the predictive value of Ki-67 labeling index and its contribution to current WHO classification in predicting tumor recurrence and overall survival in patients with high-grade meningiomas. A total of 28 patients (with 16 atypical meningiomas and 12 anaplastic meningiomas) were evaluated for demographic, clinical, radiological and therapeutic variables, and for Ki-67 immunohistochemistry. Median Ki-67 labeling index in the whole series was 7.0 (0.5-31.5) with no differences with respect to the histological grade (P = 0.87). In the univariate analysis, Ki-67 labeling index and postoperative Karnofsky performance status were identified as significant prognostic factors of tumor recurrence and overall survival. The multivariate analysis demonstrated that Ki-67 labeling index is the only independent predictor of both tumor recurrence and overall survival. More importantly, this predictive value was maintained in both patients with atypical and patients with anaplastic meningioma.
Hand infections resulting from underestimation of minimal injuries]	Frequently, the timely onset of adequate treatment is delayed when a hand infection is the result of minor trauma. The patients as well as the physicians are tempted to underestimate this complication. To prove that certain forms of trauma correlate with the degree of underestimation, we have prospectively studied the cases of 105 patients who required hospitalisation and surgical interventions between 2001 and 2003. We defined a cut-off point at 48 hours following trauma and differentiated between patients who appeared within this period from those who came later. Lesions at the fingertips, superficial and punctual injuries were more frequent among patients belonging to the group with the longer delay of treatment onset. Also pain was more intense and swelling of axillary lymph nodes was seen in this group more often. Patients who had been treated elsewhere before, were commonly found in this group as well. Patients who came within 48 hours following trauma required less surgical procedures. Also hospitalisation was shorter. Using a discriminant analysis, we calculated a linear equation to calculate a score, which helps to assess the individual degree of underestimation. This scoring system can help to identify patients who would benefit from early surgical treatment of the hand.
The five times sit to stand test: responsiveness to change and concurrent validity in adults undergoing vestibular rehabilitation.	The purpose of this study was to determine if patients with balance and vestibular disorders would demonstrate clinically meaningful improvement in the Five Times Sit to Stand Test (FTSST) score as a result of vestibular rehabilitation and to determine the concurrent validity of the FTSST.
Prognostic factors of pregnancy in intrauterine insemination]	The artificial insemination is the introduction of spermatozoa in the feminine genital tract without carrying out sexual contact and with the purpose of obtaining the pregnancy. The insemination intrauterine has improved its rate of success thanks to the technological advances and the best knowledge of human reproductive physiology.
Diagnostic value of serum CA242, CA 19-9, CA 15-3 and CA 125 in patients with carcinoma of the gallbladder.	Tumor markers have an increasing significance in the diagnosis and evaluation of tumor, but their role in gallbladder cancer has not been established. The present study was undertaken to determine the utility of serological markers in carcinoma of the gallbladder (CaGB).
Superstition: a matter of bias, not detectability.	Pigeons discriminated between stimulus changes dependent on their pecking and stimulus changes occurring independently of their behavior. Their performance was accurate, and when the payoffs for "hits" and "correct rejections" were varied, their response bias varied in a fashion similar to that of human observers detecting signals in a background of noise.
Impact of chronic Chlamydia pneumoniae infection on left ventricular remodeling after myocardial infarction]	Postmyocardial infarction left ventricular remodeling is modified by inflammatory processes and structural changes in the myocardium. Chlamydia pneumoniae (Chp) causes chronic myocyte infection, affects apoptosis and TNF-alpha production, and may induce cross reactivity with alpha myosin. This is the way in which this intracellular pathogen may modulate remodeling on the cellular and organ level.
Relationship between blood flow in central venous catheters and hemodialysis adequacy.	Central venous catheter dysfunction is a frequent problem and often is defined as a blood flow <300 ml/min. This prospective, cross-sectional study included 259 patients and examined the relationship between catheter blood flow and dialysis adequacy as measured by urea reduction ratio (URR), single pool urea kinetics, and online effective ionic dialysance clearance. Dialysis adequacy at blood flow rates of <300, <275, and <250 ml/min; sensitivity; specificity; and positive and negative predictive values were calculated. Mean blood flow was 352 ml/min (SD +/- 48.8). Mean blood flow <300 ml/min occurred in 10.5% of the patients, and only 26% had a URR of <65%. Maximum blood flows <300 ml/min occurred in 6.9% of patients, and only 22.2% had URR <65%. The positive predictive value of mean blood flow of <300 and <275 ml/min to predict a URR <65% was 22 and 40%, respectively. Using receiver operator characteristic curves, the area under the curve was not significantly different for blood flows of 300, 275, or 250 ml/min. This study indicates that mean blood flows <300 ml/min are not commonly associated with dialysis inadequacy. Setting a single blood flow cut point of <300 ml/min to define the need for intervention will result in a significant number of unnecessary interventions. There is a need to reexamine the definition of catheter dysfunction and expand the definition beyond blood flow rates.
Tuberculin skin test among pulmonary sarcoidosis patients with and without tuberculosis: its utility for the screening of the two conditions in tuberculosis-endemic regions.	Sarcoidosis is an increasingly important condition in developing countries, including those with a high prevalence of tuberculosis. The tuberculin skin test (TST) is one test used in distinguishing these two granulomatous conditions. It has been shown that a negative TST is highly sensitive for sarcoidosis. This retrospective study set out to assess the converse: the role of a positive test in the assessing the likelihood that a patient with sarcoidosis might also have tuberculosis.
Study of the relationship between pulse photoplethysmography amplitude decrease events and sleep apneas in children.	In this work, a method to analyse the effects of an apnea on the pulse photoplethysmography signal (PPG) is proposed. Therefore, an apnea detector based on respiratory signals has been developed and a decreases in amplitude of PPG (DAP) detector developed in a previous study was used. The apnea detector was tested using real signals. S and +PV of the detector were 95.3% and 94.4%, respectively. For each of the apneic events, we analyzed the presence of DAP in a window previous to the apnea event and another during/following the apnea. An increase of about 15% in DAP events in the window during/following the apnea with respect to the previous to apnea window is produced. These results shows an association between apneic events and DAP events, which indicates that DAP events provide useful information in sleep research and PPG signals might be useful in the diagnosis of OSAS.
Multi-channel EEG based neonatal seizure detection.	A multi-channel method for patient specific and patient independent, EEG based neonatal seizure detection is presented. Two classifier configurations are proposed and tested, along with a number of classifier models. Existing methods for neonatal seizure detection have been empirical threshold based or based on a single EEG channel. The optimum patient specific classifier for EEG based neonatal seizure detection was found to be an Early Integration configuration employing a linear discriminant classifier model. This yielded a mean classification accuracy of 74.66% for 11 neonatal records. The optimum patient independent classifier was an Early Integration configuration with a linear discriminant classifier model giving a mean accuracy of 72.81%
SVM based system for classification of microcalcifications in digital mammograms.	This paper presents a SVM based computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) system for the characterization of clustered microcalcifications in digitized mammograms. First, the region of interest (ROI) in mammogram is enhanced using morphological enhancement (MORPHEN) method. Second, pixels in potential microcalcification regions are segmented out by using edge detection and morphological operations. Third, features based on shape, texture and statistical properties are extracted from each region. Finally, these features are fed to a SVM based classifier for identifying the clusters as either benign or malignant. The SVM with RBF kernel gave A(z)=0.9803 with 97% accuracy and the SVM with polynomial kernel gave A(z)=0.9541 with 95% accuracy.
Classification of cancer stage from free-text histology reports.	This article investigates the classification of a patient's lung cancer stage based on analysis of their free-text medical reports. The system uses natural language processing to transform the report text, including identification of UMLS terms and detection of negated findings. The transformed report is then classified using statistical machine learning techniques. A support vector machine is trained for each stage category based on word occurrences in a corpus of histology reports for pathologically staged patients. New reports can be classified according to the most likely stage, allowing the collection of population stage data for analysis of outcomes. While the system could in principle be applied to stage different cancer types, the current work focuses on lung cancer due to data availability. The article presents initial experiments quantifying system performance for T and N staging on a corpus of histology reports from more than 700 lung cancer patients.
Cross approximate entropy analysis of nocturnal oximetry signals in the diagnosis of the obstructive sleep apnea syndrome.	This study is focused on the analysis of blood oxygen saturation (SaO(2)) and heart rate (HR) from nocturnal oximetry using cross approximate entropy (Cross-ApEn). We assessed its usefulness in screening obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) syndrome. We applied Cross-ApEn(m,r,N) to quantify the asynchrony between paired SaO(2) and HR records of 74 patients (44 with a positive OSA diagnosis and 30 with a negative OSA diagnosis). Cross-ApEn values were significantly lower in the OSA positive group compared with those obtained in the OSA negative group. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis showed that the best results, in terms of diagnostic accuracy, were achieved with m = 2 and r = 0.6. With these input parameters, the optimum decision threshold was found at 1.7, where we achieved 95.5% sensitivity, 73.3% specificity and 86.5% accuracy. Further analyses should be carried out with new and larger data sets to test the usefulness of our methodology prospectively.
A multi-input modeling approach to quantify hippocampal nonlinear dynamic transformations.	A multi-input modeling approach is introduced to quantify hippocampal neural dynamics. It is based on the Volterra modeling approach extended to multiple inputs. The computed Volterra kernels allow quantitative description of hippocampal transformations and define a predictive model that can produce responses to arbitrary input patterns. Electrophysiological data from several CA3 and CA1 cells in behaving rats were recorded simultaneously using an array of penetrating electrodes. This activity was used to compute kernels up to third order for single and multiple input cases. Representative sets of kernels illustrate the variability of the dynamics of the CA3-CA1 transformations. Our model's predictive accuracy was evaluated using ROC curves.
Optimizing fuzzy clinical decision support rules using genetic algorithms.	In this paper, we present a technique for optimizing a fuzzy system using a genetic algorithm that works for patient status monitoring in the operating room. The genetic algorithm adjusts rule weights, outputs, and input membership functions to maximize the area under a receiver operator curve (ROC) for final classification. Compared to pre-optimization, the optimized fuzzy inference system increased ROC area from 0.68 to 0.77, which can be translated to an increase in specificity from 74% to 82%, at a fixed sensitivity of 58%
Prediction of RNA-binding residues in protein sequences using support vector machines.	Understanding the molecular recognition between RNA and proteins is central to elucidation of many biological processes in the cell. Although structural data are available for some protein-RNA complexes, the interaction patterns are still mostly unclear. In this study, support vector machines as well as artificial neural networks have been trained to predict RNA binding residues from five sequence-derived features, including the solvent accessible surface area, BLAST-based conservation score, hydrophobicity index, side chain pK(a) value and molecular mass of an amino acid. It is found that support vector machines outperform neural networks for prediction of RNA-binding residues. The best support vector machine achieves 70.74% of prediction strength (average of sensitivity and specificity), whereas the performance measure reaches 67.79% for the neural networks. The results suggest that RNA binding residues can be predicted directly from amino acid sequence information. Online prediction of RNA-binding residues is available at http://bioinformatics.ksu.edu/bindn/
Short-term heart rate variability response to head-up tilt in young syncope patients and controls with respect to age.	This study aims at characterizing the short-term time-courses of time- and frequency-domain heart rate variability (HRV) parameters during head-up tilt test (HUTT). Data from 44 young patients with a history of syncope and 34 age-matched controls was analysed in two age-groups related to puberty (< or =13 and > or =14 years), and separately for gender, by extracting minute-by-minute progression of mean RR-interval, standard deviation of RR-intervals (SDNN) and their first difference (SDSD) as well as low-frequency (LF, 0.05-0.15 Hz) energy, high-frequency (HF, 0.15-0.4 Hz) energy and the LF/HF-ratio. Time-courses were individually normalized and averaged after synchronization to the events of tilt and tilt-back/syncope. We observed remarkable age-related differences not only with respect to response to tilting but also regarding the differentiation of patients with positive HUTT from controls with negative HUTT. ROC-analysis in three regions of interest (0-2 min after tilt, 2-5 min after tilt, 5-2 min before tilt-back) revealed generally much weaker and less persistent differences in younger subjects whereas in elders the differences were clearer and often most pronounced immediately before syncope. For both age-groups, the relative change of mean RR provided best separation, however in elders in the ROI just before syncope (sensitivity: 74%, specificity 80%) in young immediately after tilt (sens.: 71%, spec.: 74%). In elder subjects, the relative reduction of SDNN 2-5 minute after tilt achieved almost the same performance (sens.: 74%, spec. 80%) as in the ROI before syncope (sens. 78%, spec. 73%), indicating the existence of rather early precursors of syncope that might help to predict the outcome of the HUTT in subjects in or after puberty.
Ant colony optimization for biomarker identification from MALDI-TOF mass spectra.	We present a novel method that combines ant colony optimization with support vector machines (ACO-SVM) to select candidate biomarkers from MALDI-TOF serum profiles of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients and matched controls. The method identified relevant mass points that achieve high sensitivity and specificity in distinguishing HCC patients from healthy individuals. The results indicate that the MALDI-TOF technology could provide the means to discover novel biomarkers for HCC.
Significance of MPEG-7 textural features for improved mass detection in mammography.	The purpose of the study is to investigate the significance of MPEG-7 textural features for improving the detection of masses in screening mammograms. The detection scheme was originally based on morphological directional neighborhood features extracted from mammographic regions of interest (ROIs). Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC) was performed to evaluate the performance of each set of features independently and merged into a back-propagation artificial neural network (BPANN) using the leave-one-out sampling scheme (LOOSS). The study was based on a database of 668 mammographic ROIs (340 depicting cancer regions and 328 depicting normal parenchyma). Overall, the ROC area index of the BPANN using the directional morphological features was Az=0.85+/-0.01. The MPEG-7 edge histogram descriptor-based BPNN showed an ROC area index of Az=0.71+/-0.01 while homogeneous textural descriptors using 30 and 120 channels helped the BPNN achieve similar ROC area indexes of Az=0.882+/-0.02 and Az=0.877+/-0.01 respectively. After merging the MPEG-7 homogeneous textural features with the directional neighborhood features the performance of the BPANN increased providing an ROC area index of Az=0.91+/-0.01. MPEG-7 homogeneous textural descriptor significantly improved the morphology-based detection scheme.
Probabilistic framework for reliability analysis of information-theoretic CAD systems in mammography.	The purpose of this study is to develop and evaluate a probabilistic framework for reliability analysis of information-theoretic computer-assisted detection (IT-CAD) systems in mammography. The study builds upon our previous work on a feature-based reliability analysis technique tailored to traditional CAD systems developed with a supervised learning scheme. The present study proposes a probabilistic framework to facilitate application of the reliability analysis technique for knowledge-based CAD systems that are not feature-based. The study was based on an information-theoretic CAD system developed for detection of masses in screening mammograms from the Digital Database for Screening Mammography (DDSM). The experimental results reveal that the query-specific reliability estimate provided by the proposed probabilistic framework is an accurate predictor of CAD performance for the query case. It can also be successfully applied as a base for stratification of CAD predictions into clinically meaningful reliability groups (i.e., HIGH, MEDIUM, and LOW). Based on a leave-one-out sampling scheme and ROC analysis, the study demonstrated that the diagnostic performance of the IT-CAD is significantly higher for cases with HIGH reliability (A(z) = 0.92 +/- 0.03) than for those stratified as MEDIUM (A(z) = 0.84 +/- 0.02) or LOW reliability predictions (A(z) = 0.78 +/- 0.02).
Boosting linear logistic regression for single trial ERP detection in rapid serial visual presentation tasks.	In this paper, we employ the AdaBoost algorithm to the linear logistic regression model to detect encephalography (EEG) signatures, called evoked response potentials of visual recognition events in a single trial. In the experiments, a large amount of images were displayed at a very high presentation rate, named rapid serial visual presentation. The EEG was recorded using 32 electrodes during the rapid image presentation. Subjects were instructed to click the mouse when they recognize a target image. The results demonstrated that the boosting method improves the detection performance compared with the base classifier by approximately 3% as measured by area under the ROC curve.
Smooth bilinear classification of EEG.	The goal of this paper is to improve on single-trial classification of electro-encephalography (EEG) using linear methods. The paper proposes to combine the classification of the spatial distribution of activity with the classification of its temporal profile. The work is based on the idea that a current source in the brain has a reproducible temporal profile with a static spatial projection to the electrodes. This assumption reduces the parameter space of a linear classifier to a rank-one factorial space. The new model limits over-fitting due to the fewer number of parameters, and furthermore, it allows us to declare a prior belief of smoothness on the spatial and temporal profiles of the source. Our experiments show that the method is useful as a classifier with an area under the ROC curve of 0.93 having only 40 target trials available for training. Investigation of the trained classifier encourages us to belief that the method can also be useful as a tool to interpret the activity in the data at hand with respect to experimental events.
Maximum likelihood ratio tests for comparing the discriminatory ability of biomarkers subject to limit of detection.	In this article, we consider comparing the areas under correlated receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves of diagnostic biomarkers whose measurements are subject to a limit of detection (LOD), a source of measurement error from instruments' sensitivity in epidemiological studies. We propose and examine the likelihood ratio tests with operating characteristics that are easily obtained by classical maximum likelihood methodology.
Homology search with binary and trinary scoring matrices.	Protein homology search can be accelerated with the use of bit-parallel algorithms in conjunction with constraints on the values contained in the scoring matrices. Trinary scoring matrices (containing only the values -1, 0, and 1) allow for significant acceleration without significant reduction in the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) score of a Smith-Waterman search. Binary scoring matrices (containing the values 0 and 1) result in some reduction in ROC score, but result in even more acceleration. Binary scoring matrices and five-bit saturating scores can be used for fast prefilters to the Smith-Waterman algorithm.
Screening cancer patients' families with the distress thermometer (DT): a validation study.	Although family members of cancer patients are at great risk of experiencing psychological distress, clinical tools to assist with recognizing and intervening with appropriate psychosocial care are sparse. This study reports on the first validation of the distress thermometer (DT) as a screening instrument for symptoms of depression and anxiety in family members of cancer patients. The DT was administered with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) in a sample of 321 family members. Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) demonstrated that the DT has good diagnostic utility relative to the HADS (area under the curve= 0.88 relative to the HADS anxiety scale; 0.84 relative to the HADS depression scale, respectively). The ROC curves indicate that using a cut-off of 4/5 maximizes sensitivity (86.2% HADS anxiety scale; 88.2% HADS depression scale) and specificity (71.2% HADS anxiety scale; 67.6% HADS depression scale); however, the alternative lower cut-off of 3/4 increases sensitivity (94.1% for both scales) and hence reduces the risk of missing distressed family members (specificity is 62.9% for HADS anxiety scale; 59.1% for HADS depression scale). The results offer validation of the DT for screening family members of cancer patients and support its use for clinical assessment. Distress screening with DT for family members of cancer patients is a promising and efficient approach to integrating family members in the program of care and provides the first step toward meeting their unmet needs with referral for supportive services.
Quality of individually calibrated customary printers for assessment of typical dental diagnoses on glossy paper prints: a multicenter pilot study.	The objective of this study was to compare dental radiographs printed on glossy paper from calibrated low-cost printers with monitor display.
Evaluation of serum transferrin receptor for iron deficiency in women of child-bearing age.	The objective was to study the evaluation of serum transferrin receptor (sTfR) for Fe deficiency in women of child-bearing age. Primary screening was performed in 942 women ranging in child-bearing age. Serum ferritin (SF), Zn protoporphyrin (ZPP) and Hb were determined. Then the subjects were divided into four groups: normal, Fe store depletion (IDs), Fe-deficiency erythropoiesis and Fe-deficiency anaemia. sTfR was determined and sTfR/SF (sTfR/logSF and log(sTfR/SF)) was calculated. Changes of sTfR in women of different Fe status were observed. A receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used to evaluate whether sTfR had proper diagnostic efficacy for functional Fe deficiency. The levels of sTfR increased significantly along with the aggravation of Fe deficiency. Increase of STfR/SF along with the aggravation of Fe deficiency was more significant than that of sTfR. STfR had a significant negative correlation with SF and Hb, while it had a significant positive correlation with ZPP. The ROC curve showed that the diagnostic effective rate of sTfR for Fe deficiency could reach 83 %. At this point, the sensitivity was 79 % and the specificity was 63 %. Log(sTfR/SF) could be considered to have the highest effective ratio in detecting IDs, since it reached 99 %. STfR and sTfR/SF could both reflect body Fe-deficiency status specifically. They could be used as reliable indicators for evaluating Fe status and diagnosing Fe deficiency in women of child-bearing age.
Megakaryocyte potentiating factor as a tumor marker of malignant pleural mesothelioma: evaluation in comparison with mesothelin.	An early and reliable blood test is one deficiency in diagnosis of malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM). Megakaryocyte potentiating factor (MPF) and mesothelin variants (MSLN), members of the mesothelin gene family, have been studied as candidate serum markers for MPM. We developed a novel enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) system to compare the diagnostic efficacy of MPF and MSLN in MPM and control groups.
Predictors of talc pleurodesis outcome in patients with malignant pleural effusions.	Chemical pleurodesis is an accepted palliative therapy for patients with recurrent, symptomatic, malignant pleural effusions (MPE). The purpose of the study was to determine the factors that have an effect on successful pleurodesis for MPE.
Concordance between telephone survey classification and face-to-face structured clinical interview in the diagnosis of generalized anxiety disorder in Hong Kong.	Telephone surveys of estimating mental disorders have been found to generate comparable findings to large-scale community surveys but the concordance between telephone instruments and clinical interviews is rarely examined. In this study, 100 Chinese respondents who had taken part in a telephone-based population survey of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in Hong Kong were administered the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I Disorders (SCID-I) by clinical interviewers. The discriminability and predictive indicators of the telephone survey instrument were assessed using receiver operating characteristic analysis. Results showed that the telephone survey instrument identified individuals with a positive SCID diagnosis of GAD better than those without. Although its individual questions performed well in identifying the endorsement of the corresponding core SCID criterion of GAD, further studies are needed to find out the optimal combination of questions in the telephone instrument for identifying GAD in community surveys.
Role of procalcitonin in infectious gastroenteritis and inflammatory bowel disease.	We have evaluated procalcitonin (PCT) as a diagnostic marker for bacterial gastroenteritis (GE) and as a disease activity marker in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients.
Critiquing symptom validity tests for posttraumatic stress disorder: a modification of Hartman's criteria.	The differential diagnosis of malingering in psychological evaluations for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is complex and relies upon the integration of clinical knowledge and appropriate psychometric instruments. Over the years, there has been an increase in the use of validity measures, including Symptom Validity Tests (SVTs). In 2005, the National Academy of Neuropsychology published Symptom validity assessment: Practice issues and medical necessity, an official policy statement recognizing the importance of effort on test performance and recommending the utilization of specific SVTs to assess for response bias in neurocognitive and personality evaluations. As new SVTs become available, clinicians need a clear understanding of how to critique these tests and determine the strengths and limitations. This article demonstrates the fundamental principles of critiquing an SVT by applying a modified set of Hartman's [Hartman, D. E. (2002). The unexamined lie is a lie worth fibbing: Neuropsychological malingering and the Word Memory Test. Archives of Clinical Neuropsychology, 17, 709-714] criteria, originally developed for neuropsychological SVTs, to the Morel Emotional Numbing Test for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (MENT).
Utility of esophageal impedance in identifying dysmotility in patients with erosive esophagitis.	This study was intended to assess the utility of combined multiple intraluminal impedance and esophageal manometry (MII-EM) in evaluating reflux patients and in identifying those with esophageal dysmotility. Thirteen controls and 20 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) underwent combined MII-EM with a catheter containing four impedance-measuring segments and four solid-state pressure transducers. Each subject received 10 liquid and 10 viscous boluses to be swallowed. Distal esophageal contraction amplitude was significantly lower in GERD patients than in controls for viscous swallows (58.3 +/- 7.3 mmHg versus 82.4 +/- 4.1 mmHg, P = 0.005). Total bolus transit time was significantly slower in GERD patients than in controls for liquid swallows (P = 0.035). The percentages of complete bolus transit were significantly lower in GERD patients compared with controls (all P = 0.005). Half of GERD patients with normal EM still had abnormal bolus transit while three-quarters of those with abnormal EM had abnormal bolus transit. MII helps identify bolus transit abnormalities not detected by conventional manometry. Combined MII-EM is clinically useful for detecting esophageal dysmotility in patients with erosive esophagitis.
The use of prostate specific antigen (PSA) density in detecting prostate cancer in Chinese men with PSA levels of 4-10 ng/mL.	To investigate the utility of prostate specific antigen density for detecting prostate cancer in men with serum PSA levels of 4-10 ng/mL.
CT and MR imaging in staging non-small cell bronchogenic carcinoma: report of the Radiologic Diagnostic Oncology Group.	The accuracies of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and computed tomography (CT) in determining tumor classification and assessing mediastinal node metastases were compared in a prospective cooperative study of 170 patients with non-small cell bronchogenic carcinoma. The sensitivity of CT in distinguishing T3-T4 tumors from T0-T2 tumors was 63%; specificity was 84%. These values for MR imaging were not significantly different (56% and 80%). With receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, no difference existed between the accuracies of CT and MR imaging in diagnosis of bronchial involvement or chest wall invasion, but MR imaging was significantly more accurate than CT (P = .047) in diagnosis of mediastinal invasion. Lymph node sampling was performed in 155 patients (642 node stations). Cancerous nodes were found in 14% of stations in 21% of patients. There was no significant difference between the accuracies of CT and MR imaging in detecting mediastinal node metastases (N2 or N3); the sensitivities were 52% and 48%, respectively, and specificities were 69% and 64%. ROC analysis also showed no difference between CT and MR imaging.
Digital radiography: optimization of chest radiographs using a modified exposure control]	Phototiming over the lung fields frequently compromises the signal-to-noise ratio available in the mediastinal and diaphragmatic regions of the chest. A moderate dose increase would be justified if a significant improvement in diagnostic performance could be achieved. We compared the impact of mediastinal phototiming (150 kVp, 150 cm FFD, 1.0 mm focus, 12:1 grid [higher kVp chosen to minimize dose increase]) to standard lungfield phototiming (125 kVp, 150 cm FFD, 1.0 mm focus, 12:1 grid) on the detectability of simulated pulmonary nodules (wax, 0.5-2.5 cm in diameter) superimposed on human volunteers in storage phosphor radiographs (1744 x 2144 pixels, 10 bit). ROC analysis of 1920 observations by 8 readers showed a significantly higher (p less than 0.03) detectability of simulated pulmonary nodules with mediastinal phototiming (ROC area = 0.89) than standard lungfield phototiming (ROC area = 0.84).
Screening for narrow angles in the singapore population: evaluation of new noncontact screening methods.	To assess the screening effectiveness of 3 new noncontact devices, the scanning peripheral anterior chamber depth analyzer (SPAC) (Takagi, Nagano, Japan), which measures peripheral anterior chamber depth (ACD); IOLMaster (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Jena, Germany), which measures central ACD; and Visante anterior segment optical coherence tomography (AS-OCT) (Visante, Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA), which images the angles, and to compare these instruments with gonioscopy in identifying people with narrow angles (NAs).
Procalcitonin and C-reactive protein as markers of bacterial infection in critically ill children at onset of systemic inflammatory response syndrome.	To compare the accuracy of procalcitonin and C-reactive protein as diagnostic markers of bacterial infection in critically ill children at the onset of systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS).
Prediction of functional recovery after revascularization using quantitative gated myocardial perfusion SPECT: a multi-center cohort study in Japan.	Prediction of left ventricular functional recovery is important after myocardial infarction. The impact of quantitative perfusion and motion analyses with gated single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) on predictive ability has not been clearly defined in multi-center studies.
Simplified age-weight mortality risk classification for very low birth weight infants in low-resource settings.	To identify a valid neonatal mortality risk prediction score feasible for use in developing countries.
Model for the end-stage liver disease and death prediction in a cohort of Brazilian patients on the waiting list for liver transplantation.	To examine the performance of the model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) score to predict mortality three and six months after enlistment of patients with chronic diseases for their first liver transplantation (LT) and to compare the performances of the Child-Turcotte-Pugh (CTP) and the Erasmus Model for End-stage Resistant-to-therapy All etiology Liver Disease (EMERALD) scores with the MELD to predict mortality.
Assessment of dural arteriovenous fistulas of the cavernous sinuses on 3D dynamic MR angiography.	Flow voids within the cavernous sinuses and/or certain venous drainage on spin-echo MR imaging and time-of-flight (TOF) flow enhancement on MR angiography (MRA) have indicated high-velocity shunt flow and have been used for screening patients with dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) of the cavernous sinuses. In this investigation, the capabilities of 3D dynamic MRA as a flow-independent approach and those of conventional MR imaging techniques were compared with selective angiography for the diagnosis of DAVFs of the cavernous sinuses.
Expression analysis and clinical utility of L-Dopa decarboxylase (DDC) in prostate cancer.	L-Dopa decarboxylase (DDC) is a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzyme that was found to be involved in many malignancies. The aim of this study was to investigate the mRNA expression levels of DDC in prostate tissues and to evaluate its clinical utility in prostate cancer (CaP).
Bivariate random effects meta-analysis of ROC curves.	Meta-analysis of receiver operating characteristic (ROC)-curve data is often done with fixed-effects models, which suffer many shortcomings. Some random-effects models have been proposed to execute a meta-analysis of ROC-curve data, but these models are not often used in practice. Straightforward modeling techniques for multivariate random-effects meta-analysis of ROC-curve data are needed. The 1st aim of this article is to present a practical method that addresses the drawbacks of the fixed-effects summary ROC (SROC) method of Littenberg and Moses. Sensitivities and specificities are analyzed simultaneously using a bivariate random-effects model. The 2nd aim is to show that other SROC curves can also be derived from the bivariate model through different characterizations of the estimated bivariate normal distribution. Thereby the authors show that the bivariate random-effects approach not only extends the SROC approach but also provides a unifying framework for other approaches. The authors bring the statistical meta-analysis of ROC-curve data back into a framework of relatively standard multivariate meta-analysis with random effects. The analyses were carried out using the software package SAS (Proc NLMIXED).
Procalcitonin for the diagnosis of early-onset neonatal sepsis: a multilevel probabilistic approach.	To compare the accuracy of procalcitonin (PCT) in early-onset neonatal sepsis (EOS) using standard cut-off values and a multilevel probabilistic approach.
Semi-parametric maximum likelihood estimates for ROC curves of continuous-scale tests.	In this paper, we propose a new semi-parametric maximum likelihood (ML) estimate of a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve that satisfies the property of invariance of the ROC curve and is easy to compute. We show that our new estimator is sqrt[n]-consistent and has an asymptotically normal distribution. Our extensive simulation studies show that the proposed method is efficient and robust. Finally, we illustrate the application of the proposed estimator in a real data set.
Dermoscopy compared with naked eye examination for the diagnosis of primary melanoma: a meta-analysis of studies performed in a clinical setting.	Dermoscopy is a noninvasive technique that enables the clinician to perform direct microscopic examination of diagnostic features, not seen by the naked eye, in pigmented skin lesions. Diagnostic accuracy of dermoscopy has previously been assessed in meta-analyses including studies performed in experimental and clinical settings.
Value of serum anti-p53 antibodies as a prognostic factor in Egyptian patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.	p53 antigen is an oncoprotective antigen and when damaged, leads to production of anti-p53 and also predisposes to various cancers, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Serum anti-p53 has been proven to have a prognostic value in patients with HCC. The objective of this study was to determine the prevalence and prognostic utility of serum anti-p53 in Egyptian patients with HCC.
How much do GOLD stages reflect CT abnormalities in COPD patients?	Severity of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) can be graded using the classification released in the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) report. Such classification is essentially based on spirometry and does not recognise the role of other measures. The aim of this study was to assess whether the GOLD stages correlate with the extent of pulmonary emphysema and other ancillary computed tomography CT features in a population of smokers with stable COPD.
Nonparametric statistical inference method for partial areas under receiver operating characteristic curves, with application to genomic studies.	Recently ROC50 index-the area under the lower portion of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve up to the first 50 false positives-has been increasingly widely used in genomic research. Unfortunately, statistical inferences on the ROC50 index are not commonly drawn due to a lack of handy statistical inference methods and/or software tools. In this paper, we reviewed developments in statistical methods for the partial areas under ROC curves and using nonparametric methods we derived a simple and direct variance calculation formula for the partial areas, different from existing methods in the literature. We have also verified our method through simulation studies and compared our method with existing bi-normal approaches. We have shown that the partial area has an asymptotic normal distribution using trimmed U-statistics theory. On the basis of this asymptotic normality, we have given formulas for the confidence interval and the test statistic and we reported on their application to a genomic study of sample size approximately 10,000.
Risk factors for acute rejection in renal transplant recipients experiencing delayed graft function.	Acute rejection (AR) superimposed upon delayed graft function (DGF) following renal transplantation worsens graft outcomes. However, risk factors for AR in patients displaying DGF remain unclear. In this study, 71 patients displaying DGF >/= 5 d were investigated. All received cyclosporine, adjunctive azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), and corticosteroids, with 43 receiving anti-CD25 monoclonal antibody induction. AR episodes were seen in 20 of 71 (28%) patients. Higher C2 levels at days 3 and 5 and the use of MMF were associated with a reduced incidence of AR, with increased HLA-DR mismatch associated with an increased risk for AR. C2 levels at days 3 and 5 below 885 and 1096 ng/mL, respectively, showed best discriminatory values for AR. C2 levels showed no correlation with DGF duration. This study suggests that optimizing immunosuppression in patients with DGF (by ensuring adequate calcineurin inhibitor exposure and the use of potent adjunctive immunosuppression) may reduce the incidence of AR without prolonging the duration of dialysis requirement.
Classification of carotid stenosis by millimeter CT angiography measures: effects of prevalence and gender.	Previous studies quantifying moderate and severe carotid stenosis by direct millimeter measures on CT angiography (CTA) did not consider how prevalence and gender may influence classification cutoff values.
Economic evaluation of the decisions of the Israeli Public Committee for updating the National List of Health Services in 2006/2007.	The Public Committee (PC), which decides on the inclusion and ranking of new technologies in the Israeli List of Health Services facing a given budget, does not explicitly consider the results of economic evaluations of the technologies discussed. The present article includes an ex post economic examination of the PC's 2006/2007 decisions.
Likelihood ratio methodology to identify predictors of treatment outcome in temporomandibular joint arthralgia patients.	The purpose of this prospective, cohort study of patients with temporomandibular joint (TMJ) pain was to develop rules to predict treatment outcome related to occlusal stabilization splints.
Apolipoprotein B and insulin resistance are good markers of carotid atherosclerosis in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.	It is widely known that low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) is an established risk factor for atherosclerosis. However, recent studies reported that serum levels of apolipoprotein B (Apo B) and Apo B to apolipoprotein A-1 (Apo A-1) ratio were better predictors of atherosclerotic vascular disease compared with LDL-C. In this study, we investigated that Apo B concentrations and insulin resistance (HOMA-R) can be good markers of carotid atherosclerosis in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Association between hypermutator phenotype, clinical variables, mucoid phenotype, and antimicrobial resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	The presence of hypermutator Pseudomonas aeruginosa was associated with poorer lung function in patients at the Adult West Midlands CF Unit. Mucoid isolates were more likely to be hypermutators. The presence of resistant mutant subpopulations was associated with hypermutator phenotype but was not good enough to be used as a test for this phenotype.
Non-sustained ventricular tachycardia as a predictor of sudden cardiac death in patients with left ventricular dysfunction: a meta-analysis.	Identifying patients at risk of sudden cardiac death (SCD) remains a challenge.
A comparison of 99mTc-exametazime and 123I-FP-CIT SPECT imaging in the differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies.	The aim of this study is to investigate the diagnostic value of perfusion 99mTc-exametazime single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) in comparison with dopaminergic 123I-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)-n-(3-fluoropropyl) nortropane (FP-CIT) SPECT imaging.
Quantification of DNA in plasma by an automated real-time PCR assay (cytomegalovirus PCR kit) for surveillance of active cytomegalovirus infection and guidance of preemptive therapy for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients.	The performance of a plasma real-time PCR (cytomegalovirus [CMV] PCR kit; Abbott Diagnostics) was compared with that of the antigenemia assay for the surveillance of active CMV infection in 42 allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (Allo-SCT) recipients. A total of 1,156 samples were analyzed by the two assays. Concordance between the two assays was 82.2%. Plasma DNA levels correlated with the number of pp65-positive cells, particularly prior to the initiation of preemptive therapy. Fifty-seven episodes of active CMV infection were detected in 37 patients: 18 were defined solely by the PCR assay and four were defined on the basis of the antigenemia assay. Either a cutoff of 288 CMV DNA copies/ml or a 2.42-log(10) increase of DNAemia levels between two consecutive PCR positive samples was an optimal value to discriminate between patients requiring preemptive therapy and those not requiring therapy on the basis of the antigenemia results. The real-time PCR assay allowed an earlier diagnosis of active CMV infection and was a more reliable marker of successful clearance of CMV from the blood. Analysis of the kinetics of DNAemia levels at a median of 7 days posttreatment allowed the prediction of the response to CMV therapy. Two patients developed CMV colitis. The PCR assay tested positive both before the onset of symptoms and during the disease period. The plasma real-time PCR from Abbott is more suitable than the antigenemia assay for monitoring active CMV infection in Allo-SCT recipients and may be used for guiding preemptive therapy in this clinical setting.
Meta-analysis of diagnostic studies: a comparison of random intercept, normal-normal, and binomial-normal bivariate summary ROC approaches.	Using data from a published meta-analysis of magnetic resonance imaging of the menisci and cruciate ligaments, the authors varied the overall sensitivity and specificity, the between-studies variance, the within-study sample size, and the number of studies to evaluate the performances of the 3 methods in a simulation study. The parameters to be compared are the associated intercept, slope, and residual variance, using bias, mean squared error, and coverage probabilities.
Overt foot movement detection in one single Laplacian EEG derivation.	In this work one single Laplacian derivation and a full description of band power values in a broad frequency band are used to detect brisk foot movement execution in the ongoing EEG. Two support vector machines (SVM) are trained to detect the event-related desynchronization (ERD) during motor execution and the following beta rebound (event-related synchronization, ERS) independently. Their performance is measured through the simulation of an asynchronous brain switch. ERS (true positive rate=0.74+/-0.21) after motor execution is shown to be more stable than ERD (true positive rate=0.21+/-0.12). A novel combination of ERD and post-movement ERS is introduced. The SVM outputs are combined with a product rule to merge ERD and ERS detection. For this novel approach the average information transfer rate obtained was 11.19+/-3.61bits/min.
Plasma nuclear DNA and mitochondrial DNA as prognostic markers in corrosive injury patients.	Ingestion of a corrosive substance produces an injury to the gastrointestinal tract and it is often difficult to evaluate the severity and prognosis of this injury. Increased concentrations of plasma nuclear DNA and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) have been found to be associated with the area of corrosion. This study examined the level of plasma DNA as it relates to the severity of corrosive injury.
Xanthine oxidase activity in patients with sepsis.	Determine the relation of xanthine oxidase (XO) activity and the outcome of septic patients and its relation to oxidative damage and clinical parameters of sepsis severity.
Sex offender management using the polygraph: a critical review.	Reducing recidivism is a central goal in the treatment of sex offenders. In Europe, there is an increased interest in using the polygraph ("lie detector") as a tool in the treatment and risk assessment of convicted sex offenders. This interest originated from optimistic reports by American clinicians who argued that polygraph testing in the treatment of sex offenders is akin to urine analysis in the treatment of drug addiction. In this article, we critically examine the validity and utility of post-conviction sex offender polygraph testing. Our review shows that the available evidence for the claims about the clinical potential of polygraph tests is weak, if not absent. We conclude that portraying post-conviction polygraph testing as analogous to urine analysis is inaccurate, misleading, and ultimately, risky.
PCA3 score before radical prostatectomy predicts extracapsular extension and tumor volume.	PCA3 is a prostate specific, nonprotein coding RNA that is over expressed in prostate cancer. Recent studies showed the diagnostic potential of a urine based PCA3 for predicting biopsy outcome. We assessed the relationship between urine PCA3 and pathological features in whole mount radical prostatectomy specimens.
The effects of bladder over distention on voiding function in kindergarteners.	We report the effects of bladder over distention on pediatric voiding function.
Agreement between clinical estimation and a new quantitative analysis by Photoshop software in fundus and angiographic image variables.	To evaluate the validity of a new method for the quantitative analysis of fundus or angiographic images using Photoshop 7.0 (Adobe, USA) software by comparing with clinical evaluation.
Comparison of cardiovascular magnetic resonance of late gadolinium enhancement and diastolic wall thickness to predict recovery of left ventricular function after coronary artery bypass surgery.	The objective was to compare the value of late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) and end-diastolic wall thickness (EDWT) assessed by cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) in predicting recovery of left ventricular function after coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG).
Differentiating alternative splice variant patterns of human telomerase reverse transcriptase in thyroid neoplasms.	Although fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy of thyroid nodules is very sensitive in detecting thyroid malignancy, it remains ambiguous in 20-30% of cases. Current biomarkers for thyroid cancer lack either the sensitivity or specificity to substantially address this clinical problem. The aim of this study was to investigate the gene expression patterns of human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) alternative splice variants in benign and malignant thyroid tumors in an attempt to find a more reliable biomarker in the differential diagnosis of thyroid nodules.
Quantitative analysis of diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging of the pancreas: usefulness in characterizing solid pancreatic masses.	To evaluate whether measurement of apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and pure diffusion coefficient (D) can help to characterize solid pancreatic masses.
Three-dimensional fast spoiled gradient-echo dual echo (3D-FSPGR-DE) with water reconstruction: preliminary experience with a novel pulse sequence for gadolinium-enhanced abdominal MR imaging.	To compare three-dimensional fast spoiled gradient-echo dual-echo (3D-FSPGR-DE) with water reconstruction to conventional 3D-FSPGR for gadolinium-enhanced abdominal imaging.
Diffusion-weighted MR imaging for the evaluation of seminal vesicle invasion in prostate cancer: initial results.	To evaluate the accuracy of T2-weighted (T2WI) with diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) as compared with T2WI alone for predicting seminal vesicle invasion (SVI) of prostate cancer.
Enhancing the diagnostic performance of troponins in the acute care setting.	Current guidelines define cardiac troponin I (TnI) as an indicator of necrosis when the concentration exceeds the 99% upper limit of a healthy reference population, a reference value near the assay's lowest detectable level. We assessed the utility of a modified TnI cutoff point derived from a population at low risk for coronary artery disease (CAD) and evaluated its utility in determining acute myocardial infarction (MI).
Responsiveness of a patient specific outcome measure compared with the Oswestry Disability Index v2.1 and Roland and Morris Disability Questionnaire for patients with subacute and chronic low back pain.	A prospective cohort.
A formula for the stratified selection of patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in the emergency setting: a retrospective pilot study.	Amiodarone is a commonly used medication in the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) of recent onset.
Prognostic and predictive factors in colorectal cancer.	Prognostication of newly diagnosed colorectal cancer (CRC) predominantly relies on stage as defined by the UICC-TNM and American Joint Committee on Cancer classifications. Tumour extent, lymph node status, tumour grade and the assessment of lymphatic and venous invasion are still the most important morphological prognostic factors. Evidence suggests that tumour budding and tumour border configuration are important, additional histological parameters but are not regarded as essential in prognosis. Although several molecular features, such as LOH18q and TP53 mutation analysis, have shown promising results in terms of their prognostic value, the American Society of Clinical Oncology Tumor Markers Expert Panel does not currently recommend their use in routine practice. cDNA-microarray, PCR and fluorescence in situ hybridisation are now frequently used to identity potential prognostic indicators in CRC, but the applicability of these methods in routine use is likely to have limited impact. Reliable prognostic markers identified by immunohistochemical protein profiling have yet to be established. Randomisation of data sets, assessment of interobserver variability for protein markers and scoring systems, as well as the use of receiver operating characteristic curve analysis in combination with multimarker-phenotype analysis of several different markers may be an effective tactical approach to increase the value of immunohistochemical findings. This article reviews the well established and additional prognostic factors in CRC and explores the contribution of molecular studies to the prognostication of patients with this disease. Additionally, an approach to improve the prognostic value of immunohistochemical protein markers is proposed.
Comparison of ultrasound, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging in detection of acute wooden foreign bodies in the canine manus.	We evaluated the diagnostic sensitivity of ultrasound, nonenhanced computed tomography (CT) and nonenhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in detecting wooden foreign bodies in the canine manus. Identical wooden splinters were manually inserted into 30 cadaver canine manus, and the limbs were evaluated using ultrasound, CT, and MR imaging by independent observers. All sites were rated as positive or negative for the presence of a foreign body, and observer certainty was scored on a 1-10 scale. Using receiver operating characteristic analysis, CT was the most accurate modality for detection of wooden foreign bodies overall and within each of the three individual regions, followed by ultrasound and MR imaging, respectively. Ultrasound evaluations were most limited in the metacarpal pad, where distal acoustic shadowing from the pad surface hindered evaluation of the tissues in some specimens.
Prognostic performance of quantitative PET tools for stratification of patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy undergoing myocardial viability assessment.	This study was performed to determine the prognostic performance of quantitative PET tools in the stratification of patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy undergoing myocardial viability assessment.
DNA integrity in plasma and serum of patients with malignant and benign diseases.	This study aimed to test the diagnostic utility of the DNA integrity index for detection of cancer. Matched serum and plasma samples of 42 patients with various forms of cancer and 17 patients with corresponding benign diseases were analyzed. DNA was isolated from 1 mL serum and plasma using the MagNA Pure LC system. Cell-free DNA was quantified by real-time PCR using the reference gene of the LightCycler t(14;18) kit. Subsequently, the DNA integrity index was calculated as the ratio in relative abundance of 347-bp versus 137-bp PCR products. We found that DNA concentrations were not different in plasma (median: 4.5 ng/mL) and serum (67.1 ng/mL) of patients with benign diseases when compared with values in plasma (5.1 ng/mL) and serum (65.4 ng/mL) of cancer patients. Similarly, the DNA integrity index in plasma (0.38), and serum of patients with benign diseases (0.29) was comparable to values in plasma (0.33) and serum (0.37) of cancer patients. Diagnostic sensitivity of DNA (AUC 0.53) and DNA integrity (AUC 0.45) was poor in plasma, and was increased only slightly by the combination of both (AUC 0.57). In serum, sensitivity of DNA (AUC 0.52) and DNA integrity (AUC 0.64) was higher and was further improved by the combination of both (AUC 0.72) reaching a sensitivity of 30% at 100% specificity. In conclusion, we could not confirm a high diagnostic utility of the DNA integrity index. However, a combination with other markers such as DNA may enhance sensitivity for cancer detection.
Ankle MRI for anterolateral soft tissue impingement: increased accuracy with the use of contrast-enhanced fat-suppressed 3D-FSPGR MRI.	To validate the use of contrast-enhanced (CE) fat-suppressed three-dimensional (3D) fast gradient-recalled acquisition in the steady state with radiofrequency spoiling (FSPGR) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for the diagnosis of anterolateral soft tissue impingement of the ankle, as compared to the use of routine ankle MRI.
A meta-analysis of the accuracy of prostate cancer studies which use magnetic resonance spectroscopy as a diagnostic tool.	We aimed to do a meta-analysis of the existing literature to assess the accuracy of prostate cancer studies which use magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) as a diagnostic tool.
Time to reconsider the clinical value of immunoglobulin G4 to foods?	The usefulness of serum antibodies to common food antigens (immunoglobulin G4; IgG4) assay in management of patients suffering from food intolerance was assessed.
Evaluation of a point-of-care transcutaneous bilirubinometer in Chinese neonates at an accident and emergency department.	To evaluate the use of a point-of-care transcutaneous bilirubinometer, JM-103 Minolta, for estimation of the serum bilirubin level in the management of neonatal jaundice in term or near-term Chinese neonates.
Electroencephalogram variability in dementia with lewy bodies, Alzheimer's disease and controls.	Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is probably still underdiagnosed in the clinical setting. Previous studies have suggested a relationship between fluctuations in attention and electroencephalogram (EEG) measures. Since fluctuation in attention is a core symptom of DLB, we sought to further explore whether EEG measures could help differentiate DLB from Alzheimer's disease (AD) and healthy controls.
Results from applying the monaural compressed speech test in Spanish at 75% and 100% in cases of stuttering and controls]	To evaluate the results obtained from applying the monaural compressed speech test in Spanish at 75% and 100% in cases of stutterers and controls.
Health risk appraisal models for mass screening of esophageal cancer in Japanese men.	Because early squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the esophagus is detectable by endoscopic esophageal iodine staining with high accuracy and is easily treated by endoscopic mucosectomy, it is important to develop efficient methods for screening candidates for the endoscopic examination. Inactive aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 (ALDH2) is a very strong risk factor for esophageal SCC in alcohol drinkers and thus may be suitable as a screening tool.
The performance of human papillomavirus high-risk DNA testing in the screening and diagnostic settings.	We sought to evaluate the performance of the human papillomavirus high-risk DNA test in patients 30 years and older.
Multianalyte profiling of serum antigens and autoimmune and infectious disease molecules to identify biomarkers dysregulated in epithelial ovarian cancer.	Ovarian cancer is the deadliest gynecologic cancer in the United States. When detected early, the 5-year survival rate is 92%, although most cases remain undetected until the late stages where 5-year survival rates are 30%. Serum biomarkers may hold promise. Although many markers have been proposed and multivariate diagnostic models were built to fit the data on small, disparate sample sets, there has been no systematic evaluation of these markers on a single, large, well-defined sample set. To address this, we evaluated the dysregulation of 204 molecules in a sample set consisting of serum from 294 patients, collected from multiple collection sites, under a well-defined Gynecologic Oncology Group protocol. The population, weighted with early-stage cancers to assess biomarker value for early detection, contained all stages of ovarian cancer and common benign gynecologic conditions. The panel of serum molecules was assayed using rigorously qualified, high-throughput, multiplexed immunoassays and evaluated for their independent ovarian cancer diagnostic potential. Seventy-seven biomarkers were dysregulated in the ovarian cancer samples, although cancer antigen 125, C-reactive protein, epidermal growth factor receptor, interleukin 10, interleukin 8, connective tissue growth factor, haptoglobin, and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 stood out as the most informative. When analyzed by cancer subtype and stage, there were differences in the relative value of biomarkers. In this study, using a large sample cohort, we show that some of the reported ovarian cancer biomarkers are more robust than others, and we identify additional informative candidates. These findings may guide the development of multivariate diagnostic models, which should be tested on additional, prospectively collected samples.
Serial evaluation of the MODS, SOFA and LOD scores to predict ICU mortality in mixed critically ill patients.	To perform a serial assessment and compare ability in predicting the intensive care unit (ICU) mortality of the multiple organ dysfunction score (MODS), sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) and logistic organ dysfunction (LOD) score.
Serum interleukin 6 (IL-6) and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels in colorectal adenoma and cancer patients.	Colorectal cancer is one of the most common cancers of the gastrointestinal tract and the fourth cause of cancer death in the world. It has been shown that local chronic inflammation may lead to colorectal carcinogenesis via adenomatous polyps. Interleukin-6 and C-reactive protein are biomarkers of inflammation and indicators of the immune response to tumors.
The Utah Early Neuropathy Scale: a sensitive clinical scale for early sensory predominant neuropathy.	Early neuropathy is often sensory predominant and prominently involves small-diameter nerve fibers. Established neuropathy examination scales such as the Michigan Diabetic Neuropathy Scale (MDNS) and the Neuropathy Impairment Score-Lower Leg (NIS-LL) focus primarily on large-fiber sensory and motor function. Here, we validate the Utah Early Neuropathy Scale (UENS), a physical examination scale specific to early sensory predominant polyneuropathy. Compared with other scales, the UENS emphasizes severity and spatial distribution of pin (sharp) sensation loss in the foot and leg and focuses less on motor weakness. UENS, MDNS, and NIS-LL were compared in 215 diabetic or prediabetic subjects, with (129) or without neuropathy (86), and repeated in 114 neuropathy subjects after 1 year of follow-up. Neuropathy severity was also evaluated with nerve conduction studies, quantitative sensory testing, quantitative sudomotor axonal reflex testing, and intraepidermal nerve fiber density determination. The UENS had a high degree of interrater reliability (interclass correlation of 94%). UENS correlated significantly to MDNS and NIS-LL (p < 0.01), and more significantly than MDNS or NIS-LL to confirmatory tests. In this cohort, UENS had a superior profile to receiver operating characteristic analysis across a range of scores, with a sensitivity (92%) higher than MDNS (67%) or NIS-LL (81%), without sacrificing specificity. UENS more closely correlated with change in ancillary and small-fiber neuropathy measures over 1 year follow-up than did MDNS or NIS-LL. UENS is a sensitive and reproducible clinical measure of sensory and small-fiber nerve injury and may be useful in trials of early neuropathy.
Predictive value of coronary calcifications for future cardiac events in asymptomatic patients with diabetes mellitus: a prospective study in 716 patients over 8 years.	To establish an efficient prophylaxis of coronary artery disease reliable risk stratification is crucial, especially in the high risk population of patients suffering from diabetes mellitus. This prospective study determined the predictive value of coronary calcifications for future cardiovascular events in asymptomatic patients with diabetes mellitus.
Glial fibrillary acidic protein is highly correlated with brain injury.	Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is an intermediate filament protein found in the cytoskeleton of astroglia. Recent work has indicated that GFAP may serve as a serum marker of traumatic brain injury (TBI) that is released after central nervous system cell damage.
Heart-rate complexity for prediction of prehospital lifesaving interventions in trauma patients.	Traditional vital signs often fail to identify critically injured patients soon enough to permit timely intervention. To improve our ability to forecast the need for prehospital lifesaving interventions (LSIs), we applied heart-rate complexity (HRC) analysis to the electrocardiogram (ECG) of patients en route to trauma centers.
Validation of a hepatitis C screening tool in primary care.	Although hepatitis C virus (HCV) has an estimated national prevalence of 1.8%, testing rates are lower than those recommended by guidelines, particularly in primary care. A critical step is the ability to identify patients at increased risk who should be screened. We sought to prospectively derive and validate a clinical predication tool to assist primary care providers in identifying patients who should be tested for HCV antibodies.
Appraising the pathophysiologic impact of coronary collaterals as measured by fractional flow reserve on symptoms and signs of myocardial ischemia.	The purpose of coronary revascularization in stable patients is anginal relief, yet there is no linear relationship between stenosis severity and clinical significance. A major factor in this complex lesion-myocardium interaction is collateral flow. We aimed to define which collateral flow cut-offs separate asymptomatic from symptomatic patients during coronary occlusion.
Clinical application of body diffusion weighted MR imaging in the diagnosis and preoperative N staging of cervical cancer.	To evaluate the clinical impact of body diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) on the diagnosis and preoperative N staging of cervical cancer.
Application of whole body diffusion weighted MR imaging for diagnosis and staging of malignant lymphoma.	To evaluate the clinical impact of whole body diffusion weighted imaging (WB-DWI) on diagnosis and staging of malignant lymphoma.
Experimental study of inflammatory and metastatic lymph nodes with diffusion weighted imaging on animal model: comparison with conventional methods.	To investigate the feasibility of magnetic resonance (MR) diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) in discriminating inflammatory from VX2 carcinoma metastatic lymph nodes in rabbit model.
Feasibility of diagnosing and staging liver fibrosis with diffusion weighted imaging.	To assess the clinical feasibility of diagnosing and staging liver fibrosis by apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC).
Germline genetic variations in drug action pathways predict clinical outcomes in advanced lung cancer treated with platinum-based chemotherapy.	Genetic polymorphisms contribute to interindividual variation in drug response. However, a single polymorphism is likely to exhibit a modest effect. Therefore, we applied a pathway-based approach to evaluate the cumulative effect of multiple polymorphisms on clinical outcome of patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Correlation of a quantitative videocapillaroscopic score with the development of digital skin ulcers in scleroderma patients]	Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is an autoimmune disease characterized by fibrosis of the skin and visceral organs. The microangiopathy is early detectable in the course of the disease by nailfold videocapillaroscopy (NVC), a non-invasive technique with a high diagnostic value.
The evaluation of physiologic decannulation readiness according to upper airway resistance measurement.	To measure the upper-airway resistance in patients with tracheostomies and determine the value representing decannulation readiness.
Myocardial performance index is a predictor of outcome after abdominal aortic aneurysm repair.	Perioperative measurement of the myocardial performance index (MPI) with transesophageal echocardiography in patients undergoing elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repair and its association with outcome.
NT-proBNP levels in the evaluation of right ventricular dysfunction in patients with coronary artery disease and abnormal left ventricular wall motion: a magnetic resonance imaging study.	Data available on the correlation of N-terminal probrain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) levels and right ventricular (RV) function in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) are limited.
Urine neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin and interleukin-18 predict acute kidney injury after cardiac surgery.	About 30-50% patients develop acute kidney injury (AKI) after cardiac surgery, which is still diagnosed by serum creatinine on clinic. However, the increase of serum creatinine is insensitive and delayed. The aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) and interleukin-18 (IL-18) are early biomarkers for AKI in patients after cardiac surgery.
Albumin excretion in acute myocardial infarction: a guide for long-term prognosis.	Albumin excretion rate has been found to be associated with increased risk of mortality in several clinical settings. We assessed the relationship between urinary albumin and 7-year mortality in a cohort of patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
Ischemia-modified albumin levels in cerebrovascular accidents.	Previous studies have demonstrated that ischemia-modified albumin (IMA) is a useful marker for the diagnosis of ischemic events. It was also recently demonstrated that IMA levels increase in the acute phase of cerebrovascular diseases. Yet the data regarding IMA levels in various types of cerebrovascular events are insufficient. The aim of this study was to evaluate IMA levels in various types of cerebrovascular events such as ischemic stroke, subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), and intracranial hemorrhage.
The usefulness of bioelectrical impedance analysis in differentiating dyspnea due to decompensated heart failure.	Acute dyspnea poses a diagnostic challenge for physicians, and the current methods in differentiating cardiac from non-cardiac causes have been limited to date. Recently, the brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) rapid test has been validated in the emergency room. Nevertheless, the early accumulation of fluid in the interstitial space in the body and in the lungs, which characterizes patients with ADHF, is well estimated by BIA. We investigate whether bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) can serve as a noninvasive diagnostic tool in the differential diagnosis of acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) in the emergency department (ED).
Toward a complete decision model of item and source recognition.	In a recognition memory test, subjects may be asked to decide whether a test item is old or new (item recognition) or to decide among alternative sources from which it might have been drawn for study (source recognition). Confidence-rating-based receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves for these superficially similar tasks are quite different, leading to the inference of correspondingly different decision processes. A complete account of source and item recognition will require a single model that can be fit to the entire data set. We postulated a detection-theoretic decision space whose dimensions, in the style of Banks (2000), are item strength and the relative strengths of the two sources. A model that assumes decision boundaries of constant likelihood ratios, source guessing for unrecognized items, and nonoptimal allocation of attention can account for data from three canonical data sets without assuming any processes specifically devoted to recollection. Observed and predicted ROCs for one of these data sets are given in the article, and ROCs for the other two may be downloaded from the Psychonomic Society's Archive of Norms, Stimuli, and Data, www.psychonomic.org/archive.
A machine learning based method for the prediction of secretory proteins using amino acid composition, their order and similarity-search.	Most of the prediction methods for secretory proteins require the presence of a correct N-terminal end of the preprotein for correct classification. As large scale genome sequencing projects sometimes assign the 5'-end of genes incorrectly, many proteins are encoded without the correct N-terminus leading to incorrect prediction. In this study, a systematic attempt has been made to predict secretory proteins irrespective of presence or absence of N-terminal signal peptides (also known as classical and non-classical secreted proteins respectively), using machine-learning techniques; artificial neural network (ANN) and support vector machine (SVM). We trained and tested our methods on a dataset of 3321 secretory and 3654 non-secretory mammalian proteins using five-fold cross-validation technique. First, ANN-based modules have been developed for predicting secretory proteins using 33 physico-chemical properties, amino acid composition and dipeptide composition and achieved accuracies of 73.1%, 76.1% and 77.1%, respectively. Similarly, SVM-based modules using 33 physico-chemical properties, amino acid, and dipeptide composition have been able to achieve accuracies of 77.4%, 79.4% and 79.9%, respectively. In addition, BLAST and PSI-BLAST modules designed for predicting secretory proteins based on similarity search achieved 23.4% and 26.9% accuracy, respectively. Finally, we developed a hybrid-approach by integrating amino acid and dipeptide composition based SVM modules and PSI-BLAST module that increased the accuracy to 83.2%, which is significantly better than individual modules. We also achieved high sensitivity of 60.4% with low value of 5% false positive predictions using hybrid module. A web server SRTpred has been developed based on above study for predicting classical and non-classical secreted proteins from whole sequence of mammalian proteins, which is available from http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/srtpred/.
Evaluation of a scoring system for assessing prognosis in pediatric acute liver failure.	Pediatric acute liver failure (PALF) results in death or need for liver transplantation (LT) in up to 50% of patients. A scoring system for predicting death or LT (Liver Injury Units [LIU] score) in PALF was previously derived by our group, and used peak values during hospital admission of total bilirubin, prothrombin time/international normalized ratio, and ammonia as significant predictors of outcome. The aims of this study were to test the predictive value of the LIU score in a subsequent validation set of patients and to derive a hospital admission LIU (aLIU) score predictive of outcome.
Predictors of acute carpal tunnel syndrome associated with fracture of the distal radius.	A better understanding of the risk factors for acute carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) associated with fracture of the distal radius might influence recommendations for prophylactic carpal tunnel release.
Osteocalcin expression by circulating endothelial progenitor cells in patients with coronary atherosclerosis.	This study was designed to test whether patients with coronary atherosclerosis have increases in circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) expressing an osteogenic phenotype.
Mortality incidence and the severity of coronary atherosclerosis assessed by computed tomography angiography.	This study investigated whether cardiac computed tomography angiography (CTA) can predict all-cause mortality in symptomatic patients.
Detection of bullous lung disease: conventional radiography vs digital storage phosphor radiography.	The detection of fine linear contours and altered aeration are requirements for the radiologic diagnosis of bullous lung disease and are severe measures of the spatial and contrast resolution of chest imaging systems. We compared plain film radiography with five postprocessing algorithms of storage phosphor digital radiography (2144 x 1744 x 10 bit matrix with 0.2-mm pixel size) in the detection of CT-proved bullous lung disease (35 patients and 25 normal control subjects). Receiver-operating-characteristic analysis of 2160 observations by six interpreters was done to evaluate the observers' performance. By analysis of variance (p less than .05), we found that the default digital algorithm and the three edge-enhancing algorithms of high and medium frequencies performed less well than plain films did, but the differences fell short of statistical significance. Gray-scale reversal was the only digital algorithm that performed significantly less well than plain films did. We conclude that any differences between digital algorithms and plain films in the detection of bullous lung disease were too small to be detected in this study. Any difference between the two methods in providing clinically important, diagnostic information is likely to be insignificant.
Carcinoma of the prostate: MR images obtained with body coils do not accurately reflect tumor volume.	MR imaging with a body coil is unreliable in directly demonstrating tumor spread through the prostatic capsule. However, the likelihood of extracapsular spread of prostatic cancer rises with increasing tumor volume. The aim of our study was to assess the accuracy of MR with a body coil in diagnosing capsular penetration indirectly via an estimation of prostatic tumor volumes. Twenty-six patients with proved prostatic cancer that was clinically confined to the gland underwent MR imaging before radical prostatectomy and whole-mount pathologic sectioning of the specimen. Twenty of 31 lesions prospectively outlined on the MR images corresponded to cancers outlined on the pathology slides, and tumor volumes were calculated by using a voxel summation technique. On MR, tumor volume was underestimated in 11 of 20 cases and overestimated in nine of 20 cases. Only two of 20 size estimates based on MR findings were within 10% of actual tumor volume. Overlap in MR tumor volumes was significant between lesions with and without capsular penetration at microscopy. Factors contributing to inaccuracies in measurements of tumor volume on MR images included the variable histologic make-up of the tumors. Our results show that, although knowledge of the size of a prostatic lesion is important in predicting the behavior of the tumor, MR imaging with a body coil is not reliable for accurate estimation of tumor volume.
Human chorionic gonadotropin ratio of hemoperitoneum versus venous serum improves early diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy.	To analyze the value of the hCG ratio of peritoneal serum versus venous serum (R(P/V)) for early diagnosis and prognostic evaluation of ectopic pregnancy (EP).
A study of diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging in men with untreated localised prostate cancer on active surveillance.	Markers that predict the behaviour of localised prostate cancer are needed to identify patients that require treatment.
Robust label propagation on multiple networks.	Transductive inference on graphs such as label propagation algorithms is receiving a lot of attention. In this paper, we address a label propagation problem on multiple networks and present a new algorithm that automatically integrates structure information brought in by multiple networks. The proposed method is robust in that irrelevant networks are automatically deemphasized, which is an advantage over Tsuda's approach (2005). We also show that the proposed algorithm can be interpreted as an expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm with a student-t prior. Finally, we demonstrate the usefulness of our method in protein function prediction and digit classification, and show analytically and experimentally that our algorithm is much more efficient than existing algorithms.
Energy reflectance and tympanometry in normal and otosclerotic ears.	The major goal of this study was to examine differences in the middle ear mechano-acoustical properties of normal ears and ears with surgically confirmed otosclerosis using conventional and multifrequency tympanometry (MFT) as well as energy reflectance (ER). Second, we sought to compare ER, standard tympanometry, and MFT in their ability to distinguish healthy and otosclerotic ears examining both overall test performance (sensitivity and specificity) and receiver- operating characteristic analyses.
Surgical audit using the POSSUM scoring tool in vascular surgery patients.	Currently, crude morbidity and mortality rates are used to assess vascular surgical outcome. However, as a high-risk specialty, this may not be representative of quality of care.
Predictive value of aspartate aminotransferase to alanine aminotransferase ratio for hepatic fibrosis and clinical adverse outcomes in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis.	The aspartate aminotransferase to alanine aminotransferase ratio (AAR) was seldom applied for fibrosis assessment in primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) patients.
Value of brain natriuretic peptides in primary care patients with the clinical diagnosis of chronic heart failure.	Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and N-Terminal pro natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) are widely accepted to diagnose congestive heart failure (CHF) in the emergency room. The aim of this study was to evaluate the value of BNP and NT-proBNP to diagnose CHF in primary care.
Accuracy of spatiotemporal variables in gait analysis of neurologic dogs.	Outcome measures for functional assessment in experimental or naturally occurring spinal cord injury (SCI) in dogs have been largely subjective. This study is the first step in developing an easy, accurate, and objective outcome measure for neurologic dogs. The hypothesis was that the coefficient of variation (CV) of spatiotemporal parameters of gait in dogs with hindlimb paresis would be greater than that of normal dogs and dogs with orthopedic disease. This study evaluates the accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of spatiotemporal parameters in dogs with naturally occurring SCI. All dogs were allowed to walk at their own pace over a pressure walkway. Stride time, stance time, swing time, and stride length, and velocity were recorded using the pressure walkway, and age, breed, weight, and group were recorded for each dog. The gait parameters were summarized for each dog with coefficients of variation (CsV), determined three ways. The data were analyzed with competing models to determine the best one for differentiating neurologic dogs from non-neurologic dogs. Velocity, acceleration, height, and weight did not significantly affect any of the CsV. The model with the highest accuracy (89%) was a multivariate model using the CsV (calculated by combining feet of each dog) of stride length, stride time, and swing time (p = 0.0001). The sensitivity (0.8) and specificity (0.9) were calculated using Youden's Index. The combination of CsV (combined feet) of stride length, stride time, and swing time are relatively simple and accurate with great potential as an outcome measure in dogs with SCI.
Serum ferritin is a clinical biomarker in Japanese patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) independent of HFE gene mutation.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic liver injury. The spectrum of NAFLD is broad, extending from simple steatosis through nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Iron is regarded as a putative element that interacts with oxygen radicals, and high rates of hyperferritinemia and increased hepatic iron stores have been demonstrated in NASH. We investigated serum ferritin concentrations, HFE gene mutations, and insulin resistance in Japanese NASH patients and the diagnostic utility of serum ferritin concentrations as a means of distinguishing NASH. Serum ferritin concentrations were measured in 86 patients with histopathologically verified NAFLD (24 with steatosis and 62 with NASH) and 20 control subjects, they were tested for HFE gene mutations and their insulin resistance was measured. The serum ferritin concentration was significantly higher in the NASH patients than in the patients with simple steatosis (P = 0.006). There was no significant difference between the groups in HFE gene mutation (C282Y, H63D, and S65C), and the serum ferritin level was related with insulin resistance. The area under the ROC curve was 0.732 for distinguishing NASH from simple steatosis (P = 0.005; 95% CI, 0.596-0.856). In conclusion high serum ferritin concentrations are a distinguishing feature of Japanese NASH patients independent of HFE gene mutations.
Cancer-associated hypercalcemia: validation of a bedside prognostic score.	Until now, there was no validated and reliable tool to estimate life expectancy among patients with cancer-associated hypercalcemia (CAH). This study aimed to validate a prognostic score previously published.
The clinical value of serum connective tissue growth factor in the assessment of liver fibrosis.	To explore the relation between connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) in serum and the severity of liver fibrosis, and to determine the clinical value of CTGF in the assessment of liver fibrosis, serum CTGF was tested utilizing enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The correlation between serum CTGF concentration and fibrosis stage was assessed. The diagnostic performance of CTGF was assessed by comparing the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves (AUC) with a panel of fibrosis markers. The correlation coefficient was 0.689 (P < 0.001) between the levels of serum CTGF and fibrosis stages and the AUC of CTGF was 0.841 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.762-0.920) in distinguishing mild fibrosis from significant fibrosis. The present data revealed that serum CTGF was significantly correlated with the stage of liver fibrosis, suggested that serum CTGF was an indicator for the stage of liver fibrosis, and shown evidence that serum CTGF could be used as a valuable marker for assessing liver fibrosis.
Comparison of scanning laser polarimetry and optical coherence tomography in quantitative retinal nerve fiber assessment.	To investigate the relationship between retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) measurements in corresponding areas obtained with scanning laser polarimetry and optical coherence tomography and to compare their discriminating ability in the diagnosis of preperimetric and perimetric glaucoma.
Can demographic and admission laboratory variables be useful to identify long-stay patients with acute ischemic stroke? A hospital-based cohort study in Singapore.	The demographic and laboratory predictors of long-stay patients with ischemic stroke were sought in this retrospective hospital-based study. In the univariate and multivariate analysis, advanced age, male gender, leukocytosis, elevated creatinine, low-serum albumin, elevated alkaline transaminases, and lactate dehydrogenase were identified as independent predictors of "long" stayers. At an optimal probability cut-offs, the receiver operating curve incorporating these variables was 0.70, sensitivity 68%, specificity 80%, positive-predictive value 39% and negative-predictive value 95%. Application of this information may assist physicians to triage patients at risk of severe stroke for early therapy and care.
Improved sensitivity of the rapid screen of mild traumatic brain injury.	This study aimed to investigate the acute effects of mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) in an emergency department sample. A total of 246 (186 male, 60 female) cases of mTBI and 102 (65 male and 37 female) cases of orthopedic injuries were tested within 24 hours of injury. Mild TBI patients performed more poorly on all subtests of the Rapid Screen of Concussion (RSC) and completed fewer symbols on Digit Symbol than did orthopedic controls. RSC scores predicted group membership better than chance, and Digit Symbol scores contributed significantly to predicting group membership over and above the contribution of the RSC, resulting in 70.4% sensitivity and 74% specificity for the extended protocol. The results of this study indicate that learning and memory, orientation, and speed of information processing are impaired immediately following mTBI. Furthermore, a brief battery of tests that include word recall, orientation, and the Digit Symbol Substitution Test could assess the severity of dysfunction following mTBI, and assist in clinical decision making regarding discharge, return to routine activities, and management of the effects of injury.
Lot quality assurance sampling: single- and double-sampling plans.	Lot quality assurance sampling (LQAS) was originally developed for industrial applications. This article discusses the extension of its application to a public health setting. When resources must be allocated to several communities based on whether or not each exceeds a target proportion of members with a characteristic, a sampling scenario arises which is different to the standard parameter estimation scenario. LQAS is an efficient procedure for sampling in this instance. Under certain conditions, double sampling may further enhance the efficiency of an LQAS plan. LQAS is discussed and illustrated by examples, and the theoretical foundations of single and double lot quality assurance sampling are presented. Examples of sample size and critical value tables are also presented.
Preliminary evaluation of the DDS-PC inventory: a new tool to assess impulsive-compulsive behaviours associated to dopamine replacement therapy in Parkinson's disease.	Dopaminergic medications could increase the occurrence of a set of dysregulated behaviours in Parkinson's disease (PD), including reward-seeking behaviours (pathological gambling, hypersexuality, compulsive shopping, binge eating, reckless driving), punding and compulsive medication use. We report a preliminary evaluation of a questionnaire to assess the presence of these impulsive-compulsive behaviours associated to dopamine replacement therapy in PD. We screened 38 patients and their caregivers, comparing dopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS) patients and non-DDS patients. The questionnaire was well accepted and demonstrated a preliminary good discriminant validity (p = 0.000). In addition, clinically relevant dysregulated condition is associated with a younger age (p = 0.006), younger age at disease onset (p = 0.001), levodopa-equivalent daily dose (p = 0.029), UPDRS III (p = 0.021), increased global psychopathology (interpersonal sensitivity and psychoticism), and differences in our inventory (p = 0.000). These preliminary results suggest that the DDS-PC inventory could help to identify patients experiencing impulsive-compulsive behaviours associated to DDS.
Impact of physician experience on triage of emergency room patients with acute chest pain at three teaching hospitals.	To determine whether the experience of the physician (as measured by postgraduate training level or time during the academic year) who performs the initial evaluation affects the triage of patients with acute chest pain.
The bedside assessment of splenic enlargement.	To evaluate the clinical assessment of splenic enlargement using specific bedside maneuvers including Traube's space percussion, the splenic percussion sign, Middleton's maneuver, supine palpation, and right lateral decubitus palpation.
Prospective diagnostic accuracy assessment of the HemosIL HS D-dimer to exclude pulmonary embolism in emergency department patients.	Chest pain and shortness of breath are among the most common symptoms requiring immediate evaluation. Testing for pulmonary embolism (PE) has become easier and widespread due to D-dimer blood tests. Safe use of these tests is only possible if sensitivity is high and they are used in non-high probability patients. We evaluated diagnostic performance of the HemosIL HS D-dimer, which despite FDA approval in 2005, has been minimally reported in prospective standard clinical care.
The short form of the Geriatric Depression Scale: a comparison with the 30-item form.	The Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) exists in both short and long forms. The original 30-item form of the GDS has been shown to be an effective screening test for depression in a variety of settings. However, its utility in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) is questionable. The short, 15-item version of the GDS was developed primarily for brevity and, in particular, for use in populations such as the medically ill or those with dementia, where the longer form might be burdensome. How well this short form works in these populations, however, is largely undetermined. In this paper, the sensitivity and specificity of the 15- and 30-item GDS are compared in a group of patients who were either cognitively intact or had mild DAT. The findings suggest that the short version of the GDS, like its longer predecessor, is an effective screening tool in the cognitively intact. However, in a population of subjects with mild DAT, it does not appear to retain its validity.
A comparison of dual energy radiography measurements at the lumbar spine and proximal femur for the diagnosis of osteoporosis.	In this study we assessed the ability of proximal femur and spine DER measurements to discriminate between control (C) and osteoporotic (OP) subjects as well as the reproducibility of the femoral DER technique. DER measurements of the proximal femur and spine (L2-L4) were obtained in 58 control (unfractured) and 54 osteoporotic (vertebral fractured) women. Linear regression analyses for each site with age suggested that density values from the Ward's triangle region explained the majority of variance due to age in the decline of bone density in both control (r = -0.45; P less than 0.0005) and osteoporotic subjects (r = 0.34; P less than 0.05), with similar findings for the femoral neck in OP subjects (r = -0.30; P less than 0.05). No other femoral site produced a significant correlation with age, and vertebral measurements were the lowest in OP subjects (r = -0.11; P = NS). Cross-sectional rates of bone loss in each region implied that for OP subjects the Ward's triangle and femoral neck regions detected the largest amount of bone loss (0.64% and 0.38%/yr, respectively), while vertebral measurements were again the smallest (0.19%/yr). Results indicated that proximal femur measurements can be obtained with relatively good precision (coefficients of variation ranged from 1.9% for femoral neck to 3.0% for Ward's triangle). Finally, receiver operating characteristic curves revealed that both Ward's triangle and femoral neck densities were able to more successfully discriminate control from osteoporotic subjects than vertebral measurements. These data support the contention that measurement of skeletal sites rich in trabecular bone, such as the femur, are more useful for diagnosing osteoporosis than DER measurements of the lumbar spine. The data also suggest that the femur may be a better site than the lumbar spine for the clinical evaluation of osteoporosis with the DER technique.
Disease severity in the coronary care unit.	The impact of analysis of the severity of illness on the in-hospital mortality was reviewed retrospectively on a cohort of patients admitted to a coronary care unit. Three hundred and eighty-six patients were admitted during the study period, with diagnoses including myocardial infarction (49 percent), unstable angina (23 percent), arrhythmias (11 percent), congestive heart failure (5 percent), and nondiagnostic chest pain (5 percent). Total in-hospital mortality was 13 percent. Severity of illness was measured using the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (APACHE 2) score. Mortality was found to be influenced by admitting diagnosis (p = 0.01), source of referral (p = 0.03), and APACHE 2 score (nonsurvivors, 16.5 +/- 10.1; survivors, 8.5 +/- 4.8; p less than 0.001). The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve for the APACHE 2 confirmed it as a predictor of mortality, with an area under the curve (+/- SE) of 0.75 +/- 0.04 (95 percent confidence limits, 0.67 to 0.83). Logistic regression analysis showed the APACHE 2 score and the diagnosis on admission to be significant multivariate predictors of mortality, and a series of diagnosis-specific coefficients are presented. We conclude that the APACHE 2 score is a useful tool for the overall assessment and management of the CCU, as it is in the multidisciplinary medical-surgical intensive care unit.
Prognostic significance of proliferative activity of diffuse large cell lymphomas.	Diffuse large cell and immunoblastic lymphomas are a heterogeneous group of tumors. They differ phenotypically and genotypically, and their clinical course varies in aggressiveness. This study evaluates the prognostic significance of proliferative activity and compares it with immunophenotype, genotype, and clinical data. Proliferative activity was measured by Ki-67 antibody. In 22 cases of diffuse large cell and immunoblastic lymphoma high proliferative activity (greater than 40%) was associated with longer disease-free survival (average 42 months). In contrast, the patients with lymphomas exhibiting low proliferative activity (less than 40%) died shortly after diagnosis (average 8 months). These differences are statistically significant and indicate a need for large-scale prospective studies.
Serum C3 levels are diagnostically more sensitive and specific for systemic lupus erythematosus activity than are serum C4 levels. The Lupus Nephritis Collaborative Study Group.	To determine whether serum C3 or C4 is more likely to be normal during systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) remission and abnormal during SLE relapse we studied twelve SLE patients who presented with severe nephritis. The patients were followed long term (12 to 77 months) through multiple relapses (N = 41) and remissions (N = 13) defined by protocol. A total of 471 serum samples were obtained at defined intervals during these relapses and remissions and were analyzed for C3 and C4 levels by two different methods: nephelometry (N) and radial immunodiffusion (R). During SLE remission (defined by protocol and without reference to serum complement levels), C3 measured by N-assay (C3N) and by R-assay (C3R) tended to be normal (specificity of 93% and 71%, respectively). By contrast, C4 measured by N-assay (C4N) and by R-assay (C4R) showed no such tendency (specificity of 50% for both C4N and C4R). During SLE relapse (defined by protocol and without reference to serum complement levels), C3N and C3R were more likely to be abnormal (sensitivity 95% and 85%, respectively) compared with C4N and C4R (sensitivity 56% and 54%, respectively, P less than 0.001 compared with corresponding values for the C3 assay). Analysis by receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) curves demonstrated that the reduced diagnostic sensitivity of C4 versus C3 is not explained by use of an inappropriate lower limits of normal (LLN) for C4.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Bone-marrow immunophenotypic analysis allows the identification of high risk of progression and immune condition-related monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance.	Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) progresses to plasma cell dyscrasia at a rate of 1% per year. A high prevalence of MGUS has been noted in series of patients with immune disorders or chronic infections.
Reliability of optic nerve ultrasound for the evaluation of patients with spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage.	The aim of our study is to confirm the reliability of optic nerve ultrasound as a method to detect intracranial hypertension in patients with spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage, to assess the reproducibility of the measurement of the optic nerve sheath diameter (ONSD), and to verify that ONSD changes concurrently with intracranial pressure (ICP) variations.
Are there any predictive factors of metachronous inguinal hernias in children with unilateral inguinal hernia?	This study was done to identify risk factors for metachronous manifestation of contralateral inguinal hernia in children with unilateral inguinal hernia.
The clinical importance of changes in the 0 to 10 numeric rating scale for worst, least, and average pain intensity: analyses of data from clinical trials of duloxetine in pain disorders.	Data on 1,700 patients pooled from 5 randomized, placebo-controlled duloxetine studies (3 in diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain and 2 in fibromyalgia) were analyzed to determine clinically important differences (CIDs) in the 0 to 10 Numeric Rating Scale-Pain Intensity (NRS-PI) for patient-reported "worst" and "least" pain intensity while validating the previously published level for "average" pain. The correspondence between the baseline-to-endpoint raw and percentage change in the NRS-PI for the worst, least, and average pain were compared to patients' perceived improvements at endpoint as measured by the 7-point Patient Global Impression of Improvement (PGI-I) scales. Stratification by baseline pain separated the raw but not the percent change scores. The PGI-I category of "much better" or above was our a priori definition of a CID. Cutoff points for the NRS-PI change scores were determined using a receiver operator curve analysis. A consistent relationship between the worst and average NRS-PI percent change and the PGI-I was demonstrated regardless of the study, pain type, age, sex, or treatment group with a reduction of approximately 34%. The least pain item CID was slightly higher at 41%. Raw change CID cutoff points were approximately -2, -2.5 and -3 for least, average, and worst pain respectively.
Long-term upper and lower urinary tract functions in children with posterior urethral valves.	Several factors have been identified as predictive of future renal function in children with posterior urethral valves (PUV). Our aim was to analyse upper and lower urinary tract outcome in patients with PUV, and determine any factors from the period of early management that were predictive of future renal function.
Is overactivity a core feature in ADHD? Familial and receiver operating characteristic curve analysis of mechanically assessed activity level.	Symptoms of overactivity form part of the DSM-IV criteria for the combined or hyperactive-impulsive subtypes of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD); yet little data exist that would quantify the nature of the overactivity component. We aimed to quantify the ability of four different measures of motion sensor data, taken from actigraphs, and the intraindividual variability (IIV) in these measures, to distinguish ADHD cases from controls. Furthermore, we aimed to investigate the degree of shared familial influences on these measures and the ADHD diagnosis.
Personalized medicine: genetic variation and loss of physiologic complexity are associated with mortality in 644 trauma patients.	Personalized medicine merges genetics, physiology, and patient outcome. Loss of physiologic complexity (heart rate [HR] variability) is a bedside biomarker for autonomic nervous system (ANS) dysfunction. We hypothesized that variability in ANS receptor proteins (genetics) and loss of complexity (physiology) are independently associated with mortality in critical illness.
Optimal waist circumference for prediction of metabolic syndrome in young Korean women with polycystic ovary syndrome.	The International Diabetes Federation consensus proposed an ethnically specific criteria of waist circumference (WC) for central obesity, but, the nationwide definition is still debated in Korea. For the detection of the optimal WC cutoff value, the nonadipose components of the metabolic syndrome (MS) were defined by modification of revised 2003 Rotterdam consensus as having two or more risk factors such as hypertension, hyperglycemia, and dyslipidemia without consideration of abdominal obesity. By using receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, cutoff points of WC and visceral fat area (VFA) for prediction of MS were 80 cm and 53.1 cm(2). WC cutoff points corresponding to VFA >53.1 and 100 cm(2) were 73.3 and 77.8 cm. The sensitivity and specificity of currently used value of WC 88 cm were 41.9 and 91.5%, suggesting that it could be too high in Korean population. Central obesity defined as WC >80 cm was significantly associated with nonadipose components of MS after adjustment for age, BMI, cholesterol, triglycerides, fasting insulin, and free testosterone levels. Central obesity with WC of >80 cm predicted the presence of nonadipose MS (odds ratio 16.6; 95% confidence interval (CI) 6.5-42.6). It was also significant (odds ratio 14.7; 95% CI 3.4-64.3) when we applied the WC value of 70 cm instead of 80 cm. In conclusion, WC of 80 and 70 cm could be appropriate cutoff points to identify the MS and visceral adiposity in Korean women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), respectively. Therefore, PCOS women with a WC over 70 cm should be closely monitored for the development of MS.
The intrinsic transit time of free microvascular flaps: clinical and prognostic implications.	Microscope-integrated indocyanine green near-infrared videoangiography (ICGA) is a new method for the intraoperative assessment of vascular flow through microvascular anastomoses. The intrinsic transit time (ITT) describes the time period from the dye appears at the arterial anastomosis (t(1)) till it reaches the suture line of the venous anastomosis (t(2)). As the transit time reflects blood flow velocity within the flap, prolonged ITT might correlate with low blood flow and a higher rate of postoperative thrombosis. We performed a clinical trial evaluating the association between intraoperative free flap transit time and early anastomotic complications in elective microsurgery.
Good research practices for comparative effectiveness research: analytic methods to improve causal inference from nonrandomized studies of treatment effects using secondary data sources: the ISPOR Good Research Practices for Retrospective Database Analysis Task Force Report--Part III.	Most contemporary epidemiologic studies require complex analytical methods to adjust for bias and confounding. New methods are constantly being developed, and older more established methods are yet appropriate. Careful application of statistical analysis techniques can improve causal inference of comparative treatment effects from nonrandomized studies using secondary databases. A Task Force was formed to offer a review of the more recent developments in statistical control of confounding.
Inference and characterization of horizontally transferred gene families using stochastic mapping.	Macrogenomic events, in which genes are gained and lost, play a pivotal evolutionary role in microbial evolution. Nevertheless, probabilistic-evolutionary models describing such events and methods for their robust inference are considerably less developed than existing methodologies for analyzing site-specific sequence evolution. Here, we present a novel method for the inference of gains and losses of gene families. First, we develop probabilistic-evolutionary models describing the dynamics of gene-family content, which are more biologically realistic than previously suggested models. In our likelihood-based models, gains and losses are represented by transitions between presence and absence, given an underlying phylogeny. We employ a mixture-model approach in which we allow both the gain rate and the loss rate to vary among gene families. Second, we use these models together with the analytic implementation of stochastic mapping to infer branch-specific events. Our novel methodology allows us to infer and quantify horizontal gene transfer (HGT) events. This enables us to rank various gene families and lineages according to their propensity to undergo gains and losses. Applying our methodology to 4,873 gene families shows that: 1) the novel mixture models describe the observed variability in gene-family content among microbes significantly better than previous models; 2) The stochastic mapping approach enables accurate inference of gain and loss events based on simulations; 3) At least 34% of the gene families analyzed are inferred to have experienced HGT at least once during their evolution; and 4) Gene families that were inferred to experience HGT are both enriched and depleted with respect to specific functional categories.
Comparison of plasma Tu-M2-PK and CA19-9 in pancreatic cancer.	The performance of the 2 tumor markers carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) and tumor M2 pyruvate kinase (Tu-M2-PK) separately and in combination detecting pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) was evaluated in a prospective study.
Identifying translation initiation sites in prokaryotes using support vector machine.	Gene identification in genomes has been a fundamental and long-standing task in bioinformatics and computational biology. Many computational methods have been developed to predict genes in prokaryote genomes by identifying translation initiation site (TIS) in transcript data. However, the pseudo-TISs at the genome level make these methods suffer from a high number of false positive predictions. In addition, most of the existing tools use an unsupervised learning framework, whose predictive accuracy may depend on the choice of specific organism.
The influence of the airway driving pressure on pulsed pressure variation as a predictor of fluid responsiveness.	Assessing pulse pressure variation (PPV) to predict fluid responsiveness in mechanically ventilated patients with tidal volume (VT) and the impact of VT and airway driving pressure (P(plat) - PEEP) on the ability of PPV for predicting fluid responsiveness.
Sensitivity of the test of memory and learning to attention and memory deficits in children with ADHD.	Children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) exhibit a number of cognitive deficits. The current study compared patterns of attention, learning, and memory impairment on the Test of Memory and Learning (TOMAL) between 80 children with ADHD and 80 normal comparisons who were matched for age and gender. Results demonstrated that children with ADHD performed significantly worse than matched controls on the Attention/Concentration Index and the Sequential Recall Index. ROC analysis indicated that these two indexes had good classification accuracy with AUCs of.76 and.77 respectively. There were also group differences on the other index scores except the Associative Recall Index. Factor analysis of the ADHD sample extracted five factors, including an Attention factor that significantly correlated with performance on nonverbal memory tasks. Significant correlations between the TOMAL Index scores and tests of intelligence and visuomotor integration supported the convergent and discriminant validity of the test. These results provide support for the criterion validity of the TOMAL in assessing neurocognitive deficits in children with ADHD.
Intolerance to initial orthostasis relates to systolic BP changes in elders.	To explore the association of early symptoms of orthostatic intolerance (OI) with systolic (SBP), diastolic (DBP) and mean arterial (MAP) blood pressure changes in a sample of community-dwelling older people undergoing an active stand test; and to establish whether SBP and DBP changes have different symptomatic correlates during early orthostasis.
Volumetric or time-based capnography for excluding pulmonary embolism in outpatients?	Volumetric capnography is technically more demanding but theoretically better than the time-based alveolar deadspace fraction (P(a)CO(2) - EtCO(2))/P(a)CO(2) as a bedside diagnostic tool for excluding pulmonary embolism (PE) in outpatients.
Nidogen-2: a new serum biomarker for ovarian cancer.	New ovarian cancer biomarkers suitable for early disease diagnosis, prognosis or monitoring could improve patient management and outcomes.
The significance of overvaluation of shape and weight in binge eating disorder.	As publication of DSM-V draws near, research is needed to validate the diagnostic scheme for binge eating disorder (BED). Shape and weight overvaluation has stimulated considerable debate in this regard, given associations with psychosocial impairment and poor treatment outcome in BED. This study sought to further explore the convergent validity and diagnostic specificity of shape and weight overvaluation in BED. A total of 160 women with BED, and 108 women with non-eating disordered psychiatric disorders were recruited from the community. Women with BED were classified as more or less severe based on a global measure of eating-related psychopathology; subsequent receiver operating characteristics analysis determined that a threshold of at least "moderate" overvaluation best predicted membership into a more severe group. BED participants with threshold overvaluation exhibited poorer psychosocial functioning than those with subthreshold overvaluation, as well as participants with other psychiatric disorders. Discriminant function analysis revealed that threshold overvaluation predicted a diagnosis of BED versus other psychiatric disorder with 67.7% accuracy. Results suggest that shape and weight overvaluation is a useful diagnostic specifier in BED. Continued research is warranted to examine its predictive validity in natural course and treatment outcome studies.
Detection of survivin protein in aqueous humor and serum of retinoblastoma patients and its clinical significance.	There is growing biomedical interest in survivin as a diagnostic and prognostic factor in human neoplasms. The present work assessed survivin expression in retinoblastoma.
Identification of broadly discriminatory tissue biomarkers of synovitis with binary and multicategory receiver operating characteristic analysis.	Immunohistochemical synovial tissue biomarkers are used increasingly to classify arthropathies, study their pathogenesis, and to measure disease activity in clinical trials. We have used receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis to quantify the discriminatory abilities of markers for common inflammatory cells (subintimal CD15, CD68, CD3, CD20, CD38, and lining CD68), proliferating cells (Ki-67) and blood vessels (von Willebrand factor, vWF) among inflammatory (chronic septic arthritis, early arthritis and rheumatoid arthritis (RA)) and degenerative arthropathies (osteoarthritis (OA) and orthopedic arthropathies) and normal synovium. Six of the eight markers distinguished accurately between RA and the degenerative arthropathies (area under the curve (AUC) 0.91-0.97), whereas subintimal CD68 (AUC 0.92) and Ki-67 (AUC 0.87) distinguished best between OA and normal synovium. Fold differences in mean expression correlated only modestly with AUCs (r(2) = 0.44). Multicategory ROC analysis ranked Ki-67, subintimal CD68, and CD15 as discriminating best among all six sample groups, and thus identified them as the most broadly applicable markers.
Prospective evaluation of waist circumference and visceral adipose tissue in patients with chronic kidney disease.	Waist circumference (WC), a simple anthropometric measure, is associated with visceral adipose tissue (VAT) in cross-sectional studies, and thus has been used as a surrogate marker for VAT. However, associations between changes over time in WC and VAT have not been studied in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients.
Diagnosis and staging of primary ovarian cancer: correlation between PET/CT, Doppler US, and CT or MRI.	To compare the diagnostic accuracy of positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT), pelvic Doppler ultrasonography (US), abdomino-pelvic computed tomography (CT), and pelvic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for detection of ovarian cancer and to assess the role of PET/CT in evaluating the dissemination of ovarian cancer.
Diagnosis and quantification of hepatic fibrosis in children with diffusion weighted MR imaging.	To evaluate the accuracy of diffusion weighted MR imaging in diagnosis and quantification of hepatic fibrosis in children with chronic hepatitis.
Clinical outcome of seriously ill surgical patients with intra-abdominal infection depends on both physiologic (APACHE II score) and immunologic (DTH score) alterations.	The delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) response and the APACHE II score in 118 patients with surgical infections were measured prospectively and related to outcome. Logistic regression analysis generated the equation: [formula: see text]. The risk assessment as calculated by this model was compared to that using the APACHE II system alone in a separate group of 354 patients. There was an improvement in the predictive capacity of the APACHE II + DTH equation compared to APACHE II alone, as shown by a better fit of expected and observed deaths, an improved Goodman-Kruskal G statistic, and a larger area under the receiver operating characteristic curve. It is concluded that the DTH response (a broad marker of immunocompetence) is an independent prognostic factor in surgical patients and can be used in combination with the APACHE II score (a measure of acute physiology) to estimate better the outcome of surgical patients.
Evaluation of contrast-enhanced digital mammography.	The goal of this prospective study was to evaluate the possible diagnostic benefits of contrast-enhanced digital mammography (CEDM) over conventional mammography.
Iron deficiency anemia in the elderly: the diagnostic process.	To determine the effectiveness of physician probability estimates calculated on the basis of findings from history-taking and physical examination in the diagnosis of iron deficiency anemia in elderly patients.
Multiple electrode aggregometry predicts stent thrombosis better than the vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein phosphorylation assay.	The prognostic value of the vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) phosphorylation assay and multiple electrode aggregometry (MEA) for thrombotic adverse events has been shown in independent studies. As no direct comparison between the two methods has been made so far, we investigated which laboratory approach has a better predictive value for stent thrombosis.
Antiplatelet effects of clopidogrel and bleeding in patients undergoing coronary stent placement.	In patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), a link between bleeding and excess mortality has been demonstrated. A potential association of platelet response to clopidogrel and bleeding has not been well established yet.
Assessment of the validity of the frequently used lipid indices for predicting LDL peak particle diameter in a large cohort of 1955 normal and dyslipidemic subjects.	To assess the relationship between commonly used lipid indices and LDL peak particle diameter (LDL-PPD) in a large cohort of 1955 subjects.
Interstitial lung disease: impact of postprocessing in digital storage phosphor imaging.	The ability to resolve the fine linear structures of interstitial lung disease is one measure of the limiting performance characteristics of an imaging system. Conventional screen-film radiography was compared with six algorithms of isodose storage phosphor digital radiography (0.2-mm x 10-bit pixel matrix) in the detection of interstitial lung abnormality documented by means of computed tomography in 40 patients with abnormalities and 25 healthy control subjects. Performance was evaluated with an analysis of variance (the Fisher paired comparison test; P less than .05) of the average receiver operating characteristic area of 2,730 observations by six readers. The moderately and the more markedly high-frequency edge-enhanced algorithms of storage phosphor digital radiographs were equivalent in performance to screen-film radiography. The default mode, low- and medium-frequency edge-enhanced algorithms, and gray scale reversed mode of storage phosphor digital radiography were inferior to screen-film radiography. The authors conclude that high-frequency edge-enhanced algorithms can perform as well as screen-film radiography in the detection of interstitial disease.
Primary CT diagnosis of abdominal masses in a PACS environment.	Whether the display medium--film versus cathode ray tube (CRT)--affects observer performance during interpretation of computed tomographic (CT) images is an important research issue in these times of implementation and growth of picture archiving and communications systems in radiology. The authors performed a multiobserver receiver operating characteristic (ROC) study to determine the performance of radiologists who read abdominal CT studies displayed on film, as well as on a high-resolution workstation (video monitor) that made use of three different display modes. A total of 166 examinations were evaluated by eight radiologists, who recorded their ordinal confidence ratings of the demonstration of presence or absence of abdominal masses. ROC analysis showed small differences in the confidence ratings assigned by individual readers for the detection and interpretation tasks. Results for the group as a whole showed no significant reduction or improvement in observer performance when ratings for any one of the workstation display modes were analyzed. The results of this study demonstrate that current CRT display technology is adequate for enabling the primary detection of abdominal masses with CT examinations.
Predicting survival after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest: role of the Utstein data elements.	Survival after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest depends on the links in the chain of survival. The Utstein elements are designed to assess these links and provide the basis for comparing outcomes within and across communities. We assess whether these measures sufficiently predict survival and explain outcome differences.
Spirometric criteria for hospital admission of patients with acute exacerbation of COPD.	Recent studies have demonstrated that there is a high relapse rate for patients discharged from the Emergency Department (ED) following treatment of acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Objective criteria have not been established to determine when to hospitalize these patients. This study evaluated spirometric criteria for that use. Eighty-three patients with an acute exacerbation of COPD were studied; 45 percent were admitted to the hospital while 17 percent of the patients who were discharged suffered a relapse. An FEV1 of less than 40 percent of predicted normal identified patients who required hospital admission or suffered a relapse with a sensitivity of 0.96, specificity of 0.58, and overall accuracy of 0.78. Combining clinical assessment with spirometry led to an improvement in specificity to 0.73 with a minimal decrease in sensitivity. Patients with an FEV1 of 40 percent or greater of predicted normal or no clinical evidence of respiratory distress after treatment may be safely discharged from the hospital. Patients not meeting these criteria are at high risk for relapse and should either be admitted or have further aggressive ED therapy.
Improvement of cardiovascular risk prediction: time to review current knowledge, debates, and fundamentals on how to assess test characteristics.	Cardiovascular risk assessment might be improved with the addition of emerging, new tests derived from atherosclerosis imaging, laboratory tests or functional tests. This article reviews relative risk, odds ratios, receiver-operating curves, posttest risk calculations based on likelihood ratios, the net reclassification improvement and integrated discrimination. This serves to determine whether a new test has an added clinical value on top of conventional risk testing and how this can be verified statistically. Two clinically meaningful examples serve to illustrate novel approaches. This work serves as a review and basic work for the development of new guidelines on cardiovascular risk prediction, taking into account emerging tests, to be proposed by members of the 'Taskforce on Vascular Risk Prediction' under the auspices of the Working Group 'Swiss Atherosclerosis' of the Swiss Society of Cardiology in the future.
Discrimination of metastatic from hyperplastic pelvic lymph nodes in patients with cervical cancer by diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging.	To evaluate the diagnostic value of diffusion-weighted MR imaging for differentiating metastatic and hyperplastic pelvic lymph nodes in patients with cervical carcinoma.
An evaluation of clinical estimation of fetal weight and symphysis fundal distance for detection of SGA infants.	In 58 small for gestational age (SGA) infants and 141 non-SGA infants, the measuring of symphysis fundal distance (SF) was compared with clinical estimation of fetal weight in order to evaluate the efficacy of the two methods of predicting SGA. By regression analyses, the SF curve deviation explains 22% of the variation of birthweight. The estimated fetal weight (EFW) curve deviation explains 40%. By combining the two values, 42% of the variation in birthweight is explained. When receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analyses, Kappa index and relative risk were applied the clinical estimation of fetal weight by abdominal palpation was found to be as reliable a predictor of SGA at birth as the measurement of the SF distance. Statistical analyses of the SF curve and EFW curve do not improve the results compared with the last measurement of SF distance and EFW. Combination of the EFW and SF measurements results in a higher sensitivity (one test positive) or a higher predictive value (both tests positive). Only marginal additional diagnostic information was achieved, however, as the ROC curves, Kappa index and Relative risk were nearly unchanged, regardless of combination of EFW and SF measurements.
Further validation of computer-based prediction of chemical asthma hazard.	There is no agreed protocol for the prediction of low molecular weight (LMW) respiratory sensitizers. This creates challenges for occupational physicians responsible for the health of workforces using novel chemicals and respiratory physicians investigating cases of occupational asthma caused by novel asthmagens.
Angiopoietin-2 in patients requiring renal replacement therapy in the ICU: relation to acute kidney injury, multiple organ dysfunction syndrome and outcome.	Endothelial activation has emerged as an early event in the pathogenesis of microcirculatory dysfunction, capillary leakage and multi-organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS). Angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2), a circulating antagonistic ligand of the endothelial-specific Tie2 receptor, has been identified as a non-redundant gatekeeper of endothelial activation. On the basis of our previous report demonstrating release of Ang-2 in endotoxemia and sepsis, we aimed to study the utility of Ang-2 to serve as an outcome-specific biomarker in patients requiring renal replacement therapy (RRT) in the intensive care unit (ICU).
Using the concept of Chou's pseudo amino acid composition for risk type prediction of human papillomaviruses.	High-risk types of human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are the etiological agents in nearly all cases (99.7%) of cervical cancer, and the HPV E6 protein is one of the two viral oncoproteins which is expressed in virtually all HPV-positive cancers. Therefore, classifying the risk type of HPVs is very useful and necessary for diagnosis and remedy of cervical cancer. To predict and to classify the risk types of HPV by bioinformatics analysis, 96 E6 protein sequences from available databases were obtained. To investigate the risk type of these sequences, PseAAC server, ROC curves and statistical analysis were applied. Our classification was based on some characters of HPV E6 proteins, such as hydrophobicity, hydrophilicity, side chain mass, PK of the alpha-COOH group, PK of the alpha-NH3(+) group and PI at 25 degrees C. Risk type of 4 unknown HPV types and 25 non-reported HPV types were also predicted. These results show that bioinformatics based theoretical approaches can direct and simplify experimental studies.
A single set of numerical cutpoints to define moderate and severe symptoms for the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System.	Symptom intensity in cancer and palliative care patients is frequently assessed using a 0-10 ranking score. Results are then often grouped into verbal categories (mild, moderate, or severe) to guide therapy. Numerical cutpoints separating these categories are often variable, with previous work suggesting different cutpoints across different symptoms, which is unwieldy for clinical use. The Edmonton Symptom Assessment Symptom (ESAS) assesses nine common symptoms using this 0-10 scale. The primary aim of this study was to examine the relationship between the numerical and verbal scores using the ESAS and to identify a single cutpoint to separate severe from nonsevere symptomatology. A second goal was to similarly identify a cutpoint to separate moderate or severe from none or mild symptom intensity. Consenting patients (n=400) completed both a standard ESAS and an identical form that replaced 0-10 with none, mild, moderate, and severe. Receiver operating characteristic curves were generated to identify the best fit between sensitivity and specificity. For the "severe" ranking, six symptoms had a best fit of 7, with sensitivity for the remaining three symptoms still greater than 80%. For the combined grouping of moderate or severe, results were less uniform. A cutpoint of either 4 or 5 would be supported by our data, with a greater sensitivity using 4 and improved specificity using 5 as the cutpoint. Across all ESAS symptoms, then, 7 or higher represents a severe symptom by patient definition, whereas a cutpoint of either 4 or 5 could reasonably define combined moderate and severe symptoms.
Diagnostic utility of the glucagon stimulation test in comparison to the insulin tolerance test in patients following pituitary surgery.	The glucagon stimulation test (GST) like the insulin tolerance test (ITT) stimulates both ACTH and GH secretion. However, there are limited data with modern assays on sensitivity and specificity for GST in comparison to ITT. The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic utility of the GST for GH deficiency (GHD) and adrenal insufficiency (AI) in patients following pituitary surgery.
25-OH-vitamin D assay variation and subject management in clinical practice.	To compare two methods for assessing vitamin D status in clinical settings.
Early elevation of C-reactive protein correlates with severe infection and nonrelapse mortality in children undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation.	C-reactive protein (CRP) is an acute phase reactant that is a reliable marker of systemic inflammation and has been associated with increased morbidity and mortality following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in adults. In this study, we evaluated whether early elevations of CRP were associated with various complications and nonrelapse mortality following HSCT in pediatric patients. Seventy pediatric patients had CRP levels drawn at regular time points during the first week following their transplants. Patients were followed for 100 days following transplant, and transplant-related complications were documented. Patients who subsequently developed severe infections had higher median CRP values than those without severe infections (median 8.03 mg/dL versus 1.64 mg/dL, P = .0008) as did those who suffered nonrelapse mortality compared with those who did not (12.6 mg/dL versus 2.44 mg/dL, P = .02). These findings suggest that elevated CRP values may be useful as a marker of individual pediatric patients with a higher risk for treatment-related morbidity and mortality.
Sensory testing of distal sural and posterior tibial nerves provides early prediction of surgical anesthesia after single-injection infragluteal-parabiceps sciatic nerve block.	Surgical anesthesia for reconstructive ankle surgery requires sensory and motor block of all the terminal nerve distributions of the sciatic nerve. In this prospective observational study, we investigated the value of sensory and motor testing of the foot, after local anesthetic injection, for predicting complete sciatic nerve blockade and the duration of testing required for identifying incomplete anesthesia.
Defining hyperandrogenism in polycystic ovary syndrome: measurement of testosterone and androstenedione by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and analysis by receiver operator characteristic plots.	Hyperandrogenism is one of the diagnostic criteria for the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) despite no agreed definition of hyperandrogenism. In part, this is due to the quality of testosterone immunoassays. We have developed liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry methods for analysing testosterone and androstenedione (Ad) to study their reference ranges and diagnostic utility in PCOS.
Criteria for assessing esophageal motility in laparoscopic adjustable gastric band patients: the importance of the lower esophageal contractile segment.	Esophageal function appears critical in laparoscopic adjustable gastric band (LAGB) patients; however, conventional motility assessments have not proven to be clinically useful. Recent combined video fluoroscopic and high-resolution manometric studies have identified important components of esophageal function in LAGB patients.
Linear discriminant analysis and artificial neural network for glaucoma diagnosis using scanning laser polarimetry-variable cornea compensation measurements in Taiwan Chinese population.	To determine whether linear discriminant analysis (LDA) and artificial neural network (ANN) can improve the differentiation between glaucomatous and normal eyes in a Taiwan Chinese population, based on the retinal nerve fiber layer thickness measurement data from scanning laser polarimetry-variable corneal compensation (GDx VCC).
Exercise echocardiography in asymptomatic survivors of childhood cancer treated with anthracyclines: a prospective follow-up study.	Exercise echocardiography reveals abnormalities in asymptomatic childhood cancer survivors who previously have been treated with anthracyclines. We determined the added value of monitoring childhood cancer survivors with exercise echocardiography compared to monitoring with resting echocardiography alone to predict anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity. Secondary aims were to evaluate change in resting cardiac function over 10 years and to determine risk factors for late cardiotoxicity.
Clinical activity of pemphigus vulgaris relates to IgE autoantibodies against desmoglein 3.	Pemphigus vulgaris (PV) is a severe autoimmune bullous skin disease and is primarily associated with IgG against desmoglein 3 (dsg3), a desmosomal adhesion protein. In light of the recent association of autoreactive T helper (Th) 2 cells with active PV, the present study sought to relate the occurrence of Th2-regulated dsg3-specific autoantibody subtypes, i.e. IgE and IgG4, in 93 well-characterized PV patients. Patients with acute onset PV (n=37) showed the highest concentrations of serum IgE and IgG4 autoantibodies, which were significantly lower in PV patients in remission (n=14). Furthermore, there was a strong correlation between dsg3-reactive IgE and IgG4 in acute onset, but not in chronic active (n=42) or remittent patients. Additionally, intercellular IgE deposits were detected in the epidermis of acute onset PV. Thus, dsg3-specific IgE and IgG4 autoantibodies are related to acute onset disease which provides additional support to the concept that PV is a Th2-driven autoimmune disorder.
Detection of tones in reproducible narrow-band noise.	Hit and false-alarm rates were measured for detection of a 500-Hz tone target in each of ten reproducible samples of 1/3-oct bandwidth noise centered at 500 Hz for both NoS pi and NoSo conditions. The effects on hit rates of the starting phase of the target relative to individual noise samples were investigated with two target phase angles for three subjects. The major results are: (1) performance varies significantly over masker waveforms; (2) for NoS pi conditions, the effect of target-to-marker phase angle on hit rates is not significant for these narrow-band maskers; (3) for NoSo conditions, the target-to-masker phase angle has a large effect; (4) no significant correlation between NoSo performance and NoS pi performance is seen across masker waveforms. These results are generally consistent wuth previously reported results for wideband maskers [R.H. Gilkey, D.E. Robinson, and T.E. Hanna, "Effects of masker waveform and signal-to-masker phase relation on diotic and dichotic masking by reproducible noise," J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 78, 1207-1219 (1985)] with an important exception. Specifically, in the wideband experiment, significant correlation between NoSo and NoS pi performance across noise samples was found. In addition, in the wideband experiment, a small yet statistically significant effect of target-to-masker phase was observed in the NoS pi condition.
Efficient prediction methods for selecting effective siRNA sequences.	Although short interfering RNA (siRNA) has been widely used for studying gene functions in mammalian cells, its gene silencing efficacy varies markedly and there are only a few consistencies among the recently reported design rules/guidelines for selecting siRNA sequences effective for mammalian genes. Another shortcoming of the previously reported methods is that they cannot estimate the probability that a candidate sequence will silence the target gene. This paper first reviewed the recently reported siRNA design guidelines and clarified the problems concerning the guidelines. It then proposed two prediction methods-Radial Basis Function (RBF) network and decision tree learning-and their combined method for selecting effective siRNA target sequences from many possible candidate sequences. They are quite different from the previous score-based siRNA design techniques and can predict the probability that a candidate siRNA sequence will be effective. The methods imply high estimation accuracy for selecting candidate siRNA sequences.
Pentraxin 3 in amniotic fluid as a marker of intra-amniotic inflammation in women with preterm premature rupture of membranes.	To determine whether amniotic fluid levels of pentraxin 3 (PTX3) are of value in the prenatal diagnosis of acute histological chorioamnionitis in preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM).
Multiclass detection of cells in multicontrast composite images.	In this paper, we describe a framework for multiclass cell detection in composite images consisting of images obtained with three different contrast methods for transmitted light illumination (referred to as multicontrast composite images). Compared to previous multiclass cell detection results [1], the use of multicontrast composite images was found to improve the detection accuracy by introducing more discriminatory information into the system. Preprocessing multicontrast composite images with Kernel PCA was found to be superior to traditional linear PCA preprocessing, especially in difficult classification scenarios where high-order nonlinear correlations are expected to be important. Systematic study of our approach under different overlap conditions suggests that it possesses sufficient speed and accuracy for use in some practical systems.
Macrosomia is the only reliable predictor of shoulder dystocia in babies weighing 3.5 kg or more.	To determine if shoulder dystocia can be predicted in babies born weighing 3.5 kg or more.
Diagnostic performance of a prototype dual-energy chest imaging system ROC analysis.	To assess the performance of an experimental prototype dual-energy (DE) chest imaging system in comparison to digital radiography (DR) in detection and characterization of lung lesions using receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) tests.
Relative operating characteristic analysis and group modeling for tumor markers: comparison of CA 15.3, carcinoembryonic antigen, and mucin-like carcinoma-associated antigen in breast carcinoma.	Relative operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to examine the clinical applicability of 3 breast carcinoma tumor markers, CA 15.3, carcinoembryonic antigen, and mucin-like carcinoma-associated antigen. Each tumor marker was quantitated in single serum samples collected from 100 normal blood donors, 60 patients with nonmalignant diseases, 33 women at high risk for breast carcinoma, 30 patients with malignancies other than breast carcinoma, and 158 breast carcinoma patients including 67 with no evidence of disease following surgery, 46 with a tumor burden less than 5 g, and 45 with a tumor burden greater than 5 g. These were used to construct models for early diagnosis among those at high risk for breast carcinoma, the influence of nonmalignant disease on early diagnosis, discrimination of breast carcinoma from other adenocarcinomas, detection of early recurrence, and assessment of change in tumor burden. For each model ROC data permitted the unbiased selection of the most appropriate critical values based on the interaction of sensitivity and specificity. ROC analysis indicated that in practice the assays were remarkably similar. While CA 15.3 generally performed best, there was significant variation among models. Optimal marker selection can thus depend on specific clinical application. In some cases ROC identified a combination of markers as superior to any single assay, but this was not statistically significant.
Detecting novel hypermethylated genes in breast cancer benefiting from feature selection.	The aberrant hypermethylation of CpG islands in promoter regions of genes plays an important role in the onset and progression of Breast cancer. Meanwhile, it is highly associated with human genomic features. Two feature selection algorithms: t-test and CfsSubsetEval were used to obtain efficient feature subsets. We discovered 14 significant feature subsets by CfsSubsetEval, which can distinguish hypermethylated genes from control genes. As a result, 393 unconfirmed hypermethylated genes in Breast cancer were prioritized. These genes were assigned the hypermethylated scores and were supported by literature and Gene Ontology enrichment. This paper suggests that the feature subsets could be served as discriminating genomic markers to infer novel hypermethylated genes in cancer potentially.
Comparison of the second and third generation anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide antibody assays in the diagnosis of Japanese patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	The anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (CCP) antibody has become increasingly important in the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), especially for early diagnosis. The purpose of this study is to compare the diagnostic usefulness of the second and third generation anti-CCP antibody kits among Japanese patients with RA. Anti-CCP antibody titers were measured with the second generation (MESACUP CCP test, Medical and biological laboratories) and third generation (QUANTA Lite CCP3 IgG ELISA, Inova Diagnostics) kits using serum samples from 106 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients and 57 non-RA patients. Sensitivities and specificities were compared. The sensitivity and specificity of the second generation anti-CCP (anti-CCP2) kit were 88.7 and 89.5%, and those of the third generation anti-CCP (anti-CCP3) kit were 91.5 and 87.7%. Area under the receiver operating curve showed that anti-CCP2 and anti-CCP3 had similar diagnostic performances. Diagnostic performance of the anti-CCP3 assay was comparable with the anti-CCP2 assay in Japanese patients with RA.
Fast segmentation of bone in CT images using 3D adaptive thresholding.	Fast bone segmentation is often important in computer-aided medical systems. Thresholding-based techniques have been widely used to identify the object of interest (bone) against dark backgrounds. However, the darker areas that are often present in bone tissue may adversely affect the results obtained using existing thresholding-based segmentation methods. We propose an automatic, fast, robust and accurate method for the segmentation of bone using 3D adaptive thresholding. An initial segmentation is first performed to partition the image into bone and non-bone classes, followed by an iterative process of 3D correlation to update voxel classification. This iterative process significantly improves the thresholding performance. A post-processing step of 3D region growing is used to extract the required bone region. The proposed algorithm can achieve sub-voxel accuracy very rapidly. In our experiments, the segmentation of a CT image set required on average less than 10s per slice. This execution time can be further reduced by optimizing the iterative convergence process.
The autism--tics, AD/HD and other comorbidities inventory (A-TAC): further validation of a telephone interview for epidemiological research.	Reliable, valid, and easy-to-administer instruments to identify possible caseness and to provide proxies for clinical diagnoses are needed in epidemiological research on child and adolescent mental health.The aim of this study is to provide further validity data for a parent telephone interview focused on Autism--Tics, Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (AD/HD), and other Comorbidities (A-TAC), for which reliability and preliminary validation data have been previously reported.
Reduction of unique noise in the psychophysics of hearing by Group Operating Characteristic analysis.	Group Operating Characteristic (GOC) analysis can be used to reduce the effects of unique noise on data from psychophysical experiments on hearing. Unique noise can come from physiological sources such as heartbeat and breathing and from other internal sources such as criterion variability, inattention, and faulty memory. The theory of GOC analysis is described and applied to the results of frequency discrimination experiments with human, pigeon, and simulated observers. The method yields relatively unattenuated measures of sensitivity, recovers Receiver Operating Characteristic curves from noisy choice data, and estimates the relative magnitudes of unique and common noise.
Mean platelet volume on admission correlates with impaired response to thrombolysis in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction.	Mean platelets volume (MPV) has been shown to correlate with impaired reperfusion and increased mortality in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) treated with primary precutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). We aimed to study whether the same association exists in STEMI patients treated with thrombolysis. Included in the study were STEMI patients receiving thrombolysis. Thrombolysis failure was defined as a need for rescue precutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), in-hospital mortality, unplanned PCI during hospitalization or complete occlusion of the culprit coronary artery in a follow-up angiography. MPV levels were compared between patients with failed or successful thrombolysis. Of the 122 patients, 30 had failed thrombolysis while the other 92 fulfilled the criteria for successful treatment. There were no significant differences in demographic or clinical baseline characteristics of the two groups. Mean MPV was significantly higher in patients with failed thrombolysis compared to patients with successful treatment (9.2 +/- 1.1fl and 8.7 +/- 1.0fl respectively, p = 0.019 in multivariate analysis). The prevalence of thrombolysis failure was significantly higher in patients with MPV > 8.6 fl compared to those with MPV </= 8.6 fl (31.8% and 16% respectively, p = 0.048 in multivariate analysis). It appears that higher MPV correlates with thrombolysis failure in patients presenting with STEMI. MPV may be used as an adjunctive readily available factor for assessing thrombolysis outcome upon admission.
Longitudinal peak strain detects a smaller risk area than visual assessment of wall motion in acute myocardial infarction.	Opening of an occluded infarct related artery reduces infarct size and improves survival in acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). In this study we performed tissue Doppler analysis (peak strain, displacement, mitral annular movement (MAM)) and compared with visual assessment for the study of the correlation of measurements of global, regional and segmental function with final infarct size and transmurality. In addition, myocardial risk area was determined and a prediction sought for the development of infarct transmurality >or=50%.
Lack of correlation between a self-administered subjective GERD questionnaire and pathologic GERD diagnosed by 24-h esophageal pH monitoring.	Self-reported reflux symptoms do not always correspond to pathologic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). We evaluated whether GERD-related symptoms in the self-reported Mayo-GERD questionnaire (GERDQ) were correlated with current gold standard definitions of pathologic GERD.
The validity of the Dutch K10 and extended K10 screening scales for depressive and anxiety disorders.	The aim of this study was to validate the Dutch version of the Kessler-10 (K10) as well as an extended version (EK10) in screening for depressive and anxiety disorders in primary care. Data are from 1607 participants (18 through 65 years, 68.8% female) of the Netherlands Study of Depression and Anxiety (NESDA), recruited from 65 general practitioners. Participants completed the K10, extended with five additional questions focusing on core anxiety symptoms, and were evaluated with the WHO Composite International Diagnostic Interview (CIDI lifetime version 2.1) to assess DSM-IV disorders (major depressive disorder, dysthymia, generalized anxiety disorder, social phobia, panic disorder, agoraphobia). Reliability (Cronbach's alpha) of the Dutch K10 was 0.94. Based on Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC) analysis, the area under the curve (AUC) for the K10 for any depressive and/or anxiety disorder was found to be 0.87. The extended questions on the EK10 significantly improved the detection of anxiety disorders in particular. With a cut-off point of 20, the K10 reached a sensitivity of 0.80 and a specificity of 0.81 for any depressive and/or anxiety disorder. For the EK10, a cut-off point of 20 and/or at least one positive answer on the additional questions provided a sensitivity of 0.90 and a specificity of 0.75 for detecting any depressive and/or anxiety disorder. The Dutch version of the K10 is appropriate for screening depressive disorders in primary care, while the EK10 is preferred in screening for both depressive and anxiety disorders.
Detrended fluctuation analysis predicts successful defibrillation for out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation cardiac arrest.	Repeated failed shocks for ventricular fibrillation (VF) in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OOHCA) can worsen the outcome. It is very important to rapidly distinguish between early and late VF. We hypothesised that VF waveform analysis based on detrended fluctuation analysis (DFA) can help predict successful defibrillation.
Combining MR imaging, positron-emission tomography, and CSF biomarkers in the diagnosis and prognosis of Alzheimer disease.	Different biomarkers for AD may potentially be complementary in diagnosis and prognosis of AD. Our aim was to combine MR imaging, FDG-PET, and CSF biomarkers in the diagnostic classification and 2-year prognosis of MCI and AD, by examining the following: 1) which measures are most sensitive to diagnostic status, 2) to what extent the methods provide unique information in diagnostic classification, and 3) which measures are most predictive of clinical decline.
Radiographic changes in algodystrophy of the hand.	It is not certain to what extent the radiographic features of post-traumatic algodystrophy can be differentiated from disuse atrophy following trauma. A semi-quantitative scoring system has been devised, grading the dominant features seen on radiography in both conditions following Colles' fracture. The technique had intra- and inter-observer errors of 14% and 17% respectively. When applied prospectively 7 weeks after Colles' fractures, there was a significantly greater score in patients with algodystrophy (p less than 0.001) than those without. Analysis of the scores was performed to identify a score for the optimal identification of algodystrophy. At a score of four or greater, 87.5% of patients with algodystrophy were positively identified with a positive predictive value of 83%. It is suggested that use of this scoring system will aid in the early diagnosis of algodystrophy.
Stationary wavelet packet transform and dependent laplacian bivariate shrinkage estimator for array-CGH data smoothing.	Array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) has merged as a highly efficient technique for the detection of chromosomal imbalances. Characteristics of these DNA copy number aberrations provide the insights into cancer, and they are useful for the diagnostic and therapy strategies. In this article, we propose a statistical bivariate model for aCGH data in the stationary wavelet packet transform (SWPT) and apply this bivariate shrinkage estimator into the aCGH smoothing study. Because our new dependent Laplacian bivariate shrinkage estimator covers the dependency between wavelet coefficients and the shift invariant SWPT results include both low- and high-frequency information, our dependent Laplacian bivariate shrinkage estimator based SWPT method (named as SWPT-LaBi) has fundamental advantages to solve aCGH data smoothing problem compared to other methods. In our experiments, two standard evaluation methods, the Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) and the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve, are calculated to demonstrate the performance of our method. In all experimental results, our SWPT-LaBi method outperforms the previous most commonly used aCGH smoothing algorithms on both synthetic data and real data. Meantime, we also propose a new synthetic data generation method for aCGH smoothing algorithms evaluation. In our new data model, the noise from real aCGH data is extracted and used to improve synthetic data generation.
Development and alarm threshold evaluation of a side rail integrated sensor technology for the prevention of falls.	Patient falls constitute a serious problem both for the persons fallen and for the institutions involved. Bed-exit alarm systems are used to reduce patient falls. Existing bed-exit alarm systems have several disadvantages depending on the technology used. As in "Evaluation of Bed-Exit Alarms" stated, restless, light weighted, uncooperative, incontinent and confused patients require different systems. The aim of this work is to present the research and development process of the integrated, universally applicable BUCINATOR bed-exit-alarm system.
Gait symmetry and regularity in transfemoral amputees assessed by trunk accelerations.	The aim of this study was to evaluate a method based on a single accelerometer for the assessment of gait symmetry and regularity in subjects wearing lower limb prostheses.
Prediction of lymph node metastases in NSCLC. Three dimensional anatomical parameters do not substitute FDG-PET-CT.	To distinguish between benign and malignant mediastinal lymph nodes in patients with NSCLC by comparing 2D and semi-automated 3D measurements in FDG-PET-CT.
Transcranial sonography for diagnosis of Parkinson's disease.	In idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) transcranial sonography (TCS) represents an alternative diagnostic method to verify clinical diagnosis. Although the phenomenon of an increased echogenicity of the Substantia nigra (SN) is well known this method is still not widly used in the diagnostic workup. Until now reliability of this method is still a matter of debate, partly because data only existed from a few laboratories using the same ultrasound machine. Therefore our study was conducted to test the reliability of this method by using a different ultrasound device and examining a large population of control and IPD subjects by two examiners to calculate interobserver reliability.
Apolipoproteins in the discrimination of atherosclerotic burden and cardiac function in patients with stable coronary artery disease.	To compare the performance of apolipoproteins (Apo) and oxidized LDL against routine clinical lipid profiles in the discrimination of atherosclerotic burden and cardiac function in stable coronary artery disease (CAD) patients.
Cerebral gliomas: diffusional kurtosis imaging analysis of microstructural differences.	To characterize the non-Gaussian diffusion patterns of cerebral glioma microstructure with respect to the different glioma grades by using a new method called diffusional kurtosis (DK) imaging.
Applying diagnosis and pharmacy-based risk models to predict pharmacy use in Aragon, Spain: the impact of a local calibration.	In the financing of a national health system, where pharmaceutical spending is one of the main cost containment targets, predicting pharmacy costs for individuals and populations is essential for budget planning and care management. Although most efforts have focused on risk adjustment applying diagnostic data, the reliability of this information source has been questioned in the primary care setting. We sought to assess the usefulness of incorporating pharmacy data into claims-based predictive models (PMs). Developed primarily for the U.S. health care setting, a secondary objective was to evaluate the benefit of a local calibration in order to adapt the PMs to the Spanish health care system.
Value of tumor size as a prognostic variable in colorectal cancer: a critical reappraisal.	Vertical tumor growth, reflected by T classification, represents the most important prognostic variable in colorectal cancer. Our study aimed to investigate the impact of tumor size, particularly the maximum tumor diameter, on outcome of affected patients.
Predicting neonatal hyperbilirubinemia using first day serum bilirubin levels.	To determine the first day total serum bilirubin (TSB) value which will predict with reasonable accuracy, neonates likely to develop subsequent significant hyperbilirubinemia.
Application of the drowning index to actual drowning cases.	The drowning index (DI) was devised to diagnose drowning deaths, and is the weight ratio of the lungs and pleural effusion to the spleen. Among drowning (94 cases), mechanical asphyxia (47 cases), and acute cardiac (42 cases) deaths, within 2 weeks postmortem we compared six markers, the weight of each lung, pleural effusion weight, total weight of the lungs and pleural effusion, spleen weight, heart weight, and the DI. Statistical analysis revealed that the total weight was heavier, while spleen weight was lighter, and the DI was significantly larger in the drowning group (p<0.05). We examined the relation between the postmortem time and these markers. We divided 94 drowning cases into three groups according to the postmortem duration, group A (0-3 days; 43 cases), group B (3-7; 29 cases), and group C (7-14; 22 cases). The cut-off point of the DI was analyzed using the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. As a result, the DI cut-off point was 14.1 in cases within two postmortem weeks. Drowning is still a difficult autopsy diagnosis, but in our experience, DI is a valuable indicator.
Detecting faked psychopathology: a comparison of two tests to detect malingered psychopathology using a simulation design.	Malingered psychopathology has the potential to be a costly social problem and there is a need for studies that compare the malingering detection capabilities of tests of psychopathology. This study investigated the capacity of two measures to detect simulated psychopathology. Forty-one first-year psychology students were randomly allocated to experimental groups that included malingering and control conditions. Analogue malingerers were given a financial incentive to simulate believable psychological impairment. Controls received standardised test instructions and the prize incentive, contingent on good effort. In a between-group simulation design, group differences on the Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) and the revised Symptom Checklist-90 (SCL-90-R) were assessed. Group comparisons revealed elevation of the majority of clinical index scores among malingerers and a consistent pattern of results across tests. Analysis of the test operating characteristics of the malingering indices for these measures revealed superior detection of simulated malingering using the PAI, particularly Rogers' Discriminant Function, although classification accuracy of all malingering indexes was improved when adjusted cut-offs were used. Overall, results from this study demonstrate the vulnerability of the PAI and (SCL-90-R) to simulated psychopathology, but also the capacity of these measures to detect such performance when specific indexes are used.
Cancerous breast lesions on dynamic contrast-enhanced MR images: computerized characterization for image-based prognostic markers.	To assess the performance of computer-extracted dynamic contrast material-enhanced (DCE) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging kinetic and morphologic features in the differentiation of invasive versus noninvasive breast lesions and metastatic versus nonmetastatic breast lesions.
Automatic classification of transient ischaemic and transient non-ischaemic heart-rate related ST segment deviation episodes in ambulatory ECG records.	In ambulatory ECG records, besides transient ischaemic ST segment deviation episodes, there are also transient non-ischaemic heart-rate related ST segment deviation episodes present, which appear only due to a change in heart rate and thus complicate automatic detection of true ischaemic episodes. The goal of this work was to automatically classify these two types of episodes. The tested features to classify the ST segment deviation episodes were changes of heart rate, changes of the Mahalanobis distance of the first five Karhunen-Love transform (KLT) coefficients of the QRS complex, changes of time-domain morphologic parameters of the ST segment and changes of the Legendre orthonormal polynomial coefficients of the ST segment. We chose Legendre basis functions because they best fit typical shapes of the ST segment morphology, thus allowing direct insight into the ST segment morphology changes through the feature space. The classification was performed with the help of decision trees. We tested the classification method using all records of the Long-Term ST Database on all ischaemic and all non-ischaemic heart-rate related deviation episodes according to annotation protocol B. In order to predict the real-world performance of the classification we used second-order aggregate statistics, gross and average statistics, and the bootstrap method. We obtained the best performance when we combined the heart-rate features, the Mahalanobis distance and the Legendre orthonormal polynomial coefficient features, with average sensitivity of 98.1% and average specificity of 85.2%.
The validity of ultrasonographic assessment in cubital tunnel syndrome: the value of a cubital-to-humeral nerve area ratio (CHR) combined with morphologic features.	Diagnosis of a typical idiopathic cubital tunnel syndrome (CuTS) is straight forward but the work-up of mild forms is clinically challenging. The diagnostic value of high-resolution ultrasound (HRUS) relying solely on nerve measurements is doubtful. Additional textural analysis of the nerve may possibly overcome this drawback. Thirty-eight prospectively enrolled patients with idiopathic CuTS and 23 healthy volunteers underwent standardized HRUS. A cubital-to-humeral nerve area ratio (CHR) was calculated and the texture of the most swollen nerve segment assessed. CHR was significantly different among patients and volunteers (p<0.001) but with a marked overlap. Combination of at least partial inner fascicular masking plus a CHR>1.4 showed a positive linear coherence with idiopathic CuTS at a specificity>95% and a PPV>90%. Thus, the combined textural analysis and CHR calculation seems a powerful tool for the sonographic diagnosis of idiopathic CuTS.
Classifying household and locomotive activities using a triaxial accelerometer.	The purpose of this study was to develop a new algorithm for classifying physical activity into either locomotive or household activities using a triaxial accelerometer. Sixty-six volunteers (31 men and 35 women) participated in this study and were separated randomly into validation and cross-validation groups. All subjects performed 12 physical activities (personal computer work, laundry, dishwashing, moving a small load, vacuuming, slow walking, normal walking, brisk walking, normal walking while carrying a bag, jogging, ascending stairs and descending stairs) while wearing a triaxial accelerometer in a controlled laboratory setting. Each of the three signals from the triaxial accelerometer was passed through a second-order Butterworth high-pass filter to remove the gravitational acceleration component from the signal. The cut-off frequency was set at 0.7 Hz based on frequency analysis of the movements conducted. The ratios of unfiltered to filtered total acceleration (TAU/TAF) and filtered vertical to horizontal acceleration (VAF/HAF) were calculated to determine the cut-off value for classification of household and locomotive activities. When the TAU/TAF discrimination cut-off value derived from the validation group was applied to the cross-validation group, the average percentage of correct discrimination was 98.7%. When the VAF/HAF value similarly derived was applied to the cross-validation group, there was relatively high accuracy but the lowest percentage of correct discrimination was 63.6% (moving a small load). These findings suggest that our new algorithm using the TAU/TAF cut-off value can accurately classify household and locomotive activities.
Improved detection of hepatic metastases from pancreatic cancer using periodically rotated overlapping parallel lines with enhanced reconstruction (PROPELLER) technique after SPIO administration.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the detection of hepatic metastases from the pancreatic cancer using different MR imaging methods, including superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO)-enhanced fat-saturated T2-weighted imaging with periodically rotated overlapping parallel lines with enhanced reconstruction (PROPELLER) technique.
T cells co-producing Mycobacterium tuberculosis-specific type 1 cytokines for the diagnosis of latent tuberculosis.	Patients treated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha-antagonizing medication are at increased risk of developing active tuberculosis (TB), brought about mainly by reactivation of latent infection. Thus, screening for latent TB infection (LTBI) prior to administration of anti-TNF-alpha-therapy is required. For a long time, the tuberculin skin test (TST) was the only means of diagnosing LTBI, however, interferon-gamma-release assays (IGRAs), are promising new tools. Fifty two patients with dermatological disorders were included prior to implementation of anti-TNF-alpha therapy. Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB)-specific cytokine production, including interferon (IFN)-gamma, TNF-alpha, interleukin (IL)-2 and IL-10, was measured in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells by cytokine flow cytometry following stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) with purified protein derivative (PPD) and early secretion antigenic target (ESAT)-6. Simultaneously, a TST was administered and 11 were TST-positive. Generally, MTB-specific IFN-gamma produced by CD4+ T cells correlated well with TST results. CD4+ T cells co-producing specific IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha after ESAT-6 stimulation showed the highest overall agreement with the TST (Kappa [kappa] = 0.87). Each single cytokine displayed individual patterns, the expression of IFN-gamma, however, showed the highest concordance with the TST (kappa = 0.82). This suggests that the enumeration of MTB-specific CD4+ T cells might introduce greater specificity for the diagnosis of latent TB, compared to the TST.
Creation of a reflecting formula to determine a patient's indication for undergoing total knee arthroplasty.	The aim of this study was to develop, from patients' characteristics and radiography, a formula reflecting the decision for total knee arthroplasty (TKA) in patients with a painful osteoarthritic knee.
Assays for thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor antibodies employing different ligands and ligand partners may have similar sensitivity and specificity but are not interchangeable.	The best biochemical marker of Graves' disease (GD) is the presence in serum of autoantibodies to the thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor (hTSHR-Ab). The aim of this study was to evaluate the performances of two sensitive hTSHR-Ab assays with a specific focus on the clinical importance of differences in results. Both assays are competitive in nature but employ quite different types of ligands. In the "M22-pTSHR" assay, hTSHR-Ab competes with a labeled monoclonal antibody (M22*) against the thyrotropin (TSH)-receptor for binding to porcine TSH receptors. In the "bTSH-rhTSHR" assay, hTSHR-Ab competes with labeled bovine TSH for binding to recombinant human TSH receptors.
Computer-aided diagnosis of lung nodules on CT scans: ROC study of its effect on radiologists' performance.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) on radiologists' estimates of the likelihood of malignancy of lung nodules on computed tomographic (CT) imaging.
Recognition memory: adding a response deadline eliminates recollection but spares familiarity.	A current controversy in memory research concerns whether recognition is supported by distinct processes of familiarity and recollection, or instead by a single process wherein familiarity and recollection reflect weak and strong memories, respectively. Recent studies using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses in an animal model have shown that manipulations of the memory demands can eliminate the contribution of familiarity while sparing recollection. Here it is shown that a different manipulation, specifically the addition of a response deadline in recognition testing, results in the opposite performance pattern, eliminating the contribution of recollection while sparing that of familiarity. This dissociation, combined with the earlier findings, demonstrates that familiarity and recollection are differentially sensitive to specific memory demands, strongly supporting the dual process view.
Blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels at admission for mortality risk assessment in patients with acute coronary syndromes.	To compare the prognostic significance of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) versus creatinine levels for estimating the risk of death in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS).
Accuracy of clinical signs, SEP, and EEG in predicting outcome of hypoxic coma: a meta-analysis.	Accurate prediction of neurologic outcome after hypoxic coma is important. Previous systematic reviews have not used summary statistics to summarize and formally compare the accuracy of different prognostic tests. We therefore used summary receiver operating characteristic curve (SROC) and cluster regression methods to compare motor and pupillary responses with sensory evoked potential (SEP) and EEG in predicting outcome after hypoxic coma.
Complement component 3: an assessment of association with AMD and analysis of gene-gene and gene-environment interactions in a Northern Irish cohort.	A non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in complement component 3 has been shown to increase the risk of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). We assess its effect on AMD risk in a Northern Irish sample, test for gene-gene and gene-environment interaction, and review a risk prediction model.
Diagnostic value of ischemia-modified albumin in patients with suspected acute coronary syndrome.	Ischemia-modified albumin (IMA) has been proposed as a useful rule-out marker for the diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) in the emergency department. This study evaluated the ability of IMA to predict the acute myocardial infarction (AMI) diagnosis in a population of chest pain patients.
Assessment of myocardial viability at dobutamine echocardiography by deformation analysis using tissue velocity and speckle-tracking.	Comparison of myocardial tissue-velocity imaging (TVI) and speckle-tracking echocardiography (STE) for prediction of viability at dobutamine echocardiography (DbE).
Long-term prognostic value of coronary flow reserve in patients without significant left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis: results from the SZEGED Study]	Coronary flow reserve (CFR) measured by pulsed Doppler echocardiography is a useful hemodynamic index to evaluate coronary microcirculatory (dys)function in the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD), in the absence of macrovascular lesions.
ZAP-70, IgVh, and cytogenetics for assessing prognosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	New prognostic factors such as IgVh mutational status, ZAP-70 protein expression and cytogenetic abnormalities have shown to offer important prognostic information for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Our aim was to evaluate the optimal cut-off for IgVh mutational status, ZAP-70 expression and cytogenetic abnormalities in association with disease progression defined as the need for treatment within 3~years from diagnosis in 170 patients with B-CLL.
Enoxaparin anticoagulation monitoring in the catheterization laboratory using a new bedside test.	This study evaluated the ability of the bedside test Hemochron Jr. Hemonox (International Technidyne Corporation, Edison, New Jersey) to identify patients with insufficient anti-Xa activity level in the catheterization laboratory.
Modified serum profiles of inflammatory and vasoconstrictive factors in patients with emotional stress-induced acute coronary syndrome during World Cup Soccer 2006.	We sought to assess whether emotional stress-induced acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is mediated by increased inflammatory and vasoconstrictive mediators.
Pattern electroretinogram and psychophysical tests of visual function for discriminating between healthy and glaucoma eyes.	To compare the diagnostic accuracy of the pattern electroretinogram (pattern ERG) to that of standard automated perimetry (SAP), short-wavelength automated perimetry (SWAP), and frequency-doubling technology (FDT) perimetry for discriminating between healthy and glaucomatous eyes.
EuroSCORE performance in valve surgery: a meta-analysis.	The European System for Cardiac Operative Risk Evaluation (EuroSCORE) was developed to predict immediate outcomes after adult cardiac operations, but less than 30% of the cases used to develop this score were valve procedures. We studied EuroSCORE performance in valve procedures.
Cambridge-Miami score for intestinal transplantation preoperative risk assessment: initial development and validation.	Preoperative quantification of survival after transplantation would assist in assessing patients. We have developed a preliminary preoperative scoring system, called the Cambridge-Miami (CaMi) score, for transplantation of the small intestine either alone or as a composite graft.
Evaluation of calprotectin level in intestinal content as an early marker for graft rejection.	The diagnosis of rejection after intestinal transplantation is still performed by endoscopic biopsy monitoring. Less invasive diagnostic procedures are desirable, although they are not available so far. Calprotectin, a stable cytosolic granulocyte protein, which previously was used as a marker of inflammatory processes, has been proposed to be a biochemical marker for rejection. The aim of the present work was to analyze the concordance between calprotectin levels in intestinal content and the presence of graft rejection after small bowel transplantation.
The hospital standardised mortality ratio: a powerful tool for Dutch hospitals to assess their quality of care?	To use the hospital standardised mortality ratio (HSMR), as a tool for Dutch hospitals to analyse their death rates by comparing their risk-adjusted mortality with the national average.
Hepatic steatosis (fatty liver disease) in asymptomatic adults identified by unenhanced low-dose CT.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the prevalence of hepatic steatosis in an asymptomatic U.S. adult population using attenuation values at unenhanced CT as the reference standard. We also assessed the utility of known clinical risk factors for diagnosis.
Differentiation of prostate cancer from normal prostate tissue: role of hotspots in pharmacokinetic MRI and histologic evaluation.	The purpose of this study was to investigate whether analysis of voxels with the highest perfusion and blood volume (hotspots) within a whole region affected by prostate cancer can improve differentiation of cancerous and normal prostate tissue at pharmacokinetic MRI.
Early prediction of histopathological tumor response to preoperative chemotherapy by Tc-99m MIBI imaging in bone and soft tissue sarcomas.	Tc-99m-methoxyisobutylisonitrile (MIBI) accumulates in only viable cells. In patients with bone and soft tissue sarcomas, preoperative chemotherapy is essential and the early prediction of the tumor response to chemotherapy would be beneficial for the planning of treatment strategy. The purpose of this study was to assess whether the change of Tc-99m-MIBI images from the prechemotherapy state to the early to midportion of chemotherapy can predict the final histopathological tumor response as accurately as the change of imaging after completion of chemotherapy.
Do radial arterial pressure curves have diagnostic validity for identify severe aortic stenosis?	A pulsus parvus et tardus of the carotid artery, i.e., a small weak pulse with a delayed systolic peak, is a well-recognized clinical finding of aortic stenosis (AS). However, the diagnostic value of radial arterial pressure curves has not been specifically investigated. In this study, we investigated whether the radial arterial curves of patients with AS had distinguishable characteristics.
Prediction of tumor response to neoadjuvant therapy in patients with esophageal cancer with use of 18F FDG PET: a systematic review.	To systematically review the accuracy of fluorine 18 ((18)F) fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) in the prediction of tumor response to neoadjuvant therapy in patients with esophageal cancer.
Cost-effectiveness of breast MR imaging and screen-film mammography for screening BRCA1 gene mutation carriers.	To evaluate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of screening strategies in which MR imaging and screen-film mammography were used, alone and in combination, in women with BRCA1 mutations.
CT of sclerotic bone lesions: imaging features differentiating tuberous sclerosis complex with lymphangioleiomyomatosis from sporadic lymphangioleiomymatosis.	To determine if sclerotic bone lesions evident at body computed tomography (CT) are of value as a diagnostic criterion of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and in the differentiation of TSC with lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) from sporadic LAM.
Increased liver stiffness in alcoholic liver disease: differentiating fibrosis from steatohepatitis.	To test if inflammation also interferes with liver stiffness (LS) assessment in alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and to provide a clinical algorithm for reliable fibrosis assessment in ALD by FibroScan (FS).
The ability of pleth variability index to predict the hemodynamic effects of positive end-expiratory pressure in mechanically ventilated patients under general anesthesia.	Pleth variability index (PVI) is a new algorithm allowing automated and continuous monitoring of respiratory variations in the pulse oximetry plethysmographic waveform amplitude. PVI can predict fluid responsiveness noninvasively in mechanically ventilated patients during general anesthesia. We hypothesized that PVI could predict the hemodynamic effects of 10 cm H2O positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP).
Measures to summarize and compare the predictive capacity of markers.	The predictive capacity of a marker in a population can be described using the population distribution of risk (Huang et al. 2007; Pepe et al. 2008a; Stern 2008). Virtually all standard statistical summaries of predictability and discrimination can be derived from it (Gail and Pfeiffer 2005). The goal of this paper is to develop methods for making inference about risk prediction markers using summary measures derived from the risk distribution. We describe some new clinically motivated summary measures and give new interpretations to some existing statistical measures. Methods for estimating these summary measures are described along with distribution theory that facilitates construction of confidence intervals from data. We show how markers and, more generally, how risk prediction models, can be compared using clinically relevant measures of predictability. The methods are illustrated by application to markers of lung function and nutritional status for predicting subsequent onset of major pulmonary infection in children suffering from cystic fibrosis. Simulation studies show that methods for inference are valid for use in practice.
Digital luminescence mammography. Early clinical experience.	In a pilot study, mammography using digital luminescence was compared to conventional film-screen mammography regarding detectability of micro-calcifications and malignant tumors. The data processing algorithms were designed by the manufacturer to produce an image with characteristics close to conventional mammograms. Three observers reviewed 99 digital and their corresponding conventional mammograms. There was no difference in the detectability of micro-calcifications between digital and conventional mammography. On the digital mammograms, however, artifacts were misjudged as micro-calcifications. In an ROC analysis regarding malignant breast tumors, no significant difference was found between the 2 systems. There was a slight, but not significant, difference between the results of different observers regarding the digital system.
Affirmative actions: can the discriminant accuracy of a test be determined in the face of selection bias?	Clinical estimates of test efficacy can be distorted by the differential referral of positive and negative test responders for outcome verification. Accordingly, a series of computer simulations was performed to quantify the effects of various degrees of this selection bias on the observed true-positive rate, false-positive rate, and discriminant accuracy of a hypothetical test. The error in observed true- and false-positive rates was positive with respect to diagnosis, and negative with respect to prognosis. The magnitude of error was highly correlated with the magnitude of bias associated with the test response (primary selection bias), but not with the magnitude of bias associated with additional independent factors (secondary selection bias). Mathematical correction for preferential referral based on the test response using a previously published algorithm completely removed the correlation with primary selection bias for both diagnosis and prognosis. Although a significant correlation with secondary selection bias persisted at intermediate base rates, its magnitude was small. Discriminant accuracy was assessed in terms of area under a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. Biased values of true- and false-positive rates were distributed along the curve defined by the actual true- and false-positive rates of the test for both diagnosis and prognosis. As a result, the areas under ROC curves calculated from biased true- and false-positive rates were within 2% of the areas calculated from the actual rates. Only when the primary and secondary observations were independent with respect to one outcome and dependent with respect to the other outcome did a systematic error appear in ROC area.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Enhancing and evaluating diagnostic accuracy.	Techniques that may enhance diagnostic accuracy in clinical settings were tested in the context of mammography. Statistical information about the relevant features among those visible in a mammogram and about their relative importances in the diagnosis of breast cancer was the basis of two decision aids for radiologists: a checklist that guides the radiologist in assigning a scale value to each significant feature of the images of a particular case, and a computer program that merges those scale values optimally to estimate a probability of malignancy. A test set of approximately 150 proven cases (including normals and benign and malignant lesions) was interpreted by six radiologists, first in their usual manner and later with the decision aids. The enhancing effect of these feature-analytic techniques was analyzed across subsets of cases that were restricted progressively to more and more difficult cases, where difficulty was defined in terms of the radiologists' judgements in the standard reading condition. Accuracy in both standard and enhanced conditions decreased regularly and substantially as case difficulty increased, but differentially, such that the enhancement effect grew regularly and substantially. For the most difficult case sets, the observed increases in accuracy translated into an increase of about 0.15 in sensitivity (true-positive proportion) for a selected specificity (true-negative proportion) of 0.85 or a similar increase in specificity for a selected sensitivity of 0.85. That measured accuracy can depend on case-set difficulty to different degrees for two diagnostic approaches has general implications for evaluation in clinical medicine. Comparative, as well as absolute, assessments of diagnostic performances--for example, of alternative imaging techniques--may be distorted by inadequate treatments of this experimental variable. Subset analysis, as defined and illustrated here, can be useful in alleviating the problem.
The value of MCA, CA 15-3, CEA and CA-125 for discrimination between metastatic breast cancer and adenocarcinoma of other primary sites.	MCA, CA 15-3, CEA and CA 125 were determined in the serum of 49 patients with metastatic breast cancer and 38 patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of other primary sites. By using the 99th percentile of the normal value distribution as the cut-off point, the positive predictive value (PV+) was found to be 85% (95% CI 76-94) for MCA, and 71% (95% CI 61-81) for CA 15-3. When receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) curves were constructed, the PV+ for CA 15-3 was increased to 82% (95% CI 72-92), using 60 U ml-1 as the cut-off point. With the exception of two patients who had a slightly elevated MCA, MCA and CA 15-3 identified the same patients with breast cancer. By combining a positive MCA or CA 15-3 with a negative CEA and CA 125, further improvement of the PV+ could be achieved; 100% (95% CI 91-100). We conclude that MCA and CA 15-3 may play a useful role in discrimination between patients with metastatic breast cancer and those with adenocarcinoma of other primary sites.
Usefulness of monitoring platelet function by multiple electrode aggregometry in primary coronary artery bypass surgery.	Antiplatelet therapy commonly is used for the prevention of cardiovascular complications but increases the risk of perioperative bleeding. Multiple-electrode aggregometry (MEA) was investigated for monitoring platelet inhibition by acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) and clopidogrel in patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery with regard to clinical outcome as measured by postoperative blood loss and transfusion requirements.
Risk factors contributing to the development of carboplatin-related delayed hypersensitivity reactions in Japanese patients with gynecologic cancers.	The rate of hypersensitivity reactions in patients receiving carboplatin (CBDCA) has been reported to increase after multiple doses of the agent. However, risk factors for these onsets have not been well described. In this study, we investigated the contribution of the reported risk factors to the onset of CBDCA-related delayed hypersensitivity reactions.
Validation of Pediatric Index of Mortality-2 scoring system in a pediatric intensive care unit, Barbados.	This study evaluated the outcome of patients in a pediatric intensive care unit (ICU) of a developing country applying Pediatric Index of Mortality (PIM) version-2 scoring system. A total of 163 consecutive patients were prospectively studied. Data included demographics, diagnoses at admission, PIM-2 score, the duration of ICU stay and hospital outcome. Predicted mortality and standardized mortality ratio (SMR) were calculated. Respiratory and neurological illnesses were the main admission diagnoses. The mean length of stay was 5.4 [95% Confidence Intervals (CI): 4-6.9] days. The mean predicted mortality was 6.2% (95% CI: 4.3-8.1); the observed mortality rate was 5.5%, the SMR being 0.89. Hosmer-Lemeshow analysis calibrated PIM-2 for the case mix [(2) = 5.64 (df = 7), p = 0.58]. The area under the ROC curve was 0.82 (95% CI: 0.72-0.92) showing a good discriminant function. Performance of the pediatric ICU in Barbados is comparable to that of developed world by risk-adjusted outcome evaluation.
Development of a model-based clinical sepsis biomarker for critically ill patients.	Sepsis occurs frequently in the intensive care unit (ICU) and is a leading cause of admission, mortality, and cost. Treatment guidelines recommend early intervention, however positive blood culture results may take up to 48 h. Insulin sensitivity (S(I)) is known to decrease with worsening condition and could thus be used to aid diagnosis. Some glycemic control protocols are able to accurately identify insulin sensitivity in real-time. Hourly model-based insulin sensitivity S(I) values were calculated from glycemic control data of 36 patients with sepsis. The hourly S(I) is compared to the hourly sepsis score (ss) for these patients (ss=0-4 for increasing severity). A multivariate clinical biomarker was also developed to maximize the discrimination between different ss groups. Receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curves for severe sepsis (ss  2) are created for both S(I) and the multivariate clinical biomarker. Insulin sensitivity as a sepsis biomarker for diagnosis of severe sepsis achieves a 50% sensitivity, 76% specificity, 4.8% positive predictive value (PPV), and 98.3% negative predictive value (NPV) at an S(I) cut-off value of 0.00013 L/mU/min. Multivariate clinical biomarker combining S(I), temperature, heart rate, respiratory rate, blood pressure, and their respective hourly rates of change achieves 73% sensitivity, 80% specificity, 8.4% PPV, and 99.2% NPV. Thus, the multivariate clinical biomarker provides an effective real-time negative predictive diagnostic for severe sepsis. Examination of both inter- and intra-patient statistical distribution of this biomarker and sepsis score shows potential avenues to improve the positive predictive value.
Elevated serum matrix metalloproteinase 7 levels predict poor prognosis after radical prostatectomy.	Elevated matrix metalloproteinase-7 (MMP-7) tissue expression and serum concentration have been shown to be associated with cancer progression and metastasis. The aim of our study was to assess the prognostic value of preoperative circulating MMP-7 levels in serum samples of patients with clinically localized prostate cancer. Furthermore, we compared the serum MMP-7 levels between patients with organ confined and metastatic prostate cancer. MMP-7 levels were measured in 93 patients with localized prostate cancer, 13 patients with distant bone metastasis and in sera of 19 controls using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The results were compared to the clinical follow-up data. We did not find any significant difference in MMP-7 serum levels between patients and controls (p = 0.268). Circulating MMP-7 serum concentration was significantly elevated in patients with distant metastasis (p < 0.001). For the detection of distant prostate cancer metastasis, using a cut-off value of 3.7 ng/ml, a specificity of 69% and a sensitivity of 92% were observed. Multivariate analysis identified high MMP-7 serum concentration as an independent risk factor for prostate cancer-related death both in a preoperative and a postoperative model (p = 0.003 and 0.018, respectively). Furthermore, the evaluation of predictive models revealed that addition of serum MMP-7 levels to the preoperatively available predictors improves prognostic accuracy (the concordance index increased from 0.631 to 0.734 when MMP-7 was included). Based on these, we concluded that MMP-7 is a potential marker to identify patients with metastatic prostate cancer. In clinically localized prostate cancer, MMP-7 may provide independent prognostic information, thereby helping to optimize therapy decisions.
The value of urocortin and Ca-125 in the diagnosis of endometrioma.	In this study, we sought to establish the value of a new molecule, urocortin (Ucn), in the diagnosis of endometrioma and compare with Ca-125 to identify superiority of urocortin.
MR examination of the knee: interpretation with multiscreen digital workstation vs hardcopy format.	A multiscreen imaging workstation was compared with conventional hardcopy format for diagnostic interpretation of MR images of the knee. MR examinations from 30 patients were interpreted by two observers using film displayed both on a standard film panel alternator and an eight-screen digital workstation. Arthroscopic examination of these patients disclosed 30 meniscal tears and five anterior cruciate ligament tears in 28 patients. Two patients had normal arthroscopic examinations. The MR examinations were evaluated with a five-point confidence rating scale. Results were correlated with arthroscopic findings, and receiver-operating-characteristic curves were generated from these data. No significant difference was found between the areas under the receiver-operating-characteristic curves for film and digital display. The time required for image interpretation was greater when using the digital workstation than when using the film by a factor of approximately 2.7. Our data indicate that a multiscreen digital workstation can be used for interpreting MR examinations of the knee without impairment of diagnostic performance, but with increased time required for image interpretation when compared with radiographic film and a film panel alternator.
Comparative efficacy of umbilical arterial Doppler indices for predicting adverse perinatal outcome.	A variety of descriptor indices for the umbilical arterial Doppler waveform are currently in use for predicting perinatal outcome. However, there is a paucity of data regarding the relative diagnostic merits of these indices. We addressed this issue in a prospective, blind study in which the diagnostic efficacy of the following Doppler indices was compared: resistance index, systolic/diastolic ratio, pulsatility index, and diastolic average ratio. The analytic technique consisted of the receiver operating characteristic method, which evaluates a test's ability to discriminate a diseased from a healthy population. The patient population consisted of 350 pregnant patients with gestational ages of 34 to 36 weeks. A continuous-wave Doppler device with a 4 MHz transducer was used to investigate the umbilical vessels. The test was performed only once in each patient. The abnormal outcome parameters included small for gestational age (less than 10th percentile), Apgar score less than 7 at 5 minutes, fetal distress (late and severe variable decelerations, absent variability, fetal scalp pH less than 7.20), umbilical cord arterial pH less than 7.10, presence of thick meconium, and admission to neonatal intensive care unit (greater than 48 hours). The results showed that the resistance index had the best discriminatory ability when compared with other Doppler indices: the systolic/diastolic ratio (p less than 0.05), the pulsatility index (p less than 0.001), and the diastolic/average ratio (p less than 0.05). It is concluded that of the various Doppler indices assessed in this investigation, the resistance index offers the best diagnostic efficacy in predicting perinatal compromise.
Evaluation of receiver operator characteristics--optimum time of day for the assessment of heart rate variability after acute myocardial infarction.	The study reports a mathematical method for deciding which clinical data are of importance for treatment decisions in a given clinical setting. The method comprises the following steps: (A) the receiver operator characteristic (ROC) functions of the compared sets of data are computed; (B) the design and aim of the clinical study is expressed as an integral measure on the space of sensitivity values (this reflects the preference of low or high sensitivity values dependent on the clinical targets); (C) the sets of data being compared are characterised by the non-linear integrals of their ROC functions. The approach has been used to compare mean heart rate (HR) and heart rate variability (HRV) data calculated in 5113 different portions of 24-h ECG recordings and assessed in 365 patients surviving acute myocardial infarction, in order to evaluate the utility of Holter recording of varying lengths and starting times for the prediction of sudden cardiac death and/or serious arrhythmic events. The results of the study show that this approach is capable of evaluating and comparing the sets of medical data used for identification of patients who are at increased risk. The experimental part of the study showed that the optimum recording interval for the assessment of HR and HRV data in patients who survived acute myocardial infarction depends on the aim of the identification of increased risk patients. The optimum interval of recording is different for an identification which requires a low number of false negative cases and permits a higher number of false positive cases, than for the situation where a low number of false positive cases are required and a higher number of false negative cases are permissible.
Evaluation of creatinine-modified Child Pugh score for predicting short-term prognosis of patients with decompensated cirrhosis of liver as compare to original child Pugh score.	Original Child-Turcotte-Pugh (CTP) score has traditionally being used as a useful tool to assess prognosis in cirrhotic patients but the serum creatinine level has recently seen as an important predictor of survival in patients with liver cirrhosis. The aim of this study was to compare the accuracy ofCP and modified CP score for predicting in hospital survival as well as cirrhosis related complications such as encephalopathy, haematemesis and ascites in patients with decompensated cirrhosis. It was Descriptive case series. The study was conducted at Department of Medicine, Liaquat University of Medical & Health Sciences Jamshoro from October 2005 to July 2007.
Usefulness of serum procalcitonin levels in pulmonary tuberculosis.	There are very few data on serum procalcitonin (PCT) levels in pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) patients who are negative for HIV. We assessed serum PCT in consecutive patients diagnosed with pulmonary tuberculosis or community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) on admission to discriminate between PTB and CAP, and examined the value of prognostic factors in PTB. 102 PTB patients, 62 CAP patients, and 34 healthy volunteers were enrolled. Serum PCT in PTB patients was significantly lower than in CAP patients (mean  sd 0.21  0.49 versus 4.10  8.68 ngmL; p < 0.0001). By receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis, serum PCT was an appropriate discrimination marker for PTB and CAP (area under the curve 0.866). PTB patients with  0.5 ngmL (normal cut-off) had significantly shorter survival than those with < 0.5 ngmL (p < 0.0001). Serum PCT is not habitually elevated in HIV-negative PTB patients and is a useful biomarker for discriminating between PTB and CAP; however, when serum PCT is outside the normal range, it is a poor prognostic marker.
Surfactant protein-D predicts survival in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a progressive interstitial lung disease with a high mortality rate. As lung transplantation is the only therapeutic option, it is important to predict survival.
Diagnostic power of optic disc morphology, peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness, and macular inner retinal layer thickness in glaucoma diagnosis with fourier-domain optical coherence tomography.	To evaluate the capability of the optic disc, peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (P-RNFL), macular inner retinal layer (M-IRL) parameters, and their combination obtained by Fourier-domain optical coherent tomography (OCT) in differentiating a glaucoma suspect from perimetric glaucoma.
Early predictors of weight gain risk during treatment with olanzapine: analysis of pooled data from 58 clinical trials.	This analysis evaluated the usefulness of different predictors in identifying patient risk of substantial weight gain (SWG) during olanzapine treatment. Data were from 58 studies with 3826 patients diagnosed with schizophrenia, schizophrenia spectrum disorders, bipolar mania, bipolar depression, or borderline personality disorder. The primary definition for SWG was gaining >/=12% of baseline weight by endpoint (30 weeks +/-5 weeks); other definitions of SWG were also examined. Potential predictors of SWG included baseline patient characteristics, weight change, and percent weight change at Weeks 1, 2, 3, and 4 after olanzapine initiation. To facilitate model building and validation, the data set was randomly partitioned into training (N = 1912), validation (N = 1149), and test (N = 765) sets and 2 complementary analytic techniques were used: logistic regression with stepwise variable selection followed by receiver operating characteristic analysis for evaluation of resulting candidate models and decision trees. Approximately 24% of patients gained >/=12% of their initial weight, about 30% gained >/=10%, and 45% gained >/=7% or >/=5 kg by the 30-week endpoint. Baseline covariates significantly and positively associated with probability of SWG were lower baseline body mass index, younger age, female sex, United States residency, and African ethnicity. Early weight changes substantially improved the prediction of the risk for longer-term SWG. These results confirm that cut-offs for weight gain during the first 4 weeks of treatment may be useful in evaluating SWG risk for an individual patient.
Utility of the functional activities questionnaire for distinguishing mild cognitive impairment from very mild Alzheimer disease.	Current criteria for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) require "essentially intact" performance of activities of daily living (ADLs), which has proven difficult to operationalize. We sought to determine how well the Functional Activities Questionnaire (FAQ), a standardized assessment of instrumental ADLs, delineates the clinical distinction between MCI and very mild Alzheimer disease (AD). We identified 1801 individuals in the National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center Uniform Data Set with MCI (n=1108) or very mild AD (n=693) assessed with the FAQ and randomized them to the development or test sets. Receiver-operator curve (ROC) analysis of the development set identified optimal cut-points that maximized the sensitivity and specificity of FAQ measures for differentiating AD from MCI and were validated with the test set. ROC analysis of total FAQ scores in the development set produced an area under the curve of 0.903 and an optimal cut-point of 5/6, which yielded 80.3% sensitivity, 87.0% specificity, and 84.7% classification accuracy in the test set. Bill paying, tracking current events, and transportation (P's<0.005) were the FAQ items of greatest diagnostic utility. These data suggest that the FAQ exhibits adequate sensitivity and specificity when used as a standardized assessment of instrumental ADLs in the diagnosis of AD versus MCI. 
Prognostic value of procalcitonin in community-acquired pneumonia.	The prognostic value of procalcitonin (PCT) levels to predict mortality and other adverse events in community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) remains undefined. We assessed the performance of PCT overall, stratified into four predefined procalcitonin tiers (< 0.1, 0.1-0.25, > 0.25-0.5, >0.5 gL) and stratified by Pneumonia Severity Index (PSI) and CURB-65 (confusion, urea >7 mmolL, respiratory frequency  30 breathsmin, systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure  60 mmHg, and age  65 yrs) risk classes to predict all-cause mortality and adverse events within 30 days follow-up in 925 CAP patients. In receiver operating characteristic curves, initial PCT levels performed only moderately for mortality prediction (area under the curve (AUC) 0.60) and did not improve clinical risk scores. Follow-up measurements on days 3, 5 and 7 showed better prognostic performance (AUCs 0.61, 0.68 and 0.73). For prediction of adverse events, the AUC was 0.66 and PCT significantly improved the PSI (from 0.67 to 0.71) and the CURB-65 (from 0.64 to 0.70). In Kaplan-Meier curves, PCT tiers significantly separated patients within PSI and CURB-65 risk classes for adverse events prediction, but not for mortality. Reclassification analysis confirmed the added value of PCT for adverse event prediction, but not mortality. Initial PCT levels provide only moderate prognostic information concerning mortality risk and did not improve clinical risk scores. However, PCT was helpful during follow-up and for prediction of adverse events and, thereby, improved the PSI and CURB65 scores.
The role of cervical length measurement at 11-14 weeks for the prediction of preterm delivery.	To determine whether cervical length (CL) measurement at 11?14 weeks is predictive of preterm delivery (PTD).
Waist circumference and waist-hip ratio as predictors of type 2 diabetes mellitus in the Nepalese population of Kavre District.	The objective of the present study was to find out WHR and WC as predictor of Type 2 DM in the population of Kavre district of Nepal. Sixty-five "known type 2 diabetic" and Thirty-five "self-reported non-diabetic" subjects above thirty years of age were included in the present study. Height, Weight, Waist Circumference and Hip Circumference were recorded for every subject. BMI and WHR were calculated by the standard formula. The data was analyzed using SPSS Evaluation Version 15.0 and STATA Special Edition Version 8.2. Our results showed that the optimal cut-off values for WHR, WC. BMI and age in female are 0.87, 0.85 cms, 21.40 kg/m2 and 40 years respectively and for male the respective values are 0.96, 0.87 cms, 23.63 kg/m2 and 44 years. In female, age (82.9%) is the strongest predictor followed by WHR (78.1%), WC (70.2%) and least for BMI (55.0%) whereas for male WC (87.0%) is the strongest followed by WHR (81.6%), BMI (68.5%) and least: for age (6.4.6%) using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves. Optimum sensitivity and specificity obtained from the ROC curves corresponded to these cutoff values and area under curve for their predictive ability. The current study showed that the WC and WHR are the best predictors of type 2 DM in both male and female population of Kavre district.
Effect of the quality of the interaction data on predicting protein function from protein-protein interactions.	Protein function prediction is an important issue in the post-genomic era. When protein function is deduced from protein interaction data, the traditional methods treat each interaction sample equally, where the qualities of the interaction samples are seldom taken into account. In this paper, we investigate the effect of the quality of protein-protein interaction data on predicting protein function. Moreover, two improved methods, weight neighbour counting method (WNC) and weight chi-square method (WCHI), are proposed by considering the quality of interaction samples with the neighbour counting method (NC) and chi-square method (CHI). Experimental results have shown that the qualities of interaction samples affect the performances of protein function prediction methods seriously. It is also demonstrated that WNC and WCHI methods outperform NC and CHI methods in protein function prediction when example weights are chosen properly.
A geodesic deformable model for automatic segmentation of image sequences applied to radiation therapy.	Organ motion should be taken into account for image-guided fractionated radiotherapy. A deformable segmentation and registration method was developed for inter-and intra-fraction organ motion planning and evaluation.
Accuracy and precision of three echocardiographic methods for estimating mean pulmonary artery pressure.	Pulmonary hypertension is defined as resting mean pulmonary artery pressure (MPAP)  25 mm Hg. MPAP pressure estimation by right-sided heart catheterization (RHC) is considered the gold standard; however, its invasiveness limits repeated and frequent use. The purpose of this study was to compare the accuracy and precision of three echocardiographic methods for estimating MPAP.
Mucins carrying selectin ligands as predictive biomarkers of disseminated intravascular coagulation complication in ARDS.	ARDS patients present with intrapulmonary and systemic coagulation abnormalities. We previously demonstrated that circulating KL-6/MUC1 could predict complications of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) in ARDS. Recent studies indicate that circulating mucin can induce intravascular coagulation via interactions with selectin. We, therefore, investigated whether circulating mucins carrying selectin ligands are associated with DIC in ARDS.
Oximeter-based autonomic state indicator algorithm for cardiovascular risk assessment.	Cardiovascular (CV) risk assessment is important in clinical practice. An autonomic state indicator (ASI) algorithm based on pulse oximetry was developed and validated for CV risk assessment.
The value of diffusion-weighted MRI for prostate cancer detection and localization.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of prebiopsy T2-weighted imaging (T2WI), quantitative diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), and the combination of these magnetic resonance (MR) techniques (T2WI+DWI) in the detection and localization of peripheral zone prostate cancer.
Classifying epilepsy diseases using artificial neural networks and genetic algorithm.	In this study, FFT analysis is applied to the EEG signals of the normal and patient subjects and the obtained FFT coefficients are used as inputs in Artificial Neural Network (ANN). The differences shown by the non-stationary random signals such as EEG signals in cases of health and sickness (epilepsy) were evaluated and tried to be analyzed under computer-supported conditions by using artificial neural networks. Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) architecture is used Levenberg-Marquardt (LM), Quickprop (QP), Delta-bar delta (DBD), Momentum and Conjugate gradient (CG) learning algorithms, and the best performance was tried to be attained by ensuring the optimization with the use of genetic algorithms of the weights, learning rates, neuron numbers of hidden layer in the training process. This study shows that the artificial neural network increases the classification performance using genetic algorithm.
A novel method for diagnosing cirrhosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B: artificial neural network approach.	We designed an artificial neural network (ANN) to diagnose cirrhosis in patients with chronic HBV infection. Routine laboratory data (PT, INR, platelet count, direct bilirubin, AST/ALT, AST/PLT) and age were collected from 144 patients. Cirrhosis in these patients was diagnosed by liver biopsy. The ANN's ability was assessed using receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) analysis and the results were compared with a logistic regression model. Our results indicate that the neural network analysis is likely to provide a non-invasive, accurate test for diagnosing cirrhosis in chronic HBV-infected patients, only based on routine laboratory data.
Detection of resistivity for antibiotics by probabilistic neural networks.	This paper presents the use of probabilistic neural networks (PNNs) for detection of resistivity for antibiotics (resistant and sensitive). The PNN is trained on the resistivity or sensitivity to the antibiotics of each record in the Salmonella database. Estimation of the whole parameter space for the PNN was performed by the maximum-likelihood (ML) estimation method. The expectation-maximization (EM) approach can help to achieve the ML estimation via iterative computation. Resistivity and sensitivity of the three antibiotics (ampicillin, chloramphenicol disks and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole) were classified with high accuracies by the PNN. The obtained results demonstrated the success of the PNN to help in detection of resistivity for antibiotics.
The use of skin surface electropotentials for breast cancer detection--preliminary clinical trial results obtained using the biofield diagnostic system.	The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficiency of the Biofield Diagnostic System (BDS) as an adjunct to established diagnostic techniques such as mammography and ultrasound in differentiating benign and malignant breast lesions. The clinical trial was conducted at the Tan Tock Seng hospital, Singapore. 103 women scheduled for mammography and/or ultrasound tests participated in the study. The BDS test recorded a sensitivity of 100%, specificity of 97.6%, and an accuracy of 98.1%. The area under the ROC curve was 0.988 which was slightly lower than that of ultrasound (0.994) and slightly higher than that of mammography (0.951). The BDS test has demonstrated high sensitivity and specificity values in the studied population. The accuracy is also comparable to that of diagnostic techniques like mammography and ultrasound. Thus, it is evident that BDS can be a fast and reliable adjunct tool for getting a secondary opinion on lesions with indeterminate mammographic and sonographic results.
Three-dimensional and two-dimensional quantitative coronary angiography, and their prediction of reduced fractional flow reserve.	We investigated whether three-dimensional (3D) and two-dimensional quantitative coronary angiography (2D-QCA) measurements differed in their accuracy in predicting reduced fractional flow reserve (FFR), and how this varied with stenosis severity and the FFR cut-off used.
Performance assessment for EEG-based neonatal seizure detectors.	This study discusses an appropriate framework to measure system performance for the task of neonatal seizure detection using EEG. The framework is used to present an extended overview of a multi-channel patient-independent neonatal seizure detection system based on the Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier.
Psycholinguistic profiling differentiates specific language impairment from typical development and from attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.	Practitioners must have confidence in the capacity of their language measures to discriminate developmental language disorders from typical development and from other common disorders. In this study, psycholinguistic profiles were collected from 3 groups: children with specific language impairment (SLI), children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and children with typical development (TD). The capacity of different language indices to successfully discriminate SLI cases from TD and ADHD cases was examined through response operating characteristics curves, likelihood ratios, and binary logistic regression.
Comet assay in neonatal sepsis.	To determine whether the DNA damage detected using the Comet assay helps in the diagnosis of neonatal sepsis
Evaluation of the FRAX and Garvan fracture risk calculators in older women.	Fracture risk calculators estimate the absolute risk of osteoporotic fractures. We investigated the performance of the FRAX and Garvan Institute fracture risk calculators in healthy, older, New Zealand, postmenopausal women with normal bone mineral density (BMD) for their age. Fractures were ascertained in women initially enrolled in a 5-year trial of calcium supplements and followed on average for 8.8 years. Baseline data (1422 women, mean age 74 years, mean femoral neck BMD T-score -1.3) were used to estimate fracture risk during follow-up using the FRAX and Garvan calculators. The FRAX-New Zealand tool was used both with and without baseline BMD. The discrimination of the calculators was assessed using the area under the curve (AUC) of receiver operating characteristic curves. The calibration was assessed by comparing estimated risk of fracture with fracture incidence across a range of estimated fracture risks and clinical factors. For each fracture subtype, the calculators had comparable moderate predictive discriminative ability (AUC range: hip fracture 0.67-0.70; osteoporotic fracture 0.62-0.64; any fracture 0.60-0.63) that was similar to that of models using only age and BMD. The Garvan calculator was well calibrated for osteoporotic fractures but overestimated hip fractures. FRAX with BMD underestimated osteoporotic and hip fractures. FRAX without BMD underestimated osteoporotic and overestimated hip fractures. In summary, none of the calculators provided better discrimination than models based on age and BMD, and their discriminative ability was only moderate, which may limit their clinical utility. The calibration varied, suggesting that the calculators should be validated in local cohorts before clinical use.
Comment: Measures to summarize and compare the predictive capacity of markers.	In their presentation on measures of predictive capacity Gu and Pepe say little about calibration. This comment distinguishes conditional and unconditional calibration and how these relate to the stated results.
The increased range of cervical flexed motion detected by radiographs in Hirayama disease.	Cervical flexion movement is supposed to play an important role in the pathogenesis of Hirayama disease. But there is no report on the range of cervical flexed motion in this disease. The purpose of current study was to compare the range of cervical flexed motion in patients with Hirayama disease with the one in healthy controls using conventional lateral flexion radiographs of the cervical spine, and to investigate the diagnostic value of radiographs for Hirayama disease.
Benefits of biomarker selection and clinico-pathological covariate inclusion in breast cancer prognostic models.	Multi-marker molecular assays have impacted management of early stage breast cancer, facilitating adjuvant chemotherapy decisions. We generated prognostic models that incorporate protein-based molecular markers and clinico-pathological variables to improve survival prediction.
On combining computer-aided detection systems.	Computer-aided detection (CAD) is increasingly used in clinical practice and for many applications a multitude of CAD systems have been developed. In practice, CAD systems have different strengths and weaknesses and it is therefore interesting to consider their combination. In this paper, we present generic methods to combine multiple CAD systems and investigate what kind of performance increase can be expected. Experimental results are presented using data from the ANODE09 and ROC09 online CAD challenges for the detection of pulmonary nodules in computed tomography scans and red lesions in retinal images, respectively. For both applications, combination results in a large and significant increase in performance when compared to the best individual CAD system.
Accuracy of fetal gender determination in the first trimester using three-dimensional ultrasound.	To evaluate the accuracy of three-dimensional (3D) ultrasound in fetal gender assignment in the first trimester.
High uric acid level during the first 20 weeks of pregnancy is associated with higher risk for gestational diabetes mellitus and mild preeclampsia.	To examine the association between uric acid (UA) level during the first 20 weeks of pregnancy and the development of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) and preeclampsia in the second half of pregnancy.
A scoring system to predict readmission of patients with acute pancreatitis to the hospital within thirty days of discharge.	Reducing rapid readmission of patients after discharge could improve quality of treatment and reduce costs. Little is known about clinical predictors of early readmission for acute pancreatitis (AP). We developed a strategy to identify and stratify patients with AP at risk for readmission within 30 days of discharge.
Is a single nucleotide polymorphism a risk factor for lung cancer in the matrix metalloproteinase-2 promoter?	We aimed to investigate the association of polymorphism frequencies of MMP-2 C1306T and MMP-2 plasma enzyme activity in lung cancer patients. In this study 300 genomic DNA (200 lung cancer patients + 100 no lung cancer) were analyzed. Polymorphisms were determined by using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) and electrophoresis. Plasma MMP-2 enzyme activity levels were measured by using ELISA. Sex, asbestos expose and smoking might be risk factors for lung cancer. The frequencies of C1306T genotypes in controls CC 65%, CT 32%, TT 3% and in patients CC 61%, CT 37%, TT2 % were found. It was determined that CC genotype frequency increase significantly in patients and controls. Plasma MMP-2 enzyme activity levels were increased in lung cancer patients according to controls. Finally, we claimed that determining of MMP-2 enzyme level can be used as a marker in lung cancer.
Refining clinical judgment of treatment outcome in obsessive-compulsive disorder.	This research aimed to provide clinicians and investigators with optimal treatment outcome criteria for accurately predicting response and remission in both research studies and clinical practice. Data from 153 adult OCD outpatients (ages 18-79) who had participated in a treatment outcome study were examined. Signal detection analysis was conducted to compare levels of Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS) symptom percent reductions and post treatment absolute scores with Clinical Global Impression (CGI) ratings of symptom improvement and severity. Optimal cutoff criteria were based on sensitivity, specificity and efficiency and were assessed via the Quality Receiver Operating Characteristic curve. A Y-BOCS reduction of 45% was observed to be the most efficient for predicting response in research trials, whereas a reduction of 35% may be optimal for clinical use. A 55% Y-BOCS reduction was determined to be the optimal cutoff for predicting remission in both clinical and research settings. A Y-BOCS absolute raw score of 12 or less was optimal for predicting remission in a clinical setting and a raw score of 14 or below was most favorable in research trials. This research provides the first empirical contrast of optimal outcome criteria in OCD based on differing ideals of both research and practice.
Potentially modifiable predictors of mortality in patients treated with long-term oxygen therapy.	Anemia is considered a systemic manifestation of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD); however, few studies have described its influence on chronic respiratory failure (CRF) prognosis. We aimed to test the hypotheses that anemia negatively influences survival and also to identify the cut-off points of hematocrit (Htc) and hemoglobin (Hb) associated with higher mortality in CRF patients using long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT).
Immuno-reactive proteins from Mycobacterium immunogenum useful for serodiagnosis of metalworking fluid hypersensitivity pneumonitis.	Metalworking fluid-associated hypersensitivity pneumonitis (MWF-HP) is a pulmonary disease caused by inhaling microorganisms present in the metalworking fluids used in the industrial sector. Mycobacterium immunogenum is the main etiological agent. Among the clinical, radiological and biological tools used for diagnosis, serological tests are important. The aim of this study was to identify immunogenic proteins in M. immunogenum and to use recombinant antigens for serological diagnosis of MWF-HP. Immunogenic proteins were detected by two-dimensional Western blot and candidate proteins were identified by mass spectrometry. Recombinant antigens were expressed in Escherichia coli and tested by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with the sera of 14 subjects with MWF-HP and 12 asymptomatic controls exposed to M. immunogenum. From the 350 spots visualized by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis with M. immunogenum extract, 6 immunogenic proteins were selected to be expressed as recombinant antigens. Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase antigen allowed for the best discrimination of MWF-HP cases against controls with an area under the receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve of 0.930 (95% CI=0.820-1), a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 83% for the optimum threshold. Other recombinant antigens correspond to acyl-CoA dehydrogenase FadE, cytosol aminopeptidase, dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase, serine hydroxymethyltransferase and superoxide dismutase. This is the first time that recombinant antigens have been used for the serodiagnosis of hypersensitivity pneumonitis. The availability of recombinant antigens makes it possible to develop standardized serological tests which in turn could simplify diagnosis, thus making it less invasive.
Detection of architectural distortion in prior mammograms.	We present methods for the detection of sites of architectural distortion in prior mammograms of interval-cancer cases. We hypothesize that screening mammograms obtained prior to the detection of cancer could contain subtle signs of early stages of breast cancer, in particular, architectural distortion. The methods are based upon Gabor filters, phase portrait analysis, a novel method for the analysis of the angular spread of power, fractal analysis, Laws' texture energy measures derived from geometrically transformed regions of interest (ROIs), and Haralick's texture features. With Gabor filters and phase portrait analysis, 4224 ROIs were automatically obtained from 106 prior mammograms of 56 interval-cancer cases, including 301 true-positive ROIs related to architectural distortion, and from 52 mammograms of 13 normal cases. For each ROI, the fractal dimension, the entropy of the angular spread of power, 10 Laws' measures, and Haralick's 14 features were computed. The areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves obtained using the features selected by stepwise logistic regression and the leave-one-ROI-out method are 0.76 with the Bayesian classifier, 0.75 with Fisher linear discriminant analysis, and 0.78 with a single-layer feed-forward neural network. Free-response receiver operating characteristics indicated sensitivities of 0.80 and 0.90 at 5.8 and 8.1 false positives per image, respectively, with the Bayesian classifier and the leave-one-image-out method.
Diagnostic accuracy of first generation dual-source computed tomography in the assessment of coronary artery disease: a meta-analysis from 24 studies.	The objective of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the first generation dual-source computed tomography (DSCT) in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD). We selected articles from four databases (Pubmed, Embase, the Cochrane central register of controlled trials (CENTRAL) and Chinese biomedical literature database. The strict study selection was made, and two reviewers independently extracted data back-to-back from included studies. Meta-Disc version 1.4 was used to obtain the pooled results. 24 studies were included in meta-analysis. A cut off point of50% stenosis was used in all the studies to define significant coronary artery stenosis. In patient-based analysis (n=801), pooled sensitivity was 0.980 [95% confidence interval (CI):0.970-0.990], specificity 0.870 (95% CI: 0.830-0.900), median positive predictive value (PPV) across studies 0.876 (range from 0.741 to 0.943) and negative predictive value (NPV) 0.964 (range from 0.900 to 1.000). In vessel-based analysis (n=3,620) DSCT pooled sensitivity was 0.957 (95% CI: 0.943-0.969), specificity 0.930 (95% CI: 0.910-0.940), median PPV across studies 0.838 (range from 0.534 to 0.964) and NPV 0.973 (range from 0.885 to 0.996). In segment-based analysis (n=6,177) DSCT pooled sensitivity was 0.915 (95% CI: 0.901-0.928), specificity 0.959 (95% CI: 0.956-0.963), median PPV 0.782 (range from 0.320 to 0.927) and NPV 0.985 (range from 0.929 to 0.999). In subgroups analysis, pooled sensitivity and specificity in segment based analysis were 93.1 and 92.3% when heart rate (HR) is beyond 70bpm; when HR was below 70bpm, the sensitivity was similar (93%), but specificity increased a little from 92.3 to 94%. When analysed based on segment with a cut-off calcium score of 400, the sensitivity was slightly higher in the subgroup with a score over 400 than in the subgroup with a score below 400 (94 vs. 91%), while the specificity was much lower in the subgroup with the high calcium score than the subgroup with the low calcium score (85 vs. 96%). For subgroups with heart rate beyond and below 65bpm in patient-based analysis, sensitivities were 0.95 (95% CI: 0.86-0.99) and 0.98 (95% CI 0.91-1.00), respectively, while the specificities were 0.88 (95% CI 0.81-0.94) and 0.85 (95% CI 0.77-0.91), respectively. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) in the two subgroups were 0.9608 and 0.9786, respectively. DSCT is highly sensitive for patient-based analysis of CAD and has high specificity and NPV for segment-based analysis of CAD. First generation DSCT may have a role in the evaluation of patients with chest pain as a simple non-invasive examination because of its ability to diagnose or exclude significant CAD.
Dimensionality estimation for optimal detection of functional networks in BOLD fMRI data.	Estimation of the intrinsic dimensionality of fMRI data is an important part of data analysis that helps to separate the signal of interest from noise. We have studied multiple methods of dimensionality estimation proposed in the literature and used these estimates to select a subset of principal components that was subsequently processed by linear discriminant analysis (LDA). Using simulated multivariate Gaussian data, we show that the dimensionality that optimizes signal detection (in terms of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) metric) goes through a transition from many dimensions to a single dimension as a function of the signal-to-noise ratio. This transition happens when the loci of activation are organized into a spatial network and the variance of the networked, task-related signals is high enough for the signal to be easily detected in the data. We show that reproducibility of activation maps is a metric that captures this switch in intrinsic dimensionality. Except for reproducibility, all of the methods of dimensionality estimation we considered failed to capture this transition: optimization of Bayesian evidence, minimum description length, supervised and unsupervised LDA prediction, and Stein's unbiased risk estimator. This failure results in sub-optimal ROC performance of LDA in the presence of a spatially distributed network, and may have caused LDA to underperform in many of the reported comparisons in the literature. Using real fMRI data sets, including multi-subject group and within-subject longitudinal analysis we demonstrate the existence of these dimensionality transitions in real data.
Uterine artery Doppler screening for pre-eclampsia: comparison of the lower, mean and higher first-trimester pulsatility indices.	A previous study suggested that the lower uterine artery pulsatility index (PI) is a better predictor of pre-eclampsia than is either the mean or higher indices. The aim of this study was to assess the relative value of these three indices for the prediction of pre-eclampsia in the first trimester of pregnancy.
Effect of cancer prevalence on the use of risk-assessment cut-off levels and the performance of mathematical models to distinguish malignant from benign adnexal masses.	Two logistic regression models have been developed for the characterization of adnexal masses. The goal of this prospective analysis was to see whether these models perform differently according to the prevalence of malignancy and whether the cut-off levels of risk assessment for malignancy by the models require modification in different centers.
High-resolution multifocal pupillographic objective perimetry in glaucoma.	The recent development of an objective and noninvasive perimetric technique using pupillary responses to sparse multifocal visual stimuli shows promise for the assessment of visual function in glaucoma. This study assesses the sensitivity and specificity of four variants of dichoptic multifocal pupillographic objective perimetry (mfPOP) with a high-resolution, 40-region/field stimulus.
Predictive ability of waist-to-height in relation to adiposity in children is not improved with age and sex-specific values.	A waist-to-height ratio (WHtR) 0.5 indicates increased health risk in children and adults. However, because of residual correlation between WHtR and height in children, dividing waist circumference by height to the power of one may be insufficient to correctly adjust for height during growth. This study aimed to determine whether age and sex-specific exponents which properly adjust for height affect the predictive ability of WHtR to correctly discriminate between children with differing fat distribution. Total and regional body fat was measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) in 778 (49% male) children and adolescents. WHtR was calculated as waist/height(1) (WHtR(a)), and using two published age and sex-specific exponents for height (WHtR(b)) (1) (WHtR(c)) (2), and compared with various DXA indexes of body composition using receiver operating curve analysis. 15% of males and 17% of females had a WHtR(a) 0.5, with corresponding figures of 8% and 27% for WHtR(b), and 23% and 17% for WHtR(c). WHtR(a) was significantly different from WHtR(b) (males only, P < 0.001) but not WHtR(c) (P = 0.121). Areas under the receiver operating curve (AUC) for WHtR(a) were significantly higher than AUCs for WHtR(b) or WHtR(c) in relation to DXA-measured body composition (AUCs 0.89 for WHtR(a) compared with AUCs of 0.71-0.84 for WHtR(b) and WHtR(c)). Simply dividing waist circumference by height (WHtR(a)) correctly discriminates between children and adolescents with low and high levels of total and central fat at least 90% of the time. Keeping your waist circumference to less than half your height provides an effective screening index of body composition during growth.
A combination of the pediatric NAFLD fibrosis index and enhanced liver fibrosis test identifies children with fibrosis.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses diseases from simple steatosis, to steatohepatitis, to fibrosis, and cirrhosis. The pediatric NAFLD fibrosis index (PNFI) and the enhanced liver fibrosis (ELF) test are potential noninvasive markers for fibrosis. We prospectively evaluated the performance of PNFI and ELF in assessing fibrosis in children with biopsy-proven NAFLD.
Free copper distinguishes mild cognitive impairment subjects from healthy elderly individuals.	In patients affected by Alzheimer's disease (AD), serum copper not bound to ceruloplasmin ('free' copper) appears elevated, slightly but significantly enough to distinguish AD patients from healthy elderly subjects. In this paper we tested the hypothesis that this is also the case for individuals affected by mild cognitive impairment (MCI). A sample of 83 MCI subjects were compared with 100 elderly control subjects in terms of levels of serum copper, free copper, ceruloplasmin, apolipoprotein E4 genotype (APOE4), iron, transferrin, and total antioxidant capacity (TRAP). The groups were also compared in terms of demographic and cardiovascular risk factors. The comparison with an additional group of 105 mild to moderate AD patients was also evaluated. The possible effects of copper dysfunction on cognitive decline were evaluated by multinomial logistic regression analysis. A linear regression model was applied to define the role of metals and antioxidant dysfunction in explaining Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) variations. APOE4 and free copper differentiated the MCI group from the healthy control group. The probability of acquiring MCI increased by about 24% for each free copper unit (mol/L) increment. APOE4 and free copper differentiated the MCI group also from the AD group. APOE4 and free copper appeared associated to MMSE worsening, as did age and gender. These results suggest that free copper can help in discriminating MCI subjects from healthy controls, but not on an individual basis.
Kidney injury molecule-1.	To review the new findings about the physiological roles of kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1) and the rapidly expanding evidence for this molecule as a promising biomarker in preclinical kidney toxicity evaluation and various human kidney diseases.
Value of the signal-averaged electrocardiogram in arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy/dysplasia.	Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy/dysplasia (ARVC/D) is an inherited disease that causes structural and functional abnormalities of the right ventricle (RV). The presence of late potentials as assessed by the signal-averaged electrocardiogram (SAECG) is a minor task force criterion.
Does objective shoulder impairment explain patient-reported functional outcome? A study of proximal humerus fractures.	Following a healed proximal humerus fracture, patient-reported outcome is predicted by objective physical examination findings. Range of motion and strength thresholds can correctly identify subjects with normal functioning shoulders.
Existing trauma and critical care scoring systems underestimate mortality among vascular trauma patients.	The impact of vascular injuries on patient mortality has not been well evaluated in multi-trauma patients. This study seeks to determine (1) whether the presence of vascular trauma negatively affects outcome compared with nonvascular trauma (NVT) and (2) the utility of existing severity scoring systems in predicting mortality among vascular trauma (VT) patients.
In vitro screening for population variability in chemical toxicity.	Immortalized human lymphoblastoid cell lines have been used to demonstrate that it is possible to use an in vitro model system to identify genetic factors that affect responses to xenobiotics. To extend the application of such studies to investigative toxicology by assessing interindividual and population-wide variability and heritability of chemical-induced toxicity phenotypes, we have used cell lines from the Centre d'Etude du Polymorphisme Humain (CEPH) trios assembled by the HapMap Consortium. Our goal is to aid in the development of predictive in vitro genetics-anchored models of chemical-induced toxicity. Cell lines from the CEPH trios were exposed to three concentrations of 14 environmental chemicals. We assessed ATP production and caspase-3/7 activity 24 h after treatment. Replicate analyses were used to evaluate experimental variability and classify responses. We show that variability of response across the cell lines exists for some, but not all, chemicals, with perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and phenobarbital eliciting the greatest degree of interindividual variability. Although the data for the chemicals used here do not show evidence for broad-sense heritability of toxicity response phenotypes, substantial cell line variation was found, and candidate genetic factors contributing to the variability in response to PFOA were investigated using genome-wide association analysis. The approach of screening chemicals for toxicity in a genetically defined yet diverse in vitro human cell-based system is potentially useful for identification of chemicals that may pose a highest risk, the extent of within-species variability in the population, and genetic loci of interest that potentially contribute to chemical susceptibility.
Probative value of absolute and relative judgments in eyewitness identification.	It is well-accepted that eyewitness identification decisions based on relative judgments are less accurate than identification decisions based on absolute judgments. However, the theoretical foundation for this view has not been established. In this study relative and absolute judgments were compared through simulations of the WITNESS model (Clark, Appl Cogn Psychol 17:629-654, 2003) to address the question: Do suspect identifications based on absolute judgments have higher probative value than suspect identifications based on relative judgments? Simulations of the WITNESS model showed a consistent advantage for absolute judgments over relative judgments for suspect-matched lineups. However, simulations of same-foils lineups showed a complex interaction based on the accuracy of memory and the similarity relationships among lineup members.
The transcriptomic response to viral infection of two strains of shrimp (Litopenaeus vannamei).	The extent to which data-intensive studies of the transcriptome can provide insight into biological responses is not well defined, especially in the case of species (such as shrimp) where much physiological and biochemical knowledge is missing. In this study we took a transcriptomic approach to gain insight into the response to viral infection of two strains of the Pacific whiteleg shrimp (Litopenaeus vannamei) that differ in their resistance to Taura Syndrome Virus (TSV). Changes in gene expression in the hepatopancreas following infection with TSV and Yellow Head Virus (YHV) were assessed using a cDNA microarray containing 2469 putative unigenes. The null hypothesis tested was that significant differences between the transcriptomic responses to viral infection of resistant and sensitive strains would not be detected. This hypothesis was broadly rejected, with the most surprising observation being that the baseline (control, unchallenged) sensitive and resistant strains expressed distinguishable transcriptomic signatures. The resistant line was pre-disposed to lower expression of genes encoding viral (and host) proteins. Many of the genes differentiating resistant and sensitive lines are involved in protein metabolism, cellular trafficking, immune defense and stress response, although it was not possible to clearly identify candidate genes responsible for TSV resistance. In contrast to TSV challenge, YSV either failed to perturb the host transcriptome or created a "confused" response that was difficult to interpret.
Neutral vs positive oral contrast in diagnosing acute appendicitis with contrast-enhanced CT: sensitivity, specificity, reader confidence and interpretation time.	The study compared the sensitivity, specificity, confidence and interpretation time of readers of differing experience in diagnosing acute appendicitis with contrast-enhanced CT using neutral vs positive oral contrast agents.
Bioavailable IGF-I is associated with fat-free mass gains after physical training in women.	The contributions of systemic versus local insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) action for mediating fat-free mass (FFM) accretion have yet to be fully clarified, but circulating IGF-I is the preferred measure in clinical practice, and its merits as a biomarker have been demonstrated for a number of physiological outcomes.
The presence, characterization and prognosis of coronary plaques among patients with zero coronary calcium scores.	Patients with coronary artery calcium (CAC) scores of zero are generally considered not to have atherosclerosis. Recent studies involving computed tomography coronary angiography (CTCA) challenge this assumption. This goal of the present study is to assess the frequency, morphology, location, and the prognosis of patients with plaque detected on CTCA and zero CAC. 1,119 patients (5112years, 52% male) with a zero CAC score during CTCA study were retrospectively identified. The CTCA studies were assessed for the presence, morphology, location and severity of all coronary plaques. All-cause mortality was assessed. The prevalence of coronary plaque was 13% (147 patients). Among the 212 plaques identified 154 (73%) were non-calcified, 28 (13%) were calcified, and 30 (14%) were of mixed morphology. Notably, 70% stenosis was noted among only 0.4% of all patients. ROC analysis revealed that coronary artery disease risk factors did not add to the prediction of plaque among our patients. Over a mean follow-up of 2.50.6years there were 4 deaths (0.4%), all in patients without coronary plaque on CTCA. The presence of coronary plaque is not uncommon among patients with zero CAC scores. These plaques were rarely associated with hemodynamically significant stenoses and were associated with an excellent prognosis. Clinical factors do not appear to be useful in predicting which patients with zero CAC scores have undetected coronary plaque.
Footprint analysis of flatfoot in preschool-aged children.	Our aim in this study was to analyze the footprint measurements of flatfoot in a population of preschool-aged children. Three footprint measurements, the Clarke's angle (CA), Chippaux-Smirak index (CSI), and Staheli arch index (AI), were used for comparison with clinical diagnosis. A total of 2,638 static footprints of children aged from 3 to 6 years were recorded. The clinical diagnosis as a gold standard compared with the results of the CA, CSI, and AI and displayed in a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. In order to illustrate the diagnostic accuracy in clinical settings, their likelihood ratios were calculated given their cutoff points, and their pretest/posttest probabilities were plotted as the Fagan nomogram. The optimal cutoff points for CA, CSI, and AI were 14.04, 62.70%, and 107.42%, respectively, and all of them showed high sensitivity. The areas under curves were 0.91, 0.95, and 0.92, respectively. The positive predictive values were 0.84, 0.91, and 0.85, and the negative predictive values were 0.82, 0.85, and 0.85, respectively. The positive likelihood ratio values for CA, CSI, and AI were 4.09, 7.52, and 4.61, and the negative likelihood ratio values were 0.18, 0.14, and 0.13, respectively. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that footprint analysis methods are suitable for diagnosing flatfoot in preschool-aged children, and that the most appropriate cutoffs are as follows: CA  14.04, CSI > 62.70%, and AI > 107.42%. The CSI had a predictive probability of more than 90% and is recommended in screening for flatfoot in preschool-aged children.
The effect of the respiratory cycle on liver stiffness values as measured by transient elastography.	The findings of several studies suggest that liver stiffness values can be affected by the degree of intrahepatic congestion respiration influence intrahepatic blood volume and may affect liver stiffness. We evaluated the influence of respiration on liver stiffness. Transient elastography (TE) was performed at the end of inspiration and at the end of expiration in patients with chronic liver disease. The median values obtained during the inspiration set and during the expiration set were defined as inspiratory and expiratory liver stiffness, respectively. A total of 123 patients with chronic liver disease were enrolled (mean age 49years; 64.2% men). Liver cirrhosis coexisted in 29 patients (23.6%). Expiratory liver stiffness was significantly higher than inspiratory liver stiffness (8.7 vs 7.9kPa, P=0.001), while the expiratory interquartile range/median ratio (IQR ratio) did not differ from the inspiratory IQR ratio. Expiratory liver stiffness was significantly higher than inspiratory liver stiffness in 49 (39.8%) patients (HE group), expiratory liver stiffness was significantly lower than inspiratory stiffness in 15 (12.2%) patients, and there was no difference in 59 (48.0%) patients. Liver cirrhosis was more frequent in those who had a lower liver stiffness reading in expiration, and only the absence of liver cirrhosis was significantly associated with a higher reading in expiration in multivariate analysis. In conclusion, liver stiffness was significantly elevated during expiration especially in patients without liver cirrhosis. The effect of respiration should be kept in mind during TE readings.
Validity of body mass index and waist circumference to detect excess fat mass in children aged 7-14 years.	To evaluate the screening performance of body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference (WC) for excess adiposity. In addition, the diagnostic accuracy of cutoffs from different international and national reference systems based on BMI and WC was investigated.
Distinguishing the relevant features of frequent suicide attempters.	In spite of the high prevalence of suicide behaviours and the magnitude of the resultant burden, little is known about why individuals reattempt. We aim to investigate the relationships between clinical risk factors and the repetition of suicidal attempts.
Immunohistochemical study of c-KIT (CD117) expression in renal cell carcinoma.	Certain subtypes of Renal cell carcinomas (RCCs) are diagnostically challenging owing to their overlapping histopathological features. Recently, c-KIT (CD117) has come into focus as a potential diagnostic marker of some renal tumors. c-KIT also provides a potentially suitable for targeted tumor therapy. The present study was designed to investigate the expression of c-KIT in RCCs in order to evaluate its diagnostic usefulness as a phenotypic marker and to establish the basis for a new possible therapeutic modality.
Prediction of endometrial malignancy in women with postmenopausal bleeding and sonographic endometrial thickness  4.5 mm.	To build mathematical models for evaluating the individual risk of endometrial malignancy in women with postmenopausal bleeding and sonographic endometrial thickness  4.5 mm using clinical data, sonographic endometrial thickness and power Doppler ultrasound findings.
Different domains of health functioning as predictors of sickness absence--a prospective cohort study.	The aim of this study was to examine different domains of health functioning as predictors of sickness absence.
Initial visual acuity is an important prognostic factor in patients with branch retinal vein occlusion.	To evaluate the role of initial visual acuity (VA) as a potential prognostic factor for final VA in patients with branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO).
Correlation between baseline serum 1,5-anhydroglucitol levels and 2-hour post-challenge glucose levels during oral glucose tolerance tests.	Since there is increasing evidence that postprandial hyperglycemia is a risk factor for the development of macrovascular complications, it is important to predict postprandial hyperglycemia in the early stages of glucose intolerance, and routine medical checkups provide a good opportunity to do so. The aim of this study was to evaluate the usability of 1,5-anhydroglucitol (1,5-AG) in routine medical checkups. The subjects were 77 Japanese men who participated in a routine medical checkup. First, we performed 75 g oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTTs), and examined the changes in glucose and 1,5-AG levels measured at 0, 30, 60, 90, 120, and 180 minutes (min). 1,5-AG levels did not significantly change until 90 min after the glucose load. Second, a linear regression analysis showed an inverse correlation between the 2-hour post-challenge glucose (2h-PG) and baseline 1,5-AG levels during the OGTT (P = 0.001, r(2) = 0.13), and the correlation was still significant after adjustment for age (2h-PG = 170 + 0.83  (age in years) - 3.23  (1,5-AG), P = 0.002, adjusted r(2) = 0.12). Finally, to investigate the test characteristics of 1,5-AG levels as a predictor of a 2h-PG level 200 mg/dL, we plotted a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. The area under the ROC curve was 0.78, and the maximal sum of sensitivity and specificity (78% and 72%, respectively) was obtained at a 1,5-AG cutoff level of <14.2g/mL. We conclude that 1,5-AG values may provide an ancillary predictor of 2h-PG of 75 g OGTTs in routine medical checkups.
Ranking prognosis markers in cancer genomic studies.	In cancer research, high-throughput genomic studies have been extensively conducted, searching for markers associated with cancer diagnosis, prognosis and variation in response to treatment. In this article, we analyze cancer prognosis studies and investigate ranking markers based on their marginal prognosis power. To avoid ambiguity, we focus on microarray gene expression studies where genes are the markers, but note that the methodology and results are applicable to other high-throughput studies. The objectives of this study are 2-fold. First, we investigate ranking markers under three commonly adopted semiparametric models, namely the Cox, accelerated failure time and additive risk models. Data analysis shows that the ranking may vary significantly under different models. Second, we describe a nonparametric concordance measure, which has roots in the time-dependent ROC (receiver operating characteristic) framework and relies on much weaker assumptions than the semiparametric models. In simulation, it is shown that ranking using the concordance measure is not sensitive to model specification whereas ranking under the semiparametric models is. In data analysis, the concordance measure generates rankings significantly different from those under the semiparametric models.
Assessment of thrombin generation measured before and after cardiopulmonary bypass surgery and its association with postoperative bleeding.	Bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality and consumes large amounts of blood. Identifying patients at increased risk of bleeding secondary to hemostatic impairment may improve clinical outcomes by allowing early intervention.
Pulse contour analysis to assess hemodynamic response to passive leg raising.	The authors evaluated the ability of 2 pulse contour cardiac output (CO) techniques to track CO changes during passive leg raising (PLR) to assess fluid loading responsiveness.
The role of reference body selection in calculating posterior corneal elevation and prediction of keratoconus using rotating Scheimpflug camera.	To explore the effects of corneal astigmatism and asphericity on posterior elevation values calculated by different reference bodies and to compare their predictive accuracy in the diagnosis of keratoconus.
A method to combine cognitive and neurophysiological assessments of the elderly.	The development of better treatments for brain diseases of the elderly will necessitate more sensitive and efficient means of repeatedly assessing an individual's neurocognitive status.
Establishment of a paediatric age-related reference interval for the measurement of urinary total fractionated metanephrines.	Normetanephrine and metanephrine are intermediate metabolites of noradrenaline and adrenaline metabolism. To assess whether normetanephrine and metanephrine analysis may aid in the diagnosis of Neuroblastoma, a reference interval for these metabolites must first be established.
Urinary -2-microglobulin as an alternative marker for fetal inflammatory response and development of bronchopulmonary dysplasia in premature infants.	To evaluate the clinical utility of urinary -2-microglobulin (B2M) at birth, an alternative to proinflammatory cytokines, as an indicative marker of fetal inflammatory response and subsequent higher risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in premature infants.
Comparative analysis of exit interviews and direct clinical observations in pediatric ambulatory care services in Afghanistan.	To assess the receiver operating curves (ROCs) for counseling in the management of common childhood diseases comparing direct observations with exit interviews.
Prediction of sperm retrieval in men with non-obstructive azoospermia using artificial neural networks: leptin is a good assistant diagnostic marker.	At present, non-invasive methods are not comprehensive enough to enable urologists to predict sperm retrieval results accurately in patients with non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA). Our aim was to improve the prediction accuracy of sperm retrieval by using leptin and artificial neural networks (ANNs).
Impact of soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 and placental growth factor serum levels for risk stratification and early diagnosis in patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction.	Angiogenic factors play an important role in the development of atherosclerosis and show pronounced changes during acute myocardial infarction (AMI). We analysed the impact of placental growth factor (PlGF) and its endogen opponent, soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1), on clinical outcome and the early diagnosis of AMI.
Validation of the Finnish diabetes risk score (FINDRISC) questionnaire for screening for undiagnosed type 2 diabetes, dysglycaemia and the metabolic syndrome in Greece.	The present study aimed to validate the Finnish Type 2 Diabetes Risk Score (FINDRISC) questionnaire for its ability to predict the presence of any glucose homoeostasis abnormalities and the metabolic syndrome (MetS) in the Greek population.
Usefulness of lipoprotein ratios in assessing carotid atherosclerosis in Japanese type 2 diabetic patients.	It is indicated that total/HDL cholesterol and LDL/HDL cholesterol ratios have more predictive power for cardiovascular disease compared to classic lipid parameters. However, there have been few reports about the usefulness of these indices for the assessment of early stage atherosclerosis in Japanese type 2 diabetic subjects.
Multi-marker assessment of ovarian reserve predicts oocyte yield after ovulation induction.	Many hormone and ultrasound measurements have been assessed as possible markers of ovarian reserve and to identify potential poor responders to ovulation induction. The objective of this study is to determine whether multiple biomarkers measured in blood samples collected immediately before commencement of ovulation induction for IVF can predict the outcome of ovarian stimulation.
The usefulness of albumin-adjusted ischemia-modified albumin index as early detecting marker for ischemic stroke.	This study was conducted to investigate whether albumin-adjusted ischemia-modified albumin index (IMA index) is more sensitive and accurate than ischemia-modified albumin (IMA) as early detection marker of ischemic stroke, and to compare IMA and IMA index in progression and non-progression of ischemic stroke. This case-control study was done at an emergency medical center of a university hospital. 52 patients with neurological symptoms were enrolled (28 Ischemic Stroke Group and 24 Non-Stroke Group). In the ROC analysis of IMA index to diagnose stroke, area under the curve (AUC) was 0.990 (cutoff value 91.4; 95% CI: 0.970-1.000; sensitivity: 96.4%; specificity 95.8%). The AUC for IMA value was 0.928 (cutoff value 98 U/ml; 95% CI 0.857-0.999; sensitivity 89.3%; specificity 88.5%). [corrected] The difference between progression (n = 12) and non-progression group (n = 16) in IMA and IMA index were statistically insignificant (p > 0.01). IMA index was more sensitive than conventional IMA value as diagnostic biomarker of stroke, however, arguable as a predictive biomarker for progression of ischemic stroke.
Relevance of monitoring metabolic reduction in patients with relapsed or refractory follicular and mantle cell lymphoma receiving bendamustine: a multicenter study.	The aim of the present study was to investigate the relevance of monitoring metabolic reduction evaluated by (18) F-fluorodeoxyglucose ((18) F-FDG) PET/CT in relapsed or refractory patients with follicular lymphoma (FL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who received bendamustine. We conducted a phantom study of 18F-FDG PET/CT to ensure quality control for performing a multicenter clinical study. We analyzed 49 patients with relapsed or refractory FL and MCL who received bendamustine (120 mg/m(2)) on days 1-2 of a 21-day cycle for up to six cycles as a licensing phase II study. 18F-FDG PET/CT scans were acquired before the first and after the last cycle. In a total of 175 target lesions, the maximum perpendicular diameter (Max PD), minimum PD (Min PD), sum of the products of the Max PD (SPD), maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax), and the percentage reduction rates of Max PD (%Max PD), SPD (%SPD) and SUVmax (%SUVmax) were evaluated for the response to treatment. The therapeutic response was assessed after the last cycle of treatment according to the revised response criteria for malignant lymphoma (revised RC). We evaluated 134 lesions in 39 patients (76%) achieving complete response (CR) and 41 lesions in 10 patients (24%) not achieving CR. The Max PD, Min PD, SPD and SUVmax of the lesions after the last cycle were significantly higher in patients with non-CR than in patients with CR. The %MPD, %SPD and %SUVmax of the lesions were significantly greater in patients with CR than in patients with non-CR (P < 0.0001). Metabolic reduction was observed in all target lesions of relapsed or refractory patients with FL and MCL who achieved CR after bendamustine therapy.
Comparison of peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness measured by spectral vs. time domain optical coherence tomography.	To compare the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness measured by spectral and time domain optical coherence tomography (OCT).
Derivation and validation of REASON: a risk score identifying candidates to screen for peripheral arterial disease using ankle brachial index.	The recommendation of screening with ankle brachial index (ABI) in asymptomatic individuals is controversial. The aims of the present study were to develop and validate a pre-screening test to select candidates for ABI measurement in the Spanish population 50-79 years old, and to compare its predictive capacity to current Inter-Society Consensus (ISC) screening criteria.
Chronic cough and irritable larynx.	Perennial rhinitis (PR), chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS), or both, asthma, and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) are the most frequent triggers of chronic cough (CC). Extrathoracic airway receptors might be involved in all 3 conditions because asthma is often associated with PR/CRS and gastroesophageal refluxate might reach the upper airway. We previously found that most patients with rhinosinusitis, postnasal drip, and pharyngolaryngitis show laryngeal hyperresponsiveness (LHR; ie, vocal cord adduction on histamine challenge) that is consistent with an irritable larynx.
Is apparent diffusion coefficient associated with clinical risk scores for prostate cancers that are visible on 3-T MR images?	To investigate whether apparent diffusion coefficients (ADCs) derived from diffusion-weighted (DW) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging at 3 T correlate with the clinical risk of prostate cancer in patients with tumors that are visible on MR images, with MR imaging/transrectal ultrasonography (US) fusion-guided biopsy as a reference.
Pitot-tube flowmeter for quantification of airflow during sleep.	The gold-standard pneumotachograph is not routinely used to quantify airflow during overnight polysomnography due to the size, weight, bulkiness and discomfort of the equipment that must be worn. To overcome these deficiencies that have precluded the use of a pneumotachograph in routine sleep studies, our group developed a lightweight, low dead space 'pitot flowmeter' (based on pitot-tube principle) for use during sleep. We aimed to examine the characteristics and validate the flowmeter for quantifying airflow and detecting hypopneas during polysomnography by performing a head-to-head comparison with a pneumotachograph. Four experimental paradigms were utilized to determine the technical performance characteristics and the clinical usefulness of the pitot flowmeter in a head-to-head comparison with a pneumotachograph. In each study (1-4), the pitot flowmeter was connected in series with a pneumotachograph under either static flow (flow generator inline or on a face model) or dynamic flow (subject breathing via a polyester face model or on a nasal mask) conditions. The technical characteristics of the pitot flowmeter showed that, (1) the airflow resistance ranged from 0.065  0.002 to 0.279  0.004 cm H(2)O L(-1) s(-1) over the airflow rates of 10 to 50 L min(-1). (2) On the polyester face model there was a linear relationship between airflow as measured by the pitot flowmeter output voltage and the calibrated pneumotachograph signal a ((1) = 1.08 V L(-1) s(-1); (0) = 2.45 V). The clinically relevant performance characteristics (hypopnea detection) showed that (3) when the pitot flowmeter was connected via a mask to the human face model, both the sensitivity and specificity for detecting a 50% decrease in peak-to-peak airflow amplitude was 99.2%. When tested in sleeping human subjects, (4) the pitot flowmeter signal displayed 94.5% sensitivity and 91.5% specificity for the detection of 50% peak-to-peak reductions in pneumotachograph-measured airflow. Our data validate the pitot flowmeter for quantification of airflow and detecting breathing reduction during polysomnographic sleep studies. We speculate that quantifying airflow during sleep can differentiate phenotypic traits related to sleep disordered breathing.
Biological variation of brain natriuretic peptide and cardiac events in stable outpatients with nonischemic chronic heart failure.	To evaluate the biological variation and prognostic value of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) for stable outpatients with nonischemic chronic heart failure (NICHF).
Low aryl hydrocarbon receptor-interacting protein expression is a better marker of invasiveness in somatotropinomas than Ki-67 and p53.	Some pituitary adenomas exhibit fast growth and invade surrounding structures. To date, there is no robust marker to predict invasiveness.
Diagnostic accuracy of P-wave dispersion in prediction of maintenance of sinus rhythm after external cardioversion of atrial fibrillation.	P-wave dispersion (PWD) is an electrocardiographic measurement, which reflects a disparity in an atrial conduction. In this study, we aim to demonstrate the diagnostic accuracy of PWD in predicting recurrence of atrial fibrillation (AF) in patients with sinus rhythm restoration after external cardioversion.
Fall risk factors in community-dwelling elderly who receive Medicaid-supported home- and community-based care services.	This study identifies fall risk factors in an understudied population of older people who receive community-based care services.
BINS validation - Bayley neurodevelopmental screener in Brazilian preterm children under risk conditions.	Psychometric researches increase in Brazil. Bayley Infant Neurodevelopment Screener - BINS (Aylward, 1995) is a low cost, fast instrument. In 10' it classifies children under developmental risk degrees. This research purpose was investigating BINS psychometric properties. 61 low-income Brazilian preterm, were divided in groups: 31 children (12 months) and 30 children (24 months), both sex, birth weight < 2000 g. Socio-demographic-psychological profile was previously registered. Neurologists examined them through Amiel-Tison and Gosselin (2001) and physicians with Denver-DDST-II (Frankenburg, Dodds, Archer, & Bresnick, 1990). Psychologist assessed children at chronological age, with Bayley Scales-BSID-II (Bayley, 1993) and BINS (12 m) and BINS (24 m). Results demonstrated homogeneous characteristics sample. Reliability indexes were over requested standards. Validity evidences based on external variables were positive moderated and BINS (24 m)/BSID-II (mental) presented high correlation. Validity evidences based on content were attested by expertise. High sensitivity was found. So, BINS can be considered an instrument of adequate psychometric properties, able to screen children under risk, according to Psychological Association requests.
Novel methodology for the detection of exercise-induced myocardial wall motion abnormalities by surface electrocardiogram during exercise test.	We investigated whether ischemia-induced wall motion abnormalities during exercise test modify electrical vector variation.
Serum thyroglobulin predicts thyroid remnant ablation failure with 30 mCi iodine-131 treatment in patients with papillary thyroid carcinoma.	Most patients with differentiated thyroid cancer are treated with radioiodine (131-I) after thyroidectomy. The characteristics predictive of successful remnant ablation with low activities of 131-I are ill defined and could help stratify patients into those who should receive higher activities.
Cross-validation of a modified score to predict mortality in cancer patients admitted to the intensive care unit.	The aim of this study was to cross-validate an automated and customized severity of illness score as a means of predicting death among adult cancer patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU).
Axial-shear strain elastography for breast lesion classification: further results from in vivo data.	The purpose of this work was to investigate the potential of the normalized axial-shear strain area (NASSA) feature, derived from axial-shear strain elastograms (ASSE), for breast lesion classification of fibroadenoma and cancer. This study consisted of previously acquired in vivo digital radiofrequency data of breast lesions. A total of 33 biopsy-proven malignant tumors and 30 fibroadenoma cases were included in the study, which involved three observers blinded to the original BIRADS-ultrasound scores. The observers outlined the lesions on the sonograms. The ASSEs were segmented and color-overlaid on the sonograms, and the NASSA feature from the ASSE was computed semi-automatically. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were then generated and the area under the curve (AUC) was calculated for each observer performance. A logistic regression classifier was built to compare the improvement in the AUC when using BIRADS scores plus NASSA values as opposed to BIRADS scores alone. BIRADS score ROC had an AUC of 0.89 (95% CI = 0.81 to 0.97). In comparison, the average of the AUC for all the three observers using ASSE feature alone was 0.84. However, the AUC increased to 0.94 (average of 3 observers) when BIRADS score and ASSE feature were combined. The results demonstrate that the NASSA feature derived from ASSE has the potential to improve BIRADS breast lesion classification of fibroadenoma and malignant tumors.
Comparison of MR imaging and FDG-PET/CT in the differential diagnosis of benign and malignant vertebral compression fractures.	Differentiation between malignant and benign vertebral compression fractures (VCFs) is important but sometimes difficult, especially in elderly cancer patients. The authors investigated the findings of MR imaging and FDG-PET/CT for the differentiation of VCFs.
Validity of the International HIV Dementia Scale in South Africa.	HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) remain prevalent, especially in regions like South Africa where HIV prevalence is high but access to antiretroviral treatment (ART) is limited. The incidence of HIV dementia (HAD) has been halved with the use of ART, but the prevalence remains high. Appropriate brief screening tools to screen for HAD are needed in order to facilitate treatment initiation. The validity of the International HIV Dementia Scale has not been established in a region where infection with HIV clade C is predominant. The International HIV Dementia Scale (IHDS) was administered together with a detailed neuropsychological test battery to 96 HIV-positive individuals who had not received ART and who were attending primary care HIV clinics. The validity of the IHDS was established using a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. HIV-positive individuals displayed greater impairment when compared to HIV-negative controls on the IHDS and a range of neuropsychological tests. Neuropsychological tests discriminated well across HAND categories for HIV-positive individuals. In ROC analysis, the IHDS showed an area under the curve of 0.64, with a sensitivity of 45% and specificity of 79% at a cutoff score of 10. Individuals with HAD, who screened negative on the IHDS, performed poorly on some tests of executive function. These data suggest that the IHDS may have limitations as a tool to screen for HAD in South Africans infected with HIV. Variable performance in neuropsychological testing may account for false negative screens. The inclusion of brief tests of executive function in a screening battery should be considered.
Support vector machine model for diagnosis of lymph node metastasis in gastric cancer with multidetector computed tomography: a preliminary study.	Lymph node metastasis (LNM) of gastric cancer is an important prognostic factor regarding long-term survival. But several imaging techniques which are commonly used in stomach cannot satisfactorily assess the gastric cancer lymph node status. They can not achieve both high sensitivity and specificity. As a kind of machine-learning methods, Support Vector Machine has the potential to solve this complex issue.
Association of coronary artery stenosis with carotid atherosclerosis in asymptomatic type 2 diabetic patients.	Carotid atherosclerosis assessed by ultrasound is an established surrogate marker for systemic atherosclerosis. This study aimed to evaluate the association between coronary artery stenosis assessed by coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) and intima-media thickness (IMT) in asymptomatic type 2 diabetic patients.
Can body mass index, waist circumference, waist-hip ratio and waist-height ratio predict the presence of multiple metabolic risk factors in Chinese subjects?	Obesity is associated with metabolic risk factors. Body mass index (BMI), waist circumference, waist-hip ratio (WHR) and waist-height ratio (WHtR) are used to predict the risk of obesity related diseases. However, it has not been examined whether these four indicators can detect the clustering of metabolic risk factors in Chinese subjects.
Is the Berlin questionnaire a useful tool to diagnose obstructive sleep apnea in the elderly?	In the elderly, obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is frequently under diagnosed. This study was undertaken to assess the accuracy of the Berlin questionnaire to diagnose OSA in a large healthy elderly population.
Nonlinear dynamic modeling of synaptically driven single hippocampal neuron intracellular activity.	A high-order nonlinear dynamic model of the input-output properties of single hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons was developed based on synaptically driven intracellular activity. The purpose of this study is to construct a model that: 1) can capture the nonlinear dynamics of both subthreshold activities [postsynaptic potentials (PSPs)] and suprathreshold activities (action potentials) in a single formalism; 2) is sufficiently general to be applied to any spike-input and spike-output neurons (point process input and point process output neural systems); and 3) is computationally efficient. The model consisted of three major components: 1) feedforward kernels (up to third order) that transform presynaptic action potentials into PSPs; 2) a constant threshold, above which action potentials are generated; and 3) a feedback kernel (first order) that describes spike-triggered after-potentials. The model was applied to CA1 pyramidal cells, as they were electrically stimulated with broadband Poisson random impulse trains through the Schaffer collaterals. The random impulse trains used here have physiological properties similar to spiking patterns observed in CA3 hippocampal neurons. PSPs and action potentials were recorded from the soma of CA1 pyramidal neurons using whole-cell patch-clamp recording. We evaluated the model performance separately with respect to PSP waveforms and the occurrence of spikes. The average normalized mean square error of PSP prediction is 14.4%. The average spike prediction error rate is 18.8%. In summary, although prediction errors still could be reduced, the model successfully captures the majority of high-order nonlinear dynamics of the single-neuron intracellular activity. The model captures the general biophysical processes with a small set of open parameters that are directly constrained by the intracellular recording, and thus, can be easily applied to any spike-input and spike-output neuron.
Clinical significance of framingham risk score, flow-mediated dilation and pulse wave velocity in patients with stable angina.	To evaluate the age-adjusted Framingham risk score (AFRS), flow-mediated dilation (FMD) and brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV) for the prediction of the coronary heart disease (CHD) in patients with stable angina.
Exploiting correlation of ECG with certain EMD functions for discrimination of ventricular fibrillation.	Ventricular fibrillation (VF) is a life-threatening cardiac arrhythmia. A high impulse current is required in this stage to save lives. In this paper, an empirical mode decomposition (EMD) based algorithm is presented to separate VF from other arrhythmias. The characteristics of the VF signal has high degree of similarity with the intrinsic mode functions (IMFs) of the EMD decomposition in comparison to other ECG pathologies. This high correlation between the VF signal and its certain IMFs is exploited to separate VF from other cardiac pathologies. Reliable databases are used to verify effectiveness of our algorithm and the results demonstrate superiority of our proposed technique compared to other well-known techniques of VF discrimination.
The use of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index-2000 to define active disease and minimal clinically meaningful change based on data from a large cohort of systemic lupus erythematosus patients.	To examine SLEDAI-2000 cut-off scores for definition of active SLE and to determine the sensitivity to change of SLEDAI-2000 for the assessment of SLE disease activity and minimal clinically meaningful changes in score.
Prognostic significance of different measures of the ventilation-carbon dioxide relation in patients with suspected heart failure.	We studied the prognostic significance of the ventilatory equivalent of carbon dioxide production (VEqCO(2)) at different time-points of a maximal cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPET) in patients with suspected heart failure (HF).
Assessment of venous thrombus time of progression by gray-scale median analysis.	To determine if gray-scale median (GSM) analysis could differentiate acute and recent deep venous thrombosis (DVT).
Surgical site infection in abdominal trauma patients: risk prediction and performance of the NNIS and SENIC indexes.	The National Nosocomial Infections Surveillance (NNIS) and Efficacy of Nosocomial Infection Control (SENIC) indexes are designed to develop control strategies and to reduce morbidity and mortality rates resulting from infections in surgical patients. We sought to assess the application of these indexes in patients undergoing surgery for abdominal trauma and to develop an alternative model to predict surgical site infections (SSIs).
Prediction of 1-year clinical outcomes using the SYNTAX score in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention: a substudy of the STRATEGY (Single High-Dose Bolus Tirofiban and Sirolimus-Eluting Stent Versus Abciximab and Bare-Metal Stent in Acute Myocardial Infarction) and MULTISTRATEGY (Multicenter Evaluation of Single High-Dose Bolus Tirofiban Versus Abciximab With Sirolimus-Eluting Stent or Bare-Metal Stent in Acute Myocardial Infarction Study) trials.	This study sought to evaluate the impact of SYNTAX score (SXscore), and compare its performance in isolation and combination with the PAMI (The Primary Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction Study) score, for the prediction of 1-year clinical outcomes in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention.
Difference of culprit lesion morphologies between ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction and non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome: an optical coherence tomography study.	The aim of this study was to investigate the difference of culprit lesion morphologies assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT) between ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTEACS).
A meta-analysis of 99mTc-MIBI SPECT for detection of recurrent glioma after radiation therapy.	We performed a meta-analysis of the diagnostic accuracy of technetium-99m methoxyisobutylisonitrile ((99m)Tc-MIBI) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) for assessment of glioma recurrence in patients after radiation therapy. The "PubMed" database was searched for relevant papers. Two reviewers extracted the data on study characteristics and examination results independently, and assessed the methodological quality of each included study. Pooled estimates of sensitivity, specificity, diagnostic odds ratio (DOR), and summary receiver operating characteristic (SROC) curve were obtained. Six investigations met inclusion criteria. The sensitivity ranged from 0.733 to 0.984, and the specificity ranged from 0.750 to 0.955. The pooled sensitivity and specificity were 0.898 and 0.919. The positive likelihood ratio (LR+) ranged from 3.800 to 19.381, the negative likelihood ratio (LR-) ranged from 0.017 to 0.311, and the DOR ranged from 16.500 to 567.00. The pooled LR+, LR- and DOR were 10.913, 0.115 and 94.062, respectively. The area under the SROC curve was 0.9650. Our results indicate that (99m)Tc-MIBI SPECT is a highly sensitive and specific modality in assessing patients with suspected glioma recurrence after radiation therapy.
Utility of uncalibrated femoral stroke volume variation as a predictor of fluid responsiveness during the anhepatic phase of liver transplantation.	We evaluated the value of the stroke volume variation (SVV) calculated with the Vigileo monitor, which recently has been increasingly advocated for fluid management, as a predictor of fluid responsiveness during the anhepatic phase of liver transplantation (LT). We also compared SVV to the central venous pressure (CVP) and pulmonary arterial occlusion pressure (PAOP) in patients. Thirty-three adult recipients scheduled for elective living donor LT were enrolled in this study. Twenty minutes after the start of the anhepatic phase, the CVP, PAOP, approximate inferior vena caval pressure, femoral SVV, and cardiac output values were measured before and 12 minutes after fluid loading. Fluid loading was performed with a 6% hydroxyethyl starch solution (10 mL/kg). The responders were defined as patients whose cardiac index increased  15% after fluid loading. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis showed that only femoral SVV (area under the curve = 0.894, P = 0.0001) could be used to predict fluid responsiveness during the anhepatic phase of LT. The area under the ROC curve for femoral SVV was 0.894 (P = 0.0001), and it was significantly larger than those for CVP (area under the curve = 0.576, P = 0.004) and PAOP (area under the curve = 0.670, P = 0.021). Femoral SVV >8% identified the responders with a sensitivity of 89% and a specificity of 80%. Our results suggest that femoral SVV derived with the Vigileo monitor would be useful for fluid management during the anhepatic phase in LT recipients.
Classifying different types of double triggering based on airway pressure and flow deflection in mechanically ventilated patients.	Double-triggering (DT) is a frequent type of patient-ventilator asynchrony and has potentially severe consequences, such as alveolar overdistention or the generation of intrinsic PEEP. However, the first breath of DT could be patient-triggered (DT-P), auto-triggered (DT-A), or ventilator-triggered (DT-V).
Predicted postoperative product and diffusion heterogeneity index in the evaluation of candidates for lung resection.	The primary objective of this retrospective study was to evaluate whether abnormal predicted postoperative variables and predicted postoperative product are useful in predicting postoperative complications. The secondary objective was to assess whether an abnormal diffusion heterogeneity index is associated with increased postoperative complications.
Diagnostic utility of plasma procalcitonin for nosocomial pneumonia in the intensive care unit setting.	Nosocomial pneumonia is a difficult diagnosis to establish in the intensive care unit setting, due to the non-specific nature of the clinical and radiographic findings. Procalcitonin is a circulating biomarker that may become elevated in the presence of bacterial infection.
Prediction of stroke volume by global left ventricular longitudinal strain in patients undergoing assessment for cardiac transplantation.	Speckle-tracking echocardiography (STE) is a novel technique that can be used for assessment of left ventricular (LV) longitudinal deformation dynamics. Using cardiac catheterization as the reference standard, the aim of this study was to evaluate the relation between LV global longitudinal strain (GLS) assessed by STE and LV stroke volume in patients undergoing assessment for cardiac transplantation.
Monitoring adherence to drug treatment by using change in cholesterol concentration: secondary analysis of trial data.	To estimate the accuracy of monitoring cholesterol concentration for detecting non-adherence to lipid lowering treatment.
Detection and classification of calcifications on digital breast tomosynthesis and 2D digital mammography: a comparison.	The purpose of this article is to compare the ability of digital breast tomosynthesis and full field digital mammography (FFDM) to detect and characterize calcifications.
Diagnosis of peritoneal dissemination: comparison of 18F-FDG PET/CT, diffusion-weighted MRI, and contrast-enhanced MDCT.	The purpose of this study was to compare the diagnostic performance of (18)F-FDG PET/CT, MRI with and without diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), and contrast-enhanced MDCT in the detection of peritoneal dissemination of malignant tumors.
Validation of P2/MS and other noninvasive fibrosis scoring systems in the Korean population with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	P2/MS is a noninvasive marker for detecting hepatic fibrosis in patients with viral hepatitis. However, the applicability of P2/MS in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has not yet been validated. This study aimed to validate P2/MS and compare it to other noninvasive fibrosis scoring systems in Korean patients with NAFLD.
Using detection of survivin-expressing circulating tumor cells in peripheral blood to predict tumor recurrence following curative resection of gastric cancer.	The present study was designed to investigate the clinicopathological role of survivin-expressing circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and to determine whether the presence of survivin-expressing CTCs is an independent predictor of tumor recurrence following curative resection of gastric cancer.
Identification and validation of novel cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for staging early Alzheimer's disease.	Ideally, disease modifying therapies for Alzheimer disease (AD) will be applied during the 'preclinical' stage (pathology present with cognition intact) before severe neuronal damage occurs, or upon recognizing very mild cognitive impairment. Developing and judiciously administering such therapies will require biomarker panels to identify early AD pathology, classify disease stage, monitor pathological progression, and predict cognitive decline. To discover such biomarkers, we measured AD-associated changes in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteome.
The Short Nicotine Dependence Syndrome Scale (NDSS-S) in Spanish smokers]	We present a brief scale derived from the Nicotine Dependence Syndrome Scale (NDSS). We used a sample of 1.061 daily smokers, which was obtained from five Primary Care Health Centers, a Unit of Alcoholism, and a Smoking Cessation Unit. All smokers were evaluated with the NDSS and the SCID to assess nicotine dependence according to DSM-IV criteria. The results indicate the existence of a general factor of nicotine dependence according to the NDSS. We selected the items with a higher factor loading (>.50), obtaining a short scale of 6 items. With this brief scale, we obtained results similar to those of the total scale in the diverse variables (sociodemographic and smoking) of the study. Scale reliability is satisfactory (a= .79), the correlation between the short and the total scale is very high (r=.95, p<.001) and the short scale discriminates the smokers in terms of cigarette consumption and nicotine dependence, as assessed with the SCID. The operation under the ROC curve is excellent (area under the curve .84). The data indicate the usefulness of this brief scale (NDSS-S) to assess nicotine dependence in smokers.
Doppler criteria for identifying proximal vertebral artery stenosis of 50% or more.	The proximal segment of the vertebral artery is a frequent site of obstructive atherosclerosis. The purpose of this study was to determine Doppler criteria for identifying proximal vertebral artery stenosis of 50% or more by comparison with digital subtraction angiography.
Combination of EuroSCORE and cardiac troponin I improves the prediction of adverse outcome after cardiac surgery.	Reclassification tables have never been used to compare concentrations of cardiac troponin I (cTnI) with predictive models of risk in the perioperative setting. The current study aimed to evaluate the prognostic value of pre- and/or postoperative serum cTnI when combined with The European System for Cardiac Operative Risk Evaluation (EuroSCORE) in predicting adverse outcome after cardiac surgery.
Diagnostic value of serum CEACAM1 in patients with pancreatic cancer]	To investigate the diagnostic value of serum CEACAM1 in patients with pancreatic cancer.
Urinary C-peptide creatinine ratio is a practical outpatient tool for identifying hepatocyte nuclear factor 1-{alpha}/hepatocyte nuclear factor 4-{alpha} maturity-onset diabetes of the young from long-duration type 1 diabetes.	Hepatocyte nuclear factor 1- (HNF1A)/hepatocyte nuclear factor 4- (HNF4A) maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) is frequently misdiagnosed as type 1 diabetes, and patients are inappropriately treated with insulin. Blood C-peptide can aid in the diagnosis of MODY, but practical reasons limit its widespread use. Urinary C-peptide creatinine ratio (UCPCR), a stable measure of endogenous insulin secretion, is a noninvasive alternative. We aimed to compare stimulated UCPCR in adults with HNF1A/4A MODY, type 1 diabetes, and type 2 diabetes.
Relationship between carotid intima-media thickness and the presence and extent of coronary stenosis in type 2 diabetic patients with carotid atherosclerosis but without history of coronary artery disease.	We examined the relationship between the presence and extent of coronary stenosis and carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) in type 2 diabetic patients without history of coronary artery disease (CAD) but with carotid atherosclerosis.
PET and PET/CT of the neck lymph nodes improves risk prediction in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity.	We prospectively evaluated the sensitivity and specificity of (18)F-FDG PET in the detection of neck lymph node metastases in patients with oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). We also sought to evaluate whether pretreatment PET visual scores in the neck lymph nodes may improve risk stratification.
Relation of ankle-brachial index to the rate of decline of residual renal function in peritoneal dialysis patients.	The aim of this study was to determine whether ankle-brachial index (ABI) predicts the rate of decline of residual renal function (RRF) in peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients. Previous studies demonstrated the importance of loss of RRF in predicting all-cause risk and cardiovascular mortality in PD patients. It is also known that patients with a low ABI value have a greater risk for deteriorating renal function in the general population. The relationship between ABI and the declining rate of RRF in PD patients with an additional dialysis-specific risk factor is uncertain.
Correlation between coagulopathy and outcome in severe head trauma in neurointensive care and trauma units.	Abnormal blood coagulation after traumatic brain injury is a common finding. Some studies have proposed these changes as useful predictors of outcome in patients with head trauma. This study aimed at evaluating the association of the routine tests of blood coagulation within the first hours after severe head trauma with prognosis of patients with severe head trauma.
Differentiation of malignant and benign pulmonary nodules with quantitative first-pass 320-detector row perfusion CT versus FDG PET/CT.	To prospectively compare the capability of quantitative first-pass perfusion 320-detector row computed tomography (CT) (ie, area-detector CT) with that of combined positron emission tomography and CT (PET/CT) for differentiation between malignant and benign pulmonary nodules.
Liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C: noninvasive diagnosis by means of real-time tissue elastography--establishment of the method for measurement.	To prospectively measure liver stiffness with real-time tissue elastography in patients with chronic hepatitis C and to compare the results with those of clinical assessment of fibrosis by using histologic stage as the reference standard.
Household expenditure and tuberculosis prevalence in VietNam: prediction by a set of household indicators.	To study the association between TB and household expenditure in a nationwide TB prevalence survey in Viet Nam using nine household characteristics.
Combination of copeptin and high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T assay in unstable angina and non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: a pilot study.	High-sensitivity cardiac troponin assays have improved the detection of acute coronary syndrome.
PSA mass as a marker of prostate cancer progression after radical prostatectomy.	Obese patients with prostate cancer may have lower preoperative PSA concentration due to hemodilution. Lower PSA concentration may falsely affect assessing the risk of progression after radical prostatectomy (RP). The aim of this study was to determine preoperative PSA mass as the absolute amount of PSA protein secreted into circulation, and evaluation of its usefulness in prediction of biochemical recurrence after RP.
Evaluation of the accuracy of manual and automatic scoring of a single airflow channel in patients with a high probability of obstructive sleep apnea.	ApneaLink (AL) is a single-channel type-4 device that measures airflow. A limited number of studies have assessed AL's usefulness in diagnosing obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) using automated scoring alone. This study was conducted to assess the sensitivity and specificity of AL in a selected group of people with clinical suspicion of OSA, using both automatic and manual scoring and comparing the results with those obtained for polysomnography (PSG).
Confirmatory factor analysis of the stagnation scale--a traditional Chinese medicine construct operationalized for mental health practice.	Traditional Chinese medicine stagnation ("yu") syndrome is characterized by a cluster of mind/body obstruction-like symptoms. Previous studies have operationalized the concept as a psychological construct through scale development, producing a three-factor 16-item inventory with good psychometric properties.
Digital image analysis of liver collagen predicts clinical outcome of recurrent hepatitis C virus 1 year after liver transplantation.	Clinical outcomes of recurrent hepatitis C virus after liver transplantation are difficult to predict. We evaluated collagen proportionate area (CPA), a quantitative histological index, at 1 year with respect to the first episode of clinical decompensation. Patients with biopsies at 1 year after liver transplantation were evaluated by Ishak stage/grade, and biopsy samples stained with Sirius red for digital image analysis were evaluated for CPA. Cox regression was used to evaluate variables associated with first appearance of clinical decompensation. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were also used. A total of 135 patients with median follow-up of 76 months were evaluated. At 1 year, median CPA was 4.6% (0.2%-36%) and Ishak stage was 0-2 in 101 patients, 3-4 in 23 patients, and 5-6 in 11 patients. Decompensation occurred in 26 (19.3%) at a median of 61 months (15-138). Univariately, CPA, tacrolimus monotherapy, and Ishak stage/grade at 1 year were associated with decompensation; upon multivariate analysis, only CPA was associated with decompensation (P = 0.010; Exp(B) = 1.169; 95%CI, 1.037-1.317). Area under the ROC curve was 0.97 (95%CI, 0.94-0.99). A cutoff value of 6% of CPA had 82% sensitivity and 95% specificity for decompensation. In the 89 patients with hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) measurement, similar results were obtained. When both cutoffs of CPA > 6% and HVPG  6 mm Hg were used, all patients decompensated. Thus, CPA at 1-year biopsy after liver transplantation was highly predictive of clinical outcome in patients infected with hepatitis C virus who underwent transplantation, better than Ishak stage or HVPG.
Improving precision in the quantification of cognition using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment and the Mini-Mental State Examination.	The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) can be used to quantify cognitive ability in older persons undergoing screening for cognitive impairment. Although highly sensitive in detecting mild cognitive impairment, its measurement precision is weakest among persons with milder forms of impairment. We sought to overcome this limitation by integrating information from the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) into the calculation of cognitive ability.
Genetic variants of diabetes risk and incident cardiovascular events in chronic coronary artery disease.	To determine whether information from genetic risk variants for diabetes is associated with cardiovascular events incidence.
Generalized Anxiety Disorder in youth: diagnostic considerations.	Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) in youth is characterized by excessive worry across domains for  6 months, an inability to stop worrying, and at least one physiological symptom. This study examined the multiple domains that optimally distinguish (1) GAD youth from nonanxiety-disordered youth and (2) GAD youth from other anxiety-disordered youth.
Cystatin C as an early biomarker of nephropathy in patients with type 2 diabetes.	This study was done to evaluate clinical usefulness of cystatin C levels of serum and urine in predicting renal impairment in normoalbuminuric patients with type 2 diabetes and to evaluate the association between albuminuria and serum/urine cystatin C. Type 2 diabetic patients (n = 332) with normoalbuminuria (n = 210), microalbuminuria (n = 83) and macroalbuminuria (n = 42) were enrolled. Creatinine, urinary albumin levels, serum/urine cystatin C and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR by MDRD [Modification of Diet in Renal Disease] and CKD-EPI [Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration] equations) were determined. The cystatin C levels of serum and urine increased with increasing degree of albuminuria, reaching higher levels in macroalbuminuric patients (P < 0.001). In multiple regression analysis, serum cystatin C was affected by C-reactive protein (CRP), sex, albumin-creatinine ratio (ACR) and eGFR. Urine cystatin C was affected by triglyceride, age, eGFR and ACR. In multivariate logistic analysis, cystatin C levels of serum and urine were identified as independent factors associated with eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) estimated by MDRD equation in patients with normoalbuminuria. On the other hand, eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) estimated by CKD-EPI equation was independently associated with low level of high-density lipoprotein in normoalbuminuric patients. The cystatin C levels of serum and urine could be useful markers for renal dysfunction in type 2 diabetic patients with normoalbuminuria.
With the "universal definition," measurement of creatine kinase-myocardial band rather than troponin allows more accurate diagnosis of periprocedural necrosis and infarction after coronary intervention.	We aimed to assess the differential implications of creatine kinase-myocardial band (CK-MB) and troponin measurement with the universal definition of periprocedural injury after percutaneous coronary intervention.
Glycodelin in endometrial flushing fluid and endometrial biopsies from infertile and fertile women.	To investigate in the natural cycle just before IVF, whether glycodelin levels in endometrial flushing fluid obtained days LH+1 and LH+7 can be used in predicting pregnancy in the following IVF cycle, and whether there are differences in women with tubal factor infertility compared to women with unexplained infertility and fertile controls.
Optimal filter framework for automated, instantaneous detection of lesions in retinal images.	Automated detection of lesions in retinal images is a crucial step towards efficient early detection, or screening, of large at-risk populations. In particular, the detection of microaneurysms, usually the first sign of diabetic retinopathy (DR), and the detection of drusen, the hallmark of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), are of primary importance. In spite of substantial progress made, detection algorithms still produce 1) false positives-target lesions are mixed up with other normal or abnormal structures in the eye, and 2) false negatives-the large variability in the appearance of the lesions causes a subset of these target lesions to be missed. We propose a general framework for detecting and characterizing target lesions almost instantaneously. This framework relies on a feature space automatically derived from a set of reference image samples representing target lesions, including atypical target lesions, and those eye structures that are similar looking but are not target lesions. The reference image samples are obtained either from an expert- or a data-driven approach. Factor analysis is used to derive the filters generating this feature space from reference samples. Previously unseen image samples are then classified in this feature space. We tested this approach by training it to detect microaneurysms. On a set of images from 2739 patients including 67 with referable DR, DR detection area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUC) was comparable (AUC=0.927) to our previously published red lesion detection algorithm (AUC=0.929). We also tested the approach on the detection of AMD, by training it to differentiate drusen from Stargardt's disease lesions, and achieved an AUC=0.850 on a set of 300 manually detected drusen and 300 manually detected flecks. The entire image processing sequence takes less than a second on a standard PC compared to minutes in our previous approach, allowing instantaneous detection. Free-response receiver-operating characteristic analysis showed the superiority of this approach over a framework where false positives and the atypical lesions are not explicitly modeled. A greater performance was achieved by the expert-driven approach for DR detection, where the designer had sound expert knowledge. However, for both problems, a comparable performance was obtained for both expert- and data-driven approaches. This indicates that annotation of a limited number of lesions suffices for building a detection system for any type of lesion in retinal images, if no expert-knowledge is available. We are studying whether the optimal filter framework also generalizes to the detection of any structure in other domains.
Fracture risk score and absolute risk of fracture.	To report the 5- and 10-year absolute risk of fracture associated with the previously reported fracture risk (FRISK) score.
Diagnostic accuracy and receiver-operating characteristics curve analysis in surgical research and decision making.	In surgical research, the ability to correctly classify one type of condition or specific outcome from another is of great importance for variables influencing clinical decision making. Receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis is a useful tool in assessing the diagnostic accuracy of any variable with a continuous spectrum of results. In order to rule a disease state in or out with a given test, the test results are usually binary, with arbitrarily chosen cut-offs for defining disease versus health, or for grading of disease severity. In the postgenomic era, the translation from bench-to-bedside of biomarkers in various tissues and body fluids requires appropriate tools for analysis. In contrast to predetermining a cut-off value to define disease, the advantages of applying ROC analysis include the ability to test diagnostic accuracy across the entire range of variable scores and test outcomes. In addition, ROC analysis can easily examine visual and statistical comparisons across tests or scores. ROC is also favored because it is thought to be independent from the prevalence of the condition under investigation. ROC analysis is used in various surgical settings and across disciplines, including cancer research, biomarker assessment, imaging evaluation, and assessment of risk scores.With appropriate use, ROC curves may help identify the most appropriate cutoff value for clinical and surgical decision making and avoid confounding effects seen with subjective ratings. ROC curve results should always be put in perspective, because a good classifier does not guarantee the expected clinical outcome. In this review, we discuss the fundamental roles, suggested presentation, potential biases, and interpretation of ROC analysis in surgical research.
Cervicovaginal interleukin-6 as a predictor of preterm birth in African American women.	Identification of women who will deliver preterm may reduce infant morbidity and mortality. In heterogeneous populations, fetal fibronectin (fFN) and interleukin-6 are excellent predictors of women who will not deliver within two weeks. African-Americans are at higher risk for preterm birth than Caucasians. This study compares the diagnostic utility of fFN and interleukin-6 in cervicovaginal fluid (CVF) to predict preterm birth within 14 days of sampling in African-American and Caucasian women.
Comparison of four early posttherapy imaging changes (EPTIC; RECIST 1.0, tumor shrinkage, computed tomography tumor density, Choi criteria) in assessing outcome to vascular endothelial growth factor-targeted therapy in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma.	Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-targeted therapy has become standard treatment for patients with metastatic renal cell cancer (mRCC). Since these therapies can induce tumor necrosis and minimal tumor shrinkage, Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) may not be optimal for predicting clinical outcome.
Tear osmolarity in the diagnosis and management of dry eye disease.	To evaluate the use of tear osmolarity in the diagnosis of dry eye disease.
A comparative effectiveness analysis of alternative strategies to assess hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function after microsurgical resection of pituitary tumors.	Observational methods can be used in conjunction with the comparative effectiveness research (CER) paradigm to inform decisions between alternative patient management strategies in real-world clinical settings.
Transcranial Doppler to screen on admission patients with mild to moderate traumatic brain injury.	Detecting patients at risk for secondary neurological deterioration (SND) after mild to moderate traumatic brain injury is challenging.
Prognostic cytokine markers in peripheral blood for oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma identified by multiplexed immunobead-based profiling.	Oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is one of the most common cancers worldwide and has been considered to be highly associated with altered biological processes, including immunocyte chemotaxis, inflammatory response, angiogenesis, and/or immune regulation, suggesting that the levels of the tumor-related cytokines and chemokines will be dysregulated in the tumor microenvironment as well as in the systemic circulation and might be associated with some OSCC phenotypes.
Classification of paroxysmal and persistent atrial fibrillation in ambulatory ECG recordings.	The problem of classifying short atrial fibrillatory segments in ambulatory ECG recordings as being either paroxysmal or persistent is addressed by investigating a robust approach to signal characterization. The method comprises preprocessing estimation of the dominant atrial frequency for the purpose of controlling the subbands of a filter bank, computation of the relative subband (harmonics) energy, and the subband sample entropy. Using minimum-error-rate classification of different feature vectors, a data set consisting of 24-h ambulatory recordings from 50 subjects with either paroxysmal (26) or persistent (24) atrial fibrillation (AF) was analyzed on a 10-s segment basis; a total of 212,196 segments were classified. The best performance in terms of area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was obtained for a feature vector defined by the subband sample entropy of the dominant atrial frequency and the relative harmonics energy, resulting in a value of 0.923, whereas that of the dominant atrial frequency was equal to 0.826. It is concluded that paroxysmal and persistent AFs can be discriminated from short segments with good accuracy at any time of an ambulatory recording.
Fasting plasma glucose reference values among young Japanese women requiring 75g oral glucose tolerance tests.	Currently there are various discussions on the upper limit of FPG (Fasting Plasma Glucose) levels. In Japan, when abnormal levels of FPG are detected at general health checkups or complete physical examinations, 75g Oral Glucose Tolerance Tests (75g OGTT) are often conducted in follow-up examinations. Therefore we investigated the appropriate upper limit of FPG levels to decide whether 75g OGTT are actually necessary.
Antigen-induced arthritis in rabbits: a comparative study between high-resolution ultrasound and contrast-enhanced ultrasound and pathologic findings.	The objective of this study was to explore the feasibility and value of high-resolution ultrasound and contrast-enhanced ultrasound in evaluation of synovitis in rabbit knee joint in antigen-induced arthritis (AIA). Thirty-six rabbits were divided into three groups, each injected with different doses of ovalbumin (OVA) into the right knee joint. On week 1 and 4, 6 randomly selected in each group were killed. Each knee joint undergone the high-resolution ultrasound to measure capsule thickness and contrast-enhanced ultrasound to measure synovium thickness. The results from the ultrasound examinations were compared with those of pathologic examinations. Different OVA doses resulted in different modeling success rate, different pathological synovitis score, and different capsule and synovium thickness measured by ultrasound. The diagnostic accuracy of synovitis by ultrasound was high. The ultrasound measurement revealed that the capsule thickness on week 4 was lessened than that on week 1, while the synovial thickness on week 4 was greater than that on week 1. Both the joint capsule and synovium thickness measured by ultrasound were significantly and positively correlated to the pathologic synovitis score (P<0.05). The synovial thickness on week 4 is more correlated to the synovitis score than the capsule thickness, rather than that on week 1. Injection of OVA of different doses results in different modeling success rate and synovitis severity. The high-resolution ultrasound and contrast-enhanced ultrasound can be used to determine whether the AIA was made successfully and evaluate the synovitis severity. In chronic inflammatory phase, the contrast-enhanced ultrasound has better effect.
Predictive factors related to progression toward rheumatoid arthritis in Korean patients with undifferentiated arthritis.	Some patients with undifferentiated arthritis (UA) experience spontaneous remission; however, one-third of patients progress to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in the final process of the disease. This study evaluated clinical variables in order to find a prediction model that could predict the development of RA in patients with UA. The medical records of 164 patients, who were initially diagnosed with undifferentiated arthritis in Yonsei University Medical Center from January 2004 to December 2007, were retrospectively reviewed. They were followed up for at least 6months. The clinical variables related to the development of RA were identified by univariate analyses. Using logistic regression analysis, the prediction model was made and the diagnostic performance of the model was evaluated. Thirty-two patients of the 164 total patients progressed to RA during the follow-up period. The prediction model was composed of clinical factors including the duration of morning stiffness, the number of tender joints, the number of swollen joints, C-reactive protein level, rheumatoid factor, anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide antibody, and erosive change on baseline X-ray. The prediction score ranged from 0 to 10. All of the patients with a higher prediction score greater than five experienced RA progression. The area under the curve value for the prediction rule was 0.976. The prediction model could predict progression to RA in patients with UA. It especially helps the clinician to decide on a management plan for patients with a high prediction score.
N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide is an independent predictor of all-cause mortality and MACE after major vascular surgery in medium-term follow-up.	Recent interest has focussed on the role of biomarkers to predict outcome in patients undergoing major vascular surgery. We wished to determine if pre- and postoperative N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-pro-BNP) levels could predict all-cause mortality (ACM; primary aim) and major adverse cardiac event (MACE) (secondary aim) in the medium-term follow-up in patients who have undergone elective major vascular surgery.
Validating the accuracy of a model to predict the onset of myopia in children.	To assess the sensitivity and specificity of models predicting myopia onset among ethnically Chinese children.
Observer agreement of lower limb venous reflux assessed by duplex ultrasound scanning using manual and pneumatic cuff compression in patients with chronic venous disease and controls.	The study aimed to evaluate observer agreement between two experienced ultrasound operators examining deep venous reflux assessed by duplex ultrasound (DU) using either manual or pneumatic cuff compression. In addition, the two methods were compared with each other with regard to immediate "eyeballing" and direct measurements of reflux time from Doppler flow curves.
Relationship of asymmetric dimethylarginine with penile Doppler ultrasound parameters in men with vasculogenic erectile dysfunction.	Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), a selective endogenous nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, is elevated in many conditions associated with erectile dysfunction (ED), such as hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and renal failure; it is also increased in men with coronary artery disease and ED. The dynamic penile colour Doppler ultrasound is considered the gold standard for the evaluation of penile vascular damage.
Application of ROC curve analysis to FAMACHA evaluation of haemonchosis on two sheep farms in South Africa.	Test sensitivity and specificity for the FAMACHA() clinical test for anaemia due to haemonchosis have previously been shown to be adequate in differentiating between heavily/less heavily infected sheep, but these properties give no objective guidance for setting the optimum threshold at which anthelmintic treatment should occur. The aim of this work was to use Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of FAMACHA() testing by estimating the area under the ROC curve, and to use two-graph ROC curves to decrease subjectivity in selecting treatment thresholds on two farms with contrasting management. Test diagnostic accuracy, and thus discriminating power as determined by the area under the ROC curves, ranged from "moderate to good" on the first farm, and from "moderate to high" on the second farm for haematocrit (the Gold Standard for the test) cut-offs of  22% and  19% on both farms respectively. Accuracy of classification between haematocrit cut-offs was not significantly different within farms, but did differ significantly between farms, with test accuracy being highest on the second farm at both haematocrit cut-offs (p<0.05). The results also showed the suitability of the two-graph ROC curve approach for discriminating not only between different levels of accuracy of evaluators, but also to give an indication of the so-called ROC cut point (i.e. the desired threshold level) at which animals should be treated for a given level of risk of loss. The approach appears to have the potential not only to validate the diagnostic accuracy of the test across the complete testing range (i.e. all FAMACHA() categories from 1 to 5), but also to compensate for such inaccuracy by allowing objective adjustment of the threshold treatment level according to the output of the two-graph ROC method.
An empirical approach to model selection through validation for censored survival data.	Medical prognostic models can be designed to predict the future course or outcome of disease progression after diagnosis or treatment. The existing variable selection methods may be precluded by full model advocates when we build a prediction model owing to their estimation bias and selection bias in right-censored time-to-event data. If our objective is to optimize predictive performance by some criterion, we can often achieve a reduced model that has a little bias with low variance, but whose overall performance is enhanced. To accomplish this goal, we propose a new variable selection approach that combines Stepwise Tuning in the Maximum Concordance Index (STMC) with Forward Nested Subset Selection (FNSS) in two stages. In the first stage, the proposed variable selection is employed to identify the best subset of risk factors optimized with the concordance index using inner cross-validation for optimism correction in the outer loop of cross-validation, yielding potentially different final models for each of the folds. We then feed the intermediate results of the prior stage into another selection method in the second stage to resolve the overfitting problem and to select a final model from the variation of predictors in the selected models. Two case studies on relatively different sized survival data sets as well as a simulation study demonstrate that the proposed approach is able to select an improved and reduced average model under a sufficient sample and event size compared with other selection methods such as stepwise selection using the likelihood ratio test, Akaike Information Criterion (AIC), and lasso. Finally, we achieve better final models in each dataset than their full models by most measures. These results of the model selection models and the final models are assessed in a systematic scheme through validation for the independent performance.
The association between symptomatic delayed cerebral infarction and serum adhesion molecules in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.	Serum concentrations of adhesion molecules may be connected to the pathogenesis of delayed cerebral infarction (DCI) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH).
Association of decreased left atrial strain and strain rate with stroke in chronic atrial fibrillation.	The objective of this study was to investigate myocardial deformation of the left atrium (LA) assessed by two-dimensional speckle tracking echocardiography in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation (AF) and its value for risk stratification for stroke.
New computerized fetal heart rate analysis for surveillance of intrauterine growth restriction.	Decreased fetal heart rate variability is associated with higher perinatal morbidity and mortality in intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR). This study used a new method [phase-rectified signal averaging (PRSA)] to calculate acceleration- and deceleration-related fluctuations of the fetal heart rate.
Clinical assessment of the ultrasonographic measurement of antral area for estimating preoperative gastric content and volume.	This prospective observational study aimed to assess the feasibility and performance of the ultrasonographic measurement of antral cross-sectional area (CSA) for the preoperative assessment of gastric contents and volume in adult patients and for the diagnosis of risk stomach (defined by the presence of solid particles and/or gastric fluid volume >0.8 ml/kg).
Real-time ultrasound brain perfusion imaging with analysis of microbubble replenishment in acute MCA stroke.	Real-time ultrasound perfusion imaging (rt-UPI) allows visualization of microbubbles flowing through the cerebral microvasculature. We hypothesized that analysis of microbubble tissue replenishment would enable for characterization of perfusion deficits in acute middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory stroke. Twenty-three patients (mean age 70.2  13.2 years, 9 weeks) were included. Sequential images of bubble replenishment were acquired by transcranial rt-UPI at low mechanical index immediately after microbubble destruction. Different parameters were calculated from regions of interest (ROIs): real-time time to peak (rt-TTP), rise rate (), and plateau (A) of acoustic intensity, and A   was used as an index of blood flow. Results were compared with diffusion-weighted and perfusion magnetic resonance imaging. Parameters of rt-UPI had lower values in ROIs of ischemic as compared with normal tissue (=0.58  0.40 versus 1.25  0.83; P=0.001; A=1.44  1.75 versus 2.63  2.31; P=0.05; A  =1.14  2.25 versus 2.98  2.70; P=0.01). Real-time time to peak was delayed in ischemic tissue (11.43  2.67 versus 8.88  1.66 seconds; P<0.001). From the analysis of receiver operating characteristic curves,  and A   had the largest areas under the curve with optimal cutoff values of <0.76 and A  <1.91. We conclude that rt-UPI with analysis of microbubble replenishment correctly identifies ischemic brain tissue in acute MCA stroke.
Detection of liver malignancy with gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI: is addition of diffusion-weighted MRI beneficial?	To determine the additive value of diffusion-weighted MRI (DWI) to gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI for the detection of hepatic metastases and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Neuron-specific enolase, S100B, and glial fibrillary acidic protein levels as outcome predictors in patients with severe traumatic brain injury.	The availability of markers able to provide an early insight related to prognostic and functional outcome of patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI) are limited.
Usefulness of respiratory variation of inferior vena cava diameter for estimation of elevated central venous pressure in children with cardiovascular disease.	The purpose of the present study was to determine the relationship of inferior vena cava diameter (IVCD) and its respirophasic variation (IVC collapsibility index: IVCCI) with central venous pressure (CVP), and thereby to provide reference cut-offs for such IVC parameters to estimate elevation in CVP in pediatric patients with cardiovascular disease.
Changes in the amplitude of electrocardiogram QRS complexes during follow-up of heart failure patients.	Changes in the electrocardiogram QRS amplitudes (ECG) during follow-up of heart failure (HF) patients have not been clinically exploited heretofore.
NT-proBNP: a marker of preclinical cardiac damage in arterial hypertension.	The cardiac left ventricle responds to pressure overloads with mechanisms culminating in irreversible structural/functional cardiac alterations (left ventricular hypertrophy and/or diastolic dysfunction), inducing myocardial cells to secrete natriuretic peptides (NT-proBNP) antagonists of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of serum NT-proBNP levels in order to detect structural/functional cardiac diseases assessed by echocardiography.
Olfactory deficits in normal aging and Alzheimer's disease in the polish elderly population.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent cause of dementia. For this reason, a simple, reliable, and inexpensive method of early AD detection is urgently required. The location of neuropathological changes in AD patients indicates the potential diagnostic utility of olfactory tests. The purpose of this study was to compare odor identification performance among Polish subjects and to define the correlation between olfactory deficits and cognitive impairment. Olfactory identification performance was established in AD patients, and young and elderly healthy subjects using the Pocket Smell Test. AD Assessment Scale, the cognitive subscale, was used to evaluate cognitive functioning in the elderly participants. Compared with young subjects, the elderly individuals exhibited a diminished capacity to identify odors. AD patients also identified significantly fewer odors than healthy participants of the same age. In both the AD patients and the elderly control group, odor identification ability correlated with performance in cognitive tests. It may be concluded that deficits in olfactory identification occur in AD and may be valuable as an indicator of this condition.
Serum interleukin-6 concentration reflects the extent of asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction and predicts progression to heart failure in patients with stable coronary artery disease.	Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) remains one of the strongest predictors of long-term prognosis in patients with stable coronary artery disease (CAD). Asymptomatic left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVSD) often precedes clinically overt heart failure (HF) and is an area of extensive research nowadays. We studied the association between serum IL-6 concentrations and the extent of LV dysfunction in patients with asymptomatic LVSD. We aimed to investigate the diagnostic value of serum IL-6 concentrations in predicting the risk of progression to HF. Seventy-one patients entered the study and were divided into three groups based on LVEF: group 1 - patients with LVEF <30% (N=7), group 2 - patients with LVEF 30-50% (N=37) and group 3 - patients with LVEF >50% (N=27).
Cortical excitability distinguishes ALS from mimic disorders.	The diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) relies on stringent clinical criteria, resulting in diagnostic delay and inevitably the institution of appropriate therapy. Cortical hyperexcitability, as assessed by the novel threshold tracking transcranial magnetic stimulation (TTTMS) technique, appears as an early feature of ALS. Consequently, the present study assessed the diagnostic utility of threshold tracking TMS and developed algorithms to aid the diagnosis of ALS.
Leptin cut-off values for determination of metabolic syndrome: third national surveillance of risk factors of non-communicable diseases in Iran (SuRFNCD-2007).	Leptin is strongly contributed to the clustering of metabolic syndrome (MetS) components and potentially can be regarded as a single predictor of MetS. This population-based study, for the first time, reports the diagnostic accuracy of different leptin cut-points for determining MetS. Further, the current study compares the predictive ability of the appropriate threshold of leptin with insulin resistance. Data of the individuals without history of known diabetes mellitus, aged 25-64 years, from the third national surveillance of risk factors of non-communicable diseases (SuRFNCD-2007) were analyzed. MetS was defined due to either adult treatment panel III (ATPIII) or the modified international diabetes federation (IDF) criteria. Receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves were depicted to define cut-off of serum leptin, using the maximum Youden index and the shortest distance methods. Further, the values of leptin cut-offs in prediction of MetS were compared with those of insulin resistance (defined as homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance >1.775). In men, the optimal cut-offs of leptin for IDF- and ATPIII-defined MetS were 3.6 ng/ml (positive predictive value, PPV: 56.5%; negative predictive value, NPV: 72.7%) and 4.1 ng/ml (PPV: 49.6%; NPV: 78.1%), respectively. In women, the optimal threshold was equal to 11.0 ng/ml (PPV: 53.8%; NPV: 73.0% for IDF criteria and PPV: 60.1%; NPV: 64.9% for ATPIII criteria). The diagnostic accuracy of these values in identifying MetS was similar to that of insulin resistance. Therefore, leptin is comparable to insulin resistance in identifying MetS and can be used as single predictor of MetS.
Transcranial doppler ultrasound blood flow velocity and pulsatility index as systemic indicators for Alzheimer's disease.	Multiple lines of evidence suggest that cardiovascular co-morbidities hasten the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD) or accelerate its course.
Validating prediction models of kidney transplant outcome using single center data.	Prediction of kidney transplant outcome represents an important and clinically relevant problem. Although several prediction models have been proposed based on large, national collections of data, their utility at the local level (where local data distributions may differ from national data) remains unclear. We conducted a comparative analysis that modeled the outcome data of transplant recipients in the national US Renal Data System (USRDS) against a representative local transplant dataset at the University of Utah Health Sciences Center, a regional transplant center. The performance of an identical set of prediction models was evaluated on both national and local data to assess how well national models reflect local outcomes. Compared with the USRDS dataset, several key characteristics of the local dataset differed significantly (e.g., a much higher local graft survival rate; a much higher local percentage of white donors and recipients; and a much higher proportion of living donors). This was reflected in statistically significant differences in model performance. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve values of the models predicting 1, 3, 5, 7, and 10-year graft survival on the USRDS data were 0.59, 0.63, 0.76, 0.91, and 0.97, respectively. In contrast, in the local dataset, these values were 0.54, 0.58, 0.58, 0.61, and 0.70, respectively. Prediction models trained on a national set of data from the USRDS performed better in the national dataset than in the local data. This might be due to the differences in the data characteristics between the two datasets, suggesting that the wholesale adoption of a prediction model developed on a large national dataset to guide local clinical practice should be done with caution.
Maternal serum adiponectin at 11 to 13 weeks of gestation in the prediction of macrosomia.	To examine the potential role of maternal serum level of adiponectin in the first trimester of pregnancy in the prediction of neonatal macrosomia.
Evaluation of laryngoscopic views and related influencing factors in a pediatric population.	Management of the difficult pediatric airway is a serious problem that anesthesiologists face in their practice. However, guidelines for adults may not be applied readily to pediatric populations.
The association between body mass index and gestational diabetes mellitus varies by race/ethnicity.	We examined body mass index (BMI) as a screening tool for gestational diabetes (GDM) and its sensitivity among different racial/ethnic groups. In a retrospective cohort study of 24,324 pregnant women at University of California, San Francisco, BMI was explored as a screening tool for GDM and was stratified by race/ethnicity. Sensitivity and specificity were examined using chi-square test and receiver-operator characteristic curves. BMI of 25.0 kg/m (2) as a screening threshold identified GDM in >76% of African-Americans, 58% of Latinas, and 46% of Caucasians, but only 25% of Asians ( P<0.001). Controlling for confounders and comparing to a BMI of 25, African-Americans had the greatest increased risk of GDM (adjusted odds ratio [AOR] 5.1, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 3.0 to 8.5), followed by Caucasians (AOR 3.6, 95% CI: 2.7 to 4.8), Latinas (AOR 2.7, 95% CI: 1.9 to 3.8), and Asians (AOR 2.3, 95% CI: 1.8 to 3.0). BMI's screening characteristics to predict GDM varied by race/ethnicity. BMI can be used to counsel regarding the risk of developing GDM, but alone it is not a good screening tool.
Diagnostic accuracy of 1.5-T unenhanced whole-heart coronary MR angiography performed with 32-channel cardiac coils: initial single-center experience.	To compare the imaging time and image quality obtained with whole-heart coronary magnetic resonance (MR) angiography performed with five- and 32-channel coils in healthy subjects and determine the accuracy of MR angiography performed with 32-channel coils in the detection of obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD).
Urinary neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin distinguishes pre-renal from intrinsic renal failure and predicts outcomes.	In established acute kidney injury (AKI), serum creatinine poorly differentiates prerenal from intrinsic AKI. In this study, we tested whether urinary neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) distinguishes between intrinsic and prerenal AKI, and tested its performance in predicting a composite outcome that included progression to a higher RIFLE (Risk, Injury, Failure, Loss of function, End stage renal disease) class, dialysis, or death. Urinary NGAL was measured using a standardized clinical platform in 161 hospitalized patients with established AKI. Sixteen patients were excluded because of postrenal obstruction or insufficient clinical information. Of the remaining 145 patients, 75 had intrinsic AKI, 32 had prerenal AKI, and 38 patients could not be classified. Urinary NGAL levels effectively discriminated between intrinsic and prerenal AKI (area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve 0.87). An NGAL level over 104g/l indicated intrinsic AKI (likelihood ratio 5.97), whereas an NGAL level <47g/l made intrinsic AKI unlikely (likelihood ratio 0.2). Patients experiencing the composite outcome had significantly higher median urinary NGAL levels on inclusion. In logistic regression analysis, NGAL independently predicted the composite outcome when corrected for demographics, comorbidities, creatinine, and RIFLE class. Hence, urinary NGAL is useful in classifying and stratifying patients with established AKI.
Improving VEGFR-2 docking-based screening by pharmacophore postfiltering and similarity search postprocessing.	Conventional docking-based virtual screening (VS) of chemical databases is based on the ranking of compounds according to the values retrieved by a scoring function (typically, the binding affinity estimation). However, using the most suitable scoring function for each kind of receptor pocket is not always an effective process to rank compounds, and sometimes neither to distinguish between correct binding modes from incorrect ones. To improve actives from decoys selection, here we propose a three-step VS protocol, which includes the conventional docking step, a pharmacophore postfilter step, and a similarity search postprocess. This VS protocol is retrospectively applied to VEGFR-2 (Kdr-kinase) inhibitors. The resulting docking poses calculated using the Alpha HB scoring function implemented in MOE are postfiltered according to defined pharmacophore interactions (structure based). The selected poses are again ranked according to their molecular similarity (MACCS fingerprint) to the cognate ligand. Results show that both the overall and early VS performance improve the application of this protocol.
Random forests ensemble classifier trained with data resampling strategy to improve cardiac arrhythmia diagnosis.	Supervised classification algorithms are commonly used in the designing of computer-aided diagnosis systems. In this study, we present a resampling strategy based Random Forests (RF) ensemble classifier to improve diagnosis of cardiac arrhythmia. Random forests is an ensemble classifier that consists of many decision trees and outputs the class that is the mode of the class's output by individual trees. In this way, an RF ensemble classifier performs better than a single tree from classification performance point of view. In general, multiclass datasets having unbalanced distribution of sample sizes are difficult to analyze in terms of class discrimination. Cardiac arrhythmia is such a dataset that has multiple classes with small sample sizes and it is therefore adequate to test our resampling based training strategy. The dataset contains 452 samples in fourteen types of arrhythmias and eleven of these classes have sample sizes less than 15. Our diagnosis strategy consists of two parts: (i) a correlation based feature selection algorithm is used to select relevant features from cardiac arrhythmia dataset. (ii) RF machine learning algorithm is used to evaluate the performance of selected features with and without simple random sampling to evaluate the efficiency of proposed training strategy. The resultant accuracy of the classifier is found to be 90.0% and this is a quite high diagnosis performance for cardiac arrhythmia. Furthermore, three case studies, i.e., thyroid, cardiotocography and audiology, are used to benchmark the effectiveness of the proposed method. The results of experiments demonstrated the efficiency of random sampling strategy in training RF ensemble classification algorithm.
Overestimation of aerobic capacity with the bruce treadmill protocol in patients being assessed for suspected myocardial ischemia.	Peak oxygen uptake (VO) is prognostic for morbidity and mortality. Estimating aerobic capacity during traditional exercise stress testing is common as it has been shown that total treadmill time on the Bruce protocol predicts peak VO. However, the potential to overestimate peak VO2 exists and may have clinical implications regarding the interpretation of exercise test data.
Correlation between insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 serum level and melanoma progression.	Insulin-like growth factor (IGF) binding protein (IGFBP)-3 is the main carrier of circulating IGFs and the main modulator of their activity. IGFBP-3 controls cellular availability of IGFs, which cannot exert their pro-proliferative activity while bound to IGFBP-3. Proteolysis of IGFBP-3 is one mechanism to control IGF release. A reduction of serum IGFBP-3 levels and the associated increased availability of IGFs may represent a strategy whereby melanoma increases its metastatic potential.
Validity of the quantitative EEG statistical pattern recognition method in diagnosing Alzheimer's disease.	To evaluate the use of quantitative EEG (qEEG) statistical pattern recognition in diagnosing Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Perioperative risk factors for major complications in pediatric surgery: a study in surgical risk assessment for children.	There are numerous studies in the adult literature correlating comorbidities and pre- and intraoperative parameters with postoperative outcomes. However, there is a paucity of similar data in the pediatric population. Our goal was to elucidate which pre- and intraoperative patient characteristics in children undergoing surgery are associated with an increased risk of major complication within 30 days.
Determination of minimal clinically important change in early and advanced Parkinson's disease.	Two common primary efficacy outcome measures in Parkinson's disease (PD) are change in Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) scores in early PD and change in "off" time in patients with motor fluctuations. Defining the minimal clinically important change (MCIC) in these outcome measures is important to interpret the clinical relevance of changes observed in clinical trials and other situations. We analyzed data from 2 multicenter, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trials of rasagiline; TEMPO studied 404 early PD subjects, and PRESTO studied 472 levodopa-treated subjects with motor fluctuations. An anchor-based approach using clinical global impression of improvement (CGI-I) was used to determine MCIC for UPDRS scores and daily "off" time. MCIC was defined as mean change in actively treated subjects rated minimally improved on CGI-I. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves defined optimal cutoffs discriminating between changed and unchanged subjects. MCIC for improvement in total UPDRS score (parts I-III) in early PD was determined to be -3.5 points based on mean scores and -3.0 points based on ROC curves. In addition, we found an MCIC for reduction in "off" time of 1.0 hours as defined by mean reduction in "off" time in active treated subjects self-rated as minimally improved on CGI-I minus mean reduction in "off" time in placebo-treated subjects self-rated as unchanged (1.9-0.9 hours). We hypothesize that many methodological factors can influence determination of the MCIC, and a range of values is likely to emerge from multiple studies.
Target-specific support vector machine scoring in structure-based virtual screening: computational validation, in vitro testing in kinases, and effects on lung cancer cell proliferation.	We assess the performance of our previously reported structure-based support vector machine target-specific scoring function across 41 targets, 40 among them from the Directory of Useful Decoys (DUD). The area under the curve of receiver operating characteristic plots (ROC-AUC) revealed that scoring with SVM-SP resulted in consistently better enrichment over all target families, outperforming Glide and other scoring functions, most notably among kinases. In addition, SVM-SP performance showed little variation among protein classes, exhibited excellent performance in a test case using a homology model, and in some cases showed high enrichment even with few structures used to train a model. We put SVM-SP to the test by virtual screening 1125 compounds against two kinases, EGFR and CaMKII. Among the top 25 EGFR compounds, three compounds (1-3) inhibited kinase activity in vitro with IC of 58, 2, and 10 M. In cell cultures, compounds 1-3 inhibited nonsmall cell lung carcinoma (H1299) cancer cell proliferation with similar IC values for compound 3. For CaMKII, one compound inhibited kinase activity in a dose-dependent manner among 20 tested with an IC of 48 M. These results are encouraging given that our in-house library consists of compounds that emerged from virtual screening of other targets with pockets that are different from typical ATP binding sites found in kinases. In light of the importance of kinases in chemical biology, these findings could have implications in future efforts to identify chemical probes of kinases within the human kinome.
Prediction of the presence of renal artery stenosis by calcium scoring of the abdominal aorta.	To establish a method for estimating the probability of renal artery stenosis (RAS) based on the calcium volume score of the aorta (ACS).
Kurashiki Prehospital Stroke Subtyping Score (KP3S) as a means of distinguishing ischemic from hemorrhagic stroke in emergency medical services.	The aim of this study was to devise a new ischemic stroke (IS)/hemorrhagic stroke (HS) stroke score to distinguish IS from HS for emergency medical services (EMS).
Artificial Neural Networks for differential diagnosis of breast lesions in MR-Mammography: a systematic approach addressing the influence of network architecture on diagnostic performance using a large clinical database.	Differential diagnosis of lesions in MR-Mammography (MRM) remains a complex task. The aim of this MRM study was to design and to test robustness of Artificial Neural Network architectures to predict malignancy using a large clinical database.
B-type natriuretic peptide as an independent predictor of coronary disease extension in non-ST elevation coronary syndromes with preserved systolic function.	B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) has been employed as a risk marker in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) with ST elevation and non-ST elevation. It is not yet established if early BNP measurements provide additional information to troponin and electrocardiographic analysis in patients without ventricular enlargement and systolic dysfunction.
Comparison of prognostic value of two kinds of severity scoring systems for hospital mortality prediction of elderly patients with acute kidney injury.	Outcome prediction is important in clinical practice. Despite significant improvements in therapeutics, the mortality associated with acute kidney injury (AKI) in elderly patients remains high. Several severity scoring systems have been used in hospital mortality prediction of patients, but little is known of their significance in elderly patients with AKI. The aim of this study is to evaluate the ability of version II of Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE II) and Acute Tubular Necrosis Individual Severity Index (ATN-ISI) on predicting the hospital mortality of elderly patients with AKI.
Refining the definition of the malignant profile: insights from the DEFUSE-EPITHET pooled data set.	To refine the definition of the malignant magnetic resonance imaging profile in acute stroke patients using baseline diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) and perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (PWI) findings from the pooled DEFUSE/EPITHET database.
Validity of the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale to detect mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease and REM sleep behavior disorder.	Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is frequent in Parkinson's disease (PD) and idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder (iRBD). However, only a few studies have evaluated the validity of brief cognitive measures to detect MCI in PD or iRBD using standard diagnostic criteria for MCI. Our aim was to evaluate the validity of the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale (DRS-2) to detect MCI in PD and iRBD.
The application value of contrast-enhanced ultrasound in the differential diagnosis of pancreatic solid-cystic lesions.	To retrospectively determine the accuracy of baseline ultrasound (BUS) and of contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) in the differential diagnosis of pancreatic solid-cystic lesions.
Discovery of new nanomolar peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  activators via elaborate ligand-based modeling.	Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor  (PPAR) activators have drawn great recent attention in the clinical management of type 2 diabetes mellitus, prompting several attempts to discover and optimize new PPAR activators. With this in mind, we explored the pharmacophoric space of PPAR using seven diverse sets of activators. Subsequently, genetic algorithm and multiple linear regression analysis were employed to select an optimal combination of pharmacophoric models and 2D physicochemical descriptors capable of accessing self-consistent and predictive quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) (r2(71)=0.80, F=270.3, r2LOO=0.73, r2PRESS against 17 external test inhibitors=0.67). Three orthogonal pharmacophores emerged in the QSAR equation and were validated by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves analysis. The models were then used to screen the national cancer institute (NCI) list of compounds. The highest-ranking hits were tested in vitro. The most potent hits illustrated EC50 values of 15 and 224 nM.
The myocardial performance index (Tei-Index): correlation with seric NTproBNP levels in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy]	A combined myocardial performance index (isovolumic contraction time plus isovolumic relaxation time divided by ejection time, 'Tei-Index') has been applied in the echocardiographic evaluation of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). N-terminal pro brain natriuretic peptide (NTproBNP) is released from the left ventricular (LV) in response tomyocite stretch and is a powerful prognostic marker for heart failure.
Perioperative course of pulmonary hypertension in infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia: impact on outcome following successful repair.	Pulmonary hypertension (PH) associated with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) remains a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. For improved outcomes, preoperative stabilization is commonly practiced to control the PH in infants with CDH. Some CDH infants who have been considered stabilized and ready for surgery have nevertheless developed significant PH after surgical repair. In fact, the markers and consequences of the preoperative stabilization are still unclear. Therefore, we examine the perioperative course of PH to evaluate the impact of preoperative PH severity on mortality and morbidity of infants who underwent surgical repair of CDH.
Step length appears to be a strong discriminant gait parameter for elderly females highly concerned about falls: a cross-sectional observational study.	To determine if gait parameters and the Timed Up and Go test can discriminate between elderly females with high and low concern about falls. Knowledge of these parameters could help in the development of rehabilitation programmes focused on the prevention of falls, fear of falling and functional decline.
Contralateral lesions detected by preoperative MRI in patients with recently diagnosed breast cancer: application of MR CAD in differentiation of benign and malignant lesions.	To retrospectively investigate the added value of kinetic features measured by computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) for differentiating benign and malignant contralateral breast lesions detected by preoperative MRI in breast cancer patients.
Ferritin/alanine aminotransferase ratio as a possible marker for predicting the prognosis of acute liver injury.	 Serum levels of ferritin and heme oxygenase (HO)-1 are both markers of macrophage activation. We evaluated simple markers for predicting the prognosis of severe acute liver injury in which macrophage activation plays an important role.
Pancreatic iron stores assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in beta thalassemic patients.	To assess the correlation between MRI findings of the pancreas with those of the heart and liver in patients with beta thalassemia; to compare the pancreas T2* MRI results with glucose and ferritin levels and labile plasma iron (LPI).
Radionuclide evaluation of lung perfusion after transcatheter closure of patent ductus arteriosus: analysis of frequently used two different types of coils]	Impaired left lung perfusion (LLP) has been described after transcatheter closure of the patent ductus arteriosus (PDA). In this study, we aimed to evaluate lung perfusion scans (LPSs) following occlusion of PDA with two frequently used coils: Cook detachable coil and Gianturco coil.
Relationship between apparent diffusion coefficients at 3.0-T MR imaging and Gleason grade in peripheral zone prostate cancer.	To retrospectively determine the relationship between apparent diffusion coefficients (ADCs) obtained with 3.0-T diffusion-weighted (DW) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and Gleason grades in peripheral zone prostate cancer.
Facility monitoring of chemical warfare agent simulants in air using an automated, field-deployable, miniature mass spectrometer.	Vapors of four chemical warfare agent (CWA) stimulants, 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide (CEES), diethyl malonate (DEM), dimethyl methylphosphonate (DMMP), and methyl salicylate (MeS), were detected, identified, and quantitated using a fully automated, field-deployable, miniature mass spectrometer. Samples were ionized using a glow discharge electron ionization (GDEI) source, and ions were mass analyzed with a cylindrical ion trap (CIT) mass analyzer. A dual-tube thermal desorption system was used to trap compounds on 50:50 Tenax TA/Carboxen 569 sorbent before their thermal release. The sample concentrations ranged from low parts per billion [ppb] to two parts per million [ppm]. Limits of detection (LODs) ranged from 0.26 to 5.0 ppb. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves are presented for each analyte. A sample of CEES at low ppb concentration was combined separately with two interferents, bleach (saturated vapor) and diesel fuel exhaust (1%), as a way to explore the capability of detecting the simulant in an environmental matrix. Also investigated was a mixture of the four CWA simulants (at concentrations in air ranging from 270 to 380 ppb). Tandem mass (MS/MS) spectral data were used to identify and quantify the individual components.
Impaired biventricular deformation in Marfan syndrome: a strain and strain rate study in adult unoperated patients.	To investigate the presence of any regional myocardial deformation abnormalities in Marfan syndrome (MFS) and determine the benefits of using advanced echocardiography compared to conventional techniques.
Comparison of accuracy among three generations of Partin tables in a Chinese cohort.	To perform a head to head comparison among three generations of Partin tables, namely from 1997, 2001 and the last updated version of 2007, in a Chinese cohort of prostate cancer.
Immunologic profile of excessive body weight.	The purpose of this paper is to identify immunologic hallmarks of excessive bodyweight. The analysis is based on 176 adults (106 women, 70 men) who participated in a nested case-control study in Italy. All participants were healthy at the time of blood collection and aged between 36 and 75 years. We employed multivariate analysis of variance and a nonparametric Bayesian additive regression tree approach along with a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis to determine the immunologic signature of excessive body weight (i.e., obesity and overweight). Interleukin 8 (IL-8), IL-10, interferon , and inducible protein 10 were shown to be predictive of excessive body weight with an area under the ROC curve of 71% (p<0.0002). We propose that by using this profile-based approach to define immunologic signatures, it might be possible to identify unique immunologic hallmarks of specific types of obesity.
PCA3 urinary test versus 1H-MRSI and DCEMR in the detection of prostate cancer foci in patients with biochemical alterations.	To compare the prostate antigen 3 (PCA3) test with (1)H-magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging ((1)H-MRSI) and dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCEMR) combined examination in the detection of prostate tumor foci in patients with persistently elevated prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels and prior negative random transrectal ultrasound (TRUS)-guided biopsy.
CXCL4 and CXCL10 predict risk of fatal cerebral malaria.	Plasmodium falciparum in a subset of patients can lead to a diffuse encephalopathy known as cerebral malaria (CM). Despite treatment, mortality caused by CM can be as high as 30% while 10% of survivors of the disease may experience short- and long-term neurological complications. The pathogenesis of CM involves alterations in cytokine and chemokine expression, local inflammation, vascular injury and repair processes. These diverse factors have limited the rate of discovery of prognostic predictors of fatal CM. Identification of reliable early predictors of CM severity will enable clinicians to adjust this risk with appropriate management of CM. Recent studies revealed that elevated levels of CXCL10 expression in cerebrospinal fluid and peripheral blood plasma independently predicted severe and fatal CM. CXCR3, a promiscuous receptor of CXCL10, plays an important role in pathogenesis of mouse model of CM. In this study the role of corresponding CXCR3 ligands (CXCL11, CXCL10, CXCL9 & CXCL4) in fatal or severe CM was evaluated by comparing their levels in 16 healthy control (HC), 26 mild malaria (MM), 26 cerebral malaria survivors (CMS) and 12 non-survivors (CMNS) using enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Levels of CXCL4 and CXCL10 were significantly elevated in CMNS patients (p < 0.05) when compared with HC, MM and CMS. Elevated plasma levels of CXCL10 and CXCL4 were tightly associated with CM mortality. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis revealed that CXCL4 and CXCL10 can discriminate CMNS from MM (p < 0.0001) and CMS (p <0.0001) with an area under the curve (AUC)=1. These results suggest that CXCL4 and CXCL10 play a prominent role in pathogenesis of CM associated death and may be used as functional or surrogate biomarkers for predicting CM severity.
Endorectal MRI after radiation therapy: questioning the sextant analysis.	To evaluate whether the information gained by three coregistration systems (sextant, hemi-prostate, and whole gland) differs significantly, suggesting that one approach should be routinely favored over the others. Despite its known limitations, sextant is the generally accepted standard for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and biopsy coregistration; nevertheless, depending on the magnitude of localization errors, other options may be adequate.
Comparison of different methods to quantify future liver remnants after preoperative portal vein embolization to predict postoperative liver failure.	Even though preoperative portal vein embolization (PVE) can lead to hypertrophy of the future liver remnant (FLR) in candidates with small remnant liver prior to anticipated major hepatic resection, quantification of FLR after PVE is important to ensure adequate hepatic reserve in order to avoid postoperative hepatic failure. This study aims to determine the accuracy and reliability of three commonly used FLR quantification methods by correlating their ability to detect postoperative hepatic failure. The role of the degree of liver hypertrophy (DLH) in this context was also explored.
Enhanced prediction of mortality after percutaneous coronary intervention by consideration of general and neurological indicators.	This study sought to improve methodology for predicting post-percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) mortality.
Improved detection of subtle lung nodules by use of chest radiographs with bone suppression imaging: receiver operating characteristic analysis with and without localization.	The purpose of this article is to evaluate radiologists' ability to detect subtle nodules by use of standard chest radiographs alone compared with bone suppression imaging used together with standard radiographs.
A bayesian network for differentiating benign from malignant thyroid nodules using sonographic and demographic features.	The objective of our study was to create a Bayesian network (BN) that incorporates a multitude of imaging features and patient demographic characteristics to guide radiologists in assessing the likelihood of malignancy in suspicious-appearing thyroid nodules.
Comparison of CT urography and excretory urography in the detection and localization of urothelial carcinoma of the upper urinary tract.	The purpose of this study was to compare the accuracy of CT urography and excretory urography for the detection and localization of upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma.
Lewis(y) antigen (blood group 8, BG8) is a useful marker in the histopathological differential diagnosis of flat urothelial lesions of the urinary bladder.	The cell-surface carbohydrate Lewis(y) antigen (blood group 8, BG8) has recently been investigated in bladder cancer, but its role in the differential diagnosis of flat urothelial lesions of the bladder has not yet been systematically evaluated.
Usefulness of concanavalin-A non-binding fraction of Strongyloides venezuelensis larvae to detect IgG and IgA in human strongyloidiasis.	Glycosylated components from Strongyloides have an important role in parasite establishment and host recognition of these substances. Considering the sugar-binding capacity of lectins, such as concanavalin-A (Con-A), IgG and IgA detection in serum samples from strongyloidiasis patients was tested using different antigenic preparations. The total saline extract (SE) of Strongyloides venezuelensis filariform larvae was fractionated in Con-A column to obtain Con-A unbound (Con-A UF) and Con-A bound (Con-A BF) fractions. Sensitivity (Se), specificity (Sp), area under the ROC curve (AUC), likelihood ratio (LR), and correlation coefficients were calculated. Con-A UF showed the highest diagnostic parameters for IgG detection (Se 95.0%, Sp 92.5%, AUC 0.99, LR 12.7) and high correlation (r = 0.700) with SE. Con-A fractions did not clearly demonstrate any usefulness for IgA detection. In conclusion, the results obtained demonstrate that Con-A UF is an important source of specific peptides efficient to detect IgG in strongyloidiasis immunodiagnosis.
Evaluation of an infrared thermal detection system for fever recognition during the H1N1 influenza pandemic.	Infrared thermal detection systems (ITDSs) have been utilized in several countries to screen for fever in travelers. Since fever screening with an ITDS is rapid and noninvasive, this technology may be useful as an infection control measure in clinical settings during a pandemic.
Verification of validity of MPM II for neurological patients in intensive care units]	Mortality Probability Model (MPM) II is a model for predicting mortality probability of patients admitted to ICU. This study was done to test the validity of MPM II for critically ill neurological patients and to determine applicability of MPM II in predicting mortality of neurological ICU patients.
The clinical utility and limitations of serum carbohydrate antigen (CA19-9) as a diagnostic tool for pancreatic cancer and cholangiocarcinoma.	CA19-9 is a tumor marker for pancreatic cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, and other malignancies. However, its sensitivity and specificity is suboptimal in clinical practice, which we hypothesized limits its clinical utility.
A study of diagnostic value of golgi protein GP73 and its genetic assay in primary hepatic carcinoma.	This study aimed to investigate the diagnostic values of GP73 protein in patients' serum with primary hepatic carcinoma (PHC). Also GP73 mRNA expression level in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and liver tissue between health controls and PHC patients was interrogated. Finally the role of combined detection of serum GP73 and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) in high-risk population screening was evaluate, in an attempt to justify the new, sensitive, specific and rapid measure for the diagnosis and detection of PHC. Serum proteins of GP73 and AFP were examined in 73 patients with PHC, 13 patients with hepatic cirrhosis, 32 patients with hepatitis and 62 healthy subjects using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The relative expression levels of GP73 mRNA in PBMCs and liver tissues were examined by using SYBR Green quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay, calculated with the comparison of Cq value. In contrast to patients with cirrhosis and hepatitis, or healthy subjects, PHC patients had their serum GP73 and AFP significantly elevated (P < 0.05) while their PBMCs GP73 mRNA was not significantly different from those with cirrhosis and hepatitis, or healthy subjects (P > 0.05). The expression level of GP73 mRNA was significantly higher in PHC liver tissue than in normal liver tissue. The sensitivity for serum GP73 and AFP in PHC was 68.5% and 28.8%, respectively while that for the combined detection was up to 74%, justifying that the combined detection could prevent the false negative diagnosis by AFP alone and significantly improve the detection rate. As a new diagnostic biomarker of PHC, GP73 protein in serum was highly sensitive and specific. GP73 mRNA in PHC liver tissue specimens instead of whole blood could be used for the diagnosis of PHC as a tumor biomarker, whose detection was highly invasive, risky and afflicting otherwise. The combined detection of GP73 and AFP in serum effectively improved the diagnosis of PHC, in addition to the screening in high-risk population.
Defining a significant stenosis in an autologous radio-cephalic arteriovenous fistula for hemodialysis.	The current definition of a significant stenosis in an autologous arteriovenous fistula (aAVF), the percentage narrowing compared with the adjacent "normal" vessel, is inaccurate. We believe a significant stenosis in the aAVF is an absolute minimal luminal diameter determined by the requirements of the hemodialysis pump. To determine what absolute diameter constitutes a hemodynamically significant stenosis in a radio-cephalic autologous arteriovenous fistula (RC aAVF), the minimal luminal diameter of dysfunctional RC aAVF was compared to that of functional RC aAVF using grayscale and color ultrasound. There were 93 fistulas in study group and 77 in control group. The mean minimum luminal diameter in study group was significantly lower than in control group (2.19 vs. 4.71 mm, p 0.001). With a cutoff value of 2.7 mm, there was 90% sensitivity and 80% specificity in distinguishing functional fistula from dysfunctional fistula. The area under the receiver-operator curve was 90% (CI 84-94%), indicating that a 2.7 mm diameter is accurate in discriminating functional from dysfunctional fistulas. An absolute minimal luminal diameter of 2.7 mm, as determined with grayscale and color ultrasound, is a useful cutoff for defining significant stenosis in a RC aAVF.
Fixations on low-resolution images.	When an observer looks at an image, his eyes fixate on a few select points. Fixations from different observers are often consistent-observers tend to look at the same locations. We investigate how image resolution affects fixation locations and consistency across humans through an eye-tracking experiment. We showed 168 natural images and 25 pink noise images at different resolutions to 64 observers. Each image was shown at eight resolutions (height between 4 and 512 pixels) and upsampled to 860  1024 pixels for display. The total amount of visual information available ranged from 1/8 to 16 cycles per degree, respectively. We measure how well one observer's fixations predict another observer's fixations on the same image at different resolutions using the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves as a metric. We found that: (1) Fixations from lower resolution images can predict fixations on higher resolution images. (2) Human fixations are biased toward the center for all resolutions and this bias is stronger at lower resolutions. (3) Human fixations become more consistent as resolution increases until around 16-64 pixels (1/2 to 2 cycles per degree) after which consistency remains relatively constant despite the spread of fixations away from the center. (4) Fixation consistency depends on image complexity.
Cervical Spine Injury Recovery Prediction Scale: a means of predicting neurological recovery in patients with acute subaxial cervical spine injury.	To develop a comprehensive Cervical Spine Injury Recovery Prediction Scale (CSIRPS) to predict outcomes for patients with acute subaxial cervical spine injury (CSI).
Validity of two occlusal indices for determining orthodontic treatment needs of patients treated in a public university in Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais State, Brazil.	The aim of the present study was to validate the dental aesthetic index (DAI) and index of complexity, outcome and need (ICON) based on the opinions of a panel of Brazilian orthodontists. A comparison of these two orthodontic treatment need indices was carried out based on the consensus of a panel of 20 experienced orthodontists. A set of 108 study casts representing the full spectrum of malocclusions was selected. A calibrated examiner scored the casts for both indices. The orthodontists individually rated the casts regarding the degree of orthodontic treatment need. The panel's mean rating of the need for treatment was used as the gold standard for evaluating the validity of the indices. The accuracy of the indices, as reflected in the area under receiver-operating characteristic curves, was high: DAI = 81.83% (95%CI: 71.21-92.44); ICON = 88.75% (95%CI: 78.57-98.92). Although the accuracy of the ICON was higher than that of the DAI, both indices are recommended for determining orthodontic treatment need in Brazil.
A model and scoring system to predict outcome of intrauterine pregnancies of uncertain viability.	To define the incidence and outcome of intrauterine pregnancy of uncertain viability (PUV) and to develop and assess the performance of a model and a scoring system to predict ongoing viability.
Scoring protein relationships in functional interaction networks predicted from sequence data.	The abundance of diverse biological data from various sources constitutes a rich source of knowledge, which has the power to advance our understanding of organisms. This requires computational methods in order to integrate and exploit these data effectively and elucidate local and genome wide functional connections between protein pairs, thus enabling functional inferences for uncharacterized proteins. These biological data are primarily in the form of sequences, which determine functions, although functional properties of a protein can often be predicted from just the domains it contains. Thus, protein sequences and domains can be used to predict protein pair-wise functional relationships, and thus contribute to the function prediction process of uncharacterized proteins in order to ensure that knowledge is gained from sequencing efforts. In this work, we introduce information-theoretic based approaches to score protein-protein functional interaction pairs predicted from protein sequence similarity and conserved protein signature matches. The proposed schemes are effective for data-driven scoring of connections between protein pairs. We applied these schemes to the Mycobacterium tuberculosis proteome to produce a homology-based functional network of the organism with a high confidence and coverage. We use the network for predicting functions of uncharacterised proteins.
Multiplexed immunoassay panel identifies novel CSF biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis and prognosis.	Clinicopathological studies suggest that Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology begins 10-15 years before the resulting cognitive impairment draws medical attention. Biomarkers that can detect AD pathology in its early stages and predict dementia onset would, therefore, be invaluable for patient care and efficient clinical trial design. We utilized a targeted proteomics approach to discover novel cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers that can augment the diagnostic and prognostic accuracy of current leading CSF biomarkers (A42, tau, p-tau181).
Neural representations of personally familiar and unfamiliar faces in the anterior inferior temporal cortex of monkeys.	To investigate the neural representations of faces in primates, particularly in relation to their personal familiarity or unfamiliarity, neuronal activities were chronically recorded from the ventral portion of the anterior inferior temporal cortex (AITv) of macaque monkeys during the performance of a facial identification task using either personally familiar or unfamiliar faces as stimuli. By calculating the correlation coefficients between neuronal responses to the faces for all possible pairs of faces given in the task and then using the coefficients as neuronal population-based similarity measures between the faces in pairs, we analyzed the similarity/dissimilarity relationship between the faces, which were potentially represented by the activities of a population of the face-responsive neurons recorded in the area AITv. The results showed that, for personally familiar faces, different identities were represented by different patterns of activities of the population of AITv neurons irrespective of the view (e.g., front, 90 left, etc.), while different views were not represented independently of their facial identities, which was consistent with our previous report. In the case of personally unfamiliar faces, the faces possessing different identities but presented in the same frontal view were represented as similar, which contrasts with the results for personally familiar faces. These results, taken together, outline the neuronal representations of personally familiar and unfamiliar faces in the AITv neuronal population.
Prognostic scores in cirrhotic patients admitted to a gastroenterology intensive care unit.	prognostic scores have been validated in cirrhotic patients admitted to general Intensive Care Units. No assessment of these scores was performed in cirrhotics admitted to specialized Gastroenterology Intensive Care Units (GICUs).
Indian Diabetes Risk Score helps to distinguish type 2 from non-type 2 diabetes mellitus (GDRC-3).	The aim of this study was to investigate whether the Indian Diabetes Risk Score (IDRS) could assist in classifying type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and non-T2DM among patients attending clinics in India.
Risk factors for residual tumor after resection of hepatocellular carcinoma.	To identify the clinicopathological risk factors correlated with residual tumor in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients after resection.
Evaluation of N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide as a diagnostic marker of various stages of cardiomyopathy in Doberman Pinschers.	To evaluate the diagnostic value of plasma N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) concentrations in Doberman Pinschers in various stages of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM).
Quantitative analysis of elastography images in the detection of breast cancer.	The aim of this study was to develop a quantitative method for breast cancer diagnosis based on elastosonography images in order to reduce whenever possible unnecessary biopsies. The proposed method was validated by correlating the results of quantitative analysis with the diagnosis assessed by histopathologic exam.
The diagnostic value of basophil activation test in patients with an immediate hypersensitivity reaction to radiocontrast media.	No available test diagnoses allergic reactions to radiocontrast media (RCM). The basophil activation test (BAT) has been introduced for the diagnosis of both immunoglobulin (Ig) E and non-IgE-dependent mast cell degranulation, but its value to diagnose immediate RCM reactions is still unknown.
Identification of nasal eosinophils using two-photon excited fluorescence.	Eosinophils trigger symptoms in allergic rhinitis. New diagnostic methods for identifying nasal eosinophils based on autofluorescence of flavin adenine dinucleotide in eosinophil granules could offer rapid monitoring without fixation or staining. Two-photon excitation is a powerful method for detecting this intrinsic fluorescence.
Mood-linked responses in medial prefrontal cortex predict relapse in patients with recurrent unipolar depression.	Altered cognitive processing following mood challenge is associated with elevated relapse risk in remitted unipolar depressed patients, but little is known about the neural basis of this reactivity and its link to depressive relapse and prophylaxis.
Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve for medical researchers.	Sensitivity and specificity are two components that measure the inherent validity of a diagnostic test for dichotomous outcomes against a gold standard. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve is the plot that depicts the trade-off between the sensitivity and (1-specificity) across a series of cut-off points when the diagnostic test is continuous or on ordinal scale (minimum 5 categories). This is an effective method for assessing the performance of a diagnostic test. The aim of this article is to provide basic conceptual framework and interpretation of ROC analysis to help medical researchers to use it effectively. ROC curve and its important components like area under the curve, sensitivity at specified specificity and vice versa, and partial area under the curve are discussed. Various other issues such as choice between parametric and non-parametric methods, biases that affect the performance of a diagnostic test, sample size for estimating the sensitivity, specificity, and area under ROC curve, and details of commonly used softwares in ROC analysis are also presented.
Psychophysical and electrophysiological testing in ocular hypertension.	The purpose of this study was to compare psychophysical and electrophysiological testings in early optic nerve dysfunction in a group of clinically asymptomatic subjects with suspect ocular hypertension (OHT).
External validation and comparison of three scores to predict renal replacement therapy after cardiac surgery: a multicenter cohort.	Cardiac surgery-associated acute kidney injury requiring renal replacement therapy (RRT) is independently associated with mortality. Several risk scores have been developed to predict the need for RRT after cardiac surgery. We have compared and verified the external validity of the three main available scores for RRT prediction after cardiac surgery: the Thakar score, the Mehta tool, and the Simplified Renal Index.
A transfer of technology from engineering: use of ROC curves from signal detection theory to investigate information processing in the brain during sensory difference testing.	This article reviews a beneficial effect of technology transfer from Electrical Engineering to Food Sensory Science. Specifically, it reviews the recent adoption in Food Sensory Science of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, a tool that is incorporated in the theory of signal detection. Its use allows the information processing that takes place in the brain during sensory difference testing to be studied and understood. The review deals with how Signal Detection Theory, also called Thurstonian modeling, led to the adoption of a more sophisticated way of analyzing the data from sensory difference tests, by introducing the signal-to-noise ratio, d', as a fundamental measure of perceived small sensory differences. Generally, the method of computation of d' is a simple matter for some of the better known difference tests like the triangle, duo-trio and 2-AFC. However, there are occasions when these tests are not appropriate and other tests like the same-different and the A Not-A test are more suitable. Yet, for these, it is necessary to understand how the brain processes information during the test before d' can be computed. It is for this task that the ROC curve has a particular use.
Iterative reconstruction reduces abdominal CT dose.	In medical imaging, lowering radiation dose from computed tomography scanning, without reducing diagnostic performance is a desired achievement. Iterative image reconstruction may be one tool to achieve dose reduction. This study reports the diagnostic performance using a blending of 50% statistical iterative reconstruction (ASIR) and filtered back projection reconstruction (FBP) compared to standard FBP image reconstruction at different dose levels for liver phantom examinations.
Risk stratification analysis of operative mortality in isolated coronary artery bypass graft patients in Pakistan: comparison between additive and logistic EuroSCORE models.	We compared the performances of the additive and logistic EuroSCORE in predicting mortality in patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass grafting at a single institution in Pakistan. Both models were applied to 2004 patients, operated upon at the Aga Khan University Hospital from January 2006 to July 2010. The actual mortality (3.8%) was significantly different from the additive (4.35%) and the logistic (6.41%) estimates. On the basis of degree of risk, actual mortality was 0.6% in the low-risk (additive EuroSCORE 0-4), 4.2% in the medium-risk (EuroSCORE 5-9) and 19.1% in the high-risk (EuroSCORE 10-19) group. With the low risks, both systems slightly overestimated mortality, with the logistic EuroSCORE being more accurate. At a EuroSCORE of between 10 and 19, the additive EuroSCORE underestimated and logistic EuroSCORE overestimated mortality. Both models satisfactorily discriminated outcomes (receiver operating characteristics areas of 0.866 and 0.859 for the additive and the logistic model, respectively). The Hosmer-Lemeshow test showed that calibration was good for the additive model (P=0.424) but turned out to be inadequate for the logistic model (P<0.001). We conclude that the additive EuroSCORE is a more accurate model for risk assessment compared to the logistics model in the Pakistani population.
Exploiting genome structure in association analysis.	A genome-wide association study involves examining a large number of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to identify SNPs that are significantly associated with the given phenotype, while trying to reduce the false positive rate. Although haplotype-based association methods have been proposed to accommodate correlation information across nearby SNPs that are in linkage disequilibrium, none of these methods directly incorporated the structural information such as recombination events along chromosome. In this paper, we propose a new approach called stochastic block lasso for association mapping that exploits prior knowledge on linkage disequilibrium structure in the genome such as recombination rates and distances between adjacent SNPs in order to increase the power of detecting true associations while reducing false positives. Following a typical linear regression framework with the genotypes as inputs and the phenotype as output, our proposed method employs a sparsity-enforcing Laplacian prior for the regression coefficients, augmented by a first-order Markov process along the sequence of SNPs that incorporates the prior information on the linkage disequilibrium structure. The Markov-chain prior models the structural dependencies between a pair of adjacent SNPs, and allows us to look for association SNPs in a coupled manner, combining strength from multiple nearby SNPs. Our results on HapMap-simulated datasets and mouse datasets show that there is a significant advantage in incorporating the prior knowledge on linkage disequilibrium structure for marker identification under whole-genome association.
FDG PET/CT early dynamic blood flow and late standardized uptake value determination in hepatocellular carcinoma.	To prospectively determine whether fluorine 18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) early dynamic blood flow estimates could be used to discriminate hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) from background liver and to characterize HCC in patients with and those without angioinvasion; and to evaluate the association between blood flow measures at FDG PET/CT with metabolism in HCCs.
Intra-abdominal pressure and abdominal perfusion pressure: which is a better marker of severity in patients with severe acute pancreatitis.	Intra-abdominal hypertension is common in patients with severe acute pancreatitis. The aim of this study was to assess the clinical relevance of intra-abdominal pressure and abdominal perfusion pressure in the first 72 h after admission during severe acute pancreatitis.
Associations among albuminuria, C-reactive protein concentrations, survival predictor index scores, and survival in 78 critically ill dogs.	Microalbuminuria and C-reactive protein (CRP) are predictors of morbidity and survival in critically ill human patients.
In-vivo real-time tracking of surgical instruments in endoscopic video.	Tracking instruments during surgery is becoming a useful acquisition tool for different applications. This article presents a tracking system to detect and track instruments in endoscopic video using biocompatible colour markers. The system tracks single or multiple instruments in the video. The originality of this method is that it combines continuously adaptive shift algorithm with Kalman-filter for real-time tracking of single and multiple surgical instruments during surgery. Preliminary results show that the proposed method has a real-time performance. Moreover it is robust to partial occlusion and smoke. The system shows high sensitivity and specificity results for blue, green and yellow colours. The achieved sensitivity and specificity results are sufficient to apply the system for real-time registration of surgical workflow in-vivo during surgery.
Distinguishing hemangiomas from malignant solid hepatic lesions: a comparison of heavily T2-weighted images obtained before and after administration of gadoxetic acid.	To compare the use of heavily T2-weighted images obtained before and after administration of gadoxetic acid in differentiating hemangiomas from malignant solid hepatic lesions.
Screening for hyperopia in infants using the PowerRefractor.	To determine the proportion of infants in a pediatric medical practice who have high levels of hyperopia in addition to evaluating the ability of the PowerRefractor (PR) [with and without accessory +4.50 diopter (D) spectacles] compared with cycloplegic retinoscopy to detect highly hyperopic refractive errors.
A comprehensive comparison of central corneal thickness measurement.	To assess the repeatability and reproducibility of central corneal thickness (CCT) measurements by high-resolution rotating Scheimpflug imaging (Pentacam, Oculus) and Fourier-domain optical coherence tomography (RTvue-100, Optovue) after laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) and to compare the agreement with ultrasound pachymetry (USP).
Prediction model of Parkinson's disease based on antiparkinsonian drug claims.	Drug claims databases are increasingly available and provide opportunities to investigate epidemiologic questions. The authors used computerized drug claims databases from a social security system in 5 French districts to predict the probability that a person had Parkinson's disease (PD) based on patterns of antiparkinsonian drug (APD) use. Clinical information for a population-based sample of persons using APDs in 2007 was collected. The authors built a prediction model using demographic variables and APDs as predictors and investigated the additional predictive benefit of including information on dose and regularity of use. Among 1,114 APD users, 320 (29%) had PD and 794 (71%) had another diagnosis as determined by study neurologists. A logistic model including information on cumulative APD dose and regularity of use showed good performance (c statistic = 0.953, sensitivity = 92.5%, specificity = 86.4%). Predicted PD prevalence (among persons aged 18 years) was 6.66/1,000; correcting this estimate using sensitivity/specificity led to a similar figure (6.04/1,000). These data demonstrate that drug claims databases can be used to estimate the probability that a person is being treated for PD and that information on APD dose and regularity of use improves models' performances. Similar approaches could be developed for other conditions.
Prognostic impact of preoperative the branched-chain amino acid to the tyrosine ratio in hepatocellular carcinoma patients after initial hepatectomy.	The branched-chain amino acid/tyrosine ratio (BTR) reflects the amino acid balance and the severity of liver disease. The aim of the present study was to determine the relationship between BTR and liver function in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Furthermore, we evaluated the clinical usefulness of BTR as a prognostic indicator of disease-free and overall patient survival after initial hepatectomy.
Are targeted preoperative risk prediction tools more powerful? A test of models for emergency colon surgery in the very elderly.	Whether preoperative risk prediction improves with the use of more patient- and procedure-targeted models is unclear. We created a customized preoperative mortality risk prediction score for patients 80 years or older needing an emergency colectomy and compare it with existing, more generic risk assessment methods.
Stimulus parameters for multifocal pupillographic objective perimetry.	We compared the diagnostic power of 10 stimulus variants that assessed the visual fields of both eyes by recording pupillary responses to multifocal stimuli. The 10 variants comprised 6 initial tests, and 4 subsequent variants whose design was informed by the initial results.
Acute appendicitis in young adults: low- versus standard-radiation-dose contrast-enhanced abdominal CT for diagnosis.	To compare low and standard radiation doses in intravenous contrast material-enhanced abdominal computed tomography (CT) for the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in young adults.
Apparent diffusion coefficient as an MR imaging biomarker of low-risk ductal carcinoma in situ: a pilot study.	To evaluate the potential of apparent diffusion coefficients (ADCs) obtained at quantitative diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the breast as a biomarker of low-grade ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS).
Risk factors for chronic kidney diseases may include periodontal diseases, as estimated by the correlations of plasma pentraxin-3 levels: a case-control study.	Pentraxins are classical mediators of inflammation and markers of acute-phase reactions. Pentraxin-3 (PTX3) is believed to be a true independent indicator of disease activity. It has been associated with clinical outcomes in incident chronic kidney disease (CKD) and periodontal diseases. Periodontitis is lately being considered as a risk factor for CKD. However, no data are available on elevated PTX3 in patients with CKD associated with periodontitis.
Comparison of high efficiency CZT SPECT MPI to coronary angiography.	The recently introduced cadmium zinc telluride (CZT) SPECT cameras have the potential to reduce radiation exposure to patients and shorten imaging time. So far, there has been only one small study comparing the results of high efficiency CZT SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) to invasive coronary angiography.
Clinical usefulness of diffusion-weighted MR imaging for detection of pancreatic cancer: comparison with enhanced multidetector-row CT.	The aim of this study was to compare diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) and multidetector-row computed tomography (MDCT) for detection of primary pancreatic cancer by reviewing images of patients at high risk for pancreatic cancer with main pancreatic duct (MPD) dilatation shown by magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP).
Is ischaemia-modified albumin a test for venous thromboembolism?	Patients with symptoms of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) commonly present to the emergency department (ED). The aim of this study was to assess the role of ischaemia-modified albumin (IMA) testing in the diagnosis of venous thromboembolism (VTE).
Circulating surfactant protein-D and the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.	Surfactant protein-D (SP-D) is a lung-specific protein that is detectable in human plasma. We determined the relationship of circulating SP-D to cardiovascular disease (CVD) and total mortality in subjects with and without CVD.
Inappropriate hospital admission: interaction between patient age and co-morbidity.	The aim of the study is to determine the prevalence of inappropriate admission, and to identify the factors that influence appropriateness of hospital admission. Data were prospectively collected from all 345 consecutive patients admitted during the period of 1 month for acute hospital care at a 110-bed division of internal medicine using socio-demographic and medical information. Statistical analyses included 2 tests, t tests, and logistic regression analyses. According to the European version of the Appropriateness Evaluation Protocol of hospital admission, 28.1% of medical admissions for acute care in the Central Hospital of Bolzano, Italy, have been classified as inappropriate. Factors that reduced appropriateness included female gender, age and chronic illness that are significantly associated with appropriateness of medical admission, whereas time of day or day of week of the emergency department (ED) visit does not influence appropriateness. In multiple logistic regression analyses, age and co-morbidity are not independently related to appropriateness, however, when tested for interaction, inappropriateness is significantly more frequent at a young age in the absence of co-morbidities, and, numerically most relevant, in elderly patients presenting with co-morbidities. In this evaluation of a single centre North Italian hospital admission, co-morbidity turns out to be an important age-dependent determinant of appropriateness. Although in the young age group, co-morbidity increases the likelihood of being appropriately admitted, the presence of chronic illness in the elderly increases the risk of inappropriate hospital use.
Protein remote homology detection based on auto-cross covariance transformation.	Protein remote homology detection is a critical step toward annotating its structure and function. Supervised learning algorithms such as support vector machine are currently the most accurate methods. The position-specific score matrices (PSSMs) contain wealthy information about the evolutionary relationship of proteins. However, the PSSMs often have different lengths, which are difficult to be used by machine-learning methods. In this study, a simple, fast and powerful method is presented for protein remote homology detection, which combines support vector machine with auto-cross covariance transformation. The PSSMs are converted into a series of fixed-length vectors by auto-cross covariance transformation and these vectors are then input to a support vector machine classifier for remote homology detection. The sequence-order effects can be effectively captured by this scheme. Experiments are performed on well-established datasets, and the remote homology is simulated at the superfamily and the fold level, respectively. The results show that the proposed method, referred to as ACCRe, is comparable or even better than the state-of-the-art methods in terms of detection performance, and its time complexity is superior to those of other profile-based SVM methods. The auto-cross covariance transformation provides a novel way for the usage of evolutionary information, which can be widely used for protein-level studies.
Search asymmetries: parallel processing of uncertain sensory information.	What is the mechanism underlying search phenomena such as search asymmetry? Two-stage models such as Feature Integration Theory and Guided Search propose parallel pre-attentive processing followed by serial post-attentive processing. They claim search asymmetry effects are indicative of finding pairs of features, one processed in parallel, the other in serial. An alternative proposal is that a 1-stage parallel process is responsible, and search asymmetries occur when one stimulus has greater internal uncertainty associated with it than another. While the latter account is simpler, only a few studies have set out to empirically test its quantitative predictions, and many researchers still subscribe to the 2-stage account. This paper examines three separate parallel models (Bayesian optimal observer, max rule, and a heuristic decision rule). All three parallel models can account for search asymmetry effects and I conclude that either people can optimally utilise the uncertain sensory data available to them, or are able to select heuristic decision rules which approximate optimal performance.
Automatic detection of diabetic retinopathy and age-related macular degeneration in digital fundus images.	To describe and evaluate the performance of an algorithm that automatically classifies images with pathologic features commonly found in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
Evaluating the incremental value of new biomarkers with integrated discrimination improvement.	The integrated discrimination improvement (IDI) index is a popular tool for evaluating the capacity of a marker to predict a binary outcome of interest. Recent reports have proposed that the IDI is more sensitive than other metrics for identifying useful predictive markers. In this article, the authors use simulated data sets and theoretical analysis to investigate the statistical properties of the IDI. The authors consider the common situation in which a risk model is fitted to a data set with and without the new, candidate predictor(s). Results demonstrate that the published method of estimating the standard error of an IDI estimate tends to underestimate the error. The z test proposed in the literature for IDI-based testing of a new biomarker is not valid, because the null distribution of the test statistic is not standard normal, even in large samples. If a test for the incremental value of a marker is desired, the authors recommend the test based on the model. For investigators who find the IDI to be a useful measure, bootstrap methods may offer a reasonable option for inference when evaluating new predictors, as long as the added predictive capacity is large.
Heat shock factor Y chromosome (HSFY) mRNA level predicts the presence of retrievable testicular sperm in men with nonobstructive azoospermia.	To evaluate heat shock factor Y chromosome (HSFY) mRNA as a biomarker for the presence of retrievable testicular sperm.
Predicting hospital mortality in critically ill cancer patients according to acute kidney injury severity.	Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a frequent complication in hospitalized patients, especially in those in intensive care units (ICU). The RIFLE classification might be a valid prognostic factor for critically ill cancer patients. The present study aims to evaluate the discriminatory capacity of RIFLE versus other general prognostic scores in predicting hospital mortality in critically ill cancer patients.
Prediction of early stroke risk in transient symptoms with infarction: relevance to the new tissue-based definition.	The risk of stroke shortly after transient ischemic attack with infarction on diffusion-weighted images, also known as transient symptoms with infarction (TSI), is substantially higher than is the risk after imaging-normal transient ischemic attack. We sought to assess the utility of a Web-based recurrence risk estimator (RRE; http://www.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/RRE/) originally developed for use in patients with ischemic stroke for predicting 7-day risk of stroke in patients with TSI.
Use of the patient acceptable symptom state and the minimal clinically important difference to evaluate the outcomes of cataract extraction.	To determine the minimal clinically important difference and the patient acceptable symptom state for visual acuity and visual function, 2 key visual outcomes for patients undergoing cataract extraction, as an aid for evaluating the outcome of cataract extraction.
Who is the high-risk recipient? Predicting mortality after heart transplant using pretransplant donor and recipient risk factors.	In this study we sought the following: (1) To objectively assess the risk related to various pretransplant recipient and donor characteristics; (2) to devise a preoperative risk stratification score (RSS) based on pretransplant recipient and donor characteristics predicting graft loss at 1 year; and (3) to define different risk strata based on RSS.
Association of cerebrospinal fluid analysis findings with clinical signs and outcome in acute nonambulatory thoracolumbar disc disease in dogs.	Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pleocytosis recently was associated with the severity of neurologic signs in dogs with intervertebral disc disease (IVDD).
The diagnostic accuracy of the percentage of hypochromic red blood cells (%HYPOm) and cellular hemoglobin in reticulocytes (CHr) in differentiating iron deficiency anemia and anemia of chronic diseases.	The percentages of hypochromic red blood cells (%HYPOm) and cellular hemoglobin in reticulocytes (CHr) are suggested to be useful screening markers of iron deficiency. The aim of this study was to investigate the diagnostic accuracy of %HYPOm and CHr in differentiating iron deficiency anemia (IDA) and anemia of chronic disease (ACD).
Prospective multi-institutional study evaluating the performance of prostate cancer risk calculators.	Prostate cancer risk calculators incorporate many factors to evaluate an individual's risk for prostate cancer. We validated two common North American-based, prostate cancer risk calculators.
Detection of pancreatic carcinoma and liver metastases with gadoxetic acid-enhanced MR imaging: comparison with contrast-enhanced multi-detector row CT.	To intraindividually compare gadoxetic acid-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with contrast material-enhanced multi-detector row computed tomography (CT) in detection of pancreatic carcinoma and liver metastases.
Decision curve analysis revisited: overall net benefit, relationships to ROC curve analysis, and application to case-control studies.	Decision curve analysis has been introduced as a method to evaluate prediction models in terms of their clinical consequences if used for a binary classification of subjects into a group who should and into a group who should not be treated. The key concept for this type of evaluation is the "net benefit", a concept borrowed from utility theory.
Utility of the REM sleep behavior disorder screening questionnaire (RBDSQ) in Parkinson's disease patients.	We evaluated the usefulness of the REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) screening questionnaire (RBDSQ) among patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).
High-sensitivity cardiac troponin I measurement for risk stratification in a stable high-risk population.	Past investigations regarding the utility of high-sensitivity cardiac troponin I (cTnI) assays have been focused primarily on the acute coronary syndrome setting. We assessed whether such assays can predict future ischemic cardiovascular events in a stable high-risk population.
A prognostic model to predict clinical outcomes with first-line gemcitabine-based chemotherapy in advanced pancreatic cancer.	Our aim was to devise a prognostic model for advanced pancreatic cancer based on clinical parameters.
Comparison of gadoxetic acid-enhanced dynamic imaging and diffusion-weighted imaging for the preoperative evaluation of colorectal liver metastases.	To retrospectively compare the diagnostic accuracy for the detection of colorectal liver metastases between gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI (EOB-MRI) and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) on 3.0 Tesla (T) system, and then to determine whether a combination of the two techniques may improve the diagnostic performance.
Detection of masses in mammogram images using CNN, geostatistic functions and SVM.	Breast cancer occurs with high frequency among the world's population and its effects impact the patients' perception of their own sexuality and their very personal image. This work presents a computational methodology that helps specialists detect breast masses in mammogram images. The first stage of the methodology aims to improve the mammogram image. This stage consists in removing objects outside the breast, reducing noise and highlighting the internal structures of the breast. Next, cellular neural networks are used to segment the regions that might contain masses. These regions have their shapes analyzed through shape descriptors (eccentricity, circularity, density, circular disproportion and circular density) and their textures analyzed through geostatistic functions (Ripley's K function and Moran's and Geary's indexes). Support vector machines are used to classify the candidate regions as masses or non-masses, with sensitivity of 80%, rates of 0.84 false positives per image and 0.2 false negatives per image, and an area under the ROC curve of 0.87.
Evaluation of early imaging response after chemoembolization of hepatocellular carcinoma by phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy-initial experience.	To evaluate the value of phosphorus-31 ((31)P) magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy in early monitoring and predicting the response of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after chemoembolization.
Comparison of risk scores to estimate perioperative mortality in aortic valve replacement surgery.	Transaortic valve implantation has recently been introduced as an alternative to aortic valve replacement (AVR) for high-risk patients with aortic stenosis. However, accurate assessment of surgical risk is critical for appropriate patient selection. We compared the accuracy of The Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS) risk score, the European System for Cardiac Risk Evaluation (EuroSCORE), and the Veterans Administration (VA) risk score in predicting perioperative mortality after AVR.
External validation of the recalibrated thoracic revised cardiac risk index for predicting the risk of major cardiac complications after lung resection.	The recalibrated thoracic revised cardiac risk index (ThRCRI) has been recently proposed as a specific tool for cardiac risk stratification before lung resection. However, the ThRCRI has never been externally validated in a population other than the one from which it was derived. The objective of this study was to validate the ThRCRI in an external population of candidates having undergone major lung resections to assess its reliability for cardiac risk stratification across different samples.
Remote protein homology detection and fold recognition using two-layer support vector machine classifiers.	Remote protein homology detection and fold recognition refer to detection of structural homology in proteins where there are small or no similarities in the sequence. To detect protein structural classes from protein primary sequence information, homology-based methods have been developed, which can be divided to three types: discriminative classifiers, generative models for protein families and pairwise sequence comparisons. Support Vector Machines (SVM) and Neural Networks (NN) are two popular discriminative methods. Recent studies have shown that SVM has fast speed during training, more accurate and efficient compared to NN. We present a comprehensive method based on two-layer classifiers. The 1st layer is used to detect up to superfamily and family in SCOP hierarchy using optimized binary SVM classification rules. It used the kernel function known as the Bio-kernel, which incorporates the biological information in the classification process. The 2nd layer uses discriminative SVM algorithm with string kernel that will detect up to protein fold level in SCOP hierarchy. The results obtained were evaluated using mean ROC and mean MRFP and the significance of the result produced with pairwise t-test was tested. Experimental results show that our approaches significantly improve the performance of remote protein homology detection and fold recognition for all three different version SCOP datasets (1.53, 1.67 and 1.73). We achieved 4.19% improvements in term of mean ROC in SCOP 1.53, 4.75% in SCOP 1.67 and 4.03% in SCOP 1.73 datasets when compared to the result produced by well-known methods. The combination of first layer and second layer of BioSVM-2L performs well in remote homology detection and fold recognition even in three different versions of datasets.
Assessing the diagnostic accuracy of pulse pressure variations for the prediction of fluid responsiveness: a "gray zone" approach.	Respiratory arterial pulse pressure variations (PPV) are the best predictors of fluid responsiveness in mechanically ventilated patients during general anesthesia. However, previous studies were performed in a small number of patients and determined a single cutoff point to make clinical discrimination. The authors sought to test the predictive value of PPV in a large, multicenter study and to express it using a gray zone approach.
Patient outcomes from symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage after stroke thrombolysis.	To assess the impact of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (sICH) on outcome of thrombolysis-treated ischemic stroke patients, as additional to recognized prognosticators.
Serum beta human chorionic gonadotropin levels can inform outcome counseling after in vitro fertilization.	The predictive value of serum beta hCG level for fetal cardiac motion and pregnancy outcome after IVF was evaluated. The serum hCG level 12 days after ET is a useful predictor of subsequent presence of fetal cardiac activity and live birth and may assist clinicians in counseling patients regarding their IVF outcome.
Thiopurine methyl-transferase activity and azathioprine metabolite concentrations do not predict clinical outcome in thiopurine-treated inflammatory bowel disease patients.	Low thiopurine-methyl-transferase (TPMT) activity and high 6-thioguanine-nucleotide (6TGN) concentrations have been linked to therapeutic success in inflammatory bowel disease patients treated with thiopurines; however, this has not been implemented in clinical practice.
Classification of benign and malignant masses based on Zernike moments.	In mammography diagnosis systems, high False Negative Rate (FNR) has always been a significant problem since a false negative answer may lead to a patient's death. This paper is directed towards the development of a novel Computer-aided Diagnosis (CADx) system for the diagnosis of breast masses. It aims at intensifying the performance of CADx algorithms as well as reducing the FNR by utilizing Zernike moments as descriptors of shape and margin characteristics. The input Regions of Interest (ROIs) are segmented manually and further subjected to a number of preprocessing stages. The outcomes of preprocessing stage are two processed images containing co-scaled translated masses. Besides, one of these images represents the shape characteristics of the mass, while the other describes the margin characteristics. Two groups of Zernike moments have been extracted from the preprocessed images and applied to the feature selection stage. Each group includes 32 moments with different orders and iterations. Considering the performance of the overall CADx system, the most effective moments have been chosen and applied to a Multi-layer Perceptron (MLP) classifier, employing both generic Back Propagation (BP) and Opposition-based Learning (OBL) algorithms. The Receiver Operational Characteristics (ROC) curve and the performance of resulting CADx systems are analyzed for each group of features. The designed systems yield Az=0.976, representing fair sensitivity, and Az=0.975 demonstrating fair specificity. The best achieved FNR and FPR are 0.0% and 5.5%, respectively.
Serum amylase and risk of the metabolic syndrome in Korean adults.	Serum amylase has recently been shown to be associated with ghrelin and adiponectin as well as obesity. We investigated the relationship between total amylase and metabolic syndrome in adults.
Development and validation of a risk calculator for prediction of cardiac risk after surgery.	Perioperative myocardial infarction or cardiac arrest is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. The Revised Cardiac Risk Index is currently the most commonly used cardiac risk stratification tool; however, it has several limitations, one of which is its relatively low discriminative ability. The objective of the present study was to develop and validate a predictive cardiac risk calculator.
Cystatin C in pre-eclampsia.	To evaluate diagnostic value of cystatin C serum levels as alternative marker of renal function in pre-eclamsia (PE) and compare it with the traditional markers of renal function, creatinine and uric acid. In order to investigate the possible influence of inflammation on biochemical markers of renal function, serum levels of high sensitive CRP were measured (hsCRP).
Quantitative prediction of acute ischemic tissue fate using support vector machine.	Accurate and quantitative prediction of ischemic tissue fate could improve decision-making in the clinical treatment of acute stroke. The goal of the present study is to explore the novel use of support vector machine (SVM) to predict infarct on a pixel-by-pixel basis using only acute cerebral blood flow (CBF), apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) MRI data. The efficacy of SVM prediction model was tested on three stroke groups: 30-min, 60-min, and permanent middle cerebral-artery occlusion (n=12 rats for each group). CBF, ADC and relaxation time constant (T2) were acquired during the acute phase up to 3h and again at 24h. Infarct was predicted using only acute (30-min) stroke data. Receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to quantify prediction accuracy. The areas under the receiver-operating curves were 862.7%, 891.4%, and 930.8% using ADC+CBF data for the 30-min, 60-min and permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) group, respectively. Adding neighboring pixel information and spatial infarction incidence improved performance to 882.8%, 940.8%, and 970.9%, respectively. SVM prediction compares favorably to a previously published artificial neural network (ANN) prediction algorithm operated on the same data sets. SVM prediction model has the potential to provide quantitative frameworks to aid clinical decision-making in the treatment of acute stroke.
From humans to rats and back again: bridging the divide between human and animal studies of recognition memory with receiver operating characteristics.	Receiver operating characteristics (ROCs) have been used extensively to study the processes underlying human recognition memory, and this method has recently been applied in studies of rats. However, the extent to which the results from human and animal studies converge is neither entirely clear, nor is it known how the different methods used to obtain ROCs in different species impact the results. A recent study used a response bias ROC manipulation with rats and demonstrated that speeding memory responses reduced the contribution of recollection, not familiarity. The current study confirms this finding in humans using a comparable response bias method. Moreover, a comparison of the response bias methods commonly used in animal studies and the confidence rating method typically employed in human studies produced similar ROC functions. The present results suggest that the analysis of recognition memory ROCs provides a fruitful method to bridge the human and animal memory literatures.
Closed-loop seizure control on epileptic rat models.	In this paper numerous alternative treatments in addition to pharmacological therapy are proposed for their use in epileptic patients. Epileptic animal models can play a crucial role in the performance evaluation of new therapeutic techniques. The objective of this research is to first develop various epileptic rat models; second, develop a portable wireless closed-loop seizure controller including on-line seizure detection and real-time electrical stimulation for seizure elimination; and third, apply the developed seizure controller to the animal models to perform on-line seizure elimination. The closed-loop seizure controller was applied to three Long-Evans rats with spontaneous spike-wave discharges (non-convulsive) and three Long-Evans rats with epileptiform activities induced by pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) injection (convulsive) for evaluation. The seizure detection accuracy is greater than 92% (up to 99%), and averaged seizure detection latency is less than 0.6 s for both spontaneous non-convulsive and PTZ-induced convulsive seizures. The average false stimulation rate is 3.1%. Near 30% of PTZ-induced convulsive seizures need more than two times of 0.5 s electrical stimulation for suppression and 90% of the non-convulsive seizures can be suppressed by only one 0.5 s electrical stimulation.
In vitro evaluation of ICDAS and radiographic examination of occlusal surfaces and their association with treatment decisions.	This in vitro study evaluated the performance of visual (International Caries Detection and Assessment System [ICDAS]) and radiographic (bitewing [BW]) examinations for occlusal caries detection and their associations with treatment decision (TD). Permanent teeth (n=104) with occlusal surfaces varying from sound to cavitated were selected. Sites were identified from 10 occlusal surface photographs. Standardized bitewing (BW) radiographs were taken. Four dentists with at least five years of experience scored all teeth twice (one-week interval) for ICDAS (06), BW (0=sound, 1=caries restricted to enamel, 2=caries in outer third dentin, 3=caries in inner third dentin), and TD (0=no treatment, 1=sealant, 2=microabrasion and sealant, 3=round bur sealant, 4a=resin, 4b=amalgam). Histological validation was performed by observation under a light microscope, with lesions classified on a five-point scale. Intraexaminer and interexaminer repeatability were assessed using two-way tables and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs). Comparisons between percentage correct, specificity, sensitivity, and area under the receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve were performed using bootstrap analyses. ICCs for intraexaminer and interexaminer repeatability indicated good repeatability for each examiner, ranging from 0.78 to 0.88, and among examiners, ranging from 0.74 to 0.81. Correlation between ICDAS and TD was 0.85 and between BW and TD was 0.78. Correlation between the methods and histological scores was moderate (0.63 for ICDAS and 0.61 for BW). The area under the ROC curve was significantly greater for ICDAS than for BW (p<0.0001). ICDAS had significantly lower specificity than BW did (p=0.0269, 79% vs 94%); however, sensitivity was much higher for ICDAS than for BW (p<0.0001, 83% vs 44%). Data from this investigation suggested that the visual examination (ICDAS) showed better performance than radiographic examination for occlusal caries detection. The ICDAS was strongly associated with TD. Although the correlation between the ICDAS and BW was lower, it is still valuable in the clinical decision-making process.
High on-treatment platelet reactivity after prasugrel loading dose and cardiovascular events after percutaneous coronary intervention in acute coronary syndromes.	The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between platelet reactivity (PR) after a loading dose (LD) of prasugrel and thrombotic events.
The predictive ability of pre-operative B-type natriuretic peptide in vascular patients for major adverse cardiac events: an individual patient data meta-analysis.	The aims of this study were to perform an individual patient data meta-analysis of studies using B-type natriuretic peptides (BNPs) to predict the primary composite endpoint of cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI) within 30 days of vascular surgery and to determine: 1) the cut points for a natriuretic peptide (NP) diagnostic, optimal, and screening test; and 2) if pre-operative NPs improve the predictive accuracy of the revised cardiac risk index (RCRI).
LigSeeSVM: ligand-based virtual screening using support vector machines and data fusion.	Ligand-based in silico drug screening is useful for lead discovery, in particular for those targets without structures. Here, we have developed LigSeeSVM, a ligand-based screening tool using data fusion and Support Vector Machines (SVMs). We used Atom Pair (AP) structure descriptors and Physicochemical (PC) descriptors of compounds to generate SVM-AP and SVM-PC models. Sequentially, the two models were combined using rank-based data fusion to create LigSeeSVM model. LigSeeSVM was evaluated on five data sets. Experimental results show that the performance of LigSeeSVM is better than other ligand-based virtual screening approaches. We believe that LigSeeSVM is useful for lead compounds.
A non-parametric method for building predictive genetic tests on high-dimensional data.	Predictive tests that capitalize on emerging genetic findings hold great promise for enhanced personalized healthcare. With the emergence of a large amount of data from genome-wide association studies (GWAS), interest has shifted towards high-dimensional risk prediction.
Evaluation of the diagnostic performance of fibrin monomer in disseminated intravascular coagulation.	Fibrin-related markers (FRM) such as fibrin monomer (FM) and D-dimer (DD) are considered useful biological markers for the diagnosis of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). However, no studies on the diagnostic performance of different FRMs have been published in Korea. The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic performance of FM for DIC in comparison with DD.
Leptin:adiponectin ratio and metabolic syndrome in the general Japanese population.	Circulating leptin:adiponectin ratio (L:A) is a potential surrogate marker for cardiometabolic diseases; however, the relationship of the L:A with the occurrence of metabolic syndrome (MetS) has not yet been fully explored in the general Japanese population.
Diagnostic performance of high-sensitivity troponin T, myeloperoxidase, and pregnancy-associated plasma protein A assays for triage of patients with acute myocardial infarction.	Early diagnosis is the cornerstone of management of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). We aimed to compare the diagnostic accuracy of high-sensitivity troponin T (hs-cTnT) with myeloperoxidase (MPO) and pregnancy-associated plasma protein A (PAPP-A) for early diagnosis of AMI in patients at the time of presentation to the emergency department (ED).
Wash-out of hepatocellular carcinoma: quantitative region of interest analysis on CT.	This study aims to determine if the quantitative method of region-of-interest (ROI) analysis of lesion attenuation on CT may be a useful adjunct to the conventional approach of diagnosis by visual assessment in assessing tracer wash-out in hepatocellular carcinomas.
Automated regional wall motion abnormality detection by combining rest and stress cardiac MRI: correlation with contrast-enhanced MRI.	To correlate an automated regional wall motion abnormality (RWMA) detection method based on combined rest and dobutamine-stress cardiac MRI with the assessment of myocardial infarction from contrast-enhanced MRI (CE-MRI), and to demonstrate that adding stress data improves the detection of scar segments compared with rest data alone.
Diagnosis of colorectal hepatic metastases: comparison of contrast-enhanced CT, contrast-enhanced US, superparamagnetic iron oxide-enhanced MRI, and gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI.	To compare the diagnostic accuracy of contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CE-CT), contrast-enhanced ultrasonography (CE-US), superparamagnetic iron oxide-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (SPIO-MRI), and gadoxetic acid-enhanced MRI (Gd-EOB-MRI) in the evaluation of colorectal hepatic metastases.
Steps to standardization and validation of hippocampal volumetry as a biomarker in clinical trials and diagnostic criterion for Alzheimer's disease.	The promise of Alzheimer's disease biomarkers has led to their incorporation in new diagnostic criteria and in therapeutic trials; however, significant barriers exist to widespread use. Chief among these is the lack of internationally accepted standards for quantitative metrics. Hippocampal volumetry is the most widely studied quantitative magnetic resonance imaging measure in Alzheimer's disease and thus represents the most rational target for an initial effort at standardization.
Positron emission mammography: correlation of estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 status and 18F-FDG.	The study objective was to assess the correlation between (18)F-FDG uptake values on positron emission mammography (PEM), expressed as maximum uptake value and lesion-to-background ratio, and receptor status (i.e., estrogen receptor [ER], progesterone receptor [PR], and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 [HER2]), tumor histology, and tumor grade. We also evaluated for the correlation between maximum uptake value on PEM and maximum uptake value on a whole-body PET/CT.
C-arm CT for assessing initial failure of iodized oil accumulation in chemoembolization of hepatocellular carcinoma.	The purpose of our study was to assess the feasibility of using C-arm CT to detect incomplete accumulation of iodized oil in hepatocellular carcinoma immediately after transarterial chemoembolization (TACE).
Key variables for interpreting 99mTc-mercaptoacetyltriglycine diuretic scans: development and validation of a predictive model.	The purpose of this study was to facilitate interpretation of (99m)Tc-mercaptoacetyltriglycine (MAG3) diuretic scans by identifying key interpretative variables and developing a predictive model for computer-assisted diagnosis.
Comparative evaluation of the modified CT severity index and CT severity index in assessing severity of acute pancreatitis.	The purpose of this study was to compare the modified CT severity index (MCTSI) with the CT severity index (CTSI) regarding assessment of severity parameters in acute pancreatitis (AP). Both CT indexes were also compared with the Acute Physiology, Age, and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE II) index.
Characterization of adrenal lesions with 1.5-T MRI: preliminary observations on comparison of three in-phase and out-of-phase gradient-echo techniques.	The purpose of this study was to use previously described quantitative evaluation methods to compare the performance of 3D gradient-recalled echo (GRE) and magnetization-prepared (MP) GRE in-phase and out-of phase sequences with standard 2D GRE technique in the characterization of adrenal lesions.
Image noise and liver lesion detection with MDCT: a phantom study.	The purpose of this study was to determine the upper limit of noise for detection of small low-contrast lesions in a liver phantom.
MRI of the knee ligaments and menisci: comparison of isotropic-resolution 3D and conventional 2D fast spin-echo sequences at 3 T.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic performance of sampling perfection with application-optimized contrasts using different flip-angle evolutions (SPACE) 3D fast spin-echo acquisition relative to conventional 2D fast spin-echo acquisition in the 3-T MRI evaluation of the menisci and ligaments of the knee.
Association between levels of circulating soluble CD40 ligand on admission and in-hospital events among acute coronary syndrome patients.	to investigate the association between on admission circulating sCD40L level and in-hospital events among patients admitted with acute coronary syndrome.
Assessing the reliability of the Modified Wash Test.	The aim of this paper was to find a simple method to evaluate reliably diagnosis and severity of androgenetic alopecia (AGA) and telogen effluvium (TE).
Morphine sulfate and naltrexone hydrochloride extended-release capsules: naltrexone release, pharmacodynamics, and tolerability.	Morphine sulfate and naltrexone hydrochloride extended-release capsules (EMBEDA, King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bristol, TN), indicated for management of chronic, moderate-to-severe pain, contain pellets of extended-release morphine sulfate with a sequestered naltrexone core (MS-sNT). Taken as directed, morphine provides analgesia while naltrexone remains sequestered; if tampered with by crushing, naltrexone is released to mitigate morphine-induced euphoric effects. While it is necessary to establish that formulations intended to reduce attractiveness for abuse are successful in doing so, it is also necessary to demonstrate that product therapeutic integrity is maintained for patients.
Performance evaluation of manual and automated (MagNA pure) nucleic acid isolation in HPV detection and genotyping using Roche Linear Array HPV Test.	Nucleic acids of human papillomavirus (HPV) isolated by manual extraction method (AmpliLute) and automated MagNA pure system were compared and evaluated with cytohistological findings in 253 women. The concordance level between AmpliLute and MagNA was very good 93.3% ( = 0.864, P < .0001). Overall HPVpositivity detected by AmpliLute was 57.3% (30.4% as single and 27% as multiple infections) in contrast to MagNA 54.5% (32% and 23%, resp.). Discrepant results observed in 25 cases: 11 MagNA(-)/AmpliLute(+), 10 of which had positive histology; 5 MagNA(+)/AmpliLute(-) with negative histology; 8 MagNA(+)/AmpliLute(+): in 7 of which AmpliLute detected extra HPV genotypes and 1 MagNA(invalid)/AmpliLute(+) with positive histology. Both methods performed well when compared against cytological (area under curve (AUC) of AmpliLute 0.712 versus 0.672 of MagNA) and histological diagnoses (AUC of AmpliLute 0.935 versus 0.877 of MagNA), with AmpliLute showing a slightly predominance over MagNA. However, higher sensitivities, specificities, and positive/negative predictive values were obtained by AmpliLute.
Role of C-choline positron emission tomography/computed tomography in evaluating patients affected by prostate cancer with suspected relapse due to prostate-specific antigen elevation.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of (11)C-choline positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) in restaging patients affected by prostate cancer and suspected relapse due to prostate-specific antigen (PSA) increase. We also aimed to determine a PSA cutoff that is most suited to the study in terms of best compromise between sensitivity and specificity. Secondary endpoints were a comparison between (11)C-choline PET/CT and histological results, clinical findings, and radiological imaging (CT and magnetic resonance imaging).
TGF-1 serum concentration as a complementary diagnostic biomarker of lung cancer: establishment of a cut-point value.	Lung cancer is a malignant disease with increasing mortality rates. Cytokines play a role in normal cell growth regulation and differentiation and are also implicated in malignant disease. Among these cytokines, Transforming Growth Factor  type 1 (TGF-1) acts as a tumor promoter in malignant cells. Several clinical studies have found high levels of TGF-1 in various cancer types. The aim of this study was to establish a TGF-1 cut-off point as a complementary diagnostic tool in lung cancer detection. Therefore, 72 clinically well-characterized individuals were studied, 41 lung cancer patients and 31 healthy subjects. Serum TGF-1 concentration was measured by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). We compared statistically the serum TGF-1 concentration between both groups with analysis of variance, linear regression and receiver operating curve analysis. We observed that lung cancer patients produced higher TGF-1 levels than healthy individuals (37,2259,436 vs. 28,4169,324pg/ml, P<0.001). The cut-point diagnostic value was 30,500pg/ml with 80.5% sensitivity, 64.5% specificity and odds ratio: 7.5, 95% CI: 2.6-21.8.
Evaluation of -iduronidase in dried blood spots is an accurate tool for mucopolysaccharidosis I diagnosis.	Mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I) is caused by a deficiency of the -L-iduronidase (IDUA), which leads to the accumulation of glycosaminoglycans in lysosomes. MPS I patients present a spectrum ranging from a severe to an attenuated phenotype. Once clinical suspicion is present, diagnosis of MPS I can be performed by enzyme activity determination and/or molecular analysis. The aim of this study was to establish a reference interval value to IDUA activity using a dried blood spots (DBS) assay and to evaluate whether this assay could be a secure tool to diagnose MPS I patients.
Cutoff level to detect heterozygous alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency in Turkish population.	Alpha 1 antitrypsin (AT) deficiency is a hereditary disorder leading to the defective defence system against neutrophil elastasis in lung and accumulation of insoluble heterodimer AT molecules in hepatocytes. Knowledge of the prevalence of AT deficiency in each country is important to organize the public health policy. The aim of this study is to determine the prevalence of AT deficiency in Turkish population and to define the cutoff value of AT level in serum to detect heterozygous AT deficient subjects.
Plasma interleukin-10 levels and adverse outcomes in acute coronary syndrome.	PURPOSE OR BACKGROUND: Interleukin (IL)-10 is an immunoregulatory cytokine that is produced by a variety of cell types, such as macrophages and activated monocytes. IL-10 possesses numerous anti-inflammatory, anti-thrombotic and anti-atherosclerotic properties. Furthermore, patients with acute coronary syndrome have been demonstrated to have reduced levels of IL-10 compared to their stable counterparts. For these reasons, it has been proposed that IL-10 plays a protective role in both atherogenesis and plaque vulnerability. However, 2 short-term studies on the prognostic utility of IL-10 in patients with acute coronary syndrome have provided conflicting results, with one study showing that reduced levels of IL-10 were predictors of adverse outcomes and another showing that elevated levels predicted poor outcomes. The objective of the present study was to investigate the long-term prognostic significance of baseline IL-10 levels in patients with acute coronary syndrome.
N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide in the early evaluation of suspected acute myocardial infarction.	Myocardial ischemia is a strong trigger of N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) release. As ischemia precedes necrosis in acute myocardial infarction, we hypothesized that NT-proBNP might be useful in the early diagnosis and risk stratification of patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction.
Ultrasonographic quantitative estimation of hepatic steatosis in children With NAFLD.	The diagnostic accuracy of hepatic ultrasonography (US) for detection and grading of hepatic steatosis in children with suspected nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remains poorly characterized. The aim of this study was to prospectively evaluate the clinical utility of ultrasonographic quantification of hepatic steatosis.
Quantitative analysis and diagnostic significance of methylated SLC19A3 DNA in the plasma of breast and gastric cancer patients.	Previously, we have examined the methylation status of SLC19A3 (solute carrier family 19, member 3) promoter and found that SLC19A3 was epigenetically down-regulated in gastric cancer. Here, we aim to develop a new biomarker for cancer diagnosis using methylated SLC19A3 DNA in plasma.
The intrinsic fluorescence spectrum of dilute gastric juice as a novel diagnostic tool for gastric cancer.	To investigate the intrinsic fluorescence spectrum of gastric juice as a diagnostic method for gastric cancer.
Minimum clinically important differences in the Cervical Spine Outcomes Questionnaire: results from a national multicenter study of patients treated with anterior cervical decompression and arthrodesis.	The minimum clinically important difference is a clinically relevant threshold of improvement. A substantial clinical benefit is a threshold of change that correlates with clinically important improvement. The Cervical Spine Outcomes Questionnaire is a disease-specific, patient-reported outcomes instrument that was developed to be sensitive to changes associated with surgical treatment for degenerative cervical disc disease. To determine thresholds for change in these domain scores that are important from the patient's perspective, we estimated the minimum clinically important difference and substantial clinical benefit values for this questionnaire's domain scores.
Anti-mllerian hormone is the best predictor of poor response in ICSI cycles of patients with endometriosis.	To correlate ovarian reserve (OR) markers with response in assisted reproduction techniques (ART) and determine their ability to predict poor response among patients with endometriosis (EDT).
Statistical analysis and interpretation of prenatal diagnostic imaging studies, Part 1: evaluating the efficiency of screening and diagnostic tests.	Screening and diagnostic testing play fundamental roles in all fields of clinical medicine, with obstetric imaging and prenatal diagnosis being no exceptions. With advances in maternal serum screening and ultrasound technology, much research effort in the field of pre-natal diagnosis has actually been dedicated to the development and refinement of screening tests for fetal aneuploidy and other congenital disorders. This article aims to review the differences between screening and diagnostic tests, describe the accepted criteria for an efficient screening test, and provide an overview of the calculation and interpretation of test performance characteristics in relation to prenatal imaging studies.
Low central venous oxygen saturation is associated with increased mortality in critically ill dogs.	To investigate relationships between central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO(2)) and survival to hospital discharge in dogs. Central venous oxygen saturation is an accessible measure of the balance between systemic oxygen delivery and consumption.
Identification of depressive disorder among older people in care homes - a feasibility study.	Depression is common among older people but more common among those living in care homes. Depression is not easily detected among older adults because of the presentation, and the tendency for older people not to complain of depression, particularly those living in care homes. In general, care home staff have limited training in recognising depression. Depression is undertreated and residents may not receive a therapeutic dose of antidepressant. The true prevalence of depression among care home residents is uncertain.
Pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A levels in individuals with and without coronary artery disease.	To compare pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A (PAPP-A) levels in individuals with and without coronary artery disease (CAD).
ROC analysis for evaluating the detectability of image unsharpness due to the patient's movement: phantom study comparing preview and diagnostic LCDs]	To evaluate the detectability of image unsharpness due to a patient's movement, a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was conducted to compare the diagnostic and preview liquid-crystal displays (LCDs). Phantom images that simulated a patient's movement were obtained by using a moving metronome and acrylic plates with a computed radiography (CR) system. A total of 104 images were classified into five groups according to the degrees of image unsharpness determined based on the metronome velocity and exposure time. In an ROC observer study (n=6), a 2-megapixel diagnostic monochrome LCD (2M-LCD) and a 1.3-megapixel general color LCD for preview (1.3M-LCD) were compared in terms of the detection of image unsharpness due to the movement. A statistical test was performed using the multi-reader multi-case (MRMC) method. In the results, the average areas under the ROC curve values for the detection of image unsharpness using the 2M-LCD and 1.3M-LCD were 0.952 and 0.850, respectively. The detection of image unsharpness using the 2M-LCD was significantly better than that using the 1.3M-LCD (p<0.05). In addition, some images with slight unsharpness were identified correctly only using the 2M-LCD. The results suggest that the low-resolution LCD (i.e., the 1.3M-LCD for preview) had a limitation in identifying image unsharpness due to the patient's movement. Slight unsharpness could be missed in primary image checks performed on a preview monitor equipped with an imaging system. Therefore, the high-resolution LCD (i.e., a 2M-LCD) is necessary when using radiography for diagnostics.
Prevalence, genotypes and factors associated with HCV infection among prisoners in Northeastern Brazil.	To determine hepatitis C virus (HCV) seroprevalence and its genotypes, and to identify the factors associated with HCV infection.
Elevated plasma levels of adropin in heart failure patients.	Recent studies have suggested that a higher body mass index (BMI) is associated with an improved prognosis in heart failure (HF). Adropin is a recently identified protein that has been implicated in the maintenance of energy homeostasis. In the present study, we investigated plasma adropin levels in patients with HF and evaluated the relationship between the levels and the severity of HF.
Pulse transit time in screening sleep disordered breathing in an elderly population: the PROOF-SYNAPSE study.	Pulse transit time (PPT) has been introduced as a useful screening tool to diagnose sleep disordered breathing (SDB). Since the prevalence of SDB increases with age, the question is whether PTT could be used to diagnose SDB in the elderly. We assess the effectiveness of PTT for SDB screening in a large healthy elderly population.
AST-platelet ratio index, Forns index and FIB-4 in the prediction of significant fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of aspartate aminotransferase-platelet ratio index, the Forns index and FIB-4 for the assessment of hepatic fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C patients by comparison with liver biopsy.
Serum connective tissue markers as predictors of advanced fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B and D.	Liver biopsy to assess fibrosis is invasive and prone to sampling error. While algorithms of serum markers to predict fibrosis stage have been described for chronic hepatitis C, these cannot be applied equally well to hepatitis B.
When is it necessary to perform nuclear renogram in patients with a unilateral neonatal hydronephrosis?	To examine whether anteroposterior(AP) pelvic diameter on postnatal renal ultrasound scan (US) can predict both initial differential renal function (DRF) and deterioration in DRF in patients with prenatally diagnosed hydronephrosis.
Markers of uremia and pericardial effusion in peritoneal dialysis.	Inadequate dialysis causes accumulation of toxic residues that may lead to the development of dialysis-associated pericardial effusion, but several other factors could be associated with this abnormality. The purpose of this study was to evaluate clinical risk factors to asymptomatic pericardial effusion in peritoneal dialysis.
Outcome evaluation of patients requiring tracheostomy in an intensive care unit in Trinidad.	To evaluate the outcome of patients who have undergone a tracheostomy in a multidisciplinary intensive care unit (ICU) and to determine the difference between an early and late tracheostomy.
Serotonin and cortisol as suicidogenic factors in patients with PTSD.	Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) frequently occurs in commorbidity with different mental disorders, including suicidal behaviour. Group of biological factors, including serotonergic system, HPA axis and some genetic factors, are being studied as potential markers, able to differentiate suicidal and non-suicidal behaviour across the group of PTSD patients. This study is examining statistical relation between platelet serotonine concentration and serum cortisole concentration, within the group of PTSD patients with and without attempted suicide, treated at "Sveti Ivan" Psychiatric Hospital in Zagreb. The hypothesis of this study is that periferal biochemical markers are different across the groups of PTSD patients with and without attempted suicide and the group of healthy controls. Our results have shown significantly lower platelet serotonine concentration in PTSD patients with and without suicide behaviour, compared to healthy controls. There are no statistically significant differences of the serum cortisole concentration across observed groups. Our results correspond with those reported by other authors in this area of research, suggesting that platelet serotonine level might be used as potential periferal marker to detect risk of suicidal behaviour in PTSD patients.
The clot burden score, the Boston Acute Stroke Imaging Scale, the cerebral blood volume ASPECTS, and two novel imaging parameters in the prediction of clinical outcome of ischemic stroke patients receiving intravenous thrombolytic therapy.	Recently two classification methods based on the location and the extent of thrombosis detected with CT angiography have been introduced: the Boston Acute Stroke Imaging Scale (BASIS) and the clot burden score (CBS). We studied the performance of BASIS and CBS in predicting good clinical outcome (mRS  2 at 90 days) in an acute (< 3 h) stroke cohort treated with intravenous thrombolytic therapy.
Sensitivity and specificity of the Distress Thermometer and a two-item depression screen (Patient Health Questionnaire-2) with a 'help' question for psychological distress and psychiatric morbidity in patients with advanced cancer.	Brief screening tools may help clinicians in busy settings detect patients who are experiencing severe psychological distress. This study examined the performance of the Distress Thermometer (DT) and a two-item depression screen [the Patient Health Questionnaire-2 (PHQ-2)] with a 'help' question in screening for distress and psychiatric morbidity among patients with advanced cancer.
Plasma hydroxyproline, MMP-7 and collagen I as novel predictive risk markers of hepatobiliary disease-associated cholangiocarcinoma.	Chronic opisthorchiasis caused by Opisthorchis viverrini infection is characterized by advanced periductal fibrosis leading to hepatobiliary diseases (HBD), including cholangiocarcinoma (CCA). We aimed to determine fibrotic markers to differentiate HBD status including opisthorchiasis, benign biliary disease (BBD) and CCA. Candidate fibrotic markers in plasma of healthy individuals (n = 14) and patients with opisthorchiasis (n = 32, pre- and post-treatment with praziquantel), BBD (n = 31), CCA (n = 37) and other types of tumors (n = 14) were measured by ELISA and zymography. Plasma levels of hydroxyproline (HYP), collagen I, MMP-7 and TIMP2 in opisthorchiasis patients were significantly higher than those in healthy individuals, and MMP9/TIMP2 balance may be associated with tissue resorption after praziquantel treatment. HYP and TIMP-2 levels were significantly correlated with periductal fibrosis status evaluated by ultrasonography. Plasma HYP level of CCA patients was the highest among HBD patients (p < 0.05). ROC curves revealed HYP, MMP-7 and collagen I levels significantly distinguished opisthorchiasis, BBD and CCA (p < 0.001). Odd ratio (OR) analysis demonstrated these markers in opisthorchiasis were predictable for BBD risk (p < 0.05; OR = 28.50, 10.12 and 4.63 for collagen I, MMP-7 and HYP, respectively), and the risk was reduced by praziquantel treatment. Interestingly, only plasma HYP level in BBD was predictable for CCA risk (OR = 3.69; p = 0.020). In conclusion, plasma HYP, collagen I and MMP-7 may be useful as novel predictive markers of opisthorchiasis-related BBD, and HYP may be used as a diagnostic marker for CCA.
Influence of patients' age in the probabilistic models of mortality on admission in general internal medicine wards]	The predictive models of in-hospital mortality in the departments of Internal Medicine have not reached a generalized use. Our hypothesis is that the very elderly patients interfere in the models currently in use.
The concordance and correlation of measurements by multiple electrode and light transmittance aggregometries based on the pre-defined cutoffs of high and low on-treatment platelet reactivity.	The consensus document suggested the definition of high on-treatment platelet reactivity (HPR) and future directions. Although multiple platelet function assays have developed based on different mechanisms, inter-assay concordance of HPR identification may be an important pressing need. This study was performed to correlate between the cutoffs of HPR suggested by multiple electrode (MEA) and light transmittance aggregometries (LTA). We enrolled 246 consecutive patients undergoing non-emergent percutaneous coronary intervention after dual antiplatelet therapy. On the basis of consensus document, the cutoffs of HPR to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) were defined as ADPtest  47U, and 5 and 20 M ADP-induced maximal platelet aggregation (MPA)  46% and 59%, respectively. In addition, the cutoff of low PR (LPR) for major bleeding was selected as ADPtest  19 U. ADPtest showed moderate correlations with ADP-based LTA data (0.663  r  0.710). In the receiver-operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis, ADPtest  47 U was corresponded to 5 and 20 M ADP-induced MPAs  46.4% and  56.8%, respectively. Good agreements were observed between ADPtest 47 U, and 5 M ADP-induced MPA  46% (=0.537, 80.5% of concordance rate) and 20 M ADP-induced MPA  59% (=0.564, 81.7% of concordance rate). In the ROC curve analysis for the cutoff of LPR (ADPtest  19 U), 5 and 20 M ADP-induced MPAs  26.6% and  35.3%, respectively, were suggested as the hypothetical threshold for major bleeding. On the basis of consensus document, the cutoffs of MEA- and LTA-based HPR are well matched. However, the agreement of HPR between assays is moderate, which may implicate the limitation of risk stratification by platelet function testing.
C-statistics versus logistic regression for assessing the performance of qualitative diagnostic tests.	Qualitative diagnostic tests commonly produce false positive and false negative results. Smooth receiver operated characteristic (ROC) curves are used for assessing the performance of a new test against a standard test. This method, called c-statistic (concordance) has limitations. The aim of this study was to assess whether logistic regression with the odds of disease as an outcome and the test scores as covariate, can be used as an alternative approach, and to compare the performance of either of the two methods.
Enzyme-linked immunoassay for plasma-free metanephrines in the biochemical diagnosis of phaeochromocytoma in adults is not ideal.	The aim of the study was to define the analytical and diagnostic performance of the Labor Diagnostica Nord (LDN) 2-Met plasma ELISA assay for fractionated plasma metanephrines in the biochemical diagnosis of phaeochromocytoma.
Implementation and external validation of Preoperative Aspects and Dimensions Used for an Anatomical (PADUA) score for predicting complications in 74 consecutive partial nephrectomies.	Study Type - Prognosis (case series) Level of Evidence 4 What's known on the subject? and What does the study add? Partial nephrectomy (PN) is the gold standard operation for small renal tumours. The decision for or against a PN has been based mostly on preoperative radiological evaluation of the tumour. Three nephrometry scoring systems have been recently proposed for prediction of postoperative complications of PN (RENAL, C-index and PADUA). We validate externally the accuracy of the PADUA system and suggest for the first time a novel scoring system, based on the original PADUA system, which implements three other significant factors for the postoperative course of a partial.
Contribution of routine brain MRI to the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism: a 3-year prospective follow-up study.	Various signs on routine brain MRI can help differentiate between Parkinson's disease (PD) and the various forms of atypical parkinsonism (AP). Here, we evaluate what routine brain MRI contributes to the clinical diagnosis, in both early and advanced disease stages. We performed a prospective observational study in 113 patients with parkinsonism, but without definite diagnosis upon inclusion. At baseline, patients received a structured interview, comprehensive and standardized neurological assessment, and brain MRI. The silver standard diagnosis was made after 3 years of follow-up (PD n = 43, AP n = 57), which was based on disease progression, repeat standardized neurological examination and response to treatment. The clinical diagnosis was classified as having either 'low certainty' (lower than 80%) or 'high certainty' (80% or higher). The added diagnostic yield of baseline MRI results were then studied relative to clinical neurological evaluation at presentation, and at follow-up. Sensitivity and specificity for separating AP from PD were calculated for all potentially distinguishing MRI abnormalities described previously in the literature. MRI abnormalities showed moderate to high specificity but limited sensitivity for the diagnosis of AP. These MRI abnormalities contributed little over and above the clinically based diagnosis, except when the clinical diagnosis was uncertain. For these patients, presence of putaminal or cerebellar atrophy was particularly indicative of AP. Routine brain MRI has limited added value for differentiating between PD and AP when clinical certainty is already high, but has some diagnostic value when the clinical diagnosis is still uncertain.
Early venous drainage after successful endovascular recanalization in ischemic stroke -- a predictor for final infarct volume?	Peri-ischemic early venous filling (PEVD) has been reported to occur at certain stages of brain infarction and has previously been termed as "luxury perfusion". We report on the significance of PEVD after a successful endovascular recanalization.
Intra-operative factors predicting 1-month arteriovenous fistula thrombosis.	The aim of this study is to determine clinical and ultrasound intra-operative factors related to 1-month autogenous arteriovenous fistula (AVF) thrombosis in end-stage renal failure patients.
Predicting oncologic outcomes by stratifying mesorectal extension in patients with pT3 rectal cancer: a Japanese multi-institutional study.	The goal of this study was to clarify the clinical significance of mesorectal extension in pT3 rectal cancer. This currently remains unclear. Data from 975 consecutive patients with pT3 rectal cancer that underwent curative surgery at 28 institutes were reviewed. The distance of the mesorectal extension (DME) was measured histologically. The optimal prognostic cut-off point of the DME for oncologic outcomes was determined using the receiver operating characteristic curve and Cox regression analysis. When patients were subdivided into two groups according to the optimal cut-off point, DME4 mm and DME>4 mm, DME was found to be a powerful independent risk factor for postoperative recurrence. A DME>4 mm was significantly correlated with distant and local recurrences at Stage IIA and IIIB diseases. The recurrence-free 5-year-survival rate was significantly higher in patients with a DME4 mm [86.6% at Stage IIA (p=0.00015), and 68.7% at Stage IIIB (p<0.0001)] than in patients with a DME>4 mm (71.3% at Stage IIA and 49.1% at Stage IIIB). No significant difference was noted in the oncologic outcomes between the two groups at Stage IIIC. A value of 4 mm provides the best prognostic cut-off point for patient stratification and for the prediction of oncologic outcomes. A subclassification based on a 4-mm cut-off point may improve the utility of the TNM 7th staging system except for Stage IIIC. These findings warrant further prospective studies to determine the reliability and validity of this cut-off point.
Accuracy of the digital anal examination in women with fecal incontinence.	This study aims to determine the accuracy of digital rectal examination (DRE) to detect anal sphincter defects when compared to endoanal ultrasound (US) in women with fecal incontinence (FI).
Elevated levels of serum glial fibrillary acidic protein breakdown products in mild and moderate traumatic brain injury are associated with intracranial lesions and neurosurgical intervention.	This study examines whether serum levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein breakdown products (GFAP-BDP) are elevated in patients with mild and moderate traumatic brain injury compared with controls and whether they are associated with traumatic intracranial lesions on computed tomography (CT) scan (positive CT result) and with having a neurosurgical intervention.
Collocation-based sparse estimation for constructing dynamic gene networks.	One of the open problems in systems biology is to infer dynamic gene networks describing the underlying biological process with mathematical, statistical and computational methods. The first-order difference equation-based models such as dynamic Bayesian networks and vector autoregressive models were used to infer time-lagged relationships between genes from time-series microarray data. However, two primary problems greatly reduce the effectiveness of current approaches. The first problem is the tacit assumption that time lag is stationary. The second is the inseparability between measurement noise and process noise (unmeasured disturbances that pass through time process). To address these problems, we propose a stochastic differential equation model for inferring continuous-time dynamic gene networks under the situation in which both of the process noise and the observation noise exist. We present a collocation-based sparse estimation for simultaneous parameter estimation and model selection in the model. The collocation-based approach requires considerably less computational effort than traditional methods in ordinary stochastic differential equation models. We also incorporate various biological knowledge easily to refine the estimation accuracy with the proposed method. The results using simulated data and real time-series expression data of human primary small airway epithelial cells demonstrate that the proposed approach outperforms competing approaches and can provide significant genes influenced by gefitinib.
A novel intraoral diabetes screening approach in periodontal patients: results of a pilot study.	This pilot study examines whether a novel diabetes screening approach using gingival crevicular blood (GCB) could be used to test for hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) during periodontal visits.
Value of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) mass ratio in the detection of prostate cancer in men with PSA levels of 10 ng/mL.	A group of researchers introduced a parameter named PSA mass ratio, which is defined as total circulating PSA protein (PSA [ng/mL] x plasma volume [L]) per prostate volume, as a prostate cancer screening tool. They suggested that PSA mass ratio may be representative of a PSA value adjusted for potentially influencing factors, such as haemodilution and prostate volume. By adjusting for the combined effects of plasma volume and prostate volume, it can be hypothesized that PSA mass ratio would enhance the predictive value of the PSA test. Although PSA mass ratio appears to be an attractive alternative to serum PSA level, PSA mass ratio may not significantly enhance the currently available method to predict prostate cancer detection among men with PSA level of 10 ng/mL who are undergoing prostate biopsy.
Predicting anal sphincter defects: the value of clinical examination and manometry.	The aims of this study were, firstly, to determine the diagnostic accuracy of an anal incontinence score, clinical examination and anal manometry in identifying anal sphincter defects and, secondly, to establish manometric cut-off values associated with sphincter defects.
Urinary 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine level and plasma paraoxonase 1 activity with Alzheimer's disease.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent cause of dementia and age is the most important risk factor for AD. Aging is associated with increased free radical production and oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathogenesis of AD. 8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) is a biomarker indicating oxidative DNA damage. Paraoxonase 1 (PON1) is a high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-associated antioxidant enzyme and prevents especially oxidation of low-density lipoproteins. The aim of this study is to measure urinary 8-OHdG levels and serum PON1 activity in patients with AD.
Tests of neuromuscular function are associated with fractures in patients with chronic kidney disease.	Fractures are common in individuals with chronic kidney disease (CKD), and tests of neuromuscular function (NMT) discriminate well among fractured and non-fractured patients with Stage 5 CKD on dialysis. The ability of NMT to discriminate fracture status in patients with Stages 3-5 CKD is unknown.
Prediction of semitendinosus and gracilis autograft sizes for ACL reconstruction.	The aim of this study was to predict the hamstring graft sizes prior to anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction surgery in adults by using preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Evaluating prognostic accuracy of biomarkers under competing risk.	To develop more targeted intervention strategies, an important research goal is to identify markers predictive of clinical events. A crucial step toward this goal is to characterize the clinical performance of a marker for predicting different types of events. In this article, we present statistical methods for evaluating the performance of a prognostic marker in predicting multiple competing events. To capture the potential time-varying predictive performance of the marker and incorporate competing risks, we define time- and cause-specific accuracy summaries by stratifying cases based on causes of failure. Such definition would allow one to evaluate the predictive accuracy of a marker for each type of event and compare its predictiveness across event types. Extending the nonparametric crude cause-specific receiver operating characteristics curve estimators by Saha and Heagerty (2010), we develop inference procedures for a range of cause-specific accuracy summaries. To estimate the accuracy measures and assess how covariates may affect the accuracy of a marker under the competing risk setting, we consider two forms of semiparametric models through the cause-specific hazard framework. These approaches enable a flexible modeling of the relationships between the marker and failure times for each cause, while efficiently accommodating additional covariates. We investigate the asymptotic property of the proposed accuracy estimators and demonstrate the finite sample performance of these estimators through simulation studies. The proposed procedures are illustrated with data from a prostate cancer prognostic study.
Validation of three BRCA1/2 mutation-carrier probability models Myriad, BRCAPRO and BOADICEA in a population-based series of 183 German families.	Many studies have evaluated the performance of risk assessment models for BRCA1/2 mutation carrier probabilities in different populations, but to our knowledge very few studies have been conducted in the German population so far. In the recent study, we validated the performance of three risk calculation models by names BRCAPRO, Myriad and BOADICEA in 183 German families who had undergone molecular testing of mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 with an indication based on clinical criteria regarding their family history of cancer. The sensitivity and specificity at the conventional threshold of 10% as well as for a threshold of 20% were evaluated. The ability to discriminate between carriers and non-carriers was judged by the area under the receiver operating characteristics curve. We further focused on the performance characteristic of these models in patients carrying large genomic rearrangements as a subtype of mutations which is currently gaining increasing importance. BRCAPRO and BOADICEA performed almost equally well in our patient population, but we found a lack of agreement to Myriad. The results obtained from this study were consistent with previously published results from other population and racial/ethnic groups. We suggest using model specific decision thresholds instead of the recommended universal value of 10%. We further suggest integrating the CaGene5 software package, which includes BRCAPRO and Myriad, in the genetic counselling of German families with suspected inherited breast and ovarian cancer because of the good performance of BRCAPRO and the substantial ease of use of this software.
Analysis of risk factors for valve replacements in 5,128 cases from a single heart center in China.	Numerous studies have developed a "severity score" or "risk index" for short-term mortality associated with coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Due to the different distribution of disease types, the number of valve surgeries in the US and Europe is relatively small. Thus, a risk-scoring system for valve surgeries was developed later and used less than that for the CABG surgery. We retrospectively reviewed 5128 cases of heart valve replacement, to quantitatively assess the risk factors for hospital mortality, and establish risk models for the hospital mortality of cardiac valve replacement patients.
Prognostic factors after liver resection for hepatocellular carcinoma: a single-center experience from China.	This study aimed to clarify the risk factors for survival and recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in a cohort of Chinese HCC patients after hepatectomy and to compare 6 developed staging systems.
Cutoff value of choline concentration reliably reveals high-grade brain tumors among other contrast-enhancing brain lesions.	To evaluate whether there is a cutoff value for a metabolite concentration measured by 1 H MR spectroscopy (MRS), which can be used to differentiate malignant brain tumors (high-grade gliomas, primary CNS lymphomas [PCNSL] and metastases) from other contrast-enhancing lesions like low-grade gliomas and non-neoplastic lesions.
Sinus nodal response to adenosine relates to the severity of sinus node dysfunction.	It is unknown as to whether the result of adenosine testing for the diagnosis of sinus node dysfunction (SND) depends on the clinical presentation. We investigated whether syncope or presyncope are associated with a more pronounced sinus nodal inhibition by adenosine in SND.
Pharmacophore modeling and virtual screening studies to identify new c-Met inhibitors.	Mesenchymal epithelial transition factor (c-Met) is an attractive target for cancer therapy. Three-dimensional pharmacophore hypotheses were built based on a set of known structurally diverse c-Met inhibitors. The best pharmacophore model, which identified inhibitors with an associated correlation coefficient of 0.983 between their experimental and estimated IC(50) values, consisted of two hydrogen-bond acceptors, one hydrophobic, and one ring aromatic feature. The highly predictive power of the model was rigorously validated by test set prediction and Fischer's randomization method. The high values of enrichment factor and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) score indicated the model performed fairly well at distinguishing active from inactive compounds. The model was then applied to screen compound database for potential c-Met inhibitors. A filtering protocol, including druggability and molecular docking, were also applied in hits selection. The final 38 molecules, which exhibited good estimated activities, desired binding mode and favorable drug likeness were identified as potential c-Met inhibitors. Their novel backbone structures could be served as scaffolds for further study, which may facilitate the discovery and rational design of potent c-Met kinase inhibitors.
Discrimination of healthy and glaucomatous eyes based on the ocular pulse amplitude: a diagnostic case-control study.	By measuring the ocular pulse amplitude (OPA), the dynamic contour tonometer (DCT) assesses intraocular pressure (IOP). Hypothesizing that OPA is characteristic for the IOP when considered with the systemic arterial blood pressure, we assumed the ratio of ocular and arterial pulsation amplitudes is larger in glaucoma patients. Bi-ocular DCT-OPA assessment was synchronized with arterial pulsations using Finapres technology, thereby enabling blood pressure determination for each corresponding IOP value every 0.01 s for 12 s. Based on measurements and calculations in 10 healthy subjects and 11 glaucoma patients, we conclude that the ratio of the OPA and blood pressure variances is a strong glaucoma diagnostic indicator, thereby justifying further investigation.
Characterizing tumor heterogeneity with functional imaging and quantifying high-risk tumor volume for early prediction of treatment outcome: cervical cancer as a model.	Treatment response in cancer has been monitored by measuring anatomic tumor volume (ATV) at various times without considering the inherent functional tumor heterogeneity known to critically influence ultimate treatment outcome: primary tumor control and survival. This study applied dynamic contrast-enhanced (DCE) functional MRI to characterize tumors' heterogeneous subregions with low DCE values, at risk for treatment failure, and to quantify the functional risk volume (FRV) for personalized early prediction of treatment outcome.
Automatic diagnosis of mammographic abnormalities based on hybrid features with learning classifier.	Breast cancer screening is currently performed by mammography, which is limited by overlying anatomy and dense breast tissue. Computer-aided detection (CAD) systems can serve as a double reader to improve radiologist performance. In this paper, we have applied a novel approach to segmentation of suspicious region by mammogram and classification based on hybrid features with learning classifier. We formulated differentiation of lesion from normal tissue as a supervised learning problem, and applied this learning method to develop the classification algorithm. The algorithm has been verified with 164 mammograms in the mini Mammographic Image Analysis Society database. The experimental results show that the detection method has a sensitivity of 94.5% at 0.26 false positives per image. The efficiency of algorithm is measured using free receiver operating characteristics curve and the results are highlighted. We conclude that CAD technology with learning classifier has the potential to help radiologists with the task of discriminating between lesion and normal tissues. 
Development and validation of a prognostic index for 2-year mortality in Chinese older residents living in nursing homes.	There is no mortality prediction index for Chinese nursing home older residents. The objective of this study was to derive and validate a 2-year mortality prognostic index for them.
Haemoglobin A1c cut-off point to identify a high risk group of future diabetes: results from the Omiya MA Cohort Study.	Using the HbA(1c) level to define diabetes has several advantages and these advantages also apply to define a high-risk group. However, the risk of diabetes increases as HbA(1c) increases and a certain degree of arbitrariness in the cut-off for the high risk group is unavoidable. The aim of this study was to determine the HbA(1c) cut-off for defining a high-risk group that corresponds to the fasting plasma glucose cut-off by comparing the risk of diabetes against the fasting plasma glucose and HbA(1c) levels in the Japanese population.
Evaluation of salivary cortisol measurements for the diagnosis of subclinical Cushing's syndrome.	Late-night salivary cortisol (NSC) has been recognized as a sensitive and easy-to-perform screening test for the diagnosis of overt Cushing's syndrome (CS).  However, there have been few reports on the diagnostic utility of salivary cortisol (SC) measurement in the diagnosis of subclinical Cushing's syndrome (SCS).  Therefore, the present study was designed to evaluate the usefulness of SC measurements at late-night and after overnight 1 mg dexamethasone suppression test (DST) for the diagnosis of SCS in 42 patients with adrenal incidentaloma.  We evaluated 16 patients with SCS, 12 with nonfunctioning adenoma (NFA), 8 with primary aldosteronism (PA), and 6 with pheochromocytoma (Pheo).  NSC levels in SCS patients (0.238  0.106 g/dL) were significantly (P < 0.05) higher than those in NFA patients (0.154  0.104 g/dL); the cutoff value (0.11 g/dL) by ROC analysis gave high sensitivity (100%) with low specificity (50%).  Post DST SC levels in SCS patients (0.238  0.116 g/dL) were significantly (P = 0.0081) higher than those in NFA patients (0.136  0.110 g/dL); the cutoff value (0.12 g/dL) by ROC analysis gave high sensitivity (93.8%) with somewhat improved specificity (58.3%).  Both NSC and post DST SC levels were comparable between NFA, PA, and Pheo patients.  In conclusion, our study revealed that measurements of NSC and/or post DST SC among patients with adrenal incidentaloma prove to have high sensitivities, but low specificities for the diagnosis of SCS from NFA, suggesting its possible alternative option before the screening tests for SCS currently employed in Japan.
Comparative responsiveness of the EuroQol-5D and Short Form 6D to improvement in patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with tumor necrosis factor blockers: results of the Dutch Rheumatoid Arthritis Monitoring registry.	For cost-utility analyses of health technologies, utilities are commonly measured with the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) or the Short Form 6D (SF-6D). Although most studies in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) found the SF-6D to be more responsive than the EQ-5D, evidence is not convincing. The aim of this study was to compare the responsiveness of the EQ-5D and SF-6D to improvement in RA patients treated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers.
Diagnostic accuracy of MRI for assessment of T category, lymph node metastases, and circumferential resection margin involvement in patients with rectal cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is increasingly being used for rectal cancer staging. The purpose of this study was to determine the accuracy of phased array MRI for T category (T1-2 vs. T3-4), lymph node metastases, and circumferential resection margin (CRM) involvement in primary rectal cancer.
HbA1c and glucose intolerance in obese children and adolescents.	Childhood obesity is associated with an increased likelihood for having impaired glucose tolerance, dyslipidaemia and diabetes. The aim of the study was to evaluate HbA(1c) as a screening test for impaired glucose tolerance in obese children and adolescents and identify the optimal HbA(1c) threshold.
Bayesian quantitative electrophysiology and its multiple applications in bioengineering.	Bayesian interpretation of observations began in the early 1700s, and scientific electrophysiology began in the late 1700s. For two centuries these two fields developed mostly separately. In part that was because quantitative Bayesian interpretation, in principle a powerful method of relating measurements to their underlying sources, often required too many steps to be feasible with hand calculation in real applications. As computer power became widespread in the later 1900s, Bayesian models and interpretation moved rapidly but unevenly from the domain of mathematical statistics into applications. Use of Bayesian models now is growing rapidly in electrophysiology. Bayesian models are well suited to the electrophysiological environment, allowing a direct and natural way to express what is known (and unknown) and to evaluate which one of many alternatives is most likely the source of the observations, and the closely related receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve is a powerful tool in making decisions. Yet, in general, many people would ask what such models are for, in electrophysiology, and what particular advantages such models provide. So to examine this question in particular, this review identifies a number of electrophysiological papers in bioengineering arising from questions in several organ systems to see where Bayesian electrophysiological models or ROC curves were important to the results that were achieved.
Serum angiotensin-converting enzyme level as a marker of fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B.	and aims: Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a public health problem and affects nearly 350 million people worldwide. The present study was conducted in order to investigate the role of circulating angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in the context of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone in newly diagnosed chronic hepatitis B infection. Moreover the association between liver fibrosis and serum ACE levels was also investigated.
Artificial neural networks based prediction of cerebral palsy in infants with central coordination disturbance.	In a previous study we demonstrated that heart variability parameters (HRV) could be helpful clinically as well as a prognostic tool in infants with central coordination disturbance (CCD). In recent years, outcome predictions using artificial neural networks (ANN) have been developed in many areas of health care research, but there are no published studies considered ANN models for prediction of cerebral palsy (CP) development.
Combination of angiographic and clinical characteristics for the prediction of clinical outcomes in patients undergoing unprotected left main coronary artery stenting.	Risk stratification is essential for the clinical decision-making process in patients undergoing revascularization of the unprotected left main coronary artery (ULMCA), since the optimal revascularization strategy still remains subject of ongoing debate.
Evaluation of a self-assessed screening test for masticatory ability of Taiwanese older adults.	The aim of this study was to evaluate a screening test based on a food intake questionnaire to discriminate the masticatory ability of Taiwanese older adults with 20 and more natural teeth and at least 8 functional tooth units (FTUs) from the masticatory ability of those with fewer than 20 natural teeth and 8 FTUs.
The phenomenon of "QT stunning": the abnormal QT prolongation provoked by standing persists even as the heart rate returns to normal in patients with long QT syndrome.	Patients with long QT syndrome (LQTS) have inadequate shortening of the QT interval in response to the sudden heart rate accelerations provoked by standing-a phenomenon of diagnostic value. We now validate our original observations in a cohort twice as large. We also describe that this abnormal QT-interval response persists as the heart rate acceleration returns to baseline.
Evaluation of cardiovascular risk in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: do cardiovascular biomarkers offer added predictive ability over established clinical risk scores?	To determine whether adding C-reactive protein, anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies, rheumatoid factor, N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL), or anti-apolipoprotein A-I (anti-Apo A-I) IgG to the Framingham 10-year cardiovascular (CV) risk score (FRS) could improve its CV prognostic accuracy in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Detection and diagnostic value of urine leucine-rich -2-glycoprotein in children with suspected acute appendicitis.	Previously, we used a proteomics approach for the discovery of new diagnostic markers of acute appendicitis and identified leucine-rich -2-glycoprotein (LRG) that was elevated in the urine of children with acute appendicitis and enriched in diseased appendices. Here, we sought to evaluate the diagnostic utility of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) of urine LRG in a blinded, prospective, cohort study of children being evaluated for acute abdominal pain.
Can the pathology of a thyroid nodule be determined by positron emission tomography uptake?	To determine if standardized uptake values (SUV) on positron emission tomography (PET) are predictive of thyroid pathology and the significance of serial SUV measurements of thyroid nodules over time.
Obstructive sleep apnea is underrecognized and underdiagnosed in patients undergoing bariatric surgery.	The aim of this study was to evaluate prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea among patients undergoing bariatric surgery and the predictive value of various clinical parameters: body mass index (BMI), neck circumference (NC) and the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS). We performed a prospective, multidisciplinary, single-center observational study including all patients on the waiting list for bariatric surgery between June 2009 and June 2010, irrespective of history or clinical findings. Patients visited our ENT outpatient clinic for patient history, ENT and general examination and underwent a full night polysomnography, unless performed previously. As much as 69.9% of the patients fulfilled the criteria for OSA (mean BMI 44.2  SD 6.4 kg/m(2)); 40.4% of the patients met the criteria for severe OSA. The regression models found BMI to be the best clinical predictor, while the ROC curve found the NC to be the most accurate predictor of the presence of OSA. The discrepancy of the results and the poor statistical power suggest that all three clinical parameters are inadequate predictors of OSA. In conclusion, in this large patient series, 69.9% of patients undergoing BS meet the criteria for OSA. More than 40% of these patients have severe OSA. A mere 13.3% of the patients were diagnosed with OSA before being placed on the waiting list for BS. On statistical analysis, increased neck circumference, BMI and the ESS were found to be insufficient predictors of the presence of OSA. Polysomnography is an essential component of the preoperative workup of patients undergoing BS. When OSA is found, specific perioperative measures are indicated.
Utility of the transition zone index for identification of prostate cancer in Chinese men with intermediate PSA levels.	We aimed to investigate the utility of the transition zone index (TZI) for identification of prostate cancer (PCa) in Chinese men with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels of 4-10 ng/mL.
Does the LATCH score assessed in the first 24 hours after delivery predict non-exclusive breastfeeding at hospital discharge?	The aims of this study were to analyze the relationship between the LATCH score assessed in the first 24 hours after delivery and non-exclusive breastfeeding at discharge and to identify a cutoff for the LATCH score in order to identify women with higher risk of non-exclusive breastfeeding who may need additional breastfeeding support.
A novel significance score for gene selection and ranking.	When identifying differentially expressed (DE) genes from high-throughput gene expression measurements, we would like to take both statistical significance (such as P-value) and biological relevance (such as fold change) into consideration. In gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), a score that can combine fold change and P-value together is needed for better gene ranking.
The Modified Glasgow Outcome Score for the prediction of outcome in patients after cardiac arrest: a prospective clinical proof of concept study.	The Glasgow-Pittsburgh cerebral performance categories (GP-CPC) and the Glasgow Outcome Score (GOS) have been used to categorize patients according to their neurological outcome for prognostic predictors in patients after cardiac arrest (CA). We postulated that inclusion of deaths without knowing the cerebral status into the group of patients with poor outcome after CA using the GP-CPC and GOS will lead to dilution of the prognostic power of the investigated biochemical marker. The present study was conducted to verify this issue by employing a modified outcome score, which we termed as Modified Glasgow Outcome Score (MGOS). In the present study, 97 patients were enrolled in a prospective manner. Serum NSE and S100B levels were measured daily for 7 days after admission to the intensive care unit. Neurological outcome was assessed by employing the GOS and MGOS after 6 months. By employing the GOS, 46 patients were categorized into the group of patients with poor outcome and 51 patients survived with good neurological outcome. Patients who died without certified brain damage or with unknown cerebral status after CA (n = 20) were separated from patients with poor outcome in the MGOS. The magnitude of NSE (S100B) elevation in patients with poor outcome categorized by the MGOS was approximately 1.7-fold (1.5) higher as compared with patients divided by the GOS. The mean calculated sensitivities and area under the curve values of NSE and S100B predicting poor outcome classified by the MGOS were significantly higher as compared with the GOS. Conclusively, inclusion of deaths without certified brain damage or with unknown cerebral status into the group of patients with poor outcome will lead to underestimation of the prognostic power of investigated biochemical markers such as NSE and S100B. The MGOS will help to avoid this bias.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-1 (MKP-1) gene is a potential methylation biomarker for malignancy of breast cancer.	The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphatase- 1 (MKP-1) belongs to the MAPK cascades which are central to cell proliferation and apoptosis. The carcinogenic role of MKP-1 has been reported in many types of cancer but it has rarely been investigated in breast cancer. The present study was designed to evaluate the MKP-1 mRNA expression and its possible regulation by methylation of MKP-1 promoter in the model of several breast cancer cell lines and tissues as well as controls. Our data demonstrate MKP-1 mRNA expression significantly decreased in five breast cancer cell lines compared to breast controls (P<0.01). Using the methylation-specific PCR (MSP) analysis, the unmethylated reaction (U) is dominant in both normal cell lines and benign breast tumors (100% vs. 86.2%), whereas the methylated reaction (M) is dominant in both breast cancer cell lines and invasive breast tumors (100% vs. 57.2%). In terms of methylation ratio (M/M+U), methylation level in MKP-1 promoter is significantly higher in the invasive breast tumor tissues (n = 152) than in benign breast tumor tissues (n = 29) (P<0.0001). Assessing the methylation ratio of the promoter of MKP-1 gene to diagnose the breast malignancy (invasive vs. benign), the area under the receiver- operating characteristic (ROC) curve was 0.809 (95% CI: 0.711-0.906, P<0.001). The best performance for this prediction has a sensitivity of 76.32% and a specificity of 82.76% at the cutoff value of 0.38. Taken together, we firstly demonstrated that the promoter methylation of MKP-1 gene is a potential breast cancer biomarker for breast malignancy.
Intravascular ultrasound lumen area parameters for assessment of physiological ischemia by fractional flow reserve in intermediate coronary artery stenosis.	A fractional flow reserve (FFR) of <0.8 is currently used to guide revascularization in lesions with intermediate coronary stenosis. Whether there is an intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) measurement or a cutoff value that can reliably determine which of these intermediate lesions requires intervention is unclear.
Investigation of two novel biochemical markers of inflammation, matrix metalloproteinase and cathepsin generated fragments of C-reactive protein, in patients with ankylosing spondylitis.	Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammation of the spine and the sacroiliac joints. Current markers of inflammation, such as C-reactive protein (CRP), are reflecting the production of an acute phase reactant rather than tissue specific inflammation, but the use of CRP as a diagnostic and prognostic marker for AS has not provided the sought accuracy and specificity. We hypothesized that local enzymatic activity in the disease-affected tissue, which is associated with extensive tissue turnover may, by cleavage, modify the CRP produced in the liver. These cleavage products may provide additional information on systemic inflammation as compared to that of full-length CRP. We investigated whether these CRP degradation products would provide additional diagnostic value in AS patients compared to full-length CRP.
Liver biopsy analysis has a low level of performance for diagnosis of intermediate stages of fibrosis.	There is controversy about the performance of noninvasive tests such as FibroTest in diagnosing intermediate stages of fibrosis. We investigated whether this controversy results from limitations of biopsy analysis for intermediate-stage fibrosis and inappropriate determination of the standard area under the receiver-operator characteristic curve (AUROC).
Reliability and construct validity of the karate-specific aerobic test.	ABThe aim of this study was to examine absolute and relative reliabilities and external responsiveness of the Karate-specific aerobic test (KSAT). This study comprised 43 male karatekas, 19 of them participated in the first study to establish test-retest reliability and 40, selected on the bases of their karate experience and level of practice, participated in the second study to identify external responsiveness of the KSAT. The latter group was divided into 2 categories: national-level group (G(n)) and regional-level group (G(r)). Analysis showed excellent test-retest reliability of time to exhaustion (TE), with intraclass correlation coefficient ICC(3,1) >0.90, standard error of measurement (SEM) <5%: (3.2%) and mean difference (bias)  the 95% limits of agreement: -9.5  78.8 seconds. There was a significant difference between test-retest session in peak lactate concentration (Peak [La]) (9.12  2.59 vs. 8.05  2.67 mmolL(-1); p < 0.05) but not in peak heart rate (HRpeak) and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) (196  9 vs. 194  9 bmin(-1) and 7.6  0.93 vs. 7.8  1.15; p > 0.05), respectively. National-level karate athletes (1,032  101 seconds) were better than regional level (841  134 seconds) on TE performance during KSAT (p < 0.001). Thus, KSAT provided good external responsiveness. The area under the receiver operator characteristics curve was >0.70 (0.86; confidence interval 95%: 0.72-0.95). Significant difference was detected in Peak [La] between national- (6.09  1.78 mmolL(-1)) and regional-level (8.48  2.63 mmolL(-1)) groups, but not in HRpeak (194  8 vs. 195  8 bmin(-1)) and RPE (7.57  1.15 vs. 7.42  1.1), respectively. The result of this study indicates that KSAT provides excellent absolute and relative reliabilities. The KSAT can effectively distinguish karate athletes of different competitive levels. Thus, the KSAT may be suitable for field assessment of aerobic fitness of karate practitioners.
Quantifying discrimination of Framingham risk functions with different survival C statistics.	Cardiovascular risk prediction functions offer an important diagnostic tool for clinicians and patients themselves. They are usually constructed with the use of parametric or semi-parametric survival regression models. It is essential to be able to evaluate the performance of these models, preferably with summaries that offer natural and intuitive interpretations. The concept of discrimination, popular in the logistic regression context, has been extended to survival analysis. However, the extension is not unique. In this paper, we define discrimination in survival analysis as the model's ability to separate those with longer event-free survival from those with shorter event-free survival within some time horizon of interest. This definition remains consistent with that used in logistic regression, in the sense that it assesses how well the model-based predictions match the observed data. Practical and conceptual examples and numerical simulations are employed to examine four C statistics proposed in the literature to evaluate the performance of survival models. We observe that they differ in the numerical values and aspects of discrimination that they capture. We conclude that the index proposed by Harrell is the most appropriate to capture discrimination described by the above definition. We suggest researchers report which C statistic they are using, provide a rationale for their selection, and be aware that comparing different indices across studies may not be meaningful.
Tissue Doppler-derived measurement of isovolumic myocardial contraction in the pediatric population.	Multiple echocardiographic techniques have been utilized to quantify systolic function. The shortening and ejection fraction remain the most commonly used and accepted methods. However, these measures are affected by altered loading conditions, and are not applicable when ventricular geometry differs from the prolate ellipsoid typical of a left ventricle. Mitral valve annular acceleration during isovolumic contraction (IVA) has been proposed as a load independent index of left ventricular contractility. However, published values for IVA demonstrating normal function vary. In addition, the value of IVA which may discern impaired systolic function has not been established. The purpose of this study is to determine a threshold IVA value for abnormal left ventricular function in the pediatric population. Structurally/functionally normal control (n = 90) and dilated cardiomyopathy (study = 64) patients were compared for differences in left ventricular: wall stress (WS), velocity of circumferential fiber shortening (VCFc), ejection fraction (EF), ejection force, and pulsed wave-derived medial and lateral wall IVA. No difference in body surface area (p = 0.61) or gender (p = 0.53) was noted. Left ventricular ejection fraction, ejection force, VCFc, and IVA were significantly lower and WS was significantly higher in the study group (p < 0.01). The medial IVA was 1.71  0.89 m/s(2) for an EF <40%, 1.74  0.70 m/s(2) for an EF = 40-50%, 2.46  0.89 m/s(2) for an EF >50%. The lateral IVA was 1.81  1.03 m/s(2) for an EF <40%, 2.07  0.78 m/s(2) for an EF = 40-50%, 2.54  0.99 m/s(2) for an EF >50%. ROC analysis demonstrated a medial IVA of 1.97 m/s(2) as the cut-off for predicting an EF <50% with a 77% sensitivity of and specificity of 66% (AUC = 0.75, CI = 0.67-0.83, p < 0.01). ROC analysis demonstrated a lateral IVA of 2.31 m/s(2) as the cut-off for predicting an EF <50% with a 73% sensitivity of and specificity of 63% (AUC = 0.72, CI = 0.63-0.82, p < 0.01). IVA lateral of 1.93 m/s(2) or less was associated with heart transplant and death. ICC analysis demonstrated some interobserver variability in IVA measurement (0.57-0.65). The normal IVA of the medial and lateral mitral valve annulus measure over 1.97 m/s(2) and 2.31 m/s(2), respectively; values less than this cut-off are associated with EF <50%. Despite some problems with reproducibility IVA remains a promising method of screening for diminished ventricular contractility in the setting of abnormal geometry.
Evaluation of the duration of the antibiotic prophylaxis in paediatric postoperative heart surgery patients.	The ideal duration of postoperative antibiotic prophylaxis in heart surgery is unknown. The most recent guidelines recommend a decrease in prophylaxis time to decrease the emergence of multiresistant germs. However, compliance with these recommendations is scant. Our aim was to determine whether a decrease in prophylaxis time entails an increase in the infection rate. A retrospective study was performed between September 2003 and March 2006, including all patients of ages between 1 day and 14 years who were admitted to the intensive care unit after heart surgery. Patients being treated for an infection at the time of surgery were excluded. The appearance of nosocomial infection, localisation, and the causative agent, if isolated, were included; demographic and clinical analytical variables, duration and type of antibiotic prophylaxis, and duration of other invasive devices were also included. Standard analysis and multivariable logistical regression were performed. 194 patients were included in the study. The median duration of antibiotic prophylaxis was 72 h (range 24 to 176), with the most-used prophylaxis regimen being second-generation cephalosporins plus aminoglycosides. The incidence of nosocomial infection, mainly bacteraemia, was 11.9%. The type of antibiotic therapy used for prophylaxis did not affect the incidence of infection. In the multivariable logistical regression, only prolongation of antibiotic prophylaxis >48 h, central venous access maintenance time, and intubation increased the infection rate. The suspension of antibiotic prophylaxis in the 48 h after surgery in pediatric patients undergoing heart surgery does not increase the incidence of nosocomial infection. According to our results, prolongation of prophylaxis >48 h increases the infection rate.
Decision criteria in dual discrimination tasks estimated using external-noise methods.	According to classical signal detection theory (SDT), in simple detection or discrimination tasks, observers use a decision parameter based on their noisy internal response to set a boundary between "yes" and "no" responses. Experimental paradigms where performance is limited by internal noise cannot be used to provide an unambiguous measure of the decision criterion and its variability. Here, unidimensional external noise is used to estimate a criterion and its variability in stimulus space. Within this paradigm, the criterion is defined as the stimulus value separating the two response alternatives. This paradigm allows the assessment of interactions between criteria assigned to different targets in dual tasks. Previous studies suggested that observers' criteria interacted or even collapsed to one (hence, nonoptimal) criterion. An alternative interpretation of those results is that observers equated their false alarm (FA) rates. The external-noise method enables the confrontation of the two hypotheses. It is shown that the variability of observers' criterion in stimulus space is about 1.6 times their measured sensory threshold, suggesting that the presence of external noise increases decision uncertainty. Observers' stimulus criterion settings are close to SDT predictions in single tasks, but not in dual tasks where the two criteria tend to "attract" each other. Observers maintain distinct FA rates even when SDT predicts equal rates. Observers trained in psychophysics or provided with basic notions of SDT exemplified with the present experimental design manage to better separate their criteria in some conditions.
Ruptured status discrimination performance of aspect ratio, height/width, and bottleneck factor is highly dependent on aneurysm sizing methodology.	Numerous size and shape parameters have historically been used to describe cerebral aneurysms and to correlate rupture status. These parameters are often inconsistently defined.
Which prediction models best identify additional axillary disease after a positive sentinel node biopsy for breast cancer?	To determine which web-based model best identifies women at low risk of further axillary disease after a positive sentinel lymph node (SLN+) biopsy. 673 women with T1-2cN0M0 SNB+ breast cancer who underwent completion axillary dissection (AxD) were identified. A subgroup not eligible to avoid AxD as part of the Z0011 study was defined (Z0011 exclusion group). Predicted risk of further axillary disease was generated using seven web-based models. "Low risk" was defined as a 10% risk of further axillary disease. False negative ("low risk" prediction but AxD+) rates (FNRs), area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC), and Brier score were determined for each model. 6 of 7 models identified "low risk" patients but FNRs ranged from 14 to 30%. The Stanford and Memorial Sloan-Kettering (MSKCC) models had the best FNRs. FNRs were lower with SLN micrometastasis (7-15%) and higher in the Z0011 exclusion group (21-41%). All models under-predicted further nodal disease in low risk patients and over-predicted in higher-risk patients. The Stanford and MSKCC models were able to identify women with SLN micrometastasis with a 10% FNR. Models were not able to accurately identify low risk women from a cohort that would have been excluded from Z0011.
In the cystoscopic follow-up of non-muscle-invasive transitional cell carcinoma, NMP-22 works for high grades, but unreliable in low grades and upper urinary tract tumors.	Two percent of the bladder non-muscle-invasive (NMI) transitional cell carcinomas (TCC) are associated with upper urinary tract (UUT) TCC. We evaluated the role of nuclear matrix protein-22 (NMP-22) (BladderChek) test in the diagnosis of lower urinary tract and UUT-TCC.
Preoperative insulin secretion ability and pancreatic parenchymal thickness as useful parameters for predicting postoperative insulin secretion in patients undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy.	Periampullary malignant neoplasms have been increasing in Japan, mainly in response to an increase in the incidences of pancreatic cancer, and glucose intolerance due to deterioration of insulin secretion is an important problem.  We investigated preoperative parameters to predict postoperative insulin secretion and the need for insulin therapy in patients undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD).  Thirty-six patients with malignant neoplasms of periampullary lesions were enrolled.  Preoperative pancreatic parenchymal thickness was evaluated by computed tomography.  Insulin secretion and glucose tolerance were evaluated by a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test and an intravenous glucagon loading test.  The relationships between postoperative insulin secretion and preoperative parameters and the cut-off values for predicting the need for postoperative insulin therapy for glycemic control were investigated.  Pancreatic parenchymal thickness and other preoperative parameters, including the increment of serum C-peptide ( C-peptide), fasting plasma C-peptide (F-CPR), insulinogenic index (I.I.) and fasting plasma glucose (FPG), were significantly associated with postoperative insulin secretion.  Multiple regression analyses revealed that preoperative  C-peptide or F-CPR was the most significant determinant of postoperative insulin secretion, followed by pancreatic parenchymal thickness.  In the receiver operating characteristic curve, the best preoperative cut-off values for predicting the need for postoperative insulin therapy were a  C-peptide of 0.65 ng/mL, a F-CPR of 0.85 ng/mL and a pancreatic parenchymal thickness of 6.0 mm.  Both preoperative insulin secretion and pancreatic parenchymal thickness effectively predict postoperative insulin secretion and identify subjects who need postoperative insulin therapy for glycemic control.
Portability of an algorithm to identify rheumatoid arthritis in electronic health records.	Electronic health records (EHR) can allow for the generation of large cohorts of individuals with given diseases for clinical and genomic research. A rate-limiting step is the development of electronic phenotype selection algorithms to find such cohorts. This study evaluated the portability of a published phenotype algorithm to identify rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients from EHR records at three institutions with different EHR systems.
Pelvic floor muscle strength predicts stress urinary incontinence in primiparous women after vaginal delivery.	This study aimed to investigate obstetrical, neonatal, and clinical predictors of stress urinary incontinence (SUI) focusing on pelvic floor muscle (PFM) strength after vaginal delivery.
Value of Islet 1 and PAX8 in identifying metastatic neuroendocrine tumors of pancreatic origin.	Neuroendocrine tumors can present as liver metastases before discovery of the primary tumor. Islet 1 and PAX8 have recently been proposed as markers for neuroendocrine tumors of pancreatic origin. In this study, we compared the utility of Islet 1 and PAX8 in distinguishing pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors from neuroendocrine tumors of other sites and determined the usefulness of an immunohistochemical panel, including TTF1, CDX2, Islet 1 and/or PAX8, in identifying metastatic pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. A total of 110 primary neuroendocrine tumors (33 pancreatic, 31 pulmonary, 23 ileal, 14 rectal, and 9 gastric) and 73 metastatic neuroendocrine tumors (28 pancreatic, 5 pulmonary, 37 ileal, 1 rectal, 1 colonic, and 1 duodenal) were studied. Islet 1 and PAX8 were positive in 27/33 (82%) and 29/33 (88%), respectively, of primary pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, and in 19/28 (68%) and 15/28 (54%), respectively, of metastatic pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. No cases of primary (0/23) or metastatic (0/37) ileal neuroendocrine tumors were positive with either Islet 1 or PAX8. There was Islet 1 positivity in 2/31 (6%) primary pulmonary, 12/14 (86%) primary rectal, and 1/1 metastatic rectal neuroendocrine tumors, and PAX8 positivity in 7/31 (23%) primary pulmonary, 11/14 (79%) primary rectal, and 2/9 (22%) primary gastric neuroendocrine tumors. ROC curve analysis incorporating sensitivity and specificity data of immunohistochemical panels for metastatic pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors showed that a four-stain panel, including Islet 1, PAX8, TTF1, and CDX2 significantly outperformed a three-stain panel composed of PAX8, TTF1, and CDX2 (P=0.019), and also showed a trend for better performance compared with a three-stain panel composed of Islet 1, TTF1, and CDX2 (P=0.072). Both Islet 1 and PAX8 are reliable immunohistochemical markers for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors and would be useful adjuncts to other markers (TTF1, CDX2) currently used to work up a metastatic neuroendocrine tumor of unknown primary.
Preoperative risk factors for in-hospital mortality and validity of the Glasgow aneurysm score and Hardman index in patients with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm.	The aim of this study is to evaluate the validity of the Glasgow aneurysm score (GAS) and Hardman index in patients operated on because of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (rAAA), and determining preoperative risk factors that affect in-hospital mortality. One hundred one patients operated on to repair a rAAA within the last 10 years were included. The GAS and Hardman index were calculated for each patient separately. The relation between in-hospital mortality and the Hardman index and GAS was analyzed by means of the receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) curve. Univariate and multivariate methods of analyses were used to determine preoperative risk factors. Average age was 69  8, and in-hospital mortality rate was 51.5%. Analysis of the ROC curve showed that the Hardman index had an area under the curve (AUC) = 0.71 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.593-0.800, P = 0.0002) for predicting in-hospital mortality. The GAS had an AUC = 0.77 (95% CI, 0.680-0.851, P < 0.0001). The results of multivariate analysis revealed the presence of the following preoperative risk factors: age more than 63 years (odds ratio [OR], 4.4; 95% CI, 1.17-16.49, P = 0.028); loss of consciousness (OR, 9.33; 95% CI, 1.94-44.86, P = 0.005); creatinine higher than 1.7 mg/dL (OR, 5.52; 95% CI, 1.92-15.85, P = 0.001); and pH lower than 7.31 (OR, 3.77; 95% CI, 1.18-11.99, P = 0.024). In conclusion, the Hardman index and GAS have a significant correlation with in-hospital mortality rates. Nevertheless, a high score does not necessarily correspond with a definite mortality. This is why scoring systems could not be considered as the sole criterion for choosing patients for this study. Clinical experience was still the leading factor in deciding against or in favor of surgery.
A meta-analysis of the diagnostic test accuracy of MRA and MRI for the detection of glenoid labral injury.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) have gained increasing favour in the assessment of patients with suspected glenoid labral injuries. The purpose of this study was to determine the diagnostic accuracy of MRI or MRA in the detection of gleniod labral lesions.
Uromodulin and (1)-antitrypsin urinary peptide analysis to differentiate glomerular kidney diseases.	Glomerular kidney disease (GKD) is suspected in patients based on proteinuria, but its diagnosis relies primarily on renal biopsy. We used urine peptide profiling as a noninvasive means to link GKD-associated changes to each glomerular entity.
The application of traditional and geometric morphometric analyses for forensic quantification of sexual dimorphism: preliminary investigations in a Western Australian population.	A current limitation of forensic practice in Western Australia is a lack of contemporary population-specific standards for biological profiling; this directly relates to the unavailability of documented human skeletal collections. With rapidly advancing technology, however, it is now possible to acquire accurate skeletal measurements from 3D scans contained in medical databases. The purpose of the present study, therefore, is to explore the accuracy of using cranial form to predict sex in adult Australians. Both traditional and geometric morphometric methods are applied to data derived from 3D landmarks acquired in CT-reconstructed crania. The sample comprises multi-detector computed tomography scans of 200 adult individuals; following 3D volume rendering, 46 anatomical landmarks are acquired using OsiriX (version 3.9). Centroid size and shape (first 20 PCs of the Procrustes coordinates) and the inter-landmark (ILD) distances between all possible pairs of landmarks are then calculated. Sex classification effectiveness of the 3D multivariate descriptors of size and shape and selected ILD measurements are assessed and compared; robustness of findings is explored using resampling statistics. Cranial shape and size and the ILD measurements are sexually dimorphic and explain 3.2 to 54.3 % of sample variance; sex classification accuracy is 83.5-88.0 %. Sex estimation using 3D shape appears to have some advantages compared to approaches using size measurements. We have, however, identified a simple and biologically meaningful single non-traditional linear measurement (glabella-zygion) that classifies Western Australian individuals according to sex with a high degree of expected accuracy (87.5-88 %).
Generating one biometric feature from another: faces from fingerprints.	This study presents a new approach based on artificial neural networks for generating one biometric feature (faces) from another (only fingerprints). An automatic and intelligent system was designed and developed to analyze the relationships among fingerprints and faces and also to model and to improve the existence of the relationships. The new proposed system is the first study that generates all parts of the face including eyebrows, eyes, nose, mouth, ears and face border from only fingerprints. It is also unique and different from similar studies recently presented in the literature with some superior features. The parameter settings of the system were achieved with the help of Taguchi experimental design technique. The performance and accuracy of the system have been evaluated with 10-fold cross validation technique using qualitative evaluation metrics in addition to the expanded quantitative evaluation metrics. Consequently, the results were presented on the basis of the combination of these objective and subjective metrics for illustrating the qualitative properties of the proposed methods as well as a quantitative evaluation of their performances. Experimental results have shown that one biometric feature can be determined from another. These results have once more indicated that there is a strong relationship between fingerprints and faces.
The use of an early ACTH test to identify hypoadrenalism-related hypotension in low birth weight infants.	To investigate if in preterm newborns, an early adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) test can identify possible transient adrenal insufficiency (TAI), using significant hypotension as a clinical marker.
Urinary osteocalcin and serum pro-C-type natriuretic peptide predict linear catch-up growth in infants.	Preterm (PT) infants are at risk of growth failure despite advanced early care and nutrition. In addition to poor weight gain, slow postnatal linear growth also is associated with adverse neurological outcome. Markers distinguishing infants at risk for impaired catch-up growth are needed. The aim of this longitudinal study was to determine the extent to which postnatal levels of circulating cartilage (serum pro-C-type natriuretic peptide [S-proCNP]) and urinary bone metabolic markers (urinary osteocalcin [MidOC] and two forms of C-terminal cross-linked telopeptide of type I collagen [U--CTX-I and U--CTX-I]) predict catch-up growth in infancy in 67 PT and 58 full-term (FT) infants. PT infants were significantly shorter than FT infants during the first 6 months of life, but no statistically significant difference was found at the corrected age of 14 months (M14). At the age of 3 months (M3), S-ProCNP and U-MidOC levels, but not U--CTX-I and U--CTX-I levels, correlated positively with prospective growth velocity from M3 to M14 ( = 0.460, p < 0.001 and  = 0.710, p < 0.001, respectively). In predicting slow linear growth (growth velocity at the lowest quartile), the area under the S-ProCNP ROC curve was 0.662 and that of U-MidOC 0.891. Thus, U-MidOC, and to lesser extent S-ProCNP at M3 are predictors of catch-up growth in infancy.
Elevated urine levels of heparin-binding protein in children with urinary tract infection.	Urinary tract infection (UTI) is a common infection diagnosis in children, and efficient diagnosis and treatment are important to avoid serious complications. In this study we investigated whether urinary levels of neutrophil-derived heparin-binding protein (HBP) can be used as a marker of UTI in children. These results were compared to those of dipstick analysis, interleukin-6 (IL-6) analysis in urine, and bacterial culturing.
Lymph node count threshold for optimal pelvic lymph node staging in prostate cancer.	To test the relationship between the extent of pelvic lymph node dissection at radical prostatectomy and the rate of lymph node metastases, and to identify the ideal number of lymph nodes that should be removed to achieve an optimal staging.
The role of serum C-reactive protein in women with lower urinary tract symptoms.	Some lower urinary tract dysfunction (LUTD) subtypes may be associated with low-grade inflammation. This study aimed to investigate the role of serum C-reactive protein (CRP) levels in women with lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS).
Temporal analysis of heart rate variability as a predictor of post traumatic stress disorder in road traffic accidents survivors.	Road Traffic Accidents (RTA) are most probably the leading cause of post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in developed countries. The autonomic nervous system (ANS) disturbances, due to psychological trauma, are part of the pathophysiology of PTSD. The aim of the present study was to determine whether early heart rate variability (HRV) measurement, a biomarker of the ANS function, could act as a predictor of PTSD development after a RTA.
Integration of architectural and cytologic driven image algorithms for prostate adenocarcinoma identification.	The advent of digital slides offers new opportunities within the practice of pathology such as the use of image analysis techniques to facilitate computer aided diagnosis (CAD) solutions. Use of CAD holds promise to enable new levels of decision support and allow for additional layers of quality assurance and consistency in rendered diagnoses. However, the development and testing of prostate cancer CAD solutions requires a ground truth map of the cancer to enable the generation of receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curves. This requires a pathologist to annotate, or paint, each of the malignant glands in prostate cancer with an image editor software - a time consuming and exhaustive process. Recently, two CAD algorithms have been described: probabilistic pairwise Markov models (PPMM) and spatially-invariant vector quantization (SIVQ). Briefly, SIVQ operates as a highly sensitive and specific pattern matching algorithm, making it optimal for the identification of any epithelial morphology, whereas PPMM operates as a highly sensitive detector of malignant perturbations in glandular lumenal architecture.
Diagnostic and prognostic significance of human kallikrein 11 (KLK11) mRNA expression levels in patients with laryngeal cancer.	Human kallikrein 11 gene (KLK11) encodes a secreted serine protease. In view of its diagnostic and prognostic strength in many malignancies, we investigated the mRNA expression levels of KLK11 in laryngeal tissues in order to unveil its clinical usefulness in laryngeal cancer.
Morphology-based automatic seizure detector for intracerebral EEG recordings.	In this paper, a new seizure detection system aimed at assisting in a rapid review of prolonged intracerebral EEG recordings is described. It is based on quantifying the sharpness of the waveform, one of the most important electrographic EEG features utilized by experts for an accurate and reliable identification of a seizure. The waveform morphology is characterized by a measure of sharpness as defined by the slope of the half-waves. A train of abnormally sharp waves resulting from subsequent filtering are used to identify seizures. The method was optimized using 145 h of single-channel depth EEG from seven patients, and tested on another 158 h of single-channel depth EEG from another seven patients. Additionally, 725 h of depth EEG from 21 patients was utilized to assess the system performance in a multichannel configuration. Single-channel test data resulted in a sensitivity of 87% and a specificity of 71%. The multichannel test data reported a sensitivity of 81% and a specificity of 58.9%. The new system detected a wide range of seizure patterns that included rhythmic and nonrhythmic seizures of varying length, including those missed by the experts. We also compare the proposed system with a popular commercial system.
Levels of C-peptide, body mass index and age, and their usefulness in classification of diabetes in relation to autoimmunity, in adults with newly diagnosed diabetes in Kronoberg, Sweden.	C-peptide is a main outcome measure in treatment trials of diabetes. C-peptide also has a role in the classification of diabetes, which is often difficult in adults and this is also increasingly recognised in adolescents and elders.
Increased serum levels of ischemia-modified albumin and C-reactive protein in type 1 diabetes patients with ketoacidosis.	Ischemia-modified albumin (IMA) levels have been advocated as a biomarker for evaluating the oxidative stress status. No data are showed on the potential role of IMA in type 1 diabetes (T1D). We aimed to establish the correlation among serum levels of IMA, C-reactive protein (CRP), and diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) in patients with T1D. Fifty-seven patients with T1D, 27 patients with DKA, and 40 controls were enrolled. Serum IMA and CRP levels were measured and evaluated to distinguish from DKA. CRP and IMA levels were significantly elevated in patients with DKA at admission to the hospital compared to non-DKA and control subjects. CRP and IMA levels were higher in non-DKA patients than in controls. CRP, plasma glucose, and IMA levels were reduced after insulin treatment. Serum IMA levels were an independent risk marker for DKA (OR = 1.225, p = 0.002, 95 % CI: 1.076-1.394). Receiver operating characteristic curve analyses showed no difference in the areas under curve for serum IMA and CRP values. This study indicates that IMA and CRP levels were significantly correlated with DKA diagnosis. IMA can act as a biomarker that reflects the presence of DKA.
The influence of measurement location on reliability of quantitative nailfold videocapillaroscopy in patients with SSc.	Nailfold videocapillaroscopy is being increasingly used as a marker of SSc-related microvascular disease, including in response to treatment. However, it requires further validation. Our aim was to assess the inter-observer, intra-observer and test-retest variability of semi-automated measurement of capillary features as well as of a manual density measurement.
Prediction of extubation failure in medical intensive care unit patients.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate prediction factors for extubation failure (need for reintubation within 48 hours) in medical intensive care unit patients.
The age at death assessment in a multi-ethnic sample of pelvic bones using nature-inspired data mining methods.	Recently published studies showed that age assessment methods are population specific. Authors analyse the senescence changes in pubic symphysis and sacro-pelvic surface of a pelvic bone using data mining methods. The multi-ethnic data set consists of 956 adult individuals ranging from 19 to 100 years of age derived from 9 different populations with known age and sex. The results show that accurate and reliable age assessment is possible to three age classes (less than 30, 30-60, 60 and more). The study confirms that population specificity of the methods exists and the variable "sex" is not important in age classification.
Exercise testing to predict outcome in idiopathic versus associated pulmonary arterial hypertension.	We tested the ability of exercise testing to predict not only survival, but also time to clinical worsening (TTCW) in idiopathic versus associated pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). 136 patients with PAH (85 idiopathic and 51 with associated conditions) underwent cardiopulmonary exercise testing and a 6-min walk test. Death or transplantation, and clinical worsening events were recorded. 32 patients died and four had lung transplantation. In a univariate analysis, PAH patients survival was associated with oxygen uptake (V'(O(2))) at peak exercise and at the anaerobic threshold, ventilatory equivalent for carbon dioxide (minute ventilation (V'(E))/carbon dioxide production (V'(CO(2))) at the anaerobic threshold ((at))), V'(E)/V'(CO(2)) slope and distance walked. TTCW was associated with peak V'(O(2)) and V'(O(2),at), V'(E)/V'(CO(2),at), end-tidal carbon dioxide tension measured at the anaerobic threshold, peak oxygen pulse, increase in oxygen pulse and distance walked. In a multivariable analysis, distance walked and V'(E)/V'(CO(2),at) predicted survival, and only peak V'(O(2)) predicted TTCW. The receiver operating characteristic curve-derived cut-off values were 305 m for the 6-min walk distance, 54 for V'(E)/V'(CO(2),at) and 11.6 mLkg(-1)min for peak V'(O(2)). In the subgroup with associated PAH, no variable independently predicted either survival or clinical worsening. We conclude that several exercise variables predict survival and clinical stability in idiopathic PAH. Exercise variables are less accurate predictors of outcome in associated PAH.
Defining and detecting malaria epidemics in south-east Iran.	A lack of consensus on how to define malaria epidemics has impeded the evaluation of early detection systems. This study aimed to develop local definitions of malaria epidemics in a known malarious area of Iran, and to use that definition to evaluate the validity of several epidemic alert thresholds.
Relation of prolonged tissue Doppler imaging-derived atrial conduction time to atrial arrhythmia in adult patients with congenital heart disease.	Atrial arrhythmia (AA) is common in adult patients with congenital heart disease (CHD). To enable the prevention of AA or its complications, timely identification of adult patients with CHD at risk of AA is crucial. Long total atrial activation times have been related to AA. Tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) permits noninvasive evaluation of the total atrial conduction time (PA-TDI duration). The present study evaluated the association between the PA-TDI duration and the development of AA in adult patients with CHD. A total of 223 adult patients with CHD were followed up for the occurrence of AA after PA-TDI duration assessment. The PA-TDI duration was defined as the interval from the onset of the P wave on the electrocardiogram to the peak of the A' wave at the lateral atrial wall on TDI tracings. Among the various clinical and echocardiographic parameters, the association between the PA-TDI duration and AA occurrence was investigated. The median follow-up was 39 months (interquartile range 21 to 57). A PA-TDI duration of 126 ms was associated with AA during follow-up (log-rank, p <0.001). On multivariate analysis, a PA-TDI duration >126 ms (hazard ratio 2.25, 95% confidence interval 1.21 to 4.19) and history of AA (hazard ratio 4.89, 95% confidence interval 2.75 to 8.71) were independently associated with the occurrence of AA. In conclusion, PA-TDI duration and a history of AA were independently associated with the occurrence of AA in adult patients with CHD. The PA-TDI duration is a useful tool to identify patients with CHD at risk of AA during follow-up.
An angiographic predictor of pulmonary artery stenosis after the Norwood-Sano operation for hypoplastic left heart syndrome.	The objective of this study was to determine angiographic predictors of future pulmonary artery stenosis (PS) in patients with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) at the time of pre-stage 2 cardiac catheterization (PS2C). The Sano modification of the Norwood operation (NSO) for HLHS includes placement of a right ventricle-to-pulmonary artery (RV-PA) conduit. Branch PS is a recognized complication. Data from patients with HLHS who underwent NSO from 2005 to 2009 and who underwent PS2C were reviewed retrospectively. Nakata and McGoon indices were calculated in the traditional fashion, and modified Nakata and McGoon indices were calculated using the narrowest branch PA diameters. Thirty-three patients underwent NSO and 28 patients underwent PS2C. Mean follow-up was 35.8  7.5 months. Ten (36 %) patients had significant left branch PS, with two requiring balloon angioplasty and eight requiring stent placement, a median of 15.2 months after PS2C (interquartile range 1.2, 32.8). The modified Nakata index was predictive of future intervention for left PS (receiver operating characteristic curve area under the curve 0.811), with a cut-off of 135 mm(2)/m(2) and a sensitivity of 100 % and specificity of 72.2 %. A modified Nakata index <135 mm(2)/m(2) at PS2C predicts future need for intervention on left-branch PS in patients with HLHS after the NSO. Surgical pulmonary arterioplasty at the time of stage 2 surgical palliation may obviate the need for future interventions.
Association of follicle-stimulating hormone and sex hormone binding globulin with the metabolic syndrome in postmenopausal women.	We compared the association of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) with metabolic syndrome (MetS).
Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers of central catecholamine deficiency in Parkinson's disease and other synucleinopathies.	Central catecholamine deficiency characterizes -synucleinopathies such as Parkinson's disease. We hypothesized that cerebrospinal fluid levels of neuronal metabolites of catecholamines provide neurochemical biomarkers of these disorders. To test this hypothesis we measured cerebrospinal fluid levels of catechols including dopamine, norepinephrine and their main respective neuronal metabolites dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and dihydroxyphenylglycol in Parkinson's disease and two other synucleinopathies, multiple system atrophy and pure autonomic failure. Cerebrospinal fluid catechols were assayed in 146 subjects-108 synucleinopathy patients (34 Parkinson's disease, 54 multiple system atrophy, 20 pure autonomic failure) and 38 controls. In 14 patients cerebrospinal fluid was obtained before or within 2 years after the onset of parkinsonism. The Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy and pure autonomic failure groups all had lower cerebrospinal fluid dihydroxyphenylacetic acid [0.860.09 (SEM), 1.000.09, 1.320.12nmol/l] than controls (2.150.18nmol/l; P<0.0001; P<0.0001; P=0.0002). Dihydroxyphenylglycol was also lower in the three synucleinopathies (8.820.44, 7.750.42, 5.820.65nmol/l) than controls (11.00.62nmol/l; P=0.009, P<0.0001, P<0.0001). Dihydroxyphenylacetic acid was lower and dihydroxyphenylglycol higher in Parkinson's disease than in pure autonomic failure. Dihydroxyphenylacetic acid was 100% sensitive at 89% specificity in separating patients with recent onset of parkinsonism from controls but was of no value in differentiating Parkinson's disease from multiple system atrophy. Synucleinopathies feature cerebrospinal fluid neurochemical evidence for central dopamine and norepinephrine deficiency. Parkinson's disease and pure autonomic failure involve differential dopaminergic versus noradrenergic lesions. Cerebrospinal fluid dihydroxyphenylacetic acid seems to provide a sensitive means to identify even early Parkinson's disease.
Validity of intraoperative gross examination of myometrial invasion in patients with endometrial cancer: a meta-analysis.	The current recommended endometrial cancer surgical treatment is abdominal extrafascial total hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy followed by pelvic lymphadenectomy if >50% myometrial invasion is estimated by intraoperative gross examination (IGE). This meta-analysis aims to quantify evidence regarding the validity/predictive value of IGE staging compared with final histology.
Lessons from a one-year hospital-based surveillance of acute respiratory infections in Berlin- comparing case definitions to monitor influenza.	Surveillance of severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) in sentinel hospitals is recommended to estimate the burden of severe influenza-cases. Therefore, we monitored patients admitted with respiratory infections (RI) in 9 Berlin hospitals from 7.12.2009 to 12.12.2010 according to different case definitions (CD) and determined the proportion of cases with influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 (pH1N1). We compared the sensitivity and specificity of CD for capturing pandemic pH1N1 cases.
Urinary neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin and L-type fatty acid binding protein as diagnostic markers of early acute kidney injury after liver transplantation.	We examined the value of two potential novel urinary biomarkers, neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) and L-type fatty acid binding protein (L-FABP), in diagnosing acute kidney injury (AKI) in liver transplant recipients.
Noninvasive prediction of intra-amniotic infection and/or inflammation in preterm premature rupture of membranes.	To develop a model based on noninvasive parameters to predict the probability of intra-amniotic infection and/or inflammation (IAI) in women with preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROMs).
Effect of preoperative ejection fraction, left ventricular systolic dimension and hemoglobin level on survival after aortic valve surgery in patients with severe chronic aortic regurgitation.	Surgical indications in patients with severe chronic aortic regurgitation (AR) and normal left ventricular (LV) ejection fractions (EF) remain to be established. The aim of this study was to identify prognostic indicators after surgery in patients with severe AR and normal LV systolic function. Preoperative clinical and echocardiographic characteristics were evaluated in 284 consecutive patients with chronic severe AR who underwent aortic valve surgery. Of these patients, 169 had normal (50%) and 115 had depressed (<50%) preoperative LV EFs. All-cause mortality was observed for a median of 39.9 months. Of 284 patients, 7 (4.4%) with normal LV EFs and 15 (12.0%) with depressed LV EFs died during follow-up after aortic valve surgery (p = 0.017). In patients with normal EFs, multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that large LV end-systolic dimension and low plasma hemoglobin level were independent predictors of postsurgical mortality. Receiver-operating characteristic analysis showed that LV end-systolic dimension 45 mm and hemoglobin level <13.4 g/dl were the best cut-off values for postoperative mortality. In conclusion, preoperative LV end-systolic dimension and hemoglobin level are independent prognostic factors of survival after aortic valve surgery in patients with chronic severe AR and normal LV EFs.
Usefulness of cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging of the superficial femoral artery for screening patients with diabetes mellitus for atherosclerosis.	Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) of the superficial femoral artery (SFA) allows direct and noninvasive visualization of atherosclerotic plaque burden. We examined atherosclerosis in 3 groups of patients without history or symptoms of peripheral arterial disease with varying expected burdens: those with diabetes mellitus (DM) and known coronary artery disease (CAD) (n = 24), those with DM and a high prevalence of CAD risk factors (n = 20), and controls of similar age without DM or CAD and few CAD risk factors (n = 15). We also assessed the diagnostic accuracy of this technique to differentiate among these 3 groups. T1-weighted spin-echocardiographic images were used to measure mean wall thickness (WT) and total wall volume indexed to total vessel volume. Diagnostic accuracy was assessed by area under receiver operating characteristics curve analysis. Patients with DM plus risk factors and DM plus CAD had higher mean WT (1.28 and 1.37 mm) and mean indexed wall volume (0.53 and 0.56) compared to controls (mean WT 1.16 mm and mean indexed wall volume 0.45; p <0.010 for all comparisons). Mean WT and indexed wall volume showed good diagnostic accuracy in discriminating controls from those with DM plus CAD (areas under curve 0.85 and 0.87, respectively, p <0.001), whereas only indexed wall volume discriminated DM plus risk factors from controls (area under curve 0.82, p <0.001). Neither could discriminate between DM plus risk factors and DM plus CAD. In conclusion, patients with DM plus risk factors and DM plus CAD had significantly greater atherosclerotic burden in the SFA on CMR imaging than controls of similar age, with good diagnostic accuracy in differentiating these groups. The high reproducibility and reliability of CMR of the SFA may facilitate improved assessment of atherosclerosis prevalence and progression/regression in studies of novel therapies.
Delta changes for optimizing clinical specificity and 60-day risk of adverse events in patients presenting with symptoms suggestive of acute coronary syndrome utilizing the ADVIA Centaur TnI-Ultra assay.	We determined diagnostic accuracy and risk stratification using delta changes for the cardiac troponin I (cTnI) Centaur Ultra assay for ruling out acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and for risk prediction of adverse events in patients with symptoms of acute coronary syndrome.
Transcutaneous bilirubin measurement: comparison of Respironics BiliCheck and JM-103 in a normal newborn population.	To compare the accuracy of BiliCheck (Respironics, Marietta, GA) and Konica-Minolta Air Shield JM-103 (Drager Medical Inc, Telford, PA) to evaluate total serum bilirubin (TSB).
Validation of the children's depression rating scale- revised for adolescents in primary-care pediatric use in India.	Adolescent depression needs to be identified and treated in the primary care settings. There is no clinician-rated measure validated in India for identifying depression among adolescents.
Increased serum levels of HSP27 as a marker for incipient chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in young smokers.	Although chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is amongst the leading causes of morbidity and mortality, no biomarkers for its early detection are known. We have recently demonstrated that COPD is accompanied by elevated serum heat shock protein (HSP) 27 levels as compared to a control population.
Tissue Doppler imaging-derived myocardial acceleration during isovolumetric contraction predicts pulmonary capillary wedge pressure in patients with reduced ejection fraction.	Tissue Doppler imaging-obtained isovolumetric myocardial acceleration (IVA) is load independent, reportedly predicts systolic functions, and correlates with exercise capacity in patients with reduced ejection fraction (EF). We hypothesized that IVA correlates with the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) in patients with reduced EF.
Functional aspects of distal oesophageal spasm: the role of onset velocity and contraction amplitude on bolus transit.	Distal oesophageal spasm is a rare and under-investigated motility abnormality. Recent studies indicate effective bolus transit in varying percentages of distal oesophageal spasm patients.
Influence of attenuation correction on transient left ventricular dilation in dual isotope myocardial perfusion imaging in patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease.	The aim of this study was to assess the effect of attenuation correction (AC) on left ventricular (LV) volumes and LV transient ischemic dilatation (TID) during dual-isotope single-photon emission computer tomographic (SPECT) myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI). Ninety-six patients (mean age 58  11 years, 15% women, 38 patients completed exercise and 58 dipyridamole pharmacologic stress tests) assessed for known or suspected coronary artery disease underwent dual-isotope thallium-201 rest and technetium-99m sestamibi stress SPECT MPI with computed tomography-based AC. The TID ratio was calculated separately for non-AC and AC SPECT MPI studies as the ratio of the LV endocardial volume at stress divided by LV endocardial volume at rest. The mean and range of the gated LV ejection fraction during exercise and pharmacologic stress was 54  12% (29% to 80%) and 58  12% (27% to 80%), respectively. In the exercise stress group, the same mean LV endocardial volumes in non-AC and AC stress (76.4  30 and 76.5  28) and rest (66.3  26 and 66.4  24) studies were found (p = 0.90). There was no statistical difference between the mean exercise TID ratio in non-AC and AC studies (1.27 vs 1.31, respectively, p = 0.10). The same mean LV endocardial volumes in non-AC and AC in pharmacologic stress (79.9  42 and 80  41) and rest (71.4  41 and 72.3  37), respectively, were found (p = 0.50). There was no statistical difference between the mean dipyridamole TID ratio in non-AC and AC studies (1.20 vs 1.17, respectively, p = 0.10). In conclusion, LV volumes and TID indexes obtained on SPECT MPI with exercise or pharmacologic stress using dipyridamole are not affected by AC.
A class of Monte-Carlo-based statistical algorithms for efficient detection of repolarization alternans.	Cardiac repolarization alternans is an electrophysiologic condition identified by a beat-to-beat fluctuation in action potential waveform. It has been mechanistically linked to instances of T-wave alternans, a clinically defined ECG alternation in T-wave morphology, and associated with the onset of cardiac reentry and sudden cardiac death. Many alternans detection algorithms have been proposed in the past, but the majority have been designed specifically for use with T-wave alternans. Action potential duration (APD) signals obtained from experiments (especially those derived from optical mapping) possess unique characteristics, which requires the development and use of a more appropriate alternans detection method. In this paper, we present a new class of algorithms, based on the Monte Carlo method, for the detection and quantitative measurement of alternans. Specifically, we derive a set of algorithms (one an analytical and more efficient version of the other) and compare its performance with the standard spectral method and the generalized likelihood ratio test algorithm using synthetic APD sequences and optical mapping data obtained from an alternans control experiment. We demonstrate the benefits of the new algorithm in the presence of Gaussian and Laplacian noise and frame-shift errors. The proposed algorithms are well suited for experimental applications, and furthermore, have low complexity and are implementable using fixed-point arithmetic, enabling potential use with implantable cardiac devices.
A simple scoring algorithm predicting vascular infections in adults with nontyphoid Salmonella bacteremia.	Nontyphoid Salmonella (NTS) can cause fatal vascular infections. This study aims to establish a predictive scoring algorithm to identify adults aged  50 years with NTS bacteremia who are at risk for vascular infections.
Cardioembolic stroke: dual-energy cardiac CT for differentiation of left atrial appendage thrombus and circulatory stasis.	To assess the diagnostic performance of dual-energy cardiac computed tomography (CT) in the detection of left atrial appendage (LAA) thrombi and differentiation between thrombus and circulatory stasis in patients with stroke, by using transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) as the reference standard.
Thoracoscore fails to predict complications following elective lung resection.	The Thoracoscore mortality risk model has been incorporated into the British Thoracic Society guidelines on the radical management of patients with lung cancer. The discriminative and predictive ability to predict mortality and post-operative pulmonary complications (PPCs) in this group of patients is uncertain. A prospective observational study was carried out on all patients following lung resection via thoracotomy in a regional thoracic centre over 42 months. 128 out of 703 subjects developed a PPC. 16 (2%) patients died in hospital. In a logistic regression analysis the Thoracoscore was not a significant predictor of mortality (OR 1.07, 95% CI 0.99-1.17; p=0.11) but was a significant predictor of PPCs (OR 1.08, 95% CI 1.03-1.13; p=0.002). However, the area under the receiver operator characteristic curve for the Thoracoscore was 0.68 (95% CI 0.56-0.80) for predicting mortality and 0.64 (95% CI 0.59-0.69) for PPCs, indicating limited discriminative ability. In a logistic regression analysis, another risk model, the European Society Objective Score, was predictive of mortality (OR 1.43, 95% CI 1.11-1.83; p=0.006) and PPCs (OR 1.48, 95% CI 1.30-1.68; p<0.0001). Therefore, Thoracoscore may have poor discriminative and predictive ability for mortality and PPCs following elective lung resection.
Left atrial deformation analysis by speckle tracking echocardiography for prediction of cardiovascular outcomes.	The incremental value of left atrial (LA) deformation analysis by speckle tracking echocardiography compared with LA volume or LA ejection fraction as a cardiovascular risk marker has not been evaluated prospectively. We sought to compare LA function by speckle tracking echocardiography to other conventional LA parameters for prediction of adverse cardiovascular outcomes. This prospective study included 312 adults (mean age 71  6 years, 56% men) in sinus rhythm who were followed for development of first atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, stroke, transient ischemic attack, myocardial infarction, coronary revascularization, and cardiovascular death. Global peak atrial longitudinal strain (PALS) by speckle tracking echocardiography was measured in all subjects by averaging all atrial segments. Left atrium was assessed with biplane LA volume, LA ejection fraction, 4-chamber LA area, and M-mode dimension. Of 312 subjects at baseline, 43 had 61 new events during a mean follow-up of 3.1  1.4 years. All LA parameters, traditional parameters, and parameters derived by speckle tracking echocardiography were independently predictive of combined outcomes (p <0.0001 for all comparisons). Overall performance for prediction of cardiovascular events was greatest for global PALS (area under receiver operator characteristic curve: global PALS 0.83, indexed LA volume 0.71, LA ejection fraction 0.69, LA area 0.64, LA diameter 0.59). A graded association between degree of LA enlargement and risk of cardiovascular events was evident only for global PALS and indexed LA volume. In conclusion, global PALS is a strong and independent predictor of cardiovascular events and appears to be superior to conventional parameters of LA analysis.
Characterization of the pancreas in vivo using EUS spectrum analysis with electronic array echoendoscopes.	Spectral analysis of the radiofrequency (RF) signals that underlie grayscale EUS images has been used to provide quantitative, objective information about tissue histology.
Inter-examiner reliability in meibomian gland dysfunction assessment.	We evaluated inter-examiner reliability in grading of clinical variables associated with meibomian gland dysfunction (MGD) in real-time examination versus a graded digital image.
Agreement of retinal nerve fiber layer color codes between Stratus and Cirrus OCT according to glaucoma severity.	We assessed the agreement of retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) color codes between Stratus and Cirrus optical coherence tomography (OCT) according to the glaucoma severity.
A prospective study on employment outcome 3 years after moderate to severe traumatic brain injury.	To evaluate the employment outcome in patients with moderate to severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) and to identify which patients are at risk of unemployment 3 years after injury.
Abnormal spatial QRS-T angle, a marker of ventricular repolarisation, predicts serious ventricular arrhythmia in systemic sclerosis.	Cardiac involvement may be under-diagnosed in asymptomatic patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc). Standard electrocardiography-derived spatial QRS-T angle (spQRS-Ta) is an established marker of ventricular repolarisation heterogeneity, and a strong independent predictor of cardiac morbidity and mortality, including sudden death, in the general population. We examined whether spQRS-Ta is abnormal in asymptomatic SSc patients and assessed its predictive value for possibly concurrent, serious ventricular arrhythmia.
Double jeopardy: the influence of excessive daytime sleepiness and impaired cognition on health-related quality of life in adults with heart failure.	To determine how excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) and impaired cognition contribute to health-related quality of life (HRQL) in heart failure (HF).
Serological antibodies against LY6K as a diagnostic biomarker in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.	To evaluate the diagnostic values of autoantibodies against lymphocyte antigen 6 complex locus K (LY6K) in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).
Elevated homocysteine and asymmetric dimethyl arginine levels in pulmonary hypertension associated with congenital heart disease.	Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among patients with congenital heart disease (CHD). This study was designed to determine biomarker levels in patients with PAH associated with CHD (PAH-CHD) and CHD patients without PAH and to investigate the relationship of these potential biomarkers with hemodynamic findings. In this prospective single-center study, patients with CHD were analyzed according to the presence or absence of PAH and compared with healthy control subjects. Cardiac catheterization and echocardiographs were performed. Plasma homocysteine, asymmetric dimethyl arginine (ADMA), and nitric oxide (NO) levels were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Homocysteine and ADMA levels were higher in the PAH-CHD group (n = 30) than among CHD patients with left-to-right shunting but no PAH (n = 20; P < 0.001) and healthy control subjects (n = 20; P < 0.001). There was no difference in NO levels. Cyanotic PAH-CHD patients had significantly higher homocysteine than acyanotic patients in the same group. No correlation was shown between echocardiographic/hemodynamic parameters and homocysteine, ADMA, and NO levels. Homocysteine and ADMA levels are increased in patients with PAH-CHD. These parameters have the potential to be used as biomarkers in the diagnosis and follow-up evaluation of patients with PAH-CHD. However, large, multicentered prospective studies are required to facilitate routine use of these biologic markers in the clinical setting.
Prospective validation of the vasoactive-inotropic score and correlation to short-term outcomes in neonates and infants after cardiothoracic surgery.	Prospective validation of the vasoactive-inotropic score (VIS) and inotrope score (IS) in infants after cardiovascular surgery.
Is serum cystatin C a better marker than serum creatinine for monitoring renal function in pediatric intensive care unit?	In critically ill patients, mild to moderate reductions in glomerular filtration rate are not instantly followed by parallel changes in serum creatinine (SCr). The aim of this study was to identify a value of serum cystatin C (cys-C) level as a marker for monitoring renal function in critically ill pediatric patients. Creatinine clearance was used to estimate glomeruler filtration rate (eGFR). The correlation between the inverse of serum cys-C and eGFR (r=-0.70, p<0.0001) was better than the correlation between the inverse of SCr and eGFR (r=-0.27, p=0.008). Serum cys-C was found to be superior to SCr to predict renal impairment (area under the curve for cys-C, 0.932 and for SCr, 0.658). It can be concluded that cys-C is superior to SCr for the detection of renal impairment in critically ill children.
Point-of-care -hydroxybutyrate measurement for the diagnosis of feline diabetic ketoacidaemia.	To evaluate accuracy and precision of a hand-held ketone meter measuring -hydroxybutyrate and to determine its diagnostic performance to rule out ketoacidaemia in diabetic cats.
Malignant pleural disease: diagnosis by using diffusion-weighted and dynamic contrast-enhanced MR imaging--initial experience.	To investigate the use of diffusion-weighted (DW) imaging for differentiating benign lesions from malignant pleural disease (MPD) and to retrospectively assess dynamic contrast material-enhanced (DCE) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging acquisitions to find out whether combining these measurements with DW imaging could improve the diagnostic value of DW imaging.
Detection and characterization of small focal hepatic lesions (2.5 cm in diameter): a comparison of diffusion-weighted images before and after administration of gadoxetic acid disodium at 3.0T.	As diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) is routinely incorporated into the standard clinical protocol, it is clinically relevant to determine whether DWI after gadoxetic acid is comparable to pre-contrast DWI, with regard to the detection and characterization of focal liver lesions.
Di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate and autism spectrum disorders.	ASDs (autism spectrum disorders) are a complex group of neurodevelopment disorders, still poorly understood, steadily rising in frequency and treatment refractory. Extensive research has been so far unable to explain the aetiology of this condition, whereas a growing body of evidence suggests the involvement of environmental factors. Phthalates, given their extensive use and their persistence, are ubiquitous environmental contaminants. They are EDs (endocrine disruptors) suspected to interfere with neurodevelopment. Therefore they represent interesting candidate risk factors for ASD pathogenesis. The aim of this study was to evaluate the levels of the primary and secondary metabolites of DEHP [di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate] in children with ASD. A total of 48 children with ASD (male: 36, female: 12; mean age: 11  5 years) and age- and sex-comparable 45 HCs (healthy controls; male: 25, female: 20; mean age: 12  5 years) were enrolled. A diagnostic methodology, based on the determination of urinary concentrations of DEHP metabolites by HPLC-ESI-MS (HPLC electrospray ionization MS), was applied to urine spot samples. MEHP [mono-(2-ethylhexenyl) 1,2-benzenedicarboxylate], 6-OH-MEHP [mono-(2-ethyl-6-hydroxyhexyl) 1,2-benzenedicarboxylate], 5-OH-MEHP [mono-(2-ethyl-5-hydroxyhexyl) 1,2-benzenedicarboxylate] and 5-oxo-MEHP [mono-(2-ethyl-5-oxohexyl) 1,2-benzenedicarboxylate] were measured and compared with unequivocally characterized, pure synthetic compounds (>98%) taken as standard. In ASD patients, significant increase in 5-OH-MEHP (52.1%, median 0.18) and 5-oxo-MEHP (46.0%, median 0.096) urinary concentrations were detected, with a significant positive correlation between 5-OH-MEHP and 5-oxo-MEHP (rs = 0.668, P<0.0001). The fully oxidized form 5-oxo-MEHP showed 91.1% specificity in identifying patients with ASDs. Our findings demonstrate for the first time an association between phthalates exposure and ASDs, thus suggesting a previously unrecognized role for these ubiquitous environmental contaminants in the pathogenesis of autism.
Rapid point-of-care NT-proBNP optimal cut-off point for heart failure diagnosis in primary care.	Measurement of natriuretic peptides may be recommended prior to echocardiography in patients with suspected heart failure. Cut-off point for heart failure diagnosis in primary care is not well established. We aimed to assess the optimal diagnostic cut-off value of N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide on a community population attended in primary care.
Enhanced circulating soluble LR11 in patients with diabetic retinopathy.	To investigate the relationship of circulating levels of soluble form of LR11 (sLR11; also called SorLA or SORL1), with the progression of proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Bone morphogenetic protein-2 will be a novel biochemical marker in urinary tract infections and stone formation.	To investigate the role of bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) in patients with urinary tract infection (UTI) and renal stone in relation to Tamm-Horsfall protein (THP) and osteopontin (OPN).
Amino-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide as a predictor of outcome in patients admitted to intensive care. A prospective observational study.	Amino-terminal pro-brain-type natriuretic peptide is known to predict outcome in patients with heart failure, but its role in an intensive care setting is not yet fully established.
Diagnostic utility and correlation of tumor markers in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid of children with intracranial germ cell tumors.	In order to predict whether tumor markers assist in the histopathologic diagnosis of germ cell tumors (GCTs), we analyzed the correlation of beta human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) in serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples at baseline and subsequent follow-up examinations.
Prostate cancer: feasibility and preliminary experience of a diffusional kurtosis model for detection and assessment of aggressiveness of peripheral zone cancer.	To assess the feasibility of diffusional kurtosis (DK) imaging for distinguishing benign from malignant regions, as well as low- from high-grade malignant regions, within the peripheral zone (PZ) of the prostate in comparison with standard diffusion-weighted (DW) imaging.
Procalcitonin in early onset ventilator-associated pneumonia.	Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) is a significant problem in intensive care and there exists great demand for a suitable biomarker. Procalcitonin (PCT) has been proposed as a candidate marker.
Plasma level of lipopolysaccharide-binding protein is indicative of acute graft-versus-host disease following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.	Acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) is the major cause of non-relapse mortality following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. To date, there are no consensus specific plasma biomarkers for aGVHD. We recently identified several candidates differentially expressed in aGVHD patients. Here, we have validated one such candidate: lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP). We detected plasma LBP level by ELISA in 73 patients and performed correlation analysis with the progression and severity of aGVHD. We found that plasma LBP level increased during the period of aGVHD and decreased markedly as aGVHD was resolved. LBP level in patients with moderate aGVHD (25-50 % skin rash area of grade 1 and grade 2) was higher than in patients with no, little (skin rash area <25 % of grade 1), or severe aGVHD (grade 3-4). Higher LBP level indicated higher probability of aGVHD. Multivariate analysis showed that LBP level above 15000 ng/ml was significantly associated with an increased risk of aGVHD (HR 2.43; 95 % CI 1.29-4.58; P = 0.006). If LBP level exceeded 15000 ng/ml at d7 and d14 after HSCT, the subsequent probability of aGVHD increased markedly, especially at the time point of d14. There was no correlation between LBP level and the site of aGVHD. In conclusion, our study demonstrated that an elevated LBP level of >15000 ng/ml may serve as a biomarker for the prediction and monitoring of aGVHD.
Early serum galactomannan trend as a predictor of outcome of invasive aspergillosis.	The monitoring and prediction of treatment responses to invasive aspergillosis (IA) are difficult. We determined whether serum galactomannan index (GMI) trends early in the course of disease may be useful in predicting eventual clinical outcomes. For the subjects recruited into the multicenter Global Aspergillosis Study, serial GMIs were measured at baseline and at weeks 1, 2, and 4 following antifungal treatment. Clinical response and survival at 12 weeks were the outcome measures. GMI trends were analyzed by using the generalized estimation equation approach. GMI cutoffs were evaluated by using receiver-operating curve analyses incorporating pre- and posttest probabilities. Of the 202 study patients diagnosed with IA, 71 (35.1%) had a baseline GMI of  0.5. Week 1 GMI was significantly lower for the eventual responders to treatment at week 12 than for the nonresponders (GMIs of 0.62  0.12 and 1.15  0.22, respectively; P = 0.035). A GMI reduction of >35% between baseline and week 1 predicted a probability of a satisfactory clinical response. For IA patients with pretreatment GMIs of <0.5 (n = 131; 64.9%), GMI ought to remain low during treatment, and a rising absolute GMI to >0.5 at week 2 despite antifungal treatment heralded a poor clinical outcome. Here, every 0.1-unit increase in the GMI between baseline and week 2 increased the likelihood of an unsatisfactory clinical response by 21.6% (P = 0.018). In summary, clinical outcomes may be anticipated by charting early GMI trends during the first 2 weeks of antifungal therapy. These findings have significant implications for the management of IA.
Discriminative ability of LDL-cholesterol to identify patients with familial hypercholesterolemia: a cross-sectional study in 26,406 individuals tested for genetic FH.	Screening for familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) within affected families is often based on cutoff values for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). However, the diagnostic accuracy of LDL-C levels is influenced by the magnitude of the LDL-C overlap between FH patients and unaffected relatives. The purpose of the current study was to assess to what extent this overlap is influenced by the severity of specific FH mutations.
ABCD(2) as a screening tool for cerebral infarction on stroke MRI?	The newly proposed transient ischemic attack (TIA) definition demands for MRI exclusion of infarction. Due to limited resources other tools than MRI predicting tissue infarction would be valuable. We hypothesized that ABCD(2) risk score is a valid screening tool for diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) lesions.
Plasma hTERT mRNA discriminates between clinically localized and locally advanced disease and is a predictor of recurrence in prostate cancer patients.	Since the introduction of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing, new prostate cancer (PCa) patients are diagnosed earlier and most have localized and locally advanced disease. Current diagnosis methods lack specificity and sensitivity, leading to overdiagnosis and overtreatment of patients with low-risk organ-confined localized disease. Therefore, new non-invasive molecular tools are needed to discriminate between localized and locally advanced disease.
Increased inflammatory response and imbalance in blood and urinary oxidant-antioxidant status in South Indian women with gestational hypertension and preeclampsia.	The objective of this study is to assess the association of blood and urinary oxidative stress parameters and inflammatory markers in women with gestational hypertension and preeclampsia.
Multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging of the prostate can improve the predictive value of the urinary prostate cancer antigen 3 test in patients with elevated prostate-specific antigen levels and a previous negative biopsy.	Study Type--Clinical (prospective trial) Level of Evidence 2b. What's known on the subject? and What does the study add? In clinical practice, we know that it is necessary to identify new biomarkers that can better detect prostate cancer (PC), at the same time as reducing the number of unnecessary biopsies. Recently, studies have suggested that the most relevant clinical scenario in which the prostate cancer antigen 3 (PCA3) score could be used comprises patients with a previous negative prostate biopsy and persistently elevated PSA levels. At the same time, although multiparametric MRI is not currently used as a first approach for diagnosing PC, it can be useful for directing targeted biopsies, especially in those patients with elevated PSA levels and a previous negative TRUS-guided biopsy. Considering all of these aspects, the present study aimed to evaluate the role of multiparametric MRI as an additional diagnostic tool for improving the accuracy of the urinary PCA3 test in patients with increased PSA levels and a previous negative prostate biopsy. Our hypothesis is that the potential value of the PCA3 test as a biomarker for PC diagnosis could be improved by the use of multiparametric MRI in directing prostate biopsy. In the present study, we show that, in cases with a previous negative biopsy and persistently elevated PSA levels submitted to multiparametric MRI to direct biopsies, the sensitivity of the PCA3 test significantly improved (79% vs 68%). However, further larger randomized studies on this combination using a new biomarker and a new imaging modality for PC diagnosis are expected.
Rapid response team-triggered procalcitonin measurement predicts infectious intensive care unit transfers*.	Determine if procalcitonin at the time of initial rapid response team activation identifies patients who are likely to need subsequent intensive care unit transfer.
Interfrontal angle for characterization of trigonocephaly: part 1:  development and validation of a tool for diagnosis of metopic synostosis.	Surgical intervention for metopic synostosis is largely based on a subjective impression of the presence and severity of trigonocephaly. Several objective methods have been proposed to characterize phenotypic severity, but these methods are imprecise or impractical. The purpose of this investigation was to develop a practical and reliable quantitative method to assess trigonocephaly using computed tomographic (CT) data.
A clinical prediction model to assess the risk of operative delivery.	To predict instrumental vaginal delivery or caesarean section for suspected fetal distress or failure to progress.
Diagnostic performance of dual-energy CT for the detection of traumatic bone marrow lesions in the ankle: comparison with MR imaging.	To evaluate prospectively the performance of noncalcium images reconstructed from dual-energy (DE) computed tomography (CT) for the diagnosis of bone marrow lesions in patients with acute ankle joint trauma in comparison with magnetic resonance (MR) images.
Virtual nonenhanced dual-energy CT urography with tin-filter technology: determinants of detection of urinary calculi in the renal collecting system.	To retrospectively determine which features of urinary calculi are associated with their detection after virtual elimination of contrast medium at dual-energy computed tomographic (CT) urography by using a novel tin filter.
DAD-6: A 6-ltem version of the Disability Assessment for Dementia scale which may differentiate Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment from controls.	The need to detect early changes in instrumental activities of daily life led us to modify the Disability Assessment for Dementia Scale (DAD) by focusing on executive components of 6 instrumental items (DAD-6).
Ultrasound assessment of lung aeration loss during a successful weaning trial predicts postextubation distress*.	Postextubation distress after a successful spontaneous breathing trial is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Predicting postextubation distress is therefore a major issue in critically ill patients. To assess whether lung derecruitment during spontaneous breathing trial assessed by lung ultrasound is predictive of postextubation distress.
Derivation of a cardiac arrest prediction model using ward vital signs*.	Rapid response team activation criteria were created using expert opinion and have demonstrated variable accuracy in previous studies. We developed a cardiac arrest risk triage score to predict cardiac arrest and compared it to the Modified Early Warning Score, a commonly cited rapid response team activation criterion.
Diagnostic performance of serum interleukin-6 and interleukin-10 levels and clinical predictors in children with rotavirus and norovirus gastroenteritis.	Rotavirus and norovirus are the two most common causes of acute viral gastroenteritis in children. This study aimed to explore the association of serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-10 (IL-10) levels and the clinical features in children with rotavirus and norovirus gastroenteritis.
White matter imaging contributes to the multimodal diagnosis of frontotemporal lobar degeneration.	To evaluate the distribution of white matter (WM) disease in frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and Alzheimer disease (AD) and to evaluate the relative usefulness of WM and gray matter (GM) for distinguishing these conditions in vivo.
Analysis of incidental focal hypermetabolic uptake in the breast as detected by 18F-FDG PET/CT: clinical significance and differential diagnosis.	With the widespread use of PET/CT, incidental hypermetabolic foci unrelated to the known malignancy have been described with increasing frequency.
Automatic segmentation of cell nuclei in Feulgen-stained histological sections of prostate cancer and quantitative evaluation of segmentation results.	Digital image analysis of cell nuclei is useful to obtain quantitative information for the diagnosis and prognosis of cancer. However, the lack of a reliable automatic nuclear segmentation is a limiting factor for high-throughput nuclear image analysis. We have developed a method for automatic segmentation of nuclei in Feulgen-stained histological sections of prostate cancer. A local adaptive thresholding with an object perimeter gradient verification step detected the nuclei and was combined with an active contour model that featured an optimized initialization and worked within a restricted region to improve convergence of the segmentation of each nucleus. The method was tested on 30 randomly selected image frames from three cases, comparing the results from the automatic algorithm to a manual delineation of 924 nuclei. The automatic method segmented a few more nuclei compared to the manual method, and about 73% of the manually segmented nuclei were also segmented by the automatic method. For each nucleus segmented both manually and automatically, the accuracy (i.e., agreement with manual delineation) was estimated. The mean segmentation sensitivity/specificity were 95%/96%. The results from the automatic method were not significantly different from the ground truth provided by manual segmentation. This opens the possibility for large-scale nuclear analysis based on automatic segmentation of nuclei in Feulgen-stained histological sections.
A comparison of several methods of macular hole measurement using optical coherence tomography, and their value in predicting anatomical and visual outcomes.	To compare several methods of macular hole measurement using optical coherence tomography (OCT), and to assess their predictive capability against anatomical and visual outcomes in a single cohort of patients.
Combined evaluation of CK5/6, ER, p63, and MUC3 for distinguishing breast intraductal papilloma from ductal carcinoma in situ.	The differentiation of intraductal papilloma (IDP) in the breast from ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) is sometimes difficult. Fifty papillary lesions (25 DCIS and 25 IDP) were immunohistochemically examined using a panel of antibodies, including CK5/6, ER, p63, Ki-67, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, neuron specific enolase, CD56, MUC1, MUC3, CD44, p21, p27, and p53. The immunohistochemical staining pattern of each antibody was evaluated using the Allred scoring system. Then, the area under curve (AUC) for each antibody was computed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. DCIS typically showed high scores for ER and MUC3 reactivity compared with IDP, and the AUC for ER and MUC3 were 0.941 and 0.908, respectively. In contrast, IDP showed high scores for CK5/6 and p63 reactivity compared with DCIS, and the AUC for CK5/6 and p63 were 1.00 and 0.954, respectively. We devised a 'Differential Index' (DI) using the following formula: [S(ER) + S(MUC3)]/[S(CK5/6) + S(p63) + 1]. The distributions of the DI for IDP and DCIS did not overlap when the cutoff value was placed arbitrarily at DI = 1.0. From these results, it is concluded that a panel of four CK5/6, ER, p63, and MUC3 antibodies provide valuable information for differentiating IDP from DCIS.
Explanatory value of the Ability Index as assessed by cardiologists and patients with congenital heart disease.	The Ability Index was developed to classify patients with congenital heart disease into four functional classes. Functional class is typically determined by the cardiologist, based on data from a clinical interview. The validity of the Ability Index as assessed by the patient has never been scrutinized.
Clinical significance of determining urinary podocalyxin level in children with primary nephrotic syndrome]	To study the clinical significance of urinary podocyte marker protein podocalyxin (PCX) in the diagnosis of primary nephrotic syndrome (PNS) in children and the evaluation of disease severity.
Red cell distribution width and risk of peripheral artery disease: analysis of National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 1999-2004.	Red cell distribution width (RDW) is an independent predictor of the 10-year estimated risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) events. However, RDW's association with peripheral artery disease (PAD) - a CHD risk equivalent - has not been evaluated to date. In this cross-sectional study, we examined 6950 participants of the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, 1999-2004. PAD was defined as an ankle-brachial index below 0.9 (n = 618). RDW was divided into quartiles (Q) (Q1:  12.2; Q2: 12.3-12.5; Q3: 12.6-13.0; Q4:  13.1) and PAD risk was compared across these quartiles using adjusted multivariate logistic regression. A graded increase in prevalent PAD with increasing RDW quartiles was observed (4.2% in Q1 vs 13.9% in Q4; test of trend p < 0.001). Risk of PAD was significantly higher (odds ratio (OR) 1.19, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.06-1.34; p = 0.003) after adjusting for age, sex, race, body mass index, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, smoking, estimated glomerular filtration rate, C-reactive protein, hemoglobin, mean corpuscular volume, and nutritional factors (folate, iron and vitamin B(12)) deficiencies with each unit (0.1) increase in RDW. Upon receiver-operating characteristics analysis, the predictive accuracy of the American College of Cardiology / American Heart Association (ACC/AHA)-defined PAD screening criteria (for a high-risk population) was 0.657 at best, but improved significantly (0.727) after addition of RDW (p < 0.0001). In conclusion, higher levels of RDW are independently associated with a higher risk of PAD and can significantly improve the risk prediction beyond that estimated by ACC/AHA-defined PAD screening criteria.
Can Rowland Universal Dementia Assessment Scale (RUDAS) replace Mini-mental State Examination (MMSE) for dementia screening in a Thai geriatric outpatient setting?	Mini-mental-State Examination (MMSE) is a widely used tool for dementia screening. However, several limitations are found and the Rowland Universal Dementia Assessment Scale (RUDAS) appears to be an alternative test. The objective in this study was to compare the performance of MMSE-Thai 2002 and RUDAS-Thai for dementia screening, and to determine their performances and identify their optimal cut-off points. The participants were older patients from a Geriatric and Neurology Outpatient Clinic, Srinagarind Hospital, Khon Kaen University. The RUDAS-Thai and the MMSE-Thai 2002 were administered to each participant. Subsequently, a specialist physician assessed each participant for dementia. Results showed the area under receiver operating characteristic curve for both RUDAS-Thai (81.0%; 95%CI, 74.8-87.2) and MMSE-Thai 2002 (81.2%; 95%CI, 74.9-87.4) were equal. A score of 24 or lower provided an optimal cut-off point. Our finding supports that the RUDAS-Thai can be an effective alternative test for dementia screening. For both test scores, a score of 24 or lower is an optimal cut-off point to provide an indication of developing dementia.
Usefulness of F-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography in evaluation of gastric cancer stage]	The usefulness of F-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG)-PET in detecting primary cancer, lymph node metastasis, and distant metastasis were studied in the gastric cancer patients.
Good diagnostic performance of early migration as a predictor of late aseptic loosening of acetabular cups: results from ten years of follow-up with Roentgen stereophotogrammetric analysis (RSA).	Excessive early migration of femoral stems following total hip arthroplasty and tibial components following total knee arthroplasty is associated with their long-term survival and allows reliable early evaluation of implant performance. However, a similar relationship involving acetabular components following hip arthroplasty has not been evaluated. This prospective, long-term study with clinical and Roentgen stereophotogrammetric analysis (RSA) follow-up establishes the existence of this relationship and its associated diagnostic performance.
L-arginine and asymmetric dimethylarginine are early predictors for survival in septic patients with acute liver failure.	Dysfunctions of the L-arginine (L-arg)/nitric-oxide (NO) pathway are suspected to be important for the pathogenesis of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) in septic shock. Therefore plasma concentrations of L-arg and asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) were measured in 60 patients with septic shock, 30 surgical patients and 30 healthy volunteers using enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kits. Plasma samples from patients with septic shock were collected at sepsis onset, and 24h, 4d, 7d, 14d and 28d later. Samples from surgical patients were collected prior to surgery, immediately after the end of the surgical procedure as well as 24h later and from healthy volunteers once. In comparison to healthy volunteers and surgical patients, individuals with septic shock showed significantly increased levels of ADMA, as well as a decrease in the ratio of L-arg and ADMA at all timepoints. In septic patients with an acute liver failure (ALF), plasma levels of ADMA and L-arg were significantly increased in comparison to septic patients with an intact hepatic function. In summary it can be stated, that bioavailability of NO is reduced in septic shock. Moreover, measurements of ADMA and L-arg appear to be early predictors for survival in patients with sepsis-associated ALF.
N-terminal-pro-brain natriuretic peptide for the differential diagnosis of hypovolemia vs. euvolemia in hyponatremic patients.	Hyponatremia (serum sodium < 135 mEq/L) is the most common electrolyte abnormality in hospital and has impact on patient morbidity and mortality. The accuracy of volume status assessment is a major problem for the treatment planning especially to discriminate mild hypovolemic from euvolemic patients.
Development and evaluation of a multiplex enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for the detection of antibodies to bovine respiratory diseases on the Meso Scale Discovery platform.	A multiplex enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to detect antibodies to Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), Bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1), Bovine parainfluenza virus 3 (BPV-3), and Bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) was developed on the commercially available Meso Scale Discovery (MSD) platform. The multiplex ELISA used the same antigens (relatively crude lysates of cultured virus) that are used in the current in-house separate ELISAs. Testing a panel of field samples demonstrated the multiplex assay could simultaneously detect the presence of several antibodies in a single assay and that there was good agreement between the multiplex ELISA and the in-house ELISAs. The use of a multiplex ELISA could offer significant benefits for routine serological testing through reduced staff time, reduced reagent cost, and streamlined laboratory operation.
Predictive value of the physiological deadspace/tidal volume ratio in the weaning process of mechanical ventilation in children.	To evaluate the physiological deadspace/tidal volume ratio (VD/VT) as a predictor of extubation failure in 42 ventilated children (median age: 4.75 years).
Differentiation of kidney stones using dual-energy CT with and without a tin filter.	The aim of this in vitro study was to examine the capability of three protocols of dual-energy CT imaging in distinguishing calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate, and uric acid kidney stones.
Abbreviated MRI for patients presenting to the emergency department with hip pain.	The objective of our study was to assess the diagnostic performance of two abbreviated hip MRI protocols--coronal STIR images only and coronal STIR with coronal T1-weighted images--as compared with a full hip MRI protocol in patients presenting to the emergency department (ED) with hip pain and negative radiographic findings.
Diffusion-weighted imaging for differentiating benign from malignant skull lesions and correlation with cell density.	The objective of our study was to determine the utility of diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and cell density for differentiating benign from malignant skull lesions.
Locally advanced breast cancer: MR imaging for prediction of response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy--results from ACRIN 6657/I-SPY TRIAL.	To compare magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings and clinical assessment for prediction of pathologic response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) in patients with stage II or III breast cancer.
Identification of a 4-microRNA signature for clear cell renal cell carcinoma metastasis and prognosis.	Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) metastasis portends a poor prognosis and cannot be reliably predicted. Early determination of the metastatic potential of RCC may help guide proper treatment. We analyzed microRNA (miRNA) expression in clear cell RCC (ccRCC) for the purpose of developing a miRNA expression signature to determine the risk of metastasis and prognosis. We used the microarray technology to profile miRNA expression of 78 benign kidney and ccRCC samples. Using 28 localized and metastatic ccRCC specimens as the training cohort and the univariate logistic regression and risk score methods, we developed a miRNA signature model in which the expression levels of miR-10b, miR-139-5p, miR-130b and miR-199b-5p were used to determine the status of ccRCC metastasis. We validated the signature in an independent 40-sample testing cohort of different stages of primary ccRCCs using the microarray data. Within the testing cohort patients who had at least 5 years follow-up if no metastasis developed, the signature showed a high sensitivity and specificity. The risk status was proven to be associated with the cancer-specific survival. Using the most stably expressed miRNA among benign and tumorous kidney tissue as the internal reference for normalization, we successfully converted his signature to be a quantitative PCR (qPCR)-based assay, which showed the same high sensitivity and specificity. The 4-miRNA is associated with ccRCC metastasis and prognosis. The signature is ready for and will benefit from further large clinical cohort validation and has the potential for clinical application.
Classification of HIV-1 sequences using profile Hidden Markov Models.	Accurate classification of HIV-1 subtypes is essential for studying the dynamic spatial distribution pattern of HIV-1 subtypes and also for developing effective methods of treatment that can be targeted to attack specific subtypes. We propose a classification method based on profile Hidden Markov Model that can accurately identify an unknown strain. We show that a standard method that relies on the construction of a positive training set only, to capture unique features associated with a particular subtype, can accurately classify sequences belonging to all subtypes except B and D. We point out the drawbacks of the standard method; namely, an arbitrary choice of threshold to distinguish between true positives and true negatives, and the inability to discriminate between closely related subtypes. We then propose an improved classification method based on construction of a positive as well as a negative training set to improve discriminating ability between closely related subtypes like B and D. Finally, we show how the improved method can be used to accurately determine the subtype composition of Common Recombinant Forms of the virus that are made up of two or more subtypes. Our method provides a simple and highly accurate alternative to other classification methods and will be useful in accurately annotating newly sequenced HIV-1 strains.
Predictive values for food challenge-induced severe reactions: development of a simple food challenge score.	Skin-prick tests (SPT), food-specific immunoglobulin E level (sIgE) and clinical history have limited value individually in predicting the severity of outcome of the oral food challenge (OFC).
Islet cell liver metastases: assessment of volumetric early response with functional MR imaging after transarterial chemoembolization.	To assess early response to transarterial chemoembolization by using volumetric functional magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in patients with islet cell liver metastases (ICLMs).
Comparisons of established risk prediction models for cardiovascular disease: systematic review.	To evaluate the evidence on comparisons of established cardiovascular risk prediction models and to collect comparative information on their relative prognostic performance.
Leukocyte cell population analysis from the coulter automatic blood cell analyzer DxH800 to monitor the effect of G-CSF.	Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) induces the formation of toxic granulation neutrophils (TGNs), which are found in many inflammatory responses. Cell population data (CPD) may be able to clarify the effect of G-CSF, and potentially help doctors in discriminating the effect of G-CSF from other inflammatory situations.
Prognostic value of serum tenascin-C levels on long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction.	Tenascin-C (TN-C), an extracellular matrix glycoprotein, is not normally expressed in the adult heart but transiently reappears under various pathologic conditions to play important roles in tissue remodeling. It is unclear whether serum TN-C levels add prognostic information independent from traditional prognostic markers.
Aortic flow propagation velocity as an early predictor of high coronary risk in hypertensive patients.	To assess the value of aortic flow propagation velocity (Vp) in detecting hypertensive patients with coronary risk.
Is the frontal dysexecutive syndrome due to a working memory deficit? Evidence from patients with stroke.	Although frontal dysexecutive disorders are frequently considered to be due to working memory deficit, this has not been systematically examined and very little evidence is available for impairment of working memory in frontal damage. The objective of this study was to examine the components of working memory, their anatomy and the relations with executive functions in patients with stroke involving the frontal or posterior cortex. The study population consisted of 29 patients (frontal: n=17; posterior: n=12) and 29 matched controls. Phonological loop (letter and word spans, phonological store; rehearsal process), visuospatial sketchpad (visuospatial span) and the central executive (working memory span, dual task and updating process) were examined. The group comparison analysis showed impairment in the frontal group of: (i) verbal spans (P<0.03); (ii) with a deficit of the rehearsal process (P=0.006); (iii) visuospatial span (P=0.04); (iv) working memory span (P=0.001) that disappeared after controlling for verbal span and (v) running memory (P=0.05) unrelated to updating conditions. The clinical anatomical correlation study showed that impairment of the central executive depended on frontal and posterior lesion. Cognitive dysexecutive disorders were observed in 11/20 patients with central executive deficit and an inverse dissociation was observed in two patients. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis indicated that cognitive dysexecutive disorders had the highest ability to discriminate frontal lesions (area under curve=0.844, 95% confidence interval: 0.74-0.95; P=0.0001; central executive impairment: area under curve=0.732, 95% confidence interval: 0.57-0.82; P=0.006). This study reveals that frontal lesions induce mild impairment of short-term memory associated with a deficit of the rehearsal process supporting the role of the frontal lobe in this process; the central executive depends on lesions in the frontal lobe and posterior regions accounting for its low frequency and the negative results of group studies. Finally, the frontal dysexecutive syndrome cannot be attributed to central executive impairment, although it may contribute to some dysexecutive disorders.
Lymph node characterization in vivo using endoscopic ultrasound spectrum analysis with electronic array echo endoscopes.	Our purpose was to demonstrate the use of radiofrequency spectral analysis to distinguish between benign and malignant lymph nodes with data obtained using electronic array echo endoscopes, as we have done previously using mechanical echo endoscopes. In a prospective study, images were obtained from eight patients with benign-appearing lymph nodes and 11 with malignant lymph nodes, as verified by fine-needle aspiration. Midband fit, slope, intercept, correlation coefficient, and root-mean-square (RMS) deviation from a linear regression of the calibrated power spectra were determined and compared between the groups. Significant differences were observable for mean midband fit, intercept, and RMS deviation (t test P < 0.05). For benign (n = 16) vs. malignant (n = 12) lymph nodes, midband fit and RMS deviation provided classification with 89 % accuracy and area under receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve of 0.95 based on linear discriminant analysis. We concluded that the mean spectral parameters of the backscattered signals from electronic array echo endoscopy can provide a noninvasive method to quantitatively discriminate between benign and malignant lymph nodes.
Hsp 70, hsCRP and oxidative stress in patients with acute coronary syndromes.	Acute coronary syndromes (ACS) like unstable angina (UA) and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) can lead to the morbidity and mortality. The diagnosis and management of patients with ACS in the earliest times after symptom onset are considerably important in the emergency service. Study aimed to investigate the serum levels of heat shock protein 70 (Hsp 70), high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP), total creatine kinase (CK) activity, creatine kinase MB (CK-MB), cardiac troponin I (cTnI), leukocyte count (WBCs) and markers of oxidative stress in the first hours of ACS and to view their diagnostic values. 70 patients with ACS after admission and 20 sex-matched healthy controls were included in this study. Serum Hsp 70, hsCRP, CK, CK-MB, cTnI, protein carbonyls, malondialdehyde as well as whole blood WBCs were measured. The level of hsCRP was statistically higher in patients with AMI and UA than that of control group (p<0.001). WBCs and oxidized protein levels were higher in AMI than in UA and control groups. cTnI was related to CK-MB in AMI and UA groups (r=0.731, r=0.806, p<0.001, respectively) and also related with hsCRP in UA group (r=0.824, p<0.001). The mean Hsp 70 level was higher by 32.2% in AMI and 12.7% in UA patients compared to control subjects. hsCRP may have a role in the inflammatory response after ACS. In addition to cTnI and CK-MB, WBCs and hsCRP may be useful as a marker for the identification of ACS patients with chest pain in early diagnosing.
Improving detection of first-episode psychosis by mental health-care services using a self-report questionnaire.	To examine the utility of the Community Assessment of Psychic Experiences (CAPE)-42, a self-report questionnaire, to improve detection of first-episode psychosis in new referrals to mental health services.
Application of HPLC combined with laser induced fluorescence for protein profile analysis of tissue homogenates in cervical cancer.	A highly objective method, High Performance Liquid Chromatography with Laser Induced Fluorescence (HPLC-LIF) technique was used to study the protein profiles of normal and cervical cancer tissue homogenates. A total of 44 samples including normal cervical biopsy samples from the hysterectomy patients and the patients suffering from different stages of the cervical cancer were recorded by HPLC-LIF and analysed by Principle Component Analysis (PCA) to get statistical information on different tissue components. Discrimination of different stages of the samples was carried out by considering three parameters--scores of factor, spectral residual, and Mahalanobis Distance. Diagnostic accuracy of the method was evaluated using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis, and Youden's index (J) plots. The PCA results showed high sensitivity and specificity (~100) for cervical cancer diagnosis. ROC and Youden's index curves for both normal and malignant standard sets show good diagnostic accuracy with high AUC values. The statistical analysis has shown that the differences in protein profiles can be used to diagnose biochemical changes in the tissue, and thus can be readily applied for the detection of cervical cancer, even in situations where a histopathology examination is not easy because of nonavailability of experienced pathologists.
Alzheimer's disease: diagnosis by different methods of voxel-based morphometry.	The purpose of this study was to determine the optimal computational options in voxel-based morphometry (VBM) for discrimination between Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and healthy control (HC) subjects.
The correlation between the intraoperative flow of coronary artery bypass grafts and the patency of grafts at midterm follow-up]	We evaluated the correlation between the intraoperative flow of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and the patency of grafts at midterm follow-up. When internal mammary arteries were used as grafts, there was no correlation between graft flow rate and graft patency rate. On the other hand, when saphenous vein was used, the greater graft flow was associated with better graft patency. Receiver operator characteristic( ROC) analysis identified the optimum threshold for the intraoperative flow rate to predict the patency at midterm follow-up as 23 ml/min (sensitivity 78%, specificity 71%). The difference in the correlation( of flow rate with patency rate) between the 2 graft types was attributed to the difference of physiological reaction of each type of grafts.
The New York PTSD risk score for assessment of psychological trauma: male and female versions.	We previously developed a new posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) screening instrument-the New York PTSD Risk Score (NYPRS). Since research suggests different PTSD risk factors and outcomes for men and women, in the current study we assessed the suitability of male and female versions of this screening instrument among 3298 adults exposed to traumatic events. Using diagnostic test methods, including receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and bootstrap techniques, we examined different prediction domains, including core PTSD symptoms, trauma exposures, sleep disturbances, depression symptoms, and other measures to assess PTSD prediction models for men and women. While the original NYPRS worked well in predicting PTSD, significant interaction was detected by gender, suggesting that separate models are warranted for men and women. Model comparisons suggested that while the overall results appeared robust, prediction results differed by gender. For example, for women, core PTSD symptoms contributed more to the prediction score than for men. For men, depression symptoms, sleep disturbance, and trauma exposure contributed more to the prediction score. Men also had higher cut-off scores for PTSD compared to women. There were other gender-specific differences as well. The NYPRS is a screener that appears to be effective in predicting PTSD status among at-risk populations. However, consistent with other medical research, this instrument appears to require male and female versions to be the most effective.
A predictive model of intein insertion site for use in the engineering of molecular switches.	Inteins are intervening protein domains with self-splicing ability that can be used as molecular switches to control activity of their host protein. Successfully engineering an intein into a host protein requires identifying an insertion site that permits intein insertion and splicing while allowing for proper folding of the mature protein post-splicing. By analyzing sequence and structure based properties of native intein insertion sites we have identified four features that showed significant correlation with the location of the intein insertion sites, and therefore may be useful in predicting insertion sites in other proteins that provide native-like intein function. Three of these properties, the distance to the active site and dimer interface site, the SVM score of the splice site cassette, and the sequence conservation of the site showed statistically significant correlation and strong predictive power, with area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.79, 0.76, and 0.73 respectively, while the distance to secondary structure/loop junction showed significance but with less predictive power (AUC of 0.54). In a case study of 20 insertion sites in the XynB xylanase, two features of native insertion sites showed correlation with the splice sites and demonstrated predictive value in selecting non-native splice sites. Structural modeling of intein insertions at two sites highlighted the role that the insertion site location could play on the ability of the intein to modulate activity of the host protein. These findings can be used to enrich the selection of insertion sites capable of supporting intein splicing and hosting an intein switch.
Is there any relationship between pulmonary function tests and post-transplant complications of allogeneic hematopoetic stem cell transplantation?	Pulmonary function tests (PFT) have an important role in the assessment of pulmonary and nonpulmonary complications of hematopoetic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). In this study the relationship between PFTs and DLCOadj values and the complications of HSCT was investigated. The possible role of iron overload in the deterioration of the PFTs after HSCT was also searched.
Serum inter-cellular adhesion molecule 1 is an early marker of diagnosis and prediction of severe acute pancreatitis.	To determine if serum inter-cellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) is an early marker of the diagnosis and prediction of severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) within 24 h of onset of pain, and to compare the sensitivity, specificity and prognostic value of this test with those of acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (APACHE)IIscore and interleukin-6 (IL-6).
The Beck depression inventory-II in adolescent mental health patients: cut-off scores for detecting depression and rating severity.	The Beck Depression Inventory-Second Edition (BDI-II) was developed as an indicator of the presence and severity of depression in psychiatric patients from age 13. Its cut-off scores were derived from an adult sample and differentiate four categories of severity but contain no screening cut-off score for classifying patients as depressed vs. nondepressed. We aimed to determine this screening cut-off score and to examine the utility of the severity cut-off scores for adolescents in mental health care. 88 adolescent psychiatric patients (13-16 years, 58% female) completed the German BDI-II. A structured diagnostic interview served as the reference standard for computing receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and identified 24 adolescents (27%) as depressed. ROC analysis of depressed vs. nondepressed patients yielded an area under the curve (AUC) value of 0.93. The optimal screening cut-off score according to Youden's Index was 23, where sensitivity was 0.88 and specificity was 0.92. The severity cut-off scores yielded satisfying sensitivity (0.89) and specificity (0.72) for mild and moderate but not for severe depression. Our findings indicate that the BDI-II can be recommended for screening for depressive disorders in adolescent mental health patients. However, the currently used severity cut-off scores may be suboptimal for this population.
The utility of visceral fat level by bioelectrical impedance analysis in the screening of metabolic syndrome - the results of the Kyushu and Okinawa Population Study (KOPS).	A simple, non-invasive medical device, using bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) for the evaluation of visceral fat level (VFL) was developed recently. The aim of this study was to investigate the utility of VFL by BIA in the screening of metabolic syndrome (MetS).
Relation between maximum phonation time and exercise capacity in chronic heart failure patients.	Patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) commonly fatigue easily due to low peak oxygen uptake (peak VO(2)), an important index of exercise capacity. Maximum phonation time (MPT) is widely used to evaluate maximum vocal capabilities because it is non-invasive, quick, and inexpensive.
The quantitative Gleason score improves prostate cancer risk assessment.	In the current study, the authors propose the quantitative Gleason score (qGS), a modification of the current Gleason grading system for prostate cancer, based on the weighted average of Gleason patterns present in the pathology specimen. They hypothesize that the qGS can improve prostate cancer risk stratification and help prevent the overtreatment of patients with clinically indolent tumors.
Classic anthropometric and body composition indicators can predict risk of metabolic syndrome in elderly.	Although a variety of classical body measurements have been used to assess adiposity, it is still uncertain which is the best indicator to predict effects arising from the accumulation of body fat (BF) in the elderly. The objective of this study was to analyze different classical anthropometric and body composition measurements and their potential for predicting metabolic syndrome (MS) in elderly women.
Detection of crestal radiolucencies around dental implants: an in vitro experimental study.	The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic potentials and practical advantages of different imaging modalities in detecting bone defects around dental implants.
Diagnostic value of the rapid assessment of postural instability in Parkinson's disease (RAPID) questionnaire.	People with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) develop postural instability in the later stages of the ailment. Postural instability has traditionally been quantified with the Pull test even though its face validity is limited. We previously established cut-off scores for a three-part rapid assessment of postural instability (RAPID) questionnaire as a non-physical complement to the physical test. In the current study, the questionnaire was administered to a new group of PD subjects to evaluate the diagnostic value of the instrument.
Defining "liver-up": does the volume of liver herniation predict outcome for fetuses with isolated left-sided congenital diaphragmatic hernia?	The aim of the study was to evaluate the relationship between the degree of liver herniation and mortality or need for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) in isolated left-sided congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH).
Utility of the computed tomography severity index (Balthazar score) in children with acute pancreatitis.	Previous studies in children with acute pancreatitis have demonstrated that clinical scoring systems such as the Ranson, modified Glasgow, and pediatric acute pancreatitis scores are of value in predicting severity of the disease. The aim of this study was to determine the predictive value of the computed tomography severity index (CTSI or Balthazar score) in pediatric patients.
Schizophrenia is associated with increased levels of serum Fas and FasL.	A growing body of evidence suggests that the apoptotic process is dysregulated in schizophrenia. However, only a few studies have evaluated apoptotic markers in vivo in patients or their cell cultures.
Prospective comparison of severity scores for predicting mortality in community-acquired pneumonia.	Specific prognostic models for community acquired pneumonia (CAP) to guide treatment decisions have been developed, such us the Pneumonia Severity Index (PSI) and the Confusion, Urea nitrogen, Respiratory rate, Blood pressure and age  65 years index (CURB-65). Additionally, general models are available such as the Mortality Probability Model (MPM-II). So far, which score performs better in CAP remains controversial. The objective was to compare PSI and CURB-65 and the general model, MPM-II, for predicting 30-day mortality in patients admitted with CAP.
Comparison of the effectiveness of body mass index and body fat percentage in defining body composition.	Body mass index (BMI) has limited diagnostic performance due to its inability to discriminate between fat and lean mass. This study was conducted to compare the effectiveness of body fat percentage (BFP) against BMI in defining body composition.
Serum and peritoneal fluid immunological markers in adolescent girls with chronic pelvic pain.	The aim of this study was to determine serum and peritoneal interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4, and monocyte chemotactic protein-1 levels as diagnostic markers of endometriosis in adolescent girls. The design of the study encompassed 50 adolescent girls, aged 13 to 19 years after menarche, with chronic pelvic pain who qualified for diagnostic laparoscopy. The patients were allocated into 2 groups: group I (endometriosis) consisted of subjects with diagnosed endometriosis (n = 33, 66%) and group II (control) whose laparoscopic examinations revealed no evidence of endometriosis (n = 17, 34%). IL-2, IL-4, and Monocyte chemotactic protein 1 concentrations in serum and peritoneal samples were assessed using commercially available human enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits. The results were analyzed statistically with the Statistica 8.0 computer software. The value of P < 0.05 was the level of statistical significance. The results in adolescents with endometriosis had significantly higher concentrations of serum IL-4 (3.90  1.58 pg/mL vs. 3.04  1.72 pg/mL; P = 0.04) and peritoneal fluid IL-4 (5.03  8.92 pg/mL vs. 2.74  1.11 pg/mL; P = 0.03), and lower peritoneal fluid IL-2 (92.44  292.75 pg/mL vs. 174.23  389.77 pg/mL; P = 0.01) compared with the control. In a receiver-operating characteristic analysis, serum IL-4 as well as peritoneal fluid IL-2 and IL-4 provided the best discriminative ability between subjects with endometriosis and controls. Using cutoff points for serum IL-4 (3.00 pg/mL), peritoneal fluid IL-2 (21.00 pg/mL) and IL-4 (2.7 pg/mL), relatively high odd ratios were obtained in the prediction of endometriosis in adolescents (3.2; 6.4; 3.3). The Serum IL-4, peritoneal IL-2 and IL-4 provided a good method of discrimination between subjects with endometriosis and controls.
Large-scale prediction of adverse drug reactions using chemical, biological, and phenotypic properties of drugs.	Adverse drug reaction (ADR) is one of the major causes of failure in drug development. Severe ADRs that go undetected until the post-marketing phase of a drug often lead to patient morbidity. Accurate prediction of potential ADRs is required in the entire life cycle of a drug, including early stages of drug design, different phases of clinical trials, and post-marketing surveillance.
Correlation of the myocardial performance index with plasma B-type natriuretic peptide levels in type 2 diabetes mellitus and impaired glucose tolerance.	In this study, we aimed to evaluate myocardial functions in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) and impaired glucose tolerance (IGT). We also aimed to investigate the relationship between B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels and myocardial performance index (Tei index) in these patients.
What level of hyperglycaemia on admission indicates a poor prognosis in patients with myocardial infarction treated invasively?	Stress hyperglycaemia on admission is a predictor of mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction (MI).
Globulin-platelet model predicts minimal fibrosis and cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis B virus infected patients.	To establish a simple model consisting of the routine laboratory variables to predict both minimal fibrosis and cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV)-infected patients.
Role of ascites adenosine deaminase in differentiating between tuberculous peritonitis and peritoneal carcinomatosis.	To investigate the usefulness of tumor markers and adenosine deaminase in differentiating between tuberculous peritonitis (TBP) and peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC).
Serum microRNA signatures identified by Solexa sequencing predict sepsis patients' mortality: a prospective observational study.	Sepsis is the leading cause of death in Intensive Care Units. Novel sepsis biomarkers and targets for treatment are needed to improve mortality from sepsis. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have recently been used as finger prints for sepsis, and our goal in this prospective study was to investigate if serum miRNAs identified in genome-wide scans could predict sepsis mortality.
Improving disease gene prioritization by comparing the semantic similarity of phenotypes in mice with those of human diseases.	Despite considerable progress in understanding the molecular origins of hereditary human diseases, the molecular basis of several thousand genetic diseases still remains unknown. High-throughput phenotype studies are underway to systematically assess the phenotype outcome of targeted mutations in model organisms. Thus, comparing the similarity between experimentally identified phenotypes and the phenotypes associated with human diseases can be used to suggest causal genes underlying a disease. In this manuscript, we present a method for disease gene prioritization based on comparing phenotypes of mouse models with those of human diseases. For this purpose, either human disease phenotypes are "translated" into a mouse-based representation (using the Mammalian Phenotype Ontology), or mouse phenotypes are "translated" into a human-based representation (using the Human Phenotype Ontology). We apply a measure of semantic similarity and rank experimentally identified phenotypes in mice with respect to their phenotypic similarity to human diseases. Our method is evaluated on manually curated and experimentally verified gene-disease associations for human and for mouse. We evaluate our approach using a Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis and obtain an area under the ROC curve of up to . Furthermore, we are able to confirm previous results that the Vax1 gene is involved in Septo-Optic Dysplasia and suggest Gdf6 and Marcks as further potential candidates. Our method significantly outperforms previous phenotype-based approaches of prioritizing gene-disease associations. To enable the adaption of our method to the analysis of other phenotype data, our software and prioritization results are freely available under a BSD licence at http://code.google.com/p/phenomeblast/wiki/CAMP. Furthermore, our method has been integrated in PhenomeNET and the results can be explored using the PhenomeBrowser at http://phenomebrowser.net.
SUMOhydro: a novel method for the prediction of sumoylation sites based on hydrophobic properties.	Sumoylation is one of the most essential mechanisms of reversible protein post-translational modifications and is a crucial biochemical process in the regulation of a variety of important biological functions. Sumoylation is also closely involved in various human diseases. The accurate computational identification of sumoylation sites in protein sequences aids in experimental design and mechanistic research in cellular biology. In this study, we introduced amino acid hydrophobicity as a parameter into a traditional binary encoding scheme and developed a novel sumoylation site prediction tool termed SUMOhydro. With the assistance of a support vector machine, the proposed method was trained and tested using a stringent non-redundant sumoylation dataset. In a leave-one-out cross-validation, the proposed method yielded an excellent performance with a correlation coefficient, specificity, sensitivity and accuracy equal to 0.690, 98.6%, 71.1% and 97.5%, respectively. In addition, SUMOhydro has been benchmarked against previously described predictors based on an independent dataset, thereby suggesting that the introduction of hydrophobicity as an additional parameter could assist in the prediction of sumoylation sites. Currently, SUMOhydro is freely accessible at http://protein.cau.edu.cn/others/SUMOhydro/.
Categorical, yet graded--single-image activation profiles of human category-selective cortical regions.	Human inferior temporal cortex contains category-selective visual regions, including the fusiform face area (FFA) and the parahippocampal place area (PPA). These regions are defined by their greater category-average activation to the preferred category (faces and places, respectively) relative to nonpreferred categories. The approach of investigating category-average activation has left unclear to what extent category selectivity holds for individual object images. Here we investigate single-image activation profiles to address (1) whether each image from the preferred category elicits greater activation than any image outside the preferred category (categorical ranking), (2) whether there are activation differences within and outside the preferred category (gradedness), and (3) whether the activation profile falls off continuously across the category boundary or exhibits a discontinuity at the boundary (category step). We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure the activation elicited in the FFA and PPA by each of 96 object images from a wide range of categories, including faces and places, but also humans and animals, and natural and manmade objects. Results suggest that responses in FFA and PPA exhibit almost perfect categorical ranking, are graded within and outside the preferred category, and exhibit a category step. The gradedness within the preferred category was more pronounced in FFA; the category step was more pronounced in PPA. These findings support the idea that these regions have category-specific functions, but are also consistent with a distributed object representation emphasizing categories while still distinguishing individual images.
Diagnostic accuracy of adenosine deaminase and lymphocyte proportion in pleural fluid for tuberculous pleurisy in different prevalence scenarios.	Tuberculous pleural effusion (TPE) is a paucibacillary manifestation of tuberculosis, so isolation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis is difficult, biomarkers being an alternative for diagnosis. Adenosine deaminase (ADA) is the most cost-effective pleural fluid marker and is routinely used in high prevalence settings, whereas its value is questioned in areas with low prevalence. The lymphocyte proportion (LP) is known to increase the specificity of ADA for this diagnosis. We analyse the diagnostic usefulness of ADA alone and the combination of ADA  40 U/l (ADA(40)) and LP  50% (LP(50)) in three different prevalence scenarios over 11 years in our area.
Profound effect of profiling platform and normalization strategy on detection of differentially expressed microRNAs--a comparative study.	Adequate normalization minimizes the effects of systematic technical variations and is a prerequisite for getting meaningful biological changes. However, there is inconsistency about miRNA normalization performances and recommendations. Thus, we investigated the impact of seven different normalization methods (reference gene index, global geometric mean, quantile, invariant selection, loess, loessM, and generalized procrustes analysis) on intra- and inter-platform performance of two distinct and commonly used miRNA profiling platforms.
Prediction of metal ion-binding sites in proteins using the fragment transformation method.	The structure of a protein determines its function and its interactions with other factors. Regions of proteins that interact with ligands, substrates, and/or other proteins, tend to be conserved both in sequence and structure, and the residues involved are usually in close spatial proximity. More than 70,000 protein structures are currently found in the Protein Data Bank, and approximately one-third contain metal ions essential for function. Identifying and characterizing metal ion-binding sites experimentally is time-consuming and costly. Many computational methods have been developed to identify metal ion-binding sites, and most use only sequence information. For the work reported herein, we developed a method that uses sequence and structural information to predict the residues in metal ion-binding sites. Six types of metal ion-binding templates- those involving Ca(2+), Cu(2+), Fe(3+), Mg(2+), Mn(2+), and Zn(2+)-were constructed using the residues within 3.5  of the center of the metal ion. Using the fragment transformation method, we then compared known metal ion-binding sites with the templates to assess the accuracy of our method. Our method achieved an overall 94.6 % accuracy with a true positive rate of 60.5 % at a 5 % false positive rate and therefore constitutes a significant improvement in metal-binding site prediction.
Evaluation of the Balance Error Scoring System (BESS) in the diagnosis of acute mountain sickness at 4380m.	Ascent to altitude is associated with a decrease in balance; however, the effect of acute mountain sickness (AMS) status on balance is variable depending on the test used and the altitude at which the test is performed. Here, we report preliminary findings on the relationship between the balance error scoring system (BESS) and AMS at the 2010 Janai Purnima festival at Gosainkunda, Nepal (4380m). All subjects (n=37) completed a shortened BESS test (mBESS) while a subset completed the full BESS test (n=27). Pulse oximetry was used to measure heart rate and oxygen saturation, and blood pressure was measured by sphygmomanometer. Balance test scores (BESS and mBESS) and physiological measurements were compared between groups with AMS (AMS) and without AMS (AMS). Receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) curves were used to compare the abilities of the BESS and mBESS tests to correctly identify the AMS status of subjects. The AMS group had significantly higher Lake Louise scores than the AMS group (mean=4.0 (standard deviation=1.3) vs. 0.3 (0.6), p<0.001). The AMS group also scored significantly higher on both the mBESS (6.6 (3.5) vs. 2.7 (1.7) errors, p=0.018) and the BESS tests (19.2 (8.8) vs. 10.4 (6.0) errors, p=0.001) compared to the AMS group, indicating inferior balance in the AMS group. The area under the ROC curve was significantly greater for the BESS test (0.895) compared to the mBESS test (0.690, p=0.02), implying that the full BESS test more accurately identified a subject's AMS status. Additional studies are needed to determine if BESS could be a useful adjunct to the clinical diagnosis of AMS.
STOP questionnaire to screen for hypoxemia in deep sedation for young and middle-aged colonoscopy.	Hypoxemia is the most common unexpected cardiopulmonary complication that is used as a surrogate for severe complications in colonoscopy. The aim of the present study was to access the STOP Questionnaire to screen for hypoxemia in deep sedation for colonoscopy in young and middle-aged outpatients.
Vascular morphologic information of three-dimensional power Doppler ultrasound is valuable in the classification of breast lesions.	Doppler ultrasound imaging provides vascular information that could characterize benign and malignant breast masses in many previous publications. In this study, we applied vascular quantification and morphology features derived from three-dimensional power Doppler ultrasound as classifiers based on support vector machine. An Az value under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used to measure the significance of each vascularization feature. Sixty solid breast tumors were assessed. According to the Az value for the ROC curve of the selected features, the classification performance of the proposed method was 0.8423, indicating that vascular morphologic information is valuable in the classification of breast lesions.
The role of proton MR spectroscopy and apparent diffusion coefficient values in the diagnosis of malignant thyroid nodules: preliminary results.	Performance of proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (H-MRS) and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values in the diagnosis of malignant thyroid nodules.
Identifying uncontrolled asthma in children with the childhood asthma control test or exhaled nitric oxide measurement.	International guidelines highlight the importance of assessing asthma control status in children with asthma, and research on practical and objective instruments for assessing asthma control is ongoing.
Normative and criterion-related standards for shuttle run performance in youth.	The purpose of this study was to calculate and validate reference standards for the 20-m shuttle run test (SR) in youths aged 10-18 years. Reference standards based on the number of completed SR laps were calculated by LMS method in a reference group of 5559 students. Cut-off values for SR laps were determined and tested by ROC curve analysis in a validation group (633 students), from which waist circumference, HDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, fasting glucose and mean arterial pressure were assessed to calculate a metabolic risk score, later dichotomized in low and high metabolic risk (HMRS). The accuracy of SR laps standards was significant for girls (AUC = 0.66; 95% CI = 0.58-0.74; p < .001) and boys (AUC = 0.71; 95% CI = 0.62-0.79; p < .001) for identifying subjects at HMRS. The 40th percentile was the best cut-off for SR laps in girls (SENS = 0.569; 1-SPEC = 0.330) and boys (SENS = 0.634; 1-SPEC = 0.266). New SR laps reference standards are able to discriminate metabolic risk levels, and may provide a valuable tool for early prevention of cardiovascular risk factors.
CCL2, galectin-3, and SMRP combination improves the diagnosis of mesothelioma in pleural effusions.	Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a highly aggressive tumor with poor prognosis. One major challenge for this disease is the development of new, early, and highly reliable diagnostic markers. The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic value of the chemokine chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2 (CCL2), galectin-3, and the secretory leukocyte peptidase inhibitor (SLPI) with soluble mesothelin-related peptides (SMRP), and to evaluate the diagnostic performance of marker combinations.
EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire role as predictor for malnutrition risk in head and neck cancer Mexican patients]	Head and neck cancer treatment restricts oral intake and conditioning malnutrition. Adequate nutritional support during treatment can limit the impact of side effects.
Confirming the validity of the CONUT system for early detection and monitoring of clinical undernutrition: comparison with two logistic regression models developed using SGA as the gold standard.	To ratify previous validations of the CONUT nutritional screening tool by the development of two probabilistic models using the parameters included in the CONUT, to see if the CONUTs effectiveness could be improved.
Hydrogen-1 MR spectroscopy for measurement and diagnosis of hepatic steatosis.	Hydrogen-1 MR spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) is gaining acceptance as a noninvasive technique for assessment of hepatic steatosis, and the findings have been found to correlate closely with histopathologic grade. The aims of this study were to validate (1)H-MRS performed with a 3-T MRI system for quantifying hepatic steatosis and to determine threshold values of (1)H-MRS proton density fat fraction corresponding to standard histopathologic grade in patients undergoing diagnostic liver biopsy.
Performance of real-time strain elastography, transient elastography, and aspartate-to-platelet ratio index in the assessment of fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C.	The purpose of this article is to evaluate the diagnostic performance of transient elastography, real-time strain elastography, and aspartate-to-platelet ratio index in assessing fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C by using histologic Metavir scores as reference standard.
Association between visceral adiposity and colorectal polyps on CT colonography.	The purpose of this article is to determine whether there is an association between visceral adiposity measured on CT colonography (CTC) and colorectal polyps.
The clinical value of diffusion-weighted imaging in combination with T2-weighted imaging in diagnosing prostate carcinoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	We aimed to explore the role of diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) in combination with T2-weighted imaging (T2WI) in detecting prostate carcinoma through a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Utility of MRI features for differentiation of retroperitoneal fibrosis and lymphoma.	The objective of our study was to retrospectively compare the MRI features of retroperitoneal fibrosis (RPF) and lymphoma presenting as confluent retroperitoneal soft tissue.
Association between carotid artery plaque volume, composition, and ulceration: a retrospective assessment with MDCT.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationship between MDCT angiography-assessed carotid artery plaque volume and composition and the presence of ulceration.
Improved tumor contrast achieved by single time point dual-reporter fluorescence imaging.	In this study, we demonstrate a method to quantify biomarker expression that uses an exogenous dual-reporter imaging approach to improve tumor signal detection. The uptake of two fluorophores, one nonspecific and one targeted to the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), were imaged at 1 h in three types of xenograft tumors spanning a range of EGFR expression levels (n=6 in each group). Using this dual-reporter imaging methodology, tumor contrast-to-noise ratio was amplified by >6 times at 1 h postinjection and >2 times at 24 h. Furthermore, by as early as 20 min postinjection, the dual-reporter imaging signal in the tumor correlated significantly with a validated marker of receptor density (P<0.05, r=0.93). Dual-reporter imaging can improve sensitivity and specificity over conventional fluorescence imaging in applications such as fluorescence-guided surgery and directly approximates the receptor status of the tumor, a measure that could be used to inform choices of biological therapies.
Physical activity as a predictor of absence of frailty in the elderly.	To analyze physical activity in different domains (work, transportation, housework, and leisure) as a predictor of the absence of frailty.
Scattering removal for finger-vein image restoration.	Finger-vein recognition has received increased attention recently. However, the finger-vein images are always captured in poor quality. This certainly makes finger-vein feature representation unreliable, and further impairs the accuracy of finger-vein recognition. In this paper, we first give an analysis of the intrinsic factors causing finger-vein image degradation, and then propose a simple but effective image restoration method based on scattering removal. To give a proper description of finger-vein image degradation, a biological optical model (BOM) specific to finger-vein imaging is proposed according to the principle of light propagation in biological tissues. Based on BOM, the light scattering component is sensibly estimated and properly removed for finger-vein image restoration. Finally, experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method is powerful in enhancing the finger-vein image contrast and in improving the finger-vein image matching accuracy.
Evaluation of card-type odor identification test for Japanese patients with olfactory disturbance.	A card-type odor identification test, Open Essence (OE), was recently developed in order to examine olfactory function in the Japanese population. The purpose of this study was to validate the efficacy of this new test by comparison with established olfactory examinations.
Detecting relevant changes and responsiveness of Neck Pain and Disability Scale and Neck Disability Index.	To investigate relevant change on the Neck Pain and Disability Scale (NPAD) and Neck Disability Index (NDI) and which questionnaire is the most responsive in patients with non-specific chronic neck pain (CNP).
Predictors of the complication of postintubation hypotension during emergency airway management.	Arterial hypotension is a recognized complication of emergency intubation that is independently associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Our aim was to identify factors associated with postintubation hypotension after emergency intubation.
Accuracy of real-time shear wave elastography for assessing liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C: a pilot study.	Real-time shear wave elastography (SWE) is a novel, noninvasive method to assess liver fibrosis by measuring liver stiffness. This single-center study was conducted to assess the accuracy of SWE in patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC), in comparison with transient elastography (TE), by using liver biopsy (LB) as the reference standard. Consecutive patients with CHC scheduled for LB by referring physicians were studied. One hundred and twenty-one patients met inclusion criteria. On the same day, real-time SWE using the ultrasound (US) system, Aixplorer (SuperSonic Imagine S.A., Aix-en-Provence, France), TE using FibroScan (Echosens, Paris, France), and US-assisted LB were consecutively performed. Fibrosis was staged according to the METAVIR scoring system. Analyses of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve were performed to calculate optimal area under the ROC curve (AUROC) for F0-F1 versus F2-F4, F0- F2 versus F3-F4, and F0-F3 versus F4 for both real-time SWE and TE. Liver stiffness values increased in parallel with degree of liver fibrosis, both with SWE and TE. AUROCs were 0.92 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.85-0.96) for SWE and 0.84 (95% CI: 0.76-0.90) for TE (P = 0.002), 0.98 (95% CI: 0.94-1.00) for SWE and 0.96 (95% CI: 0.90-0.99) for TE (P = 0.14), and 0.98 (95% CI: 0.93-1.00) for SWE and 0.96 (95% CI: 0.91-0.99) for TE (P = 0.48), when comparing F0-F1 versus F2- F4, F0- F2 versus F3-F4, and F0 -F3 versus F4, respectively.
Prediction of long-term clinical outcome in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis.	The natural course of lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) fluctuates and is not necessarily progressive. The aim of this study was to explore the predictors of clinical outcome in patients with LSS that might eventually help to optimise the therapeutic choices.
A genome-wide 3C-method for characterizing the three-dimensional architectures of genomes.	Accumulating evidence demonstrates that the three-dimensional (3D) organization of chromosomes within the eukaryotic nucleus reflects and influences genomic activities, including transcription, DNA replication, recombination and DNA repair. In order to uncover structure-function relationships, it is necessary first to understand the principles underlying the folding and the 3D arrangement of chromosomes. Chromosome conformation capture (3C) provides a powerful tool for detecting interactions within and between chromosomes. A high throughput derivative of 3C, chromosome conformation capture on chip (4C), executes a genome-wide interrogation of interaction partners for a given locus. We recently developed a new method, a derivative of 3C and 4C, which, similar to Hi-C, is capable of comprehensively identifying long-range chromosome interactions throughout a genome in an unbiased fashion. Hence, our method can be applied to decipher the 3D architectures of genomes. Here, we provide a detailed protocol for this method.
Use of a prosthetic mesh to prevent parastomal hernia during laparoscopic abdominoperineal resection: a randomized controlled trial.	Prevention of parastomal hernia represents an important aim when a permanent stoma is necessary. The objective of this work is to assess whether implantation of a prophylactic prosthetic mesh during laparoscopic abdominoperineal resection contributed to reduce the incidence of parastomal hernia.
Correlation of serum IgG concentration in foals and refractometry index of the dam's pre- and post-parturient colostrums: an assessment for failure of passive transfer in foals.	The object of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of measuring the differences in the values of the serum total protein (DVSTP) concentration of foals and the refractometry index (DVRI) of the milk of dams before and after nursing of the colostrum for assessing failure of passive transfer (FPT) in foals. Serum samples from 31 foals were collected before the first nursing and other 1 to 6 times between 4 and 24 hr after birth. Paired colostrum and milk samples were collected from 14 of their dams at the same time. Serum samples were analyzed for IgG concentration using a single radial immunodiffusion (SRID) test (98 samples) and total protein concentration using a temperature-compensating refractometer (98 samples). Colostrum and milk samples were analyzed for refractometry index (RI) using a Brix refractometer (71 samples). DVSTP concentration and DVRI were significantly correlated with serum IgG concentration. The negative predictive values (NPVs) of DVSTP concentration for detecting serum IgG concentrations<400 mg/dl and<800 mg/dl were 98.2% and 91.3% when the cutoff value is set to 0.4 mg/dl and 0.8 mg/dl, respectively. Furthermore, the NPVs of DVRI for detecting serum IgG concentrations<400 mg/dl and<800 mg/dl were 97.3% and 96.3% when the cutoff value is set to 6% and 10%, respectively. The results suggest that measurement of DVRI is useful in assessing FPT as an initial "stall-side" screening test, because it is easy, inexpensive to perform and allows for rapid interpretation.
Positive predictive value of albumin: globulin ratio for feline infectious peritonitis in a mid-western referral hospital population.	Low albumin to globulin ratio has been found previously to have a high positive predictive value for feline infectious peritonitis (FIP) in cats with clinical signs highly suggestive of the disease. However, FIP can have a more vague clinical presentation. This retrospective study found that the positive predictive value of an albumin:globulin (A:G) ratio of <0.8 and <0.6 was only 12.5% and 25%, respectively, in a group of 100 cats with one or more clinical signs consistent with FIP. The negative predictive value was 100% and 99% for an A:G ratio of <0.8 and A:G<0.6%, respectively. Therefore, when the prevalence of FIP is low, the A:G ratio is useful to rule out FIP but is not helpful in making a positive diagnosis of FIP.
Relationship between the neonatal white blood cell count and histologic chorioamnionitis in preterm newborns.	The aim was to examine the relationship between neonatal white blood cell (WBC) count and the diagnosis of histologic chorioamnionitis (HCA).
Comparison of arterial stiffness indices measured by the Colins and SphygmoCor systems.	Arterial stiffness is a known independent predictor of cardiovascular mortality. The Colins system is an easy device and has gained widespread use, but the cutoff value for high-risk central arterial stiffness is not well established. We investigated the correlation between arterial stiffness measured by the Colins system with conventional measurements from the SphygmoCor system. Arterial pulse wave velocity (PWV) and augmentation indices (AIs) were measured on a single visit using two different devices in 948 patients with hypertension or coronary artery disease. Strong positive correlations were observed for PWV values measured by the SphygmoCor and Colins systems. The Colins system measurements accurately predicted high-risk central arterial stiffness, defined as carotid-femoral PWV12ms(-1), with an area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.884 (heart-femoral PWV, hfPWV) and 0.830 (brachial-ankle PWV, baPWV) in the training set (N=664). The cutoff values, 11.18 (hfPWV) and 16.17ms(-1) (baPWV), showed good discrimination in the validation set (N=284), with sensitivity of 83.3 (hfPWV) and 76.0% (baPWV), and specificity of 74.9 (hfPWV) and 82.6% (baPWV). The SphygmoCor and Colins AI systems also showed moderate positive correlation. The Colins AI system better predicted high-risk central pulse pressure as defined by pulse pressure50mmHg (AUC: Colins, 0.765; SphygmoCor, 0.692; P=0.011). Arterial stiffness measured by the Colins system showed strong positive correlation and agreement with the SphygmoCor system measurement. Cutoff values for high-risk central arterial stiffness in the Colins system need further validation in a prospective study.
Performance of the parent emotional functioning (PREMO) screener in parents of children undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.	Parents of children undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) may face emotional distress while managing intense treatments with uncertain outcomes. We evaluated a brief parental emotional functioning (PREMO) screener from a health-related quality of life instrument to identify parental emotional distress, as measured by the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I Disorders (SCID).
Frequency of non-asthma GP visits predicts asthma  exacerbations: an observational study in general practice.	Being able to identify patients at risk of exacerbations is useful as it enables resources to be targeted at these patients.
The impact of obesity on the predictive accuracy of PSA in men undergoing prostate biopsy.	Obese men have been reported to have lower serum PSA values relative to normal-weight men in population-based studies, screening cohorts, and in men with prostate cancer (CaP) treated with surgery. There are concerns that PSA may be less accurate in detecting prostate cancer in men with increased body mass index (BMI). We determine whether the diagnostic potential of PSA is negatively influenced by obesity by comparing its operating characteristics across BMI categories among men undergoing prostate biopsy.
Classification of traumatic brain injury severity using informed data reduction in a series of binary classifier algorithms.	Assessment of medical disorders is often aided by objective diagnostic tests which can lead to early intervention and appropriate treatment. In the case of brain dysfunction caused by head injury, there is an urgent need for quantitative evaluation methods to aid in acute triage of those subjects who have sustained traumatic brain injury (TBI). Current clinical tools to detect mild TBI (mTBI/concussion) are limited to subjective reports of symptoms and short neurocognitive batteries, offering little objective evidence for clinical decisions; or computed tomography (CT) scans, with radiation-risk, that are most often negative in mTBI. This paper describes a novel methodology for the development of algorithms to provide multi-class classification in a substantial population of brain injured subjects, across a broad age range and representative subpopulations. The method is based on age-regressed quantitative features (linear and nonlinear) extracted from brain electrical activity recorded from a limited montage of scalp electrodes. These features are used as input to a unique "informed data reduction" method, maximizing confidence of prospective validation and minimizing over-fitting. A training set for supervised learning was used, including: "normal control," "concussed," and "structural injury/CT positive (CT+)." The classifier function separating CT+ from the other groups demonstrated a sensitivity of 96% and specificity of 78%; the classifier separating "normal controls" from the other groups demonstrated a sensitivity of 81% and specificity of 74%, suggesting high utility of such classifiers in acute clinical settings. The use of a sequence of classifiers where the desired risk can be stratified further supports clinical utility.
Growth differentiation factor 15, ST2, high-sensitivity troponin T, and N-terminal pro brain natriuretic peptide in heart failure with preserved vs. reduced ejection fraction.	Growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15), ST2, high-sensitivity troponin T (hsTnT), and N-terminal pro brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) are biomarkers of distinct mechanisms that may contribute to the pathophysiology of heart failure (HF) [inflammation (GDF15); ventricular remodelling (ST2); myonecrosis (hsTnT); and wall stress (NT-proBNP)].
Classification and regression tree (CART) model to predict pulmonary tuberculosis in hospitalized patients.	Tuberculosis (TB) remains a public health issue worldwide. The lack of specific clinical symptoms to diagnose TB makes the correct decision to admit patients to respiratory isolation a difficult task for the clinician. Isolation of patients without the disease is common and increases health costs. Decision models for the diagnosis of TB in patients attending hospitals can increase the quality of care and decrease costs, without the risk of hospital transmission. We present a predictive model for predicting pulmonary TB in hospitalized patients in a high prevalence area in order to contribute to a more rational use of isolation rooms without increasing the risk of transmission.
Predicting recidivism in adolescents with behavior problems using PCL-SV.	Studies show that identifying persistent delinquents on the basis of early antisocial conduct yields a significant error rate. However, evaluating childhood or adolescent psychopathic traits is likely to improve matters in this regard. This study seeks to verify the contribution of psychopathic traits in adolescence to antisocial conduct prediction in early adulthood. To this end, a French version of the Psychopathy Checklist -Screening Version (PCL-SV) adapted to adolescents is used to evaluate psychopathic traits in 27 youths aged 15 to 19 years recruited in youth centres and presenting behavioral problems reaching a clinical threshold. The PCL-SV scores contribute significantly above and beyond indices of delinquent behavior to predict self-reported antisocial conduct 2 years later and, specifically, to predict criminal versatility and violent recidivism. 
Decoding dexterous finger movements in a neural prosthesis model approaching real-world conditions.	Dexterous finger movements can be decoded from neuronal action potentials acquired from a nonhuman primate using a chronically implanted Utah Electrode Array. We have developed an algorithm that can, after training, detect and classify individual and combined finger movements without any a priori knowledge of the data, task, or behavior. The algorithm is based on changes in the firing rates of individual neurons that are tuned for one or more finger movement types. Nine different movement types, which consisted of individual flexions, individual extensions, and combined flexions of the thumb, index finger, and middle finger, were decoded. The algorithm performed reliably on data recorded continuously during movement tasks, including a no-movement state, with an overall average sensitivity and specificity that were both   > 92%. These results demonstrate a viable algorithm for decoding dexterous finger movements under conditions similar to those required for a real-world neural prosthetic application.
Serum markers for predicting significant necroinflammatory activity in patients with chronic hepatitis B.	The aim of this study was to determine the serum markers that predict significant inflammation in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB).
Normative score and cut-off value of the Neck Disability Index.	Neck pain is a common health problem that restricts activities of daily living. The Neck Disability Index (NDI) was developed to assess disability in patients with neck pain. The normative score and the cut-off value are mandatory to assess an individual patient or a certain patient group for clinically important neck pain with disability, by distinguishing it from nonsignificant pain. The objective of the present study was to determine the normative score and the cut-off value of the NDI.
Analysis of using the tongue deviation angle as a warning sign of a stroke.	The symptom of tongue deviation is observed in a stroke or transient ischemic attack. Nevertheless, there is much room for the interpretation of the tongue deviation test. The crucial factor is the lack of an effective quantification method of tongue deviation. If we can quantify the features of the tongue deviation and scientifically verify the relationship between the deviation angle and a stroke, the information provided by the tongue will be helpful in recognizing a warning of a stroke.
Corneal epithelial thickness mapping by Fourier-domain optical coherence tomography in normal and keratoconic eyes.	To map the corneal epithelial thickness with Fourier-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT) and to develop epithelial thickness-based variables for keratoconus detection.
ECG analysis using multiple instance learning for myocardial infarction detection.	This paper presents a useful technique for totally automatic detection of myocardial infarction from patients' ECGs. Due to the large number of heartbeats constituting an ECG and the high cost of having all the heartbeats manually labeled, supervised learning techniques have achieved limited success in ECG classification. In this paper, we first discuss the rationale for applying multiple instance learning (MIL) to automated ECG classification and then propose a new MIL strategy called latent topic MIL, by which ECGs are mapped into a topic space defined by a number of topics identified over all the unlabeled training heartbeats and support vector machine is directly applied to the ECG-level topic vectors. Our experimental results on real ECG datasets from the PTB diagnostic database demonstrate that, compared with existing MIL and supervised learning algorithms, the proposed algorithm is able to automatically detect ECGs with myocardial ischemia without labeling any heartbeats. Moreover, it improves classification quality in terms of both sensitivity and specificity.
Comparison of EyeCam and anterior segment optical coherence tomography in detecting angle closure.	To compare the diagnostic performance of EyeCam (Clarity Medical Systems, Pleasanton, CA, USA) and anterior segment optical coherence tomography (ASOCT, Visante; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA, USA) in detecting angle closure, using gonioscopy as the reference standard.
Diagnosis of moyamoya disease on magnetic resonance imaging: are flow voids in the basal ganglia an essential criterion for definitive diagnosis?	Flow voids in the basal ganglia cannot always be recognized on magnetic resonance imaging, even in patients with typical moyamoya disease. In this report, flow voids in the basal ganglia and cisternal flow voids of the sylvian valley were evaluated in patients with moyamoya disease, and their diagnostic value was verified. A total of 41 consecutive patients with moyamoya disease were included in this analysis. The number of flow voids in the basal ganglia and the sylvian valley were counted on each side by 3 observers. Then the numbers of flow voids were compared between the patients with moyamoya disease and controls. The patients with moyamoya disease had a significantly higher mean number of flow voids in the basal ganglia and the sylvian valley (P < .0001); however, the number of flow voids in the basal ganglia was 0 or 1 in 69 sides (28.0%) in patients with moyamoya disease. Comparative analysis using the area under the receiver operating curve indicated that the evaluation of flow voids in the sylvian valley was significantly superior method to that in the basal ganglia (P < .0001). The cutoff value for the number of cisternal flow voids in the sylvian valley for the diagnosis of moyamoya disease was 6. Based on these findings, we recommend a definitive diagnosis of moyamoya disease should include assessment for abnormal vessels around the terminal portions of the internal carotid arteries. 
Automatic feature extraction and statistical shape model of the AIDS virus spike.	We introduce a method to automatically extract spike features of the AIDS virus imaged through an electron microscope. The AIDS virus spike is the primary target of drug design as it is directly involved in infecting host cells. Our method detects the location of these spikes and extracts a subvolume enclosing the spike. We have achieved a sensitivity of 80% for our best operating range. The extracted spikes are further aligned and combined to build a 4-D statistical shape model, where each voxel in the shape model is assigned a probability density function. Our method is the first fully automated technique that can extract subvolumes of the AIDS virus spike and be used to build a statistical model without the need for any user supervision. We envision that this new tool will significantly enhance the overall process of shape analysis of the AIDS virus spike imaged through the electron microscope. Accurate models of the virus spike will help in the development of better drug design strategies.
Generalized anxiety disorder and the proposed associated symptoms criterion change for DSM-5 in a treatment-seeking sample of anxious youth.	A current proposal for the DSM-5 general anxiety disorder (GAD) definition is to remove fatigue, difficulty concentrating, irritability, and sleep disturbance from the list of associated symptoms, and to require the presence of one of two retained symptoms (restlessness or muscle tension) for diagnosis. Relevant evaluations in youth to support such a change are sparse.
Systematic review of predictive performance of injury severity scoring tools.	Many injury severity scoring tools have been developed over the past few decades. These tools include the Injury Severity Score (ISS), New ISS (NISS), Trauma and Injury Severity Score (TRISS) and International Classification of Diseases (ICD)-based Injury Severity Score (ICISS). Although many studies have endeavored to determine the ability of these tools to predict the mortality of injured patients, their results have been inconsistent. We conducted a systematic review to summarize the predictive performances of these tools and explore the heterogeneity among studies. We defined a relevant article as any research article that reported the area under the Receiver Operating Characteristic curve as a measure of predictive performance. We conducted an online search using MEDLINE and Embase. We evaluated the quality of each relevant article using a quality assessment questionnaire consisting of 10 questions. The total number of positive answers was reported as the quality score of the study. Meta-analysis was not performed due to the heterogeneity among studies. We identified 64 relevant articles with 157 AUROCs of the tools. The median number of positive answers to the questionnaire was 5, ranging from 2 to 8. Less than half of the relevant studies reported the version of the Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) and/or ICD (37.5%). The heterogeneity among the studies could be observed in a broad distribution of crude mortality rates of study data, ranging from 1% to 38%. The NISS was mostly reported to perform better than the ISS when predicting the mortality of blunt trauma patients. The relative performance of the ICSS against the AIS-based tools was inconclusive because of the scarcity of studies. The performance of the ICISS appeared to be unstable because the performance could be altered by the type of formula and survival risk ratios used. In conclusion, high-quality studies were limited. The NISS might perform better in the mortality prediction of blunt injuries than the ISS. Additional studies are required to standardize the derivation of the ICISS and determine the relative performance of the ICISS against the AIS-based tools.
Increased gamma-glutamyl transferase level is associated with absence of coronary collateral vessels in patients with acute coronary syndrome: an observational study.	Elevated serum gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) level has been proposed as a risk factor for coronary artery disease and is associated with poor clinical outcome in acute coronary syndrome (ACS). We aimed to evaluate the relationship between GGT level and presence of coronary collateral vessels (CCV) patients with ACS.
Diagnostic power of the mid-regional pro-atrial natriuretic peptide for heart failure patients with dyspnea: a meta-analysis.	To evaluate the diagnostic performance of the mid-regional portion of the pro-atrial natriuretic peptide (MR-proANP) for heart failure (HF) in dyspnea patients.
Gadofosveset-enhanced MRI for the assessment of rectal cancer lymph nodes: predictive criteria.	To confirm the use of the nodal signal intensity (SI) and the 'chemical shift' artefact as diagnostic criteria for detecting nodal metastases from rectal cancer on gadofosveset contrast-enhanced MRI.
Accuracy of low-dose rubidium-82 myocardial perfusion imaging for detection of coronary artery disease using 3D PET and normal database interpretation.	Our aim was to develop a normal database to be used for quantification of myocardial perfusion and diagnosis of "obstructive coronary artery disease" (CAD) using low-dose rubidium-82 three-dimensional (3D) positron emission tomography (PET)-CT.
Assessment of Helicobacter pylori eradication in patients on NSAID treatment.	In this post-hoc analysis of a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled trial, we measured the sensitivity and specificity of Helicobacter pylori IgG-antibody titer changes, hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stains, immunohistochemical (IHC) stains and culture results in NSAID using patients, following H. pylori eradication therapy or placebo.
The relevance voxel machine (RVoxM): a self-tuning Bayesian model for informative image-based prediction.	This paper presents the relevance voxel machine (RVoxM), a dedicated Bayesian model for making predictions based on medical imaging data. In contrast to the generic machine learning algorithms that have often been used for this purpose, the method is designed to utilize a small number of spatially clustered sets of voxels that are particularly suited for clinical interpretation. RVoxM automatically tunes all its free parameters during the training phase, and offers the additional advantage of producing probabilistic prediction outcomes. We demonstrate RVoxM as a regression model by predicting age from volumetric gray matter segmentations, and as a classification model by distinguishing patients with Alzheimer's disease from healthy controls using surface-based cortical thickness data. Our results indicate that RVoxM yields biologically meaningful models, while providing state-of-the-art predictive accuracy.
Evaluation of an indirect ELISA using a tachyzoite surface antigen SAG1 for diagnosis of Toxoplasma gondii infection in cats.	Toxoplasma gondii infection is very common in cats throughout the world. Most cats are subclinically infected and potentially fatal clinical disease occurs in some of them. The aim of this study is to develop an indirect enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test using an affinity purified tachyzoite surface antigen (SAG1) to detect T. gondii infection in cats. Six sero-negative kittens were used in this study; four kittens received 10(4) T. gondii tachyzoites of NED strain (type III) and the remaining two were used as uninfected controls. Serum samples were collected within 41 days and were evaluated for anti-T. gondii antibodies using indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT) and ELISA method. IgG antibodies were detectable at least from eight days after tachyzoites inoculation and an increasing pattern in both serum ELISA indices (SIns) and IFAT titers were detected. SIns were significantly different in sera of cats presenting different IFAT titers. In order to evaluate the performance of ELISA to detect anti-T. gondii antibodies of naturally infected cats, serum samples were also collected from household and stray cats and evaluated in the same way. IFAT was regarded as the standard test and sensitivity and specificity of the ELISA to detect the infection in naturally infected kittens were analyzed using two-graph receiver operating characteristic (TG-ROC) analysis. An area under curve (AUC) of 0.996 revealed the test as a highly accurate test with relative sensitivity and specificity of 100% and 96% for a cut-off value of 0.10 for SIn.
Validating the stroke-thrombolytic predictive instrument in a population in the United kingdom.	This study aimed to test the explanatory qualities of the Stroke-Thrombolytic Predictive Instrument (S-TPI) when applied to patients treated in routine practice.
Fluctuation analysis of respiratory impedance waveform in asthmatic patients: effect of airway obstruction.	Fluctuation analysis has great potential to contribute to pulmonary clinical science and practice. We evaluated the relationship between asthma and the respiratory impedance recurrence period density entropy (RPDEnZrs) and the variability (SDZrs). A non-invasive and simple protocol for assessing respiratory mechanics during spontaneous breathing was used in a group of 74 subjects with various levels of airway obstruction. Airway obstruction resulted in a reduction in the RPDEnZrs that was significantly correlated with both spirometric indices of airway obstruction (R = 0.48, p < 0.0001) and mean respiratory impedance (R = -0.83, p < 0.0001). These results suggest that the impedance pattern becomes less complex in asthmatic patients, which may explain the reduction in respiratory systems' adaptability to daily life activities. Preliminary evaluations indicate that RPDEnZrs may contribute to the asthma diagnosis, presenting accuracies of 82 and 87 % in patients with moderate and severe airway obstruction, respectively. On the other hand, SDZrs increased with obstruction (p < 0.0001) and was inversely correlated with spirometric indices of obstruction (R = -0.42, p = 0.0003) and directly associated with mean impedance (R = 0.88, p < 0.0001). This analysis contributes to elucidate previous studies and identified respiratory changes in patients with moderate and severe obstruction with an adequate accuracy (85 and 87 %, respectively).
Urinary albumin excretion patterns of patients with cast nephropathy and other monoclonal gammopathy-related kidney diseases.	Multiple myeloma is responsible for a wide variety of renal pathologies. Urinary protein and monoclonal spike cannot be used to diagnose cast nephropathy (CN). Because albuminuria is a hallmark of glomerular disease, this study evaluated the percentage of urinary albumin excretion (%UAE) as a tool to differentiate CN from Ig light chain amyloidosis (AL), light chain deposition disease (LCDD), and acute tubular necrosis (ATN).
Liver stiffness measurement using XL probe in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) by transient elastography is a noninvasive test of liver fibrosis, but cannot be performed in a significant proportion of obese patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate the performance of the new XL probe in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
Plasma soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR) levels in systemic lupus erythematosus.	Soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR) is a biomarker of systemic inflammation. We aimed to characterize plasma suPAR levels in SLE patients.
Serial procalcitonin levels to detect bacteremia in febrile neutropenia.	Our objective was to evaluate serial procalcitonin (PCT) levels compared with an initial PCT level at admission in predicting bacteremia in pediatric febrile neutropenic oncology patients.
Two unconventional risk factors for major adverse cardiovascular events in subjects with sexual dysfunction: low education and reported partner's hypoactive sexual desire in comparison with conventional risk factors.	The classification of subjects as low or high cardiovascular (CV) risk is usually performed by risk engines, based upon multivariate prediction algorithms. However, their accuracy in predicting major adverse CV events (MACEs) is lower in high-risk populations as they take into account only conventional risk factors.
"It takes two to tango": the relational domain in a cohort of subjects with erectile dysfunction (ED).	The relational domain of erectile dysfunction (ED) is difficult to investigate in a clinical setting. We developed and validated SIEDY, a 13-item structured interview, that evaluates, besides the organic (Scale 1) and intra-psychic (Scale 3) domains, also the relational one (Scale 2). We previously established a pathological threshold for SIEDY Scale 1 and 3.
Two microRNA panels to discriminate three subtypes of lung carcinoma in bronchial brushing specimens.	Effective treatment for lung cancer requires accuracy in subclassification of carcinoma subtypes.
Prognostic value of plasma human -defensin 2 level on short-term clinical outcomes in patients with community-acquired pneumonia: a preliminary study.	Plasma level of human -defensin 2 (HBD-2), noted to play a role in lung inflammatory diseases, is elevated in patients with pneumonia.
A comprehensive genetic approach for improving prediction of skin cancer risk in humans.	Prediction of genetic risk for disease is needed for preventive and personalized medicine. Genome-wide association studies have found unprecedented numbers of variants associated with complex human traits and diseases. However, these variants explain only a small proportion of genetic risk. Mounting evidence suggests that many traits, relevant to public health, are affected by large numbers of small-effect genes and that prediction of genetic risk to those traits and diseases could be improved by incorporating large numbers of markers into whole-genome prediction (WGP) models. We developed a WGP model incorporating thousands of markers for prediction of skin cancer risk in humans. We also considered other ways of incorporating genetic information into prediction models, such as family history or ancestry (using principal components, PCs, of informative markers). Prediction accuracy was evaluated using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) estimated in a cross-validation. Incorporation of genetic information (i.e., familial relationships, PCs, or WGP) yielded a significant increase in prediction accuracy: from an AUC of 0.53 for a baseline model that accounted for nongenetic covariates to AUCs of 0.58 (pedigree), 0.62 (PCs), and 0.64 (WGP). In summary, prediction of skin cancer risk could be improved by considering genetic information and using a large number of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in a WGP model, which allows for the detection of patterns of genetic risk that are above and beyond those that can be captured using family history. We discuss avenues for improving prediction accuracy and speculate on the possible use of WGP to prospectively identify individuals at high risk.
Navigating the unexplored seascape of pre-miRNA candidates in single-genome approaches.	The computational search for novel microRNA (miRNA) precursors often involves some sort of structural analysis with the aim of identifying which type of structures are prone to being recognized and processed by the cellular miRNA-maturation machinery. A natural way to tackle this problem is to perform clustering over the candidate structures along with known miRNA precursor structures. Mixed clusters allow then the identification of candidates that are similar to known precursors. Given the large number of pre-miRNA candidates that can be identified in single-genome approaches, even after applying several filters for precursor robustness and stability, a conventional structural clustering approach is unfeasible.
Clinical manifestations of acute appendicitis in hemodialysis patients.	Acute appendicitis has been suggested to be more aggravated in hemodialysis (HD) patients in comparison to non-HD patients but only scanty evidence demonstrates the conditions.
Assessment of liver volume variation to evaluate liver function.	In order to assess the value of liver volumetry in cirrhosis and acute liver failure (ALF) patients, we explored the correlation between hepatic volume and severity of the hepatic diseases. The clinical data of 48 cirrhosis patients with 60 normal controls and 39 ALF patients were collected. Computed tomography-derived liver volume (CTLV) and body surface area (BSA) of normal controls were calculated to get a regression formula for standard liver volume (SLV) and BSA. Then CTLV and SLV of all patients were calculated and grouped by Child-Turcotte-Pugh classification for cirrhosis patients and assigned according to prognosis of ALF patients for further comparison. It turned out that the mean liver volume of the control group was 1,058  337 cm(3). SLV was correlated with BSA according to the regression formula. The hepatic volume of cirrhosis patients in Child A, B level was not reduced, but in Child C level it was significantly reduced with the lowest liver volume index (CTLV/SLV). Likewise, in the death group of ALF patients, the volume index was significantly lower than that of the survival group. Based on volumetric study, we proposed an ROC (receiver operating characteristic) analysis to predict the prognosis of ALF patients that CTLV/SLV < 83.9% indicates a poor prognosis. In conclusion, the CTLV/SLV ratio, which reflects liver volume variations, correlates well with the liver function and progression of cirrhosis and ALF. It is also a very useful marker for predicting the prognosis of ALF.
Predicting in-hospital mortality among critically ill patients with end-stage liver disease.	Critically-ill patients with end-stage liver disease (ESLD) are at high risk for death during intensive care unit hospitalization, and currently available prognostic models have limited accuracy in this population. We aimed to identify variables associated with in-hospital mortality among critically ill ESLD patients and to develop and validate a simple, parsimonious model for bedside use.
The Verbal Clock Test: preliminary validation of a brief, vision- and motor-free measure of executive function in a clinical sample.	Assessment of executive functions is frequently time-consuming, and although some brief measures exist they are subject to problems associated with limited education, culture of origin, impairments of motor or visual systems, and tolerability. Preliminary validation of a newly developed measure, the Verbal Clock Test (VCT), was conducted in a clinical sample of 294 patients who underwent neuropsychological evaluation. The evidence supports the interpretation of VCT scores as demonstrating construct validity, criterion-related validity, and sound internal consistency. Performance does not vary substantially with gender or mood, and variability associated with age, education, and ethnicity is modest. Confounding effects of motor and visual impairments are eliminated. Initial data suggest the VCT represents a reasonable method of assessing abstract reasoning and concept formation when clinical circumstances limit the use of currently available measures.
Prognostic significance of circulating tumor cell count in patients with metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer.	To analyze the correlation between circulating tumor cell (CTC) levels and clinicopathologic parameters (prostate-specific antigen level, Gleason score, and TNM stage) in patients with metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (PCa) and to establish its prognostic value in overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS).
Elevated serum IL-8 is associated with the presence of hepatocellular carcinoma and independently predicts survival.	Tumor immune responses have prognostic importance to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Serum cytokines may differentiate HCC patients from cirrhotic patients or have prognostic significance. Serum IL-8 was elevated in 90 HCC patients compared to 180 cirrhotic controls, whereas IL-1, IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-7, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15, IL-17, IL-21, and VEGF were similar. IL-8 predicted HCC presence with an area under the receiver-operator curve (ROC) of 0.68. HCC patients with highest IL-8 had worse survival. Multivariate analysis showed that high IL-8 (HR 2.15; 95%CI:1.21-3.74) and stage (HR 1.92; 95%CI:1.22-3.97) independently predicted mortality; while viral etiology was protective (HR 0.69; 95%CI:0.41-0.98). Therefore, HCC IL-8 mediated events may be worthy of future investigation.
A model for the prediction of a successful stress-first Tc-99m SPECT MPI.	Stress-only Tc-99m MPI saves time, radiation exposure, and a normal study has a benign prognosis. However, a stress-first protocol is relatively labor intensive requiring pre-test screening for suitability and early post-stress image review to determine the need for rest imaging. The purpose of this study was to develop a simple clinical score used prior to a patient's myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) study to determine if they should undergo a stress-first protocol.
Risks factors and regression model for risk calculation of anesthesiologic intervention in topical and intracameral cataract surgery.	To determine risk factors for anesthesiologist intervention during routine cataract surgery performed with topical and intracameral anesthesia and establish a regression model to identify high-risk patients.
Serodiagnosis of Mycobacterium avium complex pulmonary disease in the USA.	Diagnosis of Mycobacterium avium complex pulmonary disease (MAC-PD) can be difficult. A previous study from Japan reported the usefulness of a serodiagnostic test for MAC-PD. The objective of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of the test in similar patients in the USA. 100 patients with known or suspected MAC-PD and 52 healthy volunteers were enrolled into the study at National Jewish Health, Denver, CO, USA. Serum glycopeptidolipid core immunoglobulin A antibody levels were measured with an enzyme immunoassay (EIA) kit and routine clinical evaluations were performed. The patients were divided into two groups based on clinical evaluation: 87 patients with MAC-PD that met American Thoracic Society criteria, and 13 who did not meet the criteria. The sensitivity and specificity (cut-off point 0.3 UmL(-1)) of the serodiagnostic test for diagnosing MAC-PD were 70.1% and 93.9%, respectively. Among the 44 patients in the MAC-PD group with two or more positive sputum cultures within the previous 6 months, sensitivity was 81.8%. The EIA kit demonstrated good sensitivity and specificity for the identification of MAC-PD, particularly in patients with two or more positive cultures, and may be useful for rapid MAC-PD diagnosis. 
Performance evaluation of algorithms for the classification of metabolic 1H NMR fingerprints.	Nontargeted metabolite fingerprinting is increasingly applied to biomedical classification. The choice of classification algorithm may have a considerable impact on outcome. In this study, employing nested cross-validation for assessing predictive performance, six binary classification algorithms in combination with different strategies for data-driven feature selection were systematically compared on five data sets of urine, serum, plasma, and milk one-dimensional fingerprints obtained by proton nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Support Vector Machines and Random Forests combined with t-score-based feature filtering performed well on most data sets, whereas the performance of the other tested methods varied between data sets.
Predictive value of the eosinophil counts in the biological diagnosis of lymphatic filariasis in French Polynesia.	Lymphatic filariasis is common in many tropical and subtropical areas and is a major public health issue in south Pacific islands. In endemic areas, most infected individuals are asymptomatic but may harbor microfilariae or filarial antigens in their peripheral blood. Microscopy remains the reference diagnostic tool for the identification of microfilariae but is weakly sensitive. The diagnosis of Wuchereria bancrofti infection was dramatically altered by the development of filarial antigen tests, which are easy to perform but expensive for routine use. Lymphatic filariasis is responsible for acquired eosinophilia and blood eosinophil count is commonly used as a screening tool in endemic areas.
CDK-EPI equation may be the most proper formula based on creatinine in determining glomerular filtration rate in Chinese patients with chronic kidney disease.	To compare the performance of the Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration (CDK-EPI) equation, the 24-h creatinine clearance rate (24hCCr), Cockroft-Gault (C-G) formula, the abbreviated Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (aMDRD) equation, the modified Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (mMDRD) equation in determining glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in Chinese patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and detect the most proper method to measure GFR in clinical practice.
PanelComposer: a web-based panel construction tool for multivariate analysis of disease biomarker candidates.	Measuring and evaluating diagnostic efficiency is important in biomarker discovery and validation. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve is a graphical plot for assessing the performance of a classifier or predictor that can be used to test the sensitivity and specificity of diagnostic biomarkers. In this study, we describe PanelComposer, a Web-based software tool that uses statistical results from proteomic expression data and validates biomarker candidates based on ROC curves and the area under the ROC curve (AUC) values using a logistic regression model and provides an ordered list that includes ROC graphs and AUC values for proteins (individually or in combination). This tool allows users to easily compare and assess the effectiveness and diagnostic efficiency of single or multiprotein biomarker candidates. PanelComposer is available publicly at  http://panelcomposer.proteomix.org/  and is compatible with major Web browsers.
Is peak concentration needed in therapeutic drug monitoring of vancomycin? A pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic analysis in patients with methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus pneumonia.	We analyzed the pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic relationship of vancomycin to determine the drug exposure parameters that correlate with the efficacy and nephrotoxicity of vancomycin in patients with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus pneumonia and evaluated the need to use peak concentration in therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM).
Diagnostic validity across racial and ethnic groups in the assessment of adolescent DSM-IV disorders.	We examine differential validity of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) diagnoses assessed by the fully-structured Composite International Diagnostic Interview Version 3.0 (CIDI) among Latino, non-Latino Black, and non-Latino White adolescents in comparison to gold standard diagnoses derived from the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-age Children (K-SADS). Results are based on the National Comorbidity Survey Replication Adolescent Supplement, a national US survey of adolescent mental health. Clinicians re-interviewed 347 adolescent/parent dyads with the K-SADS. Sensitivity and/or specificity of CIDI diagnoses varied significantly by ethnicity/race for four of ten disorders. Modifications to algorithms sometimes reduced bias in prevalence estimates, but at the cost of reducing individual-level concordance. These findings document the importance of assessing fully-structured diagnostic instruments for differential accuracy in ethnic/racial subgroups.
The influence of impression management scales on the Personality Assessment Inventory in the epilepsy monitoring unit.	The Somatic Complaints scale (SOM) and Conversion subscale (SOM-C) of the Personality Assessment Inventory perform best in classifying psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES) from epileptic seizures (ES); however, the impact of positive impression management (PIM) and negative impression management (NIM) scales on SOM and SOM-C classification has not been examined. We studied 187 patients from an epilepsy monitoring unit with confirmed PNES or ES. On SOM, the best cut score was 72.5 T when PIM was elevated and 69.5 T when there was no bias. On SOM-C, when PIM was elevated, the best cut score was 67.5 T and 76.5 T when there was no bias. Negative impression management elevations (n=9) were too infrequent to analyze separately. Despite similarities in classification accuracy, there were differences in sensitivity and specificity with and without PIM, impacting positive and negative predictive values. The presence of PIM bias generally increases positive predictive power of SOM and SOM-C but decreases negative predictive power.
The effect of cycloplegia on the lenstar and the IOLMaster biometry.	To evaluate the effect of cycloplegia on ocular biometry measurements and intraocular lens (IOL) power calculation using the Lenstar LS900 (Haag-Streit AG, Koeniz, Switzerland) and the IOLMaster (Carl Zeiss Meditec AG, Jena, Germany) biometers and to assess the agreement between the devices.
Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin is a sensitive biomarker for the early diagnosis of acute rejection after living-donor kidney transplantation.	Early diagnosis of kidney allograft dysfunction is crucial for the management and long-term survival of transplanted kidneys. We investigated whether neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), interleukin 18 (IL-18), and liver-type fatty acid-binding protein (L-FABP) are capable of being used as novel biomarkers of acute kidney allograft dysfunction.
Risk factors predicting the successful function and use of autogenous arteriovenous fistulae for hemodialysis.	For patients with end-stage renal failure hemodialysis with an autogenous arteriovenous fistula (AVF) has proven to be the ideal vascular access.
The predictive validity of OMPQ on the rehabilitation outcomes for patients with acute and subacute non-specific LBP in a Chinese population.	Early screening of physical and psychosocial risk factors has been advocated as a way to identify low back pain (LBP) patients who may develop chronic disability. This study evaluated the predictive validity of a Chinese version of the Orebro Musculoskeletal Pain Questionnaire (OMPQ) in identifying LBP patients at risk of developing poor return-to-work (RTW) outcomes.
Determinants of patient survival rate after implantation of a cardioverter-defibrillator without resynchronisation capability.	Proper selection of patients at high risk for sudden cardiac death (SCD) and increasing use of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICD) may contribute to improved survival among patients at the highest SCD risk.
Time dependent ROC curves for the estimation of true prognostic capacity of microarray data.	Microarray data can be used to identify prognostic signatures based on time-to-event data. The analysis of microarrays is often associated with overfitting and many papers have dealt with this issue. However, little attention has been paid to incomplete time-to-event data (truncated and censored follow-up). We have adapted the 0.632+ bootstrap estimator for the evaluation of time-dependent ROC curves. The interpretation of ROC-based results is well-established among the scientific and medical community. Moreover, the results do not depend on the incidence of the event, as opposed to many other prognostic statistics. Here, we have tested this methodology by simulations. We have illustrated its utility by analyzing a data set of diffuse large-B-cell lymphoma patients. Our results demonstrate the well-adapted properties of the 0.632+ ROC-based approach to evaluate the true prognostic capacity of a microarray-based signature. This method has been implemented in an R package ROCt632.
Risk models to predict chronic kidney disease and its progression: a systematic review.	Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is common, and associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease and end-stage renal disease, which are potentially preventable through early identification and treatment of individuals at risk. Although risk factors for occurrence and progression of CKD have been identified, their utility for CKD risk stratification through prediction models remains unclear. We critically assessed risk models to predict CKD and its progression, and evaluated their suitability for clinical use.
Relation of pulse pressure to long-distance gait speed in community-dwelling older adults: findings from the LIFE-P study.	Reduced gait speed is associated with falls, late-life disability, hospitalization/institutionalization and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Aging is also accompanied by a widening of pulse pressure (PP) that contributes to ventricular-vascular uncoupling. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that PP is associated with long-distance gait speed in community-dwelling older adults in the Lifestyle Interventions and Independence for Elders Pilot (LIFE-P) study.
Reliability and validity of the KIPPPI: an early detection tool for psychosocial problems in toddlers.	The KIPPPI (Brief Instrument Psychological and Pedagogical Problem Inventory) is a Dutch questionnaire that measures psychosocial and pedagogical problems in 2-year olds and consists of a KIPPPI Total score, Wellbeing scale, Competence scale, and Autonomy scale. This study examined the reliability, validity, screening accuracy and clinical application of the KIPPPI.
Interactogeneous: disease gene prioritization using heterogeneous networks and full topology scores.	Disease gene prioritization aims to suggest potential implications of genes in disease susceptibility. Often accomplished in a guilt-by-association scheme, promising candidates are sorted according to their relatedness to known disease genes. Network-based methods have been successfully exploiting this concept by capturing the interaction of genes or proteins into a score. Nonetheless, most current approaches yield at least some of the following limitations: (1) networks comprise only curated physical interactions leading to poor genome coverage and density, and bias toward a particular source; (2) scores focus on adjacencies (direct links) or the most direct paths (shortest paths) within a constrained neighborhood around the disease genes, ignoring potentially informative indirect paths; (3) global clustering is widely applied to partition the network in an unsupervised manner, attributing little importance to prior knowledge; (4) confidence weights and their contribution to edge differentiation and ranking reliability are often disregarded. We hypothesize that network-based prioritization related to local clustering on graphs and considering full topology of weighted gene association networks integrating heterogeneous sources should overcome the above challenges. We term such a strategy Interactogeneous. We conducted cross-validation tests to assess the impact of network sources, alternative path inclusion and confidence weights on the prioritization of putative genes for 29 diseases. Heat diffusion ranking proved the best prioritization method overall, increasing the gap to neighborhood and shortest paths scores mostly on single source networks. Heterogeneous associations consistently delivered superior performance over single source data across the majority of methods. Results on the contribution of confidence weights were inconclusive. Finally, the best Interactogeneous strategy, heat diffusion ranking and associations from the STRING database, was used to prioritize genes for Parkinson's disease. This method effectively recovered known genes and uncovered interesting candidates which could be linked to pathogenic mechanisms of the disease.
Hearing impairment in a tertiary-care-level population of Mexican rheumatoid arthritis patients.	The objectives of this study were to assess characteristics of hearing impairment (HI) in Mexican Mestizo patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
The Work Instability Scale predicts absenteeism in people with gout and suggests a higher risk for those in manual occupations.	Gout occurs in working-age people and may be associated with significant work disability. There are no longitudinal studies to examine risk factors for work disability in people with gout.
The Laboratory Risk Indicator for Necrotizing Fasciitis score for discernment of necrotizing fasciitis originated from Vibrio vulnificus infections.	The Laboratory Risk Indicator for Necrotizing Fasciitis (LRINEC) score has been verified as a useful diagnostic tool for detecting necrotizing fasciitis (NF). Its application, however, is mainly for NF types I and II. The practical relevance of the LRINEC score for Vibro vulnificus-related skin and soft tissue infection (SSTI) was hardly ever investigated. The aim of this study was to assess the applicability of the LRINEC scoring system and to identify NF-predicting factors in patients with V. vulnificus-caused SSTI.
The value of serum fibrinogen level in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis.	The aim of this study was to investigate the importance of serum fibrinogen level in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis.
The use of Stunkard's figure rating scale to identify underweight and overweight in Chinese adolescents.	To compare the performance of Stunkard's current body size (CBS) with self-reported body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC) and waist to stature ratio (WSR) in predicting weight status in Chinese adolescents, and to determine the CBS cutoffs for overweight/obesity and underweight.
Comparison of topcon optical coherence tomography and ultrasound pachymetry.	To establish within-rater repeatability and minimum measurements required for reliable assessment of central corneal thickness (CCT) using Topcon three-dimensional OCT-2000 (Topcon Medical Systems, Oakland, NJ) Fourier-domain optical coherence tomography (FD-OCT) and to test agreement against ultrasound pachymetry (USP).
An elevated arterial enhancement fraction is associated with clinical and imaging indices of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis.	The objective of this study was to determine whether arterial enhancement fraction (AEF) is associated with the degree of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with chronic liver disease.
Accuracy of diabetic retinopathy screening by trained non-physician graders using non-mydriatic fundus camera.	We compared the agreement of diabetic retinopathy (DR) assessment between trained non-physician graders (NPGs) and family physicians (FPs) in a primary healthcare setting.
Diffusion-weighted MR imaging of the breast: comparison of apparent diffusion coefficient values of normal breast tissue with benign and malignant breast lesions.	The specificity of conventional magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is lower than its high sensitivity. Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), based on alterations in the microscopic motion of water molecules, promises improved specificity for breast MR imaging. In this study, we aimed to determine the diagnostic potential of DWI to differentiate between benign and malignant breast lesions and normal breast tissue.
Validation of the Innsbruck REM sleep behavior disorder inventory.	A diagnosis of definite REM sleep behavior disorder requires both a positive history for REM sleep behavior disorder and polysomnographic demonstration of REM sleep without atonia. To improve and facilitate screening for REM sleep behavior disorder, there is a need for simple clinical tools with sufficient sensitivity and specificity for the identification of subjects with probable REM sleep behavior disorder. We developed a short REM sleep behavior disorder screening questionnaire with 7 REM sleep behavior disorder- and 2 non-REM sleep behavior disorder-specific control items and performed a validation study in 70 REM sleep behavior disorder subjects and 140 sleep disorder controls. Response patterns to all 7 REM sleep behavior disorder-specific items differed between REM sleep behavior disorder and non-REM sleep behavior disorder patients (all P < 0.05), whereas the 2 non-REM sleep behavior disorder-specific control items did not differentiate between REM sleep behavior disorder and non-REM sleep behavior disorder (all P > .05). In 5 of the 7 REM sleep behavior disorder-specific items, AUC was greater than 0.700. These 5 items were included in the Innsbruck REM sleep behavior disorder inventory. In this questionnaire, a cutoff of 0.25 (number of positive symptoms divided by number of answered questions) had a sensitivity of 0.914 and a specificity of 0.857 for both idiopathic and Parkinson's-related REM sleep behavior disorder (AUC, 0.886). The Innsbruck REM sleep behavior disorder inventory is a promising, easy-to-use, short screening tool for REM sleep behavior disorder with excellent sensitivity and specificity for both idiopathic and Parkinson's-related REM sleep behavior disorder.
A novel approach to segment and classify regional lymph nodes on computed tomography images.	Morphology of lymph nodal metastasis is critical for diagnosis and prognosis of cancer patients. However, accurate prediction of lymph node type based on morphological information is rarely available due to lack of pathological validation. To obtain correct morphological information, lymph nodes must be segmented from computed tomography (CT) image accurately. In this paper we described a novel approach to segment and predict the status of lymph nodes from CT images and confirmed the diagnostic performance by clinical pathological results. We firstly removed noise and preserved edge details using a revised nonlinear diffusion equation, and secondly we used a repulsive-force-based snake method to segment the lymph nodes. Morphological measurements for the characterization of the node status were obtained from the segmented node image. These measurements were further selected to derive a highly representative set of node status, called feature vector. Finally, classical classification scheme based on support vector machine model was employed to simulate the prediction of nodal status. Experiments on real clinical rectal cancer data showed that the prediction performance with the proposed framework is highly consistent with pathological results. Therefore, this novel algorithm is promising for status prediction of lymph nodes.
Patterns of patient-ventilator asynchrony as predictors of prolonged mechanical ventilation.	Patient-ventilator asynchrony has been associated with adverse outcomes. The largest body of investigation has focused on ineffective ventilator triggering. Nevertheless, the effect of other patterns of asynchrony on patient outcomes is unknown. The purpose of this study was to assess the performance of specific patterns of asynchrony in their ability to predict prolonged mechanical ventilation. Patients mechanically ventilated within 48 hours of intensive care unit admission were included. Subjects with tracheostomy, mechanical ventilation dependency and treatment with neuromuscular blockers were excluded. Asynchrony patterns were collected on daily evaluations for three days. Analysed patterns were missed, double and auto-triggering, dish-out and overshoot of the pressure waveform, delayed termination and auto-positive end-expiratory pressure. Pattern-specific and composite asynchrony indices were calculated. Demographic data, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) II, PaO2/FiO2, positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) and Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale were collected. Receiver operating characteristic curves to assess the ability of each index to predict prolonged mechanical ventilation were constructed. Twenty-eight patients were deemed eligible. The average age was 5417, with 71% of male gender. APACHE II, PaO2/FiO2 and PEEP were 187, 249117 and 5.82.4 respectively. Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale was -3.11.3. The average number of days on mechanical ventilation was 5.46.5. Areas under the curve (AUC) for missed and double-triggering indices were 0.660.12 and 0.600.12 respectively. AUC for the dish-out index was 0.880.09. AUC for overshoot, delay termination and composite indexes were 0.550.12, 0.620.12 and 0.700.10 respectively.  Dish-out index is the best predictor of prolonged mechanical ventilation, compared with other patterns of patient-ventilator asynchrony.
Performance of APACHE III over time in Australia and New Zealand: a retrospective cohort study.	The Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) III-j model has been used for benchmarking intensive care unit (ICU) outcomes in Australia and New Zealand for over a decade. This study assessed performance of the APACHE III-j model in adult patients admitted to Australasian ICUs during a ten-year period. Data were extracted from the Australian and New Zealand Intensive Care Society Adult Patient Database. Performance of APACHE III-j at different time points and within different age strata was evaluated by dividing the whole cohort into five 'two-year' groups. Calibration and discrimination were assessed by the Brier score, Hosmer-Lemeshow C and H statistics, Standardised Mortality Ratio (SMR), Cox calibration regression, calibration curves and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC). Model performance within diagnostic categories was evaluated.   Between 1 January 2000 and 31 December 2009, 558,585 ICU admissions which met inclusion criteria were included in the analysis. The mean (standard deviation) age was 60.8 (18.4) years and 58.3% were male. Overall observed mortality was 12.6%. The mean (standard deviation) APACHE III-j predicted mortality was 14.5% (21.8). Although discrimination (as measured by AUROC) was preserved over time, all other markers of model performance showed deterioration. There was a significant decrease in SMR in eight of ten most common diagnoses examined.  This study demonstrates that performance of APACHE III-j model has deteriorated in Australasian hospitals and there is now a clear need for an updated modelling approach to improve mortality prediction, performance monitoring and quality of research undertaken in Australian and New Zealand ICUs.
Prediction of early HBeAg seroconversion by decreased titers of HBeAg in the serum combined with increased grades of lobular inflammation in the liver.	Hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) seroconversion is an important hallmark in the natural course of chronic hepatitis B. This study was designed to predict early HBeAg seroconversion within 1 year, by not only biochemical and virological markers, but also pathological parameters in patients with chronic hepatitis B.
Clinimetric properties of the EuroQol-5D in patients with chronic low back pain.	Clinimetric properties of the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) in patients with nonspecific chronic low back pain (CLBP) are largely unknown.
Validating the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale for Children in Rwanda.	We assessed the validity of the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale for Children (CES-DC) as a screen for depression in Rwandan children and adolescents. Although the CES-DC is widely used for depression screening in high-income countries, its validity in low-income and culturally diverse settings, including sub-Saharan Africa, is unknown.
Effects of white rice, brown rice and germinated brown rice on antioxidant status of type 2 diabetic rats.	Oxidative stress is implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications, and can be increased by diet like white rice (WR). Though brown rice (BR) and germinated brown rice (GBR) have high antioxidant potentials as a result of their bioactive compounds, reports of their effects on oxidative stress-related conditions such as type 2 diabetes are lacking. We hypothesized therefore that if BR and GBR were to improve antioxidant status, they would be better for rice consuming populations instead of the commonly consumed WR that is known to promote oxidative stress. This will then provide further reasons why less consumption of WR should be encouraged. We studied the effects of GBR on antioxidant status in type 2 diabetic rats, induced using a high-fat diet and streptozotocin injection, and also evaluated the effects of WR, BR and GBR on catalase and superoxide dismutase genes. As dietary components, BR and GBR improved glycemia and kidney hydroxyl radical scavenging activities, and prevented the deterioration of total antioxidant status in type 2 diabetic rats. Similarly, GBR preserved liver enzymes, as well as serum creatinine. There seem to be evidence that upregulation of superoxide dismutase gene may likely be an underlying mechanism for antioxidant effects of BR and GBR. Our results provide insight into the effects of different rice types on antioxidant status in type 2 diabetes. The results also suggest that WR consumption, contrary to BR and GBR, may worsen antioxidant status that may lead to more damage by free radicals. From the data so far, the antioxidant effects of BR and GBR are worth studying further especially on a long term to determine their effects on development of oxidative stress-related problems, which WR consumption predisposes to.
Protein profiling of blood samples from patients with hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer by surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry.	Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer (HLRCC) is an extremely  rare syndrome with autosomal dominant inheritance. HLRCC is characterized by a predisposition to leiomyomas of the skin and the uterus as well as renal cell carcinoma. The disease-related gene has been identified as fumarate hydratase (fumarase, FH), which encodes an enzyme involved in the mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid cycle. Protein profiling may give some insight into the molecular pathways of HLRCC. Therefore, we performed protein profiling of blood samples from HLRCC patients, their family members, and healthy volunteers, using surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF MS) coupled with IMAC-Cu chips. For hierarchical clustering analysis, we used the 45 peaks that revealed significant differences in  single-marker analysis over the range from 1500 to 15,000 m/z. Heat map analysis based on the results of clustering distinguished the HLRCC kindred from non-HLRCC subjects with a sensitivity of 94% and a specificity of 90%. SELDI-TOF MS profiling of blood samples can be applied to identify patients with HLRCC and to assess specific molecular mechanisms involved in this condition.
Nocturnal penile erections: the role of RigiScan in the diagnosis of vascular erectile dysfunction.	To determine the etiology of cases with organic erectile dysfunction (ED), invasive techniques are needed that can induce patient anxiety and disturb test results.
The visibility of secondary caries under bonding agents with two different imaging modalities.	This study investigated the visibility of secondary caries lesions associated with two different adhesive systems of composite restorations (Optibond Solo Plus and Clearfil SE Bond) using a conventional dental x-ray film (Kodak D Speed) and a digital system (Digora) based on storage phosphor-plate technology for detection of secondary caries. For imaging techniques and adhesive systems, false positive scores were high. Intraobserver agreements ranged between 0.432 and 0.778, while interobserver agreements for the readings ranged 0.321-0.731 and 0.411-0.701, respectively. No statistical difference was found between the Az (area under curve) values obtained from PSP (photostimulable storage phosphor) and film images with the exception of the second observer's first reading for total etch adhesive system (Optibond Solo Plus) (p=0.0258). Furthermore, no statistical difference was found between both the bonding systems assessed (p>0.05). Adhesive materials should also have enough radiopacity to facilitate diagnosis of secondary caries.
Multiparametric analysis of cell-free DNA in melanoma patients.	Cell-free DNA in blood (cfDNA) represents a promising biomarker for cancer diagnosis. Total cfDNA concentration showed a scarce discriminatory power between patients and controls. A higher specificity in cancer diagnosis can be achieved by detecting tumor specific alterations in cfDNA, such as DNA integrity, genetic and epigenetic modifications.The aim of the present study was to identify a sequential multi-marker panel in cfDNA able to increase the predictive capability in the diagnosis of cutaneous melanoma in comparison with each single marker alone. To this purpose, we tested total cfDNA concentration, cfDNA integrity, BRAF(V600E) mutation and RASSF1A promoter methylation associated to cfDNA in a series of 76 melanoma patients and 63 healthy controls. The chosen biomarkers were assayed in cfDNA samples by qPCR. Comparison of biomarkers distribution in cases and controls was performed by a logistic regression model in both univariate and multivariate analysis. The predictive capability of each logistic model was investigated by means of the area under the ROC curve (AUC). To aid the reader to interpret the value of the AUC, values between 0.6 and 0.7, between 0.71 and 0.8 and greater than 0.8 were considered as indicating a weak predictive, satisfactory and good predictive capacity, respectively. The AUC value for each biomarker (univariate logistic model) was weak/satisfactory ranging between 0.64 (BRAF(V600E)) to 0.85 (total cfDNA). A good overall predictive capability for the final logistic model was found with an AUC of 0.95. The highest predictive capability was given by total cfDNA (AUC:0.86) followed by integrity index 180/67 (AUC:0.90) and methylated RASSF1A (AUC:0.89).An approach based on the simultaneous determination of three biomarkers (total cfDNA, integrity index 180/67 and methylated RASSF1A) could improve the diagnostic performance in melanoma.
"Proof-of-concept" evaluation of an automated sputum smear microscopy system for tuberculosis diagnosis.	"TBDx" is an innovative smear microscopy system that automatically loads slides onto a microscope, focuses and digitally captures images and then classifies smears as positive or negative using computerised algorithms.
Spectro-temporal weighting of loudness.	Real-world sounds like speech or traffic noise typically exhibit spectro-temporal variability because the energy in different spectral regions evolves differently as a sound unfolds in time. However, it is currently not well understood how the energy in different spectral and temporal portions contributes to loudness. This study investigated how listeners weight different temporal and spectral components of a sound when judging its overall loudness. Spectral weights were measured for the combination of three loudness-matched narrowband noises with different center frequencies. To measure temporal weights, 1,020-ms stimuli were presented, which randomly changed in level every 100 ms. Temporal weights were measured for each narrowband noise separately, and for a broadband noise containing the combination of the three noise bands. Finally, spectro-temporal weights were measured with stimuli where the level of the three narrowband noises randomly and independently changed every 100 ms. The data consistently showed that (i) the first 300 ms of the sounds had a greater influence on overall loudness perception than later temporal portions (primacy effect), and (ii) the lowest noise band contributed significantly more to overall loudness than the higher bands. The temporal weights did not differ between the three frequency bands. Notably, the spectral weights and temporal weights estimated from the conditions with only spectral or only temporal variability were very similar to the corresponding weights estimated in the spectro-temporal condition. The results indicate that the temporal and the spectral weighting of the loudness of a time-varying sound are independent processes. The spectral weights remain constant across time, and the temporal weights do not change across frequency. The results are discussed in the context of current loudness models.
PROSPER: an integrated feature-based tool for predicting protease substrate cleavage sites.	The ability to catalytically cleave protein substrates after synthesis is fundamental for all forms of life. Accordingly, site-specific proteolysis is one of the most important post-translational modifications. The key to understanding the physiological role of a protease is to identify its natural substrate(s). Knowledge of the substrate specificity of a protease can dramatically improve our ability to predict its target protein substrates, but this information must be utilized in an effective manner in order to efficiently identify protein substrates by in silico approaches. To address this problem, we present PROSPER, an integrated feature-based server for in silico identification of protease substrates and their cleavage sites for twenty-four different proteases. PROSPER utilizes established specificity information for these proteases (derived from the MEROPS database) with a machine learning approach to predict protease cleavage sites by using different, but complementary sequence and structure characteristics. Features used by PROSPER include local amino acid sequence profile, predicted secondary structure, solvent accessibility and predicted native disorder. Thus, for proteases with known amino acid specificity, PROSPER provides a convenient, pre-prepared tool for use in identifying protein substrates for the enzymes. Systematic prediction analysis for the twenty-four proteases thus far included in the database revealed that the features we have included in the tool strongly improve performance in terms of cleavage site prediction, as evidenced by their contribution to performance improvement in terms of identifying known cleavage sites in substrates for these enzymes. In comparison with two state-of-the-art prediction tools, PoPS and SitePrediction, PROSPER achieves greater accuracy and coverage. To our knowledge, PROSPER is the first comprehensive server capable of predicting cleavage sites of multiple proteases within a single substrate sequence using machine learning techniques. It is freely available at http://lightning.med.monash.edu.au/PROSPER/.
Performance of thirteen clinical rules to distinguish bacterial and presumed viral meningitis in Vietnamese children.	Successful outcomes from bacterial meningitis require rapid antibiotic treatment; however, unnecessary treatment of viral meningitis may lead to increased toxicities and expense. Thus, improved diagnostics are required to maximize treatment and minimize side effects and cost. Thirteen clinical decision rules have been reported to identify bacterial from viral meningitis. However, few rules have been tested and compared in a single study, while several rules are yet to be tested by independent researchers or in pediatric populations. Thus, simultaneous test and comparison of these rules are required to enable clinicians to select an optimal diagnostic rule for bacterial meningitis in settings and populations similar to ours.
Diagnostic approach to urinary tract infections in male general practice patients: a national surveillance study.	Diagnostic urinary tract infection (UTI) studies have primarily been performed among female patients.
The role of serum testosterone to prostate-specific antigen ratio as a predictor of prostate cancer risk.	We analyzed the ratio of serum total testosterone (sTT) to prostate-specific antigen (PSA) as a predictor of prostate cancer risk. One-hundred-four consecutive men with a normal digital rectal examination and a serum PSA level of 2.5-10 ng/ml underwent transrectal ultrasonography-guided biopsy using a 10-core scheme. The sTT level was determined before the procedure using a chemiluminescent assay, and the ratio of sTT to PSA (sTT/PSA) was calculated after transforming sTT measurements from ng/dL to ng/mL. The overall cancer detection rate was 17.3%. The median sTT level was 332 ng/dl in men with cancer and 413 ng/dL in those without (p = 0.032). The median sTT/PSA ratio in these groups was 0.55 and 0.74, respectively (p = 0.035). The receiver operator characteristic (ROC) method was used to evaluate the properties of the sTT/PSA ratio, with testosterone and PSA as predictors of prostate cancer risk. The accuracy of the sTT/PSA ratio in prostate cancer diagnosis, represented by the area under the curve (AUC), was 0.739 (95% CI 0.640-0.823, p < 0.05). Optimizing the sensitivity and specificity of the sTT/PSA ratio using the ROC provided a cutoff point of 0.60, which corresponded to 82% sensitivity and 62% specificity. When the patients were divided into normal- and low-sTT level groups according to testosterone value (300 ng/dl), the probability of detecting prostate cancer was 3.3-fold higher in hypogonadal men as compared with eugonadal men. These results support the use of the sTT-to-PSA ratio for predicting the risk of prostate cancer and increasing the specificity of PSA measurement.
Pro-brain natriuretic peptide plasma levels, left ventricular dimensions and ejection fraction in acute dyspnoea.	To determine the association of the pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) plasma levels with twodimensional echocardiographic determination of left ventricular dimensions and ejection fraction (EF) in acute dyspneic patients.
Optimal time interval for position change for ICU patients using foam mattress against pressure ulcer risk]	This study was done to identify the time interval to pressure ulcer and to determine the optimal time interval for position change depending on pressure ulcer risk in patients using foam mattress in intensive care units.
The prevalence of recognized contributors to secondary osteoporosis in South East Asian men and post-menopausal women. Are Z score diagnostic thresholds useful predictors of their presence?	The prevalence of secondary contributors to osteoporosis in our population of SE Asian patients is high. Though various low thresholds Z score values have been proposed as suggestive of a high likelihood of secondary osteoporosis, they appear to have only limited discriminatory value in identifying a secondary cause.
Validation of the risk model: high-risk classification and tumor pattern of invasion predict outcome for patients with low-stage oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma.	The risk model is a validated outcome predictor for patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (Brandwein-Gensler et al. in Am j surg pathol 20:167-178, 2005; Am J Surg Pathol 34:676-688, 2010). This model may potentially shift treatment paradigms for patients with low-stage cancers, as current protocols dictate that they might receive only primary surgery. Here we test the hypothesis that the Risk Model has added prognostic value for low-stage oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma (OCSCC) patients. 299 patients with Stage I/II OCSCC were characterized according to the risk model (Brandwein-Gensler et al. in Am J Surg Pathol 20:167-178, 2005; Am J Surg Pathol 34:676-688, 2010). Cumulative incidence and competing risk analysis were performed for locoregional recurrence (LRR) and disease-specific survival (DSS). Receiver operating characteristic analyses were performed for worst pattern of invasion (WPOI) and the risk categories. 292 patients were analyzed; 30 T1N0 patients (17%) and 26 T2N0 patients (23%) developed LRR. Disease-specific mortality occurred in 9 T1N0 patients (6%) and 9 T2N0 patients (10%). On multivariable analysis, the risk model was significantly predictive of LRR (p = 0.0012, HR 2.41, 95% CI 1.42, 4.11) and DSS (p = 0.0005, HR 9.16, 95% CI 2.65, 31.66) adjusted for potential confounders. WPOI alone was also significantly predictive for LRR adjusted for potential confounders with a cut-point of either WPOI-4 (p = 0.0029, HR 3.63, 95% CI 1.56, 8.47) or WPOI-5 (p = 0.0008, HR 2.55, 95% CI 1.48, 4.41) and for DSS (cut point WPOI-5, p = 0.0001, HR 6.34, 95% CI 2.50, 16.09). Given a WPOI-5, the probability of developing locoregional recurrence is 42%. Given a high-risk classification for a combination of features other than WPOI-5, the probability of developing locoregional recurrence is 32%. The Risk Model is the first validated model that is significantly predictive for the important niche group of low-stage OCSCC patients.
Does C-reactive protein independently predict mortality in adult community-acquired bacteremia patients with known sepsis severity?	We evaluated whether sepsis severity and C-reactive protein (CRP) level on admission prognostically corroborated or annulled each other in adult patients with incident community-acquired bacteremia (Funen, Denmark, 2000-2008). We used logistic regression and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) to evaluate 30-day mortality in four models: (i) age, gender, comorbidity, bacteria, and ward. (ii) Model 1 and sepsis severity. (iii) Model 1 and CRP. (iv) Model 1, sepsis severity, and CRP. Altogether, 416 of 1999 patients died within 30 days. CRP independently predicted 30-day mortality [Model 4, odds ratio (95% CIs) for 100 mg/L: 1.16 (1.06-1.27)], but it did not contribute to the AUC (Model 2 vs Model 4: p = 0.31). In the 963 non-severe sepsis patients, CRP independently predicted 30-day mortality [Model 4: 1.42 (1.20-1.69)] and it increased the AUC (Model 2 vs Model 4: p = 0.06), thus CRP contributed as much as sepsis severity to prognosis.
Combined linear array high- and convex array low-frequency duplex ultrasonography with or without examination of the ophthalmic artery in the differential diagnosis of occlusion from severe stenosis of internal carotid artery.	To assess the benefits of using a low-frequency convex probe and detecting ophthalmic artery blood flow for the differential diagnosis of occlusion from severe stenosis of the internal carotid artery (ICA).
Validity and reliability of the 45-15 test for aerobic fitness in young soccer players.	The aim of this study was to examine the reliability and validity of a popular field test for aerobic fitness used in soccer (45-15) in Italy. Alternating progressive 45-s runs with 15 s passive recovery until exhaustion, the test considers peak speed (PS) as a reflection of maximal aerobic speed (MAS). The validity and reliability of the 45-15 was assessed in 18 young male soccer players (age 16.7  1.8 y, body mass 70  7.45 kg, height 177  0.5 cm, 55.62  5.56 mL  kg-1 min-1) submitted to laboratory testing for aerobic fitness and repeatedly to the 45-15. Results showed that 45-15 PS was significantly related to VO2max (r = .80, P < .001, 95%CI .47-.93) and MAS (r = .78, P = .001, 95%CI .43-.93). No significant bias between MAS 45-15 PS (P = .11) was found during the measurement-consistency study. Receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) analysis showed that 45-15 PS was sensitive in detecting VO2max changes in subjects as revealed by area under the curve (.97; 95%CI .73-1). Players with peak 45-15 speed equal to or above 16.5 km/h (ie, ROC cutoff) may be considered to have good aerobic fitness. In light of this study's findings, the 45-15 test may be considered a reliable and valid test to evaluate meaningful information to direct generic aerobic training in soccer. 
Validation of EuroSCORE II in Chinese patients undergoing heart valve surgery.	To assess the performance of the The European System for Cardiac Operative. Risk Evaluation II (EuroSCORE II) in Chinese patients undergoing heart valve surgery at our centre.
Hierarchical fusion of features and classifier decisions for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis.	Pattern classification methods have been widely investigated for analysis of brain images to assist the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its early stage such as mild cognitive impairment (MCI). By considering the nature of pathological changes, a large number of features related to both local brain regions and interbrain regions can be extracted for classification. However, it is challenging to design a single global classifier to integrate all these features for effective classification, due to the issue of small sample size. To this end, we propose a hierarchical ensemble classification method to combine multilevel classifiers by gradually integrating a large number of features from both local brain regions and interbrain regions. Thus, the large-scale classification problem can be divided into a set of small-scale and easier-to-solve problems in a bottom-up and local-to-global fashion, for more accurate classification. To demonstrate its performance, we use the spatially normalized grey matter (GM) of each MR brain image as imaging features. Specifically, we first partition the whole brain image into a number of local brain regions and, for each brain region, we build two low-level classifiers to transform local imaging features and the inter-region correlations into high-level features. Then, we generate multiple high-level classifiers, with each evaluating the high-level features from the respective brain regions. Finally, we combine the outputs of all high-level classifiers for making a final classification. Our method has been evaluated using the baseline MR images of 652 subjects (including 198 AD patients, 225 MCI patients, and 229 normal controls (NC)) from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database. The experimental results show that our classification method can achieve the accuracies of 92.0% and 85.3% for classifications of AD versus NC and MCI versus NC, respectively, demonstrating very promising classification performance compared to the state-of-the-art classification methods.
HbA1c and the diagnosis of diabetes and prediabetes in a middle-aged and elderly Han population from northwest China (HbA1c).	To identify the optimal threshold of HbA1c and to evaluate the predictive performance of HbA1c levels in diagnosing diabetes and prediabetes in a middle-aged and elderly Han Chinese population from northwest China.
Selection of women aged 50-64 yr for bone density measurement.	The fracture risk assessment tool from the World Health Organization (FRAX()) estimates 10-yr major osteoporotic and hip fracture probabilities from multiple clinical risk factors and optionally femoral neck bone mineral density (BMD). FRAX without BMD has been proposed as a method to select postmenopausal women younger than 65yr for BMD measurement, but the efficiency of this strategy and its concordance with National Osteoporosis Foundation (NOF) treatment guidelines is unknown. The osteoporosis self-assessment test (OST) is another simple screening tool based on age and weight alone. A historical cohort of 18,315 women aged 50-64yr, drawn from the Manitoba Bone Density Program database, which contains clinical BMD results for the Province of Manitoba, Canada, was used to determine the performance of these screening tools in selecting postmenopausal women younger than 65yr for BMD testing. FRAX was closely aligned with indicators of high fracture risk (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve [AUROC]: 0.89), whereas OST was better for detecting women with osteoporotic BMD (AUROC: 0.72). The combination of major fracture probability 10% or higher from FRAX without BMD or OST less than 1 identified 42% of women for BMD testing, capturing 72% of women meeting any NOF treatment criteria (90% of women with NOF criteria for high risk from FRAX or prior fracture). The negative predictive value to exclude qualification for treatment under the NOF criteria was 90%. These data may help to inform an evidence-based approach for targeting BMD testing in postmenopausal women younger than 65yr under the NOF treatment guidelines.
Establishment of a simple predictive scoring system for pancreatic fistula after laparoscopy-assisted gastrectomy.	The potential severity of postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) after laparoscopy-assisted gastrectomy (LAG) necessitates efforts to identify predictive factors for POPF. The aim of the present study was to identify predictive factors for POPF and to establish a predictive scoring system for POPF after LAG.
Physical Activity Questionnaire for children and adolescents: English norms and cut-off points.	The Physical Activity Questionnaire for Children and Adolescents (PAQ-C/-A) provides general estimates of physical activity levels. Following recent expert recommendations for using the PAQ for population surveillance, the aim of this paper was twofold: first, to describe normative PAQ data for English youth; and second, to determine a criterion-referenced PAQ-score cut-off point.
White matter imaging helps dissociate tau from TDP-43 in frontotemporal lobar degeneration.	Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is most commonly associated with TAR-DNA binding protein (TDP-43) or tau pathology at autopsy, but there are no in vivo biomarkers reliably discriminating between sporadic cases. As disease-modifying treatments emerge, it is critical to accurately identify underlying pathology in living patients so that they can be entered into appropriate etiology-directed clinical trials. Patients with tau inclusions (FTLD-TAU) appear to have relatively greater white matter (WM) disease at autopsy than those patients with TDP-43 (FTLD-TDP). In this paper, we investigate the ability of white matter (WM) imaging to help discriminate between FTLD-TAU and FTLD-TDP during life using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI).
Prognostic and diagnostic significance of annexin A2 in colorectal cancer.	Annexin A2 (ANXA2) is known to be a tumourigenic molecule and is highly expressed in colorectal cancer (CRC). Its diagnostic and prognostic value is not fully understood. This study was designed to investigate the relationship between ANXA2 expression, clinicopathological characteristics, tumour recurrence and survival.
Factors associated with a better therapeutic effect of solifenacin in patients with overactive bladder syndrome.	To analyze the predictors of therapeutic success after solifenacin treatment.
Detecting alcohol abuse: traditional blood alcohol markers compared to ethyl glucuronide (EtG) and fatty acid ethyl esters (FAEEs) measurement in hair.	Alcohol abuse is a common problem in society; however, the technical capabilities of evaluating individual alcohol consumption using objective biomarkers are rather limited at present. In recent years research has focused on alcohol markers using hair analysis but data on performance and reliable cut-off values are still lacking. In this study 169 candidates were tested to compare traditional biomarkers, such as carbohydrate-deficient-transferrin (CDT), gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), aspartate amino transferase, alanine amino transferase and the mean corpuscular volume of the erythrocytes, with alcohol markers detectable in hair such as ethyl glucuronide (EtG) and fatty acid ethyl esters (FAEEs). This study revealed that EtG, GGT and CDT showed the best results, demonstrating areas under the curve calculated from receiver operating characteristics of 0.941, 0.943 and 0.899 respectively. The lowest false-negative and false-positive rates were obtained by using a combined interpretation system for hair EtG and FAEEs. All markers demonstrated only low to moderate correlations. Optimum cut-off values for differentiation between social and chronic excessive drinking calculated for hair EtG and FAEEs were 28pg/mg and 0.675ng/mg, respectively. The critical values published in the "Consensus on Alcohol Markers 2012" by the Society of Hair Testing were confirmed. 
Can hybrid SPECT-CT overcome the limitations associated with poor imaging properties of 131I-MIBG?: Comparison with planar scintigraphy and SPECT in pheochromocytoma.	This study aimed to evaluate the incremental value of (131)I-MIBG hybrid SPECT-CT over planar scintigraphy (PS) and SPECT alone in patients with clinical or biochemical suspicion of pheochromocytoma.
Diagnostic accuracy of mean platelet volume in thromboangiitis obliterans.	Thromboangiitis obliterans (TAO) affects small- and medium-sized vessels of the extremities via a non-atherosclerotic inflammatory process in the elderly. Although diagnostic criteria have been determined, only a few studies have been described in the laboratory features. Diagnostic biomarkers are important for reducing disruptions caused by TAO. The diagnostic importance of mean platelet volume (MPV) was investigated in TAO patients. Forty-four patients diagnosed with TAO (study group) and 45 healthy individuals (control group) were included in the study. The age, gender and complete blood parameters obtained via peripheral venous blood samples were compared between the two groups. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used for determining the diagnostic accuracy of the MPV variable. All the variables were statistically similar in each group except MPV and platelet counts. MPV was significantly higher and platelet count was significantly lower in the TAO group (P< 0.05). In addition, diagnostic accuracy was measured by the area under the ROC curve (Figure 1), and MPV differs significantly (P< 0.001), with a value of 0.783 (95% CI: 0.711-0.854). This study indicates that MPV is probably an important diagnostic predictor in TAO patients. Detection of blood parameters such as platelet properties is important for meticulous care of these patients.
Quantitative ultrasound image analysis of axillary lymph node status in breast cancer patients.	Ultrasonography has the potential to accurately stage breast cancer with automated analysis to detect axillary lymph node metastasis. The aim of this study was to develop and test automated quantitative ultrasound image analysis of axillary lymph nodes for breast cancer staging.
The use of cervical length and change in cervical length for prediction of spontaneous preterm birth in asymptomatic twin pregnancies.	To assess the association between cervical length (CL) and change of CL over two measurements and preterm birth (PTB) at <32 weeks in asymptomatic twin pregnancies.
Usefulness of cross-table lateral view radiograph for the diagnosis of cam-type femoroacetabular impingement.	The purpose of this study was to examine the usefulness of cross-table view in the clinical diagnosis of cam-type femoroacetabular impingement (FAI). We measured the  angles on radiographs taken in cross-table lateral view in 39 hips with cam-type FAI and compared with those measured in 45 control hips. Alpha angles ranged from 30 to 78 (mean 56) in the control group and from 47 to 120 (mean 81.1) in the FAI group. From a canonial discriminant analysis, the cutoff value of  angle was 68.2. Sensitivity analysis showed a sensitivity of 87.18%, specificity of 88.89%, and accuracy of 88.3%. Cross-table lateral view is useful for the diagnosis of cam-type FAI. 
Risk prediction of esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma with common genetic variants and lifestyle factors in Chinese population.	Genome-wide association studies have identified multiple genetic variants associated with risk of esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma (ESCC) in Chinese populations. We examined whether these genetic factors, along with non-genetic factors, can contribute to ESCC risk prediction. We examined 25 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 4 non-genetic factors (sex, age, smoking and drinking) associated with ESCC risk in 9805 cases and 10 493 controls from Chinese populations. Weighted genetic risk score (wGRS) was calculated and logistic regression was used to analyze the association between wGRS and ESCC risk. We calculated the area under the curve (AUC) using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis to measure the discrimination after adding genetic variants to the model with only non-genetic factors. Net reclassification improvement (NRI) was used to quantify the degree of correct reclassification using different models. wGRS of the combined 17 SNPs with significant marginal effect (G SNPs) increased ~4-fold ESCC risk (P = 1.49  10(-) (164)) and the associations were significant in both drinkers and non-drinkers. However, wGRS of the eight SNPs with significant effect in gene  drinking interaction (GE SNPs) increased ~4-fold ESCC risk only in drinkers (P interaction = 8.76  10(-) (41)). The AUC for a risk model with 4 non-genetic factors, 17 G SNPs, 8 GE SNPs and their interactions with drinking was 70.1%, with the significant improvement of 7.0% compared with the model with only non-genetic factors (P < 0.0001). Our results indicate that incorporating genetic variants, lifestyle factors and their interactions in ESCC risk models can be useful for identifying patients with ESCC. 
Use of a support vector machine for categorizing free-text notes: assessment of accuracy across two institutions.	Electronic health record (EHR) users must regularly review large amounts of data in order to make informed clinical decisions, and such review is time-consuming and often overwhelming. Technologies like automated summarization tools, EHR search engines and natural language processing have been shown to help clinicians manage this information.
Donor-specific antibodies: can they predict C4d deposition in pediatric heart recipients?	There is limited evidence regarding the utility of circulating DSA in surveillance for AMR of pediatric heart recipients. Our hypothesis is that quantitation of DSA improves their power for predicting a C4d+, an integral component in the current diagnostic criteria of AMR. All pediatric recipients transplanted between 10/2005 and 1/2011 were retrospectively reviewed for DSA determined within 48h of EMB. C4d+ was defined as >25% endothelial cell staining by immunohistochemical methods. A total of 183 paired DSA-EMB determinations were identified in 60 patients, a median of three paired studies per patient (range: 1-9). DSA were detected in 60 of these determinations. A receiver-operating characteristic plot identified a threshold single-antibody MFI of >6000 that strongly correlated with C4d+ (p<0.0001) with a high negative predictive value (0.97) and specificity (0.95). The sensitivity and positive predictive values were 0.71 and 0.60, respectively. The predictive power of single-antigen DSA for C4d deposition was improved in pediatric heart recipients using an institution-specific MFI threshold value. In post-transplant care, quantitative DSA should be an essential component in the surveillance for AMR. 
Capillaroscopic Skin Ulcers Risk Index (CSURI) calculated with different videocapillaroscopy devices: how its predictive values change.	Digital ulcers (DU) occur in about 50% of systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients. Scleroderma DU are responsible for chronic pain and disability with the need of systemic and local treatments. Recently, capillaroscopic skin ulcer risk index (CSURI) has been validated as useful tool in predicting the appearance of new scleroderma ulcers and/or persistence of non-healing lesions, within 3 months from capillaroscopy evaluation.
Psychometric properties of the Mini-Balance Evaluation Systems Test (Mini-BESTest) in community-dwelling individuals with chronic stroke.	The Mini-Balance Evaluation Systems Test (Mini-BESTest) is a new balance assessment, but its psychometric properties have not been specifically tested in individuals with stroke.
Validation and cross-cultural adaptation of the Self-Assessment Disability Scale in patients with Parkinson's disease in Serbia.	The symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) worsen over time affecting performance and causing disability. The purpose of this study was to translate the Self-Assessment Disability Scale in patients with Parkinson's disease (SADS-PD) into the Serbian language and assess its validity and reliability. From January to July 2012, 114 consecutive PD patients were recruited at the Neurology Clinic in Belgrade. The inclusion criteria were: ability to walk independently for at least 10 m, ability to stand for at least 90 s. The exclusion criteria were: cognitive impairment, the presence of other major neurologic, psychiatric, visual, audio-vestibular, and orthopedic disturbances. The 25-item SADS-PD was translated according to internationally-accepted methodology. The internal consistency of the scale was evaluated using Cronbach's alpha coefficient. Test-retest reliability was evaluated using Kendall's concordance coefficient for total scores. To evaluate construct validity, an exploratory factor analysis (principal component analysis, varimax rotation) was performed. Cronbach's alpha coefficient was 0.984. Kendall's concordance coefficient was 0.994. Duration of the disease, Hoehn & Yahr (H&Y) stage, Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor score, history of falls, Hamilton's Depression and Anxiety Rating Scales (HDRS and HARS) scores were significantly correlated with the total SADS-PD score. On factor analysis 25 items in the SADS-PD questionnaire were separated in two clusters with total matrix variance of 79.7 %. The psychometric properties of the cross-culturally adapted SADS-PD questionnaire (Serbian version) have outstanding validity and reliability as an instrument for evaluation of the extent of disability in patients with PD.
Development and psychometric properties of the DCDDaily: a new test for clinical assessment of capacity in activities of daily living in children with developmental coordination disorder.	To develop the DCDDaily, an instrument for objective and standardized clinical assessment of capacity in activities of daily living (ADL) in children with developmental coordination disorder (DCD), and to investigate its usability, reliability, and validity.
Diagnostic performance of MRI measurements to assess hindfoot malalignment. An assessment of four measurement techniques.	To investigate the ability of coronal non-weight-bearing MR images to discriminate between normal and abnormal hindfoot alignment.
Breast cancer risk prediction model: a nomogram based on common mammographic screening findings.	To develop a prediction model for breast cancer based on common mammographic findings on screening mammograms aiming to reduce reader variability in assigning BI-RADS.
Inspiratory fraction correlates with exercise capacity in patients with stable moderate to severe COPD.	Exercise intolerance is the hallmark of COPD. Static lung hyperinflation and increased dynamic hyperinflation during exercise are associated with reduced functional capacity in COPD patients. Inspiratory capacity correction for the total lung capacity, defined as inspiratory fraction (IF), may be functionally more representative than other traditional indices in these patients.
Prediction of bacterial meningitis based on cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis in children.	Children with cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis are frequently treated with parenteral antibiotics, but only a few have bacterial meningitis. Although some clinical prediction rules, such as bacterial meningitis score, are of well-known value, the cerebrospinal fluid white blood cells count can be the initial available information. Our aim was to establish a cutoff point of cerebrospinal fluid white blood cell count that could distinguish bacterial from viral and aseptic meningitis. A retrospective study of children aged 29 days to 17 years who were admitted between January 1st and December 31th, 2009, with cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis (white blood cell7L(-1)) was conducted. The cases of traumatic lumbar puncture and of antibiotic treatment before lumbar puncture were excluded. There were 295 patients with cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis, 60.3% females, medium age 5.04.3 years distributed as: 12.2% 1-3 months; 10.5% 3-12 months; 29.8% 12 months to 5 years; 47.5% >5 years. Thirty one children (10.5%) were diagnosed with bacterial meningitis, 156 (52.9%) viral meningitis and 108 (36.6%) aseptic meningitis. Bacterial meningitis was caused by Neisseria meningitidis (48.4%), Streptococcus pneumoniae (32.3%), other Streptococcus species (9.7%), and other agents (9.7%). cerebrospinal fluid white blood cell count was significantly higher in patients with bacterial meningitis (mean, 4839cells/L) compared to patients with aseptic meningitis (mean, 159cells/L, p<0.001), with those with aseptic meningitis (mean, 577cells/L, p<0.001) and with all non-bacterial meningitis cases together (p<0.001). A cutoff value of 321white blood cell/L showed the best combination of sensitivity (80.6%) and specificity (81.4%) for the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis (area under receiver operating characteristic curve 0.837). Therefore, the value of cerebrospinal fluid white blood cell count was found to be a useful and rapid diagnostic test to distinguish between bacterial and nonbacterial meningitis in children. 
Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging evaluation of intra-abdominal sites of implants to predict likelihood of suboptimal cytoreductive surgery in patients with ovarian carcinoma.	To analyse the diagnostic accuracy and to establish a predictive score based on diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWMRI) compared to exploratory laparotomy (EL) for predicting suboptimal cytoreductive surgery for different intra-abdominal sites of implants in patients with ovarian cancer.
High density lipoprotein cholesterol levels are an independent predictor of the progression of chronic kidney disease.	Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) often present with reduced plasma HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) levels. Whether this reduction in an epiphenomenon or is involved in disease progression is unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the relation between HDL-C levels/function and CKD progression in patients with different degrees of disease.
Executive function and diffusion in frontal white matter of adults with moyamoya disease.	Cognitive impairment is a frequent complication of moyamoya disease (MMD) in adults. Chronic hypoperfusion in frontal lobes can lead to subtle brain injury, resulting in cognitive dysfunctions. Apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) in normal-appearing white matter on conventional magnetic resonance imaging correlates with cerebral hemodynamics in the frontal lobe.
Plasma copeptin and long-term outcomes in acute ischemic stroke.	The identification of patients at highest risk for adverse outcome who are presenting with acute ischemic stroke to the emergency department remains a challenge. This study firstly investigates the long-term prognostic value of the stress marker copeptin in Chinese patients with acute ischemic stroke.
Comparison of six risk scores for in-hospital mortality in Chinese patients undergoing heart valve surgery.	To compare six risk scores with regard to their validity to predict in-hospital mortality after heart valve surgery in a single-centre patient population of China.
Contrast-enhanced ultrasound features of histologically proven focal nodular hyperplasia: diagnostic performance compared with contrast-enhanced CT.	To investigate and compare contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) in the characterisation of histologically proven focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH) with contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT).
Trefoil factor 2 expression and its significance as a predictor of severity of sepsis in children.	Intestinal injury significantly contributes to critical illness, sepsis and multiorgan failure. TFF2 (Trefoil Factor 2) is expressed and secreted preferentially by gastric mucous neck cells. TFF2 gene expression is promptly increased after gut injury, and its expression profile broadens to include the regenerative epithelia of virtually the entire gastrointestinal tract. The first objective of our study was an analysis of TFF2 levels dynamics in patients with Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome (SIRS) or septic condition during a 5-day period after admission. The second objective was to determine optimal cut-off value and quantify diagnostic characteristics of TFF2 between controls and patients with various septic states. The study included 57 children aged 0-19 years, with expected or proven SIRS and septic condition. The degree of severity was evaluated according to PELOD Score (Pediatric Logistic Organ Dysfunction). Blood samples to determine levels of TFF2 factor were taken during the time patient met the criteria of SIRS or sepsis. Control group samples to determine the serum levels of TFF2 were taken from patients undergoing elective surgery. Analysis of TFF2 levels dynamics revealed that TFF2 levels kept steady state during the 5-day period. Significantly higher levels of TFF2 were in patients with Multiple Organ Dysfunction Syndrome (MODS). The difference was noticed also in ROC analysis. 
A blood-based predictor for neocortical A burden in Alzheimer's disease: results from the AIBL study.	Dementia is a global epidemic with Alzheimer's disease (AD) being the leading cause. Early identification of patients at risk of developing AD is now becoming an international priority. Neocortical A (extracellular -amyloid) burden (NAB), as assessed by positron emission tomography (PET), represents one such marker for early identification. These scans are expensive and are not widely available, thus, there is a need for cheaper and more widely accessible alternatives. Addressing this need, a blood biomarker-based signature having efficacy for the prediction of NAB and which can be easily adapted for population screening is described. Blood data (176 analytes measured in plasma) and Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB)-PET measurements from 273 participants from the Australian Imaging, Biomarkers and Lifestyle (AIBL) study were utilised. Univariate analysis was conducted to assess the difference of plasma measures between high and low NAB groups, and cross-validated machine-learning models were generated for predicting NAB. These models were applied to 817 non-imaged AIBL subjects and 82 subjects from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) for validation. Five analytes showed significant difference between subjects with high compared to low NAB. A machine-learning model (based on nine markers) achieved sensitivity and specificity of 80 and 82%, respectively, for predicting NAB. Validation using the ADNI cohort yielded similar results (sensitivity 79% and specificity 76%). These results show that a panel of blood-based biomarkers is able to accurately predict NAB, supporting the hypothesis for a relationship between a blood-based signature and A accumulation, therefore, providing a platform for developing a population-based screen. 
Normative performance on the Brief Smell Identification Test (BSIT) in a multi-ethnic bilingual cohort: a Project FRONTIER study.	The Brief Smell Identification Test (BSIT) is a commonly used measure of olfactory functioning in elderly populations. Few studies have provided normative data for this measure, and minimal data are available regarding the impact of sociodemographic factors on test scores. This study presents normative data for the BSIT in a sample of English- and Spanish-speaking Hispanic and non-Hispanic Whites. A Rasch analysis was also conducted to identify the items that best discriminated between varying levels of olfactory functioning, as measured by the BSIT. The total sample included 302 older adults seen as part of an ongoing study of rural cognitive aging, Project FRONTIER. Hierarchical regression analyses revealed that BSIT scores require adjustment by age and gender, but years of education, ethnicity, and language did not significantly influence BSIT performance. Four items best discriminated between varying levels of smell identification, accounting for 59.44% of total information provided by the measure. However, items did not represent a continuum of difficulty on the BSIT. The results of this study indicate that the BSIT appears to be well-suited for assessing odor identification deficits in older adults of diverse backgrounds, but that fine-tuning of this instrument may be recommended in light of its items' difficulty and discrimination parameters. Clinical and empirical implications are discussed. 
Prevention and diagnosis of invasive fungal disease in high-risk patients within an integrative care pathway.	The aim of this study was to assess the clinical utility of enhanced diagnostics on the management of invasive fungal disease in high risk patients within an integrated care pathway and to audit compliance and efficacy of antifungal prophylaxis.
Prognostic value of myocardial circumferential strain for incident heart failure and cardiovascular events in asymptomatic individuals: the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis.	Left ventricular (LV) circumferential strain (Ecc) is a sensitive index of regional myocardial function. Currently, no studies have assessed its prognostic value in general population. We sought to investigate whether Ecc has a prognostic value for predicting incident heart failure (HF) and other major cardiovascular events in asymptomatic individuals without a history of previous cardiovascular diseases.
Thoracic ultrasound-assisted selection for pleural biopsy with Abrams needle.	Closed pleural biopsy (CPB) in patients with malignant pleural effusion is less sensitive than cytology. Ultrasound-assisted CPB allows biopsies to be performed in the lower thoracic parietal pleura, where secondary spread from pleural metastases is initially more likely to be found. We analyzed whether choosing the point of entry for CPB with thoracic ultrasound assistance influences the diagnostic yield in malignant pleural effusion.
Diffusion-weighted MRI in pretreatment prediction of response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with breast cancer.	To evaluate the accuracy of the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) provided by diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) in predicting the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) at baseline in patients according to their breast tumour phenotypes.
Three-dimensional imaging of the spine using the EOS system: is it reliable? A comparative study using computed tomography imaging.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the precision of three-dimensional geometry compared with computed tomography (CT) images. This retrospective study included patients who had undergone both imaging of the spine using the EOS imaging system and CT scanning of the spine. The apical vertebral orientation was also measured using the EOS imaging system and by CT. Other measures such as the Cobb angle and apical vertebral rotation and translation were used as the control variables to evaluate the potential discrepancy between the standing position in EOS imaging and the supine position in CT scanning. The apical vertebral orientations were 8.7 for the first measurement and 8.4 for the second measurement made by the first author, and 10.3 for the measurement made by the second author. The average of these measurements was 9.3 compared with 6.6 (P=0.65) obtained on CT scanning. The precision of EOS-based measurements of vertebral rotation has never been tested in clinical practice. Although it has limitations, this study suggests that the results obtained using EOS are comparable to those obtained on CT. 
Surface-length index: a novel index for rapid detection of right ventricles with abnormal ejection fraction using cardiac MRI.	To validate a new index, the surface-length index (SLI) based on area change in a short-axis view and length reduction in the horizontal long-axis view, which is used to quickly (<1min) detect right ventricles with an abnormal ejection fraction (EF) during a cardiac MRI examination. SLI can be used to avoid a complete delineation of the endocardial contours of normal right ventricles.
High levels of CD20 expression predict good prognosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Heterogeneity of CD20 expression exists in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), therefore, we explored the prognostic significance of CD20 expression in Chinese patients with CLL. Multiparameter flow cytometry was used to detect the expression of CD20 in CD5(+) CD19(+) cells. In 172 CLL patients, the median expression percent of CD20 was 97.82% (range, 0-100), and the median mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) of CD20 in CLL cells was 731.45 (range, 0.00-9071.90). The percentage of CD20(+) cells in the patient group with mutated variable region of immunoglobulin genes (IGHV) was higher than in the non-mutant IGHV group (mean, 92.1% vs 80.4%, P < 0.001). There were no differences in the MFI of CD20(+) cells in all prognostic factor groups. Representation of the data using a receiver operating characteristic plot reflected separation between the two IGHV groups, with an area under the curve of 0.661 (95% confidence interval, 0.569-0.753). At the cut-off value of 60.3% for percentage of CD20, the sensitivity and specificity were 90.00% and 38.46%, respectively. Patients whose percentage of CD20 antigen was above 60.3% had longer treatment-free survival (hazard ratio, 0.452; 95% confidence interval, 0.232-0.884, P = 0.020). Percentage and MFI of CD20 were the variables not associated with treatment-free survival by multivariate Cox regression analysis (P < 0.05). High level of CD20 expression in de novo CLL appears to be associated with a good prognosis.
Intentional retrieval suppression can conceal guilty knowledge in ERP memory detection tests.	Brain-activity markers of guilty knowledge have been promoted as accurate and reliable measures for establishing criminal culpability. Tests based on these markers interpret the presence or absence of memory-related neural activity as diagnostic of whether or not incriminating information is stored in a suspect's brain. This conclusion critically relies on the untested assumption that reminders of a crime uncontrollably elicit memory-related brain activity. However, recent research indicates that, in some circumstances, humans can control whether they remember a previous experience by intentionally suppressing retrieval. We examined whether people could use retrieval suppression to conceal neural evidence of incriminating memories as indexed by Event-Related Potentials (ERPs). When people were motivated to suppress crime retrieval, their memory-related ERP effects were significantly decreased, allowing guilty individuals to evade detection. Our findings indicate that brain measures of guilty knowledge may be under criminals' intentional control and place limits on their use in legal settings. 
Relationship between serum infliximab trough levels and endoscopic activities in patients with Crohn's disease under scheduled maintenance treatment.	Few data are available to support the clinical relevance of infliximab (IFX) trough levels for prediction of endoscopic disease activity in Crohn's disease (CD). This study evaluated the endoscopic disease activities in relation to clinical outcome using several laboratory markers including serum IFX trough levels in patients with CD undergoing scheduled IFX maintenance treatment.
Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) for the early detection of cardiac surgery associated acute kidney injury.	Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common complication after cardiac surgery. Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) may be an early biomarker for cardiac surgery-associated (CSA) AKI. We investigated whether increased urinary NGAL concentrations were predictive of AKI within 4 days after surgery and of mortality within 9 months.
Role of preablation neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio on outcomes of cryoballoon-based atrial fibrillation ablation.	The neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio (NLR) has recently emerged as better indicator of inflammation and oxidative stress and has been widely studied in several cardiovascular diseases. In the present study, we evaluated the role of the preablation NLR in atrial fibrillation (AF) recurrence after cryoballoon-based catheter ablation. A total of 251 patients (47.8% women, age 54.12  10.9 years, 80.1% with paroxysmal AF) with symptomatic AF underwent cryoablation. At a mean follow-up of 19.0  6.6 months, 60 patients (23.9%) had developed AF recurrence. The patients who developed AF recurrence had had a greater preablation NLR (3.53  0.95 vs 2.65  0.23, p <0.001) and a higher white blood cell count, neutrophil count, and high-sensitivity C-reaction protein levels. On multivariate regression analysis, the preablation NLR (hazard ratio 2.15, 95% confidence interval 1.70 to 2.73, p <0.001), left atrial diameter (hazard ratio 1.09, 95% confidence interval 1.04 to 1.14, p <0.001) and early AF recurrence (hazard ratio 2.99, 95% confidence interval 1.71 to 5.23, p <0.001) were independent predictors of AF recurrence after cryoablation. Using a cutoff level of 3.15, the preablation NLR predicted AF recurrence during follow-up with a sensitivity of 84% and specificity of 75%. Patients with a preablation NLR >3.15 had a 2.5-fold increased risk of developing AF recurrence after cryoablation. In conclusion, an elevated preablation NLR was associated with increased AF recurrence after cryoballoon-based catheter ablation. Our results support the role of a preablation inflammatory environment in the development of AF recurrence after ablation therapy but suggest that other factors are also important. 
Shear-wave elastography in the diagnosis of solid breast masses: what leads to false-negative or false-positive results?	To investigate the factors that have an effect on false-positive or false-negative shear-wave elastography (SWE) results in solid breast masses.
Digital breast tomosynthesis versus mammography and breast ultrasound: a multireader performance study.	To compare the diagnostic performance of single-view breast tomosynthesis (BT) with that of dual-view mammography (MX); to assess the benefit of adding the craniocaudal (CC) mammographic view to BT, and of adding BT to MX plus breast ultrasound, considered to be the reference work-up.
The Aphasia Rapid Test: an NIHSS-like aphasia test.	The Aphasia Rapid Test (ART) is a 26-point scale developed as a bedside assessment to rate aphasia severity in acute stroke patients in <3 min. We tested its inter-rater reproducibility, its sensitivity to detect changes from Day 1 to Day 8, and the predictive value of D8 ART scores on the 3-month aphasia outcome assessed with the Aphasia Handicap Score (AHS), a 0-5 "Rankin-like" score for aphasic disability. The reproducibility was tested in 91 aphasic patients within one week of stroke onset. The inter-rater concordance coefficient was 0.99 and the weighted Kappa value (w) was 0.93. The sensitivity was tested in 70 aphasic patients by measuring changes in ART values between D1 and D8. Improvement occurred in 46 patients (66 %) and aggravation in three patients (4 %). In these patients, a logistic regression analysis showed that D8 ART was the only significant predictor of good (AHS 0-2) or poor (AHS 4-5) outcome. The ROC curves analyzes showed areas under the curve above 0.9 for good and poor outcome and revealed D8 ART best cut-off values of <12 for good and >21 for poor outcome, with more than 90 % sensitivity and 80 % specificity. The ART is a simple, rapid and reproducible language task, useful in monitoring early aphasic changes in acute stroke patients and highly predictive of the 3-month verbal communication outcome. It should be easy to adapt to other languages.
Usefulness of the D-dimer concentration as a predictor of mortality in patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.	During cardiac arrest and after cardiopulmonary resuscitation, activation of blood coagulation occurs, with a lack of adequate endogenous fibrinolysis. The aim of the present study was to determine whether the serum D-dimer concentration on admission is an independent predictor of all-cause mortality in patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. We enrolled 182 consecutive patients (122 men, mean age 64.3  15 years), who had presented to the emergency department from January 2007 to July 2012 because of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. Information about the initial arrest rhythm, biochemical parameters, including the D-dimer concentration on admission, neurologic outcomes, and 30-day all-cause mortality were retrospectively collected. Of the 182 patients, 79 (43.4%) had died. The patients who died had had lower systolic (100  39.6 vs 120.5  26.9 mm Hg; p = 0.0004) and diastolic (58.3  24.1 vs 74  16.3 mm Hg; p <0.0001) blood pressure on admission. The deceased patients more often had had a history of myocardial infarction (32.9% vs 25.2%; p = 0.04) and less often had had an initial shockable rhythm (41.8% vs 60.2%; p = 0.02). The patients who died had had a significantly higher mean D-dimer concentration (9,113.6  5,979.2 vs 6,121.6  4,597.5 g/L; p = 0.005) compared with patients who stayed alive. On multivariate logistic regression analysis, an on-admission D-dimer concentration >5,205 g/L (odds ratio 5.7, 95% confidence interval 1.22 to 26.69) and hemoglobin concentration (odds ratio 1.66, 95% confidence interval 1.13 to 2.43) were strong and independent predictors of all-cause mortality. In conclusion, patients with a higher D-dimer concentration on admission had a poorer prognosis. The D-dimer concentration was an independent predictor of all-cause mortality.
Substantia nigra hyperechogenicity as a marker for Parkinson's disease: a population-based study.	The clinical diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) is currently anchored in its cardinal motor symptoms. According to hospital-based studies, an enlarged echogenicity in the area of the substantia nigra (SN) assessed with transcranial sonography (TCS) may represent a useful biomarker in the diagnosis of PD.
A model to predict the risk of upgrade to malignancy at surgery in atypical breast lesions discovered on percutaneous biopsy specimens.	When any atypical feature is identified on a percutaneous biopsy specimen of a suspicious breast lesion, surgical excision is mandatory, leading to unnecessary surgeries in 70-90% of the cases. The purpose of this study was to develop a model to predict the presence of cancer at surgery that would be applicable to all atypical lesions.
Relationship between left atrial volume and diastolic dysfunction in 500 Brazilian patients.	Left atrial volume index (LAVI) increase has been associated to left ventricle (LV) diastolic dysfunction (DD), a marker of cardiovascular events (atrial fibrillation, stroke, heart failure, death).
Prognostic value of initial arterial lactate level and lactate metabolic clearance rate in patients with acute paraquat poisoning.	The aim of this study is to evaluate the prognostic value of initial arterial lactate level and 12-hour lactate metabolic clearance rate (MCR) in patients with acute paraquat poisoning.
Predictors of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus colonization at hospital admission.	The best strategy for active surveillance for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) remains unclear. We attempted to identify a risk factor score to predict MRSA colonization at hospital admission.
Elevation of CRP precedes clinical suspicion of bloodstream infections in patients undergoing hematopoietic cell transplantation.	We aimed to examine whether C-reactive protein (CRP) elevation precedes the clinical signs and symptoms of infection among patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT).
Work Ability Index predicts application for disability pension after work-related medical rehabilitation for chronic back pain.	To determine whether the Work Ability Index (WAI), a short 7-item self-report questionnaire addressing issues of perceived disability, impairment, and expectations for resuming work, predicts application for disability pension, recommendations for further treatment, and other adverse work-related criteria in patients with chronic back pain after rehabilitation.
CT scan-based modelling of anastomotic leak risk after colorectal surgery.	Prolonged ileus, low-grade fever and abdominal discomfort are common during the first week after colonic resection. Undiagnosed anastomotic leak carries a poor outcome and computed tomography (CT) scan is the best imaging tool for assessing postoperative abdominal complications. We used a CT scan-based model to quantify the risk of anastomotic leak after colorectal surgery.
Luminal cysteine-proteases degrade colonic tight junction structure and are responsible for abdominal pain in constipation-predominant IBS.	Luminal serine-proteases lead to increased colonic paracellular permeability and visceral hypersensitivity in patients with diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D). Other proteases, namely cysteine-proteases (CPs), increase airway permeability by digesting epithelial tight junction proteins. In this study, we focused on constipation-predominant IBS (IBS-C) and we aimed to (i) evaluate CP levels in two cohorts of IBS patients, (ii) test if IBS-C fecal supernatant (FSN) affects permeability, and visceral sensitivity after repeated administrations in mice, and (iii) evaluate occludin expression in IBS-C colonic biopsies.
Long non-coding RNA metastasis associated in lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 derived miniRNA as a novel plasma-based biomarker for diagnosing prostate cancer.	Examining plasma RNA is an emerging non-invasive diagnosis technique. However, whether tumour-derived long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in plasma can be used as a novel approach to detect human prostate cancer (PCa) has not yet been established. The study was divided into three parts: (1) the characteristics of PCa-related lncRNA fragments were systematically studied in the plasma or serum of 25 patients; (2) the source of the circulating lncRNA fragments was explored in vitro and in vivo; and (3) the diagnostic performance of metastasis associated in lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (MALAT-1) derived (MD) miniRNA was validated in an independent cohort of 192 patients. The expression levels of lncRNAs were measured by quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The MD-miniRNA copies were calculated using a standard curve in an area under the ROC curve (AUC)-receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Genome-wide profiling revealed that MALAT-1 and prostate cancer gene 3 (PCA3) are overexpressed in PCa tissues. Plasma lncRNAs probably exist in the form of fragments in a stable form. MD-miniRNA enters cell culture medium at measurable levels, and MD-miniRNA derived from human PCa xenografts actually enters the circulation in vivo and can be measured to distinguish xenografted mice from controls. In addition, plasma MD-miniRNA levels are significantly elevated in PCa patients compared to non-PCa patients (p<0.001). At a cut-off of 867.8 MD-miniRNA copies per microlitre of plasma, the sensitivity is 58.6%, 58.6% and 43.5% and the specificity is 84.8%, 84.8% and 81.6% for discriminating PCa from non-PCa, positive biopsy from negative biopsy and positive biopsy from negative biopsy, respectively. We conclude that MD-miniRNA can be used as a novel plasma-based biomarker for PCa detection and can improve diagnostic accuracy by predicting prostate biopsy outcomes. Further large-scale studies are needed to confirm our findings. 
Bilateral evaluation of the hand and wrist in untreated early inflammatory arthritis: a comparative study of ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging.	To compare Doppler ultrasound (US) and 3.0-Tesla magnetic resonance imaging (3.0-T MRI) findings of synovial inflammation in the tendons and joints in an early polyarthritis cohort (patients who presented < 1 year after arthritis onset) using a bilateral hand and wrist evaluation. Also, to evaluate the diagnostic performance of US and MRI findings for rheumatoid arthritis (RA), their ability to predict RA as a diagnostic outcome, and their capacity to improve the accuracy of the 2010 American College of Rheumatology/European League Against Rheumatism (ACR/EULAR) RA classification criteria in early arthritis.
A critical comparison of discrete-state and continuous models of recognition memory: implications for recognition and beyond.	Multinomial processing tree (MPT) models such as the single high-threshold, double high-threshold, and low-threshold models are discrete-state decision models that map internal cognitive events onto overt responses. The apparent benefit of these models is that they provide independent measures of accuracy and response bias, a claim that has motivated their frequent application in many areas of psychological science including perception, item and source memory, social cognition, reasoning, educational testing, eyewitness testimony, and psychopathology. Before appropriate conclusions about a given analysis can be drawn, however, one must first confirm that the model's assumptions about the underlying structure of the data are valid. The current review outlines the assumptions of several popular MPT models and assesses their validity using multiple sources of evidence, including receiver operating characteristics, direct model fits, and experimental tests of qualitative predictions. We argue that the majority of the evidence is inconsistent with these models and that, instead, the evidence supports continuous models such as those based on signal detection theory (SDT). Hybrid models that incorporate both SDT and MPT processes are also explored, and we conclude that these models retain the limitations associated with their threshold model predecessors. The potentially severe consequences associated with using an invalid model to interpret data are discussed, and a simple tutorial and model-fitting tool is provided to allow implementation of the empirically supported SDT model.
Prediction of kidney graft failure using clinical scoring tools.	Donor organ quality is a key determinant of graft function, and considerable efforts have been made to identify donor and transplant factors predicting inferior outcomes. This has resulted in the development of various scoring tools to aid in allocation of kidneys.
CYP3A4-catalyzed simvastatin metabolism as a non-invasive marker of small intestinal health in celiac disease.	Histological examination of duodenal biopsies is the gold standard for assessing intestinal damage in celiac disease (CD). A noninvasive marker of disease status is necessary, because obtaining duodenal biopsies is invasive and not suitable for routine monitoring of CD patients. As the small intestine is a major site of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) activity and also the location of the celiac lesion, we investigated whether patients with active CD display abnormal pharmacokinetics of an orally administered CYP3A4 substrate, simvastatin (SV), which could potentially be used for noninvasive assessment of their small intestinal health.
Validation of automatic contour propagation for 4D treatment planning using multiple metrics.	The aim of this work is to provide insights into multiple metrics clinical validation of deformable image registration and contour propagation methods in 4D lung radiotherapy planning. The following indices were analyzed and compared: Volume Difference (VD), Dice Similarity Coefficient (DSC), Positive Predictive Value (PPV) and Surface Distances (SD). The analysis was performed on three patient datasets, using as reference a ground-truth volume generated by means of Simultaneous Truth And Performance Level Estimation (STAPLE) algorithm from the outlines of five experts. Significant discrepancies in the quality assessment provided by the different metrics in all the examined cases were found. Metrics sensitivity was more evident in presence of image artifacts and particularly for tubular anatomical structures, such as esophagus or spinal cord. Volume Differences did not account for position and DSC exhibited criticalities due to its intrinsic symmetry (i.e. over- and under-estimation of the reference contours cannot be discriminated) and dependency on the total volume of the structure. PPV analysis showed more robust performance, as each voxel concurs to the classification of the propagation, but was not able to detect inclusion of propagated and ground-truth volumes. Mesh distances could interpret the actual shape of the structures, but might report higher mismatches in case of large local differences in the contour surfaces. According to our study, the combination of VD and SD for the validation of contour propagation algorithms in 4D could provide the necessary failure detection accuracy. 
Community-acquired pneumonia during the first post-pandemic influenza season: a prospective, multicentre cohort study.	To determine the aetiology, clinical features and prognosis of CAP during the first post-pandemic influenza season. We also assessed the factors associated with severe disease and tested the ability of a scoring system for identifying influenza A (H1N1)pdm09-related pneumonia.
Urban streets functionality as a tool for urban pollution management.	Pollution derived from traffic can be considered one of the major problems of modern cities. Although considerable efforts have been devoted to gathering information about pollution and its control, little attention has been paid to the analysis of relationships between pollution distribution and town planning. The existence of these relationships would enable better prediction and prevention of pollution through town planning. In this work, an analysis of one pollutant derived from traffic (urban noise) in 27 cities is presented. Non-parametric tests and ROC analyses were employed, using the equivalent sound level (L(eq)) values as the dependent variable. For the characterization of the pollutant, an alternative concept to accessibility is analyzed: the concept of functionality. Results of statistical inferential analysis showed the existence of significant differences between the sound levels of the different category results, confirming that noise is stratified in the studied cities and that the five categories proposed based in the concept of functionality highlight this noise stratification. Moreover, high sensitivity and low non-specificity were obtained by using ROC analysis. Results of this analysis also showed an overall average value of prediction capacity close to 90%. Therefore, because the proposed categories highlight the noise stratification of the studied pollutant in all the towns studied, the functionality concept can be considered an interesting tool for urban planning and for designing pollution prevention policies. Finally, as traffic is a source of other urban pollutants, the concept of functionality may be a new concept for wide environmental pollution management.
Assessment of prostate cancer aggressiveness using dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging at 3 T.	A challenge in the diagnosis of prostate cancer (PCa) is the accurate assessment of aggressiveness.
Pituitary-adrenal function after prolonged glucocorticoid therapy for systemic inflammatory disorders: an observational study.	Glucocorticoid therapy is being used in a wide variety of systemic disorders. Reference papers, published more than 20 years ago, showed no correlation between adrenal insufficiency risk and dose or duration of glucocorticoid therapy.
Adjustment for measurement error in evaluating diagnostic biomarkers by using an internal reliability sample.	Biomarkers are often measured with error due to imperfect lab conditions or temporal variability within subjects. Using an internal reliability sample of the biomarker, we develop a parametric bias-correction approach for estimating a variety of diagnostic performance measures including sensitivity, specificity, the Youden index with its associated optimal cut-point, positive and negative predictive values, and positive and negative diagnostic likelihood ratios when the biomarker is subject to measurement error. We derive the asymptotic properties of the proposed likelihood-based estimators and show that they are consistent and asymptotically normally distributed. We propose confidence intervals for these estimators and confidence bands for the receiver operating characteristic curve. We demonstrate through extensive simulations that the proposed approach removes the bias due to measurement error and outperforms the nave approach (which ignores the measurement error) in both point and interval estimation. We also derive the asymptotic bias of nave estimates and discuss conditions in which nave estimates of the diagnostic measures are biased toward estimates produced when the biomarker is ineffective (i.e., when sensitivity equals 1-specificity) or are anticonservatively biased. The proposed method has broad biomedical applications and is illustrated using a biomarker study in Alzheimer's disease. We recommend collecting an internal reliability sample during the biomarker discovery phase in order to adequately evaluate the performance of biomarkers with careful adjustment for measurement error.
Is the WMS-IV verbal paired associates as effective as other memory tasks in discriminating amnestic mild cognitive impairment from normal aging?	Paired associate learning tasks are reportedly particularly sensitive to preclinical Alzheimer's disease. We aimed to determine the effectiveness of the recently updated Wechsler Memory Scale verbal paired associates (VPA) in distinguishing the earliest stages of memory impairment (amnestic mild cognitive impairment, aMCI), and the clinical application at the case level, compared with other episodic memory tasks. Participants were 77 people with aMCI and 77 matched healthy older adults (HOA). VPA performance distinguished aMCI from HOA at the group level with large effect sizes, of similar size to the other tasks at immediate recall, but smaller than the CVLT-II list-learning task at delayed recall. Similarly, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis demonstrated good discrimination, similar to other tasks, but again with CVLT-II more accurate at delayed recall. Although group differences remained for normative data, on a case basis using existing normative data the VPA failed to identify 70% of aMCI as impaired. The findings suggest further examination of the normative data is required before the VPA is useful in clinical practice, and highlight the importance of comprehensive neuropsychological assessment in detecting mild memory changes in older adults. 
Comparison of three-dimensional echocardiographic findings to those of magnetic resonance imaging for determination of left ventricular mass in patients with ischemic and non-ischemic cardiomyopathy.	The standard echocardiographic evaluation of left ventricular (LV) mass, particularly in ischemic cardiomyopathy (IC) is challenging because it is based on geometric assumptions. The aim of this study was to assess the accuracy of LV mass calculation using echocardiographic modalities compared with cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) in IC and in nonischemic cardiomyopathy (non-IC). Echocardiography was performed in 104 patients (mean age 55  15 years) referred for CMR: 63 with IC and 41 with non-IC. CMR, M-mode echocardiography, 2-dimensional echocardiography, and 3-dimensional echocardiography (3DE) were analyzed using standard commercial tools to obtain LV mass. LV mass on 3DE showed a higher correlation with CMR than 2-dimensional echocardiography (r = 0.87 vs r = 0.70, p <0.001). M-mode echocardiography overestimated LV mass (bias +30%) and 2-dimensional echocardiography underestimated LV mass (bias -11%), whereas measurements on 3DE showed only minimal bias (-2%). LV mass on 3DE in non-IC showed a significantly higher correlation with CMR than in IC (r = 0.92 vs r = 0.84, z = 2.3, p <0.05). In non-IC, the mean difference was -2 g (-1% of the mean), with 95% limits of agreement of 33 g (19% of the mean). In IC, the mean difference was -7 g (-4% of the mean), with limits of agreement of 56 g (31% of the mean). There was a correlation between the absolute LV mass differences (3DE derived and CMR derived) and scar percentage (infarcted mass/total LV mass) using delayed-hyperenhancement images (r = 0.40, p <0.05). The net reclassification index with 3DE was +16% for concentric LV hypertrophy. In conclusion, the most accurate and reliable echocardiographic measurement of LV mass is 3DE, but underestimation and variability remain challenges in IC.
A computational framework for the analysis of peptide microarray antibody binding data with application to HIV vaccine profiling.	We present an integrated analytical method for analyzing peptide microarray antibody binding data, from normalization through subject-specific positivity calls and data integration and visualization. Current techniques for the normalization of such data sets do not account for non-specific binding activity. A novel normalization technique based on peptide sequence information quickly and effectively reduced systematic biases. We also employed a sliding mean window technique that borrows strength from peptides sharing similar sequences, resulting in reduced signal variability. A smoothed signal aided in the detection of weak antibody binding hotspots. A new principled FDR method of setting positivity thresholds struck a balance between sensitivity and specificity. In addition, we demonstrate the utility and importance of using baseline control measurements when making subject-specific positivity calls. Data sets from two human clinical trials of candidate HIV-1 vaccines were used to validate the effectiveness of our overall computational framework. 
Prediction of sickness absenteeism, disability pension and sickness presenteeism among employees with back pain.	The primary aim of this study was to evaluate the predictive ability of the rebro Musculoskeletal Pain Screening Questionnaire (MPSQ) concerning long-term sick leave, sickness presenteeism and disability pension during a follow-up period of 2 years.
Diagnostic usefulness of procalcitonin as a marker of bacteremia in patients with acute pyelonephritis.	Acute pyelonephritis (APN) is one of the most common community-acquired infections and frequently accompanies bacteremia. The purpose of this study was to investigate the diagnostic role of procalcitonin in predicting bacteremia in patients with APN.
Urinary angiotensinogen as a novel marker of obstructive nephropathy in children.	Obstructive nephropathy due to congenital or acquired urinary tract obstruction is one of the most important causes of chronic renal failure in children. There is a need for identification of new noninvasive urinary biomarkers to provide the clinician with fast, specific and reliable diagnostic and prognostic tool. The aim of the study was to determine whether urinary angiotensinogen (uAGT) may be a useful marker of obstruction in children with hydronephrosis (HN) caused by ureteropelvic junction obstruction (UPJO).
Can anti-Mullerian hormone predict the diagnosis of polycystic ovary syndrome? A systematic review and meta-analysis of extracted data.	Existing biochemical tests for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) have poor sensitivity and specificity. Many women with PCOS have high anti-Mllerian hormone (AMH) concentrations; thus, this may be a useful addition to the diagnostic criteria.
Plasma cell-free DNA and its DNA integrity as biomarker to distinguish prostate cancer from benign prostatic hyperplasia in patients with increased serum prostate-specific antigen.	To investigate whether plasma cell-free DNA (cfDNA) or its integrity could differentiate prostate cancer from benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) in patients with serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA)  4 ng/ml.
COMFORT behaviour scale and skin conductance activity: what are they really measuring?	To assess how efficiently the COMFORT behaviour scale measures acute pain in neonates, in comparison with skin conductance activity, a validated measure of pain and stress.
The relevance of EGFR overexpression for the prediction of the malignant transformation of oral leukoplakia.	The present study evaluated the relevance of EGFR overexpression in prediction of malignant transformation of oral leukoplakia (OLP). The retrospective study comprised paraffin-embedded tissue samples of OLP that transformed into oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) (n=53) and tissue samples of OLP that did not transform into OSCC (n=45) during a follow-up period of 5 years. EGFR overexpression was assessed immunohistochemically. A significantly different expression rate of EGFR was determined between transformed and non-transformed OLP (p=0.017). A statistically significant increase of EGFR expression for low dysplasia lesions in group I compared to group II was proven (D0, p=0.013; D1, p=0.049). By calculation of ROC curve and determination of highest Youden index the optimal threshold value [cut-off point (COP) = 44.96] for distinguishing the transformed from non-transformed lesions was estimated (critical expression rate of EGFR). Using the determined COP the correlation between high-risk lesions and the detection of increased expression rates were significant (p=0.001). In the future, the assessment of EGFR overexpression in OLP may allow identifying OLP lesions with an increased risk of malignant transformation that may have been regarded harmless when only the grade of dysplasia had been taken into account.
Reliability, completeness and accuracy of cleft subphenotyping as recorded on the CLEFTSiS (Cleft Service in Scotland) electronic patient record.	The CLEFTSiS (Cleft Service in Scotland) electronic patient record (EPR) contains pre-surgical photographs among other records and this study proposes to assess the reliability of diagnosis and accuracy of the type and extent of cleft.
Circulating BRAFV600E in the diagnosis and follow-up of differentiated papillary thyroid carcinoma.	Cell-free nucleic acids circulating in plasma are considered a promising noninvasive tool for cancer monitoring. BRAF(V600E) mutation in cell-free DNA (cfDNA) could represent an appropriate marker for papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC).
Mortality prediction of rats in acute hemorrhagic shock using machine learning techniques.	This study sought to determine a mortality prediction model that could be used for triage in the setting of acute hemorrhage from trauma. To achieve this aim, various machine learning techniques were applied using the rat model in acute hemorrhage. Thirty-six anesthetized rats were randomized into three groups according to the volume of controlled blood loss. Measurements included heart rate (HR), systolic and diastolic blood pressures (SBP and DBP), mean arterial pressure, pulse pressure, respiratory rate, temperature, blood lactate concentration (LC), peripheral perfusion (PP), shock index (SI, SI = HR/SBP), and a new hemorrhage-induced severity index (NI, NI = LC/PP). NI was suggested as one of the good candidates for mortality prediction variable in our previous study. We constructed mortality prediction models with logistic regression (LR), artificial neural networks (ANN), random forest (RF), and support vector machines (SVM) with variable selection. The SVM model showed better sensitivity (1.000) and area under curve (0.972) than the LR, ANN, and RF models for mortality prediction. The important variables selected by the SVM were NI and LC. The SVM model may be very helpful to first responders who need to make accurate triage decisions and rapidly treat hemorrhagic patients in cases of trauma.
Differentiation of malignant and benign pulmonary nodules with first-pass dual-input perfusion CT.	To assess diagnostic performance of dual-input CT perfusion for distinguishing malignant from benign solitary pulmonary nodules (SPNs).
Accuracy of pupil assessment for the detection of glaucoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	To assess the accuracy of using pupillary light reflex (PLR) in detecting glaucoma.
Feasibility study of adjuvant chemotherapy of S-1 and carboplatin for completely resected non-small cell lung cancer.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and compliance of adjuvant chemotherapy of S-1 plus carboplatin for patients with completely resected non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) of pathological stage IB-IIIB.
Is 18F-FDG PET/CT useful for distinguishing between primary thyroid lymphoma and chronic thyroiditis?	This study aims to investigate the usefulness of (18)F-FDG PET/CT for distinguishing between primary thyroid lymphoma (PTL) and chronic thyroiditis.
Blood glucose as a predictor of mortality in children admitted to the hospital with febrile illness in Tanzania.	Data from a prospective study of 3,319 children ages 2 months to 5 years admitted with febrile illness to a Tanzanian district hospital were analyzed to determine the relationship of blood glucose and mortality. Hypoglycemia (blood sugar < 2.5 mmol/L and < 45 mg/dL) was found in 105 of 3,319 (3.2%) children at admission, and low-normal blood glucose (2.5-5 mmol/L and 45-90 mg/dL) was found in 773 of 3,319 (23.3%) children. Mortality was inversely related to admission blood sugar; compared with children with an admission blood glucose of > 5 mmol/L, the adjusted odds of dying were 3.3 (95% confidence interval = 2.1-5.2) and 9.8 (95% confidence interval = 5.1-19.0) among children with admission blood glucose 2.5-5 and < 2.5 mmol/L, respectively. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis suggested an optimal cutoff for admission blood sugar of < 5 mmol/L in predicting mortality (sensitivity = 57.7%, specificity = 75.2%). A cutoff for admission blood glucose of < 5 mmol/L represents a simple and clinically useful predictor of mortality in children admitted with severe febrile illness to hospital in resource-poor settings.
Profiling of the calcitonin-calcitonin receptor axis in primary prostate cancer: clinical implications and molecular correlates.	Expression of the neuroendocrine peptide calcitonin (CT) and its receptor (CTR) is frequently elevated in prostate cancers (PCs), and activation of the CT-CTR axis in non-invasive PC cells induces an invasive phenotype. We aimed to link CT/CTR expression in prostate specimens to clinicopathological parameters of PC. We analyzed CT and CTR expression in cohorts of benign prostates and primary PCs with/without metastatic disease by immunohistochemistry. Furthermore, we correlated CT/CTR expression with several clinicopathological parameters. CT/CTR immunostaining in benign prostate acini was predominantly localized to basal epithelium. However, this spatial specificity was lost in malignant prostates. PC sections displayed a remarkable increase in cell populations expressing CT/CTR and their staining intensity. Tumors with higher CT/CTR expression consistently displayed metastatic disease and poor clinical outcome. High CT/CTR expression in primary prostate tumors may serve as a prognostic indicator of disease aggressiveness and poor clinical outcome. 
Fatigue as prognostic risk marker of mental sickness absence in white collar employees.	To investigate fatigue as prognostic risk marker for identifying working employees at risk of long-term sickness absence (SA).
New clinical grading scales and objective measurement for conjunctival injection.	To establish a new clinical grading scale and objective measurement method to evaluate conjunctival injection.
Intact parathyroid hormone measurement at 24 hours after thyroid surgery as predictor of parathyroid function at long term.	There is no consensus about the usefulness of postoperative intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH) determination to predict permanent hypoparathyroidism (pHPP). We evaluated the value of calcium (Ca2+) and iPTH concentration at 24 hours after total thyroidectomy (TT) for predicting pHPP.
Monitoring the nociception level: a multi-parameter approach.	The aim of the present study was to develop and validate an objective index for nociception level (NoL) of patients under general anesthesia, based on a combination of multiple physiological parameters. Twenty-five patients scheduled for elective surgery were enrolled. For clinical reference of NoL, the combined index of stimulus and analgesia was defined as a composite of the surgical stimulus level and a scaled effect-site concentration of opioid. The physiological parameters heart rate, heart rate variability (0.15-0.4Hz band power), plethysmograph wave amplitude, skin conductance level, number of skin conductance fluctuations, and their time derivatives, were extracted. Two techniques to incorporate these parameters into a single index representing the NoL have been proposed: NoLlinear, based on an ordinary linear regression, and NoLnon-linear, based on a non-linear Random Forest regression. NoLlinear and NoLnon-linear significantly increased after moderate to severe noxious stimuli (Wilcoxon rank test, p<0.01), while the individual parameters only partially responded. Receiver operating curve analysis showed that NoL index based on both techniques better discriminated noxious and non-noxious surgical events [area under curve (AUC)=0.97] compared with individual parameters (AUC=0.56-0.74). NoLnon-linear better ranked the level of nociception compared with NoLlinear (R=0.88 vs. 0.77, p<0.01). These results demonstrate the superiority of multi-parametric approach over any individual parameter in the evaluation of nociceptive response. In addition, advanced non-linear technique may have an advantage over ordinary linear regression for computing NoL index. Further research will define the usability of the NoL index as a clinical tool to assess the level of nociception during general anesthesia. 
The impact of number of drugs prescribed on the risk of potentially inappropriate medication among outpatient older adults with chronic diseases.	Older patients with chronic diseases often take multiple prescription drugs, increasing their risk of adverse health events. However, polypharmacy remains ill-defined.
Age-adjusted D-dimer cut-offs to diagnose thromboembolic events: validation in an emergency department]	In elderly patients, an unspecific increase of fibrin degradation products in blood is observed. Thus, the D-dimer test to rule out thromboembolic events has a high false-positive rate in elderly patients. Our aim was to validate an age-adjusted D-dimer cut-off and to assess its utility in elderly patients.
Psychometric properties and validation of the Standard Patient Evaluation of Eye Dryness questionnaire.	To characterize the psychometric properties of the standard patient evaluation of eye dryness (SPEED) questionnaire and to validate and compare its performance with 4 existing dry eye questionnaires.
Diagnostic performance of four point of care cardiac troponin I assays to rule in and rule out acute myocardial infarction.	This study evaluated the diagnostic performance of four point-of-care (POC) cardiac troponin I (cTnI) assays compared to a central laboratory cTnI assay for detecting myocardial injury and diagnosing acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
Serum concentrations of A disintegrin and metalloproteinase 9 (ADAM9) mRNA as a promising novel marker for the detection of pulmonary sarcoidosis.	This prospective study investigated the potential role of serum A disintegrin and metalloproteinase 9 (ADAM9) mRNA in the differential diagnosis of pulmonary sarcoidosis from other diseases with similar clinical presentations, such as tuberculosis (TB).
The effect of pre-adapting light intensity on dark adaptation in early age-related macular degeneration.	This study aimed to identify the pre-adapting light intensity that generated the maximum separation in the parameters of dark adaptation between participants with early age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and healthy control participants in the minimum recording time.
Factors associated with clinically significant insomnia among pregnant low-income Latinas.	Poor sleep, common during pregnancy, is associated with negative health risks. The study aimed to identify predictors of clinically significant insomnia among pregnant Latinas.
Diagnostic accuracy of neutrophil CD64 expression in neonatal infection: a meta-analysis.	The aim of the present study was to establish the predictive values of neutrophil CD64 expression in diagnosing neonatal infection.
Age estimation based on pulp cavity to tooth volume ratio using postmortem computed tomography images.	Pulp cavity size is known to decrease with age and can therefore serve as an indicator for age estimation. Here, we evaluated whether reconstructed images of multidetector-row computed tomography (MDCT) acquired before forensic autopsy are useful for estimating age at death. Images of 136 mandibular first premolars obtained from bodies of known age at death were analyzed, and the volume of the regions corresponding to pulp cavity and that of the whole tooth were determined using a voxel counting function. The pulp cavity was clearly distinguishable from dental hard tissue on the reconstructed images when using a cutoff value of 1400 Hounsfield units. Regression analysis adjusted for sex showed that estimated age correlated significantly with the pulp cavity to tooth volume ratio (r = 0.76). MDCT is gaining more widespread use in forensic medicine, and analyzing dental images to obtain parameters for age prediction is a practical approach for postmortem identification.
Initial clinical validation of an embedded performance validity measure within the automated neuropsychological metrics (ANAM).	The measurement of effort and performance validity is essential for computerized testing where less direct supervision is needed. The clinical validation of an Automated Neuropsychological Metrics-Performance Validity Index (ANAM-PVI) was examined by converting ANAM test scores into a common metric based on their relative infrequency in an outpatient clinic sample with presumed good effort. Optimal ANAM-PVI cut-points were determined using receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve analyses and an a priori specificity of 90%. Sensitivity/specificity was examined in available validation samples (controls, simulators, and neurorehabilitation patients). ANAM-PVI scores differed between groups with simulators scoring the highest. ROC curve analysis indicated excellent discriminability of ANAM-PVI scores 5 to detect simulators versus controls (area under the curve = 0.858; odds ratio for detecting suboptimal performance = 15.6), but resulted in a 27% false-positive rate in the clinical sample. When specificity in the clinical sample was set at 90%, sensitivity decreased (68%), but was consistent with other embedded effort measures. Results support the ANAM-PVI as an embedded effort measure and demonstrate the value of sample-specific cut-points in groups with cognitive impairment. Examination of different cut-points indicates that clinicians should choose sample-specific cut-points based on sensitivity and specificity rates that are most appropriate for their patient population with higher cut-points for those expected to have severe cognitive impairment (e.g., dementia or severe acquired brain injury). 
Doppler pulsatility index in spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage.	Elevated intracranial pressure (ICP) as a result of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) and perihematomal edema often leads to tissue shift, which can be identified in cross-sectional imaging and presents a known predictor of functional outcome. Pulsatility indices (PIs) of the intracranial arteries as measured by transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) may serve as surrogate parameters for ICP. This study aims to investigate whether PI correlates with ICP and midline shift and serves as a reliable predictor of functional outcome in patients with ICH.
Elevated serum levels of endocan in patients with psoriasis vulgaris: correlations with cardiovascular risk and activity of disease.	Psoriasis vulgaris is an inflammatory disease characterized by epidermal hyperproliferation, leucocyte adhesion molecule expression and leucocyte infiltration. Psoriasis is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Endothelial dysfunction is widely regarded as being the initial process in the development of atherosclerosis. Human endothelial cell-specific molecule-1 (endocan) is a novel human endothelial cell-specific molecule. Previous studies suggested that endocan may be a novel endothelial dysfunction marker.
Sudoscan, a noninvasive tool for detecting diabetic small fiber neuropathy and autonomic dysfunction.	Sudomotor dysfunction may be an early detectable abnormality in diabetic small fiber neuropathy. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of Sudoscan (Impeto Medical, Paris, France) in detecting diabetic neuropathy (DN), in comparison with other standardized tests, in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM).
A critical evaluation of the lateralizing significance of material-specific memory deficits in patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis.	To critically assess the value of material-specific memory deficits in lateralizing temporal lobe dysfunction preoperatively, we compared the neuropsychological data of 50 consecutive patients with unilateral mesial temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis (MTLE-HS; right: 31, left: 19) with those of 50 age- and education-matched healthy control subjects. On case-control comparison, both the subcohorts with left and right MTLE-HS performed poorly on intelligence tests, in addition to individual memory tests. However, comparison of the verbal and visual memory functions between subcohorts with right and left MTLE-HS revealed that learning trials and delayed word list recall were the only tests that hypothesized left temporal lobe dysfunction. We conclude that material-specific memory deficits are largely test driven, but there is a lateralizing role for task-specific deficits in left MTLE-HS. Although neuropsychological data help to define baseline neuropsychological impairment, caution should be exercised in interpreting the lateralizing value of material-specific memory deficits prior to surgery. 
Simulation and assessment of realistic breast lesions using fractal growth models.	A new method of generating realistic three dimensional simulated breast lesions known as diffusion limited aggregation (DLA) is presented, and compared with the random walk (RW) method. Both methods of lesion simulation utilize a physics-based method for inserting these simulated lesions into 2D clinical mammogram images that takes into account the polychromatic x-ray spectrum, local glandularity and scatter. DLA and RW masses were assessed for realism via a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) study with nine observers. The study comprised 150 images of which 50 were real pathology proven mammograms, 50 were normal mammograms with RW inserted masses and 50 were normal mammograms with DLA inserted masses. The average area under the ROC curve for the DLA method was 0.55 (95% confidence interval 0.51-0.59) compared to 0.60 (95% confidence interval 0.56-0.63) for the RW method. The observer study results suggest that the DLA method produced more realistic masses with more variability in shape compared to the RW method. DLA generated lesions can overcome the lack of complexity in structure and shape in many current methods of mass simulation. 
Length of carotid stenosis predicts peri-procedural stroke or death and restenosis in patients randomized to endovascular treatment or endarterectomy.	The anatomy of carotid stenosis may influence the outcome of endovascular treatment or carotid endarterectomy. Whether anatomy favors one treatment over the other in terms of safety or efficacy has not been investigated in randomized trials.
Factors associated with breastfeeding initiation in adolescent mothers.	To identify the most influential factors on breastfeeding initiation in adolescent mothers in order to identify the highest risk population to focus education and support services.
Telomerase as a potential marker for inflammation and cancer detection in bronchial washing: a prospective study.	The diagnosis of lung cancer remains difficult especially in peripheral tumors, given the absence of relevant markers and of sensitive imaging techniques. Telomerase is a ribonucleotide enzyme responsible for the immortalization of cancerous cells and seems to increase in bronchial aspirates of lung cancer patients. The purpose of our study is to further investigate the value of telomerase measurement in bronchial aspirates as a diagnostic tool for lung cancer.
How valuable is P-wave dispersion in the determination of carboxyhemoglobin levels?	To determine whether or not wave/interval dispersions in electrocardiography (ECG) are increased, and to define whether wave and interval dispersions are correlated with carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) levels.
SAPS 3, APACHE IV or GRACE: which score to choose for acute coronary syndrome patients in intensive care units?	CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVE Acute coronary syndromes (ACS) are a common cause of intensive care unit (ICU) admission. Specific prognostic scores have been developed and validated for ACS patients and, among them, GRACE (Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events) has had the best performance. However, intensive care clinicians generally use prognostic scores developed from heterogeneous populations of critically ill patients, such as APACHE IV (Acute Physiologic and Chronic Health Evaluation IV) and SAPS 3 (Simplified Acute Physiology Score 3). The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare the performance of these three scores in a non-selected population of ACS cases. DESIGN AND SETTING Retrospective observational study to evaluate three prognostic scores in a population of ACS patients admitted to three general ICUs in private hospitals in So Paulo. METHODS All patients with ACS admitted from July 2008 to December 2009 were considered for inclusion in the study. Score calibration and discrimination were evaluated in relation to predicting hospital mortality. RESULTS A total of 1065 patients were included. The calibration was appropriate for APACHE IV and GRACE but not for SAPS 3. The discrimination was very good for all scores (area under curve of 0.862 for GRACE, 0.860 for APACHE IV and 0.804 for SAPS 3). CONCLUSIONS In this population of ACS patients admitted to ICUs, GRACE and APACHE IV were adequately calibrated, but SAPS 3 was not. All three scores had very good discrimination. GRACE and APACHE IV may be used for predicting mortality risk among ACS patients. 
Assessment of psychometric properties of Persian version of Perceived Socio-cultural Pressure Scale (PSPS).	To generate the Persian version of the Perceived Socio-cultural Pressure Scale.
CYFRA21-1 as a serum tumor marker for follow-up patients with squamous cell lung carcinoma and oropharynx squamous cell carcinoma.	To evaluate serum soluble fragments of cytokeratin 19 (i.e., CYFRA21-1) as a tumor marker for patients with squamous cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) and oropharynx squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC).
Assessing the accuracy and certainty in interpreting chest X-rays in the medical division.	The chest X-ray (CXR) is an important diagnostic tool in diagnosing and monitoring a spectrum of diseases. Despite our universal reliance on the CXR, our ability to confidently diagnose and accurately document our findings can be unreliable. We sought to assess the diagnostic accuracy and certainty of making a diagnosis based on 10 short clinical histories with one CXR each. We conclude from our study that specialist registrars (StRs) and consultants scored the highest marks with the highest average certainty levels. Junior trainees felt least certain about making their diagnosis and were less likely to be correct. We recommend that StRs and consultants review all the CXRs requested to ensure accuracy of diagnosis. There also needs to be discussion with the Joint Royal Colleges of Physicians Training Board (JRCPTB) about the need of including a separate CXR competency as part of a trainee's generic curriculum on the e-portfolio, something which is currently lacking. 
Is routine preoperative spirometry necessary in elderly patients undergoing laparoscopy-assisted gastrectomy?	To identify predictors of postoperative pulmonary complications (PPCs) in patients aged  60 years who underwent laparoscopy-assisted gastrectomy (LAG), and to examine the value of preoperative spirometry to predict PPCs.
The relationship between the diagnosis method of neuronal dysfunction (DIMENSION) and brain pathology in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease.	To examine whether the diagnosis method of neuronal dysfunction (DIMENSION), a new electroencephalogram (EEG) analysis method, reflected pathological changes in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we conducted a comparative study of cerebrospinal fluid markers and single-photon emission computed tomography.
Comparison between prostate specific antigen and acid phosphatase for detection of semen in vaginal swabs from raped women.	To compare the effectiveness of the prostate specific antigen (PSA) test and the acid phosphatase (AP) test for semen detection in human vaginal samples.
Prediction of fetal acidemia in placental abruption.	To determine the major predictive factors for fetal acidemia in placental abruption.
Risk of malignancy index validity assessment in premenopausal and postmenopausal women with adnexal tumors.	The aim of this study was to investigate the validity of the risk of malignancy index (RMI) in premenopausal and postmenopausal patients with adnexal masses.
Increased red cell distribution width level is associated with absence of coronary collateral vessels in patients with acute coronary syndromes.	Several studies have evaluated a relationship between increased red cell distribution width (RDW) and morbidity and mortality of acute coronary syndrome (ACS). In this study, we aimed to investigate the association of serum RDW levels and development of coronary collateral vessel (CCV) in patients with ACS.
Influence of obstructive sleep apnea on serum butyrylcholinesterase activity and ischemia-modified albumin levels.	To investigate the effect of obstructive sleep apnea and continuous positive airway pressure treatment on serum butyrylcholinesterase activity and ischemia-modified albumin levels.
A simple and fast non-radioactive bridging immunoassay for insulin autoantibodies.	Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease which results from the destruction of pancreatic beta cells. Autoantibodies directed against islet antigens are valuable diagnostic tools. Insulin autoantibodies (IAAs) are usually the first to appear and also the most difficult to detect amongst the four major islet autoantibodies. A non-radioactive IAA bridging ELISA was developed to this end. In this assay, one site of the IAAs from serum samples is bound to a hapten-labeled insulin (GC300-insulin), which is subsequently captured on anti-GC300 antibody-coated 96-well plates. The other site of the IAAs is bound to biotinylated insulin, allowing the complex to be detected by an enzyme-streptavidin conjugate. In the present study, 50 serum samples from patients with newly diagnosed T1D and 100 control sera from non-diabetic individuals were analyzed with our new assay and the results were correlated with an IAA radioimmunoassay (RIA). Using IAA bridging ELISA, IAAs were detected in 32 out of 50 T1D children, whereas with IAA RIA, 41 out of 50 children with newly diagnosed T1D were scored as positive. In conclusion, the IAA bridging ELISA could serve as an attractive approach for rapid and automated detection of IAAs in T1D patients for diagnostic purposes. 
Bayesian detection of causal rare variants under posterior consistency.	Identification of causal rare variants that are associated with complex traits poses a central challenge on genome-wide association studies. However, most current research focuses only on testing the global association whether the rare variants in a given genomic region are collectively associated with the trait. Although some recent work, e.g., the Bayesian risk index method, have tried to address this problem, it is unclear whether the causal rare variants can be consistently identified by them in the small-n-large-P situation. We develop a new Bayesian method, the so-called Bayesian Rare Variant Detector (BRVD), to tackle this problem. The new method simultaneously addresses two issues: (i) (Global association test) Are there any of the variants associated with the disease, and (ii) (Causal variant detection) Which variants, if any, are driving the association. The BRVD ensures the causal rare variants to be consistently identified in the small-n-large-P situation by imposing some appropriate prior distributions on the model and model specific parameters. The numerical results indicate that the BRVD is more powerful for testing the global association than the existing methods, such as the combined multivariate and collapsing test, weighted sum statistic test, RARECOVER, sequence kernel association test, and Bayesian risk index, and also more powerful for identification of causal rare variants than the Bayesian risk index method. The BRVD has also been successfully applied to the Early-Onset Myocardial Infarction (EOMI) Exome Sequence Data. It identified a few causal rare variants that have been verified in the literature.
Incidence and prevalence of tuberculosis among household contacts of pulmonary tuberculosis patients in a peri-urban population of South Delhi, India.	Tuberculosis (TB), caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, is one of the leading causes of mortality and morbidity across all age groups throughout the world, especially in developing countries.
Use of anti-granulocyte scintigraphy with 99mTc-labeled monoclonal antibodies for the diagnosis of periprosthetic infection in patients after total joint arthroplasty: a diagnostic meta-analysis.	The accurate diagnosis of periprosthetic joint infections (PJI) is crucial for therapy and the prevention of complications. No diagnostic test of PJI is 100% accurate. The aim of this study was to assess the use of anti-granulocyte scintigraphy using 99 mTc-labeled monoclonal antibodies to diagnose PJI after total joint arthroplasty. A systematic search of all relevant studies published through January 2013 was conducted using the MEDLINE, EMBASE, OVID, and ScienceDirect databases. Observational studies that assessed the accuracy of the anti-granulocyte scintigraphy with monoclonal antibodies or antibody fragments labeled with technetium 99 m in diagnosis for PJI and provided data on specificity and sensitivity were identified. Standard methods recommended for meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy were used. Nineteen studies were eligible for inclusion. The results demonstrated that the area under the summary receiver operator curve was 0.88, and the diagnostic accuracy (Q*) was 0.81. Additionally, the diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) was 18.76 with a corresponding 95% confidence interval of 10.45-33.68. The pooled sensitivity and specificity of the diagnostic method for the diagnosis of PJI were 83% and 79%, respectively, while the pooled positive likelihood ratio (PLR) was 3.56, and the negative likelihood ratio (NLR) was 0.26. Anti-granulocyte scintigraphy using 99 mTc-labeled monoclonal antibodies has a reasonable role in the diagnosis of PJI after total joint arthroplasty. Due to the limitations of the present meta-analysis, additional high-quality original studies are required to confirm the predictive value. 
Clinical significance of angiopoietin-like protein 4 expression in tissue and serum of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma patients.	Angiopoietin-like protein 4 (ANGPTL4) has been reported to promote tumor growth, metastasis, and angiogenesis under certain conditions. The aim of this study was to examine ANGPTL4 expression in tumor and serum tissues from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patients. A total of 78 ESCC patients treated with radical resection were enrolled in this study. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect ANGPTL4 expression in ESCC tissues. Serum ANGPTL4 levels were determined via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The receiver operating characteristics curve was constructed to describe diagnostic specificity and sensitivity. There were 52 cases (69.2 %) showing a higher level of ANGPTL4 expression in tumor tissues than that in normal tissues, and the rate of ANGPTL4 protein high/moderate expression in ESCC and normal tissues was 55.1 % (43/78) and 6.4 % (5/78), respectively, with a significant difference (P < 0.001). Moreover, the high/moderate of ANGPTL4 protein was significantly associated with lymph metastasis, clinical stage, and adverse 2-year progression-free survival. In addition, serum ANGPTL4 level in ESCC patients was much higher than that in patients with benign esophageal disease (P < 0.001), and area under the curve was 0.94 (95 % CI 0.886390-0.978173, P < 0.001). But serum ANGPTL4 level was significantly decreased at post-operative 7-10 days (P = 0.004). ANGPTL4 upregulation may play an important role in ESCC development, and serum ANGPTL4 level may be a potential tumor marker for ESCC diagnosis and prognosis.
A comparison of lateral and medial intraparietal areas during a visual categorization task.	Categorization is essential for interpreting sensory stimuli and guiding our actions. Recent studies have revealed robust neuronal category representations in the lateral intraparietal area (LIP). Here, we examine the specialization of LIP for categorization and the roles of other parietal areas by comparing LIP and the medial intraparietal area (MIP) during a visual categorization task. MIP is involved in goal-directed arm movements and visuomotor coordination but has not been implicated in non-motor cognitive functions, such as categorization. As expected, we found strong category encoding in LIP. Interestingly, we also observed category signals in MIP. However, category signals were stronger and appeared with a shorter latency in LIP than MIP. In this task, monkeys indicated whether a test stimulus was a category match to a previous sample with a manual response. Test-period activity in LIP showed category encoding and distinguished between matches and non-matches. In contrast, MIP primarily reflected the match/non-match status of test stimuli, with a strong preference for matches (which required a motor response). This suggests that, although category representations are distributed across parietal cortex, LIP and MIP play distinct roles: LIP appears more involved in the categorization process itself, whereas MIP is more closely tied to decision-related motor actions. 
Intra-articular versus serum C-reactive protein analysis in suspected periprosthetic knee joint infection.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the comparative diagnostic strength of C-reactive protein (CRP) values in synovial fluid and serum in patients with presumed periprosthetic joint infection. We collected 44 synovial fluid samples and 24 serum samples from 43 patients. Patients were judged to be uninfected or infected based on standardized criteria. Synovial and serum samples were obtained simultaneously. We determined the diagnostic strength of our assay by using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, calculated the cutoff value and calculated the difference in diagnostic strength for periprosthetic joint infection between synovial fluid and blood serum analysis. The area under the curve was 0.977 for intra-articular CRP analysis and 0.979 for serum CRP analysis. The cutoff points for intra-articular CRP analysis where 1.8 mg/L and 2.8 mg/L. Both tests showed a very high diagnostic strength; the difference in diagnostic strength between synovial fluid and blood serum analysis was not significant (p = 0.66).
Evaluation of computer-aided detection and diagnosis systems.	Computer-aided detection and diagnosis (CAD) systems are increasingly being used as an aid by clinicians for detection and interpretation of diseases. Computer-aided detection systems mark regions of an image that may reveal specific abnormalities and are used to alert clinicians to these regions during image interpretation. Computer-aided diagnosis systems provide an assessment of a disease using image-based information alone or in combination with other relevant diagnostic data and are used by clinicians as a decision support in developing their diagnoses. While CAD systems are commercially available, standardized approaches for evaluating and reporting their performance have not yet been fully formalized in the literature or in a standardization effort. This deficiency has led to difficulty in the comparison of CAD devices and in understanding how the reported performance might translate into clinical practice. To address these important issues, the American Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM) formed the Computer Aided Detection in Diagnostic Imaging Subcommittee (CADSC), in part, to develop recommendations on approaches for assessing CAD system performance. The purpose of this paper is to convey the opinions of the AAPM CADSC members and to stimulate the development of consensus approaches and "best practices" for evaluating CAD systems. Both the assessment of a standalone CAD system and the evaluation of the impact of CAD on end-users are discussed. It is hoped that awareness of these important evaluation elements and the CADSC recommendations will lead to further development of structured guidelines for CAD performance assessment. Proper assessment of CAD system performance is expected to increase the understanding of a CAD system's effectiveness and limitations, which is expected to stimulate further research and development efforts on CAD technologies, reduce problems due to improper use, and eventually improve the utility and efficacy of CAD in clinical practice. 
Sensitivity and specificity of machine learning classifiers for glaucoma diagnosis using Spectral Domain OCT and standard automated perimetry.	To evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of machine learning classifiers (MLCs) for glaucoma diagnosis using Spectral Domain OCT (SD-OCT) and standard automated perimetry (SAP).
Performance of experienced dentists in Switzerland after an e-learning program on ICDAS occlusal caries detection.	This study aimed to evaluate the effect of an e-learning program on the validity and reproducibility of the International Caries Detection and Assessment System (ICDAS) in detecting occlusal caries. For the study, 170 permanent molars were selected. Four dentists in Switzerland who had no previous contact with ICDAS examined the teeth before and after the e-learning program and scored the sites according to ICDAS. Teeth were histologically prepared and assessed for caries extension. The significance level was set at 0.05. Sensitivity before and after the e-learning program was 0.80 and 0.77 (D1), 0.72 and 0.63 (D2), and 0.74 and 0.67 (D3,4), respectively. Specificity was 0.64 and 0.69 (D1), 0.70 and 0.81 (D2), and 0.81 and 0.87 (D3,4). A McNemar test did not show any difference between the values of sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and area under the ROC curve (AUC) before and after the e-learning program. The averages of wK values for interexaminer reproducibility were 0.61 (before) and 0.66 (after). Correlation with histology presented wK values of 0.62 (before) and 0.63 (after). A Wilcoxon test showed a statistically significant difference between before and after the e-learning program. In conclusion, even though ICDAS performed well in detecting occlusal caries, the e-learning program did not have any statistically significant effect on its performance by these experienced dentists. 
Chain-RNA: a comparative ncRNA search tool based on the two-dimensional chain algorithm.	Noncoding RNA (ncRNA) identification is highly important to modern biology. The state-of-the-art method for ncRNA identification is based on comparative genomics, in which evolutionary conservations of sequences and secondary structures provide important evidence for ncRNA search. For ncRNAs with low sequence conservation but high structural similarity, conventional local alignment tools such as BLAST yield low sensitivity. Thus, there is a need for ncRNA search methods that can incorporate both sequence and structural similarities. We introduce chain-RNA, a pairwise structural alignment tool that can effectively locate cross-species conserved RNA elements with low sequence similarity. In chain-RNA, stem-loop structures are extracted from dot plots generated by an efficient local-folding algorithm. Then, we formulate stem alignment as an extended 2D chain problem and employ existing chain algorithms. Chain-RNA is tested on a data set containing annotated ncRNA homologs and is applied to novel ncRNA search in a transcriptomic data set. The experimental results show that chain-RNA has better tradeoff between sensitivity and false positive rate in ncRNA prediction than conventional sequence similarity search tools and is more time efficient than structural alignment tools. The source codes of chain-RNA can be downloaded at http://sourceforge.net/projects/chain-rna/ or at http://www.cse.msu.edu/~leijikai/chain-rna/. 
Identifying crash-prone traffic conditions under different weather on freeways.	Understanding the relationships between traffic flow characteristics and crash risk under adverse weather conditions will help highway agencies develop proactive safety management strategies to improve traffic safety in adverse weather conditions.
AST/ALT ratio is not an index of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C when aminotransferase activities are determinate according to the international recommendations.	The aspartate aminotransferase activity (AST)/alanine aminotransferase activity (ALT) ratio is used as liver fibrosis index whereas the reported data are conflicting. In chronic hepatitis C (CHC), reported diagnostic accuracies range from none to good for significant fibrosis and to excellent for cirrhosis. Assuming that AST/ALT increases are mainly due to vitamin B6 defects since pyridoxal phosphate (PLP), active form of B6, acts as coenzyme in transamination reactions, we evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of the AST/ALT ratio using standardized methods for AST and ALT activities, with PLP addition as recommended, in a prospective multicenter cohort of CHC patients.
PSA enzymatic activity: a new biomarker for assessing prostate cancer aggressiveness.	With the advent of widespread prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing in recent decades, prostate cancer (PCa) has emerged as the most frequently diagnosed non-skin cancer among men in the U.S. and Europe. Greater screening rates coupled with improved detection methods have caused a controversial upsurge in the number of men undergoing prostate biopsy and subsequent treatment. However, current diagnostic techniques generally suffer from limited ability to identify which seemingly indolent cancers are biologically aggressive.
Characterising cytokine gene expression signatures in patients with severe sepsis.	Severe sepsis in humans may be related to an underlying profound immune suppressive state. We investigated the link between gene expression of immune regulatory cytokines and the range of illness severity in patients with infection and severe sepsis.
Risk prediction for breast, endometrial, and ovarian cancer in white women aged 50 y or older: derivation and validation from population-based cohort studies.	Breast, endometrial, and ovarian cancers share some hormonal and epidemiologic risk factors. While several models predict absolute risk of breast cancer, there are few models for ovarian cancer in the general population, and none for endometrial cancer.
Protein profiling in hepatocellular carcinoma by label-free quantitative proteomics in two west African populations.	Hepatocellular Carcinoma is the third most common cause of cancer related death worldwide, often diagnosed by measuring serum AFP; a poor performance stand-alone biomarker. With the aim of improving on this, our study focuses on plasma proteins identified by Mass Spectrometry in order to investigate and validate differences seen in the respective proteomes of controls and subjects with LC and HCC.
Predicting 7-day survival using heart rate variability in hospice patients with non-lung cancers.	A simple and accurate survival prediction tool can facilitate decision making processes for hospice patients with advanced cancers. The objectives of this study were to explore the association of cardiac autonomic functions and survival in patients with advanced cancer and to evaluate the prognostic value of heart rate variability (HRV) in 7-day survival prediction.
HIV DNA reservoir increases risk for cognitive disorders in cART-nave patients.	Cognitive impairment remains frequent in HIV, despite combination antiretroviral therapy (cART). Leading theories implicate peripheral monocyte HIV DNA reservoirs as a mechanism for spread of the virus to the brain. These reservoirs remain present despite cART. The objective of this study was to determine if the level of HIV DNA in CD14(+) enriched monocytes predicted cognitive impairment and brain injury.
Decreased interhemispheric coordination in treatment-resistant depression: a resting-state fMRI study.	Previous studies have demonstrated that patients with treatment-resistant depression (TRD) and treatment-sensitive depression (TSD) differed at neural level. However, it remains unclear if these two subtypes of depression differ in the interhemispheric coordination. This study was undertaken for two purposes: (1) to explore the differences in interhemispheric coordination between these two subtypes by using the voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity (VMHC) method; and (2) to determine if the difference of interhemispheric coordination can be used as a biomarker(s) to differentiate TRD from both TSD and healthy subjects (HS).
Diagnostic value of stool DNA testing for multiple markers of colorectal cancer and advanced adenoma: a meta-analysis.	The diagnostic value of stool DNA (sDNA) testing for colorectal neoplasms remains controversial. To compensate for the lack of large-scale unbiased population studies, a meta-analysis was performed to evaluate the diagnostic value of sDNA testing for multiple markers of colorectal cancer (CRC) and advanced adenoma.
Urinary low-molecular-weight protein excretion in pediatric idiopathic nephrotic syndrome.	Minimal change disease (MCD) and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) are the most common causes of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (INS). We have evaluated the reliability of urinary neutrophil-gelatinase-associated lipocalin (uNGAL), urinary alpha1-microglobulin (u1M) and urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (uNAG) as markers for differentiating MCD from FSGS. We have also evaluated whether these proteins are associated to INS relapses or to glomerular filtration rate (GFR).
Utility and importance of accurate Hb A2 measurements for defining a strategy for -thalassemia screening: experience in the Balearic Islands, Spain.	The high heterogeneity in regional profiles of -thalassemia (-thal) mutations highlights the need for population-specific carrier detection strategies. Our aim was to analyze the relationship between hematological values and (0) and (+) mutations in 154 Balearic -thal heterozygotes, in order to establish the most optimized mutation carrier detection strategy to be used to manage the disease in our population. The Hb A2 level was the best parameter for discriminating between both types of carriers. Taking into account the cut-off point value of 4.85% (Hb A2), obtained by a receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, we proposed an algorithm that would use a real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) hybridization probe assay technique to detect one of the two most common mutations in the Balearic population, namely codon 39 (C>T) and IVS-I-110 (G>A), depending on the Hb A2 value of the patient. 
Utility of obesity indices in screening Chinese postmenopausal women for metabolic syndrome.	Although a variety of indices have been used to assess obesity, which is closely associated with the development of metabolic syndrome (MetS), the best indicator of the effects of fat accumulation on Chinese postmenopausal women is still uncertain. Thus, the objectives of this study were to analyze the potential of different obesity indices and to explore which index is best for predicting MetS in Chinese postmenopausal women.
Performance of serum -fetoprotein levels in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with a hepatic mass.	The role of serum -fetoprotein (AFP) measurements in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains controversial. Some guidelines have advised against the use of AFP in the diagnosis of HCC. This study was conducted to evaluate the performance of AFP in the diagnosis of HCC, and to identify the optimal cut-off value of serum AFP in the diagnosis of HCC in patients with a hepatic mass.
High sensitivity and specificity of a new functional flow cytometry assay for clinically significant heparin-induced thrombocytopenia antibodies.	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a life-threatening condition, in which the anticoagulant heparin, platelet factor 4 (PF4), and platelet-activating antibodies form complexes with prothrombotic properties. Laboratory tests to support clinical diagnosis are subdivided into functional, platelet activation assays, which lack standardization, or immunological assays, which have moderate specificity toward HIT. In this study, clinical performance of HITAlert, a novel in vitro diagnostic (IVD) registered platelet activation assay, was tested in a large cohort of HIT-suspected patients and compared with immunological assays.
Cysteine-rich secretory protein 1 in seminal plasma: potential biomarker for the distinction between obstructive and nonobstructive azoospermia.	To investigate the presence of cysteine-rich secretory protein 1 (CRISP1) in seminal plasma as a means of distinguishing between obstructive azoospermia (OA) and nonobstructive azoospermia (NOA).
Brain natriuretic peptide on admission as a biological marker of long-term mortality in ischemic stroke survivors.	We investigated whether brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) can serve as a biological marker of long-term mortality in ischemic stroke survivors.
Role of combined 18F-FDG-PET/CT for predicting the WHO malignancy grade of thymic epithelial tumors: a multicenter analysis.	To investigate the performance of combined (18)F-FDG-PET/CT as a predictor of the WHO-classification based malignancy grade in thymic epithelial tumors.
Traditional and novel bone remodeling markers in premenopausal and postmenopausal women.	Bone turnover markers (BTMs) may identify changes in bone remodeling within a relatively short time interval before changes in bone mineral density can be detected. New markers such as osteoprotegerin, receptor activator of nuclear factor-B ligand, and sclerostin have emerged, but there is little information about their potential use in clinical practice.
Differences in outcome according to Clostridium difficile testing method: a prospective multicentre diagnostic validation study of C difficile infection.	Diagnosis of Clostridium difficile infection is controversial because of many laboratory methods, compounded by two reference methods. Cytotoxigenic culture detects toxigenic C difficile and gives a positive result more frequently (eg, because of colonisation, which means that individuals can have the bacterium but no free toxin) than does the cytotoxin assay, which detects preformed toxin in faeces. We aimed to validate the reference methods according to clinical outcomes and to derive an optimum laboratory diagnostic algorithm for C difficile infection.
Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcomes or creatinine kinetics criteria in acute kidney injury: a proof of concept study.	It has been recently mathematically demonstrated that the percentage increase in serum creatinine (SCr) can delay acute kidney injury (AKI) diagnosis in patients with previous chronic kidney disease (CKD). Based on creatinine (Cr) kinetics, it was suggested a new AKI classification using absolute increase in SCr elevation over specified time periods. However, this classification has not been evaluated in clinical studies.
Using molecular features of xenobiotics to predict hepatic gene expression response.	Despite recent advances in molecular medicine and rational drug design, many drugs still fail because toxic effects arise at the cellular and tissue level. In order to better understand these effects, cellular assays can generate high-throughput measurements of gene expression changes induced by small molecules. However, our understanding of how the chemical features of small molecules influence gene expression is very limited. Therefore, we investigated the extent to which chemical features of small molecules can reliably be associated with significant changes in gene expression. Specifically, we analyzed the gene expression response of rat liver cells to 170 different drugs and searched for genes whose expression could be related to chemical features alone. Surprisingly, we can predict the up-regulation of 87 genes (increased expression of at least 1.5 times compared to controls). We show an average cross-validation predictive area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) of 0.7 or greater for each of these 87 genes. We applied our method to an external data set of rat liver gene expression response to a novel drug and achieved an AUROC of 0.7. We also validated our approach by predicting up-regulation of Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) in three drugs known to induce CYP1A2 that were not in our data set. Finally, a detailed analysis of the CYP1A2 predictor allowed us to identify which fragments made significant contributions to the predictive scores. 
Applying additive logistic regression to data derived from sensors monitoring behavioral and physiological characteristics of dairy cows to detect lameness.	The hypothesis was that sensors currently available on farm that monitor behavioral and physiological characteristics have potential for the detection of lameness in dairy cows. This was tested by applying additive logistic regression to variables derived from sensor data. Data were collected between November 2010 and June 2012 on 5 commercial pasture-based dairy farms. Sensor data from weigh scales (liveweight), pedometers (activity), and milk meters (milking order, unadjusted and adjusted milk yield in the first 2 min of milking, total milk yield, and milking duration) were collected at every milking from 4,904 cows. Lameness events were recorded by farmers who were trained in detecting lameness before the study commenced. A total of 318 lameness events affecting 292 cows were available for statistical analyses. For each lameness event, the lame cow's sensor data for a time period of 14 d before observation date were randomly matched by farm and date to 10 healthy cows (i.e., cows that were not lame and had no other health event recorded for the matched time period). Sensor data relating to the 14-d time periods were used for developing univariable (using one source of sensor data) and multivariable (using multiple sources of sensor data) models. Model development involved the use of additive logistic regression by applying the LogitBoost algorithm with a regression tree as base learner. The model's output was a probability estimate for lameness, given the sensor data collected during the 14-d time period. Models were validated using leave-one-farm-out cross-validation and, as a result of this validation, each cow in the data set (318 lame and 3,180 nonlame cows) received a probability estimate for lameness. Based on the area under the curve (AUC), results indicated that univariable models had low predictive potential, with the highest AUC values found for liveweight (AUC=0.66), activity (AUC=0.60), and milking order (AUC=0.65). Combining these 3 sensors improved AUC to 0.74. Detection performance of this combined model varied between farms but it consistently and significantly outperformed univariable models across farms at a fixed specificity of 80%. Still, detection performance was not high enough to be implemented in practice on large, pasture-based dairy farms. Future research may improve performance by developing variables based on sensor data of liveweight, activity, and milking order, but that better describe changes in sensor data patterns when cows go lame.
Requirements for and impact of a serious game for neuro-pediatric robot-assisted gait training.	We investigated whether children with neurological gait disorders who walked in a driven gait orthosis could adjust their participation level according to the demands of a newly developed rehabilitation game. We further investigated if cognitive capacity and motor impairment influenced game performance. Nineteen children with neurological gait disorders (mean age: 13.4 y, 42% girls) participated. To quantify game participation, electromyographic muscle activity (M. rectus femoris) and heart rate were compared in a demanding part and a less demanding part of the game. Cognitive capacity was assessed with the Test of Nonverbal Intelligence (TONI-4). Furthermore, the Functional Independence Measure for Children (WeeFIM), Manual Muscle Tests and a therapist-derived score of how well the child was able to train were assessed. Results showed that muscle activity and heart rate were higher during the demanding part of the game (30.7  22.6 V; 129.4  15.7 bpm) compared to the less demanding part (16.0  13.4 V; 124.1  15.9 bpm; p<0.01 for both measures). Game performance correlated moderately with the TONI-4 (r=0.50, p=0.04) and the cognition subscale of the WeeFIM (=0.59, p=0.01). The therapist-derived score correlated significantly with game performance (p=0.75, p<0.01) and the ability to modify muscle activity to the demands of the game (p=-0.72, p<0.01). Receiver operating characteristic analyses revealed that the latter factor differentiated well between those children suitable for the game and those not. We conclude that children with neurological gait disorders are able to modify their activity to the demands of the VR-scenario. However, cognitive function and motor impairment determine to which extent. These results are important for clinical decision-making.
Constructing "proper" ROCs from ordinal response data using weighted power functions.	Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis is the standard method for describing the accuracy of diagnostic systems where the decision task involves distinguishing between 2 mutually exclusive possibilities. The popular binormal curve-fitting model usually produces ROCs that are improper in that they do not have the ever-decreasing slope required by signal detection theory. Not infrequently, binormal ROCs have visible hooks that falsely imply worse-than-chance diagnostic differentiation where the curve lies below the no-information diagonal. In this article, we present and evaluate a 2-parameter, weighted power function (WPF) model that always results in a proper ROC curve with a positive, monotonically decreasing slope.
Automated ingestion detection for a health monitoring system.	Obesity is a global epidemic that imposes a financial burden and increased risk for a myriad of chronic diseases. Presented here is an overview of a prototype automated ingestion detection (AID) process implemented in a health monitoring system (HMS). The automated detection of ingestion supports personal record keeping which is essential during obesity management. Personal record keeping allows the care provider to monitor the therapeutic progress of a patient. The AID-HMS determines the levels of ingestion activity from sounds captured by an external throat microphone. Features are extracted from the sound recording and presented to machine learning classifiers, where a simple voting procedure is employed to determine instances of ingestion. Using a dataset acquired from seven individuals consisting of consumption of liquid and solid, speech, and miscellaneous sounds, > 94% of ingestion sounds are correctly identified with false positive rates around 9% based on 10-fold cross validation. The detected levels of ingestion activity are transmitted and stored on a remote web server, where information is displayed through a web application operating in a web browser. This information allows remote users (health provider) determine meal lengths and levels of ingestion activity during the meal. The AID-HMS also provides a basis for automated reinforcement for the patient.
Postgenomics diagnostics: metabolomics approaches to human blood profiling.	We live in exciting times with the prospects of postgenomics diagnostics. Metabolomics is a novel "omics" data-intensive science that is accelerating the development of postgenomics diagnostics, particularly with use of accessible peripheral tissue compartments. Metabolomics involves the study of a comprehensive set of low molecular weight substances (metabolites) present in biological systems. The metabolite profiles represent the molecular phenotype of biological systems and reflect the information encoded at the genomic level and implemented at the transcriptomic and proteomic levels. Analysis of the human blood metabolite profile is a universal and highly promising tool for clinical postgenomics applications because it reflects both the endogenous and exogenous (environmental) factors influencing an individual organism. This article presents a critical synthesis and original analysis of both the technical implementation of metabolic profiling of blood and statistical analysis of metabolite profiles for effective disease diagnostics and risk assessment in the present postgenomics era.
Multivariate pattern analysis of DTI reveals differential white matter in individuals with obsessive-compulsive disorder.	Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies have revealed group differences in white matter between patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and healthy controls. However, the results of these studies were based on average differences between the two groups, and therefore had limited clinical applicability. The objective of this study was to investigate whether fractional anisotropy (FA) of white matter can be used to discriminate between patients with OCD and healthy controls at the level of the individual. DTI data were acquired from 28 OCD patients and 28 demographically matched healthy controls, scanned using a 3T MRI system. Differences in FA values of white matter between OCD and healthy controls were examined using a multivariate pattern classification technique known as support vector machine (SVM). SVM applied to FA images correctly identified OCD patients with a sensitivity of 86% and a specificity of 82% resulting in a statistically significant accuracy of 84% (P  0.001). This discrimination was based on a distributed network including bilateral prefrontal and temporal regions, inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus, superior fronto-parietal fasciculus, splenium of corpus callosum and left middle cingulum bundle. The present study demonstrates subtle and spatially distributed white matter abnormalities in individuals with OCD, and provides preliminary support for the suggestion that that these could be used to aid the identification of individuals with OCD in clinical practice.
Elaborate ligand-based modeling coupled with multiple linear regression and k nearest neighbor QSAR analyses unveiled new nanomolar mTOR inhibitors.	The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) has an important role in cell growth, proliferation, and survival. mTOR is frequently hyperactivated in cancer, and therefore, it is a clinically validated target for cancer therapy. In this study, we combined exhaustive pharmacophore modeling and quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) analysis to explore the structural requirements for potent mTOR inhibitors employing 210 known mTOR ligands. Genetic function algorithm (GFA) coupled with k nearest neighbor (kNN) and multiple linear regression (MLR) analyses were employed to build self-consistent and predictive QSAR models based on optimal combinations of pharmacophores and physicochemical descriptors. Successful pharmacophores were complemented with exclusion spheres to optimize their receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) profiles. Optimal QSAR models and their associated pharmacophore hypotheses were validated by identification and experimental evaluation of several new promising mTOR inhibitory leads retrieved from the National Cancer Institute (NCI) structural database. The most potent hit illustrated an IC50 value of 48 nM. 
Jaw-opening force test to screen for Dysphagia: preliminary results.	To assess the jaw-opening force test (JOFT) for dysphagia screening.
Prediction of thoracic injury severity in frontal impacts by selected anatomical morphomic variables through model-averaged logistic regression approach.	This study resulted in a model-averaging methodology that predicts crash injury risk using vehicle, demographic, and morphomic variables and assesses the importance of individual predictors. The effectiveness of this methodology was illustrated through analysis of occupant chest injuries in frontal vehicle crashes. The crash data were obtained from the International Center for Automotive Medicine (ICAM) database for calendar year 1996 to 2012. The morphomic data are quantitative measurements of variations in human body 3-dimensional anatomy. Morphomics are obtained from imaging records. In this study, morphomics were obtained from chest, abdomen, and spine CT using novel patented algorithms. A NASS-trained crash investigator with over thirty years of experience collected the in-depth crash data. There were 226 cases available with occupants involved in frontal crashes and morphomic measurements. Only cases with complete recorded data were retained for statistical analysis. Logistic regression models were fitted using all possible configurations of vehicle, demographic, and morphomic variables. Different models were ranked by the Akaike Information Criteria (AIC). An averaged logistic regression model approach was used due to the limited sample size relative to the number of variables. This approach is helpful when addressing variable selection, building prediction models, and assessing the importance of individual variables. The final predictive results were developed using this approach, based on the top 100 models in the AIC ranking. Model-averaging minimized model uncertainty, decreased the overall prediction variance, and provided an approach to evaluating the importance of individual variables. There were 17 variables investigated: four vehicle, four demographic, and nine morphomic. More than 130,000 logistic models were investigated in total. The models were characterized into four scenarios to assess individual variable contribution to injury risk. Scenario 1 used vehicle variables; Scenario 2, vehicle and demographic variables; Scenario 3, vehicle and morphomic variables; and Scenario 4 used all variables. AIC was used to rank the models and to address over-fitting. In each scenario, the results based on the top three models and the averages of the top 100 models were presented. The AIC and the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) were reported in each model. The models were re-fitted after removing each variable one at a time. The increases of AIC and the decreases of AUC were then assessed to measure the contribution and importance of the individual variables in each model. The importance of the individual variables was also determined by their weighted frequencies of appearance in the top 100 selected models. Overall, the AUC was 0.58 in Scenario 1, 0.78 in Scenario 2, 0.76 in Scenario 3 and 0.82 in Scenario 4. The results showed that morphomic variables are as accurate at predicting injury risk as demographic variables. The results of this study emphasize the importance of including morphomic variables when assessing injury risk. The results also highlight the need for morphomic data in the development of human mathematical models when assessing restraint performance in frontal crashes, since morphomic variables are more "tangible" measurements compared to demographic variables such as age and gender. 
Elevation of carbohydrate antigen 125 in chronic heart failure may be caused by mechanical extension of mesothelial cells from serous cavity effusion.	The practical application of elevated carbohydrate antigen 125 (CA125) to predict clinical outcome in chronic heart failure (CHF) is under debate. The mechanism for this CA125 elevation remains unknown. We hypothesize that mechanical stress on mesothelial cells initiates CA125 synthesis.
Fluorescence of neutrophil granulocytes as a biomarker for clozapine use.	Non-adherence to medication is a major issue in the treatment of schizophrenia in general and in particular for those treated with clozapine. A reliable tool to quantify patients long-term adherence to clozapine is currently unavailable. Enhanced FL3 neutrophil granulocyte fluorescence was serendipitously observed in a small population of schizophrenic patients treated with clozapine. The present study was aimed at assessing the association between clozapine use and FL3-fluorescence. A cross-sectional study was performed using data from the Utrecht Patient Oriented Database (UPOD). A total of 38,390 inpatients were included, of which 124 (0.33%) used clozapine. FL3-fluorescence was significantly higher (U=240,179, P<0.001) in clozapine users (mean (SD)=90.5 (11.8)) than in non-users (mean (SD)=69.8 (3.3)). Observed FL3-fluorescence was found to increase with increasing clozapine dose. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.95. Our results confirm the association between use of clozapine and elevated FL3-fluorescence. Further research is needed to unravel the underlying mechanism and to investigate the true potential of FL3-fluorescence as a clozapine-adherence biomarker in clinical practice. 
Validation of the Quality of Life Questionnaire of the European Foundation for Osteoporosis-31 in Spanish postmenopausal women.	The Quality of Life Questionnaire of the European Foundation for Osteoporosis-31 (QUALEFFO-31) is a reliable and validated questionnaire that assesses quality of life in osteoporotic women. Our objective was to analyze the reliability and validity of the Spanish version of QUALEFFO-31 and its ability to discriminate between women with osteoporosis and women without osteoporosis in a Spanish postmenopausal population.
EBNA-1 IgG titers in Sardinian multiple sclerosis patients and controls.	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is thought to be triggered by environmental factors acting on a genetic predisposition. Sardinians share a homogeneous genetic background and boast one of the highest MS prevalence worldwide. We investigated Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) antibody prevalence in Sardinian population by ELISA. Our results show a higher serum prevalence of EBNA-1 IgG in MS patients compared to healthy controls. Moreover, analyzing a subset of patients treated for 6 months with IFN-, we observed a decrease in their EBNA-1 specific IgG titers. These results confirm previous findings and strengthen the association between EBV and MS in Sardinia.
Clinical utility of the Colorado Learning Difficulties Questionnaire.	Behavioral disorders are highly comorbid with childhood learning disabilities (LDs), and accurate identification of LDs is vital for guiding appropriate interventions. However, it is difficult to conduct comprehensive assessment of academic skills within the context of primary care visits, lending utility to screening of academic skills via informant reports. The current study evaluated the clinical utility of a parent-reported screening measure in identifying children with learning difficulties.
Acute cellular and antibody-mediated rejection of the pancreas allograft: incidence, risk factors and outcomes.	Antibody-mediated rejection (AMR) after pancreas transplantation is a recently identified entity. We describe the incidence of, risk factors for, and outcomes after AMR, and the correlation of C4d immunostaining and donor-specific antibody (DSA) in the diagnosis of AMR. We retrospectively analyzed 162 pancreas transplants in 159 patients who underwent 94 pancreas allograft biopsies between 2006 and 2009. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to evaluate risk factors for pancreas graft AMR. One-year rejection rates and survival after rejection were calculated by Kaplan-Meier methods. AMR occurred in 10% of patients by 1-year posttransplant. Multivariate risk factors identified for AMR include nonprimary simultaneous pancreas-kidney (SPK) transplant, primary solitary pancreas (PAN) transplant and race mismatch. After pancreas rejection, patient survival was 100% but 20% (8 of 41) of pancreas grafts failed within 1 year. Graft survival after acute cellular rejection (ACR), AMR and mixed rejection was similar. Of biopsies that stained >5% C4d, 80% were associated with increased Class I DSA. In summary, AMR occurs at a measurable rate after pancreas transplantation, and the diagnosis should be actively sought using C4d staining and DSA levels in patients with graft dysfunction, especially after nonprimary SPK and primary PAN transplantation. 
A single slice measure of epicardial adipose tissue can serve as an indirect measure of total epicardial adipose tissue burden and is associated with obstructive coronary artery disease.	To evaluate the practical use of the single slice measurement of epicardial adipose tissue (EAT) at the level of the left main coronary artery (EATLM) in predicting the presence of obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD).
Salivary IL-1 and PGE2 as biomarkers of periodontal status, before and after periodontal treatment.	Interleukin-1 (IL-1) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2 ) are key inflammatory mediators involved in periodontitis. The purpose was to compare their salivary concentrations in relation to periodontal status and their changes after periodontal treatment, to determine their use as non-invasive diagnostic tools.
Left ventricular myocardial performance index change for detection of acute cellular rejection in pediatric heart transplantation.	EMB, the gold standard for diagnosis of ACR, poses unique risks in children. Limited cross-sectional data have associated LV MPI with ACR. We hypothesize that a relative change in MPI from baseline without ACR to the time of ACR will better detect ACR than an absolute threshold LV MPI value. We identified 40 children with ACR 60days post-transplant matching them by age and time from transplantation to 40 children without ACR. There was a significant increase in LV MPI at time of ACR vs. baseline (0.590.17 vs. 0.410.11; p<0.001). There was no difference in LV MPI between baseline and follow-up (0.410.11 vs. 0.420.11; p=0.65). An absolute increase in LV MPI of 0.47 had 82.5% sensitivity and 85% specificity for ACR, whereas an increase in LV MPI from baseline of 20.4% was 90% sensitive and 100% specific. Serial measurement of LV MPI appears to be a sensitive and specific marker of ACR. LV MPI shows good interobserver agreement and increases at the time of EMB-proven ACR with subsequent resolution to baseline measurements upon EMB-proven resolution of ACR. Future studies in larger, prospective cohorts should be undertaken to validate these findings. 
Pattern electroretinogram to detect glaucoma: comparing the PERGLA and the PERG Ratio protocols.	To detect early glaucoma, Porciatti and Ventura suggested in 2004 the pattern electroretinogram (PERG) protocol "PERGLA" with the following features: (1) skin electrodes, (2) steady-state reversal (15 rps) of horizontal 1.6 cpd gratings and (3) Fourier-based analysis. We compared this to our "PERG Ratio" protocol which uses (1) corneal (DTL) electrodes, (2) nearly the same reversal rate, but 2 check sizes of 0.8 and 16 and (3) Fourier-based analysis using the ratio of amplitudes to the 2 check sizes.
Converting between high- and low-sensitivity C-reactive protein in the assessment of periprosthetic joint infection.	Although low-sensitivity CRP (Ls-CRP) is an important tool for evaluating infected orthopedic prostheses, no clinical studies have evaluated whether Hs-CRP is a suitable surrogate for Ls-CRP or other traditional infection biomarkers. The laboratory data of 98 arthroplasty patients with suspected prosthetic infection were reviewed. Hs-CRP was highly correlated with Ls-CRP (R = 0.93). ROC analysis generated 100% sensitivity and 97% specificity for both Hs-CRP and Ls-CRP at optimal cutoffs of 28.6 and 2.6 mg/dL, respectively. Both CRP tests were more accurate than serum erythrocyte sedimentation rate, neutrophil differential, and white blood cell count. Hs-CRP was no different from Ls-CRP after unit conversion, and regression analyses suggested conversion factors that approximated 10. Hs-CRP and Ls-CRP have equivalent utility in the diagnosis of infected joint arthroplasty.
Repeatability of corneal epithelial thickness measurements using Fourier-domain optical coherence tomography in normal and post-LASIK eyes.	To evaluate the repeatability of corneal epithelial thickness (ET) and corneal thickness (CT) measurements in normal eyes and laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK)-treated eyes using optical coherence tomography (RTVue system).
An evidence-based proposal for predicting organ failure in severe acute pancreatitis.	Early, efficient, and accurate evaluation for organ failure is an important step for improving outcome in severe acute pancreatitis (SAP). We aim to develop a method that can early, efficiently, and accurately evaluate the in-hospital organ failure in patients with SAP.
Remote ischemic post-conditioning of the lower limb during primary percutaneous coronary intervention safely reduces enzymatic infarct size in anterior myocardial infarction: a randomized controlled trial.	This study sought to evaluate whether remote ischemic post-conditioning (RIPC) could reduce enzymatic infarct size in patients with anterior ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention (pPCI).
Predicting surgical exploration in renal trauma: assessment and modification of an established nomogram.	This study aimed to externally validate a previously described nomogram that predicts the need for renal exploration in the trauma setting.
Differential immunoglobulin class-mediated responses to components of the U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle in systemic lupus erythematosus and mixed connective tissue disease.	The objective of this paper is to determine whether patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) possess differential IgM- and IgG-specific reactivity against peptides from the U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (U1 snRNP).
High-sensitivity troponin T as a biomarker for the development of atrial fibrillation after cardiac surgery.	Atrial fibrillation (AF) occurs in  30% of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and in 40% of patients after valve surgery. High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (hsTnT) is a specific and high-sensitivity marker of myocardial injury, while N-terminal proB-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) is an established biomarker for wall remodelling. We investigated whether hsTnT and NT-proBNP levels could be used as valuable biomarkers for AF occurrence after cardiac surgery.
Evaluation of stream mining classifiers for real-time clinical decision support system: a case study of blood glucose prediction in diabetes therapy.	Earlier on, a conceptual design on the real-time clinical decision support system (rt-CDSS) with data stream mining was proposed and published. The new system is introduced that can analyze medical data streams and can make real-time prediction. This system is based on a stream mining algorithm called VFDT. The VFDT is extended with the capability of using pointers to allow the decision tree to remember the mapping relationship between leaf nodes and the history records. In this paper, which is a sequel to the rt-CDSS design, several popular machine learning algorithms are investigated for their suitability to be a candidate in the implementation of classifier at the rt-CDSS. A classifier essentially needs to accurately map the events inputted to the system into one of the several predefined classes of assessments, such that the rt-CDSS can follow up with the prescribed remedies being recommended to the clinicians. For a real-time system like rt-CDSS, the major technological challenges lie in the capability of the classifier to process, analyze and classify the dynamic input data, quickly and upmost reliably. An experimental comparison is conducted. This paper contributes to the insight of choosing and embedding a stream mining classifier into rt-CDSS with a case study of diabetes therapy. 
Increased serum asymmetric dimethylarginine level is an independent predictor of contrast-induced nephropathy.	The aim of our study was to evaluate whether serum asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) level is an independent predictor of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN).
Relationship between D-dimer and systemic embolism in patients with infective endocarditis]	The aim of this study was to investigate the value of plasma D-dimer (DD) levels for predicting systemic embolism in patients with infective endocarditis (IE).
Association between neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio and pulmonary arterial hypertension.	Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is composed of a heterogeneous group of disorders marked by increased pulmonary artery resistance leading to right heart failure, with high mortality. Evidence is increasing to propose that inflammation plays a significant role in the pathophysiological mechanism. Increased prevalence of PH in patients with systemic inflammatory diseases is already known. Herein, we sought to evaluate the association between neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (N/L ratio) and pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH).
Effect of calibration method on distortion-product otoacoustic emission measurements at and around 4 kHz.	Distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) collected after sound pressure level (SPL) calibration are susceptible to standing waves that affect measurements at the plane of the probe microphone due to overlap of incident and reflected waves. These standing-wave effects can be as large as 20 dB, and may affect frequencies both above and below 4 kHz. It has been shown that forward pressure level (FPL) calibration minimizes standing-wave effects by isolating the forward-propagating component of the stimulus. Yet, previous work has failed to demonstrate more than a small difference in test performance and behavioral-threshold prediction with DPOAEs after SPL and FPL calibration. One potential limitation in prior studies is that measurements were restricted to octave and interoctave frequencies; as a consequence, data were not necessarily collected at the standing-wave null frequency. In the present study, DPOAE responses were measured with f2 set to each participant's standing-wave frequency in an effort to increase the possibility that differences in test performance and threshold prediction would be observed for SPL and FPL calibration methods.
Discrimination of Parkinsonian tremor from essential tremor using statistical signal characterization of the spectrum of accelerometer signal.	A new technique for discrimination of Parkinson tremor from essential tremor is presented in this paper. This technique is based on Statistical Signal Characterization (SSC) of the spectrum of the accelerometer signal. The data has been recorded for diagnostic purposes in the Department of Neurology of the University of Kiel, Germany. Two sets of data are used. The training set, which consists of 21 essential-tremor (ET) subjects and 19 Parkinson-disease (PD) subjects, is used to obtain the threshold value of the classification factor differentiating between the two subjects. The test data set, which consists of 20 ET and 20 PD subjects, is used to test the technique and evaluate its performance. Three of twelve newly derived SSC parameters show good discrimination results. Specific results of those three parameters on training data and test data are shown in detail. A linear combination of the effects of those parameters on the discrimination results is also included. A total discrimination accuracy of 90% is obtained. 
Diagnostic performance of urinary kidney injury molecule-1 and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin for acute kidney injury in an obstructive nephropathy patient.	We investigated the diagnostic performance of urinary kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1) and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) for acute kidney injury (AKI) in 90 obstructive nephropathy patients.
Splanchnic oxygen saturation immediately after weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass can predict early postoperative outcomes in children undergoing congenital heart surgery.	This study compared the abilities of cerebral, renal, and splanchnic regional oxygen saturation (rSO2) immediately after weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) to predict early postoperative outcomes for children undergoing congenital heart surgery. The study enrolled 73 children (ages 0.1-72 months) undergoing corrective or palliative cardiac surgery requiring CPB. Laboratory and hemodynamic variables were analyzed at the time of successful weaning from CPB. Using near-infrared spectroscopy, cerebral, renal, and splanchnic rSO2 values were obtained simultaneously. Early postoperative outcome measures included the maximum vasoactive inotropic score (VIS(max)) during the first 36 postoperative hours, the duration of mechanical ventilation, and the postoperative hospital length of stay. In the univariate analysis, cerebral, renal, and splanchnic rSO2 values correlated significantly with early postoperative outcomes. However, splanchnic rSO2 was the only independent factor predicting VIS(max) ( = -0.302, P = 0.021), duration of mechanical ventilation ( = -0.390, P = 0.002), and postoperative hospital length of stay ( = -0.340, P = 0.001) by multivariate analyses. Splanchnic rSO2 had a larger receiver operating characteristic area under the curve (AUC) for determining high VIS(max), prolonged mechanical ventilation, and longer postoperative hospital stay (AUC 0.775, 0.792, and 0.776, respectively) than cerebral (AUC 0.630, 0.638, and 0.632, respectively) and renal (AUC 0.703, 0.716, and 0.715, respectively) rSO2. After weaning from CPB, splanchnic rSO2 may be superior to rSO2 measured from brain and kidney in predicting an increased requirement for vasoactive inotropic support, a prolonged mechanical ventilation, and a longer postoperative hospital stay for children.
Comparison of the diagnostic accuracy of the MSLN gene products, mesothelin and megakaryocyte potentiating factor, as biomarkers for mesothelioma in pleural effusions and serum.	The MSLN gene products, soluble mesothelin and megakaryocyte potentiating factor (MPF), are being investigated as biomarkers for the asbestos-related cancer malignant mesothelioma (MM). Pleural fluid biomarkers of MM can be elevated when serum levels remain normal. The aim of this study was to determine if this was true for MPF and to compare levels of mesothelin. Biomarker concentrations were compared in 66 MM patients, 39 patients with other malignancies, 37 with benign disease, 18 asbestos-exposed healthy individuals, and 53 patients with chronic kidney disease. In pleural effusions, MPF and soluble mesothelin concentrations were both significantly elevated in MM patients relative to controls. No significant difference between the area under the receiver operator curve (AUC) for MPF (0.945  0.02) and mesothelin (0.928  0.03) when distinguishing MM from all other causes of effusion was observed. MPF and mesothelin serum concentrations were highly correlated and of equivalent diagnostic accuracy with AUCs of 0.813  0.04 and 0.829  0.03, respectively. Serum levels of both markers increased with decreasing kidney function. In conclusion, MPF is elevated in the pleural effusions of MM patients similar to that of mesothelin. Mesothelin and MPF convey equivalent diagnostic information for distinguishing MM from other diseases in pleural effusions as well as serum. 
Clinical evaluation and cost-effectiveness analysis of serum tumor markers in lung cancer.	The detection of serum tumor markers is valuable for the early diagnosis of lung cancer. Tumor markers are frequently used for the management of cancer patients. However, single markers are less efficient but marker combinations increase the cost, which is troublesome for clinics. To find an optimal serum marker combination panel that benefits the patients and the medical management system as well, four routine lung cancer serum markers (SCCA, NSE, CEA, and CYFRA21-1) were evaluated individually and in combination. Meanwhile, the costs and effects of these markers in clinical practice in China were assessed by cost-effectiveness analysis. As expected, combinations of these tumor markers improved their sensitivity for lung cancer and different combination panels had their own usefulness. NSE + CEA + CYFRA21-1 was the optimal combination panel with highest Youden's index (0.64), higher sensitivity (75.76%), and specificity (88.57%), which can aid the clinical diagnosis of lung cancer. Nevertheless, the most cost-effective combination was SCCA + CEA, which can be used to screen the high-risk group. 
Serum parathyroid hormone levels predict hospitalization in outpatients of heart failure: a preliminary study]	To evaluate the predicative value of serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels in outpatients of heart failure (HF) for hospitalization.
Pseudocholinesterase activity in cerebrospinal fluid as a biomarker of solid central nervous system tumors in children.	To determine the activity of pseudocholinesterase (PChE) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum in children with solid central nervous system (CNS) tumor and to assess whether PChE activity could be a valid biomarker for solid CNS tumors in children.
Retina measurements for diagnosis of Parkinson disease.	To test the diagnostic ability of spectral domain optical coherence tomography for the detection of Parkinson disease using retinal nerve fiber layer and retinal thickness parameters. Retinal pigment epithelium produces levodopa.
Association between -glutamyl transferase and metabolic syndrome: a cross-sectional study of an adult population in Beijing.	The relationship between liver enzymes and clustered components of metabolic syndrome (MetS) is explored and the predictive power of -glutamyl transferase (GGT) for the diagnosis of MetS in an adult population in Beijing is investigated. A total of 10,553 adults aged 20-65 years who underwent health examinations at Beijing Tongren Hospital in 2012 were enrolled in the study. Multivariate logistic regression analysis is conducted to determine the associations between the levels of various liver enzymes and clustered components of MetS. A receiver operating characteristic analysis is used to determine the optimal cut-off value of GGT for the diagnosis of MetS. A high level of GGT is found to be positively associated with clustered components of MetS in both men and women after adjusting for age, body mass index (BMI), history of alcoholic fatty liver, and the presence of taking anti-hypertensive, anti-dyslipidemic, and anti-diabetic drugs. Among all components of MetS, GGT is more predictive of triglyceride, and BMI. The area-under-the-curve values of GGT for discriminating MetS from normal metabolic status in men and women are 0.73 and 0.80, respectively. The optimal cut-off value of GGT for men is 31.50 U/L, demonstrating a sensitivity of 74.00% and specificity of 62.00%. For women, it is 19.50 U/L (sensitivity 76.00% and specificity 70.00%). GGT is therefore recommended as a useful diagnostic marker for MetS, because the test is inexpensive, highly sensitive, and frequently encountered in clinical practice. 
The predictive prognostic values of serum TNF- in comparison to SOFA score monitoring in critically ill patients.	The use of inflammatory markers to follow up critically ill patients is controversial. The short time frame, the need for frequent and serial measurement of biomarkers, the presence of soluble receptor and their relatively high cost are the major drawbacks. Our study's objective is to compare the prognostic values of serum TNF- and SOFA score monitoring in critically ill patients.
Low income and rural county of residence increase mortality from bone and joint sarcomas.	This is a part of a larger effort to characterize the effects on socio-economic factors (SEFs) on cancer outcome. Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Result (SEER) bone and joint sarcoma (BJS) data were used to identify potential disparities in cause specific survival (CSS).
Serum BMP-2 up-regulation as an indicator of poor survival in advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients.	High levels of bone morphogenetic protein (BMPs) have been reported in patients with lung cancer. This study was conducted to assess correlations between serum BMP-2 levels and prognostic outcome in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Acidic pelvic drainage as a predictive factor for anastomotic leakage after surgery for patients with rectal cancer.	To demonstrate the value of sequential determinations of pelvic drainage in the identification of increased risk of anastomotic leakage (AL) after anterior resection for rectal cancer with a double stapling technique.
Alu hypomethylation in smoke-exposed epithelia and oral squamous carcinoma.	Alu elements are one of the most common repetitive sequences that now constitute more than 10% of the human genome and potential targets for epigenetic alterations. Correspondingly, methylation of these elements can result in a genome-wide event that may have an impact in cancer. However, studies investigating the genome-wide status of Alu methylation in cancer remain limited.
Assessment of the plethysmographic variability index as a predictor of fluid responsiveness in critically ill patients: a pilot study.	Optimising intravascular volume in patients with hypotension requiring vasopressor support is a key challenge of critical care medicine. The optimal haemodynamic parameter to assess fluid responsiveness in critically ill patients, particularly those requiring a noradrenaline infusion and mechanical ventilation, remains uncertain. This pilot study assessed the accuracy of the plethysmographic variability index (PVI), (Radical-7 pulse co-oximeter, Masimo, Irvine, CA, USA) in predicting fluid responsiveness in 25 patients who required noradrenaline infusion to maintain mean arterial pressure over 65 mmHg and were mechanically ventilated with a 'lung-protective' strategy, and whether administering a fluid bolus was associated with a change in PVI ( PVI). In this study, fluid responsiveness was defined as an increase in stroke volume of greater than 15% after a 500 ml bolus of colloid infusion over 20 minutes. Of the 25 patients included in the study, only 12 (48%) were considered fluid responders. As static haemodynamic parameters, PVI, central venous pressure and inferior vena cava distensibility index were all inaccurate at predicting volume responsiveness with PVI being the least accurate (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve=0.41, 95% confidence interval 0.18 to 0.65). However, fluid responsiveness was associated with a change in PVI, but not a change in heart rate or central venous pressure. This association between  PVI and fluid responsiveness may be a surrogate marker of improved cardiac output following a fluid bolus and warrants further investigation. 
Adaptive screening for depression--recalibration of an item bank for the assessment of depression in persons with mental and somatic diseases and evaluation in a simulated computer-adaptive test environment.	This study conducted a simulation study for computer-adaptive testing based on the Aachen Depression Item Bank (ADIB), which was developed for the assessment of depression in persons with somatic diseases. Prior to computer-adaptive test simulation, the ADIB was newly calibrated.
Comparison between angiographic and arterial duplex ultrasound assessment of tibial arteries in patients with peripheral arterial disease: on behalf of the Joint Endovascular and Non-Invasive Assessment of LImb Perfusion (JENALI) Group.	Endovascular treatment of peripheral arterial disease (PAD) involving the tibial arteries is becoming an increasingly important part of revascularization. The current anatomical description of vessel patency in tibial arteries does not contribute effectively to therapeutic strategies. The Joint Endovascular and Non-Invasive Assessment of Limb Perfusion (JENALI) score, is a novel scoring system developed to further assess patency of tibial arteries, via both angiography and arterial duplex ultrasonography. A comparison was made between the JENALI score obtained by ultrasound and by angiography. Angiography is currently considered the gold standard of tibial artery imaging.
In-hospital mortality prediction in patients receiving mechanical ventilation in Taiwan.	Few studies have used pooled data for more than 2 years and few have analyzed data for patients receiving mechanical ventilation in Taiwan. Objective To validate the use of an artificial neural network model for predicting in-hospital mortality in patients receiving mechanical ventilation in Taiwan and to compare the predictive accuracy of the artificial neural network model with that of a logistic regression model.
Predictive validity of the Braden scale for patients in intensive care units.	Patients in intensive care units are at higher risk for development of pressure ulcers than other patients. In order to prevent pressure ulcers from developing in intensive care patients, risk for development of pressure ulcers must be assessed accurately.
Detection of antiphosphatidylserine/prothrombin antibodies and their potential diagnostic value.	Antiprothrombin antibodies, measured with phosphatidylserine/prothrombin complex (aPS/PT) ELISA, have been reported to be associated with antiphospholipid syndrome (APS). They are currently being evaluated as a potential classification criterion for this autoimmune disease, characterized by thromboses and obstetric complications. Given the present lack of clinically useful tests for the accurate diagnosis of APS, we aimed to evaluate in-house and commercial assays for determination of aPS/PT as a potential serological marker for APS. We screened 156 patients with systemic autoimmune diseases for antibodies against PS/PT, -glycoprotein I, cardiolipin and for lupus anticoagulant activity. We demonstrated a high degree of concordance between the concentrations of aPS/PT measured with the in-house and commercial assays. Both assays performed comparably relating to the clinical manifestations of APS, such as arterial and venous thromboses and obstetric complications. IgG aPS/PT represented the strongest independent risk factor for the presence of obstetric complications, among all tested aPL. Both IgG and IgM aPS/PT were associated with venous thrombosis, but not with arterial thrombosis. Most importantly, the association between the presence of IgG/IgM aPS/PT and lupus anticoagulant activity was highly significant. Taken together, aPS/PT antibodies detected with the in-house or commercial ELISA represent a promising serological marker for APS and its subsets.
Comparison of a clinic-based ELISA test kit with the immunofluorescence antibody test for assaying Leishmania infantum antibodies in dogs.	This study compares a rapid Immunospecific Kalazar Canine Rapid Spot IF with the gold standard test (indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT)) for detection of Leishmania infantum specific IgG serum antibodies in naturally exposed dogs. Serum samples were obtained from 89 healthy dogs and dogs affected by canine leishmaniosis (CanL). IgG-IFAT titers 80 were considered positive. Anti-L. infantum IgG antibodies were found in 54 samples with titers ranging from 1:80 to 1:5120. The performance of the rapid Immunospecific Kalazar was evaluated using a ROC curve. The area under the ROC curve of 0.957 was significantly different from 0.5 (P < 0.0001), and therefore it can be concluded that the rapid Immunospecific Kalazar has the ability to distinguish canine sera with and without L. infantum IgG. The best performance of the test was at a cutoff >0 (sensitivity 92.6%, specificity 97%). The test can be used for disease screening if the cutoff is >0 (highest sensitivity, 92.6%) and is recommended as confirmatory test for the presence of L. infantum IgG antibodies if the cutoff is set >2 (highest specificity, 100%). 
Effects of the ankle-brachial blood pressure index and skin perfusion pressure on mortality in hemodialysis patients.	Clinically, the ankle-brachial blood pressure index (ABI) and skin perfusion pressure (SPP) are used to screen for subclinical peripheral artery disease. However, the association between the SPP and mortality in hemodialysis patients has not been previously reported. We investigated these factors and compared the ABI and SPP in patients receiving hemodialysis.
Plasma microRNA panel for minimally invasive detection of breast cancer.	Over the last few years, circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as promising novel and minimally invasive markers for various diseases, including cancer. We already showed that certain miRNAs are deregulated in the plasma of breast cancer patients when compared to healthy women. Herein we have further explored their potential to serve as breast cancer early detection markers in blood plasma. Circulating miR-127-3p, miR-376a and miR-652, selected as candidates from a miRNA array-based screening, were found to be associated with breast cancer for the first time (n = 417). Further we validated our previously reported circulating miRNAs (miR-148b, miR-376c, miR-409-3p and miR-801) in an independent cohort (n = 210) as elevated in the plasma of breast cancer patients compared to healthy women. We described, for the first time in breast cancer, an over-representation of deregulated miRNAs (miR-127-3p, miR-376a, miR-376c and miR-409-3p) originating from the chromosome 14q32 region. The inclusion of patients with benign breast tumors enabled the observation that miR-148b, miR-652 and miR-801 levels are even elevated in the plasma of women with benign tumors when compared to healthy controls. Furthermore, an analysis of samples stratified by cancer stage demonstrated that miR-127-3p, miR-148b, miR-409-3p, miR-652 and miR-801 can detect also stage I or stage II breast cancer thus making them attractive candidates for early detection. Finally, ROC curve analysis showed that a panel of these seven circulating miRNAs has substantial diagnostic potential with an AUC of 0.81 for the detection of benign and malignant breast tumors, which further increased to 0.86 in younger women (up to 50 years of age).
Overexpression of COL11A1 by cancer-associated fibroblasts: clinical relevance of a stromal marker in pancreatic cancer.	The collagen11A1 (COL11A1) gene is overexpressed in pancreatic cancer. The expression of COL11A1 protein could be involved in desmoplastic events in pancreatic cancer, but an antibody that specifically stains the COL11A1 protein is not currently available.
Predictive value of the Royal Melbourne Hospital Falls Risk Assessment Tool (RMH FRAT) for post-stroke patients.	Falls after stroke are common and carry a significant disease burden. Several scores aim to identify patients who are at risk of falls to implement primary prevention therapy. The aim of this study was to determine the validity of the commonly used Falls Risk Assessment Tool (FRAT) developed at the Royal Melbourne Hospital (RMH) in 1995 for predicting falls after a stroke. The RMH FRAT was administered within 2 weeks after discharge post-stroke. Occurrence of falls was recorded at 3 and 6 months post-stroke in 202 and 152 patients, respectively. In our study 90% of patients were placed in the RMH FRAT high risk or medium risk group. In these two groups the RMH FRAT did not provide sufficient predictive value.
A new tissue Doppler index to predict cardiac death in patients with heart failure.	It has been shown that a new tissue Doppler index, E/(E'S'), including the ratio between early diastolic transmitral and mitral annular velocity (E/E'), and the systolic mitral annular velocity (S'), has a good accuracy to predict left ventricular filling pressure.
Quantification of hepatic steatosis: a comparison of the accuracy among multiple magnetic resonance techniques.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) are important diagnostic tools for the non-invasive assessment of hepatic steatosis (HS). This study was conducted to compare different magnetic resonance (MR) techniques and correlate the MR findings with histological and intracellular lipid density findings.
Gene expression profile based classification models of psoriasis.	Psoriasis is an autoimmune disease, which symptoms can significantly impair the patient's life quality. It is mainly diagnosed through the visual inspection of the lesion skin by experienced dermatologists. Currently no cure for psoriasis is available due to limited knowledge about its pathogenesis and development mechanisms. Previous studies have profiled hundreds of differentially expressed genes related to psoriasis, however with no robust psoriasis prediction model available. This study integrated the knowledge of three feature selection algorithms that revealed 21 features belonging to 18 genes as candidate markers. The final psoriasis classification model was established using the novel Incremental Feature Selection algorithm that utilizes only 3 features from 2 unique genes, IGFL1 and C10orf99. This model has demonstrated highly stable prediction accuracy (averaged at 99.81%) over three independent validation strategies. The two marker genes, IGFL1 and C10orf99, were revealed as the upstream components of growth signal transduction pathway of psoriatic pathogenesis. 
Difference between supine and upright blood pressure associates to the efficacy of midodrine on postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) in children.	Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is common, and has a serious impact on children's quality of life. Midodrine hydrochloride, an 1-adrenoreceptor agonist, is an effective treatment. The study was designed to examine the therapeutic efficacy of midodrine hydrochloride by quantifying changes in blood pressure during the head-up test (HUT), in children with POTS. Overall, 104 out of 110 children with POTS were treated with midodrine hydrochloride and successfully followed-up. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) changes were analyzed during the HUT. In a retrospective analysis, a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used to analyze the therapeutic predictive value of pre-treatment changes in SBP, DBP, and a combination of both, from the supine position to standing, in the subjects. The increase of SBP and DBP from the supine position to standing in responders were significantly lower than that of the non-responders. The ROC curve showed that midodrine hydrochloride for children with POTS would be predicted to be effective when the pre-treatment increase of SBP was  0 mmHg, or when the pre-treatment increase of DBP was  6.5 mmHg (from the supine position to standing), yielding a sensitivity of 72% and specificity of 88%. The area under the curve was 0.744 and 0.809, respectively. Hence, the results suggested that looking at the changes in blood pressure during the HUT was useful in predicting the response to midodrine hydrochloride in children with POTS.
Variability of M-mode versus two-dimensional echocardiography measurements in children with dilated cardiomyopathy.	M-mode and 2-dimensional (2D) echocardiographic imaging are routinely used to quantify left-ventricular (LV) size and function in pediatric patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). The reproducibility of and correlation between these techniques are unknown. This analysis sought to compare interreader, intrareader, and interacquisition reproducibility of M-mode versus 2D measurements in pediatric DCM patients. The Ventricular Volume Variability study of the Pediatric Heart Network is a multicenter, prospective, observational study assessing the course of chronic DCM in children. Two sonographers performed baseline image acquisitions locally, and two readers performed measurements at the echocardiographic core laboratory. One reader repeated measurements 1month later. These data were used to assess reproducibility and agreement between M-mode and 2D measurements. One hundred sixty-nine subjects were enrolled. M-mode had similar or greater reproducibility in both intrareader and interreader settings for LV dimensions, shortening fraction (SF), and most wall thicknesses. In contrast, 2D reproducibility was similar or better for nearly all variables in the interacquisition setting but not for SF. Interacquisition variability was approximately twice the intrareader variability. LV dimensions by either modality consistently had high reproducibility and had the highest agreement between modalities. In pediatric DCM patients, variability of linear echocardiographic assessment could be minimized by relying on a single reader and using a consistent method (M-mode or 2D) for serial measurements, preferably M-mode when SF is the primary variable of interest. Except for LV dimensions, M-mode and 2D values should not be used interchangeably due to poor agreement. 
Reliability, validity and responsiveness of the cross-culturally adapted Italian version of the core outcome measures index (COMI) for the neck.	Evaluation of the psychometric properties of a cross-culturally adapted questionnaire, the Core Outcome Measurement Index for neck pain (COMI-neck).
Prediction of extraprostatic extension in patients with clinically organ-confined prostate cancer.	Preoperative parameters for predicting extraprostatic extension (ECE) in clinically organ-confined prostate cancer patients are not well defined. Our aim was to evaluate the roles of the biopsy Gleason score, prostate-specific antigen (PSA)-based parameters, volume, and clinical T classification in prediction of ECE.
Possible diagnostic role of antibodies to Crohn's disease peptide (ACP): results of a multicenter study in a Japanese cohort.	Various noninvasive tests have been studied to screen for patients with Crohn's disease (CD), and were found to have limited accuracy and sensitivity, particularly in Asian populations. The aim of our study was to explore the possible diagnostic utility of antibodies to the CD peptide (ACP) in patients with CD.
Reliability of an ELISA test for diagnosing oestrosis in Iberian ibex.	Oestrosis is one of the most prevalent parasitosis affecting the Iberian ibex, Capra pyrenaica . To date, both the diagnosis of oestrosis and the determination of the intensity of parasitism require the use of invasive methods (necropsy), which necessarily limit research possibilities. We analyzed the immune humoral response (IgM and IgG) against Oestrus ovis L. excretory/secretory larval antigens in 32 sera taken from Iberian ibex from the Sierra Nevada Natural Space (southern Spain). Three antigens were collected: L1OES (from L1 larvae), L2OES (L2), and L3OES (L3). Necropsy was considered as the gold standard. The percentage of ibexes harboring Oestrus spp. larvae was 88%, the mean intensity of parasitism being 16.96  14.96 larvae per parasitized host (range: 2-52). In our sample, first-instar larvae (L1) were found in 9% of ibexes, while 69% of hosts carried L2 larvae and 88% L3 larvae. Positive correlations between L1 and L2 numbers, and between L2 and L3 numbers were detected. The best results with the immunoenzymatic assay were obtained using IgG antibodies against the L1OES antigens (specificity = 89%; sensitivity = 100%; positive predictive value = 100%; negative predictive value = 57%). The IgG seroprevalence against L1OES was 78%. Thus, the analysis of IgG antibodies against antigens collected from L1 O. ovis larvae would seem to be a noninvasive method for reliably diagnosing oestrosis in naturally infested Iberian ibex. Nevertheless, additional immunological and methodological advances are still required because false positive and false negative results still represent a non-negligible part of the results of the ELISA tests.
Comparison of (11)C-methionine, (11)C-choline, and (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose-PET for distinguishing glioma recurrence from radiation necrosis.	The aim of this study is to assess the different metabolic activities characteristic of glioma recurrence and radiation necrosis (RN) and to explore the diagnostic accuracy for differentiation of the two conditions using (11)C-methionine (MET), (11)C-choline (CHO), and (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET). Fifty patients with lesions suggestive of recurrent glioma by MRI underwent MET, CHO, and FDG-PET. All patients who had previously been treated with radiotherapy for malignant glioma were subjected to open surgery and pathological diagnosis (17 recurrent grade 3- gliomas (Gr.3s) comprising 7 anaplastic astrocytomas (AAs) and 10 anaplastic oligodendrogliomas (AOs), 17 recurrent glioblastomas (Gr.4s), and 16 RNs). We measured the PET/Gd volume ratio, the PET/Gd overlap ratio, and the lesion/normal brain uptake ratio (L/N ratio) and determined the optimal index of each PET scan. The PET/Gd volume ratio and the PET/Gd overlap ratio for RN were significantly lower than those of glioma recurrence only with MET-PET (P < 0.05). The L/N ratio of RN was significantly lower than that of Gr.4 with all PET imaging (P < 0.001) and was significantly lower than that of Gr.3, especially for AO, only with MET-PET images (P < 0.005). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis showed that the area under the curve of MET, CHO, and FDG was 92.5, 81.4, and 77.4, respectively. MET L/N ratio of greater than 2.51 provided the best sensitivity and specificity for establishing glioma recurrence (91.2% and 87.5%, respectively). These results demonstrated that MET-PET was superior to both CHO and FDG-PET for diagnostic accuracy in distinguishing glioma recurrence from RN. 
Leptospirosis and dengue fever: a predictive model for early differentiation based on clinical and biochemical parameters.	Leptospirosis and dengue fever are increasingly seen as causes of tropical febrile illness and often are clinically indistinguishable. This two-year prospective study from a tertiary care centre comprised 200 patients including 68 men (mean 34.8 years) with dengue and 73 (mean 46.19 years) with leptospirosis. Oliguria, icterus, muscle tenderness, anaemia, leukocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), acute renal failure (ARF) and hypoalbuminaemia appeared more commonly in leptospirosis in comparison to dengue. Eighteen per cent mortality was observed in leptospirosis compared to one per cent in dengue. ARF, hyperbilirubinaemia, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), creatine kinase (CK) elevation and thrombocytopenia were predictors of death in leptospirosis and thrombocytopenia, ARDS and ARF predictors of death in dengue. On receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis, leucocytosis >11000/mm(3), ESR >40mm, serum creatinine >2mg/dL, total serum bilirubin >2mg/dL, CK >500U/L and serum albumin <3mg/dL were more likely to be an indication of leptospirosis at presentation compared to dengue. 
Outcomes of computed tomography and magnetic resonance enterography in clinical practice of inflammatory bowel disease.	Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) enterography are now widely used to diagnose and monitor Crohn's disease.
Assessment of liver fibrosis with elastography point quantification technique in chronic hepatitis B virus patients: a comparison with liver pathological results.	Elastography point quantification (ElastPQ) was a newly non-invasive method for the assessment of liver fibrosis by measuring liver stiffness. We aimed at evaluating the reproducibility of ElastPQ technology in the determination of liver stiffness and to investigate the value of ElastPQ in liver fibrosis staging among chronic hepatitis B patients.
A multibiomarker-based outcome risk stratification model for adult septic shock*.	Clinical trials in septic shock continue to fail due, in part, to inequitable and sometimes unknown distribution of baseline mortality risk between study arms. Investigators advocate that interventional trials in septic shock require effective outcome risk stratification. We derived and tested a multibiomarker-based approach to estimate mortality risk in adults with septic shock.
The usefulness of the sum of relative enhancement ratio in making a differential diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma from cirrhosis-related nodules.	To estimate the diagnostic accuracy of the sum of relative enhancement ratio (sRER) in making a differential diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) from benign cirrhosis-related nodules.
High-intensity signals in coronary plaques on noncontrast T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging as a novel determinant of coronary events.	The aim of this study was to determine whether coronary high-intensity plaques (HIPs) visualized by noncontrast T1-weighted imaging can predict future coronary events.
Systematic review and meta-analysis on the diagnostic performance of FDG-PET/CT in detecting bone marrow involvement in newly diagnosed Hodgkin lymphoma: is bone marrow biopsy still necessary?	This study aimed to systematically review and meta-analyze published data on the diagnostic performance of (18)F-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography (FDG-PET/CT) in detecting bone marrow involvement in newly diagnosed Hodgkin lymphoma, and to determine whether FDG-PET/CT can replace blind bone marrow biopsy (BMB) in these patients.
Correlations of C-reactive protein levels and erythrocyte sedimentation rates with endoscopic activity indices in patients with ulcerative colitis.	Accurate assessment of endoscopic severity is essential to the early detection of relapses and treatment of patients with ulcerative colitis (UC). However, the relationships between non-invasive biomarkers and invasive endoscopic severity indices remain poorly understood.
Effect of cerebral circulatory arrest on cerebral near-infrared spectroscopy in pediatric patients.	The aim was to investigate whether cerebral transcutaneous near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) or two-site NIRS is a suitable monitoring tool to detect or confirm a cerebral circulatory arrest in pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) patients.
Diagnosis of acute cholecystitis: value of contrast agent in the gallbladder and cystic duct on Gd-EOB-DTPA enhanced MR cholangiography.	To evaluate value of %volume of contrast agent in gallbladder and contrast in cystic duct in diagnosis of acute cholecysititis with Gd-EOB-DTPA MRC obtained 60 min after contrast injection (T1-MRC60min). We included 16 acute cholecystitis (AC), 23 chronic cholecystitis (CC), and 40 healthy volunteers. Receiver operating characteristic analysis showed cutoff value of 30.5% as predictor of AC comparing with healthy volunteers (sensitivity 93.8%, specificity 100%, AUC 0.958) and cutoff of 0% as predictor of AC comparing CC (sensitivity 81.2%, specificity 82.6%, AUC 0.823). In AC absent or obliterated cystic duct on T1-MRC60min showed 81.3%, 100%, sensitivity and specificity, respectively. These can be helpful for diagnosis of AC. 
Grayscale median analysis of primary stenosis and restenosis after carotid endarterectomy.	Several studies have reported that echolucent carotid lesions, as determined by grayscale median (GSM) analysis, are associated with increased perioperative embolic complications during carotid artery stenting (CAS). However, there is limited research of the predictive value of GSM analysis comparing values for primary atherosclerotic lesions in the carotid artery with those for recurrent lesions after carotid endarterectomy (CEA).
The novel EuroSCORE II algorithm predicts the hospital mortality of thoracic aortic surgery in 461 consecutive Japanese patients better than both the original additive and logistic EuroSCORE algorithms.	The European System for Cardiac Operative Risk Evaluation (EuroSCORE) II was developed to improve the overestimation of surgical risk associated with the original (additive and logistic) EuroSCOREs. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the significance of the EuroSCORE II by comparing its performance with that of the original EuroSCOREs in Japanese patients undergoing surgery on the thoracic aorta.
Complications in pediatric scoliosis surgery.	Scoliosis surgery in childhood is associated with a range of postoperative complications that may require admission to the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) or high-dependency unit (HDU).
Sensitivity and specificity can change in opposite directions when new predictive markers are added to risk models.	When comparing prediction models, it is essential to estimate the magnitude of change in performance rather than rely solely on statistical significance. In this paper we investigate measures that estimate change in classification performance, assuming 2-group classification based on a single risk threshold. We study the value of a new biomarker when added to a baseline risk prediction model. First, simulated data are used to investigate the change in sensitivity and specificity (Se and Sp). Second, the influence of Se and Sp on the net reclassification improvement (NRI; sum of Se and Sp) and on decision-analytic measures (net benefit or relative utility) is studied. We assume normal distributions for the predictors and assume correctly specified models such that the extended model has a dominating receiver operating characteristic curve relative to the baseline model. Remarkably, we observe that even when a strong marker is added it is possible that either sensitivity (for thresholds below the event rate) or specificity (for thresholds above the event rate) decreases. In these cases, decision-analytic measures provide more modest support for improved classification than NRI, even though all measures confirm that adding the marker improved classification accuracy. Our results underscore the necessity of reporting Se and Sp separately. When a single summary is desired, decision-analytic measures allow for a simple incorporation of the misclassification costs. 
Role of beta-defensin 2 and interleukin-4 receptor as stroke outcome biomarkers.	Acute ischemic stroke is a complex disease with huge interindividual evolution variability that makes challenging the prediction of an adverse outcome. Our aim was to study the association of bloodstream signatures to early neurological outcome after stroke, by combining a subpooling of samples strategy with protein array discovery approach. Plasma samples from 36 acute stroke patients (< 4.5 h from onset) were equally pooled within outcome groups: worsening, stability, and improvement (n = 3 pools of four patients each, for each outcome group). These nine pools were screened using a 177 antibodies library, and 35 proteins were found altered regarding outcome classification (p < 0.1). Processes of inflammation, immune response, coagulation, and apoptosis were regulated by these proteins. Ten representative candidates, mainly cytokines and chemokines, were assayed for replication in individual baseline plasma samples from 80 new stroke patients: -defensin2, MIP-3b, plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 active, -cell-attracting chemokine 1, Exodus-2, interleukin-4 receptor (IL-4R), IL-12p40, leukemia inhibitor factor, MIP-1b, and tumor necrosis factor-related weak inducer of apoptosis. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed -defensin 2 (ORadj 4.87 [1.13-20.91] p = 0.033) and IL-4R (ORadj 3.52 [1.03-12.08] p = 0.045) as independent predictors of worsening at 24 h after adjustment by clinical variables. Both biomarkers improve the prediction by 19% as compared to clinical information, suggesting a potential role for risk stratification in acute thrombolyzed stroke patients. Early neurological deterioration after stroke is not easily predictable. The use of blood biomarkers might help in decision-making processes regarding this complication. By combining a sub-pooling of samples strategy with protein array discovery approach, we have found two new biomarkers: beta-defensin-2 and interleukin-4 receptor. Both biomarkers improve the prediction of poor-outcome over clinical variables in the acute phase of stroke.
A new transfectant panel cell line-based MoAb-independent antigen capture assay system for detection of CD36 antibody.	CD36 antibody (Ab) causes several disorders: neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia, platelet transfusion refractoriness and non-haemolytic transfusion reactions. However, there is no gold-standard test for CD36 Ab.
Baseline values and changes in liver stiffness measured by transient elastography are associated with severity of fibrosis and outcomes of patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis.	Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a chronic cholestatic disease that leads to extensive liver fibrosis and cirrhosis, which are associated with poor outcome. However, there are no validated noninvasive markers of liver fibrosis in patients with PSC. We assessed the diagnostic performance, reproducibility, longitudinal changes, and prognostic value of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) using vibration-controlled transient elastography (VCTE).
Usefulness of QuickDASH in patients with cervical laminoplasty.	Clumsiness and numbness of the upper extremity is one of the most common complaints of patients with cervical myelopathy. However, most previous evaluations after cervical laminoplasty have only been based on physicians' points of view. We used Quick Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (QuickDASH) self-report questionnaire, which was designed to measure physical function and symptoms in people with upper-limb disorders to evaluate functional outcomes after laminoplasty.
Morphological evaluation and diagnosis of medial type osteoarthritis of the knee using ultrasound.	The aim of this study was to diagnose osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee joint using ultrasound (US).
A pre-operative nomogram for decision making in oncological surgical emergencies.	The purpose of the study was to propose a clinical decision-making tool for predicting mortality in patients undergoing emergency abdominal surgery with a palliative intent in the oncology setting.
SPECT gated blood pool phase analysis of lateral wall motion for prediction of CRT response.	Amplitude, defined as the magnitude of contraction of the myocardium, is obtained from phase analysis but has not been investigated to the same extent as phase-based parameters for predicting the outcome of cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT). The size of scar present in the lateral wall of the left ventricle (LV) has been shown in some studies to predict response to CRT. Scar is associated with impaired regional LV wall motion and is expected to result in a reduction in the corresponding amplitude values derived from phase analysis. Our objective was to determine the correlation between amplitude and scar, and to evaluate amplitude parameters as surrogates for scar in predicting response to CRT. 49 patients underwent a single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) radionuclide angiography (RNA) scan as well as FDG viability and Rubidium-82 perfusion PET scans prior to undergoing CRT. Phase analysis was performed on the SPECT RNA data to extract amplitude values used to define amplitude size (AmpSize) and amplitude score (AmpScore) parameters. Scar size and scar score were obtained from the PET scans based on a 5 segment model. Scar parameters were then compared to amplitude parameters in the lateral wall for the whole population as well as both ischemic (N = 27) and non-ischemic (N = 22) populations using Pearson correlation. The ability of amplitude parameters to predict response to CRT was also investigated and compared to scar parameters. The largest ROC AUC values were obtained in the ischemic population where values of 0.67 and 0.68 were observed for lateral wall AmpSize and AmpScore respectively. Both parameters produced the same sensitivity and specificity values of 83 and 67 %. Amplitude size in the lateral wall showed significant correlation with lateral wall scar size in all patients (r = 0.51), which was further strengthened in the ischemic patient sub-group (r = 0.64). Lateral wall amplitude-based parameters obtained from SPECT RNA phase analysis produced an overall accuracy in predicting CRT response in ischemic patients that was not significantly different to that of PET lateral wall scar parameters. A significant correlation existed between amplitude size and scar size in the lateral wall.
Predicting women at risk for developing obstetric fistula: a fistula index? An observational study comparison of two cohorts.	To ascertain if a predictor of obstructed labour and obstetric fistula (OF) occurrence could be devised.
Digital obstructive arterial disease can be detected by laser Doppler measurements with high sensitivity and specificity.	This study was conducted to determine the sensitivity and specificity of laser Doppler flowmetry (LDF) measurements for digital obstructive arterial disease (DOAD) using angiography as the reference standard and to compare the accuracy of different classical tests used to assess DOAD. Diagnosis of vascular abnormalities at the digital level is challenging. Angiography is the gold standard for assessment of DOAD but is invasive and expensive to perform.
Prevalence and diagnostic significance of specific IgA and anti-heat shock protein 60 Chlamydia trachomatis antibodies in subfertile women.	The objective of the present study was to evaluate the clinical usefulness of the simultaneous measurement of three serological markers of chlamydial infection in women with tubal factor infertility (TFI) and spontaneous miscarriage. Serum was collected from 87 patients (33 with TFI and 54 with spontaneous miscarriage) and analyzed for the presence of IgG and IgA antibodies against Chlamydia trachomatis MOMP antigen (Dia.Pro) and IgG antibodies to chlamydial heat shock protein 60 (cHSP60) antigen (Medac). We determined a high degree (64.5 %) of seropositivity against chlamydial antigens in our study population. The prevalence of persistent chlamydial infection has tended to be higher in the group of patients with TFI (41.4 %) than in patients with spontaneous miscarriage (21.3 %). The serum level of IgA, as a marker of active infection, was statistically higher in the TFI group with persistent infection than in the corresponding spontaneous miscarriage group (p = 0.008), while the serum level of IgG showed no statistically significant differences compared with the spontaneous miscarriage group with persistent infection (p = 0.227). Also, using the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, we found that the serum level of IgA has the ability to discriminate patients with persistent chlamydial infection between the TFI and miscarriage groups, with a sensitivity and specificity of 74.3 % and 71.4 %, respectively. To the best of our knowledge, the present study is the first study which, besides the already confirmed linkage between serologic evidence of persistent chlamydial infection and TFI, also confirmed associations between spontaneous miscarriage and serologic evidence of persistent chlamydial infection.
Urinary MCP-1/creatinine in Henoch-Schnlein purpura and its relationship with nephritis.	Monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) plays a direct role in the infiltration of macrophages and monocytes during the early stages of Henoch-Schnlein purpura (HSP) nephritis. The aim of this study was to compare the urinary MCP-1/creatinine levels in children with and without HSP nephritis and determine if they are associated with the severity of renal lesions.
The Rome III criteria for the diagnosis of functional dyspepsia in secondary care are not superior to previous definitions.	Although the Rome III criteria for functional dyspepsia were defined 7 years ago, they have yet to be validated in a rigorous study. We addressed this issue in a secondary-care population.
Abdominal aortic calcification and renal resistive index in patients with chronic kidney disease: is there a connection?	We aimed to evaluate the relationship between abdominal aortic calcification (AAC) and renal resistive index (RRI), parameters associated with cardiovascular outcome, in non-dialysis chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients.
Changing etiologies and outcomes of acute liver failure: perspectives from 6 transplant centers in Argentina.	There is significant geographic variation in the etiologies and prognoses of acute liver failure (ALF). The aims of the present study were to determine the causes and short-term outcomes of ALF in Argentina, to evaluate the performance of prognostic criteria, and to identify clinical prognostic factors of death. We performed a retrospective analysis of 154 adult patients with ALF who were admitted to 6 liver transplantation (LT) programs between June 2005 and December 2011. The most frequent causes of ALF were viral hepatitis B (46 patients or 30%), autoimmune hepatitis (AIH; 40 patients or 26%), and indeterminate causes (40 patients or 26%). No acetaminophen (ACM) overdose was reported. One hundred and twenty one patients (78%) were included on the waiting list, and LT was performed for 83 patients (54%). Overall survival rate is now corected to 73%. Multivariate logistic regression identified 2 independent variables associated with adverse outcomes on admission: a Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score  29 and an encephalopathy grade  3. In a direct comparison using a receiving operating characteristic curve analysis, the MELD score [C statistic = 0.830, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.73-0.93] had better prognostic accuracy for predicting outcomes than the Clichy criteria (C statistic = 0.719, 95% CI = 0.58-0.85) or the King's College criteria (C statistic = 0.631, 95% CI = 0.49-0.77). In conclusion, hepatitis B and AIH were the most frequent causes of fulminant hepatic failure in our series, and no cases of ACM overdosing were identified. A MELD score  29 and an encephalopathy grade  3 at admission were associated with death. The MELD score at admission showed the highest prognostic accuracy.
Noninvasive detection of response and resistance in EGFR-mutant lung cancer using quantitative next-generation genotyping of cell-free plasma DNA.	Tumor genotyping using cell-free plasma DNA (cfDNA) has the potential to allow noninvasive assessment of tumor biology, yet many existing assays are cumbersome and vulnerable to false-positive results. We sought to determine whether droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) of cfDNA would allow highly specific and quantitative assessment of tumor genotype.
Acute variceal haemorrhage in the United Kingdom: patient characteristics, management and outcomes in a nationwide audit.	Despite advances in treatment, acute variceal haemorrhage remains life-threatening.
Morphologic evaluation of ruptured and symptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysm by three-dimensional modeling.	To identify geometric indices of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) on computed tomography that are associated with higher risk of rupture.
Qualitative and quantitative accuracy of ultrasound-based virtual histology for detection of necrotic core in human coronary arteries.	The aim was to test the accuracy of virtual histology (VH) for detecting necrotic core (NC) in an ex vivo human model of coronary arteries as compared to real histology (RH). A total of nine consecutive explanted hearts were included in the study. Coronary segments, clearly identified by anatomical landmarks, were analyzed by intravascular ultrasound (IVUS-VH) immediately after heart collection and thereafter by RH. NC was expressed as absolute (total amount) and relative (corrected for plaque area) values. Correlation analysis was performed using linear regression models at cross-section level, with correction for repeated measurements per patient, and at segment level. Receiver operator curves (ROC) were developed for testing accuracy of VH in detecting RH-NC. Overall, 321 mm were analyzed corresponding to 642 IVUS-VH frames and corresponding histological slices. VH and RH-NC areas were 0.24  0.43 and 0.16  0.43 mm(2), respectively (p < 0.001). At cross-section level, the correlation between VH and RH-NC was moderate in absolute (r = 0.50, p < 0.001) and poor in relative values (r = 0.43, p = 0.120). At the segment level, this correlation improves in terms of absolute values (r = 0.80, p = 0.01), but was not significant in terms of relative values (r = 0.43, p = 0.25). The ROC curve showed a C-statistics of 0.904 (p < 0.001) with high sensitivity (94 %), but low specificity (53 %) and low positive predictive value (48 %). Although VH has a high sensitivity in identifying RH-NC, it has a low specificity and low positive predictive value. In addition, it is not able to accurately quantify its size within the corresponding histological specimen.
Age-distribution and genotype-phenotype correlation for N-acetyltransferase in Argentine children under isoniazid treatment.	Metabolic clearance of isoniazid (INH) may be up to 10 times faster in individuals who are rapid acetylators compared with slow acetylators. In addition, the acetylation phenotype has been suggested to change with age. A better knowledge of the age distribution of the acetylation genotype and phenotype in children requiring INH for tuberculosis treatment or prevention could be important to optimize safety and efficacy of INH use.
Is the reflux disease questionnaire useful for identifying GERD according to the Montreal definition?	Scales for aiding physicians diagnose gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GERD) have not been evaluated in terms of their ability to discriminate between troublesome symptoms (TS) and non-troublesome symptoms (NTS). Our objective is to evaluate the ability of the Reflux Disease Questionnaire (RDQ) to identify GERD according to referral of TS, in patients without previous proton pump inhibitor (PPI) treatment and in patients on PPI treatment.
Evaluation of corneal elevation, pachymetry and keratometry in keratoconic eyes with respect to the stage of Amsler-Krumeich classification.	To evaluate corneal elevation, pachymetry and keratometry in keratoconic eyes according to the clinical stage of the disease.
Implications of a bioresorbable vascular scaffold implantation on vessel wall strain of the treated and the adjacent segments.	Metallic stents change permanently the mechanical properties of the vessel wall. However little is known about the implications of bioresorbable vascular scaffolds (BVS) on the vessel wall strain.
Multivariate adaptive regression splines analysis to predict biomarkers of spontaneous preterm birth.	To develop classification models of demographic/clinical factors and biomarker data from spontaneous preterm birth in African Americans and Caucasians.
Is there any value in measuring faecal calprotectin in Clostridium difficile positive faecal samples?	Markers of intestinal inflammation have been proposed for inclusion in Clostridium difficile diagnostic algorithms. Faecal calprotectin (f-Cp), a sensitive marker of intestinal inflammation, was evaluated for utility in C. difficile diagnosis in the hospital setting. One hundred and twenty C. difficile positive and 99 C. difficile negative faecal samples of hospital-acquired diarrhoea were analysed for f-Cp using a quantitative ELISA. C. difficile positivity was confirmed using ELISAs for either toxins (n=45) or glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) with toxin gene confirmation (n=75). Non-parametric ANOVA (Kruskal-Wallis) was used for data analysis. C. difficile positive samples had higher (P<0.05) median (interquartile range) f-Cp levels; 336 g g(-1) (208-536) for toxin and 249 g g(-1) (155-498) for GDH and toxin gene positive compared with 106 g g(-1) (46-176) for C. difficile and culture-negative faecal samples. Five C. difficile positive samples were f-Cp negative (<50 g g(-1)). A f-Cp concentration >50 g g(-1) was 96% sensitive and 26% specific for C. difficile, with area under the ROC curve of 0.82. There is no role for f-CP alone in predicting C. difficile infection in hospital-acquired diarrhoea due to its low specificity.
Optimal cut-off value for cardiac troponin I in ruling out Type 5 myocardial infarction.	The clinical classification of myocardial infarction (MI) into five types was introduced in 2007 as a component of the universal definition. A Type 5 MI was defined as a MI related to coronary artery bypass surgery. In a setting of patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting, we set out (i) to describe the pattern of multiple serial cardiac troponin I (cTnI) measurements within 72 h postoperatively and (ii) to determine the optimal cardiac troponin I cut-off value in ruling in or ruling out a Type 5 MI.
Extrarenal sequential organ failure assessment score as an outcome predictor of critically ill children on continuous renal replacement therapy.	The sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) score is easy to calculate and has been well validated as an outcome predictor in critically ill adult patients. However, its use in children has been limited, mainly because of differences in basal reference levels of serum creatinine.
Validity of a single-item measure to assess leg or back pain as the predominant symptom in patients with degenerative disorders of the lumbar spine.	Recent studies suggest that the location of predominant pain (back or leg) can be a significant predictor of the outcome of surgery for degenerative spinal disorders. However, others challenge the notion that the predominant symptom can be reliably identified. This study examined the validity of a single item used to determine the most troublesome symptom.
The use of the Rey 15-Item Test and recognition trial to evaluate noncredible effort after pediatric mild traumatic brain injury.	The Rey 15-Item Test (FIT) is a performance validity test commonly used in adult neuropsychological assessment. FIT classification statistics across studies have been variable, so a recognition trial was created to enhance the measure (Boone, K. B., Salazar, X., Lu, P., Warner-Chacon, K., & Razani, J. (2002). The Rey 15-Item recognition trial: A technique to enhance sensitivity of the Rey 15-Item Memorization Test. Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology, 24(5), 561-573.). The current study assessed the utility of the FIT and recognition trial in a pediatric mild traumatic brain injury sample (N = 319, M = 14.57 years). All participants were administered the FIT and recognition trial as part of an abbreviated clinical neuropsychological evaluation. Failure on the Medical Symptom Validity Test was used as the criterion for noncredible effort. Fifteen percent of the sample met the criterion. The traditional adult cutoff score of <9 on the FIT recall trial yielded excellent specificity (98%), but very poor sensitivity (12%). When the recognition trial was utilized, a total score of <26 resulted in the best combined cutoff score (sensitivity = 55%, specificity = 91%). Results indicate that the FIT with recognition trial may be useful in the assessment of noncredible effort with children and adolescents, at least among relatively high-functioning populations.
Validation of nomograms predicting lymph node involvement in patients with prostate cancer undergoing extended pelvic lymph node dissection.	Our aim was to validate Briganti's nomograms predicting the probability of lymph node involvement (LNI) in prostate cancer (PCa). Clinicopathological data of 256 PCa patients who underwent extended pelvic lymph node dissection (ePLND) and radical prostatectomy (RP) were obtained from two Bulgarian institutions. Predicted probabilities of LNI were assessed using Briganti's nomograms based on ePLND. In addition to the established basic LNI predictors, Briganti's nomograms included the number of lymph nodes removed (version 2006) and the number and percentage of positive biopsy cores (versions 2007 and 2012). The accuracy of these nomograms was compared with the updated Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) nomogram (version 2011). Receiver-operating characteristics analysis was done to assess the discriminative ability of each of the nomograms applied. All of Briganti's nomograms showed a higher predictive accuracy as compared with the updated MSKCC nomogram. The respective AUC values were calculated as 0.847, 0.837, 0.858 and 0.875 for the four Briganti nomograms, and 0.770 for the updated MSKCC nomogram, respectively. Despite the potential for heterogeneity in patient selection and management, all predictions demonstrated high concordance with actual observations. Compared with other similar prognostic tools the updated Briganti nomogram (version 2012) showed the highest predictive accuracy and should therefore be preferred.
B-type natriuretic peptide and clinical judgment in the detection of exercise-induced myocardial ischemia.	Myocardial ischemia has been shown to be associated with increased levels of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP). However, it remains unclear whether and how BNP levels could be used clinically in patients with suspected exercise-induced myocardial ischemia.
The concept of a composite perioperative quality index in kidney transplantation.	Public reporting of patient and graft outcomes in a national registry and close Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services oversight has resulted in transplantation being a highly regulated surgical discipline. Despite this, transplantation surgery lacks comprehensive tracking and reporting of perioperative quality measures. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine the association between a kidney transplantation centers' perioperative quality benchmarking and graft and patient outcomes.
Prospective validation of EuroSCORE II in patients undergoing cardiac surgery in Argentinean centres.	The European System for Cardiac Operative Risk Evaluation II (EuroSCORE II) is an updated version of the original EuroSCORE that must be extensively validated. The objective was to prospectively evaluate the efficacy of EuroSCORE II in predicting the immediate results of cardiac surgery in Argentinean centres.
What is clinically relevant prolapse? An attempt at defining cutoffs for the clinical assessment of pelvic organ descent.	This study was undertaken to investigate the relationship between symptoms of prolapse and International Continence Society Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification (ICS POP-Q) measurements in order to establish optimal cutoffs for predicting prolapse symptoms using receiver operator characteristic (ROC) statistics.
Cefepime-induced encephalopathy in patients with haematological malignancies: clinical features and risk factors.	Cefepime is an antibiotic that is widely used in patients with haematological malignancies (HM). Although its use has been reported to be associated with encephalopathy, only case reports or small case series have been reported so far.
Prevalence of inferobasal myocardial crypts among patients referred for cardiovascular magnetic resonance.	Crypts or clefts in the left ventricular inferobasal myocardium have been detected by cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR), but the extent to which they represent prephenotypic markers of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) or incidental structural variants remains controversial.
Sparse weightings for collapsing inverse solutions to cortical parcellations optimize M/EEG source reconstruction accuracy.	Source-reconstructed magneto- and electroencephalography (M/EEG) are promising tools for investigating the human functional connectome. To reduce data, decrease noise, and obtain results directly comparable to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), M/EEG source data can be collapsed into a cortical parcellation. For most collapsing approaches, however, it remains unclear if collapsed parcel time series accurately represent the coherent source dynamics within each parcel.
Predicting hearing thresholds in occupational noise-induced hearing loss by auditory steady state responses.	Currently available behavioral tools for the assessment of noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) depend on the reliable cooperation of the subject. Furthermore, in workers' compensation cases, there is considerable financial gain to be had from exaggerating symptoms, such that accurate assessment of true hearing threshold levels is essential. An alternative objective physiologic tool for assessing NIHL is the auditory steady state response (ASSR) test, which combines frequency specificity with a high level of auditory stimulation, making it applicable for the evaluation of subjects with a moderate to severe deficit. The primary aim of the study was to assess the value of the multifrequency ASSR test in predicting the behavioral warble-tone audiogram in a large sample of young subjects with NIHL of varying severity or with normal hearing. The secondary goal was to assess suprathreshold ASSR growth functions in these two groups.
Artifact characterization and removal for in vivo neural recording.	In vivo neural recordings are often corrupted by different artifacts, especially in a less-constrained recording environment. Due to limited understanding of the artifacts appeared in the in vivo neural data, it is more challenging to identify artifacts from neural signal components compared with other applications. The objective of this work is to analyze artifact characteristics and to develop an algorithm for automatic artifact detection and removal without distorting the signals of interest.
Novel electrocardiographic screening criterion for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in children.	Electrocardiography is often advocated as a screening tool in children for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HC). We sought to establish an electrocardiographic screening tool to identify children with HC. We hypothesized that a pediatric-specific electrocardiographic criterion would perform better than the popular criteria used for screening children for left ventricular hypertrophy and HC. The earliest available electrocardiogram for children (n=108) with HC (ages 7 to 21 yrs) was reviewed. We sought to compare the diagnostic accuracy of 4 screening algorithms: (1) Sokolow-Lyon criterion (SV1+RV5/RV6>35 mm), (2) Cornell criterion (RaVL+SV3>28 mm in men, 20 mm in women), (3) total 12-lead voltage criterion (R wave to the nadir of Q/S wave>175 mm), and (4) pediatric-specific criterion (RaVL+SV2>23 mm). The same criteria were applied to a cohort of age-matched and gender-matched controls without cardiac disease. Statistically significant correlations were found between children with HC and positive screen using all 4 criteria. However, comparison of receiver operating characteristic demonstrated an area under the curve of 0.67 for Sokolow-Lyon criterion, 0.70 for Cornell criterion, 0.83 for total 12-lead criterion, and 0.82 for pediatric-specific criterion. Pediatric-specific criterion had superior sensitivity in gene-positive children and superior overall specificity than total 12-lead criterion. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that the pediatric-specific criterion employing leads RaVL+SV2 is more accurate in identifying children with HC in comparison with other popular screening criteria.
Different prognostic value of functional right ventricular parameters in arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy/dysplasia.	The value of standard 2-dimensional transthoracic echocardiographic parameters for risk stratification in patients with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy/dysplasia (ARVC/D) is controversial.
A prediction model for real-time PCR results in blood samples from febrile patients with suspected sepsis.	Sepsis, a systemic, deleterious host response to infection that leads to organ dysfunction, is a potentially deadly condition needing prompt identification of the causative organisms and early appropriate antimicrobial therapy. Among non-culture-based diagnostic methods, SeptiFast (SF) can be employed to speed bacterial and fungal DNA detection, but it suffers from poor sensitivity and high cost. The aim of the present study, performed in 285 febrile patients, was to develop a prediction model to restrict the SF assay to clinical cases with a high probability of positive SF results. The prevalence of SF results positive for a pathogen was 17.2%. Independent predictors of positive results were: blood sampling within 12 h after the onset of fever [odds ratio (OR) 20.03; 95% confidence interval (CI) 6.87-58.38; P<0.0001]; 0.5 ng serum procalcitonin (PCT) ml(-1) (OR 18.52; 95% CI 5.12-67.02; P<0.0001); body temperature 38 C (OR 3.78; 95% CI 1.39-10.25; P=0.009); 3 g serum albumin dl(-1) (OR 3.40; 95% CI 1.27-9.08; P=0.014); and 13000 white blood cells mm(-3) (OR 2.75; 95% CI 1.09-7.69; P=0.05). The model showed good calibration (Hosmer-Lemeshow chi-squared 1.61; P=0.978). Area under the receiving operating characteristic curve was 0.944 (95% CI 0.914-0.973; P<0.0001). These results suggest that a prediction model based on PCT and a few other routinely available laboratory and clinical variables could be of help in selecting patients with a high probability of SF-positive results.
Prospective relationship between duration of untreated psychosis and 13-year clinical outcome: a first-episode psychosis study.	The adverse effects of a long duration of untreated psychosis (DUP) have been explored in numerous short-term studies. These studies support the development of early interventions that reduce treatment delay and promote recovery. However, the enduring impact of DUP is largely unknown, partly due to the paucity of prospective long-term studies. Although the DUP-outcome relationship is commonly assumed to be linear, the threshold effect has not been adequately examined.
Atrial function as a guide to timing of intervention in mitral valve prolapse with mitral regurgitation.	The purpose of this study was to determine the clinical utility of left atrial (LA) functional indexes in patients with mitral valve prolapse (MVP) and mitral regurgitation (MR).
Clinical validation of an algorithm for rapid and accurate automated segmentation of intracoronary optical coherence tomography images.	The analysis of intracoronary optical coherence tomography (OCT) images is based on manual identification of the lumen contours and relevant structures. However, manual image segmentation is a cumbersome and time-consuming process, subject to significant intra- and inter-observer variability. This study aims to present and validate a fully-automated method for segmentation of intracoronary OCT images.
Survey on the adequacy of depth of anaesthesia with bispectral index and isolated forearm technique in elective Caesarean section under general anaesthesia with sevoflurane.	Awareness during general anaesthesia for Caesarean section (C/S), although uncommon, remains a concern for anaesthesiologists. We examined the relationship between the bispectral index (BIS) and responses to the isolated forearm technique (IFT) to evaluate the adequacy of general anaesthesia in C/S and determine a suitable cut-off point for BIS values based on IFT results.
Screening for convergence insufficiency using the CISS is not indicated in young adults.	This paper presents Convergence Insufficiency Symptom Survey (CISS) and orthoptic findings in a sample of typical young adults who considered themselves to have normal eyesight apart from weak spectacles.
Validation of a composite of suicide items from the Mood and Feelings Questionnaire (MFQ) in offspring of recurrently depressed parents.	The Mood and Feelings Questionnaire (MFQ) is widely used for the assessment of depression in adolescents. The main aim of this study was to examine the concurrent and predictive validity of a composite of four MFQ items related to suicidal ideation using an interview measure of suicidal ideation. A prospective 3-wave high-risk study of offspring of parents with recurrent depression was used including 294 families where children were initially aged 9-17 years. Measures included four parent and child rated MFQ items assessing suicide-related ideation (referred to here as the "MFQ-SI") and a clinically-defined interview measure of suicidal ideation. A parent-child combined MFQ-SI subscale performed well as a screening tool against the interview measure of suicidal ideation (baseline area under the curve (AUC) (95% CI):0.92 (0.85-1.00)). Longitudinally, this measure showed reasonable predictive validity against future suicidal ideation (AUC (95% CI):0.73 (0.58-0.88)). Lastly, there was evidence that a child-rated MFQ-SI scale performed better than a parent-rated one in detecting concurrent suicidal ideation. Longitudinally, both parent and child scales showed reasonable predictive validity against future suicidal ideation. In summary, a brief screen using four MFQ items related to suicidal ideation performs well in identifying concurrent and future suicidal ideation in high-risk adolescents. 
Defining the role of chest radiography in determining candidacy for pectus excavatum repair.	The Haller index (HI), derived from computed tomography (CT) of the chest, remains the standard for determining pectus excavatum (PE) severity. The ability to accurately determine PE severity from chest radiography (CXR) may provide substantial benefits. This study proposes to establish data-driven criteria for the use of CXR as a diagnostic modality in the preoperative evaluation of patients with PE.
Near-infrared spectroscopy for detection of vascular compromise in paediatric supracondylar fractures.	Children suffering supracondylar fractures of the humerus are at risk of vascular compromise, which is currently assessed clinically, although other modalities such as angiography, pulse oximetry, Doppler ultrasound and magnetic resonance angiography have been used. We sought to ascertain whether tissue haemoglobin oxygenation (StO2) measurement could distinguish between patients with and without clinical vascular compromise following supracondylar fractures of the humerus. We prospectively observed StO2using near-infrared spectroscopy in 29 paediatric patients with supracondylar fractures requiring operative manipulation. The injured and uninjured volar forearm compartments were monitored immediately before and after fracture reduction. The relationship between StO2in the injured and uninjured limb, and the presence of pre-operative vascular compromise was assessed. Seven out of 29 children presented with vascular compromise. Patients with clinical vascular compromise had significantly lower pre-reduction StO2(63.5%  15%, mean  standard deviation), compared to those without compromise (80.9%  10%). StO2normalized following surgery in all children with vascular compromise. These improvements in muscle StO2were associated, in all patients, with the clinical return of pulses and resolution of neurological symptoms if present. StO2monitoring can identify patients with clinical vascular compromise, can identify the return of adequate perfusion following operative correction of supracondylar fractures, and may be a useful adjunct to clinical assessment. 
Epithelial remodeling as basis for machine-based identification of keratoconus.	To develop and evaluate automated computerized algorithms for differentiation of normal and keratoconus corneas based solely on epithelial and stromal thickness data.
Preoperative evaluation of colorectal liver metastases: comparison of gadopentetate dimeglumine and gadoxetic-acid-enhanced 1.5-T MRI.	The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic performance of gadopentetate dimeglumine and gadoxetic-acid-enhanced MRI in patients with colorectal liver metastases.
Ensemble classification of colon biopsy images based on information rich hybrid features.	In recent years, classification of colon biopsy images has become an active research area. Traditionally, colon cancer is diagnosed using microscopic analysis. However, the process is subjective and leads to considerable inter/intra observer variation. Therefore, reliable computer-aided colon cancer detection techniques are in high demand. In this paper, we propose a colon biopsy image classification system, called CBIC, which benefits from discriminatory capabilities of information rich hybrid feature spaces, and performance enhancement based on ensemble classification methodology. Normal and malignant colon biopsy images differ with each other in terms of the color distribution of different biological constituents. The colors of different constituents are sharp in normal images, whereas the colors diffuse with each other in malignant images. In order to exploit this variation, two feature types, namely color components based statistical moments (CCSM) and Haralick features have been proposed, which are color components based variants of their traditional counterparts. Moreover, in normal colon biopsy images, epithelial cells possess sharp and well-defined edges. Histogram of oriented gradients (HOG) based features have been employed to exploit this information. Different combinations of hybrid features have been constructed from HOG, CCSM, and Haralick features. The minimum Redundancy Maximum Relevance (mRMR) feature selection method has been employed to select meaningful features from individual and hybrid feature sets. Finally, an ensemble classifier based on majority voting has been proposed, which classifies colon biopsy images using the selected features. Linear, RBF, and sigmoid SVM have been employed as base classifiers. The proposed system has been tested on 174 colon biopsy images, and improved performance (=98.85%) has been observed compared to previously reported studies. Additionally, the use of mRMR method has been justified by comparing the performance of CBIC on original and reduced feature sets. 
Exploring medical diagnostic performance using interactive, multi-parameter sourced receiver operating characteristic scatter plots.	Determining diagnostic criteria for specific disorders is often a tedious task that involves determining optimal diagnostic thresholds for symptoms and biomarkers using receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) statistics. To help this endeavor, we developed softROC, a user-friendly graphic-based tool that lets users visually explore possible ROC tradeoffs. The software requires MATLAB installation and an Excel file containing threshold symptoms/biological measures, with corresponding gold standard diagnoses for a set of patients. The software scans the input file for diagnostic and symptom/biomarkers columns, and populates the graphical-user-interface (GUI). Users select symptoms/biomarkers of interest using Boolean algebra as potential inputs to create diagnostic criteria outputs. The software evaluates subtests across the user-established range of cut-points and compares them to a gold standard in order to generate ROC and quality ROC scatter plots. These plots can be examined interactively to find optimal cut-points of interest for a given application (e.g. sensitivity versus specificity needs). Split-set validation can also be used to set up criteria and validate these in independent samples. Bootstrapping is used to produce confidence intervals. Additional statistics and measures are provided, such as the area under the ROC curve (AUC). As a testing set, softROC is used to investigate nocturnal polysomnogram measures as diagnostic features for narcolepsy. All measures can be outputted to a text file for offline analysis. The softROC toolbox, with clinical training data and tutorial instruction manual, is provided as supplementary material and can be obtained online at http://www.stanford.edu/~hyatt4/software/softroc or from the open source repository at http://www.github.com/informaton/softroc. 
Impaired perception of mnemonic oldness, but not mnemonic newness, after parietal lobe damage.	In studies of episodic memory retrieval, recognition paradigms are known to elicit robust activations in the inferior parietal lobe. However, damage to this region does not produce severe deficits in episodic memory performance as indexed by typical accuracy measures. Rather, because problems with memory confidence are frequently reported, the observed deficits may be best described as "metamemory" or subjective memory deficits. Here, we further investigated the inferior parietal lobe's role in recognition memory as well as metamemory. We tested the hypothesis that the inferior parietal lobe gauges the perceived oldness of items, given several neuroimaging findings suggesting that a portion of the left inferior parietal lobe is sensitive to perceived oldness. We tested two patients with bilateral parietal lobe lesions and matched controls on an old/new recognition task. From these data we constructed receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves by fitting the data with the unequal-variance signal-detection (UVSD) model. The results revealed no memory impairment in terms of patients' accuracy. However, patients exhibited lower hit rates and false alarms rates at high confidence levels. Further, patients and controls differed in how they set decision criteria for making recognition responses. Patients' decision criteria for "old" responses were shifted in a conservative fashion such that they were unwilling to endorse recognized target items with high levels of confidence. These findings provide constraints on models of inferior parietal lobe contributions to episodic memory retrieval.
Residual gas analyzer mass spectrometry for human breath analysis: a new tool for the non-invasive diagnosis of Helicobacter pylori infection.	A residual gas analyzer (RGA) coupled with a high vacuum chamber is described for the non-invasive diagnosis of the Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection through C-urea breath analysis. The present RGA-based mass spectrometry (MS) method is capable of measuring high-precision CO isotope enrichments in exhaled breath samples from individuals harboring the H. pylori infection. The system exhibited 100% diagnostic sensitivity, and 93% specificity alongside positive and negative predictive values of 95% and 100%, respectively, compared with invasive endoscopy-based biopsy tests. A statistically sound diagnostic cut-off value for the presence of H. pylori was determined to be 3.0 using a receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. The diagnostic accuracy and validity of the results are also supported by optical off-axis integrated cavity output spectroscopy measurements. The (DOB)C values of both methods correlated well (R = 0.9973 at 30 min). The RGA-based instrumental setup described here is simple, robust, easy-to-use and more portable and cost-effective compared to all other currently available detection methods, thus making it a new point-of-care medical diagnostic tool for the purpose of large-scale screening of the H. pylori infection in real time. The RGA-MS technique should have broad applicability for C-breath tests in a wide range of biomedical research and clinical diagnostics for many other diseases and metabolic disorders.
Mean platelet volume as an indicator of disease activity in juvenile SLE.	The aim of the study was to assess mean platelet volume (MPV) in children with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) at the active and inactive stages. Twenty children with SLE and 30 age- and gender-matched controls were enrolled. Demographic data, SLE disease activity index (SLEDAI), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), MPV, complement 3 (C3), complement 4 (C4), urine protein (Up), and urine creatinine (Ucr) values upon reactivation and remission phases were recorded. MPV was statistically higher in patients than in controls and significantly increased in active phase compared to inactive phase (p=0.001). A MPV level of 8.4fL was determined as predictive cutoff value of activation of SLE (sensitivity 75%, specificity 90%). MPV was positively correlated with SLEDAI (p=0.01, r=0.55), ESR (p=0.01, r=0.45), CRP (p=0.04, r=0.24), and Up/Ucr (p=0.01, r=0.45) and negatively correlated with C3 (p=0.02, r=-0.36), albumin (p=0.01, r=-0.63), and Hb (p=0.01, r=-0.48). There was not any significant association between MPV and the histological classification of lupus nephritis (p=0.65). MPV might be used as an early indicator of reactivation in children with SLE. MPV seemed to be more accurate than ESR, CRP, and C3 for monitoring the disease activity in SLE. 
Development of a composite model derived from cardiopulmonary exercise tests to predict mortality risk in patients with mild-to-moderate heart failure.	Cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) is used to predict outcome in patients with mild-to-moderate heart failure (HF). Single CPET-derived variables are often used, but we wanted to see if a composite score achieved better predictive power.
Neck circumference is a predictor of metabolic syndrome and obstructive sleep apnea in short-sleeping obese men and women.	The constellation of metabolic syndrome, although controversial with regard to its clinical usefulness, is epidemiologically related to increased diabetes risk and cardiovascular mortality. Our goal was to investigate the associations among neck circumference (NC), obstructive sleep apnea syndromes (OSAS), and metabolic syndrome in obese men and women sleeping less than 6.5hr per night.
Prediction of postpartum hemorrhage in women with gestational hypertension or mild preeclampsia at term.	To assess whether postpartum hemorrhage can be predicted in women with gestational hypertension or mild preeclampsia at term.
Significance of the diagnostic categories "atypical" and "suspicious for malignancy" in the cytologic diagnosis of solid pancreatic masses.	Endoscopic ultrasound guided (EUS) fine-needle aspiration (FNA) investigation of solid pancreatic lesions has been shown to have good sensitivity and specificity. Many lesions can be definitely classified as benign or malignant but some can only be cytologically classified as "atypical" or "suspicious for malignancy". Risk for malignancy in these indeterminate categories has not been well categorized. The cytology records of four University Medical centers were searched for all EUS guided FNAs of solid pancreatic lesions. All cases with a diagnosis of "atypical", or "suspicious for malignancy" were selected for analysis when histologic biopsy or over 18 months clinical follow-up was available. Two hundred and ninety-two cases with a diagnosis of "atypical" or "suspicious for malignancy" and adequate follow-up were obtained from the combined data of the four institutions. The percentage malignant for the categories "atypical" and "suspicious for malignancy" were 79.2 and 96.3%, respectively. If the category "atypical" was classified as benign and "suspicious for malignancy" was classified as malignant, the resulting positive predictive value was 96.3 (95% CI: 92.6-98.5) and the negative predictive value 20.8 (95% CI: 13.4-30.0). The categories of "atypical" and "suspicious for malignancy" stratify risk for malignancy in a fashion, which may aid in patient counseling and selection of follow-up protocols. Classification of "suspicious for malignancy" as malignant optimizes diagnostic sensitivity and specificity.
Sample size estimation in diagnostic test studies of biomedical informatics.	This review provided a conceptual framework of sample size calculations in the studies of diagnostic test accuracy in various conditions and test outcomes.
Handgrip strength at baseline and mortality risk in a cohort of women and men on hemodialysis: a 4-year study.	The objective of this study was to investigate the association between handgrip strength (HGS) and the risk of all-cause mortality in maintenance hemodialysis (MHD) patients and its relationship with nutritional status. This study also investigated whether the association between HGS and mortality is similar in female and male patients.
Thoracic-to-hip circumference ratio as a novel marker of type 2 diabetes, independent of body mass index and waist-to-hip ratio, in Korean adults.	We compared upper trunk anthropometric indices with overall and central obesity indicators to predict the presence of type 2 diabetes in middle-aged and elderly Korean individuals.
Methylation analysis in spontaneous sputum for lung cancer diagnosis.	Lung cancer is the most fatal cancer in the developed world due to presence of metastases at time of diagnosis. The aim of this study is to examine DNA hypermethylation in sputum compared to sputum cytology for the diagnosis of lung cancer. A novel risk analysis is introduced, using the distinction between diagnostic and risk markers.
A new operational definition of frailty: the Frailty Trait Scale.	To provide a new instrument to diagnose frailty, the Frailty Trait Scale (FTS), that allows a more precise assessment and monitoring of individuals.
Total lesion glycolysis as the best 18F-FDG PET/CT parameter in differentiating intermediate-high risk adrenal incidentaloma.	Characterization of intermediate-high risk adrenal incidentaloma (AI) is important because biopsy or surgery should be performed to confirm the malignancy. We investigated which parameters of F-fluorodeoxyglucose ((18)F-FDG) PET/computed tomography (CT) had an additive role in distinguishing malignancies in patients with incidental adrenal masses of intermediate-high risk.
Predicting essential genes in prokaryotic genomes using a linear method: ZUPLS.	An effective linear method, ZUPLS, was developed to improve the accuracy and speed of prokaryotic essential gene identification. ZUPLS only uses the Z-curve and other sequence-based features. Such features can be calculated readily from the DNA/amino acid sequences. Therefore, no well-studied biological network knowledge is required for using ZUPLS. This significantly simplifies essential gene identification, especially for newly sequenced species. ZUPLS can also select necessary features automatically by embedding the uninformative variable elimination tool into the partial least squares classifier. No optimized modelling parameters are needed. ZUPLS has been used, herein, to predict essential genes of 12 remotely related prokaryotes to test its performance. The cross-organism predictions yielded AUC (Area Under the Curve) scores between 0.8042 and 0.9319 by using E. coli genes as the training samples. Similarly, ZUPLS achieved AUC scores between 0.8111 and 0.9371 by using B. subtilis genes as the training samples. We also compared it with the best available results of the existing approaches for further testing. The improvement of the AUC score in predicting B. subtilis essential genes using E. coli genes was 0.13. Additionally, in predicting E. coli essential genes using P. aeruginosa genes, the significant improvement was 0.10. Similarly, the exceptional improvement of the average accuracy of M. pulmonis using M. genitalium and M. pulmonis genes was 14.7%. The combined superior feature extraction and selection power of ZUPLS enable it to give reliable prediction of essential genes for both Gram-positive/negative organisms and rich/poor culture media. 
Significance of red cell distribution width measurement for the patients with isolated coronary artery ectasia.	Red cell distribution width (RDW) has been recognized as a novel marker for several cardiovascular diseases. The aim of this study was to evaluate the association between RDW levels and the presence of isolated coronary artery ectasia (CAE).
Combining multiple HRT parameters using the 'Random Forests' method improves the diagnostic accuracy of glaucoma in emmetropic and highly myopic eyes.	To combine multiple Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT) parameters using the Random Forests classifier to diagnose glaucoma, both in highly and physiologically myopic (highly myopic) eyes and emmetropic eyes.
Detection of hepatic steatosis using the controlled attenuation parameter: a comparative study with liver biopsy.	Measurements of controlled attenuation parameter (CAP) with transient elastography (FibroScan; EcoSens SA, Paris, France) may provide an accurate noninvasive assessment of hepatic steatosis. Herein, we prospectively determined the accuracy of liver fat quantification with CAP values in patients with chronic liver diseases and compare the results with those of histological assessment of steatosis as reference standard.
Risk assessment of deep-vein thrombosis after acute stroke: a prospective study using clinical factors.	Deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) represents a serious complication in acute stroke patients with pulmonary embolus (PE) as a potential outcome. Prediction of DVT may help with formulating a proper prevention strategy. To assess of the risk of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) in acute stroke patients, we developed and validated a clinical score in a cohort study.
The Chinese version of story recall: a useful screening tool for mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease in the elderly.	Decline in verbal episodic memory is a core feature of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). The delayed story recall (DSR) test from the Adult Memory and Information Processing Battery (AMIPB) discriminates MCI from normal aging and predicts its conversion to Alzheimer's dementia. However, there is no study that validates the Chinese version of the DSR and reports cut-off scores in the Chinese population.
A transcriptomic reporter assay employing neutrophils to measure immunogenic activity of septic patients' plasma.	There are diverse molecules present in blood plasma that regulate immune functions and also present a potential source of disease biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Genome-wide profiling has become a powerful method for assessing immune responses on a systems scale, but technologies that can measure the plasma proteome still face considerable challenges. An alternative approach to direct proteome assessment is to measure transcriptome responses in reporter cells exposed in vitro to plasma. In this report we describe such a "transcriptomic reporter assay" to assess plasma from patients with sepsis, which is a common and severe systemic infectious process for which physicians lack efficient diagnostic or prognostic markers.
A statistical methodology to improve accuracy in differentiating schizophrenia patients from healthy controls.	We present a methodology to statistically discriminate among univariate and multivariate indices to improve accuracy in differentiating schizophrenia patients from healthy controls. Electroencephalogram data from 71 subjects (37 controls/34 patients) were analyzed. Data included P300 event-related response amplitudes and latencies as well as amplitudes and sensory gating indices derived from the P50, N100, and P200 auditory-evoked responses resulting in 20 indices analyzed. Receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve analyses identified significant univariate indices; these underwent principal component analysis (PCA). Logistic regression of PCA components created a multivariate composite used in the final ROC. Eleven univariate ROCs were significant with area under the curve (AUC) >0.50. PCA of these indices resulted in a three-factor solution accounting for 76.96% of the variance. The first factor was defined primarily by P200 and P300 amplitudes, the second by P50 ratio and difference scores, and the third by P300 latency. ROC analysis using the logistic regression composite resulted in an AUC of 0.793 (0.06), p<0.001 (CI=0.685-0.901). A composite score of 0.456 had a sensitivity of 0.829 (correctly identifying schizophrenia patients) and a specificity of 0.703 (correctly identifying healthy controls). Results demonstrated the usefulness of combined statistical techniques in creating a multivariate composite that improves diagnostic accuracy. 
Development of serum parameters panels for the early detection of pancreatic cancer.	Early detection of pancreatic cancer is promising for improving clinical outcome; however, no effective biomarker has yet been identified. Here, we detected 61 clinical serum parameters in 200 healthy controls (Ctrls), 163 pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) patients and 109 benign pancreatitis patients (Benign) in the training group. A metropolis algorithm with Monte Carlo simulation was used for identifying parameter panels. Sera from 183 Ctrl, 129 PDAC and 95 Benign individuals were used for cross-validation. Samples from 77 breast, 72 cervical, 101 colorectal, 138 gastric, 108 prostate and 132 lung cancer patients were collected for evaluating cancer selectivity. A panel consisting of carbohydrate antigen (CA)19-9, albumin (ALB), C-reactive protein (CRP) and interleukin (IL)-8 had the highest diagnostic value for discriminating between PDAC and Ctrl. The sensitivity (SN) was 99.39% for all-stage, 96.10% for early-stage and 98.80% for advanced-stage PDAC at 90% specificity (SP). In the validation group, the sensitivities were 93.80, 93.10 and 94.40%, respectively, at 90% SP. This panel also identified 80.52% of the breast cancer, 66.67% cervical cancer, 86.14% colorectal cancer, 89.86% gastric cancer, 71.30% prostate cancer and 93.85% lung cancer samples as non-PDAC. The panel consisting of CA19-9, carbon dioxide, CRP and IL-6 panel had the highest diagnostic value for discriminating between PDAC and Benign. The SN was 74.23% for all-stage, 75.30% for early-stage and 74.40% for advanced-stage PDAC at 90% SP. In the validation group, the sensitivities were 72.10, 76.10 and 67.20%, respectively, at 90% SP. Our parameter panels may aid in the early detection of PDAC to improve clinical outcome.
Visual evoked potential and psychophysical contrast thresholds in glaucoma.	We compared the diagnostic power of electrophysiologically and psychophysically measured contrast thresholds for the diagnosis of glaucoma. Additionally, we investigated whether combining results from the two methods improved diagnostic power.
FRAX without bone mineral density versus osteoporosis self-assessment screening tool as predictors of osteoporosis in primary screening of individuals aged 70 and older.	To compare two well-validated tools--the FRAX without bone mineral density (BMD) and the Osteoporosis Self-Assessment Screening Tool (OST)--in predicting osteoporosis and to define thresholds above and below which it would be reasonable to recommend omitting BMD testing.
Identification alpha-2-HS-glycoprotein precursor and tubulin beta chain as serology diagnosis biomarker of colorectal cancer.	Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a major worldwide cause of cancer-related morbidity and mortality largely due to the insidious onset of the disease. The current clinical procedures utilized for disease diagnosis are invasive, unpleasant, and inconvenient. Hence, the need for simple blood tests that could be used for the early detection is crucial for its ultimate control and prevention.
Application of fecal hemoglobin-haptoglobin complex testing for small bowel lesions.	Fecal hemoglobin-haptoglobin (Hb-Hpt) complex testing is theoretically superior to immunochemical fecal occult blood test detecting human hemoglobin (Hb), as Hb-Hpt is more stable compared to Hb during passage through the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. The aim was to examine the role of fecal Hb-Hpt complex testing in predicting small bowel lesions detected by video capsule endoscopy (VCE).
New methods for using computer-aided detection information for the detection of lung nodules on chest radiographs.	To investigate two new methods of using computer-aided detection (CAD) system information for the detection of lung nodules on chest radiographs. We evaluated an interactive CAD application and an independent combination of radiologists and CAD scores.
Hepatitis C virus core antigen, an earlier and stronger predictor on sustained virological response in patients with genotype 1 HCV infection.	Earlier kinetics of serum HCV core antigen (HCVcAg) and its predictive value on sustained virological response (SVR) were investigated in patients with genotype 1 HCV infection during antiviral treatment.
Differentiation of gastric true leiomyoma from gastric stromal tumor based on biphasic contrast-enhanced computed tomographic findings.	The objective of this study was to identify the computed tomographic criteria that differentiate gastric true leiomyoma from gastric stromal tumor.
Accuracy of national surgery quality improvement program models in predicting postoperative morbidity in patients undergoing colectomy.	The National Surgery Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP) is the standard for assessment of acuity-adjusted outcomes in surgery. The validity of NSQIP has not been well established in colorectal surgery. Technical and process variables, which NSQIP may not consider, affect morbidity rate.
Can neonatal sepsis be predicted in late preterm premature rupture of membranes? Development of a prediction model.	Women with late preterm premature rupture of membranes (PROM) have an increased risk that their child will develop neonatal sepsis. We evaluated whether neonatal sepsis can be predicted from antepartum parameters in these women.
Rapid and correct prediction of thrombocytopenia and hypofibrinogenemia with rotational thromboelastometry in cardiac surgery.	In the present study, the authors have investigated whether rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) could predict thrombocytopenia and hypofibrinogenemia in cardiac surgery using the clot amplitude after 5 minutes (A5). Another parameter, PLTEM, in which the contribution of fibrinogen is eliminated by subtracting a fibrin-specific ROTEM test (FIBTEM) from an extrinsically-activated ROTEM test (EXTEM), was investigated. Furthermore, the turnaround time of ROTEM was compared to conventional laboratory tests.
Thromboelastograph with Platelet Mapping(TM) predicts postoperative chest tube drainage in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.	The goal of this study was to evaluate the ability of Thromboelastograph with Platelet Mapping (TEG-PM(TM)) to predict postoperative bleeding tendency in patients with a history of recent anti-platelet therapy undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
Clinical factors associated with absolute and relative measures of glycemic variability determined by continuous glucose monitoring: an analysis of 480 subjects.	Factors associated with absolute and relative measures of glycemic variability have not been determined by continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) and concurrent measurement of fasting C-peptide levels.
Utility of R2* obtained from T2*-weighted imaging in differentiating hepatocellular carcinomas from cavernous hemangiomas of the liver.	To evaluate the feasibility of applying R2* values to differentiate hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) from cavernous hemangiomas of the liver (CHL).
A microRNA signature associated with early recurrence in breast cancer.	Recurrent breast cancer occurring after the initial treatment is associated with poor outcome. A bimodal relapse pattern after surgery for primary tumor has been described with peaks of early and late recurrence occurring at about 2 and 5 years, respectively. Although several clinical and pathological features have been used to discriminate between low- and high-risk patients, the identification of molecular biomarkers with prognostic value remains an unmet need in the current management of breast cancer. Using microarray-based technology, we have performed a microRNA expression analysis in 71 primary breast tumors from patients that either remained disease-free at 5 years post-surgery (group A) or developed early (group B) or late (group C) recurrence. Unsupervised hierarchical clustering of microRNA expression data segregated tumors in two groups, mainly corresponding to patients with early recurrence and those with no recurrence. Microarray data analysis and RT-qPCR validation led to the identification of a set of 5 microRNAs (the 5-miRNA signature) differentially expressed between these two groups: miR-149, miR-10a, miR-20b, miR-30a-3p and miR-342-5p. All five microRNAs were down-regulated in tumors from patients with early recurrence. We show here that the 5-miRNA signature defines a high-risk group of patients with shorter relapse-free survival and has predictive value to discriminate non-relapsing versus early-relapsing patients (AUC = 0.993, p-value<0.05). Network analysis based on miRNA-target interactions curated by public databases suggests that down-regulation of the 5-miRNA signature in the subset of early-relapsing tumors would result in an overall increased proliferative and angiogenic capacity. In summary, we have identified a set of recurrence-related microRNAs with potential prognostic value to identify patients who will likely develop metastasis early after primary breast surgery.
SOCS3 promoter hypermethylation is a favorable prognosticator and a novel indicator for G-CIMP-positive GBM patients.	Hypermethylation of the suppressor of cytokine signaling 3(SOCS3) promoter has been reported to predict a poor prognosis in several cancers including glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). We explored the function of SOCS3 promoter hypermethylation in GBM cohorts, including analysis of the CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP), when a large number of gene loci are simultaneously hypermethylated.
DNA methylation biomarkers predict progression-free and overall survival of metastatic renal cell cancer (mRCC) treated with antiangiogenic therapies.	VEGF-targeted therapy increases both the progression-free (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients with metastasized renal cell cancer (mRCC). Identification of molecular phenotypes of RCC could improve risk-stratification and the prediction of the clinical disease course. We investigated whether gene-specific DNA hypermethylation can predict PFS and OS among patients undergoing anti-VEGF-based therapy. Primary tumor tissues from 18 patients receiving targeted therapy were examined retrospectively using quantitative methylation-specific PCR analysis of CST6, LAD1, hsa-miR-124-3, and hsa-miR-9-1 CpG islands. PFS and OS were analyzed for first-line and sequential antiangiogenic therapies using the log rank statistics. Sensitivity and specificity were determined for predicting first-line therapy failure. Hypermethylation of CST6 and LAD1 was associated with both a shortened PFS (log rank p = 0.009 and p = 0.004) and OS (p = 0.011 and p = 0.043). The median PFS observed for the high and low methylation groups of CST6 and LAD1 was 2.0 vs.11.4 months. LAD1 methylation had a specificity of 1.0 (95% CI 0.65-1.0) and a sensitivity of 0.73 (95% CI 0.43-0.90) for the prediction of first-line therapy. CST6 and LAD1 methylation are candidate epigenetic biomarkers showing unprecedented association with PFS and OS as well as specificity for the prediction of the response to therapy. DNA methylation markers should be considered for the prospective evaluation of larger patient cohorts in future studies.
Associations between medical student empathy and personality: a multi-institutional study.	More empathetic physicians are more likely to achieve higher patient satisfaction, adherence to treatments, and health outcomes. In the context of medical education, it is thus important to understand how personality might condition the empathetic development of medical students. Single institutional evidence shows associations between students' personality and empathy. This multi-institutional study aimed to assess such associations across institutions, looking for personality differences between students with high empathy and low empathy levels.
Monocyte expression and soluble levels of the haemoglobin receptor (CD163/sCD163) and the mannose receptor (MR/sMR) in septic and critically ill non-septic ICU patients.	The diagnosis of sepsis is challenging and there is an unmet need for sensitive and specific diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers. Following activation of macrophages and monocytes, the haptoglobin-haemoglobin receptor (CD163) and the mannose receptor (MR) are shed into the circulation (sCD163 and sMR).
Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio as a predictor of acute appendicitis.	Accurately diagnosing appendicitis can be difficult. This retrospective study aimed to evaluate the ability of the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) to predict acute appendicitis pre-operatively and to differentiate between simple and complicated appendicitis.
Interobserver variability in HER-2/neu reporting on immunohistochemistry in breast carcinomas.	To evaluate human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2/neu) interobserver variability between specially trained and untrained general histopathologists.
Risk factors for dislocation of the ulnar nerve after simple decompression for cubital tunnel syndrome.	Anterior dislocation of the ulnar nerve is occasionally encountered after simple decompression of the nerve for treatment of cubital tunnel syndrome. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the incidence of dislocation of the nerve following simple decompression of the nerve is correlated with the patient's preoperative characteristics and/or elbow morphology. We studied 51 patients with cubital tunnel syndrome who underwent surgery at our institution. Intraoperatively, we simulated dislocation of the nerve after simple decompression by flexing the elbow after releasing the nerve in each patient. Univariate and multiple logistic regression analysis showed that young age and a small ulnar nerve groove angle are positively correlated with dislocation of the nerve. Our results suggest that patients who are young and/or have a sharply angled ulnar nerve groove identified radiographically have a high probability of experiencing anterior dislocation of the ulnar nerve after simple decompression. 
The role of cell-free DNA measured by a fluorescent test in the management of isolated traumatic head injuries.	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major cause of death and disability. In this study a new method to measure cell free DNA (CFD) for the management of TBI is tested. Our hypothesis was that CFD concentrations correlate to the magnitude of brain damage, and may predict the outcome of injured patients.
Bleeding rate during oral surgery of oral anticoagulant therapy patients with associated systemic pathologic entities: a prospective study of more than 500 extractions.	Oral anticoagulant therapy (OAT) patients have international normalized ratio (INR) safety windows for oral surgery, the lower limit of which is determined by the thromboembolic risk, with the upper limit typically 3.0. We sought to assess whether these limits will also be true with comorbidities that favor bleeding, such as diabetes, liver disease, and chronic renal failure.
Cancer-risk module identification and module-based disease risk evaluation: a case study on lung cancer.	Gene expression profiles have drawn broad attention in deciphering the pathogenesis of human cancers. Cancer-related gene modules could be identified in co-expression networks and be applied to facilitate cancer research and clinical diagnosis. In this paper, a new method was proposed to identify lung cancer-risk modules and evaluate the module-based disease risks of samples. The results showed that thirty one cancer-risk modules were closely related to the lung cancer genes at the functional level and interactional level, indicating that these modules and genes might synergistically lead to the occurrence of lung cancer. Our method was proved to have good robustness by evaluating the disease risk of samples in eight cancer expression profiles (four for lung cancer and four for other cancers), and had better performance than the WGCNA method. This method could provide assistance to the diagnosis and treatment of cancers and a new clue for explaining cancer mechanisms. 
Noninvasive assessment of hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B viral infection using magnetic resonance elastography.	To evaluate the diagnostic performance of magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) for staging hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection.
Differentiating between adenomyomatosis and gallbladder cancer: revisiting a comparative study of high-resolution ultrasound, multidetector CT, and MR imaging.	To compare the diagnostic performance of high-resolution ultrasound (HRUS) with contrast-enhanced CT and contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with MR cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) to differentiate between adenomyomatosis (ADM) and gallbladder cancer (GBCA).
On the statistics of identifying candidate pathogen effectors.	High-throughput sequencing is an increasingly accessible tool for cataloging gene complements of plant pathogens and their hosts. It has had great impact in plant pathology, enabling rapid acquisition of data for a wide range of pathogens and hosts, leading to the selection of novel candidate effector proteins, and/or associated host targets (Bart et al., Proc Nat Acad Sci U S A doi:10.1073/pnas.1208003109, 2012; Agbor and McCormick, Cell Microbiol 13:1858-1869, 2011; Fabro et al., PLoS Pathog 7:e1002348, 2011; Kim et al., Mol Plant Pathol 2:715-730, 2011; Kimbrel et al., Mol Plant Pathol 12:580-594, 2011; O'Brien et al., Curr Opin Microbiol 14:24-30, 2011; Vleeshouwers et al., Annu Rev Phytopathol 49:507-531, 2011; Sarris et al., Mol Plant Pathol 11:795-804, 2010; Boch and Bonas, Annu Rev Phytopathol 48:419-436, 2010; Mcdermott et al., Infect Immun 79:23-32, 2011).Identification of candidate effectors from genome data is not different from classification in any other high-content or high-throughput experiment. The primary aim is to discover a set of qualitative or quantitative sequence characteristics that discriminate, with a defined level of certainty, between proteins that have previously been identified as being either "effector" (positive) or "not effector" (negative). Combination of these characteristics in a mathematical model, or classifier, enables prediction of whether a protein is or is not an effector, with a defined level of certainty. High-throughput screening of the gene complement is then performed to identify candidate effectors; this may seem straightforward, but it is unfortunately very easy to identify seemingly persuasive candidate effectors that are, in fact, entirely spurious.The main sources of danger in this area of statistical modeling are not entirely independent of each other, and include: inappropriate choice of classifier model; poor selection of reference sequences (known positive and negative examples); poor definition of classes (what is, and what is not, an effector); inadequate training sample size; poor model validation; and lack of adequate model performance metrics (Xia et al., Metabolomics doi:10.1007/s11306-012-0482-9, 2012). Many studies fail to take these issues into account, and thereby fail to discover anything of true significance or, worse, report spurious findings that are impossible to validate. Here we summarize the impact of these issues and present strategies to assist in improving design and evaluation of effector classifiers, enabling robust scientific conclusions to be drawn from the available data.
Prolonged N200 is the early neurophysiologic change in the patient with minimal hepatic encephalopathy.	In neurophysiological studies, P300, is well known for reflecting early cognitive impairment in minimal hepatic encephalopathy (MHE). Although P300 is investigated extensively, other early event-related potential (ERP) parameters have not been studied in MHE.
Quality assessment of X-ray images using modulation transfer function fractal dimension]	Objective evaluation, e.g., using the modulation transfer function (MTF) or the noise power spectrum (NPS) of an X-ray imaging system may not correctly correspond to the subject's evaluation, e.g., when using the receiver operating characteristic (ROC). Moreover, it is difficult to measure MTF or NPS from clinical images. We therefore applied MTF fractal dimension to an X-ray imaging system. The MTF fractal dimension includes the frequency properties of the human eye in addition to quantitative complexity. In this study, we demonstrated a relationship between basic image quality and MTF fractal dimension using simulated and actual X-ray images. 
Stroke volume variation fail to predict fluid responsiveness in patients undergoing pulmonary lobectomy with one-lung ventilation using thoracotomy.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the ability of stroke volume variation (SVV) to predict fluid responsiveness in patients undergoing pulmonary lobectomy with one lung ventilation (OLV). Thirty patients intubated with double-lumen tube were scheduled for a pulmonary lobectomy requiring OLV for at least 1 hour under general anesthesia. Hemodynamic variables including heart rate, mean arterial pressure, cardiac index (CI), stroke volume index (SVI), central venous pressure (CVP) and SVV were measured before and after volume expansion (VE) (8 mL/kg of 6% hydroxyethyl starch). Fluid responsiveness was defined as an increase in CI  10% after VE. Of the 30 patients, 16 (53%) were responders and 14 (47%) were nonresponders to intravascular VE. There were significant increases of CI, SVI in responders after VE (p < 0.01), but there were no significant changes in SVV in responders and nonresponders (p > 0.05). The baseline value of SVV, CVP, CI and SVI did not correlate significantly with CI (p > 0.05). The area under the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve were 0.507 for SVV (95% confidence interval, 0.294-0.720) and 0.556 for CVP (95% confidence interval, 0.339-0.773), neither was able to predict fluid responsiveness with sufficient statistical power. SVV measured by the Vigileo-FloTrac system was not able to predict fluid responsiveness in patients undergoing pulmonary lobectomy with OLV after thoractomy. 
Soluble IL-2 receptor: a biomarker for assessing myositis activity.	To evaluate the clinical significance of serum soluble IL-2R (sIL-2R) in inflammatory myopathies.
Mass spectrometric screening of ovarian cancer with serum glycans.	Changes of glycosylation pattern in serum proteins have been linked to various diseases including cancer, suggesting possible development of novel biomarkers based on the glycomic analysis. In this study, N-linked glycans from human serum were quantitatively profiled by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry (MS) and compared between healthy controls and ovarian cancer patients. A training set consisting of 40 healthy controls and 40 ovarian cancer cases demonstrated an inverse correlation between P value of ANOVA and area under the curve (AUC) of each candidate biomarker peak from MALDI-TOF MS, providing standards for the classification. A multibiomarker panel composed of 15 MALDI-TOF MS peaks resulted in AUC of 0.89, 80~90% sensitivity, and 70~83% specificity in the training set. The performance of the biomarker panel was validated in a separate blind test set composed of 23 healthy controls and 37 ovarian cancer patients, leading to 81~84% sensitivity and 83% specificity with cut-off values determined by the training set. Sensitivity of CA-125, the most widely used ovarian cancer marker, was 74% in the training set and 78% in the test set, respectively. These results indicate that MALDI-TOF MS-mediated serum N-glycan analysis could provide critical information for the screening of ovarian cancer. 
Utility of immune monitoring in heart transplant recipients on everolimus-based immune suppression.	Everolimus provides effective immune suppression (IS) after heart transplant (HTx). Its pharmacologic properties differentiate everolimus from other IS drugs. A non-invasive immune monitoring (IM) assay test appears to predict the immune state in HTx recipients on standard calcineurin-inhibitor-based IS. The utility of IM in HTx recipients on everolimus-based IS was evaluated.
Provisional stenting of coronary bifurcations: insights into final kissing balloon post-dilation and stent design by computational modeling.	This study sought to better understand and optimize provisional main vessel stenting with final kissing balloon dilation (FKBD).
Analysis of risk factors for pancreatic duct stones formation in patients with alcoholic chronic pancreatitis.	Alcoholic chronic pancreatitis (ACP) is the dominant cause of chronic pancreatitis (CP). As a main complication of CP, the formation of pancreatic duct stones (PDS) compromises pancreatic function and symptomatic patients are often subjected to aggressive treatments. The present study aimed to identify PDS risk factors in patients with ACP.
Meta-analysis: diagnostic accuracy of antinuclear antibodies, smooth muscle antibodies and antibodies to a soluble liver antigen/liver pancreas in autoimmune hepatitis.	Antinuclear antibodies (ANA), smooth muscle antibodies (SMA) and antibodies to a soluble liver antigen/liver pancreas (anti-SLA/LP) are useful markers that can help clinicians to diagnose and classify autoimmune hepatitis (AIH).
Staging of cervical lymph nodes in oral squamous cell carcinoma: adding ultrasound in clinically lymph node negative patients may improve diagnostic work-up.	Clinical staging of patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is crucial for the choice of treatment. Computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are typically recommended and used for staging of the cervical lymph nodes (LNs). Although ultrasonography (US) is a non-expensive, accessible and non-ionising imaging modality this method is not consistently used. This study aimed to investigate if addition of US of patients classified as clinically LN negative (cN0) by CT and/or MRI, increases the detection of LN metastases. Also, we aimed to identify which of the sonographic characteristics: echogenicity, border, shape, appearance of hilum and nodal blood-flow pattern best detect metastases in this patient group.
Serum MMP-8 and TIMP-1 in critically ill patients with acute respiratory failure: TIMP-1 is associated with increased 90-day mortality.	Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) likely have an important role in the pathophysiology of acute lung injury. In a recent study, high matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-8) levels in tracheal aspirates of pediatric acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) patients were associated with worse outcome. In patients with sepsis, an imbalance between MMPs and their tissue inhibitors (TIMPs) has been associated with impaired survival. We hypothesized that the elevated systemic MMP-8 and TIMP-1 are associated with worse outcome in acute respiratory failure.
Diagnostic and prognostic implications of a serum miRNA panel in oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma.	Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) are potential biomarkers for cancer detection; however, little is known about their prognostic impact on oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). The current study aims to uncover novel miRNAs for prognostic biomarkers in ESCC patients.
Visceral adiposity index (VAI) is predictive of an altered adipokine profile in patients with type 2 diabetes.	Although there is still no clear definition of "adipose tissue dysfunction" or ATD, the identification of a clinical marker of altered fat distribution and function may provide the needed tools for early identification of a condition of cardiometabolic risk. Our aim was to evaluate the correlations among various anthropometric indices [BMI, Waist Circumference (WC), Hip Circumference (HC), Waist/Hip ratio (WHR), Body Adiposity Index (BAI) and Visceral adiposity Index (VAI)] and several adipocytokines [Visfatin, Resistin, Leptin, Soluble leptin receptors (sOB-R), Adiponectin, Ghrelin, Adipsin, PAI-1, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) TNF-, hs-CRP, IL-6, IL-18] in patients with type 2 diabetes (DM2).
Circulating osteoglycin and NGAL/MMP9 complex concentrations predict 1-year major adverse cardiovascular events after coronary angiography.	Previous proteomics experiments have demonstrated that several proteins are differentially expressed in vulnerable human carotid plaques compared with stable plaques. This study aims to investigate the prognostic value of 13 such circulating biomarkers in patients with coronary artery disease.
Area under precision-recall curves for weighted and unweighted data.	Precision-recall curves are highly informative about the performance of binary classifiers, and the area under these curves is a popular scalar performance measure for comparing different classifiers. However, for many applications class labels are not provided with absolute certainty, but with some degree of confidence, often reflected by weights or soft labels assigned to data points. Computing the area under the precision-recall curve requires interpolating between adjacent supporting points, but previous interpolation schemes are not directly applicable to weighted data. Hence, even in cases where weights were available, they had to be neglected for assessing classifiers using precision-recall curves. Here, we propose an interpolation for precision-recall curves that can also be used for weighted data, and we derive conditions for classification scores yielding the maximum and minimum area under the precision-recall curve. We investigate accordances and differences of the proposed interpolation and previous ones, and we demonstrate that taking into account existing weights of test data is important for the comparison of classifiers. 
The construction of risk prediction models using GWAS data and its application to a type 2 diabetes prospective cohort.	Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified several novel single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with type 2 diabetes (T2D). Various models using clinical and/or genetic risk factors have been developed for T2D risk prediction. However, analysis considering algorithms for genetic risk factor detection and regression methods for model construction in combination with interactions of risk factors has not been investigated. Here, using genotype data of 7,360 Japanese individuals, we investigated risk prediction models, considering the algorithms, regression methods and interactions. The best model identified was based on a Bayes factor approach and the lasso method. Using nine SNPs and clinical factors, this method achieved an area under a receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.8057 on an independent test set. With the addition of a pair of interaction factors, the model was further improved (p-value 0.0011, AUC 0.8085). Application of our model to prospective cohort data showed significantly better outcome in disease-free survival, according to the log-rank trend test comparing Kaplan-Meier survival curves (p--value 2:09 x 10(-11)). While the major contribution was from clinical factors rather than the genetic factors, consideration of genetic risk factors contributed to an observable, though small, increase in predictive ability. This is the first report to apply risk prediction models constructed from GWAS data to a T2D prospective cohort. Our study shows our model to be effective in prospective prediction and has the potential to contribute to practical clinical use in T2D.
Ankylosing spondylitis functional and activity indices in clinical practice.	Clinicians have at hand several indices to evaluate disease activity and functionality in ankylosing spondylitis (AS), in order to evaluate the prognostic and the treatment of AS patients.
Adiposity measurements in association with metabolic syndrome in older men have different clinical implications.	Obesity is a major public health problem, and measuring adiposity accurately and predicting its future comorbidities are important issues. Therefore, we hypothesized that 4 adiposity measurements, body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC), waist-to-height ratio, and body fat percentage, have different physiological meanings and distinct associations with adverse health consequences. This study aimed to investigate the relationship of these 4 measurements with metabolic syndrome (MetS) components and identify the most associated factor for MetS occurrence in older, non-medicated men. Cross-sectional data from 3004 men, all 65 years of age and older, were analyzed. The correlation and association between adiposity measurements and MetS components were evaluated by Pearson correlation and multiple linear regression. Based on multivariate logistic regression, BMI and WC were significantly associated with MetS and were selected to build a combined model of receiver operating characteristic curves to increase the diagnosis accuracy for MetS. The results show that BMI is independently associated with systolic and diastolic blood pressure; WC and body fat percentage are associated with fasting plasma glucose and log transformation of triglyceride; BMI and WC are negatively associated with high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C); and WC is a better discriminate for MetS than BMI, although the combined model (WC + BMI) is not significantly better than WC alone. Based on these results, we conclude that the 4 adiposity measurements have different clinical implications. Thus, in older men, BMI is an important determinant for blood pressure and HDL-C. Waist circumference is associated with the risk of fasting plasma glucose, HDL-C, triglyceride, and MetS occurrence. The combined model did not increase the diagnosis accuracy. 
Enhanced stromal syndecan-1 expression is an independent risk factor for poor survival in bladder cancer.	In this study, we assessed the changes and prognostic relevance of syndecan-1 (SDC1) tissue and serum levels in bladder cancer (BC). SDC1 levels were analyzed in 213 samples (119 paraffin-embedded and 79 serum samples of BC patients and 15 controls) using immunohistochemistry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results were correlated with clinicopathological characteristics and follow-up data, as well as previously determined serum levels of angiogenic factors (basic fibroblast growth factor, endostatin, angiostatin, angiopoietin, vascular endothelial growth factor, Tie2 and MMP-7). SDC1 staining was present in the cell membrane of normal bladder epithelium and non-muscle-invasive BC cells but was absent in a significant proportion of muscle-invasive carcinomas (P < .001). In contrast, stromal SDC1 expression was enhanced in muscle-invasive compared to non-muscle-invasive BCs (P = .001). Serum concentrations of the SDC1 ectodomain were higher in muscle-invasive BCs compared to controls or non-muscle-invasive carcinomas (P < .001 each). Lymph node-positive cases had the highest SDC1 serum concentrations (P < .001). SDC1 expression in stromal cells was independently associated with survival (hazard ratio = 2.034, 95% confidence interval 1.176-3.519, P = .011). SDC1 serum concentrations correlated with those of endostatin and matrix metalloproteinase 7. Loss of SDC1 in tumor cells and the parallel increase of serum SDC1 ectodomain concentration in high-stage, high-grade BCs suggest the involvement of SDC1 shedding in BC progression. In addition, high preoperative SDC1 serum levels may help to identify patients with lymph node metastases, supporting therapeutic decision-making. Presence of SDC1 in tumor stroma is an independent risk factor for patient survival and may therefore be used to select patients for more aggressive therapy. 
Acute lung allograft rejection: diagnostic role of probe-based confocal laser endomicroscopy of the respiratory tract.	Acute cellular rejection (AR) after lung transplantation may result in significant morbidity and mortality both on the short and long term. Transbronchial biopsy through flexible bronchoscopy is highly sensitive for the diagnosis of AR, but reproducibility of histopathologic interpretation is less convincing. Probe-based confocal laser endomicroscopy (pCLE), a novel imaging tool in the field of respiratory medicine, enables real-time imaging of the pulmonary acini.
Glaucoma progression detection using structural retinal nerve fiber layer measurements and functional visual field points.	Machine learning classifiers were employed to detect glaucomatous progression using longitudinal series of structural data extracted from retinal nerve fiber layer thickness measurements and visual functional data recorded from standard automated perimetry tests. Using the collected data, a longitudinal feature vector was created for each patient's eye by computing the norm 1 difference vector of the data at the baseline and at each follow-up visit. The longitudinal features from each patient's eye were then fed to the machine learning classifier to classify each eye as stable or progressed over time. This study was performed using several machine learning classifiers including Bayesian, Lazy, Meta, and Tree, composing different families. Combinations of structural and functional features were selected and ranked to determine the relative effectiveness of each feature. Finally, the outcomes of the classifiers were assessed by several performance metrics and the effectiveness of structural and functional features were analyzed. 
Diagnostic yield of the light blue crest sign in gastric intestinal metaplasia: a meta-analysis.	The diagnostic yield of light blue crest(LBC) sign, which was observed by narrow band imaging with magnification endoscopy(NBI-ME), in detecting gastric intestinal metaplasia(IM) has shown variable results.
The Epworth Sleepiness Scale for screening of the drowsy driving: comparison with the maintenance of wakefulness test in an Iranian sample of commercial drivers.	Traffic fatalities are a major cause of morbidity and mortality in Iran. Occupational sleep medicine field needs more cost-effective and applicable tests for screening purposes. This study reports on a pilot screening study for drowsy drivers in an urban Iranian sample of commercial drivers. The Maintenance of Wakefulness Test (MWT) measures the ability to remain awake objectively. Sleep latency in MWT is a reasonable predictor of driving simulator performance in drivers. In this study, we evaluate whether the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) and MWT are equally useful in drivers with possible Excessive Daytime Sleepiness (EDS). 46 consecutive road truck drivers in a transportation terminal entered into this study. The ESS score of patients with normal and abnormal MWT was 3.242.4 and 4.083 respectively which was not significantly differenced (P value = 0.34). No significant correlation was found between the ESS and sleep latency in MWT (r=-0.28, 95%CI= -0.58 to 0.02). By using the receiver operating characteristic analysis, the area under the curve was found to be 0.57 (95% confidence interval = 0.37- 0.77) which is not statistically acceptable (P value=0.46). Our finding showed that the MWT and ESS do not measure the same parameter. 
YKL-40 in Asthma and its correlation with different clinical parameters.	It has been suggested that elevated serum level of YKL-40 could be a marker for asthma and its severity. Along with few published studies, we investigated its correlation with asthma and its severity as well as spirometric indices.114 patients with asthma and 114 healthy controls underwent the assessment of serum level of YKL-40 (by ELISA) and spirometric indices. Pearson's coefficient determined the correlation between the variables and multivariate linear regression analysis was used for adjusting the effect of different probable confounding factors.Serum levels of YKL-40 were significantly higher in the asthmatic patients compared to those in healthy people (p<0.001). We also found a significant correlation between YKL-40 serum level and spirometric indices even after adjusting the effects of other variables.We report for the first time in an Iranian population that YKL-40 may be a good diagnostic marker of asthma in serum. 
Percent free prostate-specific antigen does not improve the effectiveness of prostate cancer detection in Chinese men with a prostate-specific antigen of 2.5-20.0 ng/ml: a multicenter study.	The prostate-specific antigen (PSA) "gray zone" in Chinese men is likely higher than the traditional value (2.5-10.0 ng/ml) since the incidence of prostate cancer in Chinese men is relative low. The utility of percent free PSA in predicting prostate cancer is based on Western populations and may introduce sizable bias when applied to a Chinese cohort. We assessed the efficacy of percent free PSA in predicting prostate cancer in Chinese men with a PSA of 2.5-10.0 and 10.1-20.0 ng/ml. A total of 558 men with a PSA of 2.5-20.0 ng/ml who had undergone prostatic biopsy to detect prostate cancer from two Chinese centers were included. The rates of prostate cancer in different percent free PSA ranges were evaluated. Receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) was used to evaluate and compare the efficiency of PSA and percent free PSA in the diagnosis of prostate cancer. The areas under ROC (AUCs) for percent free PSA for predicting prostate cancer were not higher than those for PSA, although prostate cancer detection rates increased with decreased percent free PSA in men with a PSA of 2.5-10.0, 10.1-20.0, and 2.5-20.0 ng/ml. Similarly, for men aged <70 and  70 years and with prostate volume <40 and  40 ml, AUCs showed percent free PSA was not better than PSA in predicting prostate cancer. By analyzing multicenter data, we first found that percent free PSA does not improve detection of prostate cancer in Chinese men with a PSA of 2.5-10.0 or 10.1-20.0 ng/ml.
Serum omentin-1 as a disease activity marker for Crohn's disease.	It remains challenging to determine the inflammatory activity in Crohn's disease (CD) for lack of specific laboratory markers. Recent studies suggest that serum omentin-1 is associated with inflammatory response. We aimed to assess the potential of serum omentin-1 as a marker of disease activity in CD patients.
Establishment and validation of serum free light chain reference intervals in an ethnic Chinese population.	Quantification of serum free light chains (FLC) and calculation of a kappa/lambda ratio using polyclonal antisera based immunoassays provide laboratories with a sensitive alternative to urine protein electrophoresis (UPE). However, the published 0.26 - 1.65 serum FLC kappa/lambda ratio reference intervals may not be suitable for different ethnic populations (such as the Han Chinese population presented) and require validation. This is particularly important where there are significant differences in ethnicity, and hence HLA prevalence, in the population studied.
Decreased activated protein C levels are inversely associated with the urinary albumin excretion rate in patients with type 2 diabetes.	Activated protein C (APC) plays a vital renoprotective role against diabetic nephropathy in STZ-induced diabetic mice by inhibiting endothelial cell and podocyte apoptosis. This study aimed to examine the relationship between the degree of albuminuria and APC levels in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Development and validation of a clinical risk score for predicting drug-resistant bacterial pneumonia in older Chinese patients.	Health care-associated pneumonia (HCAP) and drug-resistant bacterial pneumonia may not share identical risk factors. We have shown that bronchiectasis, recent hospitalization and severe pneumonia (confusion, blood urea level, respiratory rate, low blood pressure and 65 year old (CURB-65) score  3) were independent predictors of pneumonia caused by potentially drug-resistant (PDR) pathogens. This study aimed to develop and validate a clinical risk score for predicting drug-resistant bacterial pneumonia in older patients.
Diagnostic value of the soluble triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells-1 in lower respiratory tract infections: a meta-analysis.	The soluble triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells-1 (sTREM-1) is a promising diagnostic marker for many types of infections. A bivariate meta-analysis was performed to evaluate its diagnostic value for lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI). We searched PubMed, Cochrane Library and Web of Science (from January 1966 to August 2013) for all trials assessing diagnostic value of sTREM-1 for LRTI. The pooled sensitivity, specificity, positive likelihood ratio(PLR), negative likelihood ratio(NLR), diagnostic odds ratio (DOR), the area under summary receiver operator characteristic (SROC) curve and the Q* were calculated. Thirteen studies with 1138 patients were included in our meta-analysis. The pooled sensitivity and specificity of sTREM-1 for diagnosis of LRTI was 0.84 and 0.77. The PLR, NLR and DOR were 3.6, 0.21 and 17. The area under SROC curve was 0.88 and the Q* was 0.82. The univariate meta-regression analysis demonstrated that the assay method for sTREM-1 significantly affected sensitivity for LRTI. The Q* of sTREM-1 for diagnosis of community-acquired LRTI was 0.82, and the area under SROC curve was 0.88. The Q* of sTREM-1 in diagnosis of hospital-acquired LRTI was 0.83, and the area under SROC curve was 0.90. The Q* of sTREM-1 for distinguishing culture-positive LRTI from culture-negative diseases was 0.79, and the area under SROC curve was 0.86. Current evidence suggests that sTREM-1 is an accurate marker of LRTI. The overall diagnostic value of sTREM-1 for LRTI, community-acquired LRTI and hospital-acquired LRTI is similar.
The aortic valve calcium nodule score (AVCNS) independently predicts paravalvular regurgitation after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR).	Paravalvular regurgitation (PVR) is an important predictor of mortality after transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Aortic valve (AV) calcification is strongly associated with PVR.
Cardiovascular CT in the diagnosis of pericardial constriction: predictive value of inferior vena cava cross-sectional area.	The diagnosis of pericardial constriction remains challenging.
Discovery of Apo-A1 as a potential bladder cancer biomarker by urine proteomics and analysis.	Bladder cancer is clinically characterized by high recurrent rate and poor prognosis and thereby patients need regular re-examinations which are invasive, unpleasant, and expensive. A noninvasive and less expensive method for detecting and monitoring bladder cancer would thus be advantageous. In this study, by using the two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) approach with subsequent mass spectrometry (MS), we demonstrated the increased expression of apolipoprotein-A1 (Apo-A1) in individual urine from patients with bladder cancer, which was confirmed by Western blot results. A further analysis of the urinary Apo-A1 levels by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay yielded results that were consistent with the Western blot, and suggested Apo-A1 could provide diagnostic utility to distinguish patients with bladder cancer from healthy controls at 19.21 ng/ml. Further validation assay in a larger number of urine samples (n=379) showed that Apo-A1 could be used as a biomarker to diagnosis bladder cancer with a sensitivity and specificity of 89.2% and 84.6% respectively. Moreover, the application of exfoliative urinary cytology in combination with the urine Apo-A1 detection could significantly increased the sensitivity in detecting bladder cancer. Our data showed a significant relationship of expressed Apo-A1 was established between bladder cancer and normal controls. Apo-A1 could be a potential biomarker for the diagnosis of bladder cancer.
Amplification and overexpression of TP63 and MYC as biomarkers for transition of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia to cervical cancer.	Biopsy confirmed that cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) may naturally regress or progress. Currently, the risk assessment for CIN progression to cervical cancer is still not satisfactory in clinical practice. We investigated copy number and protein expression of TP63 and MYC and explored the possibility to use them as progression biomarkers.
Developing best practices to study trauma outcomes in large databases: an evidence-based approach to determine the best mortality risk adjustment model.	The National Trauma Data Bank (NTDB) is an invaluable resource to study trauma outcomes. Recent evidence suggests the existence of great variability in covariate handling and inclusion in multivariable analyses using NTDB, leading to differences in the quality of published studies and potentially in benchmarking trauma centers. Our objectives were to identify the best possible mortality risk adjustment model (RAM) and to define the minimum number of covariates required to adequately predict trauma mortality in the NTDB.
Low paraoxonase 1 activity predicts mortality in surgical patients with sepsis.	State of severe oxidative stress is encountered in sepsis. Paraoxonase 1 (PON1) protects against oxidative stress but also undergoes inactivation upon that condition. We investigated PON1 activity in surgical patients with sepsis in relation to oxidative stress status, inflammation, disease severity, and survival.
Spectral detection of thalassemia: a preliminary study.	Thalassemias (Thal) are forms of inherited autosomal recessive blood disorders arising out of mutations in the chromosomes 11 or 16. These disorders lead to poor oxygen delivery to blood vessels and consequent splenomegaly, bone deformities, and shorter life spans. The most common detection methods for Thal are complete blood count (CBC) followed by electrophoresis and molecular diagnosis methods, such as high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) genotyping. These methods involve sophisticated instrumentations and are cumbersome and expensive.
Determination of protein phosphatase type 2A inmonocytes from multiple trauma patients: a potential biomarker for sepsis.	Protein phosphatase type 2A (PP2A) can downregulate c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) expression in monocytes stimulated by lipopolysaccharide. However, this effect has not been evaluated in patients with sepsis. We sought to determine whether PP2A/JNK pathway is involved in sepsis and whether PP2A expression can be associated with patient outcome.
A novel automatic suspicious mass regions identification using Havrda & Charvat entropy and Otsu's N thresholding.	Mass detection is a very important process for breast cancer diagnosis and computer aided systems. It can be very complex when the mass is small or invisible because of dense breast tissue. Therefore, the extraction of suspicious mass region can be very challenging. This paper proposes a novel segmentation algorithm to identify mass candidate regions in mammograms. The proposed system includes three parts: breast region and pectoral muscle segmentation, image enhancement and suspicious mass regions identification. The first two parts have been examined in previous studies. In this study, we focused on suspicious mass regions identification using a combination of Havrda & Charvat entropy method and Otsu's N thresholding method. An open access Mammographic Image Analysis Society (MIAS) database, which contains 59 masses, was used for the study. The proposed system obtained a 93% sensitivity rate for suspicious mass regions identification in 56 abnormal and 40 normal images. 
Vergence facility with stereoscopic and nonstereoscopic targets.	To compare vergence facility with nonstereo and stereo targets in binocular symptomatic and asymptomatic subjects.
Diagnostic value of 99mTc-bombesin scintigraphy for differentiation of malignant from benign breast lesions.	In this study, we evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of (99m)Tc-bombesin scintigraphy for differentiation of benign from malignant palpable breast lesions. (99m)Tc-Bombesin is a tracer with high affinity for gastrin-releasing peptide receptor, which is overexpressed on a variety of human tumors including breast carcinoma.
Attentive scanning behavior drives one-trial potentiation of hippocampal place fields.	The hippocampus is thought to have a critical role in episodic memory by incorporating the sensory input of an experience onto a spatial framework embodied by place cells. Although the formation and stability of place fields requires exploration, the interaction between discrete exploratory behaviors and the specific, immediate and persistent modifications of neural representations required by episodic memory has not been established. We recorded place cells in rats and found that increased neural activity during exploratory head-scanning behaviors predicted the formation and potentiation of place fields on the next pass through that location, regardless of environmental familiarity and across multiple testing days. These results strongly suggest that, during the attentive behaviors that punctuate exploration, place cell activity mediates the one-trial encoding of ongoing experiences necessary for episodic memory. 
Elevated plasma YKL-40 as a prognostic indicator in patients with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension.	Pulmonary vascular remodelling and inflammation have been implicated in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). YKL-40, a marker of tissue remodelling and inflammation, has recently been recognized as a risk predictor of cardiovascular and inflammatory diseases. The study aimed to investigate a potential role of YKL-40 in predicting prognosis in idiopathic PAH (IPAH).
Differentiation of Crohn's disease from intestinal tuberculosis by clinical and CT enterographic models.	Crohn's disease (CD) and intestinal tuberculosis (ITB) have similar clinical, radiological, and endoscopic features. The objective of our study was to investigate the values of clinical features and computed tomographic (CT) enterographic manifestations in the differential diagnosis between CD and ITB.
Relationship of circulating hyaluronic acid levels to disease control in asthma and asthmatic pregnancy.	Uncontrolled asthma is a risk factor for pregnancy-related complications. Hyaluronic acid (HA), a potential peripheral blood marker of tissue fibrosis in various diseases, promotes eosinophil survival and plays a role in asthmatic airway inflammation as well as in physiological processes necessary to maintain normal pregnancy; however the level of circulating HA in asthma and asthmatic pregnancy is unknown. We investigated HA levels in asthmatic patients (N=52; asthmatic pregnant (AP) N=16; asthmatic non-pregnant (ANP) N=36) and tested their relationship to asthma control. Serum HA level was lower in AP than in ANP patients (27 [24.7-31.55] vs. 37.4 [30.1-66.55] ng/mL, p=0.006); the difference attenuated to a trend after its adjustment for patients' age (p=0.056). HA levels and airway resistance were positively (r=0.467, p=0.004), HA levels and Asthma Control Test (ACT) total score inversely (r=-0.437, p=0.01) associated in ANP patients; these relationships remained significant even after their adjustments for age. The potential value of HA in the determination of asthma control was analyzed using ROC analysis which revealed that HA values discriminate patients with ACT total score 20 (controlled patients) and <20 (uncontrolled patients) with a 0.826 efficacy (AUC, 95% CI: 0.69-0.97, p=0.001) when 37.4 ng/mL is used as cut-off value in ANP group, and with 0.78 efficacy (AUC, 95% CI: 0.65-0.92, p=0.0009) in the whole asthmatic cohort. In conclusion circulating HA might be a marker of asthma control, as it correlates with airway resistance and has good sensitivity in the detection of impaired asthma control. Decrease of HA level in pregnancy may be the consequence of pregnancy induced immune tolerance. 
High-risk HPV nucleic acid detection kit-the careHPV test -a new detection method for screening.	This study assessed the clinical accuracy of the correlation between the careHPV test and the HC2 test, as well as the correlation between the careHPV test and the HPV-PCR test. From September 21 to December 31, 2009, 419 cervical specimens from women, 30-49 years, were collected. All women were assessed by Digene HC2 High-Risk HPV DNA Test (HC2), careHPV test, and HPV-PCR. The concordance rate between careHPV and HC2 was 93.81% and between careHPV and HPV-PCR 88.12%. The sensitivity and specificity of the careHPV test to detect cancers of equal or greater severity than CIN 2 were 85.71% and 83.15% respectively. Results from careHPV, HC2, and HPV-PCR were highly consistent. The careHPV test has good sensitivity and specificity for the detection of HPV infection and is a promising primary screening method for cervical cancer in low-resource regions. 
Plasma sphingolipids as potential indicators of hepatic necroinflammation in patients with chronic hepatitis C and normal alanine aminotransferase level.	Accurate estimation of hepatic necroinflammation caused by chronic hepatitis C (CHC) is crucial for prediction of prognosis and design of therapeutic strategy, which is particularly true for CHC patients with normal alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level. Recent studies have shown that sphingolipids have a close relationship with hepatitis C virus infection. The present study aimed to identify plasma sphingolipids related to hepatic necroinflammation. We included 120 treatment-nave CHC patients and 64/120 had normal ALT levels (<40 U/L). CHC patients who underwent liver biopsies were subjected to Scheuer scoring analysis for scope of hepatic inflammation. Plasma sphingolipids were detected by high-performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Our results showed 44 plasma sphingolipids were detected altogether. Of all detected sphingolipids, hexosylceramide (HexCer) (d181/220) and HexCer (d181/240) showed a significant difference among G0/G1, G2, and G3/G4 (P<0.05). For identifying hepatic necroinflammation (G2), after adjusting other factors, the odds ratio (OR) of HexCer (d181/220) reached 1.01 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.00-1.02). Furthermore, the area under the curve (AUC) of HexCer (d181/220) was 0.7 (P=0.01) and approached that of ALT (AUC=0.78). However, in CHC patients with normal ALT, HexCer (d181/220) was an independent factor (OR: 1.02, 95% CI: 1.01-1.03) to identify the hepatic necroinflammation (G2). HexCer (d181/220) not only showed the largest AUC (0.78, P=0.001), but also exhibited the highest specificity of all indicators. These results indicate that plasma HexCer (d181/220) is a potential indicator to distinguish hepatic necroinflammation in CHC patients. For CHC with normal ALT, the ability of HexCer (d181/220) to distinguish hepatic necroinflammation might be superior to conventional serum indicators. 
Gastro-esophageal reflux disease symptoms and demographic factors as a pre-screening tool for Barrett's esophagus.	Barrett's esophagus (BE) occurs as consequence of reflux and is a risk factor for esophageal adenocarcinoma. The current "gold-standard" for diagnosing BE is endoscopy which remains prohibitively expensive and impractical as a population screening tool. We aimed to develop a pre-screening tool to aid decision making for diagnostic referrals.
CMT: a constrained multi-level thresholding approach for ChIP-Seq data analysis.	Genome-wide profiling of DNA-binding proteins using ChIP-Seq has emerged as an alternative to ChIP-chip methods. ChIP-Seq technology offers many advantages over ChIP-chip arrays, including but not limited to less noise, higher resolution, and more coverage. Several algorithms have been developed to take advantage of these abilities and find enriched regions by analyzing ChIP-Seq data. However, the complexity of analyzing various patterns of ChIP-Seq signals still needs the development of new algorithms. Most current algorithms use various heuristics to detect regions accurately. However, despite how many formulations are available, it is still difficult to accurately determine individual peaks corresponding to each binding event. We developed Constrained Multi-level Thresholding (CMT), an algorithm used to detect enriched regions on ChIP-Seq data. CMT employs a constraint-based module that can target regions within a specific range. We show that CMT has higher accuracy in detecting enriched regions (peaks) by objectively assessing its performance relative to other previously proposed peak finders. This is shown by testing three algorithms on the well-known FoxA1 Data set, four transcription factors (with a total of six antibodies) for Drosophila melanogaster and the H3K4ac antibody dataset. 
The performance of enhanced liver fibrosis (ELF) test for the staging of liver fibrosis: a meta-analysis.	The enhanced liver fibrosis test (ELF) has been shown to accurately predict significant liver fibrosis in several liver diseases.
Validation of type 2 diabetes risk variants identified by genome-wide association studies in Han Chinese population: a replication study and meta-analysis.	Several genome-wide association studies (GWAS) involving European populations have successfully identified risk genetic variants associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). However, the effects conferred by these variants in Han Chinese population have not yet been fully elucidated.
Effect of thrombelastography in the diagnosis of disseminated intravascular coagulation in children]	To study the effect of thrombelastography (TEM) in the diagnosis of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) in children.
Bridging the gap between the human and macaque connectome: a quantitative comparison of global interspecies structure-function relationships and network topology.	Resting state functional connectivity MRI (rs-fcMRI) may provide a powerful and noninvasive "bridge" for comparing brain function between patients and experimental animal models; however, the relationship between human and macaque rs-fcMRI remains poorly understood. Here, using a novel surface deformation process for species comparisons in the same anatomical space (Van Essen, 2004, 2005), we found high correspondence, but also unique hub topology, between human and macaque functional connectomes. The global functional connectivity match between species was moderate to strong (r = 0.41) and increased when considering the top 15% strongest connections (r = 0.54). Analysis of the match between functional connectivity and the underlying anatomical connectivity, derived from a previous retrograde tracer study done in macaques (Markov et al., 2012), showed impressive structure-function correspondence in both the macaque and human. When examining the strongest structural connections, we found a 70-80% match between structural and functional connectivity matrices in both species. Finally, we compare species on two widely used metrics for studying hub topology: degree and betweenness centrality. The data showed topological agreement across the species, with nodes of the posterior cingulate showing high degree and betweenness centrality. In contrast, nodes in medial frontal and parietal cortices were identified as having high degree and betweenness in the human as opposed to the macaque. Our results provide: (1) a thorough examination and validation for a surface-based interspecies deformation process, (2) a strong theoretical foundation for making interspecies comparisons of rs-fcMRI, and (3) a unique look at topological distinctions between the species. 
Predictive saccade target selection in superior colliculus during visual search.	Searching for a visual object naturally involves sequences of gaze fixations, during which the current foveal image is analyzed and the next object to inspect is selected as a saccade target. Fixation durations during such sequences are short, suggesting that saccades may be concurrently processed. Therefore, the selection of the next saccade target may occur before the current saccade target is acquired. To test this hypothesis, we trained four female rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) to perform a multiple-fixation visual conjunction search task. We simultaneously recorded the activity of sensorimotor neurons in the midbrain superior colliculus (SC) in two monkeys. In this task, monkeys made multiple fixations before foveating the target. Fixation durations were significantly shorter than the latency of the initial responses to the search display, with approximately one-quarter being shorter than the shortest response latencies. The time at which SC sensorimotor activity discriminated the target from distracters occurred significantly earlier for the selection of subsequent fixations than for the selection of the first fixation. Target selection during subsequent fixations occurred even before the visual afferent delay in more than half of the neuronal sample, suggesting that the process of selection can encompass at least two future saccade targets. This predictive selection was present even when differences in saccade latencies were taken into account. Altogether, these findings demonstrate how neural representations on the visual salience map are processed in parallel, thus facilitating visual search. 
Interpretation of ANA indirect immunofluorescence test outside the darkroom using NOVA view compared to manual microscopy.	To evaluate NOVA View with focus on reading archived images versus microscope based manual interpretation of ANA HEp-2 slides by an experienced, certified medical technologist.
Analytical and clinical comparison of two fully automated immunoassay systems for the diagnosis of celiac disease.	Here we compared analytical and clinical performance characteristics of two novel automated assay systems for the detection of celiac disease (CD) specific antibodies: QUANTA Flash (INOVA Diagnostics, Inc.) and EliA (Thermo Scientific).
Optimal waist circumference cut-off values for predicting cardiovascular risk factors in a multi-ethnic Malaysian population.	Previous studies have proposed the lower waist circumference (WC) cutoffs be used for defining abdominal obesity in Asian populations.
Left atrial size predicts adverse cardiac events in patients with non-obstruction hypertrophic cardiomyopathy]	To evaluate the relationship between left atrial size and the risk of cardiac events in patients with non-obstruction hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
Positive predictors for gastroesophageal reflux disease and the therapeutic response to proton-pump inhibitors.	To identify objective and subjective predictors for the reliable diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and the response to proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy.
Combined detection tumor markers for diagnosis and prognosis of gallbladder cancer.	To clarify the value of combined use of markers for the diagnosis of gallbladder cancer and prediction of its prognosis.
Validity and reliability of the Brief Insomnia Questionnaire in the general population in Hong Kong.	The Brief Insomnia Questionnaire (BIQ) was first validated in the U.S. for insomnia disorders according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, Fourth Edition, Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR), International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Edition (ICD-10) and research diagnostic criteria/International Classification of Sleep Disorders, Second Edition (RDC/ICSD-2). We aimed to determine the validity and reliability of a Hong Kong Chinese version of the BIQ to derive the DSM-5 in addition to other insomnia diagnoses in a general population sample.
CC chemokine ligand 18 and IGF-binding protein 6 as potential serum biomarkers for prostate cancer.	Prostate cancer (PCa) is the second leading cause of cancer-related death in men globally. However, there are few sensitive biomarkers for PCa, especially those which can distinguish PCa and benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH). Antibody microarrays allow for high-throughput and high-sensitivity detection of multiple proteins simultaneously, providing a powerful tool for biomarker screening. Here, we selected 46 patients with PCa and 42 controls with BPH, and compared the serum levels of different cytokines in PCa and BPH patients using antibody microarrays. The results indicated that serum levels of macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) and CC chemokine ligand 18 (CCL-18) were remarkably higher in PCa patients than those in BPH patients, while serum levels of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 6 (IGFBP-6) and Fas receptor (Fas), also called tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 6 (TNFRSF6), were significantly lower. M-CSF and Fas/TNFRSF6 have been reported to be associated with PCa pathogenesis, and thus were used as positive controls in the present study. CCL-18 is a chemokine primarily involved in recruitment of the adaptive immune system, while IGFBP-6 has been reported to inhibit proliferation of PCa cells. Serum levels of these four cytokines could distinguish PCa from BPH with high sensitivity and high specificity. Furthermore, the area under the ROC curve (AUC) was above 0.925 and 0.835 for CCL-18 and IGFBP-6, respectively, implying their high diagnostic value. In conclusion, we have identified CCL-18 and IGFBP-6 as new potential serum biomarkers for PCa. 
Predicting the need for massive transfusion in trauma patients: the Traumatic Bleeding Severity Score.	The ability to easily predict the need for massive transfusion may improve the process of care, allowing early mobilization of resources. There are currently no clear criteria to activate massive transfusion in severely injured trauma patients. The aims of this study were to create a scoring system to predict the need for massive transfusion and then to validate this scoring system.
Inferring cell-scale signalling networks via compressive sensing.	Signalling network inference is a central problem in system biology. Previous studies investigate this problem by independently inferring local signalling networks and then linking them together via crosstalk. Since a cellular signalling system is in fact indivisible, this reductionistic approach may have an impact on the accuracy of the inference results. Preferably, a cell-scale signalling network should be inferred as a whole. However, the holistic approach suffers from three practical issues: scalability, measurement and overfitting. Here we make this approach feasible based on two key observations: 1) variations of concentrations are sparse due to separations of timescales; 2) several species can be measured together using cross-reactivity. We propose a method, CCELL, for cell-scale signalling network inference from time series generated by immunoprecipitation using Bayesian compressive sensing. A set of benchmark networks with varying numbers of time-variant species is used to demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. Instead of exhaustively measuring all individual species, high accuracy is achieved from relatively few measurements. 
A robust classifier to distinguish noise from fMRI independent components.	Analyzing Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) of resting brains to determine the spatial location and activity of intrinsic brain networks--a novel and burgeoning research field--is limited by the lack of ground truth and the tendency of analyses to overfit the data. Independent Component Analysis (ICA) is commonly used to separate the data into signal and Gaussian noise components, and then map these components on to spatial networks. Identifying noise from this data, however, is a tedious process that has proven hard to automate, particularly when data from different institutions, subjects, and scanners is used. Here we present an automated method to delineate noisy independent components in ICA using a data-driven infrastructure that queries a database of 246 spatial and temporal features to discover a computational signature of different types of noise. We evaluated the performance of our method to detect noisy components from healthy control fMRI (sensitivity=0.91, specificity=0.82, cross validation accuracy (CVA)=0.87, area under the curve (AUC)=0.93), and demonstrate its generalizability by showing equivalent performance on (1) an age- and scanner-matched cohort of schizophrenia patients from the same institution (sensitivity=0.89, specificity=0.83, CVA=0.86), (2) an age-matched cohort on an equivalent scanner from a different institution (sensitivity=0.88, specificity=0.88, CVA=0.88), and (3) an age-matched cohort on a different scanner from a different institution (sensitivity=0.72, specificity=0.92, CVA=0.79). We additionally compare our approach with a recently published method. Our results suggest that our method is robust to noise variations due to population as well as scanner differences, thereby making it well suited to the goal of automatically distinguishing noise from functional networks to enable investigation of human brain function.
IFNL4 ss469415590 variant shows similar performance to rs12979860 as predictor of response to treatment against Hepatitis C Virus genotype 1 or 4 in Caucasians.	The rs12979860 variant, linked to IL28B gene, predicts sustained viral response (SVR) to pegylated-interferon/ribavirin (pegIFN/RBV) therapy in Hepatitis C Virus genotype 1 or 4 (HCV-1/4)-infected patients. Recently, a functional variant, ss469415590, in linkage disequilibrium (LD) with rs12979860, has been discovered. Our objective was to assess the value of ss469415590 to predict SVR to pegIFN/RBV in Caucasian HCV-1/4-infected individuals and to compare its performance with that of rs12979860.
The diagnostic value of serum beta-hydroxybutyrate in diabetic ketosis or diabetic ketoacidosis]	To determine the diagnostic value of serum beta-hydroxybutyrate (betaOHB) in diabetic ketosis or diabetic ketoacidosis.
Study of glycated albumin cut-off point in diabetes mellitus and impaired glucose regulation]	To investigate the cut-off point of glycated albumin (GA) in the detection of diabetes mellitus (DM) and impaired glucose regulation (IGR).
Diagnostic performance of CT attenuation values of focal 18F-FDG avid breast lesions detected on whole-body PET-CT in postoperative breast cancer patients.	To assess whether CT attenuation values help in differentiating benign from malignant etiology of focal (18) F-FDG avid breast lesions detected on whole-body PET/CT exam in postoperative breast cancer patients. Institutional review board approval and waived informed consent were obtained for this HIPAA-compliant retrospective study. Between January 2009 and July 2011, a total of 85 patients had 97 focal (18) F-FDG avid breast lesions on whole-body PET/CT. Of these, 54 (56%) lesions were biopsy-proven primary invasive breast carcinoma that had not undergone treatment at the time of PET/CT, 35 (36%) were benign lesions, and 8 were locally recurrent breast carcinoma. Mean attenuation values were retrospectively measured in Hounsfield units (HU) for the correlative lesion on the CT portion of the exam. Receiver-operating characteristic curves (ROC) were calculated to determine the optimal cutoff values of HU that would best discriminate between benign and malignant lesions. Interobserver agreement for measured mean attenuation values was assessed by calculating the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Mean HU for the benign lesions group and the local recurrence lesions group was -11.030.3 versus 32.96.87 (p<0.0002). ROC curve analysis comparing benign breast lesions to local recurrence lesions found an optimal cutoff value of 17 HU (area under curve=0.982, p<0.0001, Sensitivity=100%, Specificity=89%). ICC with regard to interobserver agreement in measuring the mean HU of the benign lesions was 0.84 (95% confidence interval 0.64-0.93) and for the malignant lesions was 0.88 (95% confidence interval 0.77-0.94). A CT attenuation threshold value of less than 17 HU suggests benign etiology of focal (18) FDG avid breast lesions in postoperative breast cancer patients. If confirmed by additional studies, these findings may provide additional information to guide the treating physician regarding decisions for supplementary imaging or the need to biopsy. 
Predicting arterial injuries after penetrating brain trauma based on scoring signs from emergency CT studies.	The objective of this study was to determine the accuracy of individual radiologists in detection of vascular injury in patients after penetrating brain injury (PBI) based on head CT findings at admission. We retrospectively evaluated 54 PBI patients who underwent admission head CT and digital subtraction angiography (DSA), used here as a reference standard. Two readers reviewed the CT images to determine the presence or absence of the 29 CT variables of injury profile and quantified selected variables. Four experienced trauma radiologists and one neuroradiologist assigned their own specific scores for each CT variable, a high score indicative of a high probability of artery injury. A sixth set consisted of the average score obtained from the five sets, generated by five experts. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were constructed for each set to assess the diagnostic performance of an individual radiologist in predicting an underlying vascular injury. The area under ROC curve (AUC) was higher for CT scores obtained from the sixth set (average of five sets of scores) of variable rank score 0.75 (95% CI 0.62-0.88) and for the rest of the data sets, the value ranged from 0.70 (95% CI 0.56-0.84) to 0.74 (95% CI 0.6-0.88). In conclusion, radiologists may be able to recommend DSA with a fair accuracy rate in selected patients, deemed 'high-risk' for developing intracranial vascular injuries after PBI based on admission CT studies. A better approach needs to be developed to reduce the false positive rate to avoid unnecessary emergency DSA. 
Diagnostic values of neopterin and S100b for central nervous system infections in children]	To study the diagnostic values of cerebrospinal concentrations of neopterin (NPT) and S100b for central nervous system infections in children.
Platelet/lymphocyte ratio and risk of in-hospital mortality in patients with ST-elevated myocardial infarction.	Platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR) is a new prognostic marker in coronary artery disease. We aimed to evaluate the relationship between PLR and in-hospital mortality in patients with ST-elevated acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
Profiling of volatile organic compounds in exhaled breath as a strategy to find early predictive signatures of asthma in children.	Wheezing is one of the most common respiratory symptoms in preschool children under six years old. Currently, no tests are available that predict at early stage who will develop asthma and who will be a transient wheezer. Diagnostic tests of asthma are reliable in adults but the same tests are difficult to use in children, because they are invasive and require active cooperation of the patient. A non-invasive alternative is needed for children. Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) excreted in breath could yield such non-invasive and patient-friendly diagnostic. The aim of this study was to identify VOCs in the breath of preschool children (inclusion at age 2-4 years) that indicate preclinical asthma. For that purpose we analyzed the total array of exhaled VOCs with Gas Chromatography time of flight Mass Spectrometry of 252 children between 2 and 6 years of age. Breath samples were collected at multiple time points of each child. Each breath-o-gram contained between 300 and 500 VOCs; in total 3256 different compounds were identified across all samples. Using two multivariate methods, Random Forests and dissimilarity Partial Least Squares Discriminant Analysis, we were able to select a set of 17 VOCs which discriminated preschool asthmatic children from transient wheezing children. The correct prediction rate was equal to 80% in an independent test set. These VOCs are related to oxidative stress caused by inflammation in the lungs and consequently lipid peroxidation. In conclusion, we showed that VOCs in the exhaled breath predict the subsequent development of asthma which might guide early treatment. 
Digital thermography of the fingers and toes in Raynaud's phenomenon.	The aim of this study was to determine whether skin temperature measurement by digital thermography on hands and feet is useful for diagnosis of Raynaud's phenomenon (RP). Fifty-seven patients with RP (primary RP, n = 33; secondary RP, n = 24) and 146 healthy volunteers were recruited. After acclimation to room temperature for 30 min, thermal imaging of palmar aspect of hands and dorsal aspect of feet were taken. Temperature differences between palm (center) and the coolest finger and temperature differences between foot dorsum (center) and first toe significantly differed between patients and controls. The area under curve analysis showed that temperature difference of the coolest finger (cutoff value: 2.2) differentiated RP patients from controls (sensitivity/specificity: 67/60%, respectively). Temperature differences of first toe (cutoff value: 3.11) also discriminated RP patients (sensitivity/specificity: about 73/66%, respectively). A combination of thermographic assessment of the coolest finger and first toe was highly effective in men (sensitivity/specificity : about 88/60%, respectively) while thermographic assessment of first toe was solely sufficient for women (sensitivity/specificity: about 74/68%, respectively). Thermographic assessment of the coolest finger and first toe is useful for diagnosing RP. In women, thermography of first toe is highly recommended. 
White blood cell, hemoglobin and platelet distribution width as short-term prognostic markers in patients with acute myocardial infarction.	The aim of this study was to assess the prognostic value of combined use of white blood cell (WBC), hemoglobin (Hb), and platelet distribution width (PDW) in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). This study included 1,332 consecutive patients with AMI. Patients were categorized into complete blood cell (CBC) group 0 (n=346, 26.0%), 1 (n=622, 46.7%), 2 (n=324, 24.3%), and 3 (n=40, 3.0%) according to the sum of the value defined by the cut-off levels of WBC (1,  14.5  10(3)/L; 0, <14.5  10(3)/L), Hb (1, <12.7 g/dL; 0,  12.7 g/dL), and PDW (1,  51.2%; 0: <51.2%). In-hospital death occurred in 59 (4.4%) patients. Patients who died during index hospitalization had higher WBC and PDW and lower Hb. The patients could be stratified for in-hospital mortality according to CBC group; 1.2%, 2.7%, 9.0%, and 22.5% in CBC groups 0, 1, 2, and 3 (P<0.001), respectively. In multivariate logistic regression analysis, CBC group  2 (odds ratio, 3.604; 95% confidence interval, 1.040-14.484, P=0.043) was an independent predictor for in-hospital death. The prognostic impact of the combined use of CBC markers remained significant over 12 months. In conclusions, combination of WBC, Hb, and PDW, a cheap and simple hematologic marker, is useful in early risk stratification of patients with AMI.
Prevalence and clinicopathologic characteristics of the molecular subtypes in malignant glioma: a multi-institutional analysis of 941 cases.	Glioblastoma can be classified into four distinct molecular subtypes (Proneural, Neural, Classical and Mesenchymal), based on gene expression profiling. This study aimed to investigate the prevalence, clinicopathologic features and overall survival (OS) of the four molecular subtypes among all malignant gliomas.
Validating a scoring system for the diagnosis of smear-negative pulmonary tuberculosis in HIV-infected adults.	The challenge of diagnosing smear-negative pulmonary TB (tuberculosis) in people living with HIV justifies the use of instruments other than the smear test for diagnosing the disease. Considering the clinical-radiological similarities of TB amongst HIV-infected adults and children, the proposal of this study was to assess the accuracy of a scoring system used to diagnose smear-negative pulmonary TB in children and adolescents, in HIV-infected adults suspected of having smear-negative pulmonary TB.
Development of a multiplex autoantibody test for detection of lung cancer.	Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths for both men and women. Early diagnosis of lung cancer has a 5-year survival rate of 48.8%, however, nearly 35% of stage I patients relapses after surgical resection, thus portending a poor prognosis. Therefore, detecting lung cancer in early stage and further identifying the high-risk patients would allow the opportunity to provide adjuvant therapy and possibly increase survival. There is considerable evidence that the immune system produces an autoantibody response to neoplastic cells. The detection of such autoantibodies has been shown to have diagnostic and prognostic value. Here we took advantage of the high-throughput Luminex technique to multiplex a total of 14 tumor-associated autoantigens to detect the autoantibody from the patients sera. The 14 antigens were expressed by in vitro transcription/translation system with HaloTag at N-terminus. The fusion proteins were then covalently immobilized onto the Luminex microspheres conjugated by the halo-link ligand, thus eliminating the protein purification procedure. Sera samples from cancer patients and healthy controls were interacted with the microsphere-antigen complex to measure the autoantibodies. We have developed a quick multiplex detection system for measuring autoantibody signature from patient sera with minimal cross-reaction. A panel of seven autoantibody biomarkers has generated an AUC>80% in distinguishing the lung cancers from healthy controls. This study is the first report by combining Luminex platform and HaloTag technology to detect humoral immune response in cancer patients. Due to the flexibility of the Luminex technology, this approach can be applied to others conditions such as infectious, neurological, and metabolic diseases. One can envision that this multiplex Luminex system as well as the panel of seven biomarkers could be used to screen the high-risk population with subsequent CT test based on the blood test result. 
Label-free blood plasma test based on surface-enhanced Raman scattering for tumor stages detection in nasopharyngeal cancer.	This study aims to evaluate the feasibility of a label-free nanobiosensor based on blood plasma surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) method for exploring variability of different tumor (T) stages in nasopharyngeal cancer (NPC). Au nanoparticles as the SERS-active nanostructures were directly mixed with human blood plasma to enhance the Raman scattering signals. High quality SERS spectra can be acquired from blood plasma samples belong to 60 healthy volunteers, 25 NPC patients with T1 stage and 75 NPC patients with T2-T4 stage. A diagnostic accuracy of 83.5% and 93.3%, respectively, can be achieved for classification between early T (T1) stage cancer and normal; and advanced T (T2-T4) stage cancer and normal blood groups. This exploratory study demonstrates that the nanobiosensor based on SERS technique in conjunction with PCA-LDA has great potential as a clinical complement for different T stages detection in nasopharyngeal cancer. 
The Refit model for end-stage liver disease-Na is not a better predictor of mortality than the Refit model for end-stage liver disease in patients with cirrhosis and ascites.	The modification of the Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) scoring system (Refit MELD) and the modification of MELD-Na (Refit MELDNa), which optimized the MELD coefficients, were published in 2011. We aimed to validate the superiority of the Refit MELDNa over the Refit MELD for the prediction of 3-month mortality in Korean patients with cirrhosis and ascites.
Dysregulated microRNA expression in serum of non-vaccinated children with varicella.	Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) may play an important role in pathogen-host interactions and can serve as molecular markers for the detection of infectious diseases. To date, the relationship between circulating miRNAs and varicella-zoster virus (VZV) caused varicella has not been reported. Using TaqMan Low-Density Array (TLDA) analysis, expression levels of miRNAs in serum samples from 29 patients with varicella and 60 patients with Bordetella pertussis (BP), measles virus (MEV) and enterovirus (EV) were analyzed. The array results showed that 247 miRNAs were differentially expressed in sera of the varicella patients compared with healthy controls (215 up-regulated and 32 down-regulated). Through the following qRT-PCR confirmation and receiver operational characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, five miRNAs (miR-197, miR-629, miR-363, miR-132 and miR-122) were shown to distinguish varicella patients from healthy controls and other microbial infections with moderate sensitivity and specificity. A number of significantly enriched pathways regulated by these circulating miRNAs were predicted, and some of them were involved in inflammatory response, nervous system and respiratory system development. Our results, for the first time, revealed that a number of miRNAs were differentially expressed during VZV infection, and these five serum miRNAs have great potential to serve as biomarkers for the diagnosis of VZV infection in varicella patients. 
Classification of normal and diseased liver shapes based on Spherical Harmonics coefficients.	Liver-shape analysis and quantification is still an open research subject. Quantitative assessment of the liver is of clinical importance in various procedures such as diagnosis, treatment planning, and monitoring. Liver-shape classification is of clinical importance for corresponding intra-subject and inter-subject studies. In this research, we propose a novel technique for the liver-shape classification based on Spherical Harmonics (SH) coefficients. The proposed liver-shape classification algorithm consists of the following steps: (a) Preprocessing, including mesh generation and simplification, point-set matching, and surface to template alignment; (b) Liver-shape parameterization, including surface normalization, SH expansion followed by parameter space registration; (c) Feature selection and classification, including frequency based feature selection, feature space reduction by Principal Component Analysis (PCA), and classification. The above multi-step approach is novel in the sense that registration and feature selection for liver-shape classification is proposed and implemented and validated for the normal and diseases liver in the SH domain. Various groups of SH features after applying conventional PCA and/or ordered by p-value PCA are employed in two classifiers including Support Vector Machine (SVM) and k-Nearest Neighbor (k-NN) in the presence of 101 liver data sets. Results show that the proposed specific features combined with classifiers outperform existing liver-shape classification techniques that employ liver surface information in the spatial domain. In the available data sets, the proposed method can successful classify normal and diseased livers with a correct classification rate of above 90 %. The performed result in average is higher than conventional liver-shape classification method. Several standard metrics such as Leave-one-out cross-validation and Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis are employed in the experiments and confirm the effectiveness of the proposed liver-shape classification with respect to conventional techniques. 
Risk factors for appendiceal metastasis with epithelial ovarian cancer.	To investigate the risk factors for appendiceal metastasis of epithelial ovarian cancer and compare findings with the previous studies.
Validity and reliability of the Japanese version of the Newest Vital Sign: a preliminary study.	Health literacy (HL) refers to the ability to obtain, process, and understand basic health information and services, and is thus needed to make appropriate health decisions. The Newest Vital Sign (NVS) is comprised of 6 questions about an ice cream nutrition label and assesses HL numeracy skills. We developed a Japanese version of the NVS (NVS-J) and evaluated the validity and reliability of the NVS-J in patients with chronic pain. The translation of the original NVS into Japanese was achieved as per the published guidelines. An observational study was subsequently performed to evaluate the validity and reliability of the NVS-J in 43 Japanese patients suffering from chronic pain. Factor analysis with promax rotation, using the Kaiser criterion (eigenvalues 1.0), and a scree plot revealed that the main component of the NVS-J consists of three determinative factors, and each factor consists of two NVS-J items. The criterion-related validity of the total NVS-J score was significantly correlated with the total score of Ishikawa et al.'s self-rated HL Questionnaire, the clinical global assessment of comprehensive HL level, cognitive function, and the Brinkman index. In addition, Cronbach's coefficient for the total score of the NVS-J was adequate (alpha=0.72). This study demonstrated that the NVS-J has good validity and reliability. Further, the NVS-J consists of three determinative factors: "basic numeracy ability," "complex numeracy ability," and "serious-minded ability." These three HL abilities comprise a 3-step hierarchical structure. Adequate HL should be promoted in chronic pain patients to enable coping, improve functioning, and increase activities of daily living (ADLs) and quality of life (QOL). 
A novel role of the tumor size in pancreatic cancer as an ancillary factor for predicting resectability.	Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PCA) is a devastating disease. Only surgery can provide effective treatment. The resectability of pancreatic cancer is mainly determined by image studies. However, half of the patients deemed as operable, radiologically, are found to be inoperable during surgery. Previously, we have showed that both CA 19-9 and tumor size could predict PCA resectability, independently. Here, we aimed to determine the cut-off value for tumor size permitting PCA resectability by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.
Cancer and involuntary weight loss: failure to validate a prediction score.	Many patients who have involuntary weight loss have cancer. The Hernandez prediction rule includes 5 variables (elevated levels of alkaline phosphatase and lactate dehydrogenase, low albumin, high white blood cell count, and age >80 years). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the validity of the prediction rule.
A systematic comparison of supervised classifiers.	Pattern recognition has been employed in a myriad of industrial, commercial and academic applications. Many techniques have been devised to tackle such a diversity of applications. Despite the long tradition of pattern recognition research, there is no technique that yields the best classification in all scenarios. Therefore, as many techniques as possible should be considered in high accuracy applications. Typical related works either focus on the performance of a given algorithm or compare various classification methods. In many occasions, however, researchers who are not experts in the field of machine learning have to deal with practical classification tasks without an in-depth knowledge about the underlying parameters. Actually, the adequate choice of classifiers and parameters in such practical circumstances constitutes a long-standing problem and is one of the subjects of the current paper. We carried out a performance study of nine well-known classifiers implemented in the Weka framework and compared the influence of the parameter configurations on the accuracy. The default configuration of parameters in Weka was found to provide near optimal performance for most cases, not including methods such as the support vector machine (SVM). In addition, the k-nearest neighbor method frequently allowed the best accuracy. In certain conditions, it was possible to improve the quality of SVM by more than 20% with respect to their default parameter configuration. 
A new approach for clustered MCs classification with sparse features learning and TWSVM.	In digital mammograms, an early sign of breast cancer is the existence of microcalcification clusters (MCs), which is very important to the early breast cancer detection. In this paper, a new approach is proposed to classify and detect MCs. We formulate this classification problem as sparse feature learning based classification on behalf of the test samples with a set of training samples, which are also known as a "vocabulary" of visual parts. A visual information-rich vocabulary of training samples is manually built up from a set of samples, which include MCs parts and no-MCs parts. With the prior ground truth of MCs in mammograms, the sparse feature learning is acquired by the l(P)-regularized least square approach with the interior-point method. Then we designed the sparse feature learning based MCs classification algorithm using twin support vector machines (TWSVMs). To investigate its performance, the proposed method is applied to DDSM datasets and compared with support vector machines (SVMs) with the same dataset. Experiments have shown that performance of the proposed method is more efficient or better than the state-of-art methods.
Utilization of bioreactance technique as indicator for preload responsiveness during living donor liver donation.	Fluid restriction has been used to decrease central venous pressure as a strategy of fluid management during living donor liver donation (LDLD). However, potential risks such as hemodynamic instability are also involved during the procedure. Monitoring of preload or preload responsiveness is therefore crucial during LDLD. The aim of this study was to explore the efficiency of an innovative bioreactance method that introduced the noninvasive cardiac output monitor (NICOM, Cheetah Medical, Vancouver, Wash, United States), as surrogate indicator for preload responsiveness during LDLD.
Corrected flow time is a good indicator for preload responsiveness during living donor liver donation.	Corrected flow time (FTc) has been utilized as preload indicator in recent literature. Accurate estimation of preload status during living donor liver donation (LDLD) is important due to fluid restriction. We evaluate the effectiveness of FTc as a surrogate of preload indicator during LDLD.
Evaluation of plasma chemerin levels in patients with non-dipper blood pressure patterns.	Chemerin is a novel adipokine that plays a role in inflammation and atherosclerosis. Although there are several correlations between hypertension and the inflammatory system, there is still insufficient information about the relationship between blood pressure variability and inflammatory markers. In this study, we aimed to determine whether chemerin levels are elevated in non-dipper patients compared with dippers and healthy controls.
Side branch complication after a single-stent crossover technique: prediction with frequency domain optical coherence tomography.	To identify preprocedural predictors of side branch (SB) complications after coronary bifurcation stent implantation using frequency domain optical coherence tomography (FD-OCT).
Fibrinogen plasma concentration is an independent marker of haemodynamic impairment in chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension.	Fibrinogen has a crucial role in both inflammation and coagulation, two processes pivotal for the pathogenesis of pulmonary hypertension. We therefore aimed to investigate whether fibrinogen plasma concentrations a) are elevated in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) and b) may serve as a novel biomarker for haemodynamic impairment. In a dual-centre, retrospective analysis including 112 patients with PAH (n = 52), CTEPH (n = 49) and a control cohort of patients with suspected PAH ruled out by right heart catheterisation (n = 11), we found fibrinogen plasma concentrations to be increased in patients with PAH (4.1  1.4g/l) and CTEPH (4.3  1.2g/l) compared to control patients (3.4  0.5g/l, p = 0.0035 and p = 0.0004, respectively). In CTEPH patients but not in PAH patients fibrinogen was associated with haemodynamics (p < 0.036) and functional parameters (p < 0.041). Furthermore, fibrinogen was linked to disease severity (WHO functional class, p = 0.017) and independently predicted haemodynamic impairment specifically in CTEPH (p < 0.016). Therefore, fibrinogen seems to represent an important factor in CTEPH pathophysiology and may have the potential to guide clinical diagnosis and therapy. 
Tissue immunostaining for factor XIIIa in dermal dendrocytes of pityriasis alba skin lesions.	Pityriasis alba affects 1% of the world population and about 9.9% of the children in Brazil. However, its etiology remains uncertain.
Performance of the Pediatric Index of Mortality 2 in a pediatric intensive care unit]	To assess the discrimination and calibration of the Pediatric Index of Mortality 2 in patients admitted to a pediatric intensive care unit.
Computer-aided detection of prostate cancer in MRI.	Prostate cancer is one of the major causes of cancer death for men in the western world. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is being increasingly used as a modality to detect prostate cancer. Therefore, computer-aided detection of prostate cancer in MRI images has become an active area of research. In this paper we investigate a fully automated computer-aided detection system which consists of two stages. In the first stage, we detect initial candidates using multi-atlas-based prostate segmentation, voxel feature extraction, classification and local maxima detection. The second stage segments the candidate regions and using classification we obtain cancer likelihoods for each candidate. Features represent pharmacokinetic behavior, symmetry and appearance, among others. The system is evaluated on a large consecutive cohort of 347 patients with MR-guided biopsy as the reference standard. This set contained 165 patients with cancer and 182 patients without prostate cancer. Performance evaluation is based on lesion-based free-response receiver operating characteristic curve and patient-based receiver operating characteristic analysis. The system is also compared to the prospective clinical performance of radiologists. Results show a sensitivity of 0.42, 0.75, and 0.89 at 0.1, 1, and 10 false positives per normal case. In clinical workflow the system could potentially be used to improve the sensitivity of the radiologist. At the high specificity reading setting, which is typical in screening situations, the system does not perform significantly different from the radiologist and could be used as an independent second reader instead of a second radiologist. Furthermore, the system has potential in a first-reader setting.
Simultaneous sparsity model for histopathological image representation and classification.	The multi-channel nature of digital histopathological images presents an opportunity to exploit the correlated color channel information for better image modeling. Inspired by recent work in sparsity for single channel image classification, we propose a new simultaneous sparsity model for multi-channel histopathological image representation and classification (SHIRC). Essentially, we represent a histopathological image as a sparse linear combination of training examples under suitable channel-wise constraints. Classification is performed by solving a newly formulated simultaneous sparsity-based optimization problem. A practical challenge is the correspondence of image objects (cellular and nuclear structures) at different spatial locations in the image. We propose a robust locally adaptive variant of SHIRC (LA-SHIRC) to tackle this issue. Experiments on two challenging real-world image data sets: 1) mammalian tissue images acquired by pathologists of the animal diagnostics lab (ADL) at Pennsylvania State University, and 2) human intraductal breast lesions, reveal the merits of our proposal over state-of-the-art alternatives. Further, we demonstrate that LA-SHIRC exhibits a more graceful decay in classification accuracy against the number of training images which is highly desirable in practice where generous training per class is often not available.
Value of blood-pool subtraction in cardiac indium-111-labeled platelet imaging.	Blood-pool subtraction has been proposed to enhance 111In-labeled platelet imaging of intracardiac thrombi. We tested the accuracy of labeled platelet imaging, with and without blood-pool subtraction, in ten subjects with cardiac thrombi of varying age, eight with endocarditis being treated with antimicrobial therapy and ten normal controls. Imaging was performed early after labeled platelet injection (24 hr or less) and late (48 hr or more). Blood-pool subtraction was carried out. All images were graded subjectively by four experienced, "blinded" readers. Detection accuracy was measured by the sensitivity at three fixed levels of specificity estimated from receiver operator characteristic curve analysis and tested by three-way analysis of variance. Detection accuracy was generally improved on delayed images. Blood-pool subtraction did not improve accuracy. Although blood-pool subtraction increased detection sensitivity, this was offset by decreased specificity. For this population studied, blood-pool subtraction did not improve subjective detection of abnormal platelet deposition by 111In platelet imaging.
Performance evaluation of medical expert systems using ROC curves.	This paper presents a performance evaluation of the diagnostic accuracy of the medical expert system CADIAG-2/PANCREAS. The study included 47 clinical cases from a university hospital with 51 diagnosis of pancreatic diseases (four patients had two pancreatic diseases). As gold standard, the histologically or clinically confirmed diagnoses were assumed. Performance was studied along three lines: (a) each case was evaluated twice, first, by restricting patient data to history, physical examination, and basic laboratory tests and, second, by utilizing the complete set of data including also special laboratory tests. US. X ray, CT-scan, ECG, and biopsy, if available: (b) considering CADIAG-2's hypotheses generation, each evaluation series was also carried out twice, first, by testing whether the gold standard was the first diagnosis in the ranked list of hypothesis and, second, whether the gold standard was among the hypotheses: (c) receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were determined by varying an internal threshold which determined the extent of CADIAG-2's diagnostic hypotheses generation. The evaluation showed that CADIAG-2's initial list of diagnostic hypotheses, based on patient history, physical examination, and basic laboratory tests usually has already included the gold standard diagnosis and thus an application of CADIAG-2 at a very early stage of the diagnostic process seems achievable. Moreover, it turned out that given the complete set of patient's medical data the gold standard is usually ranked at the first place in the list of hypotheses. except for patients with chronic diseases where only unspecific findings are available. The last test series showed that ROC curves do not only allow optimal adjustment of the expert system's internal ad hoc decision criteria such as thresholds, weights, and scores but also provide a basis for better comparing the performance of different medical expert systems.
Maximum likelihood analysis of free-response receiver operating characteristic (FROC) data.	Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) methodology is widely used in evaluating medical imaging modalities. While appropriate in some cases, it has several drawbacks when the detection task, e.g., nodule detection, involves localizing the abnormality. Free-response receiver operating characteristic (FROC) methodology offers a more natural framework to describe observer performance in such studies and has other advantages. Due to the lack of a statistical analysis procedure comparable to the maximum likelihood procedure (ROCFIT program) available for ROC studies, the FROC method has not gained widespread acceptance. This work presents and solves a two parameter model for the statistical analysis of FROC data. The model assumes that the probability density of the signal stimuli is normally distributed, as is the probability density for producing one or more false positives per image. A program (FROCFIT) is described for estimating the parameters and their uncertainties from experimental data. An index of performance is proposed to quantify observer performance in FROC experiments. Application of this methodology to several FROC data sets produced good to excellent fits.
Detection of hepatotoxicity associated with methotrexate therapy for psoriasis.	To determine whether liver function tests and clinical and demographic information would predict methotrexate-associated hepatotoxicity, we identified 78 patients who had undergone 147 liver biopsies associated with methotrexate therapy for psoriasis. The joint sensitivity of aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin values in detecting abnormal results from a biopsy specimen obtained after treatment was .86; the predictive value of negative test results was .93. A logistic regression model significantly predicted the presence of abnormal (grade III or higher) liver biopsy specimen results. The concordance index was .92 (perfect, 1.0). Regression coefficients may be used along with information from a specific patient to calculate the predicted probability of an abnormal result from a liver biopsy specimen after treatment. We conclude that this multivariate risk estimation model significantly predicts the likelihood of positive findings from liver biopsy specimens in this patient population. The clinical use of this model awaits further validation.
Validity of the GHQ-28 in New Zealand women.	The GHQ-28 was validated against the short PSE in a New Zealand community study of female psychiatric morbidity. The GHQ-28 total scores were significantly correlated with the PSE scores. Higher coefficients were obtained using the scoring method of Goodchild and Duncan-Jones than with the standard scoring method. In this data set, the 3/4 cutoff had the best sensitivity and specificity. The correlations of the GHQ-28 subscales with ICD diagnostic classes and ad hoc PSE sub-scores were also statistically significant. Because the distribution of the GHQ-28 scores is positively skewed, non-parametric statistics may be preferable to the traditional Pearson's correlation coefficient. Overall, the results from this study confirm the GHQ-28 to be a valid and practical screen for presence or absence of psychiatric disorder in New Zealand women.
Digital chest radiography with a large image intensifier. Evaluation of diagnostic performance and patient exposure.	A digital system for chest radiography based on a large image intensifier was compared with a conventional film-screen system. The diagnostic performance was evaluated with special reference to the digital monitor images with a modified version of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis--free response ROC (FROC) analysis--on a chest equivalent phantom. Measurements of spatial resolution and energy imparted were also performed. The detectability of low-contrast objects as well as spatial resolution was better for the full-size film-screen radiographs than for both the digital monitor images and the 100 mm photofluorograms. The image-intensifier system has a potential for considerable dose savings in relation to the conventional technique provided that fluoroscopy is excluded in the positioning of the patients.
Discriminability, loudness, and masking in the rat (Rattus norvegicus): a confirmation and extension.	In Experiment 1, rats discriminated between two sound pressure levels (SPL) of a pure tone: standard (STD) SPLs of 84 and 74 dB and comparison (CO) SPLs 4, 14, and 24 dB below STD were tested in quiet and 60 dB noise at 4 and 12.5 kHz (24 conditions). The decibel difference between STD and CO accounted for only 43.52% of the variance in the signal detection measure of sensitivity, d', across conditions, whereas the loudness difference (LD = STD0.35 - CO0.35) accounted for 89.82% of the variance in d'. These results confirm and extend previous observations that: (a) equal decibel differences are not equally discriminable; (b) loudness for the rat increases as a power function of SPL with an exponent of 0.35: and (c) masked loudness is a linear function of loudness in quiet. In Experiment 2, the assumptions of normal distribution and equal variance implicit in the use of the d' measure were examined. Receiver operating characteristic curves that were well approximated by straight lines of unit slope in normal-normal coordinates were obtained and thereby validated the use of d' in Experiment 1.
The clinical value of quantitative dynamic scintigraphy in salivary gland disorders.	Salivary gland scintigraphy with [99mTc]pertechnetate was performed in a group of 11 subjects without any known salivary pathology, and in a group of 12 xerostomic patients. Time-activity curves, normalized to background, were generated for each of the four major salivary glands in both groups, and averaged into single curves, representing the function of each gland. Comparing the two sets of curves (patients vs controls) demonstrates that utilizing our "normalization" approach enables one not only to determine whether one group of dynamic curves is significantly different from another, but to decide which of the glands are normal and which are malfunctioning. The sensitivity, specificity, accuracy and predictive values of this procedure are all above 0.90.
Stationary and nonstationary spatial domain Metz filtering.	Stationary and nonstationary finite-impulse-response (FIR) implementations of the count-dependent Metz filter were investigated in this study. Filter size was observed to be an important variable controlling image quality. For Metz filtering of 128 X 128 pixel images at least a 15 X 15 term FIR filter was deemed necessary. By using an algorithm which selected between a set of preformed FIR filters based on pixel count, a nonstationary FIR implementation of the Metz filter was developed which required very little increase in execution time to stationary filtering. In a limited comparison of 'tumor' detection with stationary and nonstationary FIR filtering all of the Metz filtering techniques showed a significant improvement in detection when compared to the unprocessed images. However, no significant difference was observed between the stationary and nonstationary Metz filtering techniques. Thus, for Metz filters optimized solely on the basis of count, nonstationary FIR filtering does not seem to offer an advantage when compared to stationary filtering.
Impact of clinical history on fracture detection with radiography.	The effect of knowledge of localizing symptoms and signs in the detection of fractures was studied. Forty radiographs of the extremities were examined twice by seven radiologists; the sessions were separated by 4 months. In 26 cases, a subtle fracture was present; 14 cases were normal. In half of the cases at each session, the precise location of pain, tenderness, or swelling was provided. The observer was asked to determine if the case was normal or abnormal (provide the exact location of the fracture) and to indicate the degree of confidence in the diagnosis. Responses were converted to a numeric scale for analysis. Analysis of receiver operator characteristic parameters indicates that clues regarding location of trauma facilitate detection of fractures. The improvement is based largely on an increased true-positive rate without an increased false-positive rate, regardless of the decision criteria of the radiologist (overall willingness to "overread" or "underread"). This has direct clinical applicability and reinforces the plea of radiologists for precise clinical information.
Neopterin. A tumor marker in colorectal carcinoma?	Neopterin is compared with other tumor markers in colorectal carcinoma. Its sensitivity is clearly lower than that of CEA, TPA and CA 19/9 and is even lower than the sensitivity of the erythrocyte sedimentation rate. The ability of neopterin to discriminate between different tumor stages is also lower than that of the other markers. The discriminant analysis shows that measurement of neopterin in the serum of patients with colorectal carcinoma gives no essential additional information.
Gallium-67 lung index computerization in interstitial pneumonitis.	To improve ease of use, precision, and reduce interobserver variability of the 67Ga lung index, we developed and tested a computer method that yields similar numeric values and uses previous indexing principles, except that the computer matrix unit is the fractional area assessed. Patients were referred for suspected interstitial lung disease. Fifty-three image studies were available for both manual and computer indexing. Linear regression analysis gave a correlation of 0.884. Decision matrix analysis of 58 different nonimmunosuppressed patients resulted in 93% sensitivity and 76% specificity. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed that the ideal index cutoff was 50. Because there is tighter control over 67Ga uptake intensity and spatial distribution assessment, the computerized 67Ga index appears to perform better than the manual analysis.
The value of HbA1 and fructosamine in predicting impaired glucose tolerance--an alternative to OGTT to detect diabetes mellitus or gestational diabetes.	Glycosylated haemoglobin and glycosylated serum protein concentrations (fructosamine) have been monitored in patients suspected of diabetes mellitus (n = 183), in pregnant women suspected of gestational diabetes (n = 250) and in control groups (n = 184). The response to the standard 75 g oral glucose tolerance test was used to confirm or reject the diagnosis, using different criteria for detection of diabetes mellitus compared to detection of gestational diabetes. A slightly higher sensitivity was observed for fructosamine compared to glycosylated haemoglobin to detect impaired glucose tolerance (52 vs 44%) or gestational diabetes (17% vs 8%). For detection of diabetic oral glucose tolerance no difference was observed between glycosylated haemoglobin and fructosamine; sensitivity for both parameters was 67%. The results suggest that fructosamine is slightly more sensitive in detecting borderline-abnormal glucose tolerance, whereas no differences are observed for detection of clearly abnormal oral glucose tolerance tests.
Evaluation of computerized tomograms using a black and white and a color monitor: an ROC (receiver operation characteristic) comparison]	Different views about the value of a colour monitor for the evaluation of computer tomograms have prompted us to carry out this ROC (Receiver Operation Characteristic) examination. The latter was based on patient computer tomograms in which lesions of the liver were simulated by image manipulation. 5 radiologists analysed the image material (a) on a black-and-white monitor, (b) on a colour monitor, and (c) simultaneously on a black-and-white and a colour monitor. The study shows that the use of a colour monitor gives no essentially different result than evaluation with a black-and-white monitor. The slightly better result of 2% more true positive findings with simultaneous representation of black-and-white and colour image relative to the sole use of black-and-white display is within error limits. The colour representation gives no advantage for the evaluation of usual computer tomograms because the window technique enables a contrast representation in black-and-white too.
Multiple classification and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis.	The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was applied to observer performances in a multiple-alternative decision task. It was shown that the probability of correct classification, a performance criterion often maximized in multiple-classification procedures, corresponds to the area under an appropriately constructed ROC curve. Degrees of confidence in the observer's judgment of 0, 1, ..., 10 were used for both classification and ROC rating. To demonstrate the validity of the method, 1,190 photofluorograms were examined by experienced staff radiologists to identify four cardiovascular conditions distinguishable on the basis of images of structural elements of the contours of the heart and great vessels. The classification matrices for three radiologists who achieved high, medium, and low performance ratings in this experiment are reported. The ROC curves are symmetric, with their points located around the off-diagonal. Differences between the overall probability of correct classification and the ROC curve index calculated from the same evaluator's data were very small, 0.004 to 0.011.
ROC steady: a receiver operating characteristic curve that is invariant relative to selection bias.	This paper describes a simple method for constructing receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves based on boundary conditions that restrict its theoretical shape. The resultant curve is identical to that for logistic distributions with equal variance. Although the underlying assumptions are highly restrictive, this method nevertheless possesses several attractive properties which are illustrated by its application to 2,567 patients undergoing a variety of noninvasive diagnostic tests for coronary artery disease: 1) the area under the curve is defined by a single parameter; 2) the associated standard deviation is analytically defined and readily computed; 3) the curve is completely invariant with respect to selection bias.
Anterior cruciate ligament tear: prospective evaluation of diagnostic accuracy of middle- and high-field-strength MR imaging at 1.5 and 0.5 T.	To compare the diagnostic efficacy of current-generation middle- and high-field-strength magnetic resonance (MR) imagers in the diagnosis of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears.
Estimates of volumetric bone density from projectional measurements improve the discriminatory capability of dual X-ray absorptiometry.	To determine whether estimates of volumetric bone density from projectional scans of the lumbar spine have weaker associations with height and weight and stronger associations with prevalent vertebral fractures than standard projectional bone mineral density (BMD) and bone mineral content (BMC), we obtained posteroanterior (PA) dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), lateral supine DXA (Hologic QDR 2000), and quantitative computed tomography (QCT, GE 9800 scanner) in 260 postmenopausal women enrolled in two trials of treatment for osteoporosis. In 223 women, all vertebral levels, i.e., L2-L4 in the DXA scan and L1-L3 in the QCT scan, could be evaluated. Fifty-five women were diagnosed as having at least one mild fracture (age 67.9 +/- 6.5 years) and 168 women did not have any fractures (age 62.3 +/- 6.9 years). We derived three estimates of "volumetric bone density" from PA DXA (BMAD, BMAD*, and BMD*) and three from paired PA and lateral DXA (WA BMD, WA BMDHol, and eVBMD). While PA BMC and PA BMD were significantly correlated with height (r = 0.49 and r = 0.28) or weight (r = 0.38 and r = 0.37), QCT and the volumetric bone density estimates from paired PA and lateral scans were not (r = -0.083 to r = 0.050). BMAD, BMAD*, and BMD* correlated with weight but not height. The associations with vertebral fracture were stronger for QCT (odds ratio [QR] = 3.17; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.90-5.27), eVBMD (OR = 2.87; CI 1.80-4.57), WA BMDHol (OR = 2.86; CI 1.80-4.55) and WA-BMD (OR = 2.77; CI 1.75-4.39) than for BMAD*/BMD* (OR = 2.03; CI 1.32-3.12), BMAD (OR = 1.68; CI 1.14-2.48), lateral BMD (OR = 1.88; CI 1.28-2.77), standard PA BMD (OR = 1.47; CI 1.02-2.13) or PA BMC (OR = 1.22; CI 0.86-1.74). The areas under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves for QCT and all estimates of volumetric BMD were significantly higher compared with standard PA BMD and PA BMC. We conclude that, like QCT, estimates of volumetric bone density from paired PA and lateral scans are unaffected by height and weight and are more strongly associated with vertebral fracture than standard PA BMD or BMC, or estimates of volumetric density that are solely based on PA DXA scans.
An imaging algorithm for the differential diagnosis of adrenal adenomas and metastases.	The purpose of this study was to develop an algorithm using CT and chemical-shift MR imaging for the characterization of adrenal masses in patients with a primary cancer and no other evidence of metastatic disease.
Enhanced hepatic uptake of thallium-201 in patients with severe narrowing of the right coronary artery.	To assess the hepatic uptake of thallium-201 after exercise treadmill testing and to investigate whether hepatic uptake of thallium-201 may be a useful marker of right coronary artery (RCA) disease, 43 patients were studied: 17 with RCA disease (9 with 1-vessel disease, 8 with multivessel disease including the RCA), 8 with left coronary system disease alone, and 18 with a low probability (< 5%) of coronary disease. All subjects were studied with symptom-limited exercise and redistribution thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomographic (SPECT) scintigraphy. Two indexes of hepatic uptake were derived: a liver-to-heart ratio after stress, and a stress-to-rest hepatic ratio. The low-probability group had a liver/heart ratio of 0.48 +/- 0.02. In the group with RCA disease alone, liver/heart ratio was 1.29 +/- 0.20 (p < 0.005 vs low-probability group). Patients with multivessel coronary artery disease involving the RCA had a ratio of 1.19 +/- 0.16 (p < 0.005 vs low-probability group), and patients with only left coronary system disease had a liver/heart ratio of 0.87 +/- 0.15 (p < 0.05 vs low-probability group). The stress/rest ratio of the low-probability group was 0.83 +/- 0.04. Patients with RCA disease alone had a stress/rest ratio of 1.49 +/- 0.25 (p < 0.05 vs low-probability group), and patients with multivessel disease involving the RCA had a stress/rest ratio of 1.16 +/- 0.08 (p < 0.005 vs low-probability group).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Comparison of the diagnostic accuracy of different methods of measurement of heart rate-adjusted ST-segment depression during exercise testing for identification of coronary artery disease.	Within a population of 160 consecutive symptomatic patients who all had undergone catheterization (80 with > or = 1 stenosis > or = 50%), we compared the accuracy of different computerized measurements of the exercise-induced changes in ST-segment: (1) the standard criterion (> or = 0.1 mV flat/downsloping ST depression or > or = 0.15 mV upsloping depression, both 60 ms after the J point); (2) heart rate (HR)-adjusted ST-segment depression (ST/HR index measured at 0, 20, 40, 60, and 80 ms from the J point); (3) the HR-adjusted ST integral (ST/HR integral measured from 0 to 40 ms and from 40 to 80 ms after the J point). None of the ST/HR indexes or integrals were found to have a significantly greater sensitivity than the standard criterion. On the contrary, all ST/HR indexes and integrals showed a higher specificity (0.78 to 0.89) than did the standard criterion (0.65); moreover, the earlier the measurement within the repolarization phase, the better the overall accuracy: 0.71 for the standard criterion, 0.83 (p < 0.001), 0.80 (p < 0.01), 0.78 (p < 0.02), 0.78 (p < 0.02), 0.74 (p = NS) for the ST/HR indexes at 0, 20, 40, 60, and 80 ms, respectively; 0.81 (p < 0.001) and 0.78 (p < 0.02) for the ST/HR integrals calculated from 0 to 40 and from 40 to 80 ms, respectively. Consistently, the receiver-operating characteristic curve areas of ST/HR at 0, 20, and 40 ms were greater than those of ST/HR at both 60 and 80 ms. These findings are divergent from some other results given in published reports. We conclude that the accuracy of all exercise criteria is influenced by the population analyzed: our patients were representative of those currently seen by clinicians.
Detection of squamous neoplasia by fluorescence imaging comparing porfimer sodium fluorescence to tissue autofluorescence in the hamster cheek-pouch model.	Early neoplastic changes in the oral cavity may be difficult to detect. Fluorescence imaging using porphyrin-derived drugs has been used to enhance detection of neoplasia. Autofluorescence has also been used for this purpose. This paper compares autofluorescence to porfimer sodium-induced fluorescence in the detection of neoplasia in the hamster cheek-pouch model.
Is prostate-specific antigen density more useful than prostate-specific antigen levels in the diagnosis of prostate cancer?	To compare the performance of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels with the performance of PSA density (PSAD), the ratio of the serum to the size of the prostate, as predictors of the presence of prostate cancer.
Studies on the relationship between the level of specific IgE antibodies and the clinical expression of allergy: I. Definition of levels distinguishing patients with symptomatic from patients with asymptomatic allergy to common aeroallergens.	The detection of specific IgE antibodies to environmental allergens does not always coincide with a diagnosis of clinically evident allergic disease, because some patients with positive skin and/or in vitro test results have no symptoms related to the allergen or allergens that induced the antibodies.
Composite probability modelling of increasing resolution where diagnostic covariates are unmeasurable for some subjects.	When predictive covariates for a dichotomous outcome dependent variable are undetectable or unmeasurable for some subjects, a fact in itself that may be of considerable prognostic importance, traditionally such subjects' data are dropped from multiple logistic regression analyses. An alternative analytical algorithm is offered here for such situations. First, a series of multiple logistic regressions are applied to the complete data where covariates are initially coded as dichotomous, e.g., detectable or nondetectable. Then, a second series of logistic regressions are fitted for those subjects for whom a covariate is detectable and measurable with the fully resolved measure as the covariate. Ultimately, all individual model-specific predicted probabilities of the outcome for a subject are combined into a single probability through the proposed "Composite Probability Modelling of Increased Resolution" (CPMIR). When such an analysis was applied to discriminate 133 patients with acoustic tumours from a sample of 133 patients with cochlear disease, using a latency measure of the auditory brainstem response evoked potential as the predictive covariate, CPMIR yielded a superior model chi square to any component model, used the full cohort of patients, and produced the largest area under the ROC curve. This algorithm is offered as a general statistical modelling device.
Serum PAPP-A and free beta-hCG are first-trimester screening markers for Down syndrome.	Serum measurements of pregnancy-associated plasma protein A (PAPP-A) and the free beta-human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) subunit were made in 13 women with Down syndrome (DS) pregnancies and six other women with fetal aneuploidy ascertained at chorionic villus sampling (CVS), as well as 89 women with contemporaneous normal control pregnancies. Median serum PAPP-A measurements (0.31 MOM, 95 per cent confidence interval (CI) 0.22-0.65 vs. normal 1.06, 95 per cent CI 0.89-1.20) were lower and free beta-hCG subunit measurements (1.13 MOM, 95 per cent CI 0.93-2.63 vs. normal 0.91, 95 per cent CI 0.79-1.03) were higher at statistically significant levels. Receiver operator characteristics (ROC) curves showed that the highest sensitivity for detection, 71.2 per cent (95 per cent CI 54.7-87.6 per cent), was for depressed PAPP-A levels; the combination of low serum PAPP-A levels, maternal age, and elevated free beta-hCG levels yielded a detection rate of 78.9 per cent (95 per cent CI 64.9-92.8 per cent) of the affected pregnancies at 8-12 weeks' gestation.
CA 549 and SP2 in postoperative breast cancer patients. Comparison with CA 15.3, CEA and TPA.	The levels of CA 549 and SP2 were measured in 430 subjects: 100 healthy blood donors, 130 patients with benign diseases and 200 postoperative breast cancer patients. In the latter group, the serum levels of CA 15.3, CEA and TPA were also measured. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov, Mann Whitney and McNemar tests were used for statistical analysis. The upper normal limits were established on the basis of the values obtained in the healthy blood donors group, the benign diseases group and R.O.C. analysis of the breast cancer group. They were: CA 549 = 13 U/ml, SP2 = 14 U/ml, CA 15.3 = 35 U/ml, CEA = 5 ng/ml and TPA = 110 U/ml. The sensitivity, specificity and accuracy in the breast cancer group were, respectively: CA 549 = 78.1%, 97.1% and 88%; SP2 = 21.9%, 90.4% and 57.5%; CEA = 66.7%, 95.2% and 81.5%; CA 15.3% = 80.2%, 98.1% and 89.5%, and TPA = 73.9%, 78.8% and 76.5%. Statistical analysis showed significant differences only between CA 15.3, the marker which gave the best results, and SP2 (p < 0.001). There was no significant differences with the association of two or three tumor markers.
Toward consensus on quantitative assessment of medical imaging systems.	Consensus has been developing over the past few decades on a number of measurements required for the laboratory assessment of medical imaging modalities. Nevertheless, understanding of the connection between these measurements and human observer performance in a broad range of tasks remains far from complete. Focusing primarily on projection radiography to provide concrete examples, this overview indicates areas in which consensus on methodology for physical image-quality measurement has been established. Concepts such as "noise equivalent quanta" (NEQ) and "detective quantum efficiency" (DQE) have been found useful for normalizing physical measurements on an absolute scale and for relating those measurements to the decision performance of a hypothetical "ideal observer" that effectively performs decision tasks from the image data. The connection between ideal observer performance and human performance, as determined by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, remains to be understood for many clinically relevant tasks.
Carboxylation of osteocalcin in post-menopausal osteoporotic women following vitamin K and D supplementation.	The effect of vitamin supplements on bone metabolism indices in patients with osteoporosis has received scant attention in the literature. Over a 2-week period, vitamin supplements of K and K+D were given to 20 post-menopausal osteoporotic women with previous Colles fractures. Osteoporosis was confirmed by bone mass measurements that demonstrated that broadband ultrasound attenuation (os calcis) was almost as discriminatory as dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (spine and hip) in Colles fracture patients compared with matched controls. Vitamin K corrected the carboxylation defect in osteocalcin and while less marked 4 weeks later, the improvement was still detectable. The result after K+D was similar. The level of carboxylation became the same as in premenopausal women. Total osteocalcin level (bound) osteocalcin. While there was vitamin K correctable undercarboxylation of osteocalcin, simultaneously there was no evidence of undercarboxylation of prothrombin.
Evaluation of a first-line spectrophotometric screening test for increased faecal porphyrin concentration.	We compared a spectrophotometric screening test measuring faecal porphyrin concentration with an HPLC method. There was a good overall correlation between both methods although some scatter was observed. ROC plot analysis of the screening test leads to a cut-off value of 35 nmol porphyrin per g faeces, wet weight with a sensitivity of 97% and a specificity of 96%. These results indicate that the screening test is quite useful for detection of increased total faecal porphyrin concentration, but less useful in accurate measurement of increased total faecal porphyrin concentration.
Determination of normal versus abnormal activated partial thromboplastin time and prothrombin time after cardiopulmonary bypass.	The study's objective was to determine the prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) values that differentiated normal from excessively bleeding patients immediately after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).
The use of an asymmetric film-screen combination for the imaging of round pulmonary foci]	To examine the diagnostic advantages of an asymmetric film-screen system (a-FSS) compared to a conventional 200-speed FSS with and without anatomical lung filter.
Estrogen receptors in 699 primary breast cancers: a comparison of immunohistochemical and biochemical methods.	Over the last few years, estrogen receptor (ER) determination by immunohistochemistry (ER-ICA) has been extensively used, but it still remains to be established whether this method can replace the standard biochemical technique using dextran-coated charcoal (ERDCC).
CA15-3, CASA, MSA, and TPS as diagnostic serum markers in breast cancer.	This is the first comparison of the three mucin based tests CA15-3, CASA, and MSA, and the cytokeratin-related TPS assay in breast cancer. The mucin markers were superior to TPS in receiver-operator analysis, though no marker was of use in the diagnosis of malignancy due to low sensitivity. Using cutpoints that gave 95% specificity in benign disease (n = 83), corresponding sensitivities in pre-treatment breast cancer (n = 123: 13 in situ, 54 stage I, 45 stage II, 4 stage III, 7 stage IV) were 17% (CA15-3), 16% (CASA), 13% (MSA), and 8% (TPS), with a strong relationship between marker levels and disease stage. These assays did not always detect the same patients, and the use of CA15-3 combined with CASA gave the highest sensitivity (23%), though this was not significantly better than the use of CA15-3 alone. Despite detecting similar antigens, these assays can show markedly different responses in some patients, indicating that one mucin-based test cannot be substituted for another.
Interpretation of eucapnic voluntary hyperventilation in the diagnosis of asthma.	Eucapnic voluntary hyperventilation (EVH) of dry gas is a physiologic bronchoprovocation challenge useful in the diagnosis of asthma. To determine the best parameter and threshold for diagnosis and the proper timing of postchallenge measurements, we reviewed 120 challenges, comparing the decrement from baseline in FVC, FEV1, mean forced expiratory flow during the middle half of the FVC (FEF25-75%), and peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) each at 0, 5, 10, and 20 min postchallenge. After adjustment to a standard minute ventilation of 30 times the baseline FEV1 for 6 min, the mean response by 90 mild asthmatics differed from 30 normal subjects in all four parameters (p < 0.0001). In asthmatics, maximum decline from baseline (mean +/- SEM) was as follows: FVC, 12.1 +/- 1.2%; FEV1, 19.7 +/- 1.7%; FEF 25-75%, 33.5 +/- 2.5%; and PEFR, 29.0 +/- 1.9%. Normal subjects had a maximum fall as follows: FVC, 2.9 +/- 0.7%; FEV1, 3.8 +/- 0.7%; FEF25-75%, 11.8 +/- 2.0%; and PEFR, 11.5 +/- 1.0%. Based on comparison of receiver operator characteristic curves, FEV1 was more accurate than FEF25-75% and equivalent to FVC and PEFR. A threshold of 10% change or greater in FEV1 had a specificity of 90%, with a sensitivity of 63.3%. A threshold of 15% or greater had a specificity of 100%, with a sensitivity of 53.3%. The FEV1 fell by 10% or more in 55 of 90 asthmatics at 5 or 10 min after hyperventilation. Measurements at 0 or 20 min added two additional positive responses. We conclude that in the proper clinical setting, subjects whose FEV1 declines by 10% or more at 5 or 10 min after EVH should be diagnosed as having asthma.
Serum interleukin-6, interleukin-8, and beta 2-microglobulin in early assessment of severity of acute pancreatitis. Comparison with serum C-reactive protein.	The aim of this study was to compare the sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy of serum interleukin-6, interleukin-8, beta 2-microglobulin, and C-reactive protein in the assessment of the severity of acute pancreatitis using commercial kits for their respective assays. Thirty-eight patients with acute pancreatitis (25 men, 13 women, mean age 59 years, range 16-97) were studied; the diagnosis was based on prolonged upper abdominal pain associated with a twofold increase of serum lipase, and it was confirmed by imaging techniques. According to the Atlanta criteria, 15 patients had severe illness and 23 had mild disease. The four serum markers were determined in all patients on admission, as well as daily for the following five days. On the first day of the disease, the sensitivity (calculated on patients with severe pancreatitis), specificity (calculated on patients with mild pancreatitis), and the diagnostic accuracy of these serum markers for establishing the severity of acute pancreatitis were 100%, 86%, and 91% for interleukin-6 (cutoff level 2.7 pg/ml); 100%, 81% and 88% for interleukin-8 (cutoff level 30 pg/ml); 58%, 81%, and 73% for beta 2-microglobulin (cutoff level 2.1 mg/liter); and 8%, 95%, and 64% for C-reactive protein (cutoff level 11 mg/dl). The results of our study indicate that, when assayed during the first 24 hr of disease onset, interleukin-6 and interleukin-8 are better markers than beta 2-microglobulin or C-reactive protein for evaluating the severity of acute pancreatitis.
Urinary epidermal growth factor receptor-binding growth factors in patients with cancers of the digestive tract.	To investigate whether the urinary excretion of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) is increased in patients with cancer of the digestive tract, EGF and TGF-alpha were determined in 109 cancer patients and 40 healthy controls. Excluding EGF in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and TGF-alpha in pancreatic cancer, both growth factors in each cancer group were significantly higher than in the control group. A receiver operating characteristic curve and likelihood ratio were applied to obtain the best diagnostic efficiency. Both EGF and TGF-alpha had high specificity (100%) in all cancer group. The high sensitivity of EGF in gastric cancer (100%) and metastatic liver cancer (93.3%), moderate sensitivity of TGF-alpha in metastatic liver cancer (86.6%), colon cancer (80.0%), and HCC (61.7%) suggested that they might be helpful in identifying these cancers. In conclusion, urinary excretion of EGF and TGF-alpha increased in most cancers of the digestive tract. They may be used as tumor markers.
Separation of systematic and random differences in ordinal rating scales.	We introduce a new statistical method, which separates and measures different types of variability between paired ordered categorical measurements. The key to the separation is a two-way augmented ranking approach of observations in a contingency table. It means that cases classified in a specific category by one rater will be internally ranked according to the classifications from the other. This enables us to extract the component of interobserver variation which is not systematic. The variance of the rank differences between judgements is a suitable measure of this interrater variability, which we characterize as random. The empirical measure of random interjudge disagreement, which lies between 0 and 1, is called the relative rank variance and is an estimate of a parameter defined on the multinomial probability distribution in the contingency table. The systematic differences are determined by the marginals and described by two empirical measures, relative position and relative concentration; both measures lie between -1 and 1. Our method is applied to data sets from a reliability study of two clinical rating scales for assessing hydrocephalus and subarachnoid haemorrhage.
An evaluation of factors influencing Bayesian learning systems.	To examine the influences of situational and model factors on the accuracy of Bayesian learning systems.
Detection limits and receiver operating characteristic curve analysis in the evaluation of specific IgE assays.	One of the major sources of uncertainty and controversy in allergy testing is the definition and clinical significance of a positive test result in the low assay range. Use of analytical detection limit theory can guide the diagnostic allergy laboratory director in setting a lower assay cutoff and in the evaluation of the recommended cutoff by the manufacturer of the assay. Several methods for calculating lower limit of detection are applicable to specific IgE assay methods. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves illustrate the relationship between statistical sensitivity and specificity as cutoffs are adjusted, and statistical analysis of ROC curves is an invaluable aspect of the comparative performance evaluation of two or more assays relative to an independent standard such as skin testing.
Optimization of chest films of equalization radiography (advanced multiple beam equalization radiography). Comparison by means of a receiver operating characteristic study of simulated nodular interstitial disease.	To optimize screen-film combinations for equalization radiography (advanced multiple beam equalization radiography [AMBER]), five different film-screen-technique combinations were compared by receiver operating characteristics study of simulated interstitial disease.
Sonographic features of portal hypertension in schistosomiasis mansoni.	The diagnostic value of real-time sonography in the study of portal hypertension was assessed in 66 patients with hepatosplenic schistosomiasis mansoni, all with Symmers's fibrosis and esophageal varices. Seventy-one individuals without schistosomiasis were selected as controls. The inner diameters of the portal vessels were measured by sonography in all patients and controls: splenoportography was also performed in the schistosomal group. Intra-splenic pressure was over 30 cm of water in 44 of 60 patients with schistosomiasis. The upper limit of normality for portal vessel diameters was set through receiver operating characteristic curve at 12 mm for portal vein, 9 mm for splenic vein at splenic hilus, and 9 mm for superior mesenteric vein. The best discriminative vein for the diagnosis of portal hypertension was the splenic vein followed by the portal vein. A direct correlation was observed between the diameter of the splenic vein, measured by sonography, and the intra-splenic pressure. Except for the paraumbilical and mesenteric veins, more frequently identified by sonography, there was no statistical difference in the frequency of visualization of splanchnic vessels by sonography or splenoportography.
Performance on the internal medicine second-year residency in-training examination predicts the outcome of the ABIM certifying examination.	For 223 residents from eight teaching hospitals, the results of the second-year in-training examination and the first-sitting certifying examination of the American Board of Internal Medicine were highly correlated. The results of the in-training examination can serve residents as an important measure of their preparedness for certification and can be useful in identifying the need for more intensive self-study strategies during the subsequent one and a half years.
Informative usefulness of age, sex and vital signs in the differential diagnosis of disturbed consciousness among 175 emergency outpatients.	Final diagnoses were determined among 175 emergency patients with disturbed consciousness with a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) of less than 15 and diagnostic usefulness of basic information was assessed using clinico-epidemiological indices. Subject patients included 98 males and 77 females with average age 53.4 years. Final diagnoses were as follows: intracranial lesions in 69 patients (39.4%), metabolic and systemic diseases in 97 (55.4%), mental diseases in 4 (2.3%), and diseases of unknown origin in 5 (2.9%). Cerebrovascular disorders and epilepsy were most frequent among the intracranial lesions, and poisoning, hypoglycemia, acute alcoholism and hypoxic encephalopathy among the metabolic and systemic diseases. Informative usefulness of age, sex and vital sings in diagnosing cerebrovascular disorders was analyzed with the use of ROC curves, showing that cut-off points of age over 60 years and of systolic blood pressure greater than 160 mmHg were most useful.
The reliability of computer analysis of ultrasonographic prostate images: the influence of inconsistent histopathology.	This article describes a method to investigate the influence of inconsistent histopathology during the development of tissue discrimination algorithms. Review of the pathology is performed on the biopsies used as training set of a computer system for cancer detection in ultrasonographic prostate images. The influence of the discrepancies found between independent pathologists on the discriminating power of the system is investigated. A high diagnostic consistency in histopathology concerning only the categories malignant and nonmalignant is found. Therefore, review of the pathology does not significantly influence the results of tissue discrimination algorithms for cancer detection. However a high interobserver variability is obtained in the differentiation between more histology classes.
Value of elementary, combined, and modeled hemodynamic variables.	It has been well recognized that the usefulness of the clinical examination and simple hemodynamic variables in the critically ill is limited. Modelization for hemodynamic analysis may improve the diagnostic performance by a systematic and multivariate analysis. This requires a rigorous formalization that may otherwise expand the usefulness of hemodynamic data, both as predictors and as therapeutic targets. Our study was designed to test the value of a model for assessing the pathophysiology of circulatory disorders and for establishing the diagnosis.
Use of a receiver operating characteristic in the evaluation of two commercial enzyme immunoassays for detection of Helicobacter pylori infection.	Two novel commercial IgG enzyme immunoassay (EIA) systems based on acid-glycine-extracted (Pyloriset IgG EIA, Orion Diagnostica) or fast protein liquid chromatography-purified (Cobas Core Anti-H. pylori EIA, Roche Diagnostic Systems) Helicobacter antigens were evaluated in a prospective study involving 127 patients. All patients underwent upper endoscopy with biopsy, and biopsies were examined for the presence of Helicobacter pylori by a rapid urease test, microscopy and culture. Of the 71 patients found to be infected with Helicobacter pylori, 69 (97.2%) and 65 (91.5%) tested positive with the Cobas Core and Pyloriset test, respectively. A detailed receiver operating characteristic analysis of the two tests showed that the Cobas Core assay was more sensitive and specific at every possible cut-off level; gave a better resolution of individual results, indicating a greater fine-sensitivity; and had no grey zone compared to a large grey zone encompassing 13.4% of the serum samples tested with the Pyloriset EIA. The Cobas Core assay appears to be a valuable tool for epidemiological purposes as well as for pre-endoscopic screening of dyspeptic patients.
A latent trait analysis of an inventory designed to detect symptoms of anxiety and depression using an elderly community sample.	An 18-item inventory designed by Goldberg et al. (1987) to detect symptoms of anxiety and depression was administered to an elderly general population sample. Latent trait analysis was used to assess the dimensionality of the inventory and the location and discriminatory ability of the symptoms. The items showed different patterns of discrimination in this group compared to the sample of general practice attenders on which the inventory was developed. Overall, the items did define two correlated dimensions of anxiety and depression. In addition, a third dimension of sleep disturbance was detected. Both individual scales and the total symptom scores were sensitive and relatively specific detectors of depressive disorders assessed according to ICD-10 and DSM-III-R criteria. The retention of sleep items on their original scales did not affect the sensitivity of the scales to detect depressive disorders. A two-step administration procedure suggested for use in the administration of the scales was investigated but found to be sensitive to differences between the current sample and the sample on which the inventory was developed. This symptom inventory can be recommended for use in epidemiological investigations as a brief, valid and acceptable method of detecting elevated levels of anxiety and depression in elderly persons.
How much ulcer is ulcer-like? Diagnostic determinants of peptic ulcer in open access gastroscopy.	A cross-sectional diagnostic prevalence study was carried out within a multi-centre experiment with open access gastroscopy in Utrecht, The Netherlands. The objective of the study was to contribute to improvement of patient selection for open access gastroscopy and to evaluate diagnostic determinants for peptic ulcer. Data were analysed in all 861 patients who were consecutively newly referred during the experiment to undergo gastrocopy. Patient characteristics and outcomes of gastroscopies were recorded. Univariate and multivariate (logistic) analyses were carried out and the results were evaluated with ROC (receiver operating characteristic) analysis. The most important clinical characteristics to be used for prediction of peptic ulcer are pain on an empty stomach, absence of pain after a meal and absence of obstructive complaints. The scoring list derived from the full model, comprising these characteristics together with age, sex, information on former dyspeptic diseases, medication and smoking ('basic characteristics'), predicted peptic ulcer with an AUC of 0.78. The 'ulcer-like' model, with characteristics known from the literature, had an AUC of 0.76. The amount of gastroscopy requests on patients suspected of a peptic ulcer could have been reduced from 60 to 44%. Forcing 'basic characteristics' into scoring lists on peptic ulcer improved the pre-diagnostic test capacities. The presented scoring list may improve gastroscopy requesting by GPs aiming at finding peptic ulcers. Practical manageability of the list should be prospectively evaluated in future experiments.
Classification of diagnostic tests.	A method is described for classifying diagnostic tests. It is valid for the large subgroup of tests for which the measured diagnostic variable has a normal distribution for the affected and non-affected individuals. It is based on placing each diagnostic test as a point on a two-dimensional graph, called a separation-asymmetry (SA) diagram, whose x-axis is the separation between the two normal distributions and whose y-axis is the logarithm of the ratio of their standard deviations. The SA diagram is partitioned into functional regions by curves of constant performance, as measured by the percent overlap between the two normal distributions. The concept of 'eccentricity' in a diagnostic test is defined, and the relationship between eccentricity and test validity is discussed. This quantity is also incorporated into SA diagrams, thus allowing a clinician to determine, by inspection, if a given diagnostic test positioned on an SA diagram is valid for clinical use. The logic engine used for calculating iso-performance curves is given, as well as the computer programs which utilize it. Possible ways of using this classification scheme are suggested.
CRIB and SNAP: assessing the risk of death for preterm neonates.	The performance of three scoring systems for assessing mortality risk for neonates--clinical risk index for babies (CRIB), score for neonatal acute physiology (SNAP), and SNAP's perinatal extension (SNAP-PE)--were tested in the same set of patients. In 222 neonates weighing less than 1500 g at birth, CRIB scores were significantly better for assessing mortality risk than SNAP (p = 0.017) or SNAP-PE (p < 0.001), areas under receiver operating characteristic curves being 0.89 (SE 0.02), 0.82 (0.03), and 0.79 (0.03), respectively. Male sex was independently associated with poor prognosis after taking the CRIB score into account with a risk ratio of 2.75. We conclude that CRIB is the most useful score for comparing the performance of neonatal intensive-care units. New treatment methods, however, may require modifications to the system.
Cross talk between plasma membrane and sarcoplasmic reticulum in canine airway smooth muscle.	In smooth muscle, contractions under pharmacomechanical and electromechanical coupling mechanism control rely on mobilization of intracellular calcium and on calcium influx from the extracellular space, respectively. In airway smooth muscle, pharmacomechanical coupling seems to predominate. Even if extracellular calcium enters the cell during agonist stimulation, and contributes to the maintained plateau phase of a prolonged stimulation-induced contraction, it does not result from membrane depolarization and is not part of the electromechanical coupling mechanism. Pharmacomechanical and electromechanical coupling are most likely not independent processes: we present here an example of cross talk between plasma membrane and sarcoplasmic reticulum, which results in an almost complete switch in the E-C coupling process from pharmaco- to electromechanical mode in tracheal smooth muscle.
Breast cancer marker Ca549. A multicenter study.	A multicenter study of CA549, a marker for breast cancer, was conducted using sera from 1721 patients with benign and malignant conditions by an immunoradiometric assay, BRESMARQ. Acceptable assay performance was demonstrated by studies of intra-assay (2.2% to 12% coefficient of variation [CV]), interassay (4.1% to 11.8% CV), and interlaboratory (4.8% to 8.7% CV) precision; sensitivity (.3 kU/L); linearity; recovery; high-dose hook effect (up to 10,000 kU/L); and interferences (human antimouse antibodies; protein, bilirubin, hemoglobin levels; lipid and cancer therapeutic agents). A reference interval of 0-12.5 kU/L (women) and 0-11.9 kU/L (men) was established from 746 healthy persons. The distribution of values exceeding the reference range for benign conditions was as follows: pregnant and lactating women (2%); benign breast disease (5%); and seven other benign diseases, including liver (24%), lung (19%), prostate (14%), colon, endometrial, gastric, and ovarian (< 10%). For nonbreast cancers, the distribution was Hodgkin's (7%), colon (10%), endometrial (15%), gastric (15%), lymphoma (15%), prostate (20%), ovarian (39%), and liver (45%). For breast cancer, the distribution was stage I (5%), stage II (14%), stage III (32%), and stage IV (74%). The receiver-operating characteristic analysis demonstrated the usefulness of CA549 as a marker in stage IV breast cancer.
Predicting outcomes after liver transplantation. A connectionist approach.	The authors sought to train an artificial neural network to predict early outcomes after orthotopic liver transplantation.
Herd prevalence and geographic distribution of, and risk factors for, bovine paratuberculosis in Wisconsin.	A random sample of Wisconsin dairy herds, stratified by herd size, were tested for paratuberculosis by use of an absorbed ELISA procedure. The ELISA was optimized for overall accuracy by means of receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, and had a sensitivity and specificity of 50.9 and 94.9%, respectively. Herd prevalence was analyzed for correlation with responses to a management practices questionnaire completed by the herd owners. One hundred and fifty-eight herds and 4,990 cattle were tested. Of these, 50% of herds and 7.29% of cattle had positive test results. Calculation of true prevalence from the apparent prevalence indicated that 4.79% of cattle and 34% of the Wisconsin dairy herds tested had serologic evidence of paratuberculosis. Among the 54 herds classified as positive on the basis of true prevalence estimation, the mean number of test positive cattle was 20.3%. The geographic distribution of herds with positive results was not uniform. More infected herds were found in the southern and western districts of Wisconsin than in the eastern district. The west-central district had a larger number of infected herds than did other districts. By use of chi 2 analysis, the only management factor found to be significantly associated with herd prevalence was housing of calves after weaning (P = 0.03). Specifically, in herds with higher prevalence, calves were separated after weaning into calf barns and hutches rather than into pens in the cow barn more often than in herds with lower prevalence. This factor was also considered significant by use of logistic regression analysis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Validation of a psychophysiological waking erectile assessment (WEA) for the diagnosis of male erectile disorder.	The aim of the present study was to evaluate a psychophysiological waking erectile assessment (WEA). WEA was designed to elicit penile responses using visual and vibrotactile stimuli and cognitive tasks (distraction and monitoring of erections).
T2-weighted MR imaging of the upper part of the abdomen: should fat suppression be used routinely?	Fat suppression has shown promise in improving the quality of T2-weighted spin-echo MR images of the upper part of the abdomen. The purpose of this study was to determine whether fat-suppressed images should be routinely used in lieu of conventional images. Accordingly, we prospectively compared the two techniques in a series of patients with both normal and abnormal findings in the upper part of the abdomen.
Measuring diagnostic accuracy in the absence of a "gold standard".	As the nation debates issues of national health care reform, psychiatrists seek equal status with other medical colleagues. To defend psychiatry in the national arena, the accuracy of psychiatric diagnoses must be measured. Indexes of accuracy such as sensitivity and specificity provide valuable information, yet they are rarely computed because there is no "gold standard" with which to compare them. The goal of this article is to show how this problem can be overcome and to encourage nosologists to use accuracy statistics in assessing the adequacy of psychiatric diagnoses.
Intraoperative cardiac output monitoring: comparison of impedance cardiography and thermodilution.	Impedance cardiography (IC) is a noninvasive, simple to use method of cardiac output (CO) determination. A prospective evaluation of IC monitoring was performed in 50 patients undergoing noncardiac surgery. IC CO measurements (NC-COM3-Revision 7, BoMed Manufacturing) were compared to simultaneous measurements of thermodilution (TD) CO to assess the validity of this technique for intraoperative cardiac monitoring. Adequate impedance signals could not be obtained in 7 of the 50 patients. IC CO measurements were highly correlated to TD CO (P < .005), with a correlation coefficient r = 0.84. Bias analysis, however, indicated clinically significant disagreement between the two techniques. IC CO tended to underestimate TD CO (mean bias = -0.41 L/min) and the SD of the bias was 1.0 L/min (95% level of agreement 1.6 to -2.4 L/min). Trending data showed IC to accurately track the direction of TD CO changes but to underestimate their magnitude (r = 0.60, intercept -0.7 L/min, slope 0.47). Factors that may have impaired the performance of IC in this study include the high prevalence of cardiac disease in the study population and electrical noise in the operative setting. Further development of IC appears warranted if it is to prove useful as an intraoperative cardiac monitor.
Quantitative analysis of carcinoembryonic antigen, squamous cell carcinoma antigen, CA 125, and CA 50 cytosolic content in non-small cell lung cancer.	The cytosolic content of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), CA 125, and CA 50 antigens in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is analyzed in this study. The aim was to ascertain the relationship between tumor marker content and the clinicopathologic aspects of this neoplasm.
Computerized characterization of mammographic masses: analysis of spiculation.	Although general rules for the differentiation between benign and malignant breast lesions exist, only 10 to 20% of masses referred for surgical breast biopsy are actually malignant. We are developing, as an aid to radiologists, a computerized scheme for the classification of masses appearing on mammograms to reduce the number of false-positive diagnoses of malignancies. The classification scheme involves the extraction of the margin of masses in order to quantify the degree of spiculation, which, in turn, is related to the likelihood of malignancy. When two measures of spiculation are used as input to an artificial neural network, the scheme achieves a performance similar to that achieved when radiologist's spiculation ratings alone are used for a clinical database of 53 masses. The computerized classification scheme therefore has the potential to effectively aid radiologists in determining appropriate patient management.
Quantitative ultrasonic detection of parenchymal structural change in diffuse renal disease.	The authors determined whether quantitative ultrasound could be useful in the evaluation of diffuse renal disease.
Receiver operating characteristic evaluation of computer display of adult portable chest radiographs.	The suitability of using an image console monitor for interpretation of adult portable chest radiographs was evaluated with receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis and subjective techniques.
Computing sample size for receiver operating characteristic studies.	Hanley and McNeil (1982) proposed a nonparametric method for computing the standard error of the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. The method has been important in planning the minimum sample size for ROC studies. However, the validity of this method for rating data with various standard deviation ratios has not been investigated.
Color-flow duplex scanning of carotid arteries: new velocity criteria based on receiver operator characteristic analysis for threshold stenoses used in the symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid trials.	Duplex scanning has become the standard for noninvasive evaluation of carotid arteries. However, current ultrasound criteria for internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis (16% to 49%, 50% to 79%, 80% to 99%) may not be applicable to the categories (30% to 49%, 50% to 69%, 70% to 99%) used in ongoing symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid endarterectomy trials. This study was undertaken to determine new velocity criteria consistent with these categories.
Prognostic significance of right ventricular hypokinesis and perfusion lung scan defects in pulmonary embolism.	We studied the relation between right ventricular (RV) hypokinesis on echocardiography and defects on the initial perfusion lung scan among 90 hemodynamically stable patients with pulmonary embolism (PE). Of the 90, 38 had qualitative evidence of RV hypokinesis, with a mean RV end-diastolic area significantly larger than those with normal RV wall motion (40.0 +/- 10.2 cm2 vs 20.1 +/- 6.4 cm2; p < 0.001). The degree of the perfusion defect was greater in those patients with baseline RV hypokinesis (54% +/- 16% of the lung nonperfused) than in those patients with normal RV wall motion at baseline (30% +/- 18% nonperfused lung; p < 0.001). Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed that a perfusion lung scan defect score of 0.3 (i.e., 30% of the lung nonperfused) had a 92% sensitivity for predicting RV hypokinesis and carried a relative risk for observing RV hypokinesis of 6.8 times greater than among those patients with a perfusion scan score of < 0.3. Considering that all patients with recurrent symptomatic PE were in the subgroup with RV hypokinesis (13% vs 0% for those with normal RV wall motion; p = 0.01), a strategy of performing echocardiography in those patients with a perfusion scan defect score of > or = 0.3 appears to identify patients at increased risk for recurrent PE.
The importance of optical density for x-ray film screening]	The requirements of DIN 6856, part 1 (draft), for x-ray film screening conditions can be substantiated qualitatively and partly also quantitatively, e.g. by means of the ROC concept. In addition, the tolerance range of the optical density is seen to increase with increasing light intensity of x-ray film observation conditions. The light intensity of x-ray film screening conditions should be limited to 2500 cd/m2 to 3000 cd/m2 as a maximum to avoid the enhanced radiation of the patient, with is increased by 50% or the distribution rate of the optical density should be checked from time to time.
Computerized detection of masses in digital mammograms: investigation of feature-analysis techniques.	Mammographic screening of asymptomatic women has shown effectiveness in the reduction of breast cancer mortality. We are developing a computerized scheme for the detection of mammographic masses as an aid to radiologists in mammographic screening programs. Possible masses on digitized screen/film mammograms are initially identified using a nonlinear bilateral-subtraction technique, which is based on asymmetric density patterns occurring in corresponding portions of right and left mammograms. In this study, we analyze the characteristics of actual masses and nonmass detections to develop feature-analysis techniques with which to reduce the number of nonmass (ie, false-positive) detections. These feature-analysis techniques involve (1) the extraction of various features (such as area, contrast, circularity and border-distance based on the density and geometric information of masses in both processed, and original breast images), and (2) tests of the extracted features to reduce nonmass detections. Cumulative histograms of both actual-mass detections and nonmass detections are used to characterize extracted features and to determine the cutoff values used in the feature tests. The effectiveness of the feature-analysis techniques is evaluated in combination with the computerized detection scheme that uses the nonlinear bilateral-subtraction technique using free-response receiver operating characteristic analysis and 77 patient cases (308 mammograms). Results show that the feature-analysis techniques effectively improve the performance of the computerized detection scheme: about 35% false-positive detections were eliminated without loss in sensitivity when the feature-analysis techniques were used.
The monitor findings of digitalized conventional wrist x-rays]	The study aimed at proving the reliability of monitor systems with the matrix of 1024 x 768 for the detection of scaphoid fractures compared to conventional X-ray. Moreover, we were interested in the significance of procedures of digital imaging post processing, depending in particular on the experience of investigators. 5 investigators with different levels of experience analysed 57 X-rays of the wrist. They compared conventional X-rays with images on a high screen monitor system after the digitalisation of these X-rays by a CCD-scanner and analysed untreated and treated images. A 5-point scale ROC analysis was used for evaluation. The analysis covered a total of 1740 evaluations. The untreated images seen on the monitor system proved slightly better than conventional X-rays. Post-processing has no evident advantage over untreated images. Differing levels of experience had no effect whatsoever on the identification of findings.
Quantitative coronary angiography in the estimation of the functional significance of coronary stenosis: correlations with dobutamine-atropine stress test.	The purpose of this study was to determine the predictive value of quantitative coronary angiography in the assessment of the functional significance of coronary stenosis as judged from the development of left ventricular wall motion abnormalities during dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography.
A neural network classifier for cerebral perfusion imaging.	Artificial neural networks have been applied to a variety of pattern recognition tasks in medical imaging and have been shown to be a powerful classification tool. The potential usefulness to discriminate normal from abnormal cerebral perfusion patterns was investigated.
Evaluation of the scanner and radiography in rheumatic pelvispondylitis]	We studied 20 normal subjects and 20 suffering from sacro-iliitis. The performance of the two techniques were compared in studying reports ROC curve from several readers. We assessed the performance of each technique and each sign: CT scan appears as a better technique than plain films. Some signs present a poor interest: osteophytes seen on CT or plain films, subchondral cysts seen on CT. In other respects, articular cartilage erosions, subchondral sclerosis are main signs as much on CT as on plain films. In conclusion, CT scan allowed an accurate analysis of sacro-iliitis. It has a better diagnostic value than plain films and, in case of doubt, should be performed to increase diagnosis sensibility and specificity.
The value of CT for the diagnosis of rectal cancer recurrence. A ROC study and a retrospective analysis]	To assess the ability of CT to detect recurrent tumor growth after colorectal surgery for rectal carcinoma independently of clinical bias and patient selection, a receiver operator characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed. A set of 100 CT scans, 50 scans of 35 patients with proven recurrent disease, and 50 normal postoperatives of 37 patients were read by four observers without knowledge of the present clinical status. The four ROC curves had an area under the curve (AUC) ranging from 0.69 to 0.78 (SD from 0.046 to 0.053). The slightly raised AUC indicates the poor diagnostic power of CT in discriminating between postoperative changes and recurrence. In a retrospective analysis of the CT scans of the 72 patients CT had an overall accuracy of 83%. CT was unable to detect small anastomotic recurrence. The morphological characteristics of recurrence were not specific, but an irregular globular mass with or without inhomogeneity or asymmetry strongly suggests recurrent tumor and stresses the need for further evaluation, e.g., CT-guided biopsy.
Value of phase-shift gradient-echo MR imaging in the differentiation of pelvic lesions with high signal intensity at T1-weighted imaging.	To assess the value of phase-shift gradient-echo magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with the fast low-angle shot (FLASH) technique in the differentiation of hemorrhagic tumors and teratomas.
Application of neural networks to the classification of giant cell arteritis.	Neural networks are a group of computer-based pattern recognition methods that have recently been applied to clinical diagnosis and classification. In this study, we applied one type of neural network, the backpropagation network, to the diagnostic classification of giant cell arteritis (GCA).
When is a test positive? The use of decision analysis to optimize test interpretation.	Clinical laboratory are often provided as numerical values that are then interpreted as being positive or negative. While this approach might simplify interpretation, it also makes interpretation contingent on a standard test cutoff point. Alternatively, test results can be interpreted for a specific patient with reference to the particular patient's probability of disease, the benefit of detecting disease when it is present, and the cost of mistakenly making the diagnosis when the disease is a absent. This paper explains the analysis of laboratory test results using techniques from decision analysis and receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve analysis to define a positive result. The relationship between the ROC curve and likelihood ratios is illustrated using the diagnosis of urinary tract infection (UTI) to illustrate these concepts.
Electrophysiologic identification of the cochlear nerve fibers during cerebello-pontine angle surgery.	To facilitate identification and preservation of the auditory nerve during cerebello-pontine angle surgery, bipolar recording of cochlear nerve compound action potentials (CNAPs) was performed. Two silver wires insulated with teflon up to the exposed ends were utilized as electrodes. They were twisted together, the distance between the two tips being 1 mm or less. Rarefaction polarity clicks (31/s) ranging from the psychoacoustical threshold to 120 dB pe SPL were used as stimuli. The investigation was performed in three groups of patients. The first group consisted of 9 patients submitted to vestibular neurectomy and 4 patients operated on by microvascular decompression of the eighth nerve. The second group comprised 8 patients with acoustic tumors smaller than 2 mm and serviceable hearing. Postoperative audiometric results in the subjects in the second group were compared with those obtained in well-matched homogeneous controls consisting of patients with acoustic neuroma operated on without the aid of CNAP recording. Bipolar recording from the eighth nerve was extremely selective, a good response being obtained only when positioning the electrode on the cochlear portion of the eighth nerve. During removal of the acoustic neuroma, repeated bipolar probing of the tumor and eighth nerve facilitated the task of distinguishing the cochlear nerve from other nervous structures and from the tumor, and contributed to preserving hearing in most patients.
Evaluation of cardiac cone-beam single photon emission computed tomography using observer performance experiments and receiver operating characteristic analysis.	Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with a cone-beam collimator improves the trade-off between detection efficiency and spatial resolution for cardiac imaging. However, acquisitions using orbits where the focus remains in a plane do not provide sufficient data for exact reconstruction. In the current study the authors evaluate the clinical utility of planar-orbit cone-beam SPECT in detecting a simple myocardial defect.
Evaluation of an enhanced digital film-duplication system by receiver operating characteristic analysis.	Over- or underexposure often results in poor quality radiographs. Using receiver operating characteristic analysis, the authors investigated the potential utility of a system that corrects densities in such images to improve the accuracy of lung nodule detection.
Scoring the Farnsworth-Munsell 100-hue for vocational guidance.	We considered whether the color discrimination of mild color defectives scoring < or = 100 is the same as that of normals.
Simultaneous assessment of bone collagen synthesis and degradation in patients with different malignant tumours. Comparison with the results of 99mTc-methylene bisphosphonate bone scintigraphy.	We report on the diagnostic validity of the serum concentrations of the C-terminal propeptide of type I procollagen (a marker of bone formation) and of the urinary excretion of deoxypyridinoline (a marker of bone resorption) in a consecutive series of 89 tumour patients who were routinely examined by 99mTc-methylene bisphosphonate bone scintigraphy for detection of bone metastases. Z score analysis reveals that the discriminating power of deoxypyridinoline is superior to that of calcium excretion whereas the discriminating power of the C-terminal propeptide concentrations is inferior to that of bone alkaline phosphatase values. Accuracy (as assessed by the area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve) was 0.75 for deoxypyridinoline and 0.82 for the C-terminal propeptide. Combination of both markers did not yield an increase of accuracy (0.82) compared with the determination of the C-terminal propeptide concentrations alone. There was a correlation (r = +0.398; p < 0.0001) between C-terminal propeptide concentrations and deoxypyridinoline excretion values in the group of 89 patients examined. Further studies should be done to elucidate whether the determination of bone collagen turnover is suitable as a screening procedure for detecting bone metastases.
Time changes of creatine kinase and creatine kinase-MB isoenzyme versus discrimination values in the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction: what is the optimal method for displaying the data?	We wanted to determine the optimal method for displaying data for the clinical evaluation of patients with possible acute myocardial infarction. Our primary question was, are the time changes (slopes) of the enzyme tests better predictors of disease than the discrimination values, i.e., the cut-off points? We studied 152 patients with and 114 without a diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction in their medical records. For patients with acute myocardial infarction, we found the most discriminating tests, in decreasing order of the area of the ROC curves, to be the creatine kinase-MB slope at 0 to 12 hours, the creatine kinase-MB slope at 12 to 24 hours, the creatine kinase-MB values between 12 and 24 hours, and the creatine kinase-MB values between 0 and 12 hours. Decreasing values of creatine kinase-MB in the first tests after admission were only slightly less discriminating than increasing ones. At 12 to 24 hours after admission, the total creatine kinase as a value or slope, or the "relative index" (a ratio of the creatine kinase-MB in microgram/l [times 100] to the total creatine kinase) as a value or slope were inferior to creatine kinase-MB presentations. From the data for 44 patients with acute myocardial infarction and a known time of onset of symptoms, we were able to estimate an approximate onset time in patients where this was not available.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Evaluation of the COBAS CORE Immunoassay for measuring prostate-specific antigen (PSA)--multi-centre study results. The PSA Study Group.	Hoffmann-La Roche has introduced a fully automated COBAS CORE EIA for the measurement of prostate specific antigen (PSA). A regular and an ultrasensitive version of the assay are available. Both versions of the COBAS CORE PSA EIA were compared with the established IMx PSA assay from Abbott. Sera from 98 apparently healthy males, 224 patients with benign prostate hyperplasia, 17 patients with prostatitis and 111 patients with prostate cancer were determined using the COBAS CORE PSA EIA in comparison with the IMx PSA assay. The sera were drawn before treatment. Sera from 26 patients were also monitored through follow-up testing. The COBAS CORE analyser allows rapid analysis of large series of samples. Intra-assay imprecision (CV) was between 1.7% and 4.9% (IMx PSA: between 2.4% and 2.7%). The coefficient of variation for inter-assay imprecision was between 3.4% and 6.5% (IMx PSA: between 3.2% and 3.3%). The analytical detection limit was determined as 0.2 microgram/l for the regular COBAS CORE PSA EIA and 0.05 microgram/l for the ultrasensitive version. A biological detection limit of 0.1 microgram/l was determined for the ultrasensitive version. Results obtained using the COBAS CORE PSA EIA and IMx PSA assays were in excellent correlation: coefficient of correlation r = 0.99 and slope = 0.92, using prostate-specific antigen values from the complete study. Only in the measuring range below 10 micrograms/l did the coefficients of correlation vary between 0.82 and 0.93.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The importance of monitoring colorectal adenomas by tumor markers (ROC analysis).	Are the increased values of specific tumor markers significant in monitoring colorectal adenomas at the beginning of malignant alteration? Tumor markers (CEA, CA 19-9 and CA 72-4) were determined in sera by IRMA kits. The increased levels of tumor markers CEA and CA 19-9 were statistically very significant in patients (28) with colorectal adenomas at the beginning of malignant alteration and in the group with colorectal adenocarcinomas (96). By ROC analysis the sensitivities, positive predictive values and negative predictive values of CEA and CA 19-9 were quite acceptable with high accuracies for all determined tumor markers in colorectal adenomas at the beginning of malignant alteration. Those findings suggest the importance of monitoring of colorectal tumours and precancerouses by tumor markers serum levels and it confirms the usefulness of counting results by ROC analysis.
PC-10 as a predictor of prognosis after antigen retrieval in posterior uveal melanoma.	The immunoexpression of the PC-10 monoclonal antibody for the proliferating cell nuclear antigen is claimed to have prognostic value in diverse tumors, but previous data on posterior uveal melanoma are conflicting. The aim of the current study was to investigate further the potential value of the PC-10 antibody in predicting tumor-related death after enucleation for posterior uveal melanoma.
Prognostic indices for mortality of hospitalized children in central Africa.	A hospital-based follow-up study was conducted between 1986 and 1988 at Lwiro (South Kivu Province, Zaire). Of 1,129 children in the study, three of four were severely malnourished, and 17.4% died. This study analyzes the mortality in hospital; its objectives are to evaluate the prognostic power of edema and anthropometric and biologic indicators and to seek indices that perform better. Receiver operating characteristic curves were established for each parameter under study and for each index constructed. Areas under receiver operating characteristic curves were highest for biologic indicators, and simple indices, obtained by counting the number of risk factors present, performed best. In the absence of biologic parameters, the authors suggest classifying children as at risk of dying when they present with edema and/or with arm circumference of less than 115 mm. When biologic measurements are possible, in addition to edema and arm circumference, the authors suggest taking serum albumin and transthyretin into account. For serum albumin and transthyretin, mortality risk is defined in terms of values of less than 16 g/liter and 6.5 mg/dl, respectively. Children will be classified as at risk of dying when they present with at least two of the four risk factors. The resulting diagnostic test has a high sensitivity (91.2%) and positive and negative predictive values of 40.8% and 97.9%, respectively.
Impact of lossy image compression on accuracy of caries detection in digital images taken with a storage phosphor system.	Image compression may reduce storage needs whether in the lossless (reversible) or lossy (irreversible) form. The aims of the study were to evaluate (1) storage needs, (2) subjective image quality, and (3) accuracy of caries detection in digital radiographs compressed to various levels by a lossy compression method. The material consisted of 116 extracted human premolars and molars. The teeth were mounted three in a line and radiographed by the Digora system (Sorodex Medical Systems, Helsinki, Finland). The images were exported in tagged image file format and compressed with the Lempel-Ziv-Welch reversible and the Joint Photographic Experts Group irreversible compression algorithm on four levels. The total of 580 images were assessed by five observers on a 5-rank confidence scale for caries diagnosis. The observers subjectively judged image quality on an 11-point rank scale. With the reversible compression, images could be compressed to less than 50% of the original storage needs whereas the four irreversible compression factors compressed to 20%, 8%, 5%, and 3%, respectively. For occlusal surfaces, when receiver operating characteristic curve areas were increasingly smaller and the compression rate was higher. The difference between the original and the most compressed images was 14% (p = 0.1). The median quality score was above middle on the 11-point rank scale for all except the most compressed images (median score = 1). In conclusion, for caries diagnosis, compression ratio rates of 1:12 can be justified before accuracy and image quality is significantly affected.
Restorative treatment decisions from bitewing radiographs--performance of dental epidemiologists and general dental practitioners.	The object of the study was to compare the performance of a group of eight trained and standardized dental epidemiologists making restorative treatment decisions with that of a group of 20 general dental practitioners. Both groups read the same set of 15 pairs of simulated bitewing radiographs. For each approximal tooth surface image, the examiners were asked to record on a six-point rating scale the confidence with which they would or would not place a restoration. A histological gold standard was available, based on microscopic evaluation of sections of the extracted teeth used for study. The reference criterion was "caries into dentine". The only statistically significant differences in performance between the two groups were at the "definitely" plus "probably" restore rating level. For the proportions of correct decisions out of all treatment decisions at this level, the epidemiologists scored 89% compared with 86% for practitioners (P < 0.01) while for Youden's J index, the corresponding values were 0.44 and 0.34 (P < 0.05). The findings suggest that the benefits in improved performance from examiner training may be small.
The contribution of the case-control approach to vaccine evaluation: Pneumococcal and Haemophilus influenzae type B PRP vaccines.	Case-control studies have had an increasing role in the postlicensure evaluation of vaccine efficacy. We review the contribution of case-control studies to the evaluation of vaccines for Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) and compare these studies with clinical trials of these vaccines. We located one clinical trial and eight case-control studies of Hib PRP vaccine efficacy and three clinical trials and four case-control studies of pneumococcal vaccine efficacy. The pooled estimate of Hib PRP vaccine efficacy based on the case-control studies (0.38, 95% CL = 0.15-0.55) was lower than the efficacy of the clinical trial conducted in Finland (0.8, 95% CL = 0.57-0.98). The pooled estimate of pneumococcal vaccine efficacy based on the case-control studies (0.56, 95% CL = 0.44-0.66) was also lower than the pooled efficacy of the South African clinical trials (0.79, 95% CL = 0.69-0.86). Although the clinical trials provided crucial evidence that these vaccines worked in selected international settings, the direct evidence of efficacy in the United States rests largely on the case-control results. The utility of the case-control approach is supported.
Metabolic characterization of breast tumors with positron emission tomography using F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose.	To evaluate the diagnostic value of position emission tomographic (PET) imaging with F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) in differentiating between benign and malignant breast tumors.
Clinical usefulness of serum carboxyterminal propeptide of type I procollagen and pyridinoline cross-linked carboxyterminal telopeptide of type I collagen in patients with prostate cancer.	A study was undertaken to evaluate the clinical usefulness of measurements of serum concentrations of the carboxyterminal propeptide of type I procollagen (PICP) and the pyridinoline cross-linked carboxyterminal telopeptide of type I collagen (ICTP) as parameters of bone metastasis in patients with prostate cancer. Serum PICP, ICTP, prostate-specific antigen (PSA), and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) were evaluated in 82 patients with prostate cancer and 26 patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). These markers were measured serially in 16 prostate cancer patients during treatment. The serum levels of PICP, ICTP, ALP, and PSA were significantly higher in prostate cancer patients with bone metastasis than in patients with either BPH or prostate cancer without bone metastasis. Although the rate of detection of bone metastasis with PICP and ICTP was slightly lower than that with PSA determined by the receiver operating characteristic curve, the correlation between both PICP and ICTP and the extent of disease was much higher than that of PSA. PICP and ICTP levels varied with ALP and PSA levels, the patient's clinical course after the start of endocrine therapy and the progression of bone metastasis. The levels of PICP and ICTP did not change substantially in patients who developed local regrowth or lymph node metastasis, and decreased as bone metastases responded to radiotherapy. PICP and ICTP thus reflect the metastatic burden in bone and are useful for monitoring the response of bone metastasis to therapy.
Recurrence of head and neck cancer after surgery or irradiation: prospective comparison of 2-deoxy-2-[F-18]fluoro-D-glucose PET and MR imaging diagnoses.	To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of positron emission tomography (PET) with administration of 2-deoxy-2-[fluorine-18]fluoro-D-glucose (FDG) relative to that of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and/or computed tomography (CT) in recurrent head and neck cancers.
Renal artery stenosis: endovascular flow wire study for validation of Doppler US.	To compare the accuracy of proximal and peripheral Doppler parameters for detection of renal artery stenosis (RAS).
Small hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with chronic liver damage: prospective comparison of detection with dynamic MR imaging and helical CT of the whole liver.	To compare contrast material-enhanced dynamic magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with helical computed tomography (CT) for the detection of small hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in patients with chronic liver damage.
Detection of subtle interstitial abnormalities of the lungs on digitized chest radiographs: acceptable data compression ratios.	To determine acceptable compression ratios for digital radiography, we evaluated the effect of data compression on the detection of subtle interstitial lung abnormalities using digitized chest radiographs.
Nuclear medicine and mathematics.	The purpose of this review is not to present a comprehensive description of all the mathematical tools used in nuclear medicine, but to emphasize the importance of the mathematical method in nuclear medicine and to elucidate some of the mathematical concepts currently used. We can distinguish three different areas in which mathematical support has been offered to nuclear medicine: physiology, methodology and data processing. Nevertheless, the boundaries between these areas can be indistinct. It is impossible in a single article to give even an idea of the extent and complexity of the procedures currently used in nuclear medicine, such as image processing, reconstruction from projections and artificial intelligence. These disciplines do not belong to nuclear medicine: they are already branches of engineering, and my interest will reside simply in revealing a little of the elegance and the fantastic potential of these new "allies" of nuclear medicine. In this review the mathematics of physiological interpretation and methodology are considered together in the same section. General aspects of data-processing methods, including image processing and artificial intelligence, are briefly analysed. The mathematical tools that are most often used to assist the interpretation of biological phenomena in nuclear medicine are considered; these include convolution and deconvolution methods, Fourier analysis, factorial analysis and neural networking.
Muscular disorders in tension-type headache.	In order to evaluate the diagnostic criteria for muscular disorders in tension-type headache, pericranial muscle tenderness and pressure pain thresholds were studied in a random sample population of 735 adults aged 25-64. In addition, quantitative EMGs were recorded in 547 of these subjects. The correlation between the three diagnostic tests was assessed and the discriminality and cut-off points were analysed using Receiver Operating Characteristics analysis. Local tenderness from the temporal muscles was closely related to the total tenderness scores from 14 pairs of muscles. In chronic tension-type headache, tenderness was positively related to EMG and inversely related to pain thresholds. In the episodic from the total tenderness score was inversely related to pain thresholds, whereas no significant relation to EMG was noted. The Receiver Operating Characteristics curves indicated that tenderness recorded by manual palpation was the most specific and sensitive test, whereas EMG and pain thresholds were of limited diagnostic value. Eighty-seven percent of subjects with the chronic, and 66% of subjects with the episodic form were found to have a "muscular disorder" defined as increased tenderness recorded by either manual palpation or pressure algometry and/or increased EMG levels. However, muscle tenderness increased significantly during pain, so the headache state should be considered in future studies. Suggestions for revision of the present diagnostic criteria for muscular disorders are given.
Evaluation of formulae for CSF IgG synthesis using data obtained from two methods: importance of receiver operator characteristic curve analysis.	To determine the clinical performance of three cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) IgG synthesis formulae using data obtained from two quantitation methods.
The optimum decision rules in the same-different paradigm.	In this paper we derive the optimum (likelihood-ratio) decision statistic for a same-different paradigm. The likelihood ratio is dependent on the degree of correlation between the two observations on each trial. For the two extreme cases in which the observations are either independent or highly correlated, the optimum decision rule is identical to each of two previously suggested decision rules. For these two cases, the receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves are calculated. Finally, an experimental procedure is suggested for assessing the decision rule actually used by the observer in a same-different task.
Cerebrospinal fluid soluble L-selectin (sCD62L) in meningoencephalitis.	The leucocyte adhesion molecule L-selectin (CD62L) is rapidly cleaved off proteolytically after cell activation, generating soluble L-selectin (sCD62L) molecules. sCD62L concentrations were determined in 185 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples obtained from children aged 1 month to 17 years. In 36 CSF samples of children with meningoencephalitis, sCD62L was significantly higher (median 209 fmol/ml) than in samples of children with other febrile diseases (n = 67, median 50 fmol/ml) or non-febrile disorders (n = 82, median 44 fmol/ml). There was a positive correlation between CSF protein and CSF sCD62L (rS = 0.68), suggesting that a disturbed blood-brain barrier contributes to raised sCD62L concentrations in the CSF. However, the CSF sCD62L/protein ratio of children with meningoencephalitis was significantly higher than in children with other febrile diseases or non-febrile disorders, indicating that sCD62L concentrations in children with meningoencephalitis were higher than expected from plasma leakage alone. It is concluded that both an impaired blood-brain barrier and the generation of sCD62L by infiltrating leucocytes contribute to raised CSF sCD62L concentrations in children with meningoencephalitis.
Prediction of early outcome in resolving chronic lung disease of prematurity after discharge from hospital.	In an attempt to identify those infants with resolving chronic lung disease of prematurity (CLD) at greatest risk of sudden infant death syndrome or acute life threatening event (SIDS/ALTE), or readmission to hospital following discharge, recordings of arterial oxygen saturation were made on 35 infants. Recordings were collected while the infants were breathing room air. Movement artefact was excluded and the data analysed to provide the mean individual arterial oxygen saturation (MSaO2), and the variability of the mean individual oxygen saturation (delta MSaO2). These data were related to clinical outcome recorded over the three months following investigation. A MSaO2 less than 90% on discharge predicted hospital admission within three months with a sensitivity of 1 and a specificity of 0.76, and SIDS/ALTE with a sensitivity of 1 and a specificity of 0.75. A delta MSaO2 greater than 6% predicted SIDS/ALTE with a sensitivity 0.88 and specificity of 1. Infants with resolving chronic lung disease of prematurity who are at risk of increased morbidity and mortality can be assessed by accurate measurement of mean arterial saturation.
Analytical performance and clinical validity of two free prostate-specific antigen assays compared.	We compared two recently introduced commercial assays (CanAg and Immulite) for measuring free prostate-specific antigen (f-PSA), total PSA (t-PSA), and the ratio of t-PSA/f-PSA (f-PSA%) in control materials and sera of 54 healthy men, 50 patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), and 45 patients with prostate cancer (PCa). The lower detection limits for f-PSA were 0.038 microgram/L and 0.004 microgram/L for the CanAg and Immulite assays, respectively. The within-run and between-day precisions of the Immulite assay were < 5%; the CanAg assay showed a poorer precision. Whereas f-PSA values differed between controls and patients but not between BPH and PCa patients, the f-PSA% values were lower in PCa patients than in BPH patients and controls. The receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve showed an improved diagnostic power of f-PSA% compared with t-PSA to discriminate between BPH and PCa. Discrimination limits of 16% (CanAg assay), and 15% (Immulite assay) are recommended for f-PSA%.
Cross-validation of the Delirium Rating Scale in older patients.	To cross-validate the Delirium Rating Scale (DRS).
Clinical significance of urinary free dopamine as a marker of renal function]	Urinary free dopamine (DA) is derived from DA synthesized or converted from circulating DOPA in renal proximal tubules, and plays an important role for diuresis and natriuresis. As plasma free DA is in tiny amounts near detectable range, a large amount of free DA in urine is tubular origin, but not from circulating DA. In the present study, we hypothesized that urinary free dopamine (U-f-DA) can be used as the marker of renal function. We speculated that U-f-DA may decrease in the damage of renal tubules or renal disorder. To evaluate clinical significance of U-f-DA, we used serum creatinine levels as the index of renal function. As the urinary parameter of renal function, we measured U-f-DA, alpha(1)-microglobulin (U-alpha(1) MG), beta(2)-microglobulin (U-beta(2)MG) and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (U-NAG) in spot urine samples of 154 outpatients (male; 76, female; 78). Each values are rectified by creatinine (Cr) concentration in urine. U-f-DA was negatively correlated with the serum level of creatinine, U-alpha(1)MG and U-beta(2)MG. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was used for their comparison in evaluation of urinary marker of renal function. In this analysis, area under the curve (AUC) of U-f-DA is best among other markers of renal function. AUC of U-f-DA/Cr, U-alpha(1)MG/Cr, U-beta(2)MG/Cr, U-NAG/Cr were 0.82, 0.57, 0.72, 0.62 in male, 0.92, 0.72, 0.81, 0.57 in female, respectively. These results suggest that the measurement of U-f-DA is superior marker of renal function to the determination of U-alpha(1)MG, U-beta(2)MG and U-NAG.
Electron beam tomography in cost effective diagnosis of coronary heart disease]	Electron beam CT (EBCT) can acquire rapid, multiple thin-section tomograms of the beating heart in synchrony with the electrocardiogram and quantity coronary calcification without intravenous contrast. Coronary calcification is an active process exclusively associated with atherosclerotic plaque formation and regulated in a manner similar to the calcification of bone. Clinical studies have demonstrated that EBCT coronary calcification (1) follows a pattern similar to the epidemiology of coronary artery disease (CAD), (2) has a high sensitivity (90-95%) for coronary plaque and significant angiographic coronary stenoses, and (3) has the potential to assess the prognosis of patients with coronary atherosclerotic disease. Coronary calcium area or "score" correlates best with overall plaque burden within the coronary system. However, coronary calcium is of limited value in distinguishing coronary stenosis on a segment-by-segment basis.
Antinuclear antibody testing. A study of clinical utility.	To determine the clinical utility of the antinuclear antibody (ANA) test as ordered in a large teaching hospital.
Color Doppler sonography of peripheral and cerebral fetal vessels in comparison as prognostic criterion in predicting intrauterine distress]	Doppler sonography of the fetal descending aorta, renal artery, middle cerebral artery and umbilical artery in a population of 74 fetuses with a abdominal circumference below the fifth percentile of the reference limits were done. All fetuses were free from structural and chromosomal abnormalities. The pulsatility- and the resistance indices as well as the ratios between these indices from peripheral and cerebral vessels were calculated and correlated to the fetal distress. The measurement of the pulsatility index of the middle cerebral artery provided the best results in predicting the development of fetal distress. Better results were achieved by the use of ratios of pulsatility-indices of various vessels than by the examination of the vessels alone. Our results suggest the usefulness of the examination of the middle cerebral artery and their ratios compared to the renal artery.
Low-grade transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder: application of select cytologic criteria to improve diagnostic accuracy [corrected].	The cytologic diagnosis of low-grade transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder is difficult, and the reported sensitivity of a positive diagnosis ranges from 0 to 73%. Using regression analysis, our laboratory previously reported the criteria of increased nuclear/cytoplasmic ratios, irregular nuclear membranes, and cytoplasmic homogeneity as indicative of low-grade transitional cell carcinoma. To examine the validity of these criteria, six observers examined 88 bladder-wash specimens (39 transitional cell carcinomas and 49 benign) and, using the selected criteria, graded each wash for the probability of malignancy. Diagnostic accuracy was measured using the receiver operating characteristic curve and the likelihood ratio. Overall observer accuracy was 76%, the sensitivity of a definitive negative diagnosis was 82%, and the specificity of a definitive positive diagnosis was 96%. We conclude that key cytologic criteria can be learned and effectively applied with high accuracy. Observer variation in diagnostic categories might reflect different confidence levels and probabilities of transitional cell carcinoma.
A critical assessment of clinical diagnosis of disc herniation in patients with monoradicular sciatica.	The diagnostic power or clinical parameters in the diagnosis of lumbar disc herniation in patients with monoradicular pain was evaluated in a prospective study with a 100% verification of the diagnosis. Eighty patients with monoradicular pain corresponding to the fifth lumbar or the first sacral nerve root were included. Pre-operatively a number of clinical parameters were recorded and compared to the intra-operative finding of a disc herniation. The parameters were analysed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Results from the available literature were analysed by ROC curves for comparison. In 76% of the cases a disc herniation was discovered. The level of the disc herniation was correctly predicted in 93% of these cases by the location of the pain alone or supplemented by neurological signs. Apart from radicularly distributed pain, all parameters in the present study and in the literature had no or low diagnostic accuracy. Thus, in patients with monoradicular sciatica further clinical parameters do not add to the diagnosis of lumbar disc herniation.
Quantitative analysis of clinical usefulness of CRT monitor diagnosis by using previous and current chest images with simulated lung nodules]	We quantitatively evaluated the clinical usefulness of CRT diagnosis by using previous and current chest images with simulated lung nodules. Sixty normal chest X-ray films consisting of previous and current chest images were digitized. Simulated nodules prepared by a computer workstation were added on lung fields of the 30 current images. Observer performance tests were carried out with six radiologists to evaluate the detection of simulated lung nodules in CRT and hard copy film with previous and current images, and with only current films. ROC analyses indicated that the detection accuracy in CRT diagnosis with current and previous images was greater than that in CRT diagnosis with only a current image. In addition, there was no statistically significant difference between CRT and hard copy film diagnoses if current and previous images were employed for the diagnosis of simulated lung nodules. We believe that CRT diagnosis is as useful as hard copy film diagnosis for the evaluation of pulmonary nodules by using previous and current chest images.
Evaluation of a new rapid quantitative D-dimer assay in patients with clinically suspected deep vein thrombosis.	The sensitivity and specificity for deep vein thrombosis (DVT) of a new rapid, quantitative and precise (total imprecision < 10%) D-dimer assay suitable for individual measurements (VIDAS D-DIMER, bio-Mrieux, France) were evaluated in a consecutive series of 103 in- and out-patients submitted to serial compression ultrasonography (C-US) for the clinical suspicion of DVT (n = 66) or of DVT recurrence (n = 37) and symptoms lasting from 1 to 15 days. DVT was found in 22 patients at baseline testing and no patient with an initially negative C-US developed vein incompressibility at follow up. The time elapsed from the onset of symptoms was negatively associated with D-dimer levels both in patients with and in those without DVT. In the entire series of patients, the sensitivity of a positive D-dimer test ( > or = 1.0 microgram/ml) for the presence of DVT was 96% (21/22 patients, 95% confidence interval 75-100%) with a specificity of 75% (64-84%), a negative predictive value of 98% (90-100%), a positive predictive value of 51% (35-67%), and an overall accuracy of 80% (70-87%). A normal D-dimer value (0.22 microgram/ml) was observed in one patient with DVT and symptoms lasting from 15 days. The approach of withholding C-US testing in patients with symptoms lasting from less than 11 days and D-dimer levels below the cut-off value was compared to serial C-US testing alone in a cost-effectiveness analysis subdividing the 66 patients with a first episode according to their clinical pretest probability of DVT. Thrombosis was detected in 6.7% of the patients in the low probability group (n = 15), 16.7% of the patients in the moderate probability group (n = 24), 51.9% of the patients in the high probability group (n = 27) and 8.1% of patients with suspected DVT recurrence. Calculated cost-savings for each DVT diagnosed ranged from 5% in the high pretest probability group to 55% in the low pretest probability group and to 77% in patients with suspected DVT recurrence. The safety of avoiding C-US testing in symptomatic patients with a negative D-dimer test should be evaluated in clinical management studies.
The effect of disease-prevalence adjustments on the accuracy of a logistic prediction model.	The accuracy of a logistic prediction model is degraded when it is transported to populations with outcome prevalences different from that of the population used to derive the model. The resultant errors can have major clinical implications. Accordingly, the authors developed a logistic prediction model with respect to the noninvasive diagnosis of coronary disease based on 1,824 patients who underwent exercise testing and coronary angiography, varied the prevalence of disease in various "test" populations by random sampling of the original "derivation" population, and determined the accuracy of the logistic prediction model before and after the application of a mathematical algorithm designed to adjust only for these differences in prevalence. The accuracy of each prediction model was quantified in terms of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve area (discrimination) and chi-square goodness-of-fit (calibration). As the prevalence of the test population diverged from the prevalence of the derivation population, discrimination improved (ROC-curve areas increased from 0.82 +/- 0.02 to 0.87 +/- 0.03; p < 0.05), and calibration deteriorated (chi-square goodness-of-fit statistics increased from 9 to 154; p < 0.05). Following adjustment of the logistic intercept for differences in prevalence, discrimination was unchanged and calibration improved (maximum chi-square goodness-of-fit fell from 154 to 16). When the adjusted algorithm was applied to three geographically remote populations with prevalences that differed from that of the derivation population, calibration improved 87%, while discrimination fell by 1%. Thus, prevalence differences produce statistically significant and potentially clinically important errors in the accuracy of logistic prediction models. These errors can potentially be mitigated by use of a relatively simple mathematical correction algorithm.
Statistical comparison of ROC curves from multiple readers.	Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis is the commonly accepted method for comparing diagnostic imaging systems. In general, ROC studies are designed in such a way that multiple readers read the same images and each image is presented by means of two different imaging systems. Statistical methods for the comparison of the ROC curves from one reader have been developed, but extension of these methods to multiple readers is not straightforward. A new method of analysis is presented for the comparison of ROC curves from multiple readers. This method includes a non-parametric estimation of the variances and covariances between the various areas under the curves. The method described is more appropriate than the paired t test, because it also takes the case-sample variation into account.
The symptom questionnaire for benign prostatic hyperplasia: an ambiguous indicator for an ambiguous disease.	To assess the criterion validity of the American Urological Association (AUA) symptom index for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in urological practice.
Subjective quality assessment of computed radiography hand images.	To evaluate the sensitivity of a non-receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) study in assessing small differences of perceived image quality of hand images acquired by computed radiography (CR) and conventional screen-film systems, hand images were acquired on 12 patients with both conventional screen-film and CR. Each CR image was then processed with three different edge-enhancement algorithms. One conventional film and four CR images were then viewed side by side by five radiologists. Observers rated perceived image quality of each radiograph using a 10-category discrete scale. The study was repeated after 6 weeks using a different block randomization scheme. Despite the small sample size, significant differences (P < .05) in assigned image quality were detected among CR images acquired at low, medium, and high resolutions. Image processing routines did not fully compensate for differences in quality between conventional film and CR-acquired images. The quality rating of the reference conventional image was found to be dependent on the quality of images with which it was compared. Small, highly sensitive study designs can be used to identify radiologists' perceived differences in image quality. "Reference" or "gold standard" quality are important in such studies. Edge-enhancement schemes cannot fully compensate for perceived image quality degradations because of reduced image resolution.
Detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in respiratory specimens by strand displacement amplification of DNA.	A total of 294 clinical respiratory specimens, including 75 with culture-positive results, were tested for the presence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis by strand displacement amplification (SDA) of DNA. A region of the IS6110 insertion element and an internal control sequence were amplified and then detected by a chemiluminescence assay. Receiver operator-characteristic curves were used to evaluate three methods for declaring specimens positive for M. tuberculosis. By the preferred method, SDA chemiluminescence results were converted to theoretical numbers of M. tuberculosis organisms. A positive threshold (PT) value, above which 95% of the SDA results were judged to be M. tuberculosis positive (sensitivity = 95%), was found to be 2.4 M. tuberculosis organisms per SDA reaction. The analogous PT value for 95% sensitivity on smear-positive specimens was 3.6 M. tuberculosis organisms per reaction. The PT of 2.4 M. tuberculosis organisms per reaction detected 100% of culture-positive, smear-positive specimens (sensitivity = 100%), while 95% sensitivity was achieved with a PT of 15.5 M. tuberculosis organisms per reaction. Specificities, which were calculated with respect to culture- and smear-negative specimens, ranged from 96% at a PT of 15.5 M. tuberculosis organisms to 84% at a PT of 2.4 M. tuberculosis organisms per reaction. The M. tuberculosis-negative specimens were also segregated according to whether the patients received antituberculosis chemotherapy. SDA specificity ranged from 90% (PT = 2.4 M. tuberculosis organisms) to 98% (PT = 15.5 M. tuberculosis organisms) for the M. tuberculosis-negative specimens from patients who had not received chemotherapy. SDA specificity in the M. tuberculosis-negative specimens from patients who received chemotherapy was lower (85 to 94%). This study represents the first large-scale demonstration of M. tuberculosis detection in clinical sputum specimens by isothermal DNA amplification with SDA.
Texture analysis of ultrasonic images of the prostate by means of co-occurrence matrices.	As speckle on ultrasonic B-scan may reveal information relative to tissue structure, the present work attempts to discriminate the various prostatic tissues (normal tissue, benign prostatic hypertrophy and cancer) by means of texture analysis. We select regions of interest by their homogeneous appearance. A pre-processing stage is required to obtain stationary samples. The method used measures the second-order statistics, namely co-occurrence matrices. Fairly good tissue signatures have been obtained with parameters derived from these matrices. Of 37 images processed, 78 percent of the samples were classified with success, which is a high score considering that the images cannot be discriminated visually. However, while such results are obtained when wide regions of interest are investigated (64 x 64 pixels), they are not as good with smaller sample sizes, i.e., when the pathological area is very small.
Use of receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) curve analysis to evaluate predictors of response to clomipramine therapy.	We used receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) curve analysis to evaluate predictors of response to clomipramine in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Previously, we identified response predictors among 230 OCD patients who received clomipramine in a placebo-controlled, multicenter clinical trail. We found that at baseline a later age of OCD onset, low scores on the Hamilton Depression scale, and high scores on items 3 and 8 of the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale predicted good response. Certain early side effects also predicted outcome. We fitted a logistic regression model containing baseline information and then calculated each patient's estimated response probability by substituting individuals' values in the regression equation. Next we compared the estimated response risks with each patient's known outcome. Finally, we produced a ROC curve by plotting the true positive and false positive rates for various cutoff points of the risk scores. The same steps were followed for Weeks 1 through 4, adding information about early side effects and weekly response. We found that baseline information predicted outcome better than chance, and predictive ability increased with data on side effects and early response.
Quantitative ultrasonic diagnosis of silicone breast implant rupture: an in vitro feasibility study.	Ultrasound is useful in evaluating the integrity of silicone breast implants. However, extensive operator experience is required. A system for computer-assisted diagnosis is being developed to reduce operator dependence. Feasibility was examined by measuring the ultrasonic properties of breast implants in vitro. Silicone gels from 45 explanted implants (26 intact and 19 ruptured) were placed in sealed acoustic test chambers and 60 RF A-lines were acquired from each. Velocity of sound, attenuation and integrated backscatter (IB) were estimated. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed. The mean speed of sound was 1060 m/s +/- 50.1 m/s in intact implants and 1115 m/s +/- 74.3 m/s in ruptured ones (p < 0.003). Differences in attenuation were not statistically significant. The mean IB was -83.9 dB +/- 7.94 dB in intact and -77.2 dB +/- 9.07 dB in ruptured implants (p < 0.006). The area under the ROC curve (Az) was 0.70 and 0.73 for IB and velocity, respectively, while combining the two yielded Az = 0.81. Changes in speed of sound and IB, with changes in integrity of breast implants, have been demonstrated in vitro. The results indicate the potential for quantitative assessment of silicone breast implants performed in vivo.
Decompression illness in sports divers detected with technetium-99m-HMPAO SPECT and texture analysis.	Diving for sport and recreation has increased in recent years, resulting in more incidences of diving illness. Therefore, we studied potential use of regional cerebral blood flow SPECT imaging with 99mTc-HMPAO in the management of divers who have experienced decompression illness (DCI).
Effect of region of interest location on ultrasound measurements of the calcaneus.	Ultrasound (US) measurements of the calcaneus are usually carried out in a region of interest (ROI) at a fixed site relative to a footplate. Recently, US transmission systems have been developed with imaging capability that enable selection of the position of ROI; the region of measurement is always the area of minimum attenuation in the posterior part of the calcaneus. This study compares measurements of broadband ultrasound attenuation (BUA) and speed of sound (SOS) at the variable ROI of minimum attenuation (ROIv) and at fixed coordinates (ROIf). Ultrasound variables were estimated at ROIv and ROIf in 212 female subjects, including 26 patients with osteoporotic fractures. Among the 186 women without fractures, 63 were classified as having osteoporosis on the basis of their vertebral bone density. Precision of BUA and SOS were better at ROIv than at ROIf. BUA was more highly correlated with bone mineral density (BMD) at the lumbar spine and femoral neck at ROIv than ROIf (r = 0.64 for lumbar spine and 0.68 for femoral neck at ROIv versus 0.50 for lumbar spine and 0.54 for femoral neck at ROIf, P < 0.05 for both comparisons). There were no significant differences between the correlations of SOS with axial BMD at ROIv compared with ROIf. Significant difference was found between the areas under the ROC curve for each ultrasound variable at ROIv and ROIf for both groups of patients, subjects with osteoporosis (area under curve = 0.87 for BUA at ROIv versus 0.82 at ROIf, P < 0.05; area under curve = 0.85 for SOS at ROIv versus 0.81 at ROIf, P < 0. 05), and women with fractures (area under curve = 0.93 for BUA at ROIv versus 0.86 at ROIf, P < 0.05; area under curve = 0.91 for SOS at ROIv versus 0.82 at ROIf, P < 0.05). Ultrasound variables measured at ROIv enable improved reproducibility and significantly better differentiation of diseased subjects from healthy individuals as compared with measurements at ROIf.
Diagnostic value of ST depression corrected for heart rate in the post-exercise recovery period]	This study assessed the diagnostic value of two new electrocardiographic criteria of coronary artery disease: the ST/HR index and the slope of the linear relationship between ST segment changes and the heart rate during the first three minutes of the post-exercise recovery period. These two criteria were compared to the standard criteria (> or = 1 mm horizontal or descending ST depression or > or = 2 mm ascending ST depression) to Detrano's ST/HR exercise index (> 1.6 microV/bpm in coronary patient), the exercise ST/HR slope (> or = 2.4 microV/bpm in coronary patients) and the exercise recovery loop (clockwise in normal and anticlockwise in coronary patients) in 88 subjects investigated for suspected coronary artery disease who underwent a computerised exercise stress test and coronary angiography (25 single vessel, 21 double vessel, 20 triple vessel disease; 22 with no significant coronary disease). The ROC identified thresholds of abnormality of the ST/HR recovery index at > or = 2.1 microV/bpm and of the ST/HR recovery slope at > or = 2.52 microV/bpm. Global comparison of the areas under the ROC showed the diagnostic superiority of the exercise ST/HR indices (0.96) over the standard criteria (0.92) and recovery indices (0.86) but without statistically significant values (p = 0.65 and p = 0.15 respectively). The ST/HR index and slope during recovery identify coronary disease with a diagnostic accuracy of 80% and 77% respectively which is similar to that (84%) of the standard ST criteria. The exercise-recovery loop was less accurate (64%).
Monte Carlo validation of a multireader method for receiver operating characteristic discrete rating data: factorial experimental design.	The authors conducted a series of null-case Monte Carlo simulations to evaluate the Dorfman-Berbaum-Metz (DBM) method for comparing modalities with multireader receiver operating characteristic (ROC) discrete rating data.
Perceptual skill, radiology expertise, and visual test performance with NINA and WALDO.	The goal of this study was to determine if radiologists possess superior visual search and analysis skills compared with those of laypeople.
Detectability of simulated masses and calcifications in mammography. Development of a phantom and a new method for determination of receiver operating characteristics.	To develop a method for receiver operating characteristics (ROC) studies in mammography.
Assessment of image quality and total performance in Norwegian mammography laboratories. Findings in a national survey based on different phantoms and ROC methodology.	To assess the image quality at different mammography laboratories.
Diagnosis of renovascular disease by extra- and intrarenal Doppler parameters.	It is still a matter of debate as to which parameters should be used for noninvasive diagnosis of renovascular disease by renal Doppler sonography (RDS). The accuracy of RDS in the detection of renal artery stenosis (RAS) was tested in 95 consecutive, moderate to severe hypertensive patients (I-II World Health Organization [WHO] stages). Reno-aortic ratio (RAR) for peak systolic velocity (PSV) was also calculated to assist in the diagnosis of significant (>50%) RAS. Paired receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was plotted for evaluating the relationship between sensitivity and specificity for each parameter. In a subset of 57 kidneys, the influence of blood pressure and age on intraparenchymal parameters was evaluated. Measurements of maximal peak systolic velocity (PSV) at the site of stenosis, RAR for PSV, and minimum acceleration index in the main renal artery showed high accuracy (areas under the ROC curve 0.97, 0.88, and 0.80, respectively). Among intraparenchymal parameters, early systolic acceleration showed the best area under the ROC curve (0.90), but provided a low positive predictive value (29%) and was significantly influenced by blood pressure (multiple r=0.56; p=0.001). Pulsatility and resistive indices were found to be less powerful as absolute values, and both significantly influenced by blood pressure and age (multiple r=0.60 and 0.50; p=0.001, p=0.02, respectively). However, interindividual variance of intrarenal indices should be minimized by calculation of side difference, although this procedure would become misleading or impossible in patients with bilateral RAS or a single kidney, respectively. These results support the use of extraparenchymal parameters for noninvasive detection of RAS, and emphasize that intrarenal parameters cannot be considered as absolute values.
The CAMCOG: a useful screening instrument for dementia in stroke patients.	Most mental screening tests focus on the detection of cognitive deficits compatible with Alzheimer's disease. Stroke patients who develop a dementia syndrome, however, constitute a more heterogeneous group with both cortical and subcortical disturbances. We assessed the diagnostic accuracy of the CAMCOG (the cognitive and self-contained part of the Cambridge Examination for Mental Disorders of the Elderly) and the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) for dementia in patients with a recent stroke.
Interleukin-1beta and interleukin-8 in cervicovaginal fluid during pregnancy.	We investigated the usefulness of cervicovaginal interleukin-1beta and interleukin-8 levels during pregnancy as markers of preterm and term parturition.
Comparison of transesophageal Doppler methods with angiography for evaluation of the severity of mitral regurgitation.	Doppler evaluation of mitral regurgitation remains difficult; thus, a head-to-head comparison of the diagnostic accuracy of Doppler methods was undertaken. Fifty patients with native mitral regurgitation underwent multiplane transesophageal echocardiography within 5 days of catheterization. Angiographic grade of mitral regurgitation and, in 20 patients with grade II-IV regurgitation, invasively determined regurgitant stroke volume were compared with color Doppler area, regurgitant jet diameter, ratio of systolic to diastolic peak pulmonary venous flow velocities, and (based on the proximal convergence zone) maximal regurgitant flow rate and regurgitant orifice area. Rank correlation coefficients of angiographic grade with Doppler parameters were 0.61 for color jet area, -0.61 for pulmonary venous flow velocity ratio, 0.69 for color jet diameter, 0.79 for maximal regurgitant flow rate, and 0.78 for regurgitant orifice area (all P < .01). Convergence zone-based parameters also correlated best (r=0.73) with invasively determined regurgitant stroke volume. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis confirmed higher diagnostic accuracy for proximal jet width and proximal convergence zone parameters than for color jet area or pulmonary venous flow velocity ratio. Proximal convergence zone parameters and proximal color jet diameter best distinguished severe from mild forms of mitral regurgitation.
Myocardial Doppler velocity imaging--a quantitative technique for interpretation of dobutamine echocardiography.	Myocardial Doppler velocity (MDV) imaging was evaluated as a quantitative method for interpretation of dobutamine echocardiography by comparison with regional wall motion abnormalities in 70 patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease. Ischemic segments had the lowest increment of systolic MDV from rest to peak dose, and using a peak MDV of <12 cm/s to define an abnormal response, the sensitivity and specificity of MDV for ischemia was 86% and 96% for basal segments, and 81% and 89% for mid segments.
Value of beat-to-beat blood pressure changes, detected by pulse transit time, in the management of the obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome.	Two important aspects of a respiratory sleep study are a measure of inspiratory effort and an estimate of the number of arousals. These can be derived from an indirect estimate of beat-to-beat blood pressure (BP), pulse transit time (PTT). This study investigated the reproducibility of inspiratory BP falls (reflecting inspiratory effort), and BP arousals derived from PTT, and the contribution they could make to the management of the obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome (OSAHS). Overnight PTT was recorded at home in 40 patients being investigated for OSAHS, and a second PTT recording was made in the sleep laboratory with full polysomnography. Patients were divided into three groups according to the severity of their sleep disorder, and a third PTT recording was made at home in 13 patients subsequently established on nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). The reproducibility between the home and laboratory studies was reasonable (r=0.87 for inspiratory BP falls, r=0.81 for BP arousals). Both derivatives showed a clear progression through the three patient groups, which returned to normal on treatment. The differences between the groups were significant (p<0.001 for inspiratory BP falls, p=0.0014 for BP arousals). Receiver operator characteristic curves, used to compare polysomnography variables and PTT variables, confirmed that the PTT variables were as good as apnoea-hypopnoea index (AHI), >4% arterial oxygen saturation dip rate and electroencephalography micro-arousals at dividing patients into two groups, either requiring nasal CPAP or not requiring CPAP. Pulse transit time can provide a noninvasive estimate of inspiratory effort and a measure of arousals that together document disease severity and response to treatment and may be useful in managing obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome.
Unenhanced helical CT of ureteral stones: a replacement for excretory urography in planning treatment.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether unenhanced helical CT alone can be used for diagnosis and treatment planning of patients with obstructing ureteral stones.
Imaging of oncologic patients: benefit of combined CT and FDG PET in the diagnosis of malignancy.	The purpose of this study was to assess the benefit of combined CT and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) in diagnosing malignancy.
The risk of a multiple myeloma in patients with paraproteinemia: a myeloma risk score developed in the region of the Comprehensive Cancer Center West]	Diagnoses in patients with paraproteinaemia are diverse; few (mostly single centre based) studies are known that describe incidence, diagnoses and follow-up in patients with paraproteinaemia. In the region of the Comprehensive Cancer Centre West in the Netherlands (population 1.6 million, 1992) a population-based registry was set up in the period 1991-1993. Patients (n = 1464; median age: 72 years; range: 16-102) were entered by clinical chemists, internists, haematologists, and pathologists. Multiple myeloma and plasmacytoma were diagnosed in 261 patients (18%), paraprotein-related haematological diseases in 159 patients (11%) and paraprotein-related internal diseases in 210 patients (14%). After bone marrow examination monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance (MGUS) was diagnosed in 207 (14%) patients. No further diagnosis could be made in 627 (43%) patients mostly for lack of supplementary bone marrow and (or) X-ray examinations. Consequently, more than two-thirds of all patients with a newly found paraprotein did not show any sign of a haematological malignancy. Using these data a 'myeloma risk score' was developed to predict the presence of a multiple myeloma based on paraprotein type and concentration, aiding the physician in determining which patients should undergo further bone marrow and skeletal examinations.
Artificial neural network for predicting intracranial haemorrhage in preterm neonates.	Intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH) incidence is used to assess peri-/neonatal therapy, and to make intra- and inter-hospital quality assessments. Unbiased assessment is complicated by the amount of confounding factors. Is an artificial neural network (ANN) able to early and accurately forecast the occurrence of severe IVH in an individual patient? Is it superior to classic multiple logistic regression? We conducted an observational study on pre-existing routine data. Admission data were available from 890 preterm neonates (gestational age < 32 weeks, birthweight < 1500 g). Patients were randomly assigned to either a training, or a validation set (50%/50%). Using the training set data an ANN was trained. A second predictive model was developed by stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis. Using the validation set input data both models delivered estimates of the probability for severe IVH to occur in each individual patient. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to compare prognostic performance. The optimal ANN processed 13 input variables, whereas stepwise logistic regression analysis only identified five independent predictor variables. The area under the ROC curve was 0.935 for the ANN and 0.884 for the logistic regression model (p = 0.001). Adjusted for 95%, 90%, 85%, 80% and 75% specificity, the sensitivity of the ANN was significantly superior to that of the logistic regression model. Due to its ability to give an accurate prognosis based solely on admission data, a trained ANN qualifies as a tool for local quality control.
Comparative evaluation of sialylated carbohydrate antigens, KL-6, CA19-9 and SLX as serum markers for interstitial pneumonia.	We compared diagnostic values of three serum carbohydrate antigens, KL-6, CA19-9 and SLX to discriminate interstitial pneumonia (IP) from alveolar pneumonia and healthy volunteers. Subjects consisted of 13 patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and 10 associated with collagen vascular diseases, 12 patients with sarcoidosis and 70 controls (52 healthy volunteers and 18 patients with alveolar pneumonia). Cut-off values were determined at the level at which the diagnostic accuracy became the highest for each marker, 449 U/mL for KL-6, 26 U/mL for CA19-9 and 41 U/mL for SLX. The sensitivity, the specificity and the diagnostic accuracy were 74.3% (26/35), 98.6% (69/70) and 90.5% (95/105) in KL-6, 42.9% (15/35), 94.3% (66/70) and 77.1% (81/105) in CA19-9, and 20.0% (7/35) and 95.7% (67/70) and 70.5% (74/105) in SLX, respectively. Receiver operating characteristic curves revealed that KL-6 was far superior to both CA19-9 and SLX. These results suggest that KL-6 is the best marker for interstitial pneumonia among these carbohydrate antigens.
Right ventricular ejection fraction is an independent predictor of survival in patients with moderate heart failure.	We sought to study the relationship between survival and right ventricular ejection fraction (RVEF) in a subgroup of patients with moderate congestive heart failure (CHF).
Early predictive factors of survival in the acute respiratory distress syndrome. A multivariate analysis.	To identify the potential impact of novel therapeutic approaches, we studied the early predictive factors of survival at the onset of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) in a 24-bed medical ICU of an academic tertiary care hospital. Over a 48-mo period, a total of 3,511 adult patients were admitted and 259 mechanically ventilated patients met ARDS criteria, as defined by American-European consensus conference, i.e., bilateral pulmonary infiltrates and PaO2/FIO2 lower than 200 without left atrial hypertension. These patients were randomly included in a developmental sample (177 patients) and a validation sample (82 patients). Demographic variables, hemodynamic and respiratory parameters, underlying diseases, as well as several severity scores (SAPS, SAPS-II, OSF) and Lung Injury Score (LIS) were collected. These variables were compared between survivors and nonsurvivors and entered into a stepwise logistic regression model to evaluate their independent prognostic roles. The overall mortality rate was 65%. SAPS-II, the severity of the underlying medical conditions, the oxygenation index (mean airway pressure x FIO2 x 100/PaO2), the length of mechanical ventilation prior to ARDS, the mechanism of lung injury, cirrhosis, and occurrence of right ventricular dysfunction were independently associated with an elevated risk of death. Model calibration was very good in the developmental and validation samples (p = 0.84 and p = 0.72, respectively), as was model discrimination (area under the ROC curves of 0.95 and 0.92, respectively). Thus, the prognosis of ARDS seems to be related to the triggering risk factor, the severity of the respiratory illness, and the occurrence of a right ventricle dysfunction, after adjustment for a general severity score.
Pulmonary nodule detection: low-dose versus conventional CT.	To quantitate the effectiveness of low-dose computed tomography (CT) in the identification of pulmonary nodules while controlling for anatomic nodule characteristics and to establish what factors lead to reduced diagnostic sensitivity at low-dose CT.
Hospital mortality after urgent and emergency laparotomy in patients aged 65 yr and over. Risk and prediction of risk using multiple logistic regression analysis.	We studied 107 patients aged over 65 years undergoing urgent or emergency laparotomy. Aspects of preoperative assessment, perioperative management and postoperative care were analysed by multiple logistic regression to determine the factors that predicted hospital survival. We determined which factors influenced anaesthetists' prediction that patients would survive. These predictions were made both before and immediately after operation. The factors associated with the use of invasive cardiovascular monitoring were also studied. We obtained a model that accounted for 93% of the variability in the likelihood of survival. Age and ASA status were significant predictors of survival (P < 0.05), and of anaesthetists' prediction of mortality both before and after operation. Several other factors were significant determinants of survival but were not determinants of the anaesthetist's opinion regarding survival.
Evaluation of respiratory artifact correction techniques in multishot spiral functional MRI using receiver operator characteristic analyses.	Navigator corrections and low-spatial frequency (LSF) oversampling are investigated as methods for reducing respiration-related effects in multishot functional MRI. Both techniques take advantage of the smoothly varying or nearly constant phase variations linked to the respiration cycle. These techniques were tested in functional MRI studies with spiral k-space acquisitions. Receiver operator characteristic (ROC) analyses and the temporal variance averaged across the brain were used to evaluate their effectiveness. Both methods were found to increase the area under the ROC curve and to reduce the standard deviation, with the LSF oversampling method being more effective.
Receiver operating characteristic curves of transvaginal Doppler blood flow measurements in benign and malignant adnexal tumors.	The role of receiver operating characteristic curves of transvaginal Doppler velocimetry in predicting malignancy was evaluated in 80 patients with benign and 40 patients with malignant adnexal tumors. The mean values of peak systolic velocity did not differ significantly. Malignant tumors had a significantly higher end diastolic velocity and mean flow velocity than benign tumors. Benign tumors had a significantly higher ratio of peak systolic to end diastolic velocity, pulsatility index, and resistive index than malignant tumors. The diagnostic accuracies in predicting malignancy were as follows: peak systolic velocity, 62%; end diastolic velocity, 79%; ratio of peak systolic to end diastolic velocity, 63%; mean flow velocity, 73%; pulsatility index, 91%; resistive index, RI 92%. Doppler velocimetry analysis allows us to predict the presence of malignancy with limited reliability.
Role of cardiac troponin I in the evaluation of myocardial injury.	Cardiac troponin I (cTnl) is highly specific for cardiac muscle. In this study, we compared the utility of CK and CK-MB index versus cTnl in the assessment of myocardial infarction in 155 patients being evaluated for myocardial damage. As a cardiac marker for MI, Troponin I seems to be superior to CK-MB. In the subset of patients with renal disease, cTnl has definite advantages over CK-MB. In addition, the use of cTnl has the potential to replace the measurement of lactate dehydrogenase isoenzymes.
D2 receptor imaging with iodine-123-iodobenzamide brain SPECT in infants with hypoxic-ischemic brain injury.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the striatal dopamine D2 receptor density in infants with perinatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury (HIBI) using 123I-iodobenzamide (IBZM) brain SPECT and to correlate the findings with the severity of HIBI and neurologic outcome.
Fractal analysis of mammographic lesions: a prospective, blinded trial.	Mammography has become the mainstay of breast cancer screening. However, widespread mammography has led to an increase of the number of breast biopsies done for benign disease. Therefore, a method to better discriminate benign from malignant lesions is needed. Fractal analysis is a mathematical method which can quantify complex shapes. It has been previously shown retrospectively that the composite fractal dimensions, D, of malignant mammographic masses is higher than for benign lesions. A prospective study of 75 patients who were recommended to undergo needle localized breast biopsy by independent radiologists had the composite D calculated. Fractal analysis was done without knowledge of the biopsy results. The mean composite D of malignant lesions was higher than benign lesions, 2.545+/-0.067 vs. 1.936+/-0.144 (p=0.00004). Calculation of a receiver-operating characteristic curve showed that a cutoff value of 2.067 had a 100% sensitivity and 63 % specificity (i.e., false positive rate of 37%). Mean D for fibroadenomas was 2.087+/-0.054, fibrocystic disease was 1.877+/-0.167, DCIS was 2.261+/-0.069, and invasive cancer was 2.634+/-0.039 (1-way ANOVA, p=0.00007). These data imply that fractal analysis may be beneficial in discriminating between benign and malignant lesions. However, further study in a larger number of patients with a variety of lesions is needed.
APACHE II and SAPS II are poorly calibrated in a Hong Kong intensive care unit.	This study seeks to determine if the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II) and the new Simplified Acute Physiology Score (SAPS II) model predictions are well calibrated in our adult Intensive Care Unit (ICU) patient population. 1064 successive ICU discharges were enrolled with 222 deaths at hospital discharge. APACHE II predicted 287.44 deaths, thus giving an APACHE II standardised mortality ratio (SMR) of 0.77 (95% confidence interval +/- 0.07). SAPS II predicted 269.59 deaths, giving a SAPS II SMR of 0.82 (95% confidence interval +/- 0.07). The Hosmer-Lemeshow goodness-of-fit C statistic was 43.96 for APACHE II and 49.06 for SAPS II (P < 0.001 for both, inferring significant departures from the null hypotheses of good calibration). The area under the Receiver Operating Characteristic plot for SAPS II risk of death was 0.87 (95% confidence interval +/- 0.028) while that for APACHE II risk of death was 0.88 (95% confidence interval +/- 0.026). Although the APACHE II and SAPS II models provide good discriminatory performance this study finds the APACHE II and SAPS II models to be poorly calibrated in that they over-predict mortality in our ICU population.
Use of a prognostic treadmill score in identifying diagnostic coronary disease subgroups.	Exercise testing is useful in the assessment of symptomatic patients for diagnosis of significant or extensive coronary disease and to predict their future risk of cardiac events. The Duke treadmill score (DTS) is a composite index that was designed to provide survival estimates based on results from the exercise test, including ST-segment depression, chest pain, and exercise duration. However, its usefulness for providing diagnostic estimates has yet to be determined.
Visual assessment of the accuracy of retrospective registration of MR and CT images of the brain.	In a previous study we demonstrated that automatic retrospective registration algorithms can frequently register magnetic resonance (MR) and computed tomography (CT) images of the brain with an accuracy of better than 2 mm, but in that same study we found that such algorithms sometimes fail, leading to errors of 6 mm or more. Before these algorithms can be used routinely in the clinic, methods must be provided for distinguishing between registration solutions that are clinically satisfactory and those that are not. One approach is to rely on a human observer to inspect the registration results and reject images that have been registered with insufficient accuracy. In this paper, we present a methodology for evaluating the efficacy of the visual assessment of registration accuracy. Since the clinical requirements for level of registration accuracy are likely to be application dependent, we have evaluated the accuracy of the observer's estimate relative to six thresholds: 1-6 mm. The performance of the observers was evaluated relative to the registration solution obtained using external fiducial markers that are screwed into the patient's skull and that are visible in both MR and CT images. This fiducial marker system provides the gold standard for our study. Its accuracy is shown to be approximately 0.5 mm. Two experienced, blinded observers viewed five pairs of clinical MR and CT brain images, each of which had each been misregistered with respect to the gold standard solution. Fourteen misregistrations were assessed for each image pair with misregistration errors distributed between 0 and 10 mm with approximate uniformity. For each misregistered image pair each observer estimated the registration error (in millimeters) at each of five locations distributed around the head using each of three assessment methods. These estimated errors were compared with the errors as measured by the gold standard to determine agreement relative to each of the six thresholds, where agreement means that the two errors lie on the same side of the threshold. The effect of error in the gold standard itself is taken into account in the analysis of the assessment methods. The results were analyzed by means of the Kappa statistic, the agreement rate, and the area of receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) curves. No assessment performed well at 1 mm, but all methods performed well at 2 mm and higher. For these five thresholds, two methods agreed with the standard at least 80% of the time and exhibited mean ROC areas greater than 0.84. One of these same methods exhibited Kappa statistics that indicated good agreement relative to chance (Kappa > 0.6) between the pooled observers and the standard for these same five thresholds. Further analysis demonstrates that the results depend strongly on the choice of the distribution of misregistration errors presented to the observers.
Soluble adhesion molecules correlate with liver inflammation and fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C treated with interferon-alpha.	In chronic hepatitis C the relation of circulating adhesion molecules to disease features before, during and after therapy has not been completely established.
Comparison of proliferation activity in breast carcinoma by flow cytometry analysis of S-phase and quantitative analysis of MIB-1.	The S-phase which assesses tumor proliferation has been considered to be an independent prognostic factor for breast carcinoma. Quantitative analysis of MIB-1 immunoreactivity is a newly recognized method of determining cellular proliferation that offers some advantages over flow cytometry when limited tumor tissue is available. However, it has been controversial whether there is a significant correlation between MIB-1 immunostaining and S-phase in defining proliferation activity in breast cancer. In order to explore the usefulness of MIB-1 as an additional proliferation parameter and a potential prognostic factor for breast cancer, we analyzed 94 cases of invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast by both flow cytometry (for S-phase and DNA ploidy) and quantitative MIB-1 immunohistochemical analysis using formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue. MIB-1 staining was quantitatively analyzed by image analysis and by visual scoring. Forty-six cases were diploid by flow, while the remaining 48 cases were aneuploid tumors. T-test results indicated that S-phase means were significantly greater (p = 0.0001) in aneuploid cases (mean = 18) compared to diploid cases (mean = 7). MIB-1 means were also greater in aneuploid patients, but these differences were only marginally significant (p = 0.05). S-phase was positively correlated with MIB-1 (r = 0.36, p = 0.003 for image analysis and r = 0.34, p = 0.001 for visual scoring). ROC curve analysis indicated that MIB-1 quantitation is a good predictor of high S-phase (i.e., > 10 percent) in aneuploid cases. A MIB-1 cutoff value of 25 percent for image analysis achieved 82 percent specificity and 80 percent sensitivity for aneuploid high S-phase, while a MIB-1 cutoff value of 40 percent for visual scoring was 73 percent specific and 85 percent sensitive. However, in diploid cases, no comparable MIB-1 cutoffs could be achieved for detecting high S-phase. In summary, our study demonstrated that aneuploid breast carcinomas proliferate more aggressively than diploid tumors. Although linear correlation between MIB-1 and S-phase was weak, MIB-1 was considered to be a good predictor of high S-phase in aneuploid breast cancer patients, possibly due to a threshold effect. Image analysis and visual scoring of MIB-1 immunoreactivity appeared to be comparable in analyzing proliferative activity in breast cancer. Thus MIB-1 assessed by visual scoring may be a less expensive alternative to image analysis.
A risk model approach to the prediction of fetal acidemia.	Known risk factors for adverse perinatal outcome were related to severe fetal acidemia during labor and at birth. Severe fetal acidemia was defined as a fetal scalp or umbilical artery pH > 3 SD below the mean for normal pregnancy. pH values were available for 1,524 singleton births without congenital anomalies. Of these births, 83 (5.4%) had at least one pH value > 3 SD below the reference mean. Known risk factors in the group with severe acidemia were compared with those in a random sample of the remaining 94.6% births. The strongest predictor of severe fetal acidemia was an abnormal cardiotocogram with a Hammacher score > 8. Risk factors shown to lower pH values significantly were combined in a prediction model based on multiple regression analysis. Back-validation of the model showed that half of all cases of severe fetal acidemia could not be adequately predicted. It is concluded that such prediction models do not contribute to a more effective detection of severe fetal acidemia.
The effect of test duration on the sensitivity and specificity of ultra-rapid urease test for the detection of Helicobacter pylori infection.	'Home made' ultra-rapid urease tests are used extensively in the Asia Pacific region. Data on the reliability of these 'home made' tests are limited.
Clinical evaluation of irreversible data compression for computed radiography of the chest.	Efficient data compression is essential for practical daily operation of computed radiography (CR) systems. In this study the clinical applicability of type III irreversible high data compression using an FCR 9501 chest unit (Fuji Photo Film, Tokyo, Japan) was evaluated. Sixty-eight normal and 93 various abnormal cases, with an additional 15 cases of lung cancers with solitary lung nodules, were selected from the file. A pair of hard copies of original images and images reconstructed using type III compression was made for each case. Six radiologists evaluated the image quality by visual rating and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. For all five anatomic regions of normal cases, "original equal to compressed" was the most common response, followed by "original significantly better than compressed." When abnormal cases were evaluated for diagnostic information, there was no significant difference between the compressed and original images. ROC curve analysis on lung nodules with lung cancer showed no significant difference between the two. Compressed CR images using the type III irreversible technique are clinically applicable and acceptable despite slight degradation of image quality.
Application of artificial neural networks for quantitative analysis of image data in chest radiographs for detection of interstitial lung disease.	The authors have developed an automated computeraided diagnostic (CAD) scheme by using artificial neural networks (ANNs) on quantitative analysis of image data. Three separate ANNs were applied for detection of interstitial disease on digitized chest images. The first ANN was trained with horizontal profiles in regions of interest (ROIs) selected from normal and abnormal chest radiographs for distinguishing between normal and abnormal patterns. For training and testing of the second ANN, the vertical output patterns obtained from the 1st ANN were used for each ROI. The output value of the second ANN was used to distinguish between normal and abnormal ROIs with interstitial infiltrates. If the ratio of the number of abnormal ROIs to the total number of all ROIs in a chest image was greater than a specified threshold level, the image was classified as abnormal. In addition, the third ANN was applied to distinguish between normal and abnormal chest images. The combination of the rule-based method and the third ANN also was applied to the classification between normal and abnormal chest images. The performance of the ANNs was evaluated by means of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. The average Az value (area under the ROC curve) for distinguishing between normal and abnormal cases was 0.976 +/- 0.012 for 100 chest radiographs that were not used in training of ANNs. The results indicate that the ANN trained with image data can learn some statistical properties associated with interstitial infiltrates in chest radiographs.
The performance of CA-125 measurement in the detection of endometriosis: a meta-analysis.	To assess the diagnostic performance of serum CA-125 measurement in the detection of endometriosis.
Reproducibility and diagnostic sensitivity of ultrasonometry of the phalanges to assess osteoporosis.	The present study was designed to assess the reproducibility and the diagnostic sensitivity of the amplitude-dependent speed of sound (SoS) at the distal metaphysis of the proximal phalanges.
Slopes of a receiver operating characteristic curve and likelihood ratios for a diagnostic test.	This paper clarifies two important concepts in clinical epidemiology: the slope of a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and the likelihood ratio. It points out that there are three types of slopes in an ROC curve--the tangent at a point on the curve, the slope between the origin and a point on the curve, and the slope between two points on the curve. It also points out that there are three types of likelihood ratios that can be defined for a diagnostic test that produces results on a continuous scale--the likelihood ratio for a particular single test value, the likelihood ratio for a positive test result, and the likelihood ratio for a test result in a particular level or category. It further illustrates mathematically and empirically the following three relations between these various definitions of slopes and likelihood ratios: 1) the tangent at a point on the ROC curve corresponds to the likelihood ratio for a single test value represented by that point; 2) the slope between the origin and a point on the curve corresponds to the positive likelihood ratio using the point as a criterion for positivity; and 3) the slope between two points on the curve corresponds to the likelihood ratio for a test result in a defined level bounded by the two points. The likelihood ratio for a single test value is considered an important parameter for evaluating diagnostic tests, but it is not easily estimable directly from laboratory data because of limited sample size. However, by using ROC analysis, the likelihood ratio for a single test value can be easily measured from the tangent. It is suggested that existing ROC analysis software be revised to provide estimates for tangents at various points on the ROC curve.
p53 immunostaining as a significant adjunct diagnostic method for uterine surface carcinoma: precursor of uterine papillary serous carcinoma.	Uterine papillary serous carcinoma (UPSC) is a biologically aggressive carcinoma that causes a disproportionate number of endometrial cancer deaths because of its dismal clinical outcome. Although the precursor lesion of UPSC has been suggested both morphologically and molecularly, diagnosis continues to represent a challenge to surgical pathologists, particularly in biopsy specimens, largely in part because of its multiple histologic patterns and many benign morphologic mimics. In this study, we used p53 immunohistochemical staining as an adjunct test to correctly identify six cases of uterine surface carcinoma (USC) prospectively and three cases retrospectively. Both sensitivity and specificity for this immunostaining method approached 100% when the cutoff score of p53 overexpression was 7 or higher. The precision estimated by receiving operating characteristic curve was 100%, indicating that the diagnostic value of the score for p53 overexpression was very high. p53 immunohistochemical staining was considered a significant adjunct diagnostic method for the probable precursor lesion of UPSC. The probable precursor lesion of UPSC, previously referred to as endometrial intraepithelial carcinoma or endometrial carcinoma in situ, appears to represent the early phase of UPSC. However, unlike its names would suggest, this lesion is often multicentric and behaves in a more aggressive fashion than regular in situ carcinomas. For this reason, we prefer the term uterine surface carcinoma, a term that is more descriptive and less restrictive, to emphasize the unique aggressive nature of the UPSC precursor lesion. The reason we postulate using the term uterine surface carcinoma rather than endometrial intraepithelial carcinoma or endometrial carcinoma in situ is that the latter terms would seem define a neoplastic process confined to the endometrial epithelium without potential for metastasis. In reality, the precursor lesion of UPSC has a tendency to stromal and vascular space involvement as seen by the presence of stromal and vascular invasion in one of the prospectively identified USC cases. Therefore, the term uterine surface carcinoma is selected to alert clinicians that this early carcinoma has features of carcinoma in situ, but still carries a potential for metastasis.
Ultrasound measurements at the proximal phalanges in healthy women and patients with hip fractures.	Measurements of bone mineral density (BMD) are useful for the assessment of fracture risk in osteoporosis. First prospective studies showed that quantitative ultrasound as measured at the calcaneus also predicts future hip fracture risk, independently of BMD and as accurately as BMD. The aim of this study was to compile a reference population for a new ultrasound device that determines amplitude-dependent speed of sound (AD-SOS) through the proximal phalanges of the hand and to prove its ability to distinguish between health volunteers and osteoporotic patients. In a case-control study we examined 139 healthy women aged 21-94 years and a group of 24 female patients aged 69-94 years with recent hip fractures. In the healthy reference population additional BMD measurements were performed with dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and quantitative ultrasound measurements at the calcaneus were carried out. In vivo precision of AD-SOS measurements through the phalanges was 0.52% CV. Simple regression analyses showed a negative correlation with age (r = -0.73, p < 0.001); modest significant correlations with BMD of the lumbar spine (r = 0.36, p < 0.001) and BMD of the femoral neck (r = 0.37, p = 0.002) as measured with DXA were shown. The comparison with another ultrasound device measuring SOS and broadband ultrasound attenuation (BUA) through the calcaneus showed correlation with SOS (r = 0.50, p < 0.001); no significant correlation was found with BUA measurements. Furthermore a dependency of AD-SOS values in anthropometric factors such as body mass index (r = 0.37, p < 0.001), height (r = 0.40, p < 0.001) and weight (r = 0.23, p < 0.05) was shown. First study results on 24 clinically diagnosed osteoporotic patients, defined as patients with recent (< 1 week) pertrochanteric or femoral neck fractures, showed a good separation between age- and sex-matched controls and osteoporotic patients (Z = -2.0 SD). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves showed an area under the fitted curve of 0.83 +/- 0.06. These results are powerful for a device measuring AD-SOS through the proximal phalanges of the hand, and further prospective studies have proven the capability of phalangeal ultrasound in fracture risk assessment.
Comparative assessment of bone mineral measurements using dual X-ray absorptiometry and peripheral quantitative computed tomography.	A measurement of bone mass is the single most important determinant of future fracture. However, controversy exists as to which technique (dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) or peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT), and which site of skeletal measurement (axial vs appendicular) provides the best prediction of fracture risk. The aims of this study were: (1) to determine the ability of pQCT to predict bone mass of the lumbar spine, proximal femur, and distal forearm measured using DXA, and (2) to compare the ability of DXA and pQCT to discriminate prevalent fractures in women with established osteoporosis. One hundred and sixty-five women were studied, including 47 with established osteoporosis (vertebral, hip or Colles' fractures) as well as 118 who had bone mass measurements to assess osteoporosis risk. Each subject had bone mass measured by DXA at the lumbar spine and femoral neck, and at the distal radius by both DXA and pQCT. In women with fractures, bone mass, when expressed as a standardized score, was in general lower using DXA compared with the appendicular skeleton measured using pQCT. Bone mass determinations at all sites were significantly correlated with each other. The highest correlation coefficients were observed within the axial skeleton. In women with fractures, the highest odds ratios were observed at skeletal regions measured using DXA. Likewise, the areas under the receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves were comparable at all skeletal regions measured using DXA; and were significantly greater than the areas under the ROC curves for pQCT measurements. In summary, the strongest discriminators of prevalent fractures were measurements using DXA. Measurements of bone mass at the appendicular skeleton, using either DXA or pQCT, were poorly associated with axial bone mass. PQCT has the poorer ability to discriminate persons with fractures, and appears to be less sensitive than measurements using DXA.
The accuracy of single serum progesterone measurement in the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy: a meta-analysis.	Serum progesterone measurement has been advocated as a diagnostic tool in the non-invasive diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy. To assess the accuracy of a single serum progesterone measurement in the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy, a meta-analysis was performed incorporating 26 studies evaluating the performance of single serum progesterone measurement in the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy. A distinction was made in the diagnosis of pregnancy failure of any type versus viable intrauterine pregnancy and the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy versus non-ectopic pregnancy. The reported sensitivity and specificity differed between the studies. Since there was a clear negative correlation between sensitivity and specificity, summary receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves could be estimated. The ROC curve for the diagnosis of pregnancy failure versus viable intrauterine pregnancy showed a good discriminative capacity. Single serum progesterone measurement could not discriminate between ectopic pregnancy and non-ectopic pregnancy. It is concluded that serum progesterone measurement can identify patients at risk for ectopic pregnancy, who need further evaluation, but its discriminative capacity is insufficient to diagnose ectopic pregnancy with certainty.
Screening for ophthalmic disease in older subjects using visual acuity and contrast sensitivity.	Despite early interest in contrast sensitivity as a screening test for ophthalmic disease, most published opinion suggests that there is no benefit over conventional measurement of visual acuity. Taking a primary care perspective of screening, the authors evaluated the ability to discriminate those with any diagnosed ophthalmic disease in a large sample representative of the general population.
Discordant uterine artery velocity waveforms as a predictor of subsequent miscarriage in early viable pregnancies.	Our purpose was to determine whether an abnormal uterine perfusion pattern was associated with subsequent pregnancy loss after fetal cardiac activity was documented.
Plasma ferritin, premature rupture of membranes, and pregnancy outcome.	The objective of this study was to determine whether plasma ferritin levels predict maternal or neonatal outcomes in women with preterm rupture of membranes at <32 weeks' gestation.
Vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) and leukocyte activation in pre-eclampsia and eclampsia.	To evaluate the levels of VCAM-1 in pre-eclampsia/eclampsia as a possible marker of leukocyte activation and endothelial damage.
Comparative prognostic value of automatic quantitative analysis versus semiquantitative visual analysis of exercise myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography.	The purpose of this study was to determine the prognostic value of automatic quantitative analysis in exercise dual-isotope myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and to compare the prognostic value of quantitative analysis to semiquantitative visual SPECT analysis.
Iron status in pregnant women: which measurements are valid?	Anaemia in pregnancy in developing countries continues to be a public health problem of significant proportion. At least 50% of the anaemia has been blamed on iron deficiency. In populations where chronic inflammation and iron deficiency anaemia coexist, the criteria to accurately define iron status are not always clear. Similarly, in pregnancy, with marked physiological changes, cut-off points for biochemical parameters need to be re-examined. In this study we examined the diagnostic accuracy of iron parameters including mean cellular volume (MCV), serum iron, transferrin, total iron binding capacity (TIBC) and its saturation, zinc protoporphyrin (ZPP), ferritin and serum transferrin receptor (TfR) for the assessment of iron status in a population of anaemic pregnant women in Malawi. Stained bone marrow aspirates were used as the standard for comparison. Results show that for the purpose of screening, serum ferritin is the best single indicator of storage iron provided a cut-off point of 30 microg/l is used. A number of other commonly used parameters of iron status were shown to have limited diagnostic accuracy. Logistic regression was used to obtain mathematical models for the prediction of bone marrow iron status using a combination of available parameters.
Can the C-14 urea breath test replace follow-up endoscopic biopsies in patients treated for Helicobacter pylori infection?	The C-14 urea breath test (UBT) is the most specific noninvasive test to detect Helicobacter pylori, with reported sensitivity and specificity rates of 90% and 95%, respectively. This test has not been evaluated for eradication after a therapeutic trial. The goal of this study was to assess the accuracy of C-14 UBT in the diagnosis and eradication of H. pylori infection in patients with duodenal ulcer who were treated with a triple drug regimen.
Dementia screening in routine clinical practice. A comparative analysis of MMSE, SIDAM and ADAS]	Dementia-screening in clinical routine requires short, sensitive and specific tools. A number of standardized instruments are available for this purpose. The present study analysed the relationship between size of three exemplary dementia-screening tests and their diagnostic accuracy. The Mini-Mental-State-Examination (MMSE), the Structured Interview for the Diagnosis of Dementia of the Alzheimer-type, Multiinfarct Dementia and Dementias of other Aetiologies according to ICD-10 and DSM-III-R (SIDAM) and the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS) were applied to 71 patients with dementia of the Alzheimer-type and 73 non-demented controls. A ROC-analysis revealed that neither SIDAM nor ADAS differentiated better between demented and non-demented probands than the MMSE. This was also true for patients with mild dementia. In dementia staging the more comprehensive instruments did not surpass the MMSE, too. Due to it's brevity, the MMSE is the preferential screening-instrument for clinical routine.
Development and validation of an improved enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for the detection of thyroglobulin autoantibodies in canine serum samples.	An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect thyroglobulin autoantibodies (TGAB) in canine serum was developed and validated. The test result for each sample was derived from the optical density readings (OD) and expressed as an Ab-score(%) calculated from three in-house calibrators. The assay specifically detected TGAB as judged from lack of response in the assay after samples had been incubated with specific antigen. Intra- and interassay coefficients of variation ranged from 2.0-4.9% and 4.6-9.9%, respectively. The detection limit, an Ab-score of 5.6%, was close to the median Ab-score of 10% observed in healthy dogs (n = 132). The median Ab-score of dogs with primary hypothyroidism and lymphocytic thyroiditis (n = 11), skin diseases (n = 35), and non-thyroidal diseases (n = 63) was 340%, 12%, and 8%, respectively. The prevalence of TGAB in hypothyroid dogs with lymphocytic thyroiditis (sensitivity) was 91% (95% confidence limits: 59%-99%). In dogs with dermatological diseases without lymphocytic thyroiditis the prevalence of TGAB was 3% corresponding to a specificity of 97% (95% confidence limit: 85%-100%). In dogs with non-thyroidal diseases and healthy dogs the prevalence of TGAB was 5% and 6%, respectively. The diagnostic accuracy of serum TGAB was evaluated by subjecting the data from 11 dogs with lymphocytic thyroiditis and 35 control dogs without lymphocytic thyroiditis to receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis. The area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (W = 0.966; 95% confidence limit 87%-100%) was significantly higher than that of a worthless test (0.5) (P < 0.0001), thereby indicating that serum TGAB measurements distinguished between dogs with and without lymphocytic thyroiditis.
A prognostic score for postherpetic neuralgia in ambulatory patients.	The main objective was to develop a scoring system for easy use by the physician in daily clinical practice in deciding the appropriate treatment for his herpes zoster patient. Data from 635 patients who did not receive antiviral therapy were included in this analysis. Of these, 131 developed postherpetic neuralgia (PHN). Of the 29 variables tested univariately in this study, 15 showed a significant correlation with the incidence of PHN, but only six proved to contribute to the overall predictive power in the multivariate approach. Using two independent approaches, the model showed a very satisfactory performance in the validation sample. Patients without acute pain rarely developed PHN. In those with acute pain, being female, being over 50 years of age, having more than 50 lesions, having lesions of a hemorrhagic nature, having cranial or sacral localisation of the rash or having pain in the prodromal phase proved to be significant, multivariate factors. An easy-to-use scoring system used in a risk graph is proposed. These data should be useful in the individual treatment decision as well as in the design and analysis of therapeutic trials in herpes zoster.
The role of serum transferrin receptor in the diagnosis of iron deficiency.	Iron deficiency anemia (IDA) is often associated with inflammatory disorders. The most conventional parameters of iron metabolism are therefore affected, making the evaluation of iron status difficult. Serum transferrin receptor (sTfR) levels are raised in iron deficiency but are not influenced by inflammatory changes. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of sTfR in differentiating IDA with inflammatory features.
Morphometric grading in breast cancer: thresholds for mitotic counts.	Three hundred sixty-four cases of invasive ductal breast cancer diagnosed during the years 1988 to 1991 were analyzed to determine quantitative thresholds for mitotic activity. Mitotic counts were calculated in each sample and expressed as standardized mitotic index (SMI) and mitotic activity index (MAI). Based on Kaplan-Meier curves, univariate and multivariate analysis of Cox's regression, and maximum efficiencies of ROC analysis, optimal thresholds were determined on the basis of survival and recurrence of disease. In our material, with a follow-up time of 5 years 9 months, we found two thresholds--a lower and a higher--for both SMI (17 mitoses/mm2 and 32 mitoses/mm2) and MAI (13 mitoses/10 HPF and 35 mitoses/10 HPF). The thresholds were the same in the whole material and in subgroups divided according to the patients' age and axillary lymph node status at the time of diagnosis, and tumor size. The thresholds clearly separated patients with favorable, intermediate, and unfavourable outcome of disease. In our material, the risk of breast cancer death associated with the determined thresholds (ranging from 4.7 to 3.8) clearly exceeded those of menopausal status, axillary lymph node status and tumor size. The risk of breast cancer death associated with the determined thresholds was still emphasized in the groups of premenopausal and axillary lymph node-negative patients, and with tumor size less than 2 cm in diameter (risk ratios, 11.8, 6.0, and 6.7, respectively). The results suggest that the presented quantitative thresholds could be applied in grading of invasive ductal breast cancer.
Models of preoperative risk stratification in cardiac surgery: the prediction of mortality or of survival?]	The need to assess the quality of heart surgery outcomes stimulated the development of pre-surgical risk stratification models in order to predict outcome on the basis of patient characteristics. The aim of the study was to compare the predictive accuracy of hospital mortality according to the following three models: Parsonnet (NBI Score), Higgins (CCF Score) and Roques (French Score), in a setting totally independent from the one in which the models were derived.
Distortion product otoacoustic emissions for the assessment of auditory sensitivity]	Distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) were evaluated in 494 normal and 506 cochlear-impaired human ears, to determine whether DPOAEs depend on factors such as background noise, the shape of the pure tone audiogram, sex and aging, and whether a DPOAE test can perform well in distinguishing normal-hearing from hearing-impaired ears. The amplitudes of DPOAEs were measured at the frequency of 2f1-f2 (f1 < f2, f2/f1 = 1.22, f2 at 1, 2 and 4 kHz) using as stimuli two pure tones at level of 70 dB from an ILO92 Otoacoustic Emission Analyzer. The correlation coefficients between the DPOAE level and the auditory threshold decreased as the background noise levels at 1 kHz and 2 kHz increased. Therefore, it appeared that ears with large background noise levels would be inadequate for the study of DPOAEs predicting the hearing state. The sensitivity (normal-hearing ears identified as normal hearing) and the specificity (hearing-impaired ears identified as hearing impaired) at the equal-sensitivity-specificity condition were 80.7-86.7% at 1, 2 and 4 kHz, and the areas under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, which were used to estimate the test performance, were 0.88 for 1 kHz, 0.91 for 2 kHz and 0.92 for 4 kHz. Since these results suggest that a DPOAE can be used as a reliable technique for objective auditory tests, it is thought that actual values (DPOAE level: 4.3 dB at 1 kHz, 5.0 dB at 2 kHz and 2.9 dB at 4 kHz) of false-positive (hearing-impaired ears identified as normal hearing) rates corresponding to 5% can be used in clinical evaluation to separate normal hearing from hearing-impaired ears. There was, however, a significant age effect at 4 kHz on DPOAEs in the ears with the same pure tone hearing thresholds, and the areas of the ROC curves in subjects ranging from 10 to 29 years old were larger than in subjects over 50 years (1 kHz: 0.88 to 0.94 versus 0.83 to 0.84, 2 kHz: 0.95 versus 0.89, 4 kHz: 0.95 to 0.96 versus 0.88 to 0.89). Therefore, it is thought that age-adjusted norms may be necessary for the accurate interpretation of DPOAE results.
Number of sampling movements and manual stiffness judgments.	It has been suggested that when using posteroanterior pressure to assess the stiffness of the spine, no more than two or three oscillations should be used. This study sought to examine this clinical impression by investigating the effect of the number of sampling movements on stiffness perception.
Detection of glaucoma with scanning laser polarimetry.	To determine which retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) measures obtained with scanning laser polarimetry are most useful in detecting early to moderate glaucomatous visual field loss.
Analysis of clustered data in receiver operating characteristic studies.	Clustered data is not simply correlated data, but has its own unique aspects. In this paper, various methods for correlated receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve data that have been extended specifically to clustered data are reviewed. For those methods that have not yet been extended, suggestions for their application to clustered ROC studies are provided. Various methods with respect to their ability to meet either of two objectives of the analysis of clustered ROC data are compared to consider a variety of ROC indices and their accessibility to researchers. The available statistical methods for clustered data vary in the range of indices that can be considered and in their accessibility to researchers. Parametric models permit all indices to be considered but, owing to computational complexity, are the least accessible of available methods. Nonparametric methods are much more accessible, but only permit estimation and inference about ROC curve area. The jackknife method is the most accessible and permits any index to be considered. Future development of methods for clustered ROC studies should consider the continuation ratio model, which will permit the application of widely available software for the analysis of mixed generalized linear models. Another area of development should be in the adoption of bootstrapping methods to clustered ROC data.
Correcting for verification bias in studies of a diagnostic test's accuracy.	Standard methods for assessing the accuracy of diagnostic tests require determination of true disease status for each study patient. In practice, some study patients might not have verified disease status. If the decision to verify a patient is influenced by the test result, analysis using only verified cases might lead to biased results, commonly known as verification bias. This paper reviews recent developments in bias-correction methods for studies on the accuracy of diagnostic tests.
Sample size calculations in studies of test accuracy.	Methods for determining sample size for studies of the accuracy of diagnostic tests are reviewed. Several accuracy indices are considered, including sensitivity and specificity, the full and partial area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, the sensitivity at a fixed false positive rate, and the likelihood ratio. Sample size formulae are presented for studies evaluating a single test and studies comparing the accuracy of tests. Four real examples illustrate the concepts involved in sample size determination. Lastly, various study design issues are discussed, such as sampling methods, choices in format for the test results, and the issue of replicated readings.
Relationship between abnormalities on high-resolution CT and pulmonary function in systemic sclerosis.	To determine the predictive value of abnormalities on high-resolution CT (HRCT) on pulmonary disease in systemic sclerosis.
