Seed-cache exchange promotes coexistence and coupled consumer oscillations: a model of desert rodents as resource processors.	Most models of resource competition assume that coexistence of consumers depends on tradeoffs in their abilities to exploit shared resources along dimensions of environmental heterogeneity generated by factors external to the consumers. However, consumers may create heterogeneity themselves by modifying resources that they do not immediately consume; such "resource processing" is predicted to allow coexistence if consumers vary in use of resources in primary vs. modified form. To explore whether external food storage (caching) represents a form of resource processing that contributes to observed patterns of species coexistence, we developed a biologically explicit simulation model of competition for a well-studied system, seed-eating desert heteromyid rodents. Here we present the model, compare competitive outcomes with and without inter-specific exchange of cached food, and describe population dynamics of coexisting competitors. The model predicts stable coexistence only when there is exchange of cached seeds via scavenging of caches left undefended by mortality or by pilferage of defended caches. Net interactions between coexisting consumers ranged from competition (10% of cases) to host-parasite (77%), commensalism (12%), and mutualism (1%). Population dynamics of coexisting consumers often showed strong periodicity and coupled synchronous or slightly lagged cycles, a possibility not previously anticipated for desert rodents occupying constant environments. Our model confirms that caching does represent a form of resource processing likely to play a significant role in the dynamics and diversity of communities of desert rodents and other caching animals.
Separation-induced receptor changes in the hippocampus and amygdala of Octodon degus: influence of maternal vocalizations.	Relatively little is known about the basic mechanisms that play a role in the vulnerability of the developing brain toward adverse environmental influences. Our study in the South American rodent Octodon degus revealed that repeated brief separation from the parents and exposure to an unfamiliar environment induces in the hippocampal formation of male and female pups an upregulation of D1 and 5-HT1A receptor density in the stratum radiatum and stratum lacunosum moleculare of the CA1 region. In the CA3 region, only the 5-HT1A receptors were upregulated; no changes were observed for D1 receptors in this region. GABA(A) receptor density in the hippocampus and amygdala was downregulated (nonsignificant trend) after parental separation. The acoustic presence of the mother during parental separation suppressed the D1 and 5-HT1A receptor upregulation in some regions of the hippocampus; no such suppressing influence was observed for the GABA(A) receptors. In the basomedial amygdala, the maternal calls enhanced the separation-induced 5-HT1A receptor upregulation in the male pups, whereas in the female pups the separation-induced receptor densities were not only suppressed by the maternal call but further downregulated, compared with the control group. These results demonstrate that early adverse emotional experience alters aminergic function within the hippocampus and amygdala and that the mother's voice, a powerful emotional signal, can modulate these effects in the developing limbic system.
Aging and proliferative homeostasis: modulation by food restriction in rodents.	In rats fed ad libitum, the fat cell number increases with advancing age; the temporal pattern of this increase differs in the perirenal depot compared with the epididymal depot. Restriction of energy intake reduces the number of fat cells in fat depots whether the restriction is started soon after weaning or in adult life. The capacity for diet to modulate fat cell number is maintained through most, if not all, of the life span. Restriction of energy intake delayed death due to neoplasms; restriction of dietary fat or protein without restriction of energy did not have this action. In the case of leukemia/lymphoma, the data indicated that it was the age of occurrence that was delayed by the restriction of energy intake. Because restriction of dietary energy maintains most physiologic systems in a youthful state and retards a broad spectrum of disease processes, the importance of its effects on cellularity and cell proliferation in its anti-aging action remains to be established.
Pubertal development of sex differences in circadian function: an animal model.	The development of adult circadian function, particularly sexual dimorphism of function, has been well studied only in rapidly developed rodents. In such species development is complete by weaning. Data from adolescent humans suggest that significant development occurs during the pubertal period. We hypothesized that a more slowly developing rodent might better mimic the changes in circadian function around puberty in humans and allow us to determine the underlying neural changes. Entrained and free-running circadian rhythms were analyzed and correlated with pubertal development in male and female Octodon degus (degu) that remained gonadally intact or were gonadectomized at weaning. Brains were collected during development to measure androgen and estrogen receptors in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) Adult circadian period does not develop until 10-12 months of age in degus, long after the onset of gonadal maturation (3-5 months). The timing of circadian period maturation correlates with the appearance of steroid receptors in the SCN. Changes in free-running rhythms only occurred in gonadally intact degus. Adult phase angles of activity onset develop between 2 and 3 months of age (comparing results of two experiments), soon after the onset of pubertal changes.
Rodent spatial navigation: at the crossroads of cognition and movement.	Tasks that measure spatial learning and navigation have become central to contemporary research programs concerned with identifying the neurobiological bases of learning and memory. Although the past three decades have seen an explosion of research reports on rodent navigation, only a small proportion of this research has been directly aimed at identifying the constituent psychological and behavioral processes involved in navigation. Such efforts are critical for establishing a complete neuroscientific explanation of spatial behavior and navigation, however, the majority of these research efforts have focused on identifying a single behavioral dissociation (e.g. place learning vs cued navigation). Experimental comparisons limited to only two possible alternatives can lead to erroneous or otherwise incomplete conclusions regarding how animals navigate. Because multiple sources of information may come to bear on an animal's behavior in spatial tasks, consideration of these sources and their interaction may avoid certain pitfalls inherent in the single dissociation approach. We offer a descriptive model of rodent navigation which includes three important dimensions: reference frame, information, and movement control. A variety of extant behavioral and neurophysiological data that support the basic utility of this conceptual framework are discussed.
An overview of the tasks used to test working memory in rodents.	In rodents, working memory is a representation of an object, stimulus, or spatial location that is typically used within a testing session, but not between sessions, to guide behaviour. In this review we consider a number of the tasks used to assess this type of memory in the rodent, and highlight some of their limitations. Although the concept of working memory as applied to rodents has its origin in the experiments of David Olton and Werner Honig in the 1970s, many earlier experiments assessed the same type of memory under the guise of delayed reaction or alternation paradigms. We revisit these early tasks, and also consider the nature of working memory used on maze tasks, operant box based tasks, and non-spatial delayed non-matching to sample paradigms.
Gametogenesis and nucleotypic effects in the tetraploid red vizcacha rat, Tympanoctomys barrerae (Rodentia, Octodontidae).	Nucleotypic effects link DNA content with nuclear size and cell dimensions of reproductive cells in polyploid organisms. We studied the gametogenesis of the allotetraploid rodent Tympanoctomys barrerae, aiming to determine these effects in reproductive cells. The species' cofamily members, Octodon degus and Spalacopus cyanus were used as control. Spermatogenesis and oogenesis in T. barrerae follows the pattern of differentiation and sequence of events of the control species, but varied nucleotypic effects were observed. Exceedingly large, spatulated spermatozoa with a submedially attached flagellum are characteristic of male T. barrerae. The diameter of the nuclei of primordial and growing follicles as well as those of the Graaff follicles, of the granulose, and of luteal cells are significantly larger and heavily heterochromatic. Moreover, the width of the pellucid zone is 108% thicker in T. barrerae than in S. cyanus. Binucleation was recorded in 26% of luteal bodies examined whereas no binucleated cells are detected in the diploid control. Likewise, large heterochromatic nucleoli were observed in the follicle cells but not in S. cyanus. This finding and the high heterochromatin content of reproductive cells in the red vizcacha rat is probably associated with its genome complexity so that redundant genetic information is silenced through heterochromatinization.
Epididymis of viscacha (Lagostomus maximus maximus): morphological changes during the annual reproductive cycle.	Little is known about morphological changes in the epididymis in relation to the natural photoperiod or their influence on sperm maturation. The viscacha is a seasonal rodent living in the Southern Hemisphere. The adult males exhibit an annual reproductive cycle with periods of maximum gonadal activity and gonadal regression. In this work, we studied seasonal variations in the morphology and cellular population of the epididymis during both periods, and we compared these results with those recorded at the testicular level. Epididymides were removed and studied by light microscopy. Measurements of luminal diameter, epithelial height, thickness of the lamina propria, and relative cellular distribution were performed. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) or nonparametric ANOVA was used to compare the results. Striking quantitative and qualitative changes were observed. Epididymides in periods of gonadal regression showed a significant decrease in luminal diameter and epithelial height in cauda, while the thickness of the lamina propria increased. In the epididymal corpus, the number of clear cells increased, and the cytoplasm of principal cells showed numerous giant vacuoles. During the active period, the number of halo cells increased and the cytoplasm of these cells was filled with dense bodies. In conclusion, the epididymis of the viscacha exhibits important seasonal morphological changes throughout annual reproductive cycle. The epididymal corpus and cauda segments appeared to be the segments most sensitive to seasonal cyclical variations of the external environment. We therefore postulate that the epididymal morphology of the viscacha probably could be regulated by the natural photoperiod.
The structural-functional disorders in the liver of wild rodents from areas of the accident at the Chernobyl Atomic Electric Power Station]	A study was made of the morphological status of hepatocytes, the antioxidant activity of lipids and composition of phospholipids, and dehydrogenase activity in the liver of field mice taken from seven regions of the Chernobyl A.P.S. zone with different levels of contamination in 1987. There observed multiple types of destructive damages to the organ; depletion of liver lipids by antioxidants; diminution of phospholipids within the total lipid level; considerable increase in the phosphatidyl choline/phosphatidyl ethanolamine ratio and in the relative content of phospholipid lysoforms; and inhibition of dehydration processes. In the absence of a strict correlation between the changes in the biophysical and biochemical parameters or between the severity of degenerative changes in hepatocytes and the level of external irradiation, certain relationship was followed up between liver lipid depletion by antioxidants, inhibition of dehydration processes and the number of wild rodents which developed dystrophic changes in the organ. These structural and functional changes were found in the liver of wild rodents taken from all the regions: this indicated a considerable sensitivity of the parameters of the regulatory cell systems and hepatocytes to the effect of technogenic contamination.
Seismic signal transmission between burrows of the Cape mole-rat, Georychus capensis.	Both seismic and auditory signals were tested for their propagation characteristics in a field study of the Cape mole-rat (Georychus capensis), a subterranean rodent in the family Bathyergidae. This solitary animal is entirely fossorial and apparently communicates with its conspecifics by alternately drumming its hind legs on the burrow floor. Signal production in this species is sexually dimorphic, and mate attraction is likely mediated primarily by seismic signalling between individuals in neighboring burrows. Measurements within, and at various distances away from, natural burrows suggest that seismic signals propagate at least an order of magnitude better than auditory signals. Moreover, using a mechanical thumper which could be triggered from a tape recording of the mole-rat's seismic signals, we established that the vertically-polarized surface wave (Rayleigh wave) propagates with less attenuation than either of the two horizontally-polarized waves. Thus, we tentatively hypothesize that Rayleigh waves subserve intraspecific communication in this species.
Seasonal changes in thyroid-gonadal interactions in the edible dormouse, Glis glis.	This study was conducted to determine changes in thyroid-gonadal interaction in the edible dormouse during the phase of the annual cycle that corresponds to the end of the breeding season (from June to September). We evaluated intra-hypothalamic luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) content, and plasma concentrations of luteinizing hormone (LH), testosterone, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and thyroxine (T4) in three groups of dormice: (1) controls; (2) dormice receiving sufficient T4 supplementation to maintain June levels in control animals until September, thus counteracting the seasonal reduction of T4 that normally begins in July; and (3) thyroidectomized dormice. The effect of thyroidectomy was only detectable in June, when plasma T4 concentration in the control group was maximal, and consisted of a significant decrease in plasma testosterone levels. This provides strong support for the hypothesis that thyroid function positively influences gondal function during the breeding season. The T4 supplementation resulted in a decrease in hypothalamic LHRH concentration, suggesting that an increased LHRH release led to the observed stimulated hypophyseal secretion of LH in June and September and the increased circulating testosterone levels in September. There was no detectable effect in July and August. These results show that thyroid axis activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gondal system is only possible during certain phases of the annual cycle, particularly evidenced here during the breeding season. They also reinforce our conclusions drawn from the thyroidectomy results. Conversely, the summer testicular regression which normally occurs after the breeding season is no longer controlled by plasma T4 levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Bioactivation of chloroform in hepatic microsomes from rodent strains susceptible or resistant to CHCl3 carcinogenicity.	The dependence of adduct formation on oxygen concentration and glutathione (GSH) presence was used to characterize the bioactivation of chloroform in hepatic microsomes of Sprague-Dawley and Osborne-Mendel rats and B6C3F1 and C57Bl/6J mice. Both oxidative and reductive pathways were present in all the animals tested. Oxidative activation, very sensitive to oxygen withdrawal, was the major pathway responsible for the covalent binding to microsomal proteins and lipids at 0.1 mM CHCl3. The relative contribution of either pathway to the covalent binding to microsomal lipids at 5 mM CHCl3 was dependent on the oxygen concentration. At 1% pO2, i.e., in the range of the hepatic physiological oxygenation level, B6C3F1 mouse hepatic microsomes showed an oxidative activation distinctly higher than that of hepatic microsomes of other rodents; on the other hand, reductive activation was present only in B6C3F1 mouse and Osborne-Mendel rat liver microsomes. The reductive intermediates were the only contributors to the covalent binding of CHCl3 equivalents to lipids in the presence of GSH; indeed the reactive intermediates produced by the oxidative pathway were fully scavenged by this compound. These results are discussed with respect to the species specificity of CHCl3 hepatocarcinogenesis.
Behavioral strategies of the African ice rat Otomys sloggetti robertsi in the cold.	Thermoregulation in cold environments imposes great energy demands on small mammals. For the ice rat Otomys sloggetti robertsi, a herbivore endemic to high altitude alpine regions of southern Africa, these demands might be high since it does not hibernate and is poorly-adapted physiologically to low temperatures. We investigated whether ice rats modify their behavior patterns seasonally by recording the duration of behaviors as well as sequential transitions among behaviors for free-living adult males and females. Contrary to expectations, gender and time of day did not influence ice rat behavior in both seasons. However, there were marked seasonal differences in the duration of behaviors, with ice rats spending significantly more time foraging and basking in winter whereas they remained belowground in their burrows for longer periods of time in summer. Hoarding behavior increased significantly from summer to winter and females showed higher levels of hoarding in summer than males. Sequential analyses revealed that behaviors were strongly influenced by season. There were more two-way transitions in winter than in summer, indicating the occurrence of behavioral routines which might reduce energy expenditure. Our data suggest that ice rats modify their behavior in terms of the duration and sequences of behaviors in response to prevailing environmental conditions.
Active sensation: insights from the rodent vibrissa sensorimotor system.	Rats sweep their vibrissae through space to locate objects in their immediate environment. In essence, their view of the proximal world is generated through pliable hairs that tap and palpate objects. The texture and shape of those objects must be discerned for the rat to assess the value of the object. Furthermore, the location of those objects must be specified with reference to the position of the rat's head for the rat to plan its movements. Recent in vivo and in vitro electrophysiological measurements provide insight into the algorithms and mechanisms that underlie these behavioral-based computations.
Circadian chronotypes among wild-captured west Andean octodontids.	Rest activity pattern was studied in wild-captured males of Octodon degus (n=9), Octodon bridgesi (n=3), and Spalacopus cyanus (n=6) (Rodentia: Octodontidae). Ten-minute resolution actograms were constructed from data obtained by an automated acquisition system. After two months of habituation to a stable light-dark schedule, recordings were performed in isolation chambers under a 12: 12 Light Dark schedule. A free-running period (constant darkness) was recorded for O. bridgesi and S. cyanus. O. degus displayed a crepuscular pattern of rest activity rhythm. Entrained O. bridgesi and S. cyanus displayed nocturnal preference, with rest anticipating light phase and without crepuscular activity bouts. Under constant darkness, active phase occurred at subjective night in O. bridgesi and S. cyanus. Wild-captured O. bridgesi and S. cyanus possess a circadian driven nocturnal preference, while wild O. degus displays a crepuscular profile. Diurnal active phase preference of wild S. cyanus colonies observed in the field could not be explained solely by photic entrainment, since social and/or masking processes appear to be operative. The genus Octodon includes species with diverse chronotypes. We propose that crepuscular diurnal pattern observed in O. degus is a recent acquisition among the octodontid lineage.
Cachers, scavengers, and thieves: a novel mechanism for desert rodent coexistence.	A biologically explicit simulation model of resource competition between two species of seed-eating heteromyid rodent indicates that stable coexistence is possible on a homogeneous resource if harvested food is stored and consumers steal each other's caches. Here we explore the coexistence mechanisms involved by analyzing how consumer phenotypes and presence of a noncaching consumer affect the competitive outcome. Without cache exchange, the winning consumer is better at harvesting seeds and produces more offspring per gram of stored food. With cache exchange, coexistence is promoted by interspecific trade-offs between harvest ability, metabolic efficiency, and ability to pilfer defended caches of heterospecifics or scavenge undefended caches of dead conspecifics or heterospecifics. Cache exchange via pilferage can equalize competitor fitnesses but has little stabilizing effect and leads to stable coexistence only in the presence of a noncaching consumer. In contrast, scavenging is both equalizing and stabilizing and promotes coexistence without a third consumer. Because body size affects a heteromyid rodent's metabolic rate, seed harvest rate, caching strategy, and ability to steal caches, interspecific differences in body size should produce the trade-offs necessary for coexistence. The observation that coexisting heteromyids differ in body size therefore indicates that cache exchange may promote diversity in heteromyid communities.
Naturally suppressed apoptosis prevents follicular atresia and oocyte reserve decline in the adult ovary of Lagostomus maximus (Rodentia, Caviomorpha).	It has been widely accepted that mammalian females are born with a non-renewing, finite pool of oocytes that will be continuously cleared by atresia, with only a small proportion of them reaching ovulation. Apoptosis regulates this mass germ cell death, especially through the balance between pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins encoded by the BCL-2 gene family. The caviomorph rodent Lagostomus maximus, the South American plains viscacha, displays the highest ovulation rate known for a mammal releasing 400-800 eggs per cycle. We tested the hypothesis that in L. maximus massive polyovulation is a consequence of reduced apoptosis resulting in suppressed follicular atresia. We found that anti-apoptotic BCL-2 gene is markedly expressed in all kind of follicles from primordial to fully mature antral stages in the adult ovary of L. maximus. On the other hand, pro-apoptotic BAX gene showed weak signals or was undetectable by immunohistochemical examination. Western blot against both proteins confirmed immunohistochemical results. Screening for DNA fragmentation by TUNEL assay was conspicuously negative in ovaries from both pregnant and non-pregnant females. In addition, alpha-oestrogen receptor also showed an enhanced expression from primordial stage to fully mature antral follicles. Our results show that natural preferential expression of BCL-2 and restricted BAX expression greatly suppresses apoptosis in the ovary of L. maximus. This prevents the decline of the oocyte reserve by abolishing follicular atresia and enables the highest ovulation rate known for a mammal, 400-800 or more eggs per cycle.
Dopaminergic innervation of the cerebral cortex: unexpected differences between rodents and primates.	Until recently, views on the organization and role of the mesotelencephalic dopaminergic (DA) systems were mostly based on studies of rodents, and it was assumed that homology existed across mammalian species. However, recent studies of both human and non-human primates indicate that this might not be so. The mesocortical DA system in primates, which is directly involved in the pathophysiology of severe illnesses such as Parkinson's disease and psychoses, shows substantial differences from that of rodents. These differences include much larger, re-organized terminal fields, a different phenotype for the co-localization of neuropeptides and a very early prenatal development.
Demonstrating coprophagy with passage markers? The example of the plains viscacha (Lagostomus maximus).	Coprophagy, or the ingestion of a certain fraction of the faeces, is a well-known strategy of small herbivores. However, the question of whether a particular species actually uses this cryptic strategy or not is not easily answered experimentally. In this study we introduce the use of ingesta passage markers as a tool to verify coprophagy in species where individual observation might be difficult. In two captive adult plains viscachas (Lagostomus maximus), we demonstrate recurrent excretion peaks for both a fluid (cobald-EDTA) and a particle (chromium-mordanted fibre) marker, the most parsimonious explanation for which is faeces re-ingestion. In addition, a literature review of graphical presentations of passage marker excretion revealed such recurrent marker peaks in a large number of studies; however, these observations were rarely explicitly contributed to a coprophagic digestion strategy. The widespread use of semi-logarithmic plots or cumulative marker excretion curves in displaying passage studies makes recurrent marker excretion peaks less evident. We conclude that passage markers offer a comparatively easy way of assessing the incidence of coprophagy. Due to the reported absence of coprophagy in rabbits, a species well-known for using this strategy, on high-protein, low-fibre diets, it is recommended that investigations of the occurrence of coprophagy should be made with animals fed challenging, high-fibre diets.
The rodent estrous cycle: characterization of vaginal cytology and its utility in toxicological studies.	While an evaluation of the estrous cycle in laboratory rodents can be a useful measure of the integrity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian reproductive axis, it can also serve as a way of insuring that animals exhibiting abnormal cycling patterns are disincluded from a study prior to exposure to a test compound. Assessment of vaginal cytology in regularly cycling animals also provides a means to establish a comparable endocrine milieu for animals at necropsy. The procedure for obtaining a vaginal smear is relatively non-invasive and is one to which animals can become readily accustomed. It requires few supplies, and with some experience the assessments can be easily performed in fresh, unstained smears, or in fixed, stained ones. When incorporated as an adjunct to other endpoint measures, a determination of a female's cycling status can contribute important information about the nature of a toxicant insult to the reproductive system. In doing so, it can help to integrate the data into a more comprehensive mechanistic portrait of the effect, and in terms of risk assessment, may provide some indication of a toxicant's impact on human reproductive physiology.
Burrowing in rodents: a sensitive method for detecting behavioral dysfunction.	Virtually all rodents display burrowing behavior, yet measurement of this behavior has not yet been standardized or formalized. Previously, parameters such as the latency to burrow and the complexity of the burrow systems in substrate-filled boxes in the laboratory or naturalistic outdoor environments have been assessed. We describe here a simple protocol that can quantitatively measure burrowing in laboratory rodents, using a simple apparatus that can be placed in the home cage. The test is very cheap to run and requires minimal experimenter training, yet seems sensitive to a variety of treatments, such as the early stages of prion disease in mice, mouse strain differences, lesions of the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex in mice, also effects of lipopolysaccharide and IL-1beta in rats. Other species such as hamsters, gerbils and Egyptian spiny mice also burrow in this apparatus, and with suitable size modification probably almost any burrowing animal could be tested in it. The simplicity, sensitivity and robustness of burrowing make it ideal for assessing genetically modified animals, which in most cases would be mice. The test is run from late afternoon until the next morning, but only two measurements need to be taken.
Public statement: guidelines for the assessment and management of pain in rodents and rabbits.	The ACLAM Analgesia Task Force was appointed by ACLAM President Diane Gaertner in 2003. The charge to the Task Force was to develop guidelines that could be used by veterinarians, scientists and IACUCs in helping to provide appropriate assessment and management of pain in rodents, with the understanding that ultimately the clinical veterinarian on site at the institution must make decisions relevant to a specific animal or animals and/or protocol. The guidelines were not to be developed as, and should not be used as, requirements. To complete its charge the Task Force reviewed and cited, in a comprehensive manner, available data-based literature in writing the paper. In the course of completion of the document, ACLAM Board of Directors (BOD) reviewed an early draft and at that time also appointed 3 ACLAM diplomates with particular expertise in assessment and management of pain in rodents to act as reviewers of the draft. The Task Force members responded to the critiques and comments submitted by both the BOD and the 3 reviewers. This revised draft was then placed on the ACLAM website for comments from the entire College. The draft was well received by responding diplomates. Comments from the membership were reviewed and discussed by the Task Force, and most were incorporated into the final draft manuscript. The draft then received final review and editing by the ACLAM Publications Committee Chairman, and was accepted in the format presented here. Despite this extensive vetting process through ACLAM, readers should nonetheless be aware that because this document represents the approved statement of an AALAS affiliate organization, it has not undergone the usual JAALAS peer review process. I would like to acknowledge the efforts of the Task Force and the leadership of ACLAM for supporting this comprehensive and informative synthesis. The document should serve as a resource to the research community for years to come.
Harvesting of males delays female breeding in a socially monogamous mammal; the beaver.	Human exploitation may skew adult sex ratios in vertebrate populations to the extent that males become limiting for normal reproduction. In polygynous ungulates, females delay breeding in heavily harvested populations, but effects are often fairly small. We would expect a stronger effect of male harvesting in species with a monogamous mating system, but no such study has been performed. We analysed the effect of harvesting males on the timing of reproduction in the obligate monogamous beaver (Castor fiber). We found a negative impact of harvesting of adult males on the timing of parturition in female beavers. The proportion of normal breeders sank from over 80%, when no males had been shot in the territories of pregnant females, to under 20%, when three males had been shot. Harvesting of males in monogamous mammals can apparently affect their normal reproductive cycle.
Reduced rodent biodiversity destabilizes plant populations.	We tested the hypothesis that species loss at one trophic level will reduce the temporal stability of populations at other trophic levels. We examined the temporal stability of annual plant populations on plots that experimentally manipulated the functional diversity of seed-eating rodent consumers. Experimental reduction of rodent functional diversity destabilized populations of small-seeded plants but had less consistent effects on larger-seeded species. Small-seeded species also exhibited a greater number of years of zero abundance. Thus, experimental reduction of rodent functional diversity resulted in lower plant diversity. The decline in the temporal stability of small-seeded plants likely resulted from increased interspecific competition by large-seeded plants. These results demonstrate that the loss of species at one trophic level can lead to reduced richness at lower trophic levels via competition and reduced temporal stability.
Ultrastructural features of the lining epithelium of the vas deferens of Agouti paca.	The epididymal epithelium of Agouti paca, a wild South American rodent, was basically formed by principal and basal cells. Principal cells were closely related to processes of adsorptive endocytosis, phase-fluid endocytosis and also secretion originating from their cytoplasmic ultrastructural features. Principal cells were also characterized by the presence of vesicles of several shapes, sizes and internalized content occurring in smaller pits, pale small vesicles next to the apical brush border of microvillus, as well as coated vesicles, smooth surface vesicles and great vesicles. Multivesicular bodies, endosomes and lysosomes were mainly observed in supranuclear position. Moreover, presence of an apocrine secretory process was demonstrated by the occurrence of apical cytoplasmic expansions projecting into the vas deferens luminal compartment. Basal flattened cells without luminal surface contact occurred next to the basement membrane of the ductus, and did no exhibit special ultrastructural features.
Interactions between environmental factors can hide isolation by distance patterns: a case study of Ctenomys rionegrensis in Uruguay.	Identifying the factors responsible for the structuring of genetic diversity is of fundamental importance for biodiversity conservation. However, arriving at such understanding is difficult owing to the many factors involved and the potential interactions between them. Here, we present an example of how such interactions can preclude us from arriving at a complete characterization of the demographic history and genetic structure of a species. Ctenomys rionegrensis is a species with restricted dispersal abilities and, as such, should exhibit an isolation by distance (IBD) pattern, which previous studies were unable to uncover. It was therefore concluded that this species underwent a recent population expansion. Using a novel hierarchical Bayesian method, we show that the inability to detect the IBD pattern is due to the interaction between elevation and geographical distance. We posit that populations in low areas suffer periodic floods that may reduce local population sizes, increasing genetic drift, a process that masks the effect of distance on genetic differentiation. Our results do not refute the possibility that the populations of C. rionegrensis underwent a recent population expansion but they indicate that an alternative scenario described by a metapopulation model at or near migration-drift equilibrium cannot be excluded either.
Pollination systems of Colchicum (Colchicaceae) in southern Africa: evidence for rodent pollination.	Plants adapted for pollination by rodents tend to exhibit a distinct floral syndrome that includes dull coloured and geoflorous inflorescences and nocturnal anthesis and nectar production. On the basis of their floral traits, it was predicted that two African Colchicum species (C. scabromarginatum and C. coloratum) are rodent-pollinated.
Mitochondrial H2O2 emission and cellular redox state link excess fat intake to insulin resistance in both rodents and humans.	High dietary fat intake leads to insulin resistance in skeletal muscle, and this represents a major risk factor for type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress have been implicated in the disease process, but the underlying mechanisms are still unknown. Here we show that in skeletal muscle of both rodents and humans, a diet high in fat increases the H(2)O(2)-emitting potential of mitochondria, shifts the cellular redox environment to a more oxidized state, and decreases the redox-buffering capacity in the absence of any change in mitochondrial respiratory function. Furthermore, we show that attenuating mitochondrial H(2)O(2) emission, either by treating rats with a mitochondrial-targeted antioxidant or by genetically engineering the overexpression of catalase in mitochondria of muscle in mice, completely preserves insulin sensitivity despite a high-fat diet. These findings place the etiology of insulin resistance in the context of mitochondrial bioenergetics by demonstrating that mitochondrial H(2)O(2) emission serves as both a gauge of energy balance and a regulator of cellular redox environment, linking intracellular metabolic balance to the control of insulin sensitivity.
Coprophagy in animals: a review.	Coprophagy is performed by rodents and lagomorphs and to a lesser degree by piglets, foals, dogs and nonhuman primates. Due to the construction of the digestive system of rodents and rabbits, coprophagy is necessary to supply many essential nutrients. Bacterial synthesis of nutrients occurs in the lower gastrointestinal tract in these animals where little absorption is realized. The eating of their feces provides a method for obtaining these nutrients.
Starch and sugar tastes in rodents: an update.	Rats are strongly attracted to the sweet taste of sugar. Recent behavioral studies demonstrate that rats also have a well-developed taste for starch-derived polysaccharides (e.g., Polycose). In fact, rats prefer Polycose to sucrose and other sugars at low concentrations. Polycose appetite develops at a very young age (9 days) and, thus, appears to be innate. The results of conditioned taste aversion tests suggest that rats taste Polycose as qualitatively different from sucrose. Recent electrophysiological findings support the idea that rodents have separate taste channels for polysaccharides and sugars. In particular, copper chloride suppresses the chorda tympani nerve response to sucrose and other sugars but has minimal effect on the neural response to Polycose. Also, Polycose evokes a profile of neural activity in the nucleus tractus solitarius that differs substantially from that produced by sucrose. Preliminary results indicate that polysaccharide and sugar tastes also differ in their metabolic consequences, i.e., unlike sugars, Polycose does not elicit a cephalic phase insulin response. The presumed function of polysaccharide taste is to facilitate the identification of starch-rich foods. Recent findings demonstrate that rats can readily detect starch even at low concentrations, but whether polysaccharide taste receptors or other orosensory receptors mediate this response remains to be clarified.
Evaluation of three immobilization combinations in the capybara (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris).	Capybaras (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris) are the world's largest rodent. Owing to its uniqueness, 50 AZA institutions in North America display this species. As shown by a survey, no standard anesthetic protocol has been developed for this species. As a part of an ongoing behavioral study in Venezuela, capybaras were surgically implanted with radio transmitters. Animals were randomly assigned to one of the three immobilization protocols: (1) Tiletamine HCl/Zolazepam HCl, (2) Tiletamine HCl/Zolazepam HCl/Medetomidine HCl, and (3) Tiletamine HCl/Zolazepam HCl/Medetomidine HCl/Butorphanol tartrate. The protocol recommended for minimally invasive procedures when inhalant anesthetics are unavailable is a combination of Tiletamine HCl/Zolazepam HCl/Medetomidine HCl/Butorphanol tartrate. This is based on ease of administration, volume, onset of action, depth of anesthetic achieved, reversibility, safety, and costs.
Spermatogonial stem cells in higher primates: are there differences from those in rodents?	Spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) maintain spermatogenesis throughout the reproductive life of mammals. While A(single) spermatogonia comprise the rodent SSC pool, the identity of the stem cell pool in the primate spermatogenic lineage is not well established. The prevailing model is that primate spermatogenesis arises from A(dark) and A(pale) spermatogonia, which are considered to represent reserve and active stem cells respectively. However, there is limited information about how the A(dark) and A(pale) descriptions of nuclear morphology correlate with the clonal (A(single), A(paired), and A(aligned)), molecular (e.g. GFRalpha1 (GFRA1) and PLZF), and functional (SSC transplantation) descriptions of rodent SSCs. Thus, there is a need to investigate primate SSCs using criteria, tools, and approaches that have been used to investigate rodent SSCs over the past two decades. SSCs have potential clinical application for treating some cases of male infertility, providing impetus for characterizing and learning to manipulate these adult tissue stem cells in primates (nonhuman and human). This review recounts the development of a xenotransplant assay for functional identification of primate SSCs and progress dissecting the molecular and clonal characteristics of the primate spermatogenic lineage. These observations highlight the similarities and potential differences between rodents and primates regarding the SSC pool and the kinetics of spermatogonial self-renewal and clonal expansion. With new tools and reagents for studying primate spermatogonia, the field is poised to develop and test new hypotheses about the biology and regenerative capacity of primate SSCs.
Replication status of the fragile X chromosome and its implications for reproductive performance in the Indian mole rat (Nesokia indica).	In all fertile females the fragile X chromosome was almost always late replicating (inactive) in an average 82% of cells whereas in infertile females, it was early replicating (active) in about the same percentage of cells. These observations strongly suggest a correlation between the replication (activity) status of the fragile X chromosome and reproductive performance.
Seismic communication in a blind subterranean mammal: a major somatosensory mechanism in adaptive evolution underground.	Seismic communication, through low-frequency and patterned substrate-borne vibrations that are generated by head thumping, and which travel long distances underground, is important in the nonvisual communication of subterranean mole rats of the Spalax ehrenbergi superspecies (2n = 52, 54, 58, and 60) in Israel. This importance pertains both intraspecifically in adaptation and interspecifically in speciation. Neurophysiologic, behavioral, and anatomic findings in this study suggest that the mechanism of long-distance seismic communication is basically somatosensory and is independent of the auditory mechanism. Seismic communication thus appears to be a channel of communication important in the evolution of subterranean mammals that display major adaptation to life underground.
Spermatogenic efficiency in the spiny rat, Trinomys moojeni (Rodentia: Echimyidae).	The spiny rat (Trinomys moojeni) is a rodent found in the Atlantic Forest, which is considered one of the most diverse and threatened biomes in the world. Knowledge on reproductive biology and physiology is critical to conservation and species management, allowing the prevention of extinction and the use of males in natural and artificial reproduction programs. The main objectives of the present study were to investigate the testis structure as well as spermatogenic and Sertoli cell efficiency in the spiny rat captured in the Caraça Natural Reserve, a fragment of the Atlantic Forest located in the State of Minas Gerais, Brazil. Ten sexually mature spiny rats were analyzed. Intraperitoneal injections of tritiated thymidine were administered to estimate duration of spermatogenesis. The testes were perfused-fixed in buffered glutaraldehyde and routinely processed for histological and morphometric analyses as well as the characterization of the stages of seminiferous epithelium cycle. Volume density (%) of seminiferous tubules and Leydig cells were 97 +/- 0.3 and 0.3 +/- 0.02, respectively. The duration of one spermatogenic cycle and total duration of spermatogenesis were 8.6 +/- 0.1 and 38.5 +/- 0.5 days, respectively. Due to the very great volume density of the seminiferous tubules, short duration of spermatogenesis, tubule length per gram of testis (approximately 40 m), great Sertoli cell efficiency (approximately 15 spermatids per Sertoli cell) and large number of Sertoli cells per testis gram (53 million), spermatogenic efficiency in the spiny rat (82 million) is by far the greatest of the mammalian species investigated thus far.
Using ecology to guide the study of cognitive and neural mechanisms of different aspects of spatial memory in food-hoarding animals.	Understanding the survival value of behaviour does not tell us how the mechanisms that control this behaviour work. Nevertheless, understanding survival value can guide the study of these mechanisms. In this paper, we apply this principle to understanding the cognitive mechanisms that support cache retrieval in scatter-hoarding animals. We believe it is too simplistic to predict that all scatter-hoarding animals will outperform non-hoarding animals on all tests of spatial memory. Instead, we argue that we should look at the detailed ecology and natural history of each species. This understanding of natural history then allows us to make predictions about which aspects of spatial memory should be better in which species. We use the natural hoarding behaviour of the three best-studied groups of scatter-hoarding animals to make predictions about three aspects of their spatial memory: duration, capacity and spatial resolution, and we test these predictions against the existing literature. Having laid out how ecology and natural history can be used to predict detailed cognitive abilities, we then suggest using this approach to guide the study of the neural basis of these abilities. We believe that this complementary approach will reveal aspects of memory processing that would otherwise be difficult to discover.
What scatter-hoarding animals have taught us about small-scale navigation.	Many animals use cues for small-scale navigation, including beacons, landmarks, compasses and geometric properties. Scatter-hoarding animals are a unique system to study small-scale navigation. They have to remember and relocate many individual spatial locations, be fairly accurate in their searching and have to remember these locations for long stretches of time. In this article, we review what is known about cue use in both scatter-hoarding birds and rodents. We discuss the importance of local versus global cues, the encoding of bearings and geometric rules, the use of external compasses such as the Sun and the influence of the shape of experimental enclosures in relocating caches or hidden food. Scatter-hoarding animals are highly flexible in how and what they encode. There also appear to be differences in what scatter-hoarding birds and rodents encode, as well as what scatter-hoarding animals in general encode compared with other animals. Areas for future research with scatter-hoarding animals are discussed in light of what is currently known.
Organization of the mouse motor cortex studied by retrograde tracing and intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) mapping.	The motor representation of the body musculature was studied in 11 adult mice by using ICMS. The motor responses elicited from both granular and agranular cortical fields showed that the mouse motor cortex is topographically organized; however, within the representation of individual body-parts the movements are multiply represented. In addition, several sites were encountered where more than one movement was elicited at the same stimulus threshold. The locations of pyramidal cells contributing axons to the pyramidal tract were examined by means of retrograde tracing with HRP injected into the cervical enlargement. This procedure labeled neurons only in lamina V in granular and agranular cortical fields. The similarities between the organization of motor cortex demonstrated in this study and the organization in the rat suggest that the rat and mouse share a common plan of rodent motor cortical organization.
Latitudinal patterns in rodent metabolic flexibility.	Macrophysiology is defined as the study of variation in physiological traits-including physiological trait flexibility-over large geographical and temporal scales, and the ecological implications of this variation. A classic example of a macrophysiological trend is the one emerging from the climatic variability hypothesis, which states that as the range of climatic fluctuation experienced by terrestrial animals increases with latitude, individuals at higher latitudes should be more plastic than individuals inhabiting lower latitudes. In this context, we evaluate the correlation between absolute metabolic scope during cold exposure (an instantaneous measure of metabolic flexibility) and different geographic and climatic variables for 48 rodent species. Conventional and phylogenetic informed analyses indicated a positive correlation between metabolic scope and geographic latitude. These findings, together with previous reports on latitudinal pattern in phenotypic flexibility, suggest that an increase in physiological flexibility with latitude may hold for many phenotypic traits.
Thieves or mutualists? Pulp feeders enhance endozoochore local recruitment.	The persistence of mutualisms despite the strong incidence of exploiters could be explained if exploiters deny one or more services (i.e., cheat) while eventually supplying some subtler but critical services. Pulp feeders usually ingest fruit reward without dispersing seeds and thus are considered to be mainly cheaters or thieves of seed-disperser mutualisms. By consuming the fruit pulp, however, they could release seeds from pulp inhibitory effect, enhancing germination and, potentially, subsequent seedling emergence, growth, survival, and thus local recruitment. We evaluated such a largely neglected hypothesis by considering the interaction between Pyrus bourgaeana and its pulp feeders. We experimentally showed that pericarp removal had a consistent strong positive effect on seed performance (e.g., lower rotting and higher germination percentages) and seedling fate (greater emergence, growth, and survival to two years old). Interestingly, these relatively large positive effects of depulpation on plant fitness persisted for a surprisingly long time. Though seedlings experienced higher mortality under fruiting conspecifics, the benefits of depulpation were not overridden by high propagule mortality beneath fruiting trees or in adverse microhabitats after two years of monitoring. Specifically, the cumulative probability of establishment for depulped seeds was 4-25 times higher than for seeds in whole ripe fruits. Thus, under some circumstances, pulp feeders can provide essential services to endozoochorous plants. Our study contributes to clarifying the apparent paradox of plant-frugivore mutualisms that persist in the face of exploitation by pulp feeders. Because "thieves" and "mutualists" refer to the extremes of a complex continuum, and because organisms displaying concurrent cheating and honest behaviors during different host stages are likely prevalent, the persistent language of mutualists vs. thieves, cheaters, or exploiters might be misleading.
Field and laboratory studies provide insights into the meaning of day-time activity in a subterranean rodent (Ctenomys aff. knighti), the tuco-tuco.	South American subterranean rodents (Ctenomys aff. knighti), commonly known as tuco-tucos, display nocturnal, wheel-running behavior under light-dark (LD) conditions, and free-running periods >24 h in constant darkness (DD). However, several reports in the field suggested that a substantial amount of activity occurs during daylight hours, leading us to question whether circadian entrainment in the laboratory accurately reflects behavior in natural conditions. We compared circadian patterns of locomotor activity in DD of animals previously entrained to full laboratory LD cycles (LD12:12) with those of animals that were trapped directly from the field. In both cases, activity onsets in DD immediately reflected the previous dark onset or sundown. Furthermore, freerunning periods upon release into DD were close to 24 h indicating aftereffects of prior entrainment, similarly in both conditions. No difference was detected in the phase of activity measured with and without access to a running wheel. However, when individuals were observed continuously during daylight hours in a semi-natural enclosure, they emerged above-ground on a daily basis. These day-time activities consisted of foraging and burrow maintenance, suggesting that the designation of this species as nocturnal might be inaccurate in the field. Our study of a solitary subterranean species suggests that the circadian clock is entrained similarly under field and laboratory conditions and that day-time activity expressed only in the field is required for foraging and may not be time-dictated by the circadian pacemaker.
Cellular associations of pituitary gonadotrophs in a rodent (Lagostomus maximus maximus) with photoperiod-dependent reproduction.	The morphological characteristics and percentage of the cellular associations between gonadotrophs (LH- and FSH-secreting cells) and other cellular types were studied in pituitary pars distalis of adult male viscachas (Lagostomus maximus maximus) by double immunohistochemistry using specific antibodies to LH, FSH, PRL, GH, ACTH, TSH and S-100 protein (by folliculostellate cells; FSC), during long and short photoperiods. Bihormonal gonadotrophs were observed in ventro-medial and dorsal regions, interspersed between monohormonal gonadotrophs, and their number increased in short photoperiod. LH- and FSH-gonadotrophs were found around lactotrophs, enclosed by somatotrophs in the dorsal region, and associated with irregular corticotrophs. Gonadotrophs and thyrotrophs were associated along blood vessels and follicular structures. The cytoplasmic prolongations of FSC were in contact with both gonadotrophs. The percentage of LH-FSH, LH-ACTH, LH-FSC, FSH-LH, FSH-PRL, FSH-GH, FSH-ACTH, FSH-TSH and FSH-FSC associations decreased, whereas LH-PRL increased in short as compared to long photoperiod. The most abundant associations were LH-GH and LH-TSH during long photoperiod, but LH-GH and LH-PRL during short photoperiod. FSH-GH and FSH-PRL were the most numerous associations, and LH-FSC and FSH-FSC were the less abundant ones in both photoperiods. These results provide the morphological evidence for specific cellular associations between gonadotrophs and other cellular types of viscacha pituitary.
Thermal conductance and basal metabolic rate are part of a coordinated system for heat transfer regulation.	Thermal conductance measures the ease with which heat leaves or enters an organism's body. Although the analysis of this physiological variable in relation to climatic and ecological factors can be traced to studies by Scholander and colleagues, only small advances have occurred ever since. Here, we analyse the relationship between minimal thermal conductance estimated during summer (Cmin) and several ecological, climatic and geographical factors for 127 rodent species, in order to identify the exogenous factors that have potentially affected the evolution of thermal conductance. In addition, we evaluate whether there is compensation between Cmin and basal metabolic rate (BMR)-in such a way that a scale-invariant ratio between both variables is equal to one-as could be expected from the Scholander-Irving model of heat transfer. Our major findings are (i) annual mean temperature is the best single predictor of mass-independent Cmin. (ii) After controlling for the effect of body mass, there is a strong positive correlation between log10 (Cmin) and log10 (BMR). Further, the slope of this correlation is close to one, indicating an almost perfect compensation between both physiological variables. (iii) Structural equation modelling indicated that Cmin values are adjusted to BMR values and not the other way around. Thus, our results strongly suggest that BMR and thermal conductance integrate a coordinated system for heat regulation in endothermic animals and that summer conductance values are adjusted (in an evolutionary sense) to track changes in BMRs.
The influence of androgenic steroid hormones on female aggression in 'atypical' mammals.	Dimorphism on dominance and agonistic behaviour in mammals tends to be strongly biased toward males. In this review, we focus on a select few species of mammals in which females are as or more aggressive than males, and/or are dominant to males, and explore the role of androgenic hormones in mediating this important difference. While the data are not as clear-cut as those published on traditional laboratory mammals, our review highlights important endocrine substrates for both organizational and activational influences of steroids on female aggressive behaviour. We highlight areas in which further observations and experiments are crucial, especially the potential facilitative effects of androgens on female aggression. Finally, new and innovative techniques, including molecular genetics and receptor pharmacology, portend important insights into the ways in which androgenic hormones regulate aggressive behaviour in 'atypical' female mammals. 
The comparative effectiveness of rodents and dung beetles as local seed dispersers in Mediterranean oak forests.	The process of seed dispersal of many animal-dispersed plants is frequently mediated by a small set of biotic agents. However, the contribution that each of these dispersers makes to the overall recruitment may differ largely, with important ecological and management implications for the population viability and dynamics of the species implied in these interactions. In this paper, we compared the relative contribution of two local guilds of scatter-hoarding animals with contrasting metabolic requirements and foraging behaviours (rodents and dung beetles) to the overall recruitment of two Quercus species co-occurring in the forests of southern Spain. For this purpose, we considered not only the quantity of dispersed seeds but also the quality of the seed dispersal process. The suitability for recruitment of the microhabitats where the seeds were deposited was evaluated in a multi-stage demographic approach. The highest rates of seed handling and predation occurred in those microhabitats located under shrubs, mostly due to the foraging activity of rodents. However, the probability of a seed being successfully cached was higher in microhabitats located beneath a tree canopy as a result of the feeding behaviour of beetles. Rodents and beetles showed remarkable differences in their effectiveness as local acorn dispersers. Quantitatively, rodents were much more important than beetles because they dispersed the vast majority of acorns. However, they were qualitatively less effective because they consumed a high proportion of them (over 95%), and seeds were mostly dispersed under shrubs, a less suitable microhabitat for short-term recruitment of the two oak species. Our findings demonstrate that certain species of dung beetles (such as Thorectes lusitanicus), despite being quantitatively less important than rodents, can act as effective local seed dispersers of Mediterranean oak species. Changes in the abundance of beetle populations could thus have profound implications for oak recruitment and community dynamics. 
Adaptation for rodent pollination in Leucospermum arenarium (Proteaceae) despite rapid pollen loss during grooming.	Plants are adapted for rodent pollination in diverse and intricate ways. This study explores an extraordinary example of these adaptations in the pincushion Leucospermum arenarium (Proteaceae) from South Africa.
Continuous attractor network model for conjunctive position-by-velocity tuning of grid cells.	The spatial responses of many of the cells recorded in layer II of rodent medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) show a triangular grid pattern, which appears to provide an accurate population code for animal spatial position. In layer III, V and VI of the rat MEC, grid cells are also selective to head-direction and are modulated by the speed of the animal. Several putative mechanisms of grid-like maps were proposed, including attractor network dynamics, interactions with theta oscillations or single-unit mechanisms such as firing rate adaptation. In this paper, we present a new attractor network model that accounts for the conjunctive position-by-velocity selectivity of grid cells. Our network model is able to perform robust path integration even when the recurrent connections are subject to random perturbations. 
Identification of androgen binding-protein (ABP) from testis and epididymis of the seasonal rodent, Octodon degus (Molina, 1872).	ABP, a Sertoli cell secretory product, was identified in the seasonal rodent Octodon degus (Molina, 1872). It was shown to be present in cytosols from the testis and epididymis. It migrated with an Rf of 0.37 on nondenaturing polyacrylamide gels. Ligation of the vas efferens caused the disappearance of ABP from the epididymis and its accumulation in the testis, indicating its testicular origin. Binding to [3H]5 alpha-DHT was specific and completely reversible, with an apparent Kd of 3.5 +/- 0.4 X 10(-9) M. Half-times of association and dissociation were at 15 and 120 minutes, respectively. Binding equilibrium was achieved at 120 minutes. Steroid affinity relative to the best competitor, 5 alpha-DHT, was 0.27 for testosterone, 0.06 for 17 beta-estradiol, and 0.01 for cyproterone acetate. The presence and similar characteristics of ABP in a wide variety of mammals, including those with special reproductive strategies such as seasonal breeding, suggests that this protein may play a general role in the mechanisms regulating spermatogenesis, probably affecting the transport and concentration of androgens in the testis and epididymis.
Further demonstration of the ambient temperature dependence of the annual biological cycles in the edible dormouse, Glis glis.	In the male edible dormouse, it has been proposed that the annual temperature cycle is the major external factor triggering annual biological rhythms in this hibernating species. The present study was designed to explore (i) the effects of suppression of the annual thermoperiodic cycle under natural photoperiodic conditions, and (ii) the effects of acute exposure to a warm environment on basal plasma T4 levels observed during hibernation. The results of the first experiment demonstrate an absence of circannual cycles of hibernation, body weight, and endocrine thyroid and gonadal functions in the absence of annual fluctuations of temperature (constant warm environment at 24 degrees C) despite the maintenance of a normal photoperiodic cycle. On the other hand, acute exposure to 24 degrees C during the late stage of hibernation stimulated thyroid function as expressed by a consistent transitory rise in plasma T4 concentrations, which was maximal within 7 days and restored to basal levels after 14 days. These findings are in close agreement with the concept that in the edible dormouse, the annual thyroid cycle is synchronized with the annual temperature cycle. Moreover, the present study, combined with prior data indicating that the thyroid cycle induces the testis cycle, suggests that the ambient temperature cycle may be intricately involved in the control of neuroendocrine cycles in dormice, although the mechanism is still unknown.
Glucose oxidation by adipose tissue of the edible dormouse (Glis glis) during hibernation and arousal: effect of insulin.	1. The effect of insulin on U-14C-glucose oxidation by adipose tissue isolated from hibernating or arousing edible dormouse has been studied. 2. CO2 production derived from radioglucose was analysed point by point during in vitro rewarming (from 6 to 37 degrees C). 3. The rate of temperature increase was 2 degrees/5 min in order to mimic the rate of rewarming during the spontaneous arousal of the dormouse. 4. Insulin did not increase the glucose oxidation by the adipose tissue from hibernating dormouse whereas adipocytes from active animal present high insulin sensitivity. 5. These results suggest that insulin resistance occurs during hibernation.
Relationship between nucleoli and sex chromosomes during meiosis of the male wood lemming Myopus schisticolor: a fine-structure study.	Electron microscopy of ultrathin serial sections has been used to study the origin and fate of a mass of fibrillar material (FM) during spermatogenesis in the wood lemming Myopus schisticolor. In the course of early pachytene, one of the two nucleoli completely disappears. The remaining nucleolus loses its granular portion and acquires a "round body" encased by the fibrillar moiety, and the restructuring is accompanied by the appearance of FM in the close vicinity of this nucleolus. During diakinesis, the FM increases in volume and density and selectively infiltrates the chromatin of the XY pair. The intermingling of sex chromosomes and FM is at its maximum in metaphase I, giving the XY chromatin a patchy appearance. The FM separates along with the chromatin during the ensuing anaphase I and is shed from the chromosomes during early telophase I. By the time the nuclear envelope is reconstituted, the FM is completely separated from the chromatin. It disintegrates in the spermatids. The FM could not be stained using the Ag-NOR technique. In the wood lemming, X and Y chromosomes show an end-to-end association without a detectable synaptonemal complex. The FM may contribute to the attachment of the two sex chromosomes to each other. Thus, the FM is considered to be a substitute for a chiasma, which normally guarantees proper segregation in anaphase I.
Ultrasonic calling in rodents: a new experimental approach in behavioural toxicology.	Ultrasonic calls are emitted by many species of rodents in a variety of situations. In particular, infants commonly emit such calls when removed from the nest; the rate and intensity of calling are related to the degree of development of homoiothermy. The relevant biological significance of these signals is documented by their capability to promote parental behaviour, such as maternal retrieval. There is recent evidence that ultrasonic vocalization in rodent pups could be valuable as a bioassay in Behavioural Toxicology. In particular, the results of our recent studies together with those of other authors suggest that ultrasonic calls emitted by infant rats could be considered a useful test in detecting subtle effects of adverse treatment during development.
Comparative physiology of rodent pulmonary macrophages: in vitro functional responses.	Since toxicological testing of inhaled materials frequently requires utilization of several species, we have investigated pulmonary macrophage (PM) functional responses and compared the rat model with other rodents. Two strains of rats, three strains of mice, and one strain each of hamster and guinea pig were used in this study. The numbers of recovered cells by bronchoalveolar lavage generally correlated with animal body weight. The one exception was the Syrian Golden hamster from which increased numbers of macrophages were recovered. Cellular differential data obtained from lavaged cytocentrifuge preparations demonstrated that PM's account for greater than 97% of recoverable free lung cells for all species except the guinea pig, which contains a resident population of eosinophils. Cell morphology studies indicated that hamster PM exhibited the highest proportion of ruffled PM and demonstrated the highest phagocytic activity, whereas mouse PM phagocytic activity was significantly reduced compared with the other three species. In addition, chemotaxis studies showed that rat PM migrated best to zymosan-activated, complement-dependent chemoattractants, whereas hamster PM demonstrated an enhanced chemotactic response to N-formyl peptides. The results of these studies suggest that the rat may be the most efficient species for clearing inhaled particles, whereas hamsters and guinea pigs may best respond to bacteria.
Veterinary care of rodents and lagomorphs.	The species covered in this paper are the mouse, rat, golden hamster, gerbil (jird), guinea pig and rabbit, all of which are commonly kept as pets as well as for exhibition purposes, education and research. An understanding of the biology of these small mammals is necessary if they are to be satisfactorily restrained, examined and treated. They are susceptible to a range of infectious and non-infectious diseases. Small mammals have a high metabolic rate and a large body surface area. Anaesthesia and surgery may therefore present problems of hypoglycaemia and hypothermia. Various anaesthetic agents can be used and a range of surgical procedures may be safely and successfully performed.
Protection against fat cell hyperplasia in a hibernator, Glis glis.	Dormice, Glis glis, were fed a high-fat diet for 11 mo in one experiment: in another experiment they were fed a high-fat diet for 5 mo, either at room temperature (21.5 degrees C) or in a warm room (27 degrees C). Only in the latter group did adipocyte hyperplasia occur; this was significant in all the fat depots studied (inguinal, retroperitoneal, and gonadal). In the other groups there was no evidence of fat cell hyperplasia, despite weight gains from approximately 160 g (peaks on chow diet) to approximately 250 g (maximums on high-fat diet). Instead, fat cell size, assessed from biopsies of the inguinal area, became considerably enlarged. Taken together with earlier data from other species, the results suggest that hibernators are protected against fat cell hyperplasia. In dormice this protection appears to be present at all phases of their seasonal weight cycles. For species that experience several cycles of weight gain and loss in their lives, it may be adaptive to avoid increases in adipocyte number.
Cholinergic transmission in vas deferens.	Prazosin, haloperidol, propranolol or timolol had no effect on the electrically evoked muscular twitch. Atropine was able to antagonize competitively acetylcholine (pA2 = 9.29 +/- 0.30). The muscular twitch of the Octodon degus vas deferens was only partially abolished by atropine (53.2 +/- 0.72). The present results can be interpreted assuming that the Octodon degus vas deferens has one component muscarinic in its innervation.
Respiratory adaptations in diving mammals.	This report examines the evidence for the presence of oxygen stores in the lungs, blood and systemic musculature of diving mammals, the modifications in the respiratory functions of blood that may be important in utilizing the lung and blood oxygen stores, and the potential importance of the oxygen stores and the respiratory functions of blood in supporting short-duration, aerobic dives. Increasing oxygen stores by increasing lung volume does not occur in diving mammals. The long-duration diving whales have small lung volumes which results in lung collapse during dives and the seals dive following partial expiration which produces the same effect. The short-duration diving dolphins, porpoises and rodents have lung volumes comparable to terrestrial mammals, dive following inspiration and appear to use the lungs as an oxygen store. Adaptations in the oxygen affinity of the blood parallel the modifications in lung volume. Where the lungs do not represent a potential oxygen store the oxygen affinity is low, maximizing the unloading of oxygen while maintaining a high tissue oxygen tension. Where the lungs do represent an oxygen store, the affinity is high, maximizing the uptake of oxygen from the alveolar space. Increases in the concentration of respiratory pigment in the blood and in muscle are important adaptations in diving mammals. The blood oxygen stores in diving mammals vary from near normal to over three times normal for terrestrial mammals while the muscle oxygen stores vary from near normal to nearly ten times normal. The degree to which the blood and muscle oxygen stores are increased can be equated to the duration of the dive and demands for oxygen; longer duration divers and those with higher metabolic demands have greater oxygen stores than divers that remain submersed for shorter periods or have lower rates of oxygen utilization.
Acute dehydration: body water distribution in acclimated and nonacclimated Psammomys obesus.	Body water distribution after "acute dehydration" treatment (37 degrees C) was studied in Psammonys obesus before and after acclimation at 34 +/- 1 degrees C for 16-18 days. Determinations of water compartment volumes were performed on anaesthetized (thiopental sodium) nephrectomized animals. Plasma volume (PV) and extracellular volume (ECV) were measured by T-1824 and [14C]inulin, respectively. Total body water was determined after desiccating the animals. Albumin outflux was calculated from the half-life (T1/2) of T-1824 and total plasma albumin mass. Nonacclimated animals conserved PV as long as dehydration did not exceed 10-11% loss of body wt. This conservation was at the expense of ECV and was associated with diminished albumin outflux (T1/2 T-1824 approached infinity). With increased dehydration PV retention failed and a resumption of albumin outflux occurred. Acclimation resulted in diminished albumin outflux in both control and dehydrated animals (T1/2 T-1824 approached infinity). Most of the water lost during dehydration was of intracellular origin. It was concluded that reduction in permeability of the capillary bed during dehydration and acclimatization plays an important role in PV and ECV regulation.
Ambient temperature dependence of the body temperature and of the duration of the hibernation periods in the garden dormouse, Eliomys quercinus L.	Hibernation pattern in the garden dormouse (Eliomys quercinus) was studied at TA's of 0, 4, 6.5, and 9 degrees C during 6 months in each study winter. The animals were kept in darkness without food or water. Body temperature and the mean duration of the hibernation periods were ambient temperature dependent. The comparison of hibernation at different TA's was based on three features: the mean duration of the hibernation periods during the midwinter plateau, the existence of the initial and terminal phases with the changing length of the hibernation periods, and the differences between the sexes. The TA of 4 degrees C was the optimal TA for long-term hibernation. The difference between 4 degrees C and other TA's was greater in males. The TA's of 0 and 9 degrees C were near the lower and higher TA limits for long-term hibernation. Signs of the existence of a circannual rhythm were detected in the males toward the end of the hibernation season.
Photoperiodic effects on thermoregulation in a 'blind' subterranean mammal.	Thermoregulatory responses to changes in photoperiod were studied in the 'blind' mole rat Spalax ehrenbergi (Nehring). Acclimation of cold-sensitive individuals to short photoperiod (8L:16D) at an ambient temperature (Ta) of 22 degrees C increased their thermoregulatory capacity in cold conditions, when compared to individuals which were acclimated to a photoperiod of 12L:12D at the same Ta. Acclimation of cold-resistant individuals to Ta = 17 degrees C but with a photoperiod of 16L:8D caused a decrease in thermoregulatory capacity. Evaluation of the visual pathway through the visual-evoked potentials showed that the mole rat does not respond to flash stimuli and can thus be considered to be effectively blind.
Effect of bromocriptine treatment on the ovulatory response to oestradiol benzoate in the reflex ovulator, Microtus agrestis.	In some animals which ovulate spontaneously, oestrogen may stimulate prolactin secretion and high levels of prolactin may inhibit steroid-induced surges of LH. The possibility was investigated that such conditions were operating in the reflex ovulator Microtus agrestis to prevent spontaneous ovulation. However, bromocriptine treatment to suppress prolactin secretion did not enhance the poor ovulatory response to administration of oestradiol benzoate.
Cross-modal neuroplasticity in the blind mole rat Spalax ehrenbergi: a WGA-HRP tracing study.	Spalax ehrenbergi is a subterranean rodent possessing extremely degenerated eyes but a distinguishable dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) which projects ipsilaterally to a fair sized striate cortex. 2-Deoxyglucose and electrophysiological studies have shown that these areas are vigorously activated by auditory input. We show here, using the neuroanatomical tracer WGA-HRP, that the major source of the auditory input to the visual system is the inferior colliculus that, in addition to all its typical auditory targets, also projects to the dLGN. The visual thalamo-cortical pathway thereupon processes auditory information. This is the first naturally blind mammal in which the origin of auditory compensatory projections have been traced and described.
Pets as patients in the small animal practice. 1. Descent, physiology, husbandry, feeding]	Small pets as domestic animals and patients in veterinary practice have gained in importance during the last years. Their different habits and needs require exact knowledge of their descent and physiology, as well as husbandry and feeding requirements. Therefore, a survey of rabbit, guinea-pig, chinchilla, hamster, gerbil, mouse and rat as pets is given.
Vitamin D hydroxylases and their regulation in a naturally vitamin D-deficient subterranean mammal, the naked mole rat (Heterocephalus glaber).	The vitamin D hormone 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3) is generated by a series of hydroxylation steps in the liver and kidneys. We investigated whether naturally vitamin D-deficient subterranean mammals (naked mole rats, Heterocephalus glaber) employ the same enzymatic pathways, and whether these are regulated in a similar manner to that established for other mammals. Vitamin D3-25-hydroxylase in the liver and both 25-hydroxyvitamin D3-1-hydroxylase and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3-24 hydroxylase (1-OHase and 24-OHase) in the kidney were detectable in mole rats. As expected for vitamin D-deficient mammals, the 1-OHase activity predominated over the 24-OHase. After mole rats received a supraphysiological supplement of vitamin D3, 1-OHase activity was suppressed and 24-OHase activity was enhanced. Irrespective of vitamin D status, forskolin (a protein kinase A activator) and dibutyryl cyclic AMP did not alter the activity of either 1-OHase or 24-OHase. These findings suggest that the response of renal hydroxylases to parathyroid hormone was blunted. Phorbol esters, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA) and 1-oleoyl-2-acetylglycerol (OAG) (protein kinase C activators), suppressed 1-OHase activity. 24-OHase activity was induced by TPA but not by OAG. These effects were similar to those illicited by vitamin D3 supplementation but were additive in that they increased the responses shown in vitamin D-replete mole rats. These data confirm that naturally vitamin D-deficient mole rats can convert vitamin D3 to the hormone, 1,25(OH)2D3.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Predominance of beta 3-adrenergic component in catecholamine activation of lipolysis in garden dormouse adipocytes.	The beta 3-adrenoceptor (AR) agonists are potent activators of lipolysis in white adipose tissue. beta-AR agonists were tested here on the lipolytic activity of a hibernator, the garden dormouse (Eliomys quercinus L.). All the agonists exhibited full intrinsic activity; the most potent was the beta 3-AR agonist BRL-37344 [half-maximal effective concentration (EC50) = 0.8 nM]. The beta-antagonist idocyanopindolol (ICYP) also stimulated lipolysis of white adipocytes with the same potency and intrinsic activity as BRL-37344. The blockade of lipolytic effects of epinephrine or norepinephrine was similar to that of BRL-37344: the beta 1- and the beta 2-antagonists were quite ineffective. Total blockade occurred only with 100 microM bupranolol whatever the beta-agonist tested. This argues for the presence of a beta 3-component in the adrenergic-induced lipolysis. (-)-[125I]ICYP and (-)-[3H]CGP-12177 both labeled two populations of binding sites. On adipocyte membranes, binding of 0.6 nM (-)-[3H]CGP-12177 was inhibited with the following order of potency: isoproterenol > BRL-37344 > epinephrine. This order was modified at 20 nM, arguing for the beta-atypical nature of the low-affinity sites. Thus garden dormouse adipocytes possess beta 3-ARs, which are involved to an important degree in the adrenergic activation of lipolysis.
Evidence that primer pheromones do not cause social suppression of reproduction in male and female naked mole-rats (Heterocephalus glaber).	The role of chemical cues in mediating the reproductive suppression of nonbreeding males and females in colonies of naked mole-rats (Heterocephalus glaber) was examined by comparing reproductive activation in isolated nonbreeders with that of isolated nonbreeders maintained in olfactory and gustatory contact with their parent colony. Animals were either removed from their colony and paired directly with a member of the opposite sex from the same colony, or were removed, housed singly for 40 days, and then paired with a member of the opposite sex from the same parent colony that had also been housed singly for 40 days. Approximately half of these separated animals received a daily transfer of soiled bedding and litter from their parent colony. In females, there was no significant difference between the control and bedding transfer group, in the time taken from separation to the first sustained increase of urinary progesterone above 2 ng mg-1 Cr indicative of the luteal phase of an ovarian cycle (7.8 +/- 2.6 versus 9.4 +/- 2.0 days, respectively). In both control and bedding transfer groups, singly-housed females commenced ovarian cyclicity, revealing that the presence of a male was not required for reproductive activation and ovulation. In males, concentrations of both urinary testosterone and plasma LH increased after separation from their parent colonies in both control and bedding transfer groups, to reach values equivalent to those of breeding males.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
LH responses to single doses of exogenous GnRH by freshly captured Damaraland mole-rats, Cryptomys damarensis.	Pituitary function in reproductive and nonreproductive colony members of Damaraland mole-rats, Cryptomys damarensis, was investigated by measuring the LH responses to single doses of 2 micrograms exogenous GnRH and physiological saline in 29 females and 37 males (31 of these animals from two entire colonies). In females, basal LH concentrations were significantly greater in reproductive (n = 9) than in nonreproductive animals (n = 11): 7.6 +/- 1.0 versus 4.3 +/- 0.6 miu ml-1, respectively (P < 0.001). Reproductive females had a significantly greater LH response to 2.0 micrograms GnRH (7.6 +/- 1.0 to 37.7 +/- 6.2 miu ml-1; n = 9) than did nonreproductive females (4.3 +/- 0.6 to 11.8 +/- 1.0 miu ml-1; n = 11, P < 0.001). In contrast, there was no significant difference in basal LH concentrations between reproductive (n = 8) and nonreproductive males (n = 20): 5.3 +/- 4.3 versus 3.2 +/- 1.2 miu ml-1, respectively. There was also no difference in LH response to the administration of 2.0 micrograms GnRH between reproductive and nonreproductive males (5.3 +/- 4.3 to 21.8 +/- 8.6 miu ml-1; n = 8; versus 3.2 +/- 1.2 to 21.1 +/- 8.5 miu ml-1; n = 21; P = 0.5). When the results from the two entire colonies were analysed separately, LH responses to GnRH in the 11 nonreproductive females were less than in the two reproductive females. In contrast, the response of two reproductive males in the colonies did not differ from that of 16 nonreproductive males, although these latter comparisons could not be validated statistically.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Novel nuclear ribonucleoprotein structural components in the dormouse adrenal cortex during hibernation.	Adrenocortical cell nuclei of the dormouse Muscardinus avellanarius were investigated by electron microscopic immunocytochemistry in hibernating, arousing and euthermic individuals. While the basic structural constituents of the cell nucleus did not significantly modify in the three groups, novel structural components were found in nuclei of hibernating dormice. Lattice-like bodies (LBs), clustered granules (CGs), fibrogranular material (FGM) and granules associated with bundles of nucleoplasmic fibrils (NF) all contained ribonucleoproteins (RNPs), as shown by labeling with anti-snRNP (small nuclear RNP), anti-m3G-capped RNA and anti-hnRNP (heterogeneous nuclear RNP) antibodies. Moreover, the FGM also showed immunoreactivity for the proliferation associated nuclear antigen (PANA) and the non-snRNP splicing factor SC-35. All these nuclear structural components disappeared early during arousal and were not found in euthermic animals. These novel RNP-containing structures, which have not been observed in other tissues investigated so far in the same animal model, could represent storage and/or processing sites for pre-mRNA during the extreme metabolic condition of hibernation, to be quickly released upon arousal. NFs, which had been sometimes found devoid of associated granules in nuclei of brown adipose tissue from hi-bernating dormice, were present in much higher amounts in adrenocortical cell nuclei; they do not contain RNPs and their role remains to be elucidated. The possible roles of these structures are discussed in the frame of current knowledge of morpho-functional relationships in the cell nucleus.
CNS regulation of body temperature in euthermic and hibernating marmots (Marmota flaviventris).	Hypothalamic thermosensitivity of marmots was characterized during euthermia and hibernation. Hypothalamic temperature (Thy) was manipulated with chronically implanted, water-perfused thermodes while the animal's rate of oxygen consumption was continuously measured. The threshold Thy for eliciting an increase in metabolic heat production (MHP) and the proportionality constant (alphaMHP) relating rate of MHP to Thy were determined. In four euthermic marmots alphaMHP averaged -1.1 W-kg-1-degrees C-1. During the entrance into hibernation, as body temperature (Tb) declined from 36 to 8 degrees C, the threshold Thy for the MHP response progressively declined and was demonstrable at all times. The Thy of marmots in deep hibernation at an ambient temperature (Ta) of 5 degrees C plateaued near 7.5 degrees C, but threshold Thy for MHP showed a continuous slow decline of 0.2-0.4 degrees C a day, until one day prior to arousal. Proportional regulation of Tb was demonstrable at all times during deep hibernation. The average proportionality constant for the MHP response to hypothalamic cooling during deep hibernation in three marmots was -0.08 W-kg-1-degrees C-1. These results demonstrate that the hypothalamic regulator of Tb is active throughout hibernation and that there are progressive changes in its thermosensitivity.
Relationship of circadian activity and social behaviors to reentrainment rates in diurnal Octodon degus (Rodentia).	Previous experiments with female Octodon degus showed that entrained males (donors) inhibited and entrained females accelerated female phase-shifters' teentrainment rates of temperature and activity rhythms following 6-h advances. In this experiment, entrained males were housed with other entrained males or with phase-shifting females (experiencing a phase advance of the light-dark (LD) cycle) and entrained females were housed with other entrained females or with phase-shifting females. Pairs separated by a barrier were videotaped for 66 h to identify the behavioral interactions that underlie the opposite effects of donor social cues on reentrainment rates in females. As reported previously, female phase-shifters housed with entrained females reentrained faster than those "housed with entrained males following 6-h advances. Despite accelerated reentrainment, the timing or total durations of general activity, sleep, cage investigation, barrier investigation, and scent marking did not differ between female phase-shifters housed with male or female donors, although all phase-shifters increased investigatory behaviors compared to entrained animals. In contrast, male and female donors housed with female phase-shifters increased the frequency of scent marking and the duration of cage and barrier investigation compared with those housed with entrained same-sex conspecifics. Changes in scent marking and sniffing investigation suggest olfactory cues, not alterations in sleep or other daily rhythms, supply the critical social influence necessary to alter reentrainment rates in females. Daily and/or specific phase increases in motor activity did not correlate with accelerated reentrainment. We suggest that the salience of social cues perceived by female phase-shifters, female phase-shifters' sensitivity to cues and/or the strength of emitted donor cues may contribute to differential responses of the circadian system in females housed with male vs. female donors.
The associative parietal cortex and spatial processing in rodents.	It is widely acknowledged that the hippocampal formation has a central function in rodents' spatial memory and navigation. However, recent work has shown that other structures participate in specific spatial processing. That is so for the associative parietal cortex (APC). Although this neocortical region is far less developed in rodents than in humans and non-human primates, APC damage in rodents induces deficits which affect both egocentrically and allocentrically organized spatial behaviours. On the basis of behavioural (following parietal lesions) and neuroanatomical data, we propose that the APC could be at the interface between the level of perception of the physical world (egocentrically organized) and that of representations or maps (allocentrically organized) of this world. Reciprocally, the APC could also be involved in the transformation, in the opposite direction, of computations made on the basis of representations into motor actions necessary for the efficient execution of oriented behaviours within the physical world.
Sleep patterns of the volcano mouse (Neotomodon alstoni alstoni).	Sleep-waking patterns of the volcano mouse were studied under laboratory conditions. This rodent exhibits four states of vigilance: active wakefulness (Aw), quiet wakefulness (Qw), slow-wave sleep (SWS), and paradoxical (PS), or rapid-eye movement (REM) sleep. These states present, in general, the classic mammalian electrophysiological patterns. Although sleep periods were distributed at any time of the nychthemeral cycle, they showed the tendency to concentrate between 0800 and 2000 hours. The volcano mouse may be considered as a "good" sleeper, because it shows a relatively high percentage of sleep from the total recording time (TRT). Slow-wave sleep occupied 64.54 +/- 8.84% (mean +/- SD) of the total recording time, while 7.56 +/- 1.31% corresponded to rapid-eye movement sleep. The average duration of the rapid-eye movement sleep phase was 126.48 +/- 17.79 s, exhibiting an average recurrence of 49 +/- 9.28 phases throughout the nychthemeral cycle. Mean duration of the sleep cycle was 9.23 +/- 2.36 min. Quantitative data of the volcano mouse sleep may be considered adequate for its body size and characteristic of an animal which sleeps in secure places under free-living conditions.
Thermoregulatory responses of mesic and xeric rodent species to photoperiod manipulations.	Thermoregulatory mechanisms in rodents were found to respond to photoperiod manipulations. In desert adapted species, non-shivering thermogenesis NST-capacity (the ratio between the maximal VO2 response to noradrenaline injection and RMR, measured 1 degree C below the lower critical point) increased, as due to long scotophase acclimation. The aim of the present study is to compare the thermoregulatory responses of mesic rodents with those of desert ones, to photoperiod manipulations. Heat production, body temperature and NST were studied in the Levant vole, Microtus guentheri, the Migratory hamster, Cricetulus migratorius, and the Macedonian mouse, Mus macedonicus, acclimated to long (16L:8D) and short (8L:16D) photoperiod regimes at a constant ambient temperature of 25 +/- 1 degree C. The results of our study show that the three mesic species did not significantly change their NST capacity due to increase in the dark hours, as observed in desert species. However, in all three mesic species the increase in photophase resulted in a better resistance to high ambient temperatures by elevating the higher critical point and decreasing metabolic rates at the thermoneutral zone.
Photoperiodic responses of four wild-trapped desert rodent species.	The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of the photoperiod on reproductive status and body and lipid masses in four Egyptian desert rodent species (Dipodillus dasyurus, Acomys cahirinus, Gerbillus andersoni, and Gerbillus pyramidum). Adult males and females were housed in long days for 11 wk. At that time, one-half of the animals were killed and the remaining animals were moved to short days (SDs) for 11 wk. Some individuals of Gerbillus andersoni and Gerbillus pyramidum had access to running wheels. Testes index and spermatogenesis, but not testis mass, were decreased in all species in SDs. In contrast, SDs did not affect female reproductive status in all species. Exercise stimulated spermatogenesis but did not affect female reproductive status. SDs increased body and lipid masses in male Acomys cahirinus, but not in other species. Collectively, these desert rodent species were responsive to day length changes, but these changes alone did not induce robust alterations in reproductive status and body and lipid masses.
