The presence of health-risk behaviour in Roma family.	Roma people in B&H are a marginalised population group. Their health condition; is considerably worse than the condition of other population groups. The health problems of Roma people correlate with inadequate living and dwelling conditions. Roma children are facing the impossibility of being health care beneficiaries, because their parents are unemployed. The objective of this survey was to examine the family surrounding of children in age up to 8 years, including the social conditions under which they live and the presence of health risk behaviour. The research presents a descriptive cross-section study. We interviewed 1100 non-Roma parents and children and 383 Roma parents and children (in the communities of domicile Roma people) in B&H Federation. The results obtained indicate that only 17,8 % of Roma parents are secondary-school leavers, while remaining percentage covers those with incomplete primary school or without education at all, against 63,6% of non-Roma parents who have secondary education. The parents consider themselves good providers for their children (59,3% of Roma parents and 75% of non-Roma parents often play with their children). The Roma parents seek for medical attention for their children only in the cases when urgent health problems occur, such as fever/increased body temperature (one-half of the interviewed parents) or diarrhoea (31,9%). Physical punishment of children occurs more frequently in Roma families (23,7% - this is only the top of an iceberg) then in non-Roma families (11,4%). The parents usually beat children by using their hands or punish them by flogging. The domestic violence is accepted amongst Roma people and it has most sever impact on children, who suffer emotionally and physically. In the future, it will be necessary to create the kind of family environment that would enable improvement of health condition and decrease the behaviour that endangers the health of children.
Reconstructing the Indian origin and dispersal of the European Roma: a maternal genetic perspective.	Previous genetic, anthropological and linguistic studies have shown that Roma (Gypsies) constitute a founder population dispersed throughout Europe whose origins might be traced to the Indian subcontinent. Linguistic and anthropological evidence point to Indo-Aryan ethnic groups from North-western India as the ancestral parental population of Roma. Recently, a strong genetic hint supporting this theory came from a study of a private mutation causing primary congenital glaucoma. In the present study, complete mitochondrial control sequences of Iberian Roma and previously published maternal lineages of other European Roma were analyzed in order to establish the genetic affinities among Roma groups, determine the degree of admixture with neighbouring populations, infer the migration routes followed since the first arrival to Europe, and survey the origin of Roma within the Indian subcontinent. Our results show that the maternal lineage composition in the Roma groups follows a pattern of different migration routes, with several founder effects, and low effective population sizes along their dispersal. Our data allowed the confirmation of a North/West migration route shared by Polish, Lithuanian and Iberian Roma. Additionally, eleven Roma founder lineages were identified and degrees of admixture with host populations were estimated. Finally, the comparison with an extensive database of Indian sequences allowed us to identify the Punjab state, in North-western India, as the putative ancestral homeland of the European Roma, in agreement with previous linguistic and anthropological studies.
Evaluation of the action plan for Roma people in health area]	By virtue of the national program for Romanies and participation in the Decade of Roma Inclusion 2005-2015, Croatia has chosen its strategic standpoint toward programs of social inclusion of Romanies in four priority areas: housing, education, employment and health. The objectives of the Roma Action Plan (AP) for 2005-2015 in the health area focus on: * ensuring equal availability of health services through information about personal rights and health insurance options; * child health improvement and care, as well as mortality reduction; * raising health awareness and care in terms of safe motherhood, family planning and reproductive health; * financial support to schooling of Roma people in health professions In order to monitor the implementation of AP and measure the availability of health care and condition, certain indicators of the number and coverage of Romanies are crucial for each of the above objectives: indicators for the Roma informed about personal rights resulting from the mandatory health insurance; for Romanies who have health insurance; for vaccinated Romani children, for Romani newborns born in maternity hospitals, for prenatal and pregnancy health care in Romani women, for Romanies included in family planning, for the mortality rate and causes of death in Romanies, and for the Roma receiving scholarships for education in health professions. Most of these indicators are only obtainable through special studies, while routinely monitored indicators simply do not satisfy quantitative needs. Another problem is Romanies not stating their ethnic denomination. Consequently, routine Roma mortality and cause of death statistics are unreliable. At the state level, no specific indicators of implementation could be obtained for any of the above health objectives, while some were obtainable for specific units of local and self-government (Baranja, Medimurje and Primorje-Goranska County). According to the research, more than 50% of Romanies in Croatia are situated in Medimurje, where they make up 3.4% of overall population, but also 53% of recipients of unemployment compensation. In Medimurje County, local and EU funds were used to undertake certain measures of protection from infectious diseases, alongside health education in combating ignorance and mistrust of Roma towards vaccination. Baranja used state budget funds to conduct preventive examinations of Romani women who have no health insurance, and to educate them in health measures of safe motherhood, family planning and infant health care. Although the AP includes a series of measures for improving Romanies' health, it cannot be implemented or its effects measured without clearly defined organizers of activities, resources assigned for implementation, and process and outcome indicators.
