The effect of load angulation on fracture resistance of teeth restored with cast post and cores and crowns.	The purpose of this study was to determine if loading post-restored teeth at different angles would affect their fracture resistance. Thirty maxillary central incisors were treated endodontically to within 5.0 mm of the apex. Standardized cast post and cores were fabricated using plastic #4 Parapost patterns. Post and cores were cemented using zinc phosphate cement, followed by crowns of average dimensions. Ten teeth each were loaded at 110, 130, and 150 degrees to the long axis of the tooth. Mean failure loads were: 110 degrees = 372.4 N +/- 140.8 (SD); 130 degrees = 597.6 N +/- 138.5 (SD); 150 degrees = 1274.3 N +/- 429.9 (SD). There were significant differences in fracture resistance between teeth tested at the following angles: 110 degrees versus 150 degrees (P < .0001), and 130 degrees versus 150 degrees (P < .0001), but not for 110 degrees versus 130 degrees (P = .2016). Mean failure loads increased as load angle approached parallelism to the long axis of the teeth. Significant differences in fracture resistance of post-restored teeth can occur as a result of load angle.
Orbital cellulitis as a sole symptom of odontogenic infection.	A case of periapical infection resulting in unilateral maxillary sinusitis and cellulitis of the ipsilateral lower eyelid is presented. The sole symptom was right orbital swelling. The possible pathway for the spread of this type of infection predisposing factors and possible complications are reviewed. The value of radiographic examination and antibiotic therapy are also discussed.
Vertical root fracture in endodontically treated teeth: a review of 25 cases.	We sought to examine the clinical conditions under which 25 endodontically treated teeth underwent vertical root fracture (VRF) and to relate this condition to the time elapsed from endodontic treatment to fracture.
Microbial causes of endodontic flare-ups.	Inter-appointment flare-up is characterized by the development of pain, swelling or both, following endodontic intervention. The causative factors of flare-ups encompass mechanical, chemical and/or microbial injury to the pulp or periradicular tissues. Of these factors, microorganisms are arguably the major causative agents of flare-ups. Even though the host is usually unable to eliminate the root canal infection, mobilization and further concentration of defence components at the periradicular tissues impede spreading of infection, and a balance between microbial aggression and host defences is commonly achieved. There are some situations during endodontic therapy in which such a balance may be disrupted in favour of microbial aggression, and an acute periradicular inflammation can ensue. Situations include apical extrusion of infected debris, changes in the root canal microbiota and/or in environmental conditions caused by incomplete chemo-mechanical preparation, secondary intraradicular infections and perhaps the increase in the oxidation-reduction potential within the root canal favouring the overgrowth of the facultative bacteria. Based on these situations, preventive measures against infective flare-ups are proposed, including selection of instrumentation techniques that extrude lesser amounts of debris apically; completion of the chemo-mechanical procedures in a single visit; use of an antimicrobial intracanal medicament between appointments in the treatment of infected cases; not leaving teeth open for drainage and maintenance of the aseptic chain throughout endodontic treatment. Knowledge about the microbial causes of flare-ups and adoption of appropriate preventive measures can significantly reduce the incidence of this highly distressing and undesirable clinical phenomenon.
Nonsurgical repair of perforation defects. Internal matrix concept.	The internal matrix concept of perforation repair offers distinct advantages over classic techniques. The biocompatible matrix allows control of the repair material. The technique sensitivity involved with placement of the repair material is reduced and contamination of the restorative material with hemorrhage is prevented. In accessible locations perforations can be repaired predictably and, by comparison, the prognosis is improved greatly. Fewer surgeries or surgical alterations of teeth will be necessary, thus reducing the cost of treatment. A higher percentage of existing crowns can be salvaged if surgical alteration of the tooth is prevented. Microsurgical techniques currently are being developed and researched that may allow nonsurgical repair of inaccessible perforations. The scope of endodontic therapy, therefore, will be expanded.
The efficacy of pain control following nonsurgical root canal treatment using ibuprofen or a combination of ibuprofen and acetaminophen in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.	To compare ibuprofen, to an ibuprofen/acetaminophen combination in managing postoperative pain following root canal treatment. It is hypothesized that the drug combination will provide more postoperative pain relief than the placebo or ibuprofen alone.
Cultivable microbial flora associated with persistent periapical disease and coronal leakage after root canal treatment: a preliminary study.	To identify the cultivable bacterial flora in root filled teeth with persistent periapical lesions and to locate their distribution within the root canal system using an in vitro sampling protocol.
Increased width of the apical periodontal membrane space in endodontically treated teeth may represent favourable healing.	To examine cases showing increased width of the periodontal space (IW) at a long-term follow-up examination and to determine whether this finding could be explained by endodontic or nonendodontic factors.
Clinical, radiographic, and histologic perspectives on success and failure in endodontics.	There is a tremendous impact of multiple variables on the decision-making process in determining success or failure. The best approach to quality outcomes is to minimize the variables that can affect case adversity. Therefore, it behooves the clinician, who chooses to do endodontic therapy, to fully understand the level of treatment that is necessary to achieve success and to attain that level on a consistent basis. Additionally, the wise and prudent clinician should be able to assess completed treatment, with the proper integration of clinical and radiographic factors, in an environment that minimizes the shackles of bias and the dictates of cognitive dissonance.
Pain control in endodontics.	Pain control in endodontics is paramount to patient acceptance of this special area of dental care. Alleviating existing pain is the primary objective of root canal therapy. This paper focuses on the control of pulp and periradicular pain at initial presentation and subsequent to the first visit.
Endodontic retreatment.	Endodontic failure is a difficult diagnosis to confirm. Various other pathologic entities that must be ruled out by radiographs and tests have been discussed. Because of significant and, as yet, unresolved problems with surgical endodontic treatment, conservative retreatment should be given priority in treatment planning. Specialized techniques that can be used successfully to remove endodontic posts, gutta-percha silver cones, Thermafil, and paste filling materials from root canals have been discussed as well.
Periapical actinomycosis: a review.	Actinomycosis has increasingly been recognized as a cause of persistent or recurrent periapical disease associated with endodontically treated teeth. This case report shows the classic clinical picture of periapical actinomycosis: persistent periapical disease with recurrent sinus tracts. Although there was no pain or swelling after clinically acceptable initial endodontic treatment, a periapical lesion developed. After retreatment, the periapical lesion persisted, and a sinus tract developed. The sinus tract healed with antibiotic therapy but recurred within a few months. This cycle of sinus tract to antibiotic therapy to recurrence of the sinus tract repeated several times over a period of 5 years. Upon biopsy, periapical actinomycosis was diagnosed, where classic "sulfur granules" were demonstrated in the histologic examination of the periapical lesion. Antibiotic therapy for a period of 6 weeks was prescribed subsequent to the histologic diagnosis because of the possibility of spread of the actinomycotic infection into the maxillary sinus. Considerable healing was evident within 5 months of surgical and antibiotic treatment.
Prevalence of persistent pain after endodontic treatment and factors affecting its occurrence in cases with complete radiographic healing.	To (i) determine the prevalence of persistent dento-alveolar pain following nonsurgical and/or surgical endodontic treatment conducted in a teaching dental hospital and (ii) identify the risk factors associated with persistent pain after apparently successful root canal treatment.
Resistance to fracture of endodontically treated roots.	The root canals of 48 single-canal canine teeth were prepared by four different methods. The coronal lingual wall and root canal space were lowered to 2 mm below the buccal wall of the roots. The prepared root was placed into acrylic resin so that 12 mm of buccal root was exposed. A slowly increasing force was applied at the junction of the buccal wall and root canal space until fracture occurred. The force of fracture of the buccal root wall of each root was recorded and the results in each group were compared. All teeth fractured at the buccal wall/acrylic resin junction. Instrumentation of the root canals significantly weakened the roots. Obturation of the canals in conjunction with Roth's 801 sealer did not strengthen the roots. Obturation of the canals in conjunction with a glass ionomer sealer significantly strengthened the roots as compared with roots instrumented but not obturated and those obturated with gutta-percha and Roth's 801 Sealer.
Incidence and factors associated with endodontic inter-appointment emergency in a dental teaching hospital in China.	To assess the incidence of endodontic inter-appointment emergency (EIE) in a dental teaching hospital in China, and to correlate its occurrence with preoperative and treatment parameters.
Abscess of the orbit arising 48 h after root canal treatment of a maxillary first molar.	To discuss a rare, but severe complication arising following routine root canal treatment.
Vertical root fractures in endodontically treated teeth--Part II: Etiology and prevention]	The etiologic factors for vertical fractures in endodontically treated teeth are predisposing factors, such as loss of tooth material, anatomy of the susceptible teeth, moisture loss, previous dentinal cracks, and loss of bone support; and iatrogenic factors, such as excessive removal of radicular dentin as a result of endodontic and prosthetic procedures and improper selection of dowels. Identification of susceptible teeth and roots, proper selection and cementation of dowels, and avoidance of excessive force during condensation of gutta percha and in removal of tooth structure during endodontic and prosthetic procedures, are all measures that can be taken to prevent root fractures.
Damage to the inferior alveolar nerve as the result of root canal therapy.	Endodontic treatment of mandibular molar teeth has the potential to damage the inferior alveolar nerve via direct trauma, pressure or neurotoxicity.
Risk factors for developing apical periodontitis in a general population.	To identify and describe individual and tooth-specific factors associated with the incidence or the persistence of apical periodontitis (AP) in a general population.
Dental treatment and risk of variant CJD--a case control study.	Knowledge of risk factors for variant CJD (vCJD) remains limited, but transmission of prion proteins via re-useable medical devices, including dental instruments, or enhanced susceptibility following trauma to the oral cavity is a concern. This study aimed to identify whether previous dental treatment is a risk factor for development of vCJD.
Influence of the endodontic treatment on mechanical properties of root dentin.	This study evaluated the effect of endodontic treatment and storage time on the flexural and ultimate tensile strength of root dentin. Eighty bovine teeth were divided into endodontically treated (ET) and endodontically untreated (NT) teeth. The ET canals were instrumented and irrigated with sodium hypochlorite 1.0%. Roots were filled with gutta-percha and zinc-oxide/eugenol cement by the lateral condensation technique. Tests were performed as follows: t1, immediately; t2, 7 days; t3, 15 days; and t4, 30 days after extraction for NT groups or after extraction and endodontic treatment for ET groups (n= 0). Roots were axially cut into two halves, one half was used to obtain bars for performing the four-bending flexural test and the other half to obtain slices that were trimmed resulting in hourglass-shaped specimens for microtensile testing. Samples were submitted to the tests, and the data were statistically analyzed. Results indicated that endodontic treatment potentiated by time elapsed after endodontic treatment can affect the physical properties of dentin.
Five-year follow-up of a root canal filling material in the maxillary sinus: a case report.	This report describes the 5-year clinical and radiographic follow-up of an accidental extrusion of a root canal filling material into the maxillary sinus and emphasizes the importance of monitoring of similar cases. The most favorable prognosis is achieved by surgically removing the extruded material from the sinus. Excess zinc oxide-eugenol-based materials in the sinus might cause aspergillosis sinusitis, and this entity often needs many years to develop. In this case, endomethasone was the filling material; however, the patient refused to undergo any surgical intervention. After a follow-up period of 5 years, the patient had no symptoms and radiographic examination disclosed no pathologic changes in the antrum.
Surgical management of endodontic failures: indications and treatment results.	Two-hundred and twenty-four teeth with failures after conventional endodontic treatment were treated by periapical surgery by one surgeon and followed up for 1-8 years. Indications for surgery were: inaccessibility to the apical part of the root by a coronal approach due to posts, calcifications or procedural accidents. Cysts, a few acute cases and wide-open apices were also treated surgically. Healing was judged radiographically and classified into one of four healing groups: (1) complete healing, (2) incomplete healing (scar tissue); (3) uncertain healing, and (4) unsatisfactory healing. The grouping was performed separately by the oral surgeon and an endodontist. Deviating cases were then evaluated jointly, difficult cases and borderline cases were judged by an oral radiologist. Complete healing was observed for 76.6 per cent and incomplete healing (scar tissue) for 8.1 per cent of the teeth. The size of the latter group was strongly influenced by the number of cases with large preoperative rarefaction. A success/failure grouping of the material (success = complete and incomplete healing) revealed that 27 per cent of the retrofilled cases failed compared with 3.6 per cent in the orthograde group. The main conclusion is that retrofills should be avoided whenever possible.
Vertical fracture of root filled teeth restored with posts: the effects of patient age and dentine thickness.	To determine whether patient age contributed to the fracture resistance of teeth subjected to root canal treatment and post placement.
Clinical, radiographic, and histologic study of endodontic treatment failures.	One hundred fifty cases of endodontic treatment failures were studied clinically, radiographically, and histologically. Fifty-seven percent of the teeth were asymptomatic. Pain alone and/or associated with swelling was present in 21% of the teeth. There was no correlation between the size of periradicular rarefaction and the occurrence or severity of clinical signs and/or symptoms. Stainable bacteria were demonstrated in 69% of the teeth and were present mostly in the canal. The severity of periradicular inflammation was related to presence of stainable bacteria in the canal. Swelling and pain or a draining sinus tract was often associated with stainable bacteria inside the canal. The development of a radicular cyst associated with an endodontically treated tooth that has failed is not necessarily the cause of endodontic treatment failure.
Healing assessment of osseous defects of periapical lesions associated with failed endodontically treated teeth with use of freeze-dried bone allograft.	Freeze-dried bone allograft (FDBA) has been used extensively in periodontal surgery and in the treatment of pocket osseous defects resulting from inflammatory periodontal disease. No other endodontic investigation has used this type of graft material in the treatment of bony resorptive defects of the periapical lesions associated with failed endodontic therapy. Therefore this study was conducted with the use of FDBA, to assess healing ability of osseous defects after removal of periapical lesions associated with failed endodontically treated teeth. In all patients periapical lesions were surgically removed with retrograde amalgam seal and the graft material was then carefully packed without pressure into the bony defect. The lesions were fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and prepared for histologic examination. Long-term recall demonstrated bone regeneration and good tolerance of allograft material by the periapical tissues. The periapical lesions were either periapical granulomas or apical periodontal cysts. We conclude that FDBA is a biocompatible material of osteogenic potential and can be used effectively in treating osseous defects of periapical lesions associated with failed endodontically treated teeth.
Iatrogenic pneumomediastinum after endodontic therapy.	An unusual case of pneumomediastinum caused by subcutaneous emphysema occurring after the use of hydrogen peroxide solution during root canal treatment is described in a 30-year-old man. A thorough search of the available literature failed to reveal similar cases. A review of the literature, including pathogenesis, clinical and radiographic features, and management of this condition, is presented.
Pattern of endodontic treatment in children in a Nigerian tertiary hospital.	The aim of this study was to determine the frequency and reasons for endodontic treatment in patients aged 16 years and below seen at the Paedodontic clinic of the Department of Child Dental Health of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital.
A comparative study between cone-beam computed tomography and periapical radiographs in the diagnosis of simulated endodontic complications.	To compare cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) with periapical radiography for the identification of simulated endodontic complications.
Interproximal bone loss at contra-lateral teeth with and without root canal filling in periodontitis patients.	The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that teeth that are adequately endodontically treated develop more periodontal bone loss than their contra-lateral counterpart without root canal filling (RCF) in relation to the restoration margin (RM) in periodontitis patients.
Bacterial flora and extraradicular biofilm associated with the apical segment of teeth with post-treatment apical periodontitis.	Microorganisms are able to survive and cause persistent infection in the extraradicular area. The aims of this study were to investigate the primary bacterial flora and the localization of extraradicular biofilm in persistent apical periodontitis lesions.
Clinical complications in the revascularization of immature necrotic permanent teeth.	The purpose of this case series was to report on the use of a technique of revascularization for necrotic immature permanent teeth, several problems encountered, and solutions to those problems. Eighteen pulp revascularizations were performed in 2009 using the original protocol of revascularization  (adapted from the AAE/AAPD joint meeting in 2007 in Chicago). The protocol consisted of opening the canal and disinfecting it with sodium hypochlorite, sealing in a triple antibiotic paste for 2-6 weeks, re-opening, re-irrigating, creating a blood clot in the canal, and sealing with an MTA  barrier over the clot. Three problems were encountered during the treatment: (1) bluish discoloration of the crown; (2) failure to produce bleeding; and (3) collapse of the mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) material into the canal. Modifications to solve these problems included: changing one  of the antibiotics, using a local anesthesia without epinephrine, and adding collagen matrix to the blood clot.
Endodontic retreatment of dens invaginatus presenting with gutta-percha overfilling at the attached gingiva and chronic apical periodontitis: unusual clinical report.	This work describes the retreatment of an unusual case of dens invaginatus with gutta-percha overfilling at the gingival mucosa and chronic apical periodontitis in a 34-year-old woman. Initial periapical radiograph showed the presence of type II dens invaginatus with poor quality obturation, root perforation and chronic apical periodontitis of tooth 22.
The importance of early intervention in the treatment of dental infection.	With recent reports of increasing hospital admissions relating to dental infection, the authors believe it is time to re-visit the importance of its effective early treatment. A series of three cases is used to illustrate the potentially life-threatening progression of what, in the early stages, is an easily treatable condition.
Oral assessment of the "risk" patient.	Certain patients may be considered as being at "risk" with respect to the possibility of development of significant diseases of either a local or a systemic nature as a direct result of the presence of oral infection. The problems relating to the development of bacteremia subsequent to surgery in the patient with cardiovascular disease are well appreciated. Thought should be given to the possibilities of such developments in relation to the presence of periapical pathosis. It is demonstrated that a definitive evaluation of the status of the nonvital tooth cannot be made by the presently accepted methods of clinical and radiographic examination.
The endo-antral syndrome: an endodontic complication.	Infection of pulpally involved teeth near the maxillary sinus sometimes spreads into the sinus and causes serious complications. This pathological complex, involving both antral and periapical tissues, is referred to as the endo-antral syndrome (EAS). It includes diagnostic difficulties, treatment considerations, and occasionally persistent pathological antral alterations after nonsurgical endodontic therapy. Surgical measures are occasionally required to stimulate healing and preserve the teeth.
Root canal treatment with calcium hydroxide. I. Effect of overfilling and refilling.	Root canals of dog premolar teeth were negotiated and overfilled with calcium hydroxide paste. After 30 days, half of the treated teeth were refilled up to the apical limit. Root canals not filled were considered as the control group. Ninety days after the first treatment, histologic analysis showed more favorable results in the refilled root canals. The overfilling elicits calcium hydroxide resorption and the ingrowth of periapical connective tissue into the root canal.
Surgical treatment of iatrogenic canal blockages.	The endodontist of today is confronted with managing retreatment failures. Some of these can involve the retreatment of intracanal blockages. Many times, conventional endodontics cannot be redone, so a surgical approach may be needed. This article reviews four basic surgical techniques that can be used for retreatment of intracanal blockages. When the blockage cannot be removed, a standard retrograde amalgam technique or the Nygaard Ostby procedure of reverse instrumentation-obturation can be used. Two other surgical techniques used to eliminate the blockage are the apical loosening technique and a true apicoectomy procedure. Each of these procedures is reviewed, and the advantages and disadvantages are discussed.
Influence of the enlargement of the apical foramen in periapical repair of contaminated teeth of dog.	Root canals of dogs' premolar teeth were exposed to contamination and to the development of periapical inflammation over a period of 45 days. Root canals were overinstrumented 2 mm beyond the apical foramen with file No. 60 and were underfilled by 2 to 3 mm short of the roentgenographic apex. Ninety days after endodontic treatment, healing and ingrowth of connective tissue into the root canal occurred in 67.8% of the cases. These results suggest that the diameter of the apical foramen and the intensity of the canal contamination are determining factors for periapical tissue repair in cases of pulpal necrosis.
Management of posttreatment endodontic pain with oral dexamethasone: a double-blind study.	In a double-blind study, twenty-five subjects who received oral dexamethasone and twenty-five placebo subjects rated their postoperative pain 8 and 24 hours following initial endodontic treatment. The subjects who received dexamethasone reported statistically significantly less postoperative pain than the subjects who received the placebos. The question is raised as to whether oral corticosteroids are appropriate for routine management of posttreatment endodontic pain.
Current orientations in endodontics]	The Authors, after having underlined the importance of the endodontic discipline, that allows to obtain a reliable rehabilitation, illustrate the Schilder technique, used by them at the Odontoiatric Clinic, University of Brescia. The AA. take into consideration and face the problem of the reintervention on channels already treated, as well as the periapical infections complication. They conclude saying that endodoncy is an extremely difficult discipline, because it implies a lot of experience, practical ability and a constant application.
Endodontic management of mandibular lateral incisor fused with supernumerary tooth.	In this article we report a case of a mandibular lateral incisor in which 3 separate root canals were located. Clinical and radiographic examinations suggested that fusion had occurred between the mandibular incisor and a supernumerary tooth. The endodontic management of the tooth is described, and repair of an apical periodontitis had occurred after 9 months.
Symptomatology and clinical features of hypersensitive teeth.	Tooth hypersensitivity is associated with exposure of the dentine to the external environment of the mouth. This exposure can result from loss of enamel by processes including abrasion and erosion, or by denudation of the root surface as a result of gingival recession or periodontal treatments. Dentine hypersensitivity can be described as an adverse reaction or pain in one or more teeth resulting from either a thermal, chemical, bacterial or mechanical stimulus. Painful symptoms arising from exposed dentine are a common finding in adults and reportedly affect as many as one in every seven patients attending for dental treatment. Although predisposition to dentinal hypersensitivity is multifactorial, enamel loss as well as gingival recession may be more severe with advancing age. Because of the greater longevity of people who are also keeping their teeth longer, hypersensitivity is a growing concern. Clinical studies show that individuals with less than adequate plaque control experience more root hypersensitivity to air stimuli than others with better oral hygiene. Although plaque does not alter the pulpal threshold, i.e. has no effect on the pulp, it seems that microbial plaque has an effect on root sensitivity.
Effect of restorative procedures on the strength of endodontically treated molars.	Endodontically treated molar teeth are considered susceptible to fracture because of loss of tooth bulk. This study evaluated the significance of retaining intact marginal ridges and selective cusp coverage in preserving tooth stiffness during restoration. Strain gauges were bonded to four cusps of 36 intact extracted human lower molars. Teeth were loaded mesially and distally in a closed-loop servohydraulic system to measure stiffness. Endodontic access was followed by mesio-occlusal or mesio-occluso-distal preparation. Teeth were restored with either amalgam (no overlay), amalgam overlay, or gold overlay with partial or complete cusp coverage. Relative stiffness was calculated for all test conditions. Preserving a marginal ridge in molars did not fully conserve the strength of adjacent cusps; selective cusp coverage reinforced only the capped cusps; full occlusal coverage with gold or amalgam strengthened all cusps, but gold did so more consistently. It is more important to cover cusps than to preserve tooth structure (including a marginal ridge) in endodontically treated molar teeth.
Histological healing following surgical endodontics and its implications in case assessment: a case report.	Following extraction of a symptomatic mandibular premolar which had been subjected to two periradicular surgical procedures, significant apical healing was identified histologically. The implications of these findings are discussed in relation to contemporary advocated treatment regimens, case assessment, and interpretation for success and failure.
Patient comfort using three methods of endodontic therapy: traditional, paraformaldehyde, and hybrid sealer techniques.	This paper is not a study, but rather a clinical evaluation of three endodontic techniques based solely on subjective postoperative symptoms reported by patients. From 1968 to 1972 (four years), the author treated 452 teeth with a traditional endodontic technique. During 1973-1981 (eight years), he treated 625 additional teeth by instrumenting the root canals in the same manner as in the traditional method, but without the employment of sodium hypochlorite. In this procedure, the canals were obturated with a paraformaldehyde-steroid-zinc oxide and eugenol paste (PSZOE). A third "hybrid" endodontic technique was used in treating 522 other teeth during 1982-1991 (nine years). During the latter period, the teeth were instrumented in the same manner as in the first two modes of therapy, sodium hypochlorite was not used, and the root canals were filled with gutta percha cones covered with the PSZOE paste. Based on subjective reports of postoperative swelling and pain, there was a 10% incidence of swelling and a 20% incidence of pain in cases treated by the traditional technique and their root canals filled with gutta percha cones coated with Tubliseal by Kerr Dental Manufacturing Company of Detroit. Based on these same criteria, there was only a 1.6% prevalence of swelling and a 1.9% prevalence of pain when the root canals of 625 teeth were completely filled with a PSZOE paste. When the root canals of 522 other endodontically treated teeth were filled with gutta percha cones coated with PSZOE, postoperative swelling was reported in 1.5% of the cases and postoperative pain in 3.2% of the treated teeth.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A combined endodontic retrofill and periodontal guided tissue regeneration technique for the repair of molar endodontic furcation perforations: report of a case.	This is a report of a case in which the techniques of endodontic retrofill and guided tissue regeneration were used together to treat a perforation of the mesiofacial root of a maxillary left first molar (a strip perforation). After full-thickness flap reflection, the root received a retrograde filling and a large fenestration defect was surgically created to allow access to the furcal (distal) surface of the mesiofacial root. The roots were treated with tetracycline, the defect was filled with freeze-dried, demineralized, irradiated human cadaver bone, and the access fenestration was covered with a piece of barrier membrane. Healing was uneventful and the defect showed 100% bone fill at the time of reentry to retrieve the membrane 7 months after the initial surgery. Fifteen months after surgery the area appears clinically and radiographically healthy and the tooth has been employed as an abutment for a fixed partial denture.
Calcium hydroxide paste in the maxillary sinus: a case report.	A case is reported in which a perforation of the sinus floor of the maxillary sinus occurred with extrusion of a calcium hydroxide paste during routine root canal treatment of a maxillary premolar. All clinical manifestations are described as well as the results of a follow-up evaluation.
New techniques for removing separated root canal instruments.	Minimizing accidental fracture of root canal instruments through preventive measures is good practice. Having the right techniques and armamentarium to remove instrument fragments can greatly increase chances for success. Use of the operating microscope minimizes loss of tooth structure and reduces the need for surgery. Three cases are presented.
A dual approach to bleaching.	A procedure is presented which combines the walking bleach and the external thermocatylitic bleaching technique. This maximizes the bleaching potential of each and minimizes the possibility of subsequent external root resorption.
Dimensional changes during veneering procedures on discoloured teeth.	The aim of the study was to determine the dimensional changes of teeth when veneering procedures are involved.
Complications and primary failures related to fixed metal ceramic bridge prostheses made by dental students.	Porcelain fused to metal provides better aesthetics in fixed partial dentures than veneers with gold-resin that were used formerly. The aim of our study was to evaluate complications and primary failures of fixed metal ceramic bridge prostheses made by dental students. We studied 61 patients (32 women, 29 men, mean age 49 years, range 28-73 years) treated during years 1990-1993. Data were collected from the patient files. Altogether 82 bridges were made (mean 4.1 units, range 2-6), 221 abutments (mean 2.7, range 2-6) and 136 pontics (mean 1.6, range 1-4). Forty-seven cast cores were used in 29 bridges (mean 0.4 cores, range 1-3) and semiprecious attachments as an extra attachment in two bridges. Seven teeth were extracted due to complication and/or failure during endodontic treatment and root canal perforation during preparation. In two cases the abutment tooth was fractured by removing the old crown. Four unsuccessful bridges were remade and in seven cases the firing of porcelain was renewed. The study concludes that most common failures of fixed metal ceramic bridges made by dental students occur during root canal preparation of abutment teeth.
Rubber latex allergy and the endodontic patient.	Increasingly, patients with rubber latex allergy are being seen in dental offices. Health care workers, persons allergic to certain foods and those with certain medical histories are potentially latex-sensitive. This article presents the case of a patient with a history of severe rubber latex allergy and the associated management of an endodontically involved tooth. The possibility of the latex allergic patient being sensitive to gutta-percha obturation material is also raised.
Sealing ability of composite resin placed over calcium hydroxide and calcium sulphate plugs in the repair of furcation perforations in mandibular molars: a study in vitro.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate in vitro the sealing ability of various materials in the repair of furcation perforations in mandibular molars by measuring coronal microleakage with Indian ink. Ninety extracted mandibular molars were embedded individually into a plaster of Paris block, with the roots surrounded by a simulated periodontal ligament of silicone. Subsequently, a standard coronal access opening was prepared, the root canal orifices were located and a perforation was made with a size 012 round bur in a water-cooled high-speed handpiece directly into the centre of the floor of the pulp chamber. The perforations were repaired with amalgam, composite resin, calcium sulphate under composite resin and calcium hydroxide under composite resin. The teeth were coated with two layers of nail polish, leaving the access opening area uncovered, and immersed in Indian ink for 4 days at 37 degrees C. The teeth were sectioned longitudinally and dye penetration measured from the coronal level of the repair material to the apical end of the perforation. All experimental groups revealed dye penetration in varying degrees, but there was no significant difference amongst them (Kruskal-Wallis test P < 0.05). Calcium sulphate and calcium hydroxide prevented overextrusion of composite resin when used under this repair material.
