Application of human error theory in case analysis of wrong procedures.	The goal of this study was to contribute to the emerging body of literature about the role of human behaviors and cognitive processes in the commission of wrong procedures.
The intersection of evidence-based practice with 5 quality improvement methodologies.	In this department, the authors highlight hot topics in nursing outcomes, research, and evidence-based practice relevant to the nurse administrator. The goal is to discuss the practical implications for nurse leaders in diverse healthcare settings. Content includes evidence-based projects and decision making, locating measurement tools for quality improvement and safety projects, using outcome measures to evaluate quality, practice implications of administrative research, and exemplars of projects that demonstrate innovative approaches to organizational problems. In this article, the authors describe the intersection of various quality improvement methodologies with the evidence-based practice process. Five quality improvement approaches, plan-do-check-act, Six Sigma, Lean, root cause analysis, and failure mode effects analysis, are described and are used to frame examples.
What stops hospital clinical staff from following protocols? An analysis of the incidence and factors behind the failure of bedside clinical staff to activate the rapid response system in a multi-campus Australian metropolitan healthcare service.	To explore the causes of failure to activate the rapid response system (RRS). The organisation has a recognised incidence of staff failing to act when confronted with a deteriorating patient and leading to adverse outcomes.
Medical safety and staff mental health]	Improvement in patient safety is a high-priority issue of great social import. Several studies have reported that most adverse events are due to errors of hospital staff, and emphasized the necessity of promoting countermeasures against medical errors. Root cause analysis (RCA) has been implemented to prevent such errors. However, the retrospective and qualitative nature of RCA is a limitation in scientific analyses examining causal relationships. We showed that prospective design path analysis using structural equation modeling (SEM) model for both direct and indirect effects enabled statistical exploration of root causes and estimation of their impact on the outcome. Our findings suggested such analysis to be useful in devising countermeasures against medical errors. The SEM model constructed in this study suggested that one of the potential root causes was sleep disturbance. We conducted a randomized crossover study whether or not brief bright light (BL) exposure on workday mornings can improve health, performance and safety in nurses with rapidly rotating shifts. Significant improvements were noted in the BL periods compared with the non-BL periods for self-assessed sleepiness at 10 : 00 on day-shift days, self-assessment of night sleep for day-shift days and for fatigue. Mean response time evaluated using the psychomotor vigilance task test (PVT) showed significant improvement in the BL periods compared with the non-BL periods. The frequency of perceived adverse events and near misses was also lower in the BL than in the non-BL periods, but not significantly so, possibly indicating that the one-month observation period was too short to achieve any significant success. Despite our study's limitations, we have effectively demonstrated the potential for preventing medical error risk among night-shift workers.
Root cause analysis of problems in the frozen section diagnosis of in situ, minimally invasive, and invasive adenocarcinoma of the lung.	Frozen sections can help determine the extent of surgery by distinguishing in situ, minimally invasive, and invasive adenocarcinoma of the lung.
After an inpatient suicide: the aim and outcome of review mechanisms.	To describe the intent and process of reviews undertaken following the death by suicide of an inpatient and suggest possible improvements.
Root cause analysis reports help identify common factors in delayed diagnosis and treatment of outpatients.	Delays in diagnosis and treatment are widely considered to be threats to outpatient safety. However, few studies have identified and described what factors contribute to delays that might result in patient harm in the outpatient setting. We analyzed 111 root cause analysis reports that investigated such delays and were submitted to the Veterans Affairs National Center for Patient Safety in the period 2005-12. The most common contributing factors noted in the reports included coordination problems resulting from inadequate follow-up planning, delayed scheduling for unspecified reasons, inadequate tracking of test results, and the absence of a system to track patients in need of short-term follow-up. Other contributing factors were team-level decision-making problems resulting from miscommunication of urgency between providers and providers' lack of awareness of or knowledge about a patient's situation; and communication failures among providers, patients, and other health care team members. Our findings suggest that to support care goals in the Affordable Care Act and the National Quality Strategy, even relatively sophisticated electronic health record systems will require enhancements. At the same time, policy initiatives should support programs to implement, and perhaps reward the use of, more rigorous interprofessional teamwork principles to improve outpatient communication and coordination. 
A framework for analysis of sentinel events in medical student education.	Although previous studies have addressed student factors contributing to dismissal or withdrawal from medical school for academic reasons, little information is available regarding institutional factors that may hinder student progress.
