The relationship between individual differences in defensive style and concept formation.	The relationship between defensive style and concept formation with aggressive and neutral stimuli was investigated. Very strong relationships were found between the use of avoidant and repressive defenses and the number of errors made in acquiring and utilizing an aggressive concept. This relationship was not found for the neutral concept. The results suggest the importance of directing attention to the relevant stimulus dimension in efficient concept formation. Insofar as defensive style involves a particular way of deploying attention (e.g. avoidance of a particular content) and insofar as the affective nature of the stimulus material lends itself to the elicitation of defensive reactions, individual differences in defensive style can serve as a robust predictor of efficiency of concept formation.
Stability of unusual verbalizations on the Rorschach for outpatients with schizophrenia.	Rorschach protocols of 50 outpatients with schizophrenia who had been tested twice with an average interval of 6.4 years between administrations were scored blind by graduate students trained to detect Unusual Verbalizations (UVs). Scoring reliabilities were excellent and ranged from .93 to .99 for the WSUM6. There were no significant differences between mean group UV scores obtained at the first testing (T1) and the second testing (T2), which attests to the persistence of thought disorder in schizophrenia. The correlations between T1 and T2 testings were, however, modest at best. Deviant Verbalizations, the least pathological of the UV categories, showed the highest test-retest relationship at .50. Tentative explanations for these findings were advanced.
Sex-typed responses in the Rorschach protocols of children with gender identity disorder.	A coding system was developed to measure sex-typed responses in the Rorschach protocols of children with gender identity disorder (n = 79). Their responses were compared to that of sibling (n = 25), psychiatric (n = 26), and normal (n = 28) controls. Results show that children with gender identity disorder gave significantly more cross-sex responses than same-sex responses, whereas the psychiatric and normal controls gave significantly more same-sex responses than cross-sex responses. The siblings did not differ in the number of same-sex and cross-sex responses. Results are discussed with regard to various assessment issues in the study of children with gender identity disorder.
The Rorschach and the DSM-III-R antisocial personality: a tribute to Robert Lindner.	This study utilized the Rorschach as a psychometric measure for understanding Antisocial Personality Disorder (American Psychiatric Association, 1987). Comprehensive System (Exner, 1986) Rorschach data for a sample of 60 ADP subjects and Rorschach object relations and defensive operations for 22 psychopathic APD (P-APD) and 21 nonpsychopathic APD (NP-APD) subjects are presented and discussed. The data support the absence of anxiety and attachment and the presence of pathological narcissism and borderline personality organization in P-APDs. The Rorschach's ability to differentiate antisocial groups based on level of psychopathy (Hare, 1980, 1985) strongly supports the need to use psychopathy as an independent measure when one is studying APD.
Academic learning problems and Rorschach indices: a Spanish replication.	This study compared the Rorschach responses of Spanish children who were and who were not judged by their teachers to be experiencing significant reading problems. With controls exacted on gender, social class, chronological age, and IQ, the responses of 15 pairs of subjects were examined; group differences in perceptual accuracy, self-concept, and reactivity were assessed. Consistent with American studies involving profiles of learning disabled and nonlearning disabled subjects, despite some differences being small, responses of children with reading problems were characterized by lower perceptual accuracy and lower self-concept; inconsistent findings appeared on measures of reactivity. Empirical problems in conducting cross-cultural investigations with the Rorschach are discussed.
Case illustration of a boy with nonverbal learning disorder and Asperger's features: neuropsychological and personality assessment.	I present a case study of a latency-age boy referred for assessment of a nonverbal learning disability/disorder (NLD) who also had features of Asperger's syndrome (AS). I review NLD terminology, presumed brain-behavior relationship, neuropsychological profile, and diagnosis/classification issues. I discuss the challenge of differentiating NLD from AS in relation to the client's pattern of visual-spatial, communication, social-emotional, and behavioral NLD correlates. I integrate neuropsychological and personality assessment data with interviews, observations, prior testing, and input from teacher and therapist in formulating a diagnostic impression. I discuss Rorschach (Exner, 2003) and neuropsychological consultations in relation to subtle language and interpersonal features of the client's communication style. I provide parent feedback at 18 and 24 months posttesting. I discuss implications relative to a model of school neuropsychological assessment that includes the Rorschach test.
When Homer nods: an examination of some systematic errors in Rorschach scholarship.	Considerable evidence has demonstrated that many scientists attempt to avoid disconfirmation of a favored theory. This tendency sometimes characterizes the scholarship of both those who favor the Rorschach (Exner, 2000) method and those who find it seriously flawed. Psychologists who use the Rorschach impressionistically are not deterred by the literature demonstrating that this procedure has thus far shown little established validity. Those who criticize the Rorschach dismiss the objectivity of the American Psychological Association (APA) Blue Ribbon Panel, which concluded that the test has proven validity, and by implication, they also dismiss the APA peer review process that approved the panel report. In addition, they ignore over 400 published studies showing the Rorschach has acceptable validity when responses are scored objectively.
The validity of the Rorschach for assessing cognitive and affective changes.	Exner's (1985) Rorschach norms of children 5 to 16 years old were used to test predictions based on developmental theory, previous cognitive studies, and Achenbach and Edelbrock's (1981) norms on behavior problems in children. In the cognitive realm, the Rorschach scores reflected the predicted increase in complexity, integration, and precision of thinking; richness of ideas; conformity to socially acceptable ways of thinking; and the concomitant decrease in unrealistic, egocentric ideas. In the affective realm, the Rorschach scores reflected the predicted decrease in uncontrolled expression of affect, increase in controlled expression of affect, and increase in inwardness. However, the Rorschach scores failed to reflect the predicted decrease in anxiety and increase in depression. Finally, there was no evidence of increased accuracy of perception.
Rorschach evaluation of adolescent bulimics.	It has become apparent that the excessive dieting engaged in by many girls when they reach puberty frequently serves as an impetus for the later development of eating disorders. While the existence of bulimia nervosa has been well documented in late-adolescent girls, only minimal research has been devoted to delineating the personality characteristics that distinguish bulimics from normal adolescents. The present study utilized the Rorschach to contrast 12 DSM-III-R diagnosed adolescent bulimics with 12 female adolescent controls. Exner's (1986) Comprehensive System was used for scoring the protocols. Statistically significant group differences were detected on both the overall Depression and the Schizophrenia Indices, as well as on several subcomponents of each. Additionally, bulimics averaged a greater number of aggression responses. The data suggested that the adolescent bulimics were more depressed, self-punitive, and negativistic than their peers, and that they had more disordered thoughts, inaccurate perceptions, and impaired judgment. The cognitive disturbances were not limited to the areas of food and weight. The results are alarming for this young population, particularly since the severity of symptoms certainly will increase over time if left untreated. Recommendations are made for early symptom identification and intervention.
A Rorschach investigation of mothers of behaviorally disturbed infants.	This investigation focuses on one facet of the interactional family, parent-child, mother-infant matrix of behaviorally disturbed infants: the personality of mother as primary caregiver. Rorschach test behavior of mothers (N = 30) of behaviorally disturbed infants were compared with two normative samples. The Rorschach test was found to indicate certain atypical psychological patterns among these mothers. Differences emerged in intellectual sphere variables: number of responses (R), common detail responses (D), rare detail responses (Dd), number of accurate form percepts (F+), percentage of form percepts that are accurate (F+%), percentage of responses with animal content (A%), and popular percepts (P). Other response trends emerged in the affective sphere: percentage of pure form responses (F%) and in the interpersonal sphere: whole human content (H) and the ratio of the whole human content to human detail content (H:Hd), as well as to the test as a whole. Based on these results, hypotheses are generated for further investigation, particularly of traits in the areas of cognitive processing and the capacity for interpersonal relations.
MMPI correlates of Exner's Egocentricity Index in an adolescent psychiatric population.	This research examined the relationship between Exner's Egocentricity Index (EI) and Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) Scales 2, 4, and 9 in an adolescent psychiatric population. Subjects with a low EI had significantly higher MMPI Depression (D) scale elevations compared to those with a high EI. Furthermore, of the adolescents who had Scale 2 scores in the clinical range, 68% also had an EI in the bottom half of the distribution. There was no relationship between the EI and MMPI scales 4 and 9. These findings are discussed in light of the generally poor correlations between MMPI and Rorschach variables.
Research on the clinical usefulness of the Rorschach: 2. The assessment of cerebral dysfunction.	A review of research on the use of the Rorschach in the assessment of cerebral dysfunction indicated that the Rorschachs of patients with cerebral dysfunction do not manifest any characteristic response in terms of percentages, ratios, or any unique response to any one of the stimulus determinants of the blots (color, shading, the stimulus for movement). The patient with cerebral dysfunction does manifest a unique style of thinking; responses tend to be concrete, perseverative, and stereotypic. This finding is similar to that found with schizophrenics where research, summarized by Frank in 1990, also indicated no uniquely 'objective' response style but reflected a unique cognitive style. These two reviews taken together suggest that the better way to use Rorschach data in clinical work is as an opportunity to assess patients' thinking as opposed to the Rorschach being used as a psychometric device, yielding 'numbers.'
A proposed classification scheme for Rorschach autisms.	Exner's WSUM6 score includes only a select few of the Rorschach "autisms" (i.e., perceptual-cognitive distortions) observed by various authors over the years. A logical and clinically relevant classification scheme was presented which is inclusive enough to capture most types of Rorschach autisms. These include relationship errors (RELERs), hyperattentional errors (HYPERs), and errors of underattention (HYPOs). Empirical comparisons among diagnostic groups on these three categories of autisms were recommended.
Toward a training model for Rorschach scoring revisited: a follow-up study on a training system for interscorer agreement.	A standardized method for training in Rorschach scoring using the Perceptanalytic system showed high interscorer reliability in a classroom setting by 1984. To assess whether this model for training would continue to yield stronger interscorer agreement with continued use in vivo data from classroom training were gathered over a six-year follow-up period (1985-1991). For the subjects, 167 students in a graduate clinical psychology training program, results indicated the system produces high interscorer agreement at both Level I (relatively clear and simple responses) and Level II (very complex or pathological responses). Over-all percent of agreement for 54,329 combined coding and summarizing operations attained a M of 90% (SD = 6.0%). Sufficiently high interscorer reliability in Rorschach scoring can be attained in a classroom setting to support the use of the Perceptanalytic method for training doctoral students. Further research on training systems for the Rorschach as well as some speculative heuristic hypotheses about the nature of the learning process for Rorschach scoring are suggested.
Aging and illusory correlation in judgments of co-occurrence.	This study examined the influence of aging on illusory correlation in judgments of co-occurrence. Older and younger Ss judged the probability of co-occurrence for events associated with preexisting expectancies after receiving nonsalient or salient information about the true probabilities of co-occurrence of the events. Results showed that when current information on event co-occurrence was not salient, preexisting expectancies strongly influenced the judgments of both younger and older Ss. However, when this information was salient, younger Ss' judgments reflected more accurate adjustment to the probabilistic relationships in the information than did older Ss' judgments. This age difference may be related to changes in memory processes that accompany increasing age and to differences in judgment processes necessitated by these changes.
Construct validity of a self-report measure of alexithymia in a psychiatric inpatient sample.	This study examined the construct validity of a widely used self-report measure of alexithymia in a mixed-sex sample of 101 psychiatric inpatients (62 women and 39 men). Contrary to expectations, scores on Shipko and Noviello's (1984) alexithymia scale (SNALEX) were: (1) correlated positively with a Rorschach index of verbal productivity; (2) unrelated to a Rorschach index of adaptive use of fantasy; (3) correlated negatively with scores on the MMPI L and K scales and correlated positively with scores on the MMPI F scale; and (4) correlated negatively with subject age. In addition, SNALEX scores were correlated negatively with scores on Klieger and Kinsman's (1980) alexithymia scale (KKALEX) in subjects of both sexes. These results do not support the construct validity of the SNALEX as a measure of alexithymia is psychiatric inpatients.
The Rorschach Schizophrenia Index (SCZI): an examination of reliability, validity, and diagnostic efficiency.	In this study, we investigate the reliability, validity, and diagnostic efficiency of the Rorschach Schizophrenia Index (SCZI) in relation to the accurate identification of patients diagnosed with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th ed. [DSM-IV], American Psychiatric Association, 1994) schizophrenia or other psychotic disorder (PD) according to the methodological recommendations offered by Wood, Nezworski, and Stejskal (1996). Seventy-eight patients who were found to meet DSM-IV criteria for a PD or Axis II disorder (PD = 33; borderline personality disorder = 23; Cluster A personality disorders = 9; Cluster C personality disorders = 13) and 50 nonclinical participants were compared on the SCZI. The results of this study indicate that the SCZI is internally consistent and can be reliably scored. In addition, the SCZI was used effectively in differentiating PD patients from patients with an Axis II disorder and from the participants in the nonclinical sample. Also, the SCZI variable was found to be empirically related to the presence of a DSM-IV diagnosis of PD. Finally, this variable could be employed for classification purposes in ways that were clinically meaningful in the diagnosis of a PD. Conceptual and methodological issues are discussed in relation to the assessment of psychosis.
