Resolution of granulomatous rosacea after eradication of Helicobacter pylori with clarithromycin, metronidazole and pantoprazole.	The aetiopathogenetic role of Helicobacter pylori in rosacea remains controversial. We report a 27-year-old man with a 4-year history of intractable rosacea. Histopathology showed epithelioid granulomas. H. pylori infection was proven directly on gastroscopy and by serological testing. Treatment with clarithromycin, metronidazole and pantoprazole eradicated H. pylori. Skin changes were markedly improved by the end of this therapy and had resolved completely 2 months later. The patient has been followed up, and has remained free of symptoms for 3 years. We suggest that H. pylori may be involved in the aetiopathogenesis of granulomatous rosacea.
Restoration of facial form and function after severe disfigurement from burn injury by a composite facial allograft.	Composite facial allotransplantation is emerging as a treatment option for severe facial disfigurements. The technical feasibility of facial transplantation has been demonstrated, and the initial clinical outcomes have been encouraging. We report an excellent functional and anatomical restoration 1 year after face transplantation. A 59-year-old male with severe disfigurement from electrical burn injury was treated with a facial allograft composed of bone and soft tissues to restore midfacial form and function. An initial potent antirejection treatment was tapered to minimal dose of immunosuppression. There were no surgical complications. The patient demonstrated facial redness during the initial postoperative months. One acute rejection episode was reversed with a brief methylprednisolone bolus treatment. Pathological analysis and the donor's medical history suggested that rosacea transferred from the donor caused the erythema, successfully treated with topical metronidazol. Significant restoration of nasal breathing, speech, feeding, sensation and animation was achieved. The patient was highly satisfied with the esthetic result, and regained much of his capacity for normal social life. Composite facial allotransplantation, along with minimal and well-tolerated immunosuppression, was successfully utilized to restore facial form and function in a patient with severe disfigurement of the midface.
Carcinoid tumor with revealed by skin manifestation]	Carcinoid tumours are often diagnosed late because a large quantity of vasoactive peptides must be accumulated to express the carcinoid syndrome.
Demodex mites in acne rosacea.	The hair follicle mites Demodex folliculorum and Demodex brevis and their role in the pathogenesis of rosacea have been the subject of much debate in the past. We studied the prevalence of Demodex mites in facial skin biopsies obtained from 80 patients with rosacea, 40 with facial eczematous eruption and 40 with lupus erythematosus discoides. The mite prevalence in the rosacea group (51%) was significantly higher than in the rest of the study population (eczema 28% and lupus discoides 31%). Demodex mites were found on all facial sites. The most infested areas in the whole study group were the forehead (49%) and the cheeks (44%). Males were more frequently infested (59%) than females (30%). We did not find any significant difference in mite counts of infested follicles between rosacea and the control group. A lympho-histiocytic cell infiltration was seen around the infested hair follicles. Our results suggest that Demodex mites may play a role in the inflammatory reaction in acne rosacea.
