Rosacea and contact allergy to cosmetics and topical medicaments--retrospective analysis of multicentre surveillance data 1995-2002.	The role of contact allergy in rosacea has rarely been investigated. In this retrospective study, 361 out of 76,697 patients tested and documented by the Information Network of Departments of Dermatology between 1995 and 2002 had rosacea. Patch tests included standard series and constituents of cosmetics and topical medicaments. 118/361 had additionally been patch tested with their own cosmetics/medicaments. Positive reactions occurred to nickel (II) sulfate in 9.3%, fragrance mix in 8.8%, thimerosal in 6.9%, Myroxylon pereirae resin in 5.9%, potassium dichromate in 4.6% and propolis in 2.8%. Whereas rosacea patients had a significantly higher risk of contact allergy to propolis compared to the remaining patients, in an age- and sex-adjusted analysis, contact allergy to nickel was significantly less frequent in this group. For Lyral, the risk was elevated, albeit not significantly. Only 2/329 patients were positive to neomycin sulfate and 1/100 to gentamicin sulfate, among the panel of (topical) antibiotics tested. Among 118 patients tested with their own products, 3 were tested to metronidazole, 1 reacting positively. Irritant or doubtful patch test reactions were provoked by various substances (vehicles, oxidants and preservatives of various creams), which might also be clinically important, considering the heightened sensitivity of rosaceous skin.
Steroid-aggravated rosacea: successful therapy with pimecrolimus]	Steroid-induced erythema in rosacea is a therapeutic challenge because of its tendency to rebound and the local characteristics of the facial skin. We describe 3 cases of steroid-induced rosacea with the typical history of steroid abuse with tachyphylaxis. Steroids with increasing potency had to be used with increasing frequency in the course of treatment in order to achieve a response. Acute exacerbations followed any attempt at withdrawal. The steroid treatment was discontinued and therapy with pimecrolimus cream 1% twice daily initiated. This brought rapid and marked improvement within a few days. The cases show that the calcineurin antagonist pimecrolimus offers an effective and well-tolerated therapy option in the acute therapy of steroid-aggravated facial dermatoses.
An open-label pilot study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of topically applied pimecrolimus cream for the treatment of steroid-induced rosacea-like eruption.	Steroid-induced rosacea-like eruption is characterized by facial rosacea-like dermatitis in patients that have been treated with topical steroids for relatively long periods.
Possible side effects of topical steroids.	When used properly in controlled situations, topical corticosteroids provide dramatic relief in distressing disorders such as eczema, psoriasis and seborrheic dermatitis. The fluorinated preparations are associated with a variety of side effects, including acne, striae, premature aging of the skin, hypertrichosis, perioral dermatitis, glaucoma and even adrenal suppression. Except for the severe, acute dermatoses, a nonfluorinated steroid is the better choice because of the relative lack of side effects and lower cost.
