Instability after prosthetic arthroplasty of the shoulder.	Instability of the shoulder is a common complication after prosthetic arthroplasty and accounts for approximately 4% to 5% of case series with mixed preoperative diagnoses. Several anatomic abnormalities and risk factors are associated with this problem. The direction of instability often is associated with the more common types of structural abnormalities.
Sonographic study of painful shoulder.	To identify sonographically the site and entity of alterations in a high number of patients with shoulder pain.
Rotator cuff repair. A biomechanical comparison of three techniques.	The most common complication of rotator cuff repair is structural failure at the repair site. A single-layer repair does not adequately reproduce the anatomic insertion and may not optimize fixation strength.
The impact of rotator cuff pathology on isometric and isokinetic strength, function, and quality of life.	The purposes of this study were to determine the reliability of strength and self-reporting measures, the relationship of different strength measures to function, and the impact of rotator cuff pathology on patients' quality of life. Patients with nonoperated rotator cuff pathology (n = 36) and unaffected control subjects (n = 48) were assessed by use of the LIDO dynamometer to determine isometric and isokinetic (concentric and eccentric) strength of the shoulder rotators. The Shoulder Pain and Disability Index and Short Form-36 were self-reported by patients. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) were used to assess reliability, and Pearson correlations and multiple linear regression were used to determine the relationship between strength and function. The findings of this study include the following: (1) measures of self-reported physical disability had high reliability (ICC = 0.89); (2) the LIDO dynamometer reliably measured internal and external shoulder rotation strength in both concentric and isometric modes of testing (ICC = 0.78-0.94), whereas eccentric muscle actions had lower reliability; (3) all shoulder rotation strength measures were predictive of disability, with isometric external rotation strength being the most predictive (r = 0.56); and (4) the presence of rotator cuff pathology was highly predictive of impaired physical health quality of life (R(2) = 0.71, P < .001).
The prevalence of rotator cuff weakness in patients with injured hands.	The purpose of this study was to document bilateral rotator cuff strength in patients with unilateral hand or wrist disorders.
Stability and instability of the glenohumeral joint: the role of shoulder muscles.	Shoulder muscles contribute to both mobility and stability of the glenohumeral joint. To improve treatments for shoulder instability, we focused on the contribution of the shoulder muscles to glenohumeral joint stability in clinically relevant positions. Both computational and experimental models were used. A computational model of the glenohumeral joint quantified stability provided by active muscle forces in both mid-range and end-range glenohumeral joint positions. Compared with mid-range positions, the resultant joint force at end-range positions was more anteriorly directed, indicating that its contribution to glenohumeral joint stability was diminished. In end-range positions, simulated increases in rotator cuff muscle forces tended to improve stability whereas increases in deltoid or pectoralis major muscle forces tended to further decrease stability. To validate these results, a cadaveric model, simulating relevant shoulder muscles, was used to quantify glenohumeral joint stability. When infraspinatus muscle activity was decreased, compressive forces decreased. When pectoralis major muscle activity was increased, anteriorly directed forces increased. If anteriorly directed forces increase or compressive forces decrease, stability of the glenohumeral joint decreases. This cadaveric model was then used to evaluate the effect of placing the joint in the apprehension position of abduction, external rotation, and horizontal abduction. Consistent with the results of our computational model, apprehension positioning increased anteriorly directed forces. Knowledge gained from these models was then used to develop a cadaveric model of glenohumeral joint dislocation. Dislocation resulted from the mechanism of forcible apprehension positioning when the appropriate shoulder muscles were simulated and a passive pectoralis major muscle was included. Capsulolabral lesions resulted that were similar to those observed in vivo. Shoulder muscle forces are usually powerful stabilizers of the glenohumeral joint, especially in mid-range positions when the passive stabilizers are lax. However, muscle forces can contribute to instability as well. Certain muscle forces decrease glenohumeral joint stability in end-range positions. We found this to be the case with both active and passive pectoralis major forces. Improved understanding of the contribution of muscle forces not only toward stability but also toward instability will improve rehabilitation protocols for the shoulder and prove useful in the treatment of joint instability throughout the body.
Diagnosis and relation to general health of shoulder disorders presenting to primary care.	To prospectively evaluate the incidence, spectrum of disease and relation to general health of shoulder disorders in primary care.
Effects of shoulder arthroplasty and exercise in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	The aim of this study was to examine pain and shoulder function in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) before and after shoulder arthroplasty and postoperative exercise. Twenty-four patients (26 shoulders) were consecutively included in a multicentre study. Before surgery, at discharge from hospital and after 3 and 6 months, perceived shoulder function and shoulder pain were assessed by visual analogue scales, activities of daily living by the Modified Health Assessment Questionnaire (M-HAQ) and shoulder range of motion (ROM) by a goniometer. All patients showed considerable pain reduction at discharge from hospital (p<0.001). In those with intact rotator cuff and biceps tendon (n=13) improvements were found after 6 months in active and passive abduction and flexion ROMs (p<0.01) and in M-HAQ (p<0.001). Such improvements were not found in those with torn soft tissue (n=12). Preoperatively, abduction and flexion motor deficits (passive ROM >active ROM) were found for the total group (p=0.001). Less flexion motor deficit was found in the intact soft tissue than in the torn soft tissue group after 3 (p=0.002) and 6 months (p<0.001). No group difference was found with respect to abduction motor deficit. In conclusion, pain relief was obtained by all patients. Improvements in ROMs and activities of daily living were influenced by the state of the soft tissue.
High-energy extracorporeal shock-wave therapy for calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff: a randomised trial.	In a prospective randomised trial of calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff, we compared the efficacy of dual treatment sessions delivering 2500 extracorporeal shock waves at either high- or low-energy, via an electromagnetic generator under fluoroscopic guidance. Patients were eligible for the study if they had more than a three-month history of calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff, with calcification measuring 10 mm or more in maximum dimension. The primary outcome measure was the change in the Constant and Murley Score. A total of 80 patients were enrolled (40 in each group), and were re-evaluated at a mean of 110 (41 to 255) days after treatment when the increase in Constant and Murley score was significantly greater (t-test, p = 0.026) in the high-energy treatment group than in the low-energy group. The improvement from the baseline level was significant in the high-energy group, with a mean gain of 12.5 (-20.7 to 47.5) points (p < 0.0001). The improvement was not significant in the low-energy group. Total or subtotal resorption of the calcification occurred in six patients (15%) in the high-energy group and in two patients (5%) in the low-energy group. High-energy shock-wave therapy significantly improves symptoms in refractory calcifying tendinitis of the shoulder after three months of follow-up, but the calcific deposit remains unchanged in size in the majority of patients.
Analysis of the scapulo-humeral rhythm for periarthritis scapulohumeralis]	To clarify the scapulo-humeral rhythm in twenty-five patients with periarthritis scapulo-humeralis, the movements of the scapula and the humerus during arm elevation were measured and analysed using a fluoroscope and a computer, and the rhythm of five patient with rotator cuff tear was compared with that of seven normal subjects. The ratio of scapular movement to humeral one in the patients with severe shoulder contracture due to periarthritis scapulohumeralis was greater than that of patients with mild contracture and that of normal subjects. In the patients with rotator cuff tear, wider range of scapular rotation was observed in the early phase of the motion. During the early phase of arm elevation, the humeral head moved to the upper direction by means of gliding in the patients with severely contracted shoulder and rotator cuff tear, and in the patients with mildly contracted shoulder the humeral head moved to the upper direction by means of ball rolling. In the normal subjects no such upward movement of the humeral head was observed. We believe that the restriction of the glenohumeral joint motion and dysfunction of the rotator cuff, which were caused by periarthritis scapulohumeralis, may break down the scapulohumeral rhythm.
Arthroscopic posteroinferior capsular plication and rotator interval closure after Bankart repair in patients with traumatic anterior glenohumeral instability—A minimum follow-up of 5 years.	Shoulder joint laxity over anteroinferior and posteroinferior labral–capsular structure inpatients with traumatic anterior glenohumeral instability was reported in the previous literature. The purpose of this study was to report our experience in arthroscopic treatment of traumatic anterior–inferior shoulder instability by Bankart lesion stabilisation with rotator interval closure and posteroinferior capsular plication.
A history of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty.	Management of the cuff-deficient arthritic shoulder has long been challenging. Early unconstrained shoulder arthroplasty systems were associated with high complication and implant failure rates. The evolution toward the modern reverse shoulder arthroplasty includes many variables of constrained shoulder arthroplasty designs.
Rotator cuff strength in recurrent anterior shoulder instability.	Although rotator-cuff muscle contraction plays an important role in stabilizing the glenohumeral joint, little is known about the role of these muscles in the pathophysiology of recurrent anterior instability. We intended to analyze the association between isokinetic internal rotator and external rotator muscle strength and glenohumeral joint instability in patients with recurrent anterior instability that was not previously treated surgically.
Resolving the contributions of fatigue-induced migration and scapular reorientation on the subacromial space: an orthopaedic geometric simulation analysis.	Subacromial impingement occurs when tissues interposed between the humeral head and the acromion become compressed between the bones. Two fatigue-related mechanisms are suggested to contribute to this impingement: superior humeral head migration and scapular reorientation, specifically downward rotation, anterior tilt and protraction. Although both mechanisms have received attention, controversy exists regarding their relative contributions to reducing subacromial space width. This simulation study presents a three-dimensional orthopedic model for assessing the spatial relationship between the humerus and the scapula. Through incorporating empirically generated fatigue data as inputs, changes in the subacromial space associated with each mechanism acting independently and in combination were quantified. These changes were examined for three scenarios (average, impingement sparing, impingement causing) and at three humeral elevation angles (0°, 45° and 90°) in a total of 36 unique simulations. Humeral head migration generally decreased the subacromial space and scapular reorientation generally increased the space across scenarios. This strongly implies that superior humeral migration is the dominant fatigue-related mechanism associated with increasing the likelihood of impingement. The results suggest that future research should target efforts to reduce migration in industry, primarily through avoidance or modification of situations known to induce rotator cuff fatigue, such as overhead work.
The stabilizing role of the rotator cuff at the shoulder--responses to external perturbations.	The rotator cuff has been hypothesized as a dynamic stabilizer at the shoulder joint yet evidence supporting this role remains inconclusive. We aimed to investigate the activity levels and recruitment patterns between the rotator cuff and superficial shoulder muscles in response to external perturbations to provide insight into the stabilizing role of the rotator cuff.
Clinical anatomy of the shoulder after treatment for breast cancer.	Normal painfree movement of the upper limb requires movement at the glenohumeral joint and movement of the scapula on the thorax. Co-ordinated movement of these joints is known as the scapulohumeral rhythm and is required during elevation of the arm. Coordinated movement is further achieved by timing of the many muscles acting across the joints. A pilot study from our laboratory has shown significant alterations to this scapulohumeral rhythm and its muscle control following treatment for breast cancer. The aims of this study were to: (1) correlate altered muscle activity from a larger sample with observed movement deviations; (2) compare movement and muscle deviations in survivors with a healthy population and (3) explore the impact of a mastectomy versus a wide local excision (WLE) on the observed deviations. Cross-sectional study. 155 women treated for unilateral carcinoma of the breast and 21 age-matched healthy women were included in the study. All patients filled out the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI). Three-dimensional kinematic data and EMG muscle activity were recorded during scaption on the affected and unaffected side. Patients demonstrated a different movement dysfunction depending on whether the left or the right shoulder was affected. Left affected shoulders demonstrated the greatest degree of internal rotation of all shoulders studied. Compared to healthy shoulders patients following a mastectomy demonstrated increased activity in both the left and right affected shoulders in all the measured muscles. In patients having a WLE, such increases were not observed in serratus anterior and pectoralis major activity on the right affected shoulder, where a decrease was noted. Muscle dysfunction was also observed in the unaffected side of patients. Having received chemotherapy contributed significantly to the difference seen between the affected and unaffected shoulders in patients. Differences in scapular tilt between affected and unaffected shoulders in patients were significantly associated with pain and disability, and changes in serratus anterior activity. Patterns of movement deviation resemble those seen in known shoulder conditions. Anatomical and biomechanical evidence supports the need for integrated rehabilitation and surveillance systems for the shoulder in oncology units.
Gap formation in a transosseous rotator cuff repair as a function of bone quality.	The transosseous approach has been well known for a long time as a valid repair approach. Over time, various criticisms have been raised over this technique principally classifiable in two main categories: technical difficulty and related reproducibility in an arthroscopic environment, and repair stability (in the suture-bone contact area). About cyclic performance, several authors have conceived test setups with the aim of simulating a real environment in dynamic load conditions. The aim of this study was to monitor gap formation in a cyclic test setup.
Osteochondroma of the clavicle and pain syndrome of the shoulder. Apropos of a case. Review of the literature]	Osteochondroma, a frequent benign tumor of the bone, is in most cases asymptomatic. Localization in the clavicle is extremely rare. The authors report an isolated case occurring in the coraco-clavicular area responsible for a painful shoulder syndrome evoking rotator cuff tendinitis.
