Excretion of serotype G1 rotavirus strains by asymptomatic staff: a possible source of nosocomial infection.	This study supports the hypothesis that feces from asymptomatic adults may provide a vehicle for the transmission of rotavirus, in addition to aerosols, hands, and fomites. The observed preferential carriage of serotype G1 strains in the adult gastrointestinal tract may explain G1 predominance and persistence in epidemiologic studies worldwide.
Hemagglutination by a human rotavirus isolate as evidence for transmission of animal rotaviruses to humans.	Human rotavirus strain Ro1845, which was isolated in 1985 from an Israeli child with diarrhea, has a hemagglutinin that is capable of agglutinating erythrocytes from guinea pigs, sheep, chickens, and humans (group O). Hemagglutination was inhibited after incubation with hyperimmune sera or in the presence of glycophorin, the erythrocyte receptor for animal rotaviruses. These results suggest that Ro1845 is an animal rotavirus that infected a human child.
Presence of viral proteins in drinkable water--sufficient condition to consider water a vector of viral transmission?	In order to determine the role of water as a possible vector for transmission of the most prevalent enteric viruses affecting infantile populations, 226 water samples were collected from Facatativa's (Colombian municipality located 30km away from Bogotá) water works in the years 2000, 2002, and 2005. The samples were clarified and virus was concentrated by filtering and ultrafiltering techniques. The presence of viral protein (VP) was assessed by enzyme immunoassay method (EIA) and viral RNA presence was detected by reverse trascriptase and polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Using these techniques, one sample positive for Astrovirus (HAstV) was found in a sample collected from the river that supplies the aqueduct, two samples positive for Norovirus (NV) from fresh treated potable water and 13 samples positive for Rotavirus (RV), some in water from the plant during treatment and others from treated fresh water. RT-PCR inhibitors were also found in water samples obtained from the plant and in the fresh treated water. No inhibitors were found in the river water. VP, but no nucleic acid, was detected in the water samples at different stages of treatment, thus suggesting that the virus might have been complete and infectious at some stage prior to water purification.
Evidence for the porcine origin of equine rotavirus strain H-1.	Equine group A rotavirus (RVA) strain H-1 (RVA/Horse-tc/GBR/H-1/1975/G5P9[7]) was found to have VP4, VP6-7, NSP1 and NSP4 genes of porcine origin. In order to obtain conclusive information on the exact origin and evolution of this unusual equine strain, the remaining six genes (VP1-3, NSP2-3 and NSP5 genes) of strain H-1 were analyzed in the present study. By whole genomic analysis, strain H-1 exhibited a porcine RVA-like genotype constellation (G5-P[7]-I5-R1-C1-M1-A8-N1-T1-E1-H1), different from those of typical equine RVA strains. The VP2-3 and NSP2-3 genes of strain H-1 were found to originate from porcine RVAs. On the other hand, it was difficult to pinpoint the exact origin of the VP1 and NSP5 genes of strain H-1, though phylogenetically, these genes appeared to be possibly derived from porcine or Wa-like human strains. Taken together, at least nine (VP2-4, VP6-7 and NSP1-4 genes) of the 11 gene segments of strain H-1 were found to be of porcine origin, revealing a porcine RVA-like genetic backbone. Therefore, strain H-1 is likely a porcine RVA strain that was transmitted to horses.
