Prognosis of rotavirus infection in children]	The aim of the research was to develop the method for predicting the course of rotavirus gastroenteritis in children.Under the supervision were 3607 children aged from 9 days to 5 years with the diagnosis of "Acute gastroenteritis" and "Acute gastroenterocolitis". The diagnosis of rotavirus infection was on the basis of a set of clinical, epidemiological data and the results of para-clinical and bacteriological studies and data of detection of rotavirus antigen strain. Genotyping of rotavirus group A was performed by PCR 269 faecal samples. For rotavirus infection is characterized by the following clinical symptoms: intestinal disorders, symptoms of intoxication, signs of dehydration. Clinical manifestation of rotavirus infection is closely correlated with indicators of leukogram, erythrocyte sedimentation rate and the degree of metabolic acidosis. The presence of concomitant bacterial infection burden for rotavirus, but the presence of conditionally pathogenic flora practically did not influence on the clinical manifestation of the disease. The longest duration of diarrhea was observed in patients with rotavirus gastroenteritis was caused by a strain with genotype PCR they often occurred in children older than 2 years (t=3,4; p<0.01)). Special scheme has been developed for predicting the course of rotavirus gastroenteritis, including the availability of mix infection, to determine the severity of the pathological process a specially designed scale. 
Etiological study of viral gastroenteritis in swine]	Studied were the etiology and spread of nonbacterial gastroenteritis in pigs over a period of five years. Ascertained were cases of diarrhea caused by the virus of transmissive gastroenteritis, epizootic diarrhea, and rotaviruses. The transmissive gastroenteritis virus was found in 14.1 per cent of the investigated material, mostly in the winter months (67.8 per cent), which was 65.6 per cent of the positive cases. The number of cases and that of the farms involved abruptly rose in the last two years of the investigated period when as many as 73.4 per cent of the positive findings were recorded. Thirty to 37.7 per cent of the studied farms proved to be infected. Enzootic diarrhea was recorded on seven out of the 12 studied farms, whereas 30 to 50 per cent of the sampled material was positive. The serologic study of reconvalescent blood sera of pigs from three infected farms revealed that 90 up to 100 per cent of them contained antibodies. In a great part of the sera (from 15 to 68.9 per cent) there were transmissive gastroenteritis antibodies as well. In 6.8 per cent of the Investigated samples and on 30 per cent of the farms there were also findings of rotaviruses. Cases of rotavirus gastroenteritis were recorded the year round with a rising trend in the cold months. Antibodies to these viruses were established on a large scale--from 58.13 to 100 per cent. There were also mixed infections--corona- and rotaviruses or viruses and bacteria.
Rotaviruses preferentially bind O-linked sialylglycoconjugates and sialomucins.	Rotaviruses are the most common cause of severe gastroenteritis in infants and children worldwide. Early events of virus binding and entry are the critical determinants of cellular permissiveness to rotavirus replication. The only known ligands for rotaviruses are sialic acids. We now report that simian rotaviruses bind preferentially to a subset of sialylated glycoconjugates, i.e. glycoproteins containing O-linked sialic acid moieties. Rotaviruses are able to distinguish between sialylated trisaccharide ligands presented as neoglycolipids. Higher avidity binding by rotaviruses is explained by multivalent binding to clustered sialic acid moieties. Our in vitro data are extended to explain the protective effect of mucins in the murine model of rotavirus disease and the specific binding by rotavirus to a high molecular weight sialomucin in the infant mouse intestine. Rotavirus binding to a sialomucin may be analogous to selectin-mediated mechanisms of cellular adhesion, and may be advantageous to the virus in the dynamic environment of the intestine.
Development of a heterologous model in germfree suckling rats for studies of rotavirus diarrhea.	Germfree suckling rats were infected with an SA11 rotavirus strain. Infected pups developed diarrhea associated with histopathological changes. The virus was detected in feces and in the small intestine. Cellular vacuolation was observed in the villi of the jejunum. These results provide a new model for further investigations of group A rotavirus infection.
Attachment and growth of human rotaviruses RV-3 and S12/85 in Caco-2 cells depend on VP4.	Studies with human neonatal rotaviruses RV-3 and S12/85 and their reassortants showed that VP4 is a determinant of rotavirus attachment to and growth in Caco-2 cells. The binding of these viruses to MA104 and Caco-2 cells correlated with their growth ability. Virus sensitivity to trypsin and the VP4 fusion region may be implicated in these processes.
