Postoperative ossifications of the shoulder. Incidence and clinical impact.	Periarticular ossifications of the shoulder after surgery have been described since the beginning of the century. Risk factors and the clinical impact of heterotopic bone formation have been discussed controversially. After open surgery on the shoulder, 131 patients (rotator cuff repair n = 106, acromioplasty n = 25) were included in a retrospective study if pre- and postoperative X-rays were available. The age of the 90 men and 41 women averaged 51 years (range 29-67 years). The minimum follow-up was 2 years. Also, 108 patients were interviewed by questionnaire to estimate the subjective outcome of the procedure (5 patients were reported dead). A clinical examination was carried out on 86 patients using the Constant score for evaluation of the objective outcome. Heterotopic ossifications were found in 35 cases (26.7%), 28 of them after rotator cuff reconstruction and 7 after acromioplasty. A good to excellent result was reported by 89% (n = 65) of the patients without and by 80% (n = 28) of the patients with ossifications. The Constant score averaged 69 points and 74 points (n = 60), respectively. A significant difference between the two collectives could not be calculated. As significant risk factors for the formation of heterotopic bone, the existence of osteoarthritis and the duration and complexity of the procedure could be cited. The appearance of periarticular ossifications after surgery of the shoulder seems to be of minor clinical impact. Severe cases with major functional deficits should and can be prevented by a fast and atraumatic operation technique.
Comparative studies of MRI and operative findings in rotator cuff tear.	A prospective study was performed to determine the accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) compared with operative findings in the evaluation of patients associated with rotator cuff tears. Fifty-four of 60 shoulders (58 patients) examined by MRI were confirmed as full-thickness tears and 6 as partial-thickness tears at the time of surgery. The oblique coronal, oblique sagittal, and axial planes of T2-weighted images with the 0.5 tesla MRI system were obtained preoperatively and compared with operative findings. MRI correctly identified 46 of 54 full-thickness rotator cuff tears and 5 of 6 partial-thickness tears. A comparison of MRI and operative findings in full-thickness cuff tears showed a sensitivity of 85%, a specificity of 83%, and a positive prospective value (PPV) of 99%. A comparison of partial-thickness tears showed a sensitivity of 83%, a specificity of 85%, and PPV of 39%. Linear regression analysis showed an excellent correlation between the MRI assessment and measurement at the time of surgery (r = 0.90, P < 0.01). MRI was useful in evaluating large and medium-sized rotator cuff tears, but less useful in distinguishing small full-thickness tears from partial-thickness tears.
Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: Analysis of results by tear size and by repair technique-margin convergence versus direct tendon-to-bone repair.	The purpose of this article is 2-fold: To report the long-term functional results of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (average, 3.5 years in this study), and to analyze results by tear size and repair technique (margin convergence v direct tendon-to-bone repair).
Pedicle island flaps of latissimus dorsi. Applications in surgical repair of ruptures of the rotator cuff.	There are considerable problems in repair of major ruptures of the rotator cuff tendons particularly those of the supra and infraspinatus mm. The Gerber technique only transfers the tendinous insertion of the latissimus dorsi onto the greater tuberosity in massive cuff ruptures. We have extended this approach. In 12 shoulders, we studied the feasibility of a latissimus dorsi transfer harvested to fit and bearing muscle and tendon detached at its two extremities and transposed as a neurovascular island. The muscular part is transferred to the infra or supraspinous fossae and the tendon to the greater tuberosity with the aim of reactivating the infra and supraspinatus muscles. The lateral bundle of the latissimus dorsi is always transferable on its neurovascular pedicle into the infraspinous fossa, even into the supraspinous fossa, or into both if transfer is used as a bilobed flap. This anatomical work allowed a parallel study of the different possibilities of transposing the neurovascular pedicle, which might limit the technique, and also to determine the most appropriate surgical approach.
Os acromiale associated with tear of the rotator cuff treated operatively. Review of 33 patients.	Os acromiale is a rare anatomical abnormality and treatment is controversial. Our retrospective study analyses the outcome of excision, acromioplasty and bony fusion of the os acromiale when it is associated with a tear of the rotator cuff. After a mean follow-up of 41 months, 33 patients were radiologically and clinically assessed using the Constant score. The surgical procedure was to repair the rotator cuff together with excision of the os acromiale in six patients, acromioplasty in five, and fusion in 22. Of the 22 attempted fusions seven failed radiologically. The Constant scores were 82%, 81%, 81% and 84% for patients who had excision, acromioplasty, successful fusion and unsuccessful fusion respectively. There were no statistically significant differences. We conclude that a small mobile os acromiale can be resected, a large stable os acromiale treated by acromioplasty and a large unstable os acromiale by fusion to the acromion. Even without radiological fusion the clinical outcome can be good.
Mechanical factors in the initiation and propagation of tears of the rotator cuff. Quantification of strains of the supraspinatus tendon in vitro.	Differential strain has been proposed to be a causative factor in failure of the supraspinatus tendon. We quantified the strains on the joint and bursal sides of the supraspinatus tendon with increasing load (20 to 200 N) and during 120 degrees of glenohumeral abduction with a constant tensile load (20 to 100 N). We tested ten fresh frozen cadaver shoulders on a purpose-built rig. Differential variable reluctance extensometers allowed calculation of the strain. Static loading to 100 N or more increased strains on the joint side significantly more than on the bursal side. During glenohumeral abduction an increasing and significant difference in strain was measured between the joint and bursal sides of the supraspinatus tendon, which reached a maximum of 10.6% at abduction of 120 degrees. The joint side strain of 7.5% reached values which were previously reported to cause failure. Differential strain causes shearing between the layers of the supraspinatus tendon, which may contribute to the propagation of intratendinous defects that are initiated by high joint side strains.
Ultrasonographic appearance of os acromiale.	Ossa acromiale are rare anatomical conditions and have been evaluated with plain radiographs, CT- and MRI-scans, but not with ultrasound. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the appearance and the characteristics of os acromiale with ultrasound.
Tendinitis of the long head of biceps tendon associated with lesions of the "biceps reflection pulley"]	In some patients with persistent pain around the Long Head of Biceps Tendon (LHB), lesions of the "biceps reflection pulley", associated with biceps tendinitis, can be found. The aim of this study is to describe the anatomy of the reflection pulley and the arthroscopic appearance of the pulley lesion. Therapeutic options will be discussed.
Real-time compound sonography of the rotator-cuff: evaluation of artefact reduction and image definition.	The aim of this study was to compare real time compound sonography with conventional sonography in the evaluation of rotator cuff tears.
Capsulo-labro-ligamentous lesions of the shoulder: evaluation with MR arthrography.	The aim of the study was to analyse the accuracy of MR arthrography in the evaluation of capsulo-labro-ligamentous lesions of the shoulder in patients with glenohumeral joint instability.
Accuracy of routine MRI in lesions of the supraspinatus tendon--comparison with surgical findings]	To determine the correlation of the extent of lesions of the supraspinatus tendon in MRI's of the shoulder with surgical or arthroscopic findings using the classification of Snyders and Batemann, respectively.
Prediction of primary reparability of massive tears of the rotator cuff on preoperative magnetic resonance imaging.	We studied magnetic resonance images of rotator cuff tears to determine whether it was possible to establish preoperatively the feasibility or infeasibility of primary repair. The study comprised 27 shoulders in 26 patients who underwent magnetic resonance imaging before surgery because of complete tears of the rotator cuff and who were treated with primary repair or by the patch graft technique because primary repair was not feasible. The length and width of each tear, the thickness of the supraspinatus muscle at the superior margin of the glenoid, and the presence or absence of a high signal intensity in the infraspinatus muscle were statistically analyzed. Primary repair was often not feasible when both the length and width of the tear exceeded 40 mm on a preoperative magnetic resonance image, when the supraspinatus muscle was thin at the superior margin of the glenoid, and when a high signal intensity was observed in the infraspinatus muscle.
The course of the suprascapular nerve in the supraspinatus fossa and its vulnerability in muscle advancement.	Twenty-four cadaveric shoulders were evaluated to assess damage to the suprascapular nerve in relation to Debeyre's advancement of the supraspinatus muscle for rotator cuff repair. In all cases the neurovascular pedicle was tethered at the suprascapular notch and at the periosteum of the supraspinatus fossa. The medial motor branches were directed to the trigonum spinae or the superior angle of the scapula (group 1). The dorsal branches crossed the muscle at the bottom of the supraspinatus fossa (group 2) or directly entered the muscle (group 3). The lateral group remained in the supraspinatus fossa (group 4) or entered the infraspinatus fossa (group 5). The mean distance between the scapular notch and the point of entry of the medial branches into the muscle was 2.9 cm. Branches of group 1 and the main nerve are at risk of injury when detaching muscle from bone. This risk is minimized by subperiosteal detachment. Branches of group 1 are tensioned when advancing the muscle 1 cm laterally.
Arthroscopic repair of large and massive rotator cuff tears.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the outcome of arthroscopically repaired large and massive rotator cuff tears at 1- to 5-year follow-up.
Intra-articular migration of a sutureless arthroscopic rotator cuff fixation device.	Rotator cuff tears are a common orthopaedic condition. Recent new advances in arthroscopic equipment and devices has allowed many rotator cuff tears to be repaired arthroscopically. Some of these newer devices allow sutureless repair of rotator cuff tears. We report a case of failure in intra-articular migration of such a fixation device. Displacement of the device was noted 4 months after surgery on magnetic resonance arthography. The device was removed arthroscopically with no long-term sequelae. Nevertheless, it is important to recognize that these devices have the potential for intra-articular migration. Due diligence is required in placing these devices. As with all arthroscopic procedures, there appears to be a learning curve associated with the use of sutureless rotator cuff repair fixation devices.
Biceps tendon disorders: ultrasound, MR imaging and MR arthrography]	Ultrasound and MR imaging are competitive imaging modalities for the diagnosis of pathologic conditions of the biceps tendon. MR imaging has substantial advantages over ultrasound because biceps tendon lesions are most commonly located in the proximal part where lesions are hidden under the acromion for ultrasound assessment. The value of MR arthrography is substantiated by the capability to assess associated diagnoses which are otherwise difficult to assess. Associated diagnoses include full- and partial thickness tears of supraspinatus and subscapularis tendons, pulley lesions, and adhesive capsulitis (frozen shoulder). Moreover, MR arthrography is the method of choice for the assessment of superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions.
Supraspinatus tendon organizational and mechanical properties in a chronic rotator cuff tear animal model.	Rotator cuff tears of the shoulder are a common cause of pain and disability. The successful repair of rotator cuff tendon tears depends on the time from onset of injury to the time of surgical repair. However, the effect of time from injury to repair remains poorly understood. A rat model was used to investigate the supraspinatus tendon organizational and mechanical property changes that occur with time post-injury to understand the natural injury response in the absence of repair. It was hypothesized that increased time post-injury would result in increased detrimental changes to tendon organizational and mechanical properties. Tendons were detached at the insertion on the humerus without repair and the quantitative organizational and mechanical properties were analyzed at 1, 2, 4, 8, and 16 weeks post-detachment. Tendon detachment resulted in a dramatic decrease in mechanical properties initially followed by a progressive increase with time. The quantitative collagen fiber orientation results provided corroborating support to the mechanical property data. Based on similarities in histology and mechanical properties to rotator cuff tears in humans, the animal model presented here is promising for future investigations of the tendon's natural injury response in the absence of repair.
Shoulder stiffness: diagnosis.	Pain and stiffness of the shoulder is a common complaint, particularly in the 40-80 years age group. There are several causes of painful, stiff shoulders, but the most common cause in the fifth decade of life is idiopathic capsulitis ('frozen shoulder').
Shoulder stiffness: management.	There are several causes of painful, stiff shoulders--each with a different method of treatment.
Postoperative imaging of the shoulder]	Correct interpretation of imaging findings in the postoperative shoulder is impaired by surgical distortion of normal anatomy and possible artifacts. Advanced postoperative imaging of the shoulder in addition to the selection of the best suited modality necessitates familiarity with the surgical procedure that has been performed and its consecutive morphological changes. This article reviews the most common arthroscopic and open techniques used for treatment of shoulder instability, lesions of the superior labral-bicipital complex, primary impingement, and rotator cuff tears, their typical postoperative imaging findings, as well as the diagnostic performance of cross sectional imaging techniques in the detection of recurrent lesions and complications.
The interval slide in continuity: a method of mobilizing the anterosuperior rotator cuff without disrupting the tear margins.	Massive, contracted, immobile rotator cuff tears involving the subscapularis, supraspinatus, and infraspinatus tendons present difficult surgical challenges to the arthroscopic surgeon. We describe the interval slide in continuity, a release and resection of a portion of the coracohumeral ligament and rotator interval. This technique improves the mobility of the subscapularis and supraspinatus tendons but also maintains an important lateral bridge of tissue spanning the interval between the subscapularis anteriorly and the supraspinatus tendon superiorly. After repair of the subscapularis tendon, this lateral rotator interval tissue can greatly facilitate repair of the posterosuperior rotator cuff.
Detection and quantification of rotator cuff tears. Comparison of ultrasonographic, magnetic resonance imaging, and arthroscopic findings in seventy-one consecutive cases.	Although many investigators have evaluated the accuracy of ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging for the detection of full and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears, few have directly compared the two tests. The purpose of our study was to compare the accuracy of the two tests for detection and measurement of the size of rotator cuff tears, with arthroscopic findings used as the standard.
Associations between body-mass index and surgery for rotator cuff tendinitis.	Rotator cuff tendinopathy is a common entity. We hypothesized that obesity, because of biomechanical and systemic risk factors, increases the risks of rotator cuff tendinitis, tears, and related surgical procedures.
Impingement syndrome of the shoulder]	The impingement syndrome is a clinical entity characterized by shoulder pain due to primary or secondary mechanical irritation of the rotator cuff. The primary factors for the development of impingement are a curved or hook-shaped anterior acromion as well as subacromial osteophytes, which may lead to tearing of the supraspinatus tendon. Secondary impingement is mainly caused by calcific tendinopathy, glenohumeral instability, os acromiale and degenerative changes of the acromioclavicular joint. Conventional radiographs are initially obtained, mainly for evaluation of the bony structures of the shoulder. If available, sonography can be used for detection of lesions and tears of the rotator cuff. Finally, MR-imaging provides detailed information about the relationship of the acromion and the acromioclavicular joint to the rotator cuff itself. In many cases however, no morphologic cause for impingement syndrome can be found. While patients are initially treated conservatively, chronic disease usually requires surgical intervention.
Conservative treatment and rehabilitation of shoulder problems]	The shoulder joint has an important influence on arm- and hand function. Therefore, activities of daily living, working and leisure time can be negatively influenced by diseases of the shoulder joint. Problems of the shoulder joint can be induced by muscular dysbalance and poor body posture. There is a strong relationship between shoulder function and body posture. Conservative treatment and rehabilitation of the shoulder joint aims at improving the local dysfunction of the shoulder joint as well as at improving function and social participation. Antiinflammatory and pain medication, exercise, occupational, electro-, ultrasound and shock wave therapy, massage, thermotherapy and pulsed electromagnetic fields are used as conservative treatments. Exercise therapy aims at improving muscular performance, joint mobility and body posture. Occupational therapy aims at improving functional movements for daily living and work. Electrotherapy is primarily used to relieve pain. Shock wave and ultrasound therapy proved to be an effective treatment for patients with calcific tendinitis. The subacromial impingement syndrome can be effectively treated by conservative therapy.
Shoulder instability]	Shoulder instability is a common clinical feature leading to recurrent pain and limited range of motion within the glenohumeral joint. Instability can be due a single traumatic event, general joint laxity or repeated episodes of microtrauma. Differentiation between traumatic and atraumatic forms of shoulder instability requires careful history and a systemic clinical examination. Shoulder laxity has to be differentiated from true instability followed by the clinical assessment of direction and degree of glenohumeral translation. Conventional radiography and CT are used for the diagnosis of bony lesions. MR imaging and MR arthrography help in the detection of soft tissue affection, especially of the glenoid labrum and the capsuloligamentous complex. The most common lesion involving the labrum is the anterior labral tear, associated with capsuloperiostal stripping (Bankart lesion). A number of variants of the Bankart lesion have been described, such as ALPSA, SLAP or HAGL lesions. The purpose of this review is to highlight different forms of shoulder instability and its associated radiological findings with a focus on MR imaging.
New developments for the surgical treatment of shoulder problems]	Tremendous advancement has been made in the surgical treatment of the shoulder within the last years. Arthroscopic techniques for treatment of rotator cuff lesions, instability problems and biceps tendon lesions are today established because of significant improvement of instruments, suture materials and anchor techniques. The 4th generation of shoulder prosthesis systems guarantee today anatomical and biomechanical advantages with significant functional improvement for the patient.
Spontaneous healing process of a supraspinatus tendon tear in rabbits.	The rotator cuff has a characteristic structure, in that one surface faces articular cartilage and another faces bursa. This structure may produce differences in the healing process between the rotator cuff and other tendons. We investigated the spontaneous healing process of a surgically created supraspinatus tendon tear in rabbits.
Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with and without arthroscopic subacromial decompression: a prospective, randomized study of one-year outcomes.	We performed a prospective, randomized study to determine whether arthroscopic subacromial decompression changes the outcome of rotator cuff repair. We performed a power analysis to ensure statistical validity. Patients scheduled for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair were randomized to cuff repair with arthroscopic subacromial decompression (group 1) or without it (group 2). All other aspects of the surgical and postsurgical treatment were identical. We included patients with full-thickness tears limited to the supraspinatus tendon and a type 2 acromion. We excluded patients with prior surgery, those with larger tears involving two or more tendons, those with a type 1 or 3 acromion, those with workers' compensation claims, and those who had concomitant procedures (labral repair, acromioclavicular joint resection) There were 47 patients in group 1 and 46 in group 2. Minimum follow-up was 1 year (mean, 15.6 +/- 3.3 months). We recorded the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) shoulder scores preoperatively and postoperatively. There was no statistical difference in postoperative ASES scores between group 1 (91.5 +/- 10.3) and group 2 (89.2 +/- 15.1) (P =.392). The change in ASES score over time did not differ between the two groups (61.1 vs 60.2, P =.363). In conclusion, within the parameters described above, arthroscopic subacromial decompression does not appear to change the functional outcome after arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff.
Therapeutic results of acromioclavicular joint dislocation complicated by rotator cuff tear.	To evaluate the operative findings and postoperative results of one-stage repair on patients with acromioclavicular joint dislocation complicated by rotator cuff tear.
An arthroscopic stitch for massive rotator cuff tears: the Mac stitch.	Arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears has become popular with the advancement in technology and arthroscopic technique. As we attempt to arthroscopically repair larger rotator cuff tears, we are relying more on tissue fixation. The tendon-suture interface has been recognized as the weak link in rotator cuff repair. In this article, we propose the use of the Mac stitch--a simple modification of suture placement, a combination of a horizontal and vertical loop at the site of repair--to increase the strength of tissue fixation. The Mac stitch is a simple arthroscopic stitch that can be used for small and massive rotator cuff repairs.
Complete, superior labral radial tear and type II slap tear associated with greater tuberosity fracture.	This case report presents a unique variant of superior labral-bicep complex injury. The combination of a complete anterior-superior radial tear of the labrum and bicep anchor instability has not been described in previous classifications of these injuries. The injury was traumatic in nature and was associated with a displaced fracture of the greater tuberosity. The labral pathology was treated by an anatomic repair technique as described. Rationale for the repair performed, as well as implications of the injury treated by debridement alone, are discussed. Clinicians should be aware of different patterns of superior labral-bicep complex injuries and the implications on function and stability of the glenohumeral joint.
Rupture of the biceps tendon after arthroscopic thermal capsulorrhaphy.	The use of thermal energy in the shoulder to tighten capsular tissues through collagen denaturation is well established. Although reported complication rates are low, the natural history of thermal manipulation to both target and collateral tissue is poorly defined. We report two cases of biceps tendon rupture after arthroscopic capsular shrinkage. Both patients were young, athletic men with normal long head biceps tendons at the time of surgery. Each patient experienced a complete tear of the long head with distal muscle retraction, resulting in a "Popeye" deformity, at 3 months postoperatively. One patient elected further surgery with biceps tenodesis. Both patients have returned to their athletic activities with minimal functional deficits.
All-arthroscopic removal of a suture anchor using an arthroscopic bur sheath.	Suture anchors are commonly used in shoulder repairs, especially arthroscopically performed repairs. Anchors can become prominent and require removal. We describe a technique of arthroscopic anchor removal using a bur sheath.
How to use cuff suture instruments: the concept of "concave in and concave out".	Arthroscopic reconstructive surgery of the shoulder is extremely demanding. The advent of suture anchors and knot-tying instruments has greatly facilitated its development. Knowledge of the anatomy and surgical principles alone is not enough. Familiarity with specific instruments is also important. We describe our experience with the Elite Cuff Stitch Suture Relay (Smith & Nephew, London, U.K.). We describe a new concept on how to use this suture passer or similar instrument. We advocate this new concept of "concave in and concave out."
Arthroscopic rotator interval repair: the three-step all-inside technique.	Many clinical reports have emphasized the importance of rotator interval lesions in patients with glenohumeral instability, and many investigators have described open repair techniques, either as a supplement to other capsule reconstruction or as an isolated procedure. In this article, an original arthroscopic technique for rotator interval closure is described. This technique allows the operator to accurately manage the degree of tightening of the rotator interval, the knot tying, and the suture cutting, under direct intra-articular arthroscopic vision.
Arthroscopic humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligaments (HAGL) repair.	Humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligaments (HAGL lesion) is one of the pathologic lesions that occurs secondary to anterior glenohumeral instability. Although HAGL lesions occur less commonly than Bankart lesions in cases of anterior instability, it is necessary to understand this pathology and to make the necessary repair. An all-arthroscopic technique using suture anchors can be used to repair HAGL lesions, but it is a difficult and demanding technique. To facilitate this type of repair, the surgeon must be: (1) comfortable with both the 30 degrees and 70 degrees arthroscopes, (2) able to establish and use the 5-o'clock portal, (3) able to abduct and externally rotate the arm, and (4) able to ensure secure fixation of the glenohumeral ligaments to bone through adequate knot and loop security.
Neuro-orthopedic management of shoulder deformity and dysfunction in brain-injured patients: a novel approach.	Shoulder problems are common in patients with traumatic brain injury. Very little has been written about the evaluation and neuro-orthopedic management of these problems. This is largely because there have not been surgical treatments available other than release of contracted, nonfunctional shoulders. Shoulder problems can be classified and evaluated using several different strategies: bony versus soft tissue restrictions; static versus dynamic deformities; traumatic injuries versus impairments secondary to weakness and spasticity; or problems of active function versus problems of passive function. Regardless of the classification system employed a systematic approach to evaluation and treatment is essential. Shoulder impairments can be corrected leading to significant improvement in functional outcomes. In this paper we report on the novel evaluation and surgical management options developed in our program for the most common shoulder problems encountered in patients with traumatic brain injury.
2D SPLASH: a new method to determine the fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff muscles.	The objective of this paper is to quantify the fatty degeneration (infiltration) of rotator cuff muscles with a new spectroscopic FLASH (SPLASH) sequence. Before planned surgery (reconstruction or muscle transfer), 20 patients (13 men, 7 women; 35-75 years) with different stages of rotator cuff disease underwent an MR examination in a 1.5-T unit. The protocol consists of imaging sequences and a newly implemented SPLASH, which allows an exact quantification of the fat/water ratio with a high spatial resolution in an arbitrarily shaped region of interest (ROI). The percentages of fat in the rotator cuff muscles were determined. To determine statistically significant differences between the different stages of rotator cuff tear, a Kruskal-Wallis H test was used. Fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus muscle was correlated with cross-sectional area (CSA) measures (Bravais-Pearson). We found significant differences between different stages of rotator cuff disease, the fatty infiltration and the volume loss (determined by the occupation ratio) of the supraspinatus muscle. With the increasing extent of rotator cuff disease, fatty infiltration increases significantly, as does the volume loss of the supraspinatus muscle. Comparing fatty infiltration and the occupation ratio individually, there was only a moderate inverse correlation between fatty infiltration and the occupation ratio, with considerable variation of data. Fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle occurred when the infraspinatus tendon was involved to a lesser extent. The SPLASH sequence allows exact quantification of fatty infiltration in an arbitrarily shaped ROI. The extent of atrophy and fatty infiltration correlates with the size of the tear. Atrophy and fatty infiltration correlate only moderately and should be evaluated separately.
Shoulder pain in sports.	Shoulder pain in athletic individuals is common, particularly in those sports that are upper limb dominant. It is important to make an accurate diagnosis so that appropriate treatment can be directed at the cause.
Combined pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for massive rotator cuff deficiency.	This report is a retrospective review of 11 consecutive patients treated with a combined transfer of the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major tendons for massive rotator cuff deficiency. Each patient's chief complaint was diminished shoulder function and motion with little or no accompanying pain. The primary operative objective was to increase active shoulder motion. All 11 patients were followed up for at least 2 years (range, 24 to 42 months). The mean active elevation improved from 42 degrees preoperatively to 86 degrees postoperatively. The mean active external rotation improved from 0 degrees to 13 degrees. On the basis of the Medical Research Council scale, the mean abduction strength improved from 2.3 to 3.1 and the mean external rotation strength improved from 2.1 to 2.7. Overall, 4 patients made no improvement, 2 improved slightly, and 5 improved significantly. We conclude that a combined transfer of the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major is a reasonable and safe procedure that may restore active elevation and external rotation in some patients' shoulders with a massive rotator cuff deficiency that have not responded favorably to traditional nonoperative and operative techniques. However, it is difficult to conclude, based on our experience, for which patients this surgery can be predictably successful.
Continuous subacromial bupivacaine infusion for postoperative analgesia after open acromioplasty and rotator cuff repair: preliminary results.	Shoulder surgery is often associated with severe postoperative pain. Previous results in which single or continuous subacromial infiltration of local anesthetics was used as a method of postoperative pain relief have been contradictory. This study was initiated to evaluate the postoperative analgesic effect of a subacromial continuous 0.25% bupivacaine infusion at a rate of 6 mL/h after elective open shoulder surgery. We hypothesized that this procedure would improve postoperative analgesia while reducing morphine requirements. By use of a prospective, double-blind, randomized study design, 50 consecutive patients undergoing acromioplasty and rotator cuff repair surgery received a multiorifice catheter placed in the subacromial space. Twenty patients received 0.25% bupivacaine (group 1), and twenty-two patients received saline solution (group 2). The primary endpoints in the two groups were total morphine consumption administered by patient-controlled analgesia and the patient's subjective pain level evaluated by a visual analog scale during the first 48 postoperative hours. No major technical or pharmacologic side effects were noticed, and the indwelling pain catheter was well tolerated by all patients. There was no statistically significant difference (P < .05) either in total cumulative morphine consumption microg/48 h (73.2 +/- 43.1 vs 60.9 +/- 35.9) or in subjective pain perception 10-point visual analog scale (3.2 +/- 1.4 vs 3.1 +/- 1.5) between the two study groups. The continuous subacromial infiltration of 0.25% bupivacaine at a rate of 6 mL/h is concluded to be ineffective in providing pain relief supplementary to patient-controlled analgesia after open rotator cuff repair and acromioplasty surgery.
Passive tension and gap formation of rotator cuff repairs.	The objectives of this study were to quantify the relationship between passive tension of rotator cuff repairs and arm position and to examine the effect of this tension on repair gap formation. Five patients undergoing open surgical rotator cuff repair of the supraspinatus tendon were recruited. Tendon tension was recorded as the supraspinatus was advanced into a bone trough and secured. The relationship between arm position and repair tension was then measured. Standardized rotator cuff tears were created in 3 cadaveric shoulders and repaired by use of the intraoperative technique. The difference in tension measured between 0 degrees and 30 degrees abduction was statically applied for 24 hours and the gap formation measured. Repair tension increased with advancement of the supraspinatus tendon into the bone trough. Abduction reduced the repair load. The mean reduction in load by 30 degrees abduction was 34 N. Twenty-four hours of 34-N loading caused gap formation of 9 mm in cadaveric rotator cuff repairs. Passive tension in surgically repaired rotator cuffs may contribute to repair failure and can be modified by arm positioning.
Acute shoulder injuries.	The shoulder is the most mobile joint in the human body. The cost of such versatility is an increased risk of injury. It is important that family physicians understand the anatomy of the shoulder, mechanisms of injury, typical physical and radiologic findings, approach to management of injuries, and indications for referral. Clavicle fractures are among the most common acute shoulder injuries, and more than 80 percent of them can be managed conservatively. Humeral head fractures are less common and usually occur in elderly persons; 85 percent of them can be managed nonoperatively. Common acute soft tissue injuries include shoulder dislocations, rotator cuff tears, and acromioclavicular sprains. Acromioclavicular injuries are graded from types I to VI. Types I and II are treated conservatively, types IV to VI are treated surgically, and there is debate about the best approach for type III. Eighty percent of shoulder dislocations are anterior. Diagnosis of this injury is straightforward. The injury usually can be reduced by employing a number of nonsurgical techniques. Traumatic or acute rotator cuff tears can be managed conservatively or surgically, depending on the patient and the degree of injury.
Determinants of patient satisfaction with outcome after rotator cuff surgery.	The outcome after rotator cuff surgery has been reported frequently with use of condition-specific measures, but patient satisfaction has not been well studied. The purpose of this study was to identify the determinants of patient satisfaction with the outcome after rotator cuff surgery.
Biomechanical comparison of bioabsorbable sutureless screw anchor versus suture anchor fixation for rotator cuff repair.	Anchors that directly fix the rotator cuff to bone without using sutures may simplify the challenges associated with arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. This study compared a bioabsorbable screw fixation device to a standard suture anchor fixation method.
Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in patients older than 60 years.	The purpose of this study was to analyze results by age, tear size, and type of suture repair (margin convergence by side-to-side suture, direct tendon-to-bone repair with suture anchor, or side-to-side plus suture anchor) of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in patients older than 60 years (average, 67.7 years).
Salvage rotator cuff repair using a biotenodesis screw.	Rotator cuff tear fixation can be difficult when humeral head bone stock is poor as a result of osteopenia or osteoporosis. This technical note describes biotenodesis screw use to achieve effective fixation after 2 previous attempts at implanting suture anchors failed.
Ultrasonography as a diagnostic modality in acromioclavicular joint pathologies.	Ultrasound is useful in detecting acromioclavicular pathologies in cases of trauma, inflammations and degenerative changes.
Prevention of shoulder stiffness after rotator cuff repair.	Predisposing factors for shoulder stiffness after rotator cuff repair have yet to be determined. The potential for recovery of range of motion and amelioration of pain in patients with this complication also remains unclear. Accordingly, data collected prospectively for 209 patients with a primary rotator cuff repair were retrospectively reviewed. Two groups, Group A (early motion recovery) and Group B (shoulder stiffness), were selected according to passive shoulder range of motion outcomes 6 weeks postoperatively. Both groups were compared for 10 descriptive and clinical characteristics, and for passive range of motion, muscle force, and functional outcomes obtained 0, 6, 12, 24, and 76 weeks postoperatively. Of the potential prognostic factors examined, restriction of range of motion for the preoperative hand behind the back best predicted shoulder stiffness at 6 weeks postoperatively. For patients with postoperative shoulder stiffness, pain had subsided by 24 weeks postoperatively, whereas range of motion steadily improved between 6 weeks and 76 weeks postoperatively. Results of the current study support a predictive role for restriction of range of motion for the preoperative hand behind the back, and affirms the potential for nearly complete recovery of range of motion and amelioration of pain in patients who have shoulder stiffness after rotator cuff repair.
Magnetic resonance appearance of bone marrow edema associated with hydroxyapatite deposition disease without cortical erosion.	The authors report the magnetic resonance (MR) appearance of bone marrow edema associated with hydroxyapatite deposition disease without cortical erosion. Hydroxyapatite deposition disease may have bone marrow edema on MR imaging without radiographic evidence of cortical erosion, mimicking the appearance of fracture, neoplasm, or infection. Awareness of this association can prevent unnecessary additional imaging evaluation or biopsy.
Management of early deep infection after rotator cuff repair surgery.	Deep soft-tissue infection occurs infrequently after rotator cuff repair surgery. We retrospectively reviewed the clinical presentation in 14 patients whose rotator cuff repair was complicated by an early deep infection (<6 weeks). The functional outcome after treatment in 12 of these patients was analyzed at a mean follow-up of 37.5 months (range, 11-122 months). The diagnosis of infection was most often made within 3 weeks from the date of surgery (mean, 18 days; range, 3-41 days). Common presenting symptoms included localized wound erythema and drainage. The blood leukocyte counts were usually normal, but the erythrocyte sedimentation rates and C-reactive protein levels were elevated. A mean of 2.6 surgical debridements were required to clean the wound effectively in each case. Eight of twelve patients were dissatisfied at final assessment. Most patients reported reasonably good relief of pain, but they had residual shoulder stiffness and weakness. Retention of suture anchors in the humeral head did not preclude successful eradication of the infection.
Heterotopic ossification after primary shoulder arthroplasty.	We have assessed the incidence of heterotopic ossification (HO) after primary shoulder joint replacement in 126 shoulders; 58 patients had hemiarthroplasty, and 68 had total shoulder joint replacement. HO developed to a minor extent in 15% of patients (19/126). There was no statistical difference between hemiarthroplasty or total shoulder replacement or between male and female patients. Patients with cuff tear arthropathy were the only group with an increased risk (36.4% [4/11]) of having HO develop. In patients with osteoarthritis, fractures, or rheumatoid arthritis, HO occurred in less than 14.5% (15/115). Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) did not appear to have any effect on HO as in hip replacement, as HO developed in 15.15% of patients having NSAIDs postoperatively and in 15.05% of patients without NSAIDs. Prophylaxis of HO with NSAIDs seems only to be indicated in patients with cuff tear arthropathy.
Effect of rotator cuff pathology on shoulder rhythm.	The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that shoulder rhythm is affected by rotator cuff pathology during arm elevation. We divided 42 subjects into 3 groups: those with full-thickness rotator cuff tears (RCTs) (n = 14), those with tendinopathy (n = 13), and control subjects (n = 15). Shoulder kinematics was recorded while subjects performed elevation in the sagittal and scapular planes. Euler angles were computed for scapular and humeral elevation. Data were divided into 3 equal phases. Lines were fit and the slope determined for each phase. Significant differences in slopes ( P < .05) were found between experimental groups for both motions. The RCT group had higher slopes in the initial and middle phases for sagittal elevation and in the middle phase for scapular abduction. The scapula was elevated more in the RCT group in the initial two thirds of movement. This motion may change the length of remaining muscles so that they operate on a more effective part of their length-tension curve.
Biomechanical effects of supraspinatus repair on the glenohumeral joint.	We repaired full-thickness rotator cuff tears in human cadaveric shoulder specimens. The purpose of this study was to determine whether a repaired supraspinatus will result in a change in joint forces, contact pressures and area, and position of the humerus relative to the glenoid compared with the pathologic and simulated complete-tear specimens. Force couples exist in the coronal plane between the deltoid and the inferior portion of the rotator cuff and in the transverse plane between the anterior cuff (subscapularis) and posterior cuff (infraspinatus and teres minor). This has served as a model for shoulder and rotator cuff research. Our model differs from previous studies in that the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi/teres major were included because they are important contributors to shoulder function. Muscle force simulation was performed through a clamp, cable, and pneumatic system for the tendons of the rotator cuff, pectoralis major, and teres major/latissimus dorsi. Each specimen was tested in its native state of a full-thickness supraspinatus tear in 10 degrees and 60 degrees of abduction with neutral humeral rotation. In each position there were 2 loading conditions: (1) all muscles loaded with 60 N and (2) deltoid loaded with 90 N and 60 N for all others (3:2 ratio between the deltoid and supraspinatus). Pathologic tear, repaired, and simulated complete-tear conditions were subjected to the same testing sequence. After repair, there was an increase in percent inferior force in the 10 degrees abduction, 60-N loaded condition ( P = .02). The increase in percent inferior force may represent greater concavity-compression and spacer effect, which are both important functions of the supraspinatus. Contact pressure decreased in both the pathologic and simulated complete-tear conditions at 10 degrees abduction with 90-N deltoid loading ( P = .01). A corresponding increase in area was observed at this position for the pathologic tear condition only ( P = .01). This could represent greater concavity-compression, indicating that strengthening may provide a biomechanical benefit.
Inflammatory and angiogenic mRNA levels are altered in a supraspinatus tendon overuse animal model.	Shoulder overuse injuries, especially those to the supraspinatus tendon of the rotator cuff, are common musculoskeletal disorders. Unfortunately, little is known about the disease etiology and pathogenesis. The objective of this study was to determine the levels of specific inflammatory and angiogenic markers in a rat supraspinatus tendon overuse injury model. We hypothesized that inflammation would not be present early in the overuse protocol. Conversely, we hypothesized that the overuse protocol would result in increased angiogenesis early. Increases in five-lipoxygenase activating protein, cyclooxygenase-2, vascular endothelial growth factor, and von Willebrand factor were evaluated by use of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction from 1 day through 16 weeks of treadmill running (overuse protocol). These results provide important information on the role of angiogenesis and inflammation in the disease process. Future studies will further evaluate the mechanisms of the disease process as well as potential targeted treatment modalities.
The relationship among strength and mobility measures and self-report outcome scores in persons after rotator cuff repair surgery: impairment measures are not enough.	In the past, measures of active range of motion and strength testing were deemed sufficient to "prove" the efficacy of treatment interventions. In the current outcomes milieu, however, the focus has shifted to patient-centered assessment (ie, patients' ability to perform activities that are personally relevant). We report results from a study with patients in the private practice of a shoulder surgeon. In this study we evaluated the relationship between impairment measures and scores from several shoulder outcome scales. In addition, we examined transcripts of interviews with shoulder patients regarding the impact of shoulder problems on their lives. One hundred eight persons participated in a randomized trial of home exercise instruction after arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears. Two impairment measures were used-strength estimates obtained by use of a Nicholas electronic dynamometer and range of motion in the standing position. Self- reported outcomes were measured by use of the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI) and the University of Pennsylvania (UPenn) Shoulder Scale. Pearson correlation coefficients were calculated to estimate the associations between scores on impairment measures and self-report measures. R 2 values were calculated to estimate the proportion of variance shared by impairment and self-report scores. We found that the linear relationship between impairment scores and patient-reported outcomes was quite low, explaining as little as 8% of the total variance. Qualitative analysis of patient interviews suggests that patients distinguish between their impairment and their status on personally relevant outcomes. Future research should evaluate the nature of patient judgments of shoulder health outcomes.
Periarticular soft tissue conditions causing pain in the shoulder.	Pain originating in periarticular soft tissues of the shoulder is a common clinical problem among the aged patients of both sexes, but it has become increasingly frequent in young individuals because of a health-oriented life style. In the past year, a considerable progress has been made in diagnosing these conditions, especially with the aid of magnetic resonance imaging. Our understanding of the pathogenesis of these conditions, however, has advanced very little, and we hope that more efforts will be devoted in the future to elucidate how the periarticular soft tissues of the shoulder react to diverse injuries they are exposed to.
Nuclear magnetic resonance tomography and sonography in diagnosis of lesions of the rotator cuff]	The diagnostic value of MRI and ultrasound in the examination of 37 patients with chronic shoulder pain is compared. All the results were controlled or by arthroscopy/arthrotomy or by arthrography. Ruptures and degenerative changes of the rotator cuff and degenerative lesions could be detected with a high sensibility. The ultrasound examination as a fast, reproducible diagnostic method has now become part of the routine diagnosis. The MRI produces exacter information about the extent of the lesions; but it will be reserved for special questions.
Isolated injury of the subscapular muscle tendon]	Avulsion of the subscapularis tendon is caused by a combined abduction and external rotation trauma of the upper limb. Weakness of internal rotation and a positive apprehension test are clinical signs of the injury. A fracture of the lesser tuberosity in the x-ray film or a disruption of the subscapularis tendon documented in dynamic sonography of the shoulder clarify the diagnosis. Operative treatment is indicated of prevent weakness of internal rotation as well as anterior instability. This recommendation is supported by four cases with full range of motion and good anterior stability after surgery.
Clinical diagnosis of tears of the rotator cuff.	We have studied the reported clinical assessment of the presence and extent of a rotator cuff tear in 42 patients presenting to a special shoulder clinic. This pre-operative diagnosis was compared with the findings at operation. The clinical tests had a sensitivity of 91% and a specificity of 75%. It is important to exploit clinical examination before resorting to costly and sometimes harmful special investigations.
Detection and measurement of rotator cuff tears with sonography: analysis of diagnostic errors.	The purpose of this study was to analyze the causes of errors in the detection and measurement of rotator cuff tears in our patient population.
Histological lesions of supraspinatus tendons in full thickness tears of the rotator cuff]	Iterative tears after simple tendon bone suture of transfixiant ruptures of the rotator cuff are frequent. The frequency of iterative ruptures had seemed to be correlated to the importance of the preoperative fatty degenerations of the cuff muscles. But fatty degeneration cannot account for iterative ruptures occurring with no or little preoperative muscle fatty degeneration. The authors have tried to know if iterative ruptures could also be accounted for by the presence on repaired tendinous stumps of histological lesions which are known to lower their mechanical quality, and if such was the case, they have tried to know what could be the impact of these lesions on the repairing technique by suturing cuff ruptures.
The effect of suture materials and techniques on the outcome of repair of the rotator cuff: a prospective, randomised study.	In a prospective, randomised study on the repair of tears of the rotator cuff we compared the clinical results of two suture techniques for which different suture materials were used. We prospectively randomised 100 patients with tears of the rotator cuff into two groups. Group 1 had transosseous repair with No. 3 Ethibond using modified Mason-Allen sutures and group 2 had transosseous repair with 1.0 mm polydioxanone cord using modified Kessler sutures. After 24 to 30 months the patients were evaluated clinically using the Constant score and by ultrasonography. Of the 100 patients, 92 completed the study. No significant statistical difference was seen between the two groups: Constant score, 91% vs 92%; rate of further tear, 18% vs 22%; and revision, 4% vs 4%. In cases of further tear the outcome in group 2 did not differ from that for the intact repairs (91% vs 91%), but in group 1 it was significantly worse (94% vs 77%, p = 0.005). Overall, seven patients had complications which required revision surgery, in four for pain (two in each group) and in three for infection (two in group 1 and one in group 2).
Accuracy of CT arthrography in the assessment of tears of the rotator cuff.	CT arthrography and arthroscopy were used to assess tears of the rotator cuff in 259 shoulders. Tear size was determined in the frontal and sagittal planes according to the classification of the French Arthroscopy Society. CT arthrography had a sensitivity of 99% and a specificity of 100% for the diagnosis of tears of supraspinatus. For infraspinatus these figures were 97.44% and 99.52%, respectively and, for subscapularis, 64.71% and 98.17%. For lesions of the long head of the biceps, the sensitivity was 45.76% and the specificity was 99.57%. Our study showed an excellent correlation between CT arthrography and arthroscopy when assessing the extent of a rotator cuff tear. CT arthrography should, therefore, be an indispensable part of pre-operative assessment. It allows determination of whether a tear is reparable (retraction of the tendon and fatty degeneration of the corresponding muscle) and whether this is possible by arthroscopy (degree of tendon retraction and extension to subscapularis).
The results of arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff]	This study was designed to evaluate the functional results of arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff and to investigate the degree of fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles and recurrent ruptures by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Arthroscopic-assisted mini-open repair of rotator cuff tears]	We retrospectively evaluated the results of patients who underwent arthroscopic-assisted mini-open repair of rotator cuff tears.
Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus: does the tendon really heal?	Good functional results have been reported for arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears, but the rate of tendon-to-bone healing is still unknown. Our hypothesis was that arthroscopic repair of full-thickness supraspinatus tears achieves a rate of complete tendon healing equivalent to those reported in the literature with open or mini-open techniques.
Open rotator cuff repair without acromioplasty.	In most clinical reports on rotator cuff repair, acromioplasty was done as part of the procedure. In this prospective study, we evaluated the hypothesis that rotator cuff repair without acromioplasty would result in a substantial improvement in shoulder comfort and function.
Uncemented glenoid component in total shoulder arthroplasty. Survivorship and outcomes.	Glenoid component loosening continues to be a major factor affecting the long-term survivorship of total shoulder replacements. Radiolucent lines, cement fracture, migration, and loosening requiring revision are common problems with cemented glenoid components. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the results of total shoulder arthroplasty with an uncemented glenoid component and to identify predictors of glenoid component failure.
Accuracy of office-based ultrasonography of the shoulder for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears.	This prospective multi-institutional study was designed to define the accuracy of ultrasonography, when performed in an orthopaedic surgeon's office, for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears.
Corrective interventions subsequent to humeral head fractures]	The complications of old fractures of the proximal humeral head and fracture dislocations are nonunion, malunion, osteonecrosis, early traumatic arthritis, chronic dislocation and instability with subluxation. We reviewed a consecutive series of 34 shoulders that were treated between 1986 and 1990. We performed 7 hemiarthroplasties and 11 total shoulder arthroplasties (Neer type) in 17 patients (group I). Group II consisted of 12 osteotomies, 3 internal fixations for nonunion (AO technique), and 1 shoulder arthrodesis. The average follow-up was 27 months (group I) and 26 months (group II), respectively. The results were: good in 32%, fair in 50%, and poor in 18% in group I; excellent in 6%, good in 62%, and fair in 32% in group II. The results indicate that varus/valgus-osteotomies and derotation osteotomies should be considered as an alternative procedure prior to arthroplasties before traumatic arthritis has developed. Internal fixation for nonunion (AO technique) is a replacement for hemiarthroplasty.
Correlation between the four types of acromion and the existence of enthesophytes: a study on 423 dried scapulas and review of the literature.	The purpose of this study was to correlate the four types of acromial shape with the existence of enthesophytes, which together comprise two important parameters for subacromial impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tears. In addition, a review of the literature was carried out. Four hundred twenty-three dried scapulas were studied at the Department of Anatomy in the University of Cologne, Germany. Four types of acromion were found: the three classical ones as described by Bigliani et al. ([1986] Orthop Trans 10:216) and a fourth one, where the middle third of the undersurface of acromion was convex (Gagey et al. [1993] Surg Radiol Anat 15:63-70). The correlation between the four types of acromion and the presence of enthesophytes at its anterior undersurface was also recorded. The distribution of acromial types was as follows: type I, flat, 51 (12.1%); type II, curved, 239 (56.5%); type III, hooked, 122 (28.8%); and type IV, convex, 11 (2.6%). Enthesophytes were found in 1 of type I (2%), in 19 of type II (7.9%), in 46 of type III (37.7%), and in 0 (0%) of type IV acromions. Overall, 66 (15.6%) out of 423 scapulas had enthesophytes. In all cases, they were localized at the site of the coracoacromial ligament insertion on the acromion. Enthesophytes were significantly (P < 0.05) more common in type III acromions and this combination is particularly associated with subacromial impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tears. In type I and in type IV acromions, the incidence of enthesophytes is very small and, according to other studies, with these two acromial types rotator cuff tears are also rare.
Inverse knot: a personal sliding knot for arthrosopic surgery.	The development of arthroscopic reconstructive procedures has resulted in the creation of dedicated knots, sliding or not, to be used without skin incision and passed through the cannulas. Most of the recent studies are dedicated to realize and develop slip knots because they are easier and faster to use. The authors report their experience in use of a personal slip knot we called Inverse knot, due to the peculiar characteristic that is closed by the "post" strand.
The relationship between the orientation of the glenoid and tears of the rotator cuff.	Our aim was to determine the most repeatable three-dimensional measurement of glenoid orientation and to compare it between shoulders with intact and torn rotator cuffs. Our null hypothesis was that glenoid orientation in the scapulae of shoulders with a full-thickness tear of the rotator cuff was the same as that in shoulders with an intact rotator cuff. We studied 24 shoulders in cadavers, 12 with an intact rotator cuff and 12 with a full-thickness tear. Two different observers used a three-dimensional digitising system to measure glenoid orientation in the scapular plane (ie glenoid inclination) using six different techniques. Glenoid version was also measured. The overall precision of the measurements revealed an error of less than 0.6 degrees. Intraobserver reliability (correlation coefficients of 0.990 and 0.984 for each observer) and interobserver reliability (correlation coefficient of 0.985) were highest for measurement of glenoid inclination based on the angle obtained from a line connecting the superior and inferior points of the glenoid and that connecting the most superior point of the glenoid and the most superior point on the body of the scapula. There were no differences in glenoid inclination (p = 0.34) or glenoid version (p = 0.12) in scapulae from shoulders with an intact rotator cuff and those with a full-thickness tear. Abnormal glenoid orientation was not present in shoulders with a torn rotator cuff.
The effect of arthroscopic suture passing instruments on rotator cuff damage and repair strength.	There are a variety of arthroscopic devices used to pass sutures through the rotator cuff for its repair. Because they vary in size and shape, it is possible that they could damage the cuff and affect the integrity of the repair. We chose four devices for assessment--SutureLasso (Arthrex, Naples, FL), straight BirdBeak (Arthrex, Naples, FL), Viper (Arthrex, Naples, FL), and a #7 tapered Mayo needle--and performed cuff reattachments in four paired shoulders using suture anchors. These repairs were cycled and tested to failure. The SutureLasso and Mayo needle repairs failed at approximately 285 N whereas the BirdBeak and Viper failed during cycling at 150 N. It appears that the devices, which made the bigger holes in the cuff, can compromise the integrity of the repair.
A biodegradable button to augment suture attachment in rotator cuff repair.	Recent experimental studies suggest that the use of suture anchors for rotator cuff tear (RCT) repair transfers the "weak link" to the suture-tendon interface where failure occurs as the sutures cut through the tendon. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of using a suture augmentation button on the fixation strength of rotator cuff tendon repair. A 1.5 cm by 2 cm defect was created in the supraspinatus tendon of seven cadaveric shoulder pairs and two suture anchors inserted in each humerus for suture attachment. For one of each pair, the defect was repaired with sutures placed in a horizontal mattress configuration. The other side was repaired with the sutures being passed through low profile, bioabsorbable buttons placed on the bursal tendon surface prior to knot tying. The supraspinatus tendon was cyclically loaded at a physiologic rate and load (33 mm/sec and 180 N, respectively). The number of loading cycles was recorded when the specimens developed 0.75 cm and 1.5 cm gaps at the repair site. The specimens were then tested to failure. Specimens in the unaugmented group developed 0.75 cm and 1.5 cm gaps at an average of 135 cycles and 362 cycles, respectively. The button augmented group developed these gaps at average of 420 cycles and 708 cycles, respectively. These differences were statistically significant (p < 0.05). The gaps progressively increased in all specimens, which eventually failed by suture cutting through tendon in all specimens. This study demonstrates that in vitro, suture augmentation with a low profile, bioabsorbable button provides significantly enhanced fixation when using suture anchors to repair torn rotator cuff tendon. This device may be a useful adjunct to current methods of rotator cuff repair.
Patient-controlled analgesia after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: subacromial catheter versus intravenous injection.	No study has compared pain control results between patient-controlled subacromial infusion and intravenous injection after arthroscopic shoulder surgery.
Humeral osteochondroma causing a subscapularis tear: a rare source of shoulder dysfunction.	The proximal humerus is a well-known site of predilection for the solitary osteochondroma-the most common benign bone tumor. Subscapularis tears were underreported in the pre-arthroscopic era. Literature about rotator cuff impairment caused by osteochondromas is almost non-existent. We will present the case of a young man, who had a complete non-traumatic subscapularis tear, where the tendon had been peeled off the lesser tuberosity by an osteochondroma. Diagnostic features such as MRI and arthroscopy are emphasized. The patient was successfully treated by open resection of the tumor and reattachment of the tendon with suture anchors.
Biocompatibility of a polymer patch for rotator cuff repair.	Both mechanical and biological factors influence the high re-tear rate after rotator cuff repair. Mechanical factors have largely been addressed by the introduction of better implants and modification of suture configuration, but further improvements are needed to address the often poor tissue quality of the degenerated rotator cuff tendons. Current biological solutions provide only short-term reinforcement and have been associated with pseudo-infectious reactions. This pre-clinical animal study investigates the biological response to a novel polycarbonate polyurethane patch used for tissue augmentation in a rat rotator cuff repair model. Bilateral defects were created in the supraspinatus tendons of 12 Sprague Dawley rats. One side was repaired with a patch as a tissue augmentation device. The contralateral side acted as internal control without patch augmentation. After 6 weeks the tissues were harvested and underwent histologic and histomorphometric analyses. Histological evaluation demonstrated no inflammatory reaction; histomorphometry revealed tissue ingrowth of 79.9%. In conclusion, the polycarbonate polyurethane patch for tissue extension or augmentation in rotator cuff repair has demonstrated no inflammatory response and excellent tissue integration in a rat rotator cuff repair model.
Glenoid bone grafting with a reverse design prosthesis.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the outcome of patients who underwent glenoid bone grafting and implantation of a reverse design prosthesis in 1 or 2 stages for the treatment of glenoid bone loss and rotator cuff insufficiency. Indications for the reverse prosthesis in this series included cuff tear arthropathy and revision arthroplasty. Nine patients were reviewed clinically and radiographically with a minimum 2-year follow-up (range, 24-41 months). Despite a low postoperative functional score (mean Constant score, 53 points [range, 22-79 points]), most patients were satisfied with their results primarily because of pain relief. (The mean pain score increased from 3 points preoperatively to 12.5 points postoperatively.) Radiographic evaluation did not demonstrate component loosening or evidence of graft failure. Six patients had radiographic evidence of an inferior scapular notch, which may be of concern in the future. Early results of this procedure are encouraging, but further clinical and radiologic assessment is necessary.
Biomechanical comparison of component position and hardware failure in the reverse shoulder prosthesis.	There has been renewed interest in reverse shoulder arthroplasty for the treatment of glenohumeral arthritis with concomitant rotator cuff deficiency. Failure of the prosthesis at the glenoid attachment site remains a concern. The purpose of this study was to examine glenoid component stability with regard to the angle of implantation. This investigation entailed a biomechanical analysis to evaluate forces and micromotion in glenoid components attached to 12 polyurethane blocks at -15 degrees, 0 degrees, and +15 degrees of superior and inferior tilt. The 15 degrees inferior tilt had the most uniform compressive forces and the least amount of tensile forces and micromotion when compared with the 0 degrees and 15 degrees superiorly tilted baseplate. Our results suggest that implantation with an inferior tilt will reduce the incidence of mechanical failure of the glenoid component in a reverse shoulder prosthesis.
Expression of interleukin-1beta, cyclooxygenase-2, and prostaglandin E2 in a rotator cuff tear in rabbits.	We investigated the specific factors related to shoulder pain due to a rotator cuff tear using a model in rabbits. A rotator cuff tear was surgically created, and the expression of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) was analyzed. In the supernatant of the tissue culture of the torn tendon, IL-1beta production was detected. The amount of IL-1beta was highest 1 day after injury, and then decreased gradually to 21 days. PGE2, the mediator of pain and the product of COX-2, was also detected in the supernatant of the tissue culture. The production of PGE2 significantly increased to 7 days after injury, and then decreased to 21 days. RT-PCR analysis confirmed the mRNA expression of IL-1beta and COX-2 in the torn tendon. Immunohistochemical study demonstrated that cells in the tendon stump were immunopositive for IL-1beta and COX-2. Furthermore, in the affected joint, articular chondrocytes in the remote area from the tear expressed COX-2 strongly. When the rotator cuff is torn, IL-1beta is produced in the torn tendon, and stimulates the expression of COX-2 in not only the torn tendon but also in articular chondrocytes. The COX-2 then produces PGE2, which would mediate shoulder pain.
In vitro study comparing two collageneous membranes in view of their clinical application for rotator cuff tendon regeneration.	Tenocytes were isolated from the rotator cuff tendons of healthy (HT) and glucocorticoid (GC)-treated rats (GCT) and were cultured on polystyrene wells (TCP) as control, and on 2 de-cellularized collagen matrices: porcine small intestinal submucosa (SIS), and human dermal matrix (Graftjacket, GJ). At 3 and 7 days cell proliferation and synthesis were evaluated. Proliferation of HT tenocytes increased between experimental times for both tested membranes, but already at 3 days, HT tenocytes cultured on GJ showed the highest WST-1 value. The collagen-I (CICP) synthesis on GJ membrane did not change between experimental times and was significantly higher than TCP and SIS at 7 days. Proteoglycans (PG), and fibronectin (FBN) synthesis increased when HT were cultured on GJ, between experimental times, and both PG and FBN synthesis on GJ membrane were higher than TCP and SIS at 7 days. GC determined decreases in cell proliferation, CICP and PG syntheses at 3 days of culture on TCP when compared to HT tenocytes while a decrease in WST-1 was maintained at 7 days. CICP, PG and FBN (only at 3 days) syntheses were significantly higher in GCT tenocytes cultured on GJ. The negative effects on GC on GCT tenocytes cultured on membrane were particularly evident on SIS for CICP (-18%) and FBN (-67%) synthesis. The obtained results support the conclusion that GJ is more suitable than SIS as a scaffold for in situ tissue engineering and for the in vitro bioengineering of tendons to heal massive tears of the rotator cuff tendon.
Sonography of the rotator cuff in painful shoulders performed without knowledge of clinical information: results from 58 sonographic examinations with surgical correlation.	To assess the value of sonography as an isolated diagnostic test for the detection and quantification of rotator cuff tears.
Defining the relationship between rotator cuff injury and proximal humerus fractures.	The purpose of our study was to correlate radiographic characteristics with rotator cuff tendon injury on magnetic resonance imaging after fractures of the proximal humerus. We prospectively obtained magnetic resonance imaging on 30 patients with proximal humerus fractures after classifying each fracture radiographically using Neer and AO systems and determining the displacement of the greater tuberosity. Twelve patients (40.0%) had either complete ruptures or avulsions of at least one of the rotator cuff muscles. No abnormality was identified in the rotator cuff musculature in nine patients (29%). Severity of injury to the rotator cuff tendons increased substantially with respect to increasing AO and Neer classes and 5 mm or greater displacement of the greater tuberosity fragment. Additional study is needed to determine the exact role of rotator cuff tendon injury in the ultimate function attained by patients with proximal humerus fractures.
Infraspinatus delamination does not affect supraspinatus tear repair.	Supraspinatus full-thickness tears with associated infraspinatus delamination are a frequent lesion, although the results of repair have not been reported. We retrospectively identified 35 patients treated for this cuff lesion among 378 open repaired full-thickness cuff tears. The aim of the study was to assess the subjective, objective, and anatomic outcomes of a subset of patients with supraspinatus tears involving delamination of the whole infraspinatus tendon. Thirty of the 35 patients were reviewed with magnetic resonance imaging at a minimum followup of 2 years (mean, 3.5 years; range, 2-6.5 years). The mean nonweighted Constant-Murley score at followup was 80/100 points, with an average gain of 17 points. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed all supraspinatus tendons but two were continuous. We observed no tear of the infraspinatus tendon, although a persistent delamination was present in 11 cases. One half of the patients had minor weakness in external rotation. One third of the infraspinatus muscles had minor fatty infiltration. Conservation of the infraspinatus tendon after closing the delamination did not seem to compromise the outcome of the supraspinatus repair. Avoiding resection of the infraspinatus delamination and treatment with simple curettage and closure yields satisfactory midterm functional and anatomic results.
Rat supraspinatus tendon expresses cartilage markers with overuse.	The goals of this study were to investigate the response of the rat supraspinatus tendon to overuse at the molecular level using transcriptional profiling, and to identify potential markers of tendinopathy. Adult rats were subjected to an overuse protocol that consists of downhill running (10% grade) at 17 m/min for 1 h/day, 5 days/week, for a total of either 1, 2, or 4 weeks. Another group of rats served as nonrunning time 0 controls. Transcriptional profiling was performed on the supraspinatus and patellar tendons using an Affymetrix rat genome array. A gene was considered to be differentially expressed if the p value from an ANOVA test was less than 0.01 and the difference between runners and controls was at least twofold at any time point. The supraspinatus tendon had increased expression of well-known cartilage genes such as col2a1, aggrecan, and sox9. These genes were not regulated in the patellar tendon, an internal comparator. Few genes associated with inflammation, or angiogenesis, were differentially expressed, and no significant change in the regulation of matrix metalloproteinases was detected. The results of this study suggest that by expressing more cartilage genes, the tendon is converting toward a fibrocartilage phenotype as a result of the repetitive loading and repeated compression of the tendon as it passes through the acromial arch.
Fatty infiltration and atrophy of the rotator cuff do not improve after rotator cuff repair and correlate with poor functional outcome.	The role of degenerative changes in rotator cuff musculature with respect to the functional outcomes of rotator cuff repair have only recently been recognized and are still not well understood. In addition, the reversibility of these changes with repair of the tendons is questionable.
Shoulder arthroscopy. Partial thickness tears of the rotator cuff]	Partial tears are frequent in rotator cuff pathology. Articular-side lesions, bursal-side lesion and interstitial lesion inside the thickness of the tendon are described. Etiopathogeny is not clearly known. It seems a multifactory association with intrinsic tendinous factors (vascularity, normal ageing of the tendon), extrinsic mechanical factors (impingement syndrome) and trauma. Clinically, the complaint is a painful shoulder with full range of motion. The rotator cuff examination does not shown weakness but pain. The onset is traumatic or degenerative. It could be the consequence of overuse specially in case of overhead sport. Diagnosis is confirmed by arthro-CT or/and (arthro) MRI. It is useful for the treatment to determine the size of the rupture regarding the thickness of the tendon. Natural history shows that partial tears do not healed. Treatment of the partial tear of the cuff is still debatable particularly for intertstitial lesion (acromioplasty, debridment, repair). Isolated acromioplasty permit to obtain pain relief but do not prevent evolution to full-thickness tear when the lesion concern more than 50% of the thickness of the tendon. In this case, arthroscopic tendon repair gives good and reliable results.
Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff]	Shoulder arthroscopy was only at first a surgical technique for subacromial decompression and has been progressively extended to the cuff repairs. This surgery remains nevertheless difficult and requires to be described exactly. A multicenter study of the French Arthroscopic Society allowed to analyse and to underline the quality of the clinical and anatomical results.
The relationship of glenoid and humeral version with supraspinatus tendon tears.	The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship of glenohumeral anatomic measurements on MR imaging with supraspinatus tendon tears. The study was approved by the institutional review board and informed consent was obtained from each subject. Forty-two patients (mean age 55.5 years; age range 40-73 years) with supraspinatus tendon tears and 50 asymptomatic shoulders of 32 controls (mean age 43 years; age range 17-69 years) without rotator cuff tears were included. The acromio-glenoid and supraspinatus-glenoid angles were measured on coronal images, the glenoid and humeral head version as well as the bicipital-humeral distance on axial images. Significant differences were found between the patients and controls for both glenoid version and bicipital-humeral distance, which are considered to influence the distribution of forces placed on the cuff (p < 0.05). The patients had a decreased glenoid version by an average of 2.3 degrees (-7.1 +/- 7.8 degrees vs. -4.8 +/- 5.6 degrees), and a decreased bicipital-humeral distance by an average of 2.7 mm (12.1 +/- 3.7 mm vs. 14.8 +/- 4.1 mm). No significant differences were found between these groups for humeral head version and the acromio-glenoid and supraspinatus-glenoid angles, which might contribute to extrinsic impingement by narrowing the supraspinatus tendon outlet. Differences in glenoid and humeral version may be responsible for RC tears by changing the orientation of the rotator cuff and thus increasing shearing stress.
Deltoid muscle and tendon tears in patients with chronic rotator cuff tears.	To describe the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) appearances of tears of the deltoid muscle and tendon in patients with rotator cuff tears and without a prior history of shoulder surgery.
Relationship of acromial architecture and diseases of the rotator cuff]	Variations in the architecture of the coraco-acromial arch can lead to a clinically symptomatic rotator cuff lesion. Differences in the shape and slope of the acromion, anterior acromial spurs and inferior protruding acromio-clavicular osteophytes decrease the volume of the subacromial space, leading to impingement. Recent anatomic, radiographic, biomechanic and stereophotogrammetric studies have confirmed these architectural variations and their effect on the contents of the subacromial space. Abnormal contact between the acromion and these soft tissues can result in pathological lesions. Surgical procedures should be aimed at increasing the space beneath the coraco-acromial arch to reduce wear on the rotator cuff.
Reconstruction of massive rotator cuff rupture using a deltoid muscle flap]	In extensive rotator cuff tears with rupture of the supra- and infraspinatus muscles, we have obtained good and very good results persisting for 3 years or longer only in 40% of cases treated by resection and debridement, and in 25% of our cases the head of the humerus was found to be no longer centrally located in the joint socket on X-ray examination 10 years after treatment. It was therefore proposed that an active muscle flap taken from the anterior part of the deltoid muscle (part III according to Fick) should be used to span the trophic defect in the rotator cuff, being sutured into healthy tissue following freshening up. This seems logical, since the transferred muscle flap remains innervated and vascularized and also works synergistically with the rest of the rotator cuff. The flap interposed in this way between the greater tubercle of the humerus and the acromion functions in the same way as a double-bellied muscle and prevents displacement of the head of the humerus. In this way an active rotator cuff is produced, which also takes over the function of stabilizing the humeral head. After follow-up of at least 1 year (average 19 months), the result is aesthetically satisfactory in all 50 shoulders treated in this way; 47 are free of pain or painful only some of the time; in 32 active elevation of over 120 degrees is possible; 21 have symmetrical force ratios in elevation and 15 for outward rotation in 90 degrees abduction. All reconstructed shoulders were characterized by fatigability in elevation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Contribution of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears to acquired subcoracoid impingement.	To assess the relationship between the severity of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears and the development of subcoracoid impingement.
Technical pearls on how to maximize healing of the rotator cuff.	Rotator cuff tears are common in today's aging population. Repair of the torn rotator cuff tendon can be performed by a variety of methods including open, mini-open, and arthroscopic techniques. Many surgical and nonsurgical factors affect whether a tendon will successfully heal to the tuberosity after repair. A high rate of failure of healing of the tendon to the tuberosity occurs even in procedures performed by experienced surgeons. Patients who have retears after rotator cuff repair still have improvement in pain and function; however, outcomes are not as favorable compared with those of patients who have intact cuffs after surgery. Patient age, size and chronicity of the tear, and muscle degeneration and atrophy are major factors that affect successful healing of the rotator cuff. Surgical factors include proper surgical technique, tear pattern recognition, adequate subacromial decompression, cuff mobilization, preparation of the tuberosity, suture and knot tying technique, anchor placement, and surgeon experience. A proper postoperative rehabilitation regimen is also important to protect the repair during the first 12 weeks of tendon healing. Progress continues in developing grafts and growth factors to stimulate and enhance the patient's intrinsic healing potential and to reinforce the surgical repair. The future of rotator cuff repair may also involve gene therapy and supplementation with growth factors to improve the healing rates of surgically repaired rotator cuff tendons.
Irreparable rotator cuff tears: what to do and when to do it; the surgeon's dilemma.	Irreparable rotator cuff tears have been defined as those tears that because of their size and retraction cannot be repaired primarily. Patients with an irreparable tear present with a variety of symptoms and physical findings, and their management depends on the clinical situation and the specific location of the tear. Most of these tears occur in the older, less active patient and many of these patients are best treated without surgery. For those in whom surgery is indicated, the best procedure should be tailored to the tear.
Impact of fatty infiltration of the teres minor muscle on the outcome of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty.	Reports have demonstrated that reverse shoulder arthroplasty restores overhead elevation but fails to restore active external rotation. The teres minor muscle-tendon unit contributes to active external rotation, and its deficiency may impair the clinical outcome. It was therefore the purpose of this study to evaluate the influence of fatty infiltration of the teres minor muscle on the clinical outcome after reverse total shoulder replacement.
Reverse Delta-III total shoulder replacement combined with latissimus dorsi transfer. A preliminary report.	Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty allows the restoration of active overhead elevation in patients with a massive rotator cuff tear and pseudoparesis of elevation. However, it does not restore active external rotation, the lack of which can also constitute a substantial functional handicap and compromise the outcome of this arthroplasty. Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer reliably restores control of active external rotation in rotator-cuff-deficient shoulders. In this preliminary study, we assessed the results of the combination of a latissimus dorsi transfer to the greater tuberosity and a reverse total shoulder arthroplasty in the presence of lost active external rotation.
Repair integrity and functional outcome after arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair. A prospective outcome study.	The retear rate following rotator cuff repair is variable. Recent biomechanical studies have demonstrated that double-row tendon-to-bone fixation excels in initial fixation strength and footprint coverage compared with the single-row or transosseous fixation methods. This study was designed to report the repair integrity and clinical outcome following arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair.
Clinical outcome and tendon integrity of arthroscopic versus mini-open supraspinatus tendon repair: a magnetic resonance imaging-controlled matched-pair analysis.	Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair produces equally good clinical results compared with open or mini-open repair. However, there are concerns about whether the same repair integrity can be achieved. The purpose of our study was to compare clinical and structural results of arthroscopic and mini-open rotator cuff repair.
Pullout strength of suture anchors in comparison with transosseous sutures for rotator cuff repair.	Suture anchors are increasingly gaining importance in rotator cuff surgery. This means they will be gradually replacing transosseous sutures. The purpose of this study was to compare the stability of transosseous sutures with different suture anchors with regard to their pullout strength depending on bone density. By means of bone densitometry (CT scans), two groups of human humeral head specimens were determined: a healthy and a osteopenic bone group. Following anchor systems were being tested: SPIRALOK 5.0 mm (resorbable, DePuy Mitek), Super Revo 5 mm (titanium, Linvatec), UltraSorb (resorbable, Linvatec) and the double U-sutures with Orthocord USP 2 (partly resorbable, DePuy Mitek) and Ethibond Excel 2 (non-resorbable, Ethicon). The suture anchors/double U-sutures were inserted in the greater tuberosity 12 times. An electromechanical testing machine was used for cyclic loading with power increasing in stages. We recorded the ultimate failure loads, the system displacements and the modes of failure. The suture anchors tended to bring about higher ultimate failure loads than the transosseous double U-sutures. This difference was significant in the comparison of the Ethibond suture and the SPIRALOK 5.0 mm-both in healthy and osteopenic bone. Both the suture materials and the SPIRALOK 5.0 mm showed a significant difference in pullout strength on either healthy or osteopenic bone; the titanium anchor SuperRevo 5 mm and the tilting anchor UltraSorb did not show any significant difference in healthy or osteopenic bone. There was no significant difference concerning system displacement (healthy and osteopenic bone) between the five anchor systems tested. The pullout strength of transosseous sutures is neither on healthy nor on osteopenic bone higher than that of suture anchors. Therefore, even osteopenic bone does not constitute a valid reason for the surgeon to perform open surgery by means of transosseous sutures. The choice of sutures in osteopenic bone is of little consequence anyway since it is mostly the bone itself which is the limiting factor.
Arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tear with a modified Mason-Allen stitch: mid-term clinical and ultrasound outcomes.	One of the most discussed point about arthroscopic full-thickness rotator cuff (RTC) repair is the strength of tendon-stitch interface. In the period between November 2003 and September 2004, in a series of 29 patients with primary isolated supraspinatus tear measuring > 2 cm a reconstruction using one titanium anchor and a modified Mason-Allen (MMA) stitch was done. These patients were prospectively collected in this study and then retrospectively evaluated. There were 21 men and 8 women with a mean age of 59.3 years. Patients were examined pre-operatively by a single sport medicine doctor, very experienced on shoulder pathology problem. Constant score, University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) scale and Simple Shoulder Test (SST) were administered. After a minimum follow-up of 24 months patients were revaluated clinically by the same independent examiner. At the same time patients underwent an ultrasound shoulder examination to evaluate rotator cuff integrity. Clinically there was a significant improvement of Constant score, SST score and UCLA scale at followup. Twenty-five patients (86.2%) were satisfied, whether the other four patients (13.8%) stated that they would decline procedure. Recurrent rotator cuff tear was found in 11 patients (38%), who were all older than 60. All the patients but one with a pre-operative MRI grade III tendon tissue fatty infiltration, had a cuff re-tear. Arthroscopic supraspinatus tendon repair with one single anchor and MMA stitch is a reliable technique leading to a re-tear of 38% that is comparable with results reported in literature.
Clinical evaluation of the shoulder shrug sign.	The "shrug sign" (inability to lift the arm to 90 degrees abduction without elevating the whole scapula or shoulder girdle) has been associated with a diagnosis of rotator cuff disease. Based on our clinical experience, we hypothesized the shrug sign is not a specific diagnostic sign for this condition, but rather is associated with various shoulder conditions and shoulder weakness and loss of range of motion. We retrospectively reviewed 982 consecutive patients who had been examined preoperatively for the shrug sign. A positive shrug sign was present in 51.3% of the patients, and the average distance lost from the horizontal was 20.5 degrees +/- 2.2 degrees (standard error of mean). Increasing age was associated with the presence of a shrug sign. The highest incidence was in patients with adhesive capsulitis (94.7%). The shrug sign was not sensitive for tendinosis, partial rotator cuff tears, or full-thickness or massive rotator cuff tears. The shrug sign was associated with weakness in abduction, night pain, and loss of range of motion, especially passive abduction. Although the shrug sign is useful as a general sign of shoulder abnormality, particularly when associated with stiffness, it was not specific or sensitive for rotator cuff problems.
Functional outcome after proximal humeral fractures treated with hemiarthroplasty.	To evaluate functional outcome after hemiarthroplasty for displaced proximal humeral fractures and to review whether prosthesis type, intraoperative technique or previous ipsilateral shoulder surgery could affect the outcome.
Sonography for diagnosis of rotator cuff tear. Comparison with observations at surgery in 58 shoulders.	To investigate the correlation between ultrasonographic and anatomic changes of the rotator cuff of the shoulder, we studied the findings in 58 surgical cases. Fifteen cases had a full thickness tear, 10 of which had a positive and 5 a negative ultrasonogram. Nine cases had partial tears of the cuff on the bursal side. Ultrasonographically, 3 of these were normal. Among the 34 cases that proved to be normal at surgery, 9 had positive ultrasonograms. The predictive value of a negative examination was 0.8, whereas the predictive value of a positive examination was 0.6. A cautious attitude towards ultrasonography for evaluation of the rotator cuff seems appropriate.
Transient decreases in forelimb gait and ground reaction forces following rotator cuff injury and repair in a rat model.	Due to inadequate healing, surgical repairs of torn rotator cuff tendons often fail, limiting the recovery of upper extremity function. The rat is frequently used to study rotator cuff healing; however, there are few systems capable of quantifying forelimb function necessary to interpret the clinical significance of tissue level healing. We constructed a device to capture images, ground reaction forces and torques, as animals ambulated in a confined walkway, and used it to evaluate forelimb function in uninjured control and surgically injured/repaired animals. Ambulatory data were recorded before (D-1), and 3, 7, 14, 28 and 56 days after surgery. Speed as well as step width and length were determined by analyzing ventral images, and ground reaction forces were normalized to body weight. Speed averaged 22+/-6 cm/s and was not affected by repair or time. Step width and length of uninjured animals compared well to values measured with our previous system. Forelimbs were used primarily for braking (-1.6+/-1.5% vs +2.5+/-0.6%), bore less weight than hind limbs (49+/-5% vs 58+/-4%), and showed no differences between sides (49+/-5% vs 46+/-5%) for uninjured control animals. Step length and ground reaction forces of the repaired animals were significantly less than control initially (days 3, 7 and 14 post-surgery), but not by day 28. Our new device provided uninjured ambulatory data consistent with our previous system and available literature, and measured reductions in forelimb function consistent with the deficit expected by our surgical model.
Teres major muscle activation relates to clinical outcome in tendon transfer surgery.	In massive rotator cuff tears a teres major (TMj) tendon transfer to the insertion of the supraspinatus (SSp) reverses its adduction moment arm into abduction which is supposed to be an adequate salvage procedure. Analysis of muscle function to find biomechanical ground of such success is scarce.
The subscapularis: anatomy, injury, and imaging.	The subscapularis is the largest and most powerful of the rotator cuff muscles and fulfills an important role in glenohumeral movement and stability. The spectrum and implications of subscapularis muscle or tendon injury differ from injury to other rotator cuff components because of its unique structure and function. Diagnosing subscapularis injury is clinically difficult and assessment of subscapularis integrity may be limited during arthroscopy or open surgery. Diagnostic imaging plays an important part in diagnosing and evaluating the extent of subscapularis injury. The radiologist should be aware of the anatomy of the subscapularis, the variations in muscle or tendon injury, and the potential implications for treatment and prognosis.
Simultaneous acute rotator cuff tear and distal biceps rupture in a strongman competitor.	Acute rotator cuff tear is commonly associated with tearing of the proximal biceps tendon, but has never been reported to occur simultaneously with a distal biceps tendon rupture. A 38-year-old right-hand-dominant strongman competitor attempted a 300-pound overhead axle press and experienced immediate pain in the right shoulder and elbow. He had no known systemic risk factors for tendon ruptures including hyperparathyroidism, hemodialysis, alcoholism, rheumatoid arthritis, statin medications, fluoroquinolones, and steroid use.Right shoulder magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a full-thickness supraspinatus tear with 3 cm of retraction. There was minimal fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus on the sagittal cuts consistent with acute rupture. The subscapularis was intact. The long head of the biceps tendon had mild medial subluxation but was completely within the bicipital groove. Right elbow MRI showed a complete distal biceps tendon rupture. Thirteen days after his injury, the patient underwent arthroscopic supraspinatus repair and proximal biceps tenodesis. Distal biceps tendon repair was performed using the modified 2-incision muscle-splitting technique. At 24-month follow-up, the patient was pain free and had returned to full activity including weightlifting but had not returned to strongman competition.This is the first report of simultaneous acute full thickness ruptures of the rotator cuff and distal biceps tendon. This case report underscores the importance of a complete physical examination and a high index of suspicion for additional concomitant injuries, particularly in athletes with unusually high stresses to the body. 
Rehabilitative and infiltrative treatment with hyaluronic acid in elderly patients with rotator cuff tears.	Rotator cuff tears are an important cause of disability. It is frequently observed in elderly people with a consequent loss of autonomy in daily life activities. The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of the infiltrative treatment with hyaluronic acid, followed by a selective rehabilitative programme in elderly patients who do not present indications for surgical treatment. Twenty-two patients were selected (14 men and 8 women), ranging from 70 to 89 years, (mean age 78.1) with rotator cuff tears. They underwent to a conservative treatment consisting in a series of 3 infiltrations (once a week) with hyaluronic acid (jointex starter molecular weight: 800-1200 kdalton) followed by a specific rehabilitative treatment (passive and active assisted kinesitherapy). Each patient was evaluated for pain through a Visual Analogic Scale (V.A.S.). Costant Murley and the Shoulder Rating Questionnairev were adopted to analyze the loss of range of motion of the shoulder as well as autonomy in daily life activities. The obtained results were statistically significant (p < 0.0005), both for the reduction of pain and for the improvement of range of motion and autonomy in daily life activities. The encouraging results obtained with this treatment could be considered as a valid choice instead of a surgical treatment in selected cases.
Rupture of the long head biceps tendon treated with tenodesis to the coracoid process. Results at more than 30 years.	We evaluated patients at very long term with rupture of the long head biceps tendon (LHBT) in whom the tendon stump had been sutured to the coracoid tip (Gilcreest technique). Our aim was to determine the natural history of shoulders deprived of the LHBT and to assess the validity of the surgical technique. Between 1969 and 1981, 30 patients with rupture of the LHBT and no evidence of cuff tear underwent the Gilcreest operation. The mean age of the patients was 32 years (range, 20-49). Six of them were professional gymnasts. The 28 patients that could be traced were evaluated a mean of 31 years after operation. The mean Constant score (CS) was 74 in the entire group, and 86 in 22. The latter patients complained occasionally of mild shoulder pain. The remaining six patients had a mean CS of 56 (range, 40-81). Of the six, four (aged 66-71 years) had clinical and MR evidence of rotator cuff tear. The other two had undergone arthroscopic cuff repair (CS, 75-81). After operation, all professional gymnasts had returned to sport activity and all the other patients had resumed their jobs. After 30 years, the majority of the patients who had undergone the Gilcreest operation had good functional and cosmetic outcomes. Only a few patients had a cuff tear. The role of the LHBT as depressor of the humeral head is probably less important than generally believed.
Does a positive neer impingement sign reflect rotator cuff contact with the acromion?	One possible cause of shoulder pain is rotator cuff contact with the superior glenoid (cuff-glenoid contact) with the arm in flexion, as occurs during a Neer impingement sign. It has been assumed that the pain with a Neer impingement sign on physical examination of the shoulder was secondary to the rotator cuff making contact with the anterior and lateral acromion.
Suture-bridge subscapularis tendon repair technique using low anterior portals.	A suture-bridge technique has been introduced to facilitate fixation procedures and to achieve increased holding strength in posterosuperior rotator cuff. Based on biomechanical studies, this technique has been suggested as an effective method that could optimize rotator cuff tendon-footprint contact area and mean pressure, as well as holding strength. In this technique, the suture-bridge creation is adapted for arthroscopic subscapularis repair to attain the ideal cuff integrity and footprint restoration. To obtain enough working portals and space, two accessory portals were made on the anterior aspect of the shoulder and use an elevator to retract the conjoined tendons and deltoid muscle. This technique could be useful for the repair of subscapularis tears, which are not easily approached using other arthroscopic techniques. From a biomechanical point of view, the subscapularis tendon could be restored more ideally using the suture-bridge technique.
Can reverse shoulder arthroplasty be used with few complications in rheumatoid arthritis?	Many patients with rheumatoid arthritis develop superior migration of the humeral head because of massive cuff tears, causing loss of active motion. Reverse shoulder arthroplasty could potentially restore biomechanical balance but a high incidence of glenoid failure has been reported. These studies do not, however, typically include many patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and it is unclear whether the failure rates are similar.
Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty improves function in cuff tear arthropathy.	Early failure due to glenoid loosening with anatomic total shoulder arthroplasty in patients with severe rotator cuff deficiency led to the development of the reverse ball-and-socket shoulder prosthesis. The literature reports improved short-term pain and function scores following modern reverse total shoulder arthroplasty (RTSA) in patients with cuff tear arthropathy (CTA).
What do standard radiography and clinical examination tell about the shoulder with cuff tear arthropathy?	This study evaluates the preoperative conventional anteroposterior radiography and clinical testing in non-operated patients with cuff tear arthropathy. It analyses the radiological findings in relation to the status of the rotator cuff and clinical status as also the clinical testing in relation to the rotator cuff quality. The aim of the study is to define the usefulness of radiography and clinical examination in cuff tear arthropathy.
Grammont's idea: The story of Paul Grammont's functional surgery concept and the development of the reverse principle.	The increased use of the reverse prosthesis over the last 10 years is due to a large series of publications using the reverse prosthesis developed by Paul Grammont. However, there is no article reporting the story of the concepts developed by Grammont.
Molecular mechanism of fatty degeneration in rotator cuff muscle with tendon rupture.	Fatty degeneration often occurs in rotator cuff muscle with tendon rupture. However, the molecular mechanism underlying this change has not been fully clarified yet. We investigated the gene expression of Wnt10b and adipogenic marker gene, PPAR and C/EBP in C2C12 myogenic cell line under inhibition of Wnt10b by adipogenic induction medium, isobutylmethylxanthine, dexamethasone, and insulin (MDI). The role of Wnt-signal was confirmed by adding Lithium chloride (LiCl), which mimics Wnt signaling to the cultured cell with MDI. We also assessed the expression profiles of same genes in the rat rotator cuff tear model in vivo. MDI induced Oil red-O staining positive adipocytes and upregulated PPAR and C/EBP expression. LiCl inhibited adipogenic induction of MDI. Rotator cuff muscle with tendon rupture showed positive staining for Oil red-O. Real-time polymerase chain reaction analyses revealed decreased expression of Wnt10b followed by increased PPAR and C/EBP gene expression in the supraspinatus muscle. Fatty degeneration and its molecular events were remarkably seen in the distal one-third of the detached supraspinatus muscle versus control. Wnt signaling may regulate adipogenic differentiation both in the myoblasts in vitro and the muscle in vivo. Our results indicate that the reduction of Wnt10b in muscle with a rotator cuff tear is a key signal in fatty degeneration of the muscle.
Biceps tendon properties worsen initially but improve over time following rotator cuff tears in a rat model.	Damage to the biceps tendon is often seen in conjunction with rotator cuff tears. However, controversy exists regarding its role in the shoulder and its optimal treatment. A previous study determined that biceps tendons were detrimentally affected in the presence of rotator cuff tears in the rat model and this damage worsened over time. However, whether this damage progresses at later time points to provide a chronic model is unknown. The objective of this study was to determine the changes in the biceps tendon in the presence of a cuff tear over time. Our hypothesis was that histological, compositional, organizational, and mechanical properties would worsen with time. We detached the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons of 48 rats and evaluated these properties at 1, 4, 8, and 16 weeks postdetachment. Properties worsened through 8 weeks, but improved between 8 and 16 weeks. We therefore conclude that biceps tendon changes in this model are not truly chronic. Additionally, it has been shown that infraspinatus properties in this model return to normal by 16 weeks, when biceps properties improve, indicating that earlier repair of one or more of the rotator cuff tendons may lead to resolved pathology of the long head of the biceps tendon.
Two-stage reimplantation for treating prosthetic shoulder infections.	Two-stage reimplantation for prosthetic joint infection reportedly has the lowest risk for recurrent infection. Most studies to date have evaluated revision surgery for infection using an anatomic prosthetic. As compared with anatomic prostheses, reverse total shoulder arthroplasty is reported to have a higher rate of infection.
Reverse prostheses in arthropathies with cuff tear: are survivorship and function maintained over time?	The use of reverse shoulder arthroplasty has considerably increased since first introduced in 1985. Despite demonstrating early improvement of function and pain, there is limited information regarding the durability and longer-term outcomes of this prosthesis.
Do less medialized reverse shoulder prostheses increase motion and reduce notching?	Cuff tear arthropathy is the primary indication for total reverse shoulder arthroplasty. In patients with pseudoparalytic shoulders secondary to irreparable rotator cuff tear, reverse shoulder arthroplasty allows restoration of active anterior elevation and painless shoulder. High rates of glenoid notching have also been reported. We designed a new reverse shoulder arthroplasty with a center of rotation more lateral than the Delta prosthesis to address this problem.
Scapula fractures after reverse total shoulder arthroplasty: classification and treatment.	Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty (RTSA) implants have been developed to treat patients with deficient rotator cuffs. The nature of this procedure's complications and how these complications should be managed continues to evolve. Fractures of the scapula after RTSA have been described, but the incidence and best methods of treatment are unclear.
How reverse shoulder arthroplasty works.	The reverse total shoulder arthroplasty was introduced to treat the rotator cuff-deficient shoulder. Since its introduction, an improved understanding of the biomechanics of rotator cuff deficiency and reverse shoulder arthroplasty has facilitated the development of modern reverse arthroplasty designs.
A radiographic classification of massive rotator cuff tear arthritis.	In 1990, Hamada et al. radiographically classified massive rotator cuff tears into five grades. Walch et al. subsequently subdivided Grade 4 to reflect the presence/absence of subacromial arthritis and emphasize glenohumeral arthritis as a characteristic of Grade 4.
Shoulder ultrasonography versus arthroscopy for the detection of rotator cuff tears: analysis of errors.	To compare shoulder ultrasonography with arthroscopy for detecting specific rotator cuff tears.
Estimation of dynamic, in vivo soft-tissue deformation: experimental technique and application in a canine model of tendon injury and repair.	Outcomes after rotator cuff surgery are typically assessed with measures of strength, joint motion, or pain, but these measures do not provide a direct assessment of tissue function as healing progresses. To address this limitation, this manuscript describes biplane X-ray analysis as a technique for quantifying in vivo soft-tissue deformation. Tantalum beads were implanted in the humerus and infraspinatus tendon in a canine model of tendon injury and repair. Biplane X-ray images were acquired during treadmill trotting and tissue deformation was estimated from the three-dimensional bead positions. Changes over time were characterized by the mean, range, and normalized range (i.e., range/mean) of interbead distance. Intact tendon repair tissue demonstrated significant decreases over time in the mean (p= 0.003), range (p = 0.001), and normalized range (p = 0.001) of interbead distance. Failed tendon repair tissue demonstrated significant decreases over time in the range (p = 0.05) and normalized range (p = 0.04) of interbead distance. In an uninjured control, differences over time in the interbead distance parameters were not detected. This approach is a promising technique for estimating changes over time in soft-tissue deformation. These preliminary data indicate appreciable differences between normal tendons, intact repairs, and failed repairs.
Open repair for massive rotator cuff tear with a modified transosseous-equivalent procedure: preliminary results at short-term follow-up.	Many surgical procedures have been reported for rotator cuff tears. We adopted the modified transosseous-equivalent procedure, also termed "surface-holding repair with transosseous sutures," and demonstrated that this procedure has a biomechanical advantage regarding the concentration of stress on the tendon stump. This study aimed to evaluate the clinical and structural outcomes of this technique, which has been demonstrated by postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to produce high intact rates.
Why repair the subscapularis? A logical rationale.	Tears of the subscapularis tendon are now more frequently recognized and are often associated with tears of the posterosuperior rotator cuff tendons. This has been facilitated by arthroscopic approaches, and repair techniques have been developed. In the setting of a rotator cuff repair, when a subscapularis tendon tear is found in continuity with a supraspinatus tendon tear, it is essential to recognize how the repair of both tendon tears can influence the overall security of the entire repair construct. When a repairable subscapularis tendon tear is left unrepaired, the function of the subscapularis muscle will be lost. In addition, the posterosuperior rotator cuff tear will be more difficult to repair, and it will be less securely repaired. When the subscapularis tendon is repaired initially, the posterosuperior rotator cuff repair can be more easily and more reliable achieved.
Outcomes of arthroscopic versus open rotator cuff repair: a systematic review of the literature.	Full-thickness rotator cuff tears are common. When symptomatic, they can affect quality of life. Surgical repair might improve patients' overall health. We systematically reviewed postoperative outcomes in 10 studies comparing mini-open repair and all-arthroscopic repair techniques. Data regarding patient demographics, rotator cuff pathology, postoperative rehabilitation protocols, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) scores, University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) scores, pain scores, and incidence of recurrent defects were extracted. There were no statistically significant differences between groups within each study in terms of these data points. One study found decreased pain 6 months after surgery in the all-arthroscopic group versus the miniopen repair group. This systematic literature review indicates there is no statistically significant difference in postoperative ASES, UCLA, or pain scores or incidence of recurrent rotator cuff tears in rotator cuffs repaired all-arthroscopically versus using the mini-open technique. However, there might be decreased short-term pain in patients who undergo arthroscopic repairs.
Leukocyte- and platelet-rich fibrin (L-PRF) for long-term delivery of growth factor in rotator cuff repair: review, preliminary results and future directions.	Surgical repair of the rotator cuff repair is one of the most common procedures in orthopedic surgery. Despite it being the focus of much research, the physiological tendon-bone insertion is not recreated following repair and there is an anatomic non-healing rate of up to 94%. During the healing phase, several growth factors are upregulated that induce cellular proliferation and matrix deposition. Subsequently, this provisional matrix is replaced by the definitive matrix. Leukocyte- and platelet-rich fibrin (L-PRF) contain growth factors and has a stable dense fibrin matrix. Therefore, use of LPRF in rotator cuff repair is theoretically attractive. The aim of the present study was to determine 1) the optimal protocol to achieve the highest leukocyte content; 2) whether L-PRF releases growth factors in a sustained manner over 28 days; 3) whether standard/gelatinous or dry/compressed matrix preparation methods result in higher growth factor concentrations. 1) The standard L-PRF centrifugation protocol with 400 x g showed the highest concentration of platelets and leukocytes. 2) The L-PRF clots cultured in medium showed a continuous slow release with an increase in the absolute release of growth factors TGF-1, VEGF and MPO in the first 7 days, and for IGF1, PDGF-AB and platelet activity (PF4=CXCL4) in the first 8 hours, followed by a decrease to close to zero at 28 days. Significantly higher levels of growth factor were expressed relative to the control values of normal blood at each culture time point. 3) Except for MPO and the TGF-1, there was always a tendency towards higher release of growth factors (i.e., CXCL4, IGF-1, PDGF-AB, and VEGF) in the standard/gelatinous- compared to the dry/compressed group. L-PRF in its optimal standard/gelatinous-type matrix can store and deliver locally specific healing growth factors for up to 28 days and may be a useful adjunct in rotator cuff repair.
Prevalence of neurologic lesions after total shoulder arthroplasty.	Clinically evident neurologic injury of the involved limb after total shoulder arthroplasty is not uncommon, but the subclinical prevalence is unknown. The purposes of this prospective study were to determine the subclinical prevalence of neurologic lesions after reverse shoulder arthroplasty and anatomic shoulder arthroplasty, and to evaluate the correlation of neurologic injury to postoperative lengthening of the arm.
Rotator cuff repair healing influenced by platelet-rich plasma construct augmentation.	To assess the effect of platelet-rich plasma fibrin matrix (PRPFM) construct augmentation on postoperative tendon healing as determined by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and clinical outcome of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.
Intra-articular changes precede extra-articular changes in the biceps tendon after rotator cuff tears in a rat model.	Biceps tendon pathology is common with rotator cuff tears. The mechanisms for biceps changes, and therefore its optimal treatment, are unknown. Our objective was to determine the effect of rotator cuff tears on regional biceps tendon pathology. We hypothesized that histologic and compositional changes would appear before organizational changes, both would appear before mechanical changes, and changes would begin at the tendon's insertion site.
The effect of tear size and nerve injury on rotator cuff muscle fatty degeneration in a rodent animal model.	Irreversible muscle changes after rotator cuff tears is a well-known negative prognostic factor after shoulder surgery. Currently, little is known about the pathomechanism of fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles after chronic cuff tears. The purposes of this study were to (1) develop a rodent animal model of chronic rotator cuff tears that can reproduce fatty degeneration of the cuff muscles seen clinically, (2) describe the effects of tear size and concomitant nerve injury on muscle degeneration, and (3) evaluate the changes in gene expression of relevant myogenic and adipogenic factors after rotator cuff tears using the animal model.
Serial structural and functional assessments of rotator cuff repairs: do they differ at 6 and 19 months postoperatively?	Some studies have shown that rotator cuff tendon (RCT) retears occur early after surgery and ultimate failure strength is reached at between 3 and 6 months. However, few clinical studies have been reported to support their theory. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the RCT integrity after repair showed any difference at 6 months and at 19 months postoperatively.
Biomechanical comparison of suture anchor versus margin convergence plus suture anchor for rotator cuff repair.	To evaluate results of margin convergence versus suture anchors in rotator cuff repair, and to determine which method is mechanically superior.
Diagnosis of bursal-side partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.	To study the clinical features and diagnosis of bursal-side partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.
Focal cerebral ischemia after surgery in the "beach chair" position: the role of a congenital variation of circle of Willis anatomy.	A 50-year-old man underwent shoulder surgery in the beach chair position. His mean arterial blood pressure at arm level was approximately 65 mm Hg. Postoperatively, there was delayed awakening and a right hemiparesis. Radiologic evaluation revealed a congenital asymmetry of the circle of Willis that resulted in limited collateral flow to the left anterior and middle cerebral artery distributions. Similar anatomical variations are relatively common in the general population and may render some patients relatively and unpredictably more vulnerable to hypotension.
Arthroscopic side-to-side repair of massive and contracted rotator cuff tears using a single uninterrupted suture: the shoestring bridge technique.	This study was performed to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of a new side-to-side repair technique for massive rotator cuff tears using a single uninterrupted suture in the configuration of a shoestring in a medial-to-lateral progression.
Arthroscopic partial repair of irreparable large to massive rotator cuff tears.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the outcome of arthroscopic partial repair and margin convergence of irreparable large to massive rotator cuff tears.
Biomechanical and magnetic resonance imaging evaluation of a single- and double-row rotator cuff repair in an in vivo sheep model.	To investigate the biomechanical and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-derived morphologic changes between single- and double-row rotator cuff repair at different time points after fixation.
Arm adductor with arm abduction in rotator cuff tear patients vs. healthy -- design of a new measuring instrument [corrected].	The incidence of (a)symptomatic rotator cuff tears is high, but etiologic mechanisms are unclear and treatment outcomes vary. A practical tool providing objective outcome measures and insight into etiology and potential patient subgroups is desirable. Symptomatic cuff tears coincide with humerus cranialization. Adductor co-activation during active arm abduction has been reported to reduce subacromial narrowing and pain in cuff patients. We present an easy-to-use method to evaluate adductor co-activation. Twenty healthy controls and twenty full-thickness cuff tear patients exerted EMG-recorded isometric arm abduction and adduction tasks. Ab- and adductor EMG's were expressed using the "Activation Ratio (AR)" (-1  AR  1), where lower values express more co-activation. Mean control AR's ranged from .7 to .9 with moderate to good test-retest reliability (ICC: .60-.74). Patients showed significantly more adductor co-activation during abduction, with adductor AR's ranging between .3 (teres major) and .5 (latissimus dorsi). In conclusion, the introduced method discriminates symptomatic cuff tear patients from healthy controls, quantifies adductor co-activation in an interpretable measure, and provides the opportunity to study correlations between muscle activation and humerus cranialization in a straightforward manner. It has potential as an objective outcome measure, for distinguishing symptomatic from asymptomatic cuff tears and as a tool for surgical or therapeutic decision-making.
Long-term outcome of arthroscopic massive rotator cuff repair: the importance of double-row fixation.	The purpose of this study was to (1) evaluate the long-term functional outcome of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair of massive rotator cuff tears (RCTs) and (2) compare double-row (DR) and single-row (SR) repairs.
Functional and clinical outcome of total shoulder arthroplasty with oversized glenoid.	The Epoca-Reconstruction-(Reco)-Glenoid has been developed to treat patients with cuff-tear-arthropathy. The glenoid component of this system has a hemispheric shape that canopies the humeral head. This design is believed to provide a stable fulcrum and restore normal deltoid function. The purpose of this study was to analyse strengths and disadvantages of the Epoca-Reco-Glenoid in cuff-tear-arthropathy patients. Changes in functional outcome using Constant-Murley-Scoring(CMS), CMS sub-scoring parameters and radiological outcome were analysed. For this purpose, a classification for radiologic lucency was proposed. Diverging results, influencing factors and alternative treatment options have been discussed to analyse weaknesses and enhance future development of this arthroplastic model.
The effect of platelet-rich fibrin matrix on rotator cuff tendon healing: a prospective, randomized clinical study.	There is a strong need for methods to improve the biological potential of rotator cuff tendon healing. Platelet-rich fibrin matrix (PRFM) allows delivery of autologous cytokines to healing tissue, and limited evidence suggests a positive effect of platelet-rich plasma on tendon biology.
Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears: a systematic review.	Massive and irreparable posterior-superior rotator cuff tears present a difficult treatment problem. The purpose of this systematic review was to critically examine the outcomes of latissimus dorsi tendon transfers for the treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears.
Scapular dyskinesis and its relation to shoulder injury.	The scapula plays a key role in nearly every aspect of normal shoulder function. Scapular dyskinesis-altered scapular positioning and motion-is found in association with most shoulder injuries. Basic science and clinical research findings have led to the identification of normal three-dimensional scapular kinematics in scapulohumeral rhythm and to abnormal kinematics in shoulder injury, the development of clinical methods of evaluating the scapula (eg, scapular assistance test, scapular retraction test), and the formulation of rehabilitation guidelines. Primary scapular presentations such as scapular winging and snapping should be managed with a protocol that is focused on the scapula. Persons with associated conditions such as shoulder impingement, rotator cuff disease, labral injury, clavicle fracture, acromioclavicular joint injury, and multidirectional instability should be evaluated for scapular dyskinesis and treated accordingly.
Terrible triad of the shoulder in a competitive athlete.	The terrible triad injury to a shoulder consists of shoulder dislocation, rotator cuff tear, and brachial plexus palsy. We present a case of a high velocity shoulder dislocation in an athlete with concomitant massive rotator cuff tear and incomplete infraclavicular brachial plexus injury. In this injury, most neurologic symptoms resolve, prompt surgical intervention is warranted, and comprehensive physical therapy is integral to recovery.
A comparison of outcomes after arthroscopic repair of partial versus small or medium-sized full-thickness rotator cuff tears.	Little is known about the outcomes after repair of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. The aim of this study was to assess the outcome after repair of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears compared with full-thickness tears. Our hypothesis was that repair of partial-thickness tears leads to more shoulder stiffness but fewer retears compared with repair of full-thickness tears.
Classification and analysis of pathology of the long head of the biceps tendon in complete rotator cuff tears.	Pathology of the long head of the biceps tendon (LHB) is commonly associated with rotator cuff tears (RCTs). Superior labral anterior-posterior (SLAP) lesions can also occur with RCTs. The purpose of this study was to include SLAP lesions as part of LHB pathology in surgical cases of RCT and define the role of SLAP lesions in RCTs.
Is arthroscopic coracoplasty necessary in subcoracoid impingement syndrome?	The purpose of this study was to analyze the outcomes of arthroscopic coracoplasty in the treatment of subcoracoid impingement syndrome.
Intraoperative determinants of rotator cuff repair integrity: an analysis of 500 consecutive repairs.	Rotator cuff repair has a relatively high (20%-90%) chance of retears. Patients with an intact rotator cuff 6 months after surgery have better subjective and objective outcomes at 6 months and 2 years after rotator cuff repair than those who do not have an intact repair.
Open transosseous reconstruction of the rotator cuff: clinical outcome, influencing factors and complications]	Open transosseous rotator cuff reconstruction (RCR) still plays a prominent role in current treatment of rotator cuff tears. This study aimed to examine mid-term and long-term results of clinical outcome, determine influencing factors and analyze complications.
Arthroscopic percutaneous repair of anterosuperior rotator cuff tear including biceps long head: a 2-year follow-up.	To report the results of an arthroscopic percutaneous repair technique for partial-thickness tears of the anterosuperior cuff combined with a biceps lesion.
Smoking and operative treatment of rotator cuff tear.	This registry study was set up to evaluate the effect of smoking on the pre-operative status, intraoperative findings, and post-operative status after rotator cuff reconstruction. Five hundred seventy-six consecutive shoulders with primarily arthroscopically repaired penetrating rotator cuff tear were followed up. Tobacco consumption was recorded as pack-years. Age-adjusted Constant score was used as an outcome measure. Five hundred sixty-four patients were available for 1-year follow-up (dropout rate 2%). One hundred fourteen (20%) and 450 (80%) patients were pre-operatively recorded to be smokers and non-smokers, respectively. The gender distribution did not differ between the groups (P = 0.286). The mean age of all patients was 55 years in smokers (SD 9.1) and 61 years in non-smokers (SD 9.4) (P < 0.001). There was no statistically significant difference in pre-operative Constant score (P = 0.075) or mean size of intraoperatively measured tendon tear (P = 0.290) between the groups. At final follow-up, there was a statistically significant difference in Constant scores between smokers [71 (SE 1.4)] and non-smokers [75 (SE 0.7)] (P = 0.017). The pack-years of smoking correlated with neither the Constant score (P = 0.815) nor the size of the tear (P = 0.786). We conclude that operatively treated rotator cuff tear patients who smoked were significantly younger than non-smokers, and that smoking was associated with lower post-operative Constant score.
Multimodal analgesia for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial.	The aim of the study was to investigate whether a multimodal analgesia (MMA) protocol reduces postoperative pain and opioids consumption in patients undergoing arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.
Outcomes of single-row versus double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: a systematic review and meta-analysis of current evidence.	Our purpose was to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of the clinical outcomes of single-row versus double-row repair.
Microfractures at the rotator cuff footprint: a randomised controlled study.	Microfractures at the footprint may be a potential additional source of growth factor and enhance the tendon healing at the bone-tendon junction when repairing rotator cuff tears.
The acromial index is not predictive for failed rotator cuff repair.	The main objective of this study was to evaluate the association between the acromial index (AI) and the incidence of recurrent tears of the rotator cuff (RC) in a cohort of patients with full thickness tears who underwent arthroscopic primary repair.
Delayed early passive motion is harmless to shoulder rotator cuff healing in a rabbit model.	Postoperative passive motion is the most widely accepted rehabilitation protocol after rotator cuff repair; however, a rotator cuff retear remains a frequent surgical complication. Clinical outcomes indicate that early passive motion is harmless to rotator cuff healing, but no laboratory evidence supports this proposition.
Results of arthroscopic partial repair of large retracted rotator cuff tears.	To evaluate the midterm results of partial rotator cuff repair using the Constant score and the acromiohumeral radiographic measurement.
One-stage arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears withshoulder stiffness.	The purpose of this study is to describe a 1-stage treatment with concomitant arthroscopic capsular release and rotator cuff repair and present clinical outcomes with a minimum follow-up of 2 years.
Tendon transfers for irreparable rotator cuff tears.	Tendon transfer is one treatment option for patients with massive irreparable rotator cuff tears. Although surgical indications are not clearly defined, the traditional thought is that the ideal candidate is young and lacks significant glenohumeral arthritis. The proposed benefits of tendon transfers are pain relief and potential increase in strength. The biomechanical rationale for the procedure is to restore the glenohumeral joint force couple and possibly to restore normal shoulder kinematics. The selection of donor tendon depends on the location of the rotator cuff deficiency. Transfers of latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major tendons have been shown to consistently improve pain; however, functional benefits are unpredictable. Trapezius tendon transfer may be an alternative in patients with massive posterosuperior rotator cuff tears, although longer-term follow-up is required. 
The effect of shoulder manipulation on rotator cuff integrity.	The use of shoulder manipulation in the treatment of frozen shoulder remains controversial. Humeral fractures and neurological damage are the risks associated with the procedure. A concern of causing a rotator cuff tear exists but the incidence of iatrogenic rotator cuff tears is not reported. The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of shoulder manipulation for frozen shoulder on the integrity of the rotator cuff. In a prospective study, 32 consecutive patients (33 shoulders) with the diagnosis of frozen shoulder underwent manipulation of the shoulder under anaesthesia (MUA), 18 female and 15 males with mean age at manipulation of 503 years (range: 42-63). The average duration of symptoms before treatment was 6.2 months (range: 2-18 months). The patients were examined prior to the manipulation and at follow-up for combined shoulder range of motion, external and internal rotation and strength. All patients had an ultrasound assessment of the rotator cuff before and at 3 weeks after manipulation of the shoulder. Mean time between manipulation and last follow-up was 133 weeks. None of the patients had ultrasound findings of a rotator cuff tear, prior to the manipulation. In all patients the rotator cuff remained undamaged on ultrasound examination at 3 weeks after the procedure. The mean improvement in motion was 81.2 degrees (from 933 degrees pre-op to 174.5 degrees at last follow-up) for forward flexion; 102.6 degrees (from 68.8 degrees pre-op to 171.4 degrees at last follow-up) for abduction, 49.4 degrees (from 8.8 degrees pre-op to 58.2 degrees at last follow-up) for external rotation and 3.5 levels of internal rotation (range: 2 to 5 levels). These gains in motion were all highly significant (p < 0.0001). No fractures, dislocations or nerve palsies were observed. In this study, manipulation of the shoulder has not been associated with rotator cuff tears. If done properly the procedure appeared to be safe and to result in a marked improvement of range of movement and function.
Multiple channeling improves the structural integrity of rotator cuff repair.	Multiple channeling is a straightforward additional procedure for rotator cuff repair that creates multiple channels in the greater tuberosity, through which bone marrow of the proximal humerus communicates with the repair site.
Effect of postoperative repair integrity on health-related quality of life after rotator cuff repair: healed versus retear group.	Although rotator cuff repair is performed to improve health-related quality of life (HRQL) by reducing pain and improving shoulder function, it has not been clearly demonstrated that HRQL is improved in retear cases.
Can glenohumeral joint isokinetic strength and range of movement predict injury in professional rugby league.	To isokinetically record shoulder strength scores and range of motion in a professional rugby league squad. To prospectively monitor injuries over a season looking for associations between measured variables and injury.
Revision to reverse shoulder arthroplasty with retention of the humeral component.	Revision in failed shoulder arthroplasty often requires removal of the humeral component with a significant risk of fracture and bone loss. Newer modular systems allow conversion from anatomic to reverse shoulder arthroplasty with retention of a well-fixed humeral stem. We report on a prospectively evaluated series of conversions from hemiarthroplasty to reverse shoulder arthroplasty.
Feasibility of latissimus and teres major transfer to reconstruct irreparable subscapularis tendon tear: an anatomic study.	Several tendon transfers have been described to reconstruct irreparable subscapularis (SS) tears, but their outcomes are variable and unsatisfactory in the presence of anterior glenohumeral subluxation. We evaluated the anatomic feasibility of the latissimus dorsi (LD) or teres major (TM) muscle tendon transfer to reconstruct an irreparable SS tendon tear.
2013 Neer Award: Effect of the adipose-derived stem cell for the improvement of fatty degeneration and rotator cuff healing in rabbit model.	This study was conducted to verify the effects of adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) on tendon healing and reversal of fatty infiltration in a chronic rotator cuff tear model by using the rabbit subscapularis (SSC).
Does the latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for massive rotator cuff tears remain active postoperatively and restore active external rotation?	The purpose of this study is to evaluate the muscle activity with surface electromyography (EMG) and the clinical outcome of the latissimus dorsi transfer. It remains unclear whether the clinical results of the latissimus dorsi transfer for massive posterosuperior rotator cuff tears are achieved either by active muscle contractions or by a passive tenodesis effect of the transfer.
Incidence and predictors of hospitalization for tendon rupture in type 2 diabetes: the Fremantle diabetes study.	To determine the incidence and predictors of tendon ruptures requiring hospitalization of representative patients with type 2 diabetes.
Low accuracy of interpretation of rotator cuff MRI in patients with osteoarthritis.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is considered to be a valuable tool for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears in patients with severe glenohumeral osteoarthritis who are indicated for total shoulder arthroplasty (TSA). We determined the sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value of MRI in diagnosing rotator cuff tears in such patients.
Medial grasping sutures significantly improve load tofailure of the rotator cuff suture bridge repair.	The suture bridge (SB) transosseous-equivalent rotator cuff repair reduces re-tear rates compared with single-row or other double-row constructs. However, failure rates continue to be high, especially in large and massive tears. The aim of this study was to assess the biomechanical performance of a new SB repair with use of a medial grasping suture compared with the traditional SB repair.
Biomechanical characteristics of the horizontal mattress stitch: implication for double-row and suture-bridge rotator cuff repair.	We investigated the effects of bite-size horizontal mattress stitch (distance between the limbs passed through the tendon) on the biomechanical properties of the repaired tendon.
Clinical and structural outcomes after arthroscopic single-row versus double-row rotator cuff repair: a systematic review and meta-analysis of level I randomized clinical trials.	The purpose of this study was to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of all available level I randomized controlled trials comparing single-row with double-row repair to statistically compare clinical outcomes and imaging-diagnosed re-tear rates.
Disruption of the anterior-posterior rotator cuff force balance alters joint function and leads to joint damage in a rat model.	The rotator cuff assists in shoulder movement and provides dynamic stability to the glenohumeral joint. Specifically, the anterior-posterior (AP) force balance, provided by the subscapularis anteriorly and the infraspinatus and teres minor posteriorly, is critical for joint stability and concentric rotation of the humeral head on the glenoid. However, limited understanding exists of the consequences associated with disruption of the AP force balance (due to tears of both the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons) on joint function and joint damage. We investigated the effect of disrupting the APforce balance on joint function and joint damage in an overuse rat model. Twenty-eight rats underwent 4 weeks of overuse to produce a tendinopathic condition and were then randomized into two surgical groups: Detachment of the supraspinatus only or detachment of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons. Rats were then gradually returned to their overuse protocol. Quantitative ambulatory measures including medial/lateral, propulsion, braking, and vertical forces were significantly different between groups. Additionally, cartilage and adjacent tendon properties were significantly altered. These results identify joint imbalance as a mechanical mechanism for joint damage and demonstrate the importance of preserving rotator cuff balance when treating active cuff tear patients.
Shoulder injuries in golf]	Due to its growing popularity golf has now come into the focus of orthopedic sports medicine. With a wide range of age groups and playing levels, orthopedic surgeons will encounter a wide range of musculoskeletal problems which are usually the result of overuse rather than trauma.
Relationship of individual scapular anatomy and degenerative rotator cuff tears.	The etiology of rotator cuff disease is age related, as documented by prevalence data. Despite conflicting results, growing evidence suggests that distinct scapular morphologies may accelerate the underlying degenerative process. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the predictive power of 5 commonly used radiologic parameters of scapular morphology to discriminate between patients with intact rotator cuff tendons and those with torn rotator cuff tendons.
The intraoperative use of ultrasound facilitates significantly the arthroscopic debridement of calcific rotator cuff tendinitis.	During arthroscopy, the localization of calcific deposit in patients suffering from calcifying tendinitis can be demanding and time consuming, frequently using ionizing radiation. Intraoperative ultrasound has been recently promoted, facilitating deposit localization and reducing radiation dose.
Acute and overuse injuries of the shoulder in sports]	During sports the shoulder complex is exposed to considerable load especially where throwing is important and various pathological changes can occur. In the last two decades the shoulder in athletes has become a special term in clinical sports medicine
Patient adherence with postoperative restrictions after rotator cuff repair.	This study aimed to measure self-reported patient adherence to postoperative restrictions after rotator cuff repair, to evaluate correlations between adherence and functional outcome, and to identify possible indicators of poor adherence. We believed that poor adherence would correlate with poor functional outcome.
The gymnastics shoulder]	Adult gymnasts show a high prevalence of various shoulder pathologies. Due to the specific equipment used in gymnastics and the high training schedule with weekly training times up to 32h, the shoulders of gymnasts are mostly subjected to symmetrical bilateral weight bearing. This is in contrast to overhead throwing, racket and martial arts sport forms in which the load is mainly located on the dominant side.
Rehabilitation concepts and return to sport after interventions on the shoulder]	Rehabilitation of athletes following surgical interventions for shoulder injuries is of utmost importance for recovery and return to sport.
Shoulder labral pathomechanics with rotator cuff tears.	Rotator cuff tears (RCTs), the most common injury of the shoulder, are often accompanied by tears in the superior glenoid labrum. We evaluated whether superior humeral head (HH) motion secondary to RCTs and loading of the long head of the biceps tendon (LHBT) are implicated in the development of this associated superior labral pathology. Additionally, we determined the efficacy of a finite element model (FEM) for predicting the mechanics of the labrum. The HH was oriented at 30 of glenohumeral abduction and neutral rotation with 50N compressive force. Loads of 0N or 22N were applied to the LHBT. The HH was translated superiorly by 5mm to simulate superior instability caused by RCTs. Superior displacement of the labrum was affected by translation of the HH (P<0.0001), position along the labrum (P<0.0001), and interaction between the location on the labrum and LHBT tension (P<0.05). The displacements predicted by the FEM were compared with mechanical tests from 6 cadaveric specimens and all were within 1 SD of the mean. A hyperelastic constitutive law for the labrum was a better predictor of labral behavior than the elastic law and insensitive to 1 SD variations in material properties. Peak strains were observed at the glenoid-labrum interface below the LHBT attachment consistent with the common location of labral pathology. These results suggest that pathomechanics of the shoulder secondary to RCTs (e.g., superior HH translation) and LHBT loading play significant roles in the pathologic changes seen in the superior labrum. 
Reverse shoulder arthroplasty: radiological and clinical short-term results.	The aim of this study was to examine the radiological and clinical short term results of the patients who underwent reverse shoulder arthroplasty for rotator cuff arthropathy.
Effect of immobilization without passive exercise after rotator cuff repair: randomized clinical trial comparing four and eight weeks of immobilization.	While animal studies have shown better healing with a longer duration of protection without motion exercise after rotator cuff repair, supporting clinical studies are rare. The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of immobilization following rotator cuff repair and to determine whether there was any difference in clinical outcome related to the duration of immobilization.
Surface-holding repair: an original arthroscopic rotator cuff repair technique.	Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair provides satisfactory results; however, there is still a high rate of re-tear. The objective of this study was to present a surface-holding technique that we recently developed for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in detail and to evaluate the clinical outcome as well as cuff repair integrity with this new method.
Quantitative evaluation of fatty degeneration of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles using T2 mapping.	Although fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles has been reported to affect the outcomes of rotator cuff repairs, only a few studies have attempted to quantitatively evaluate this degeneration. T2 mapping is a quantitative magnetic resonance imaging technique that potentially evaluates the concentration of fat in muscles. The purpose of this study was to investigate fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles by using T2 mapping, as well as to evaluate the reliability of T2 measurement.
IL-21 receptor expression in human tendinopathy.	The pathogenetic mechanisms underlying tendinopathy remain unclear, with much debate as to whether inflammation or degradation has the prominent role. Increasing evidence points toward an early inflammatory infiltrate and associated inflammatory cytokine production in human and animal models of tendon disease. The IL-21/IL-21R axis is a proinflammatory cytokine complex that has been associated with chronic inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease. This project aimed to investigate the role and expression of the cytokine/receptor pair IL-21/IL-21R in human tendinopathy. We found significantly elevated expression of IL-21 receptor message and protein in human tendon samples but found no convincing evidence of the presence of IL-21 at message or protein level. The level of expression of IL-21R message/protein in human tenocytes was significantly upregulated by proinflammatory cytokines (TNF/IL-1) in vitro. These findings demonstrate that IL-21R is present in early human tendinopathy mainly expressed by tenocytes and macrophages. Despite a lack of IL-21 expression, these data again suggest that early tendinopathy has an inflammatory/cytokine phenotype, which may provide novel translational targets in the treatment of tendinopathy.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the postoperative shoulder.	The use of MR imaging in the evaluation of the postoperative shoulder and the findings indicative of postoperative pathology remain largely unexplored. MR imaging does seem to be diagnostic of complete rotator cuff tears following cuff repair. In all postoperative cases, a key to differentiating the expected from the pathologic is to be familiar with the procedure that was performed.
Pathogenesis of rotator cuff disorders. Magnetic resonance imaging characteristics.	In summary, rotator cuff pathology is a continuum that begins with degeneration of collagen fibers at a rate that exceeds that of repair. The degenerative process is accelerated with aging, chronic inflammatory diseases, impingement, and repetitive activity. A tendon weakened by disease may then be torn by routine physical activity. MR imaging can help predict which patients are at risk for rotator cuff disease because of abnormal anatomy and can detect the disease at an early stage so that the progression may be altered before a tear occurs.
Magnetic resonance imaging of impingement and rotator cuff tears.	This article addresses the role of MR imaging in the spectrum of impingement and rotator cuff tears. Rotator cuff and coracoacromial arch anatomy, the cause of impingement syndrome, and the pathology and imaging of calcific tendinitis are reviewed.
Arthrography in the diagnosis of injuries of the rotator cuff]	The author analyzes 132 arthrograms of patients operated on for involvement of the rotating cuff of the arm. The reliability of this technique for the detection of a complete rupture of the cuff of the arm and its inability to assess the size of the rupture and degree of retraction of the cuff of the arm are shown. Arthrographic patterns of the condition are presented.
Endoscopic acromioplasty in total rupture of the rotator cuff]	The authors have conducted a study to evaluate the possible efficacy of endoscopic decompression without repair in the treatment of rotator cuff tears.
Rotator cuff ruptures with predominant involvement of the subscapular tendon]	Among the all rotator cuff tears, the subscapularis lesions are quite rare. But a careful analysis leads to recognize them specially in case of antero-medial impingement between the coracoid process and the head of the humerus. This study of 25 observations where the rupture of the subscapularis was the predominant lesion, allows to emphasize some characteristics of them. The patients are often younger than for the other ruptures, a traumatic experience is not rare at the beginning of the history, the pain is usually the first symptom before the functional disability, the alterations of the rotator-interval and of the biceps tendon are very frequent, the arthroscanner is a very good help for the diagnosis and satisfying stitches are possible in case of early diagnoses. Lastly, the prognosis of these limited lesions is quite different than the one of very large cuff tears including the suscapularis tendon.
Lesions of the rotatory cuff: diagnostic validity of echography. Surgical findings]	Ultrasonography is the method of choice in the study of rotator cuff tears, a very frequent event especially as the final outcome of the impingement syndrome. The authors investigated US sensitivity with the retrospective review of 20 surgical patients with a chronically painful shoulder. US sensitivity was 85%, with 15% false-negative results. Seventeen true-positive cases were restudied for the three main US signs of cuff tear: marked tendon thinning was observed in 64.7% of cases, cuff disappearance in 23.5% and focal discontinuity in 11.8%. This retrospective study confirms that, whenever US shows a cuff tear, the diagnosis can be made, while when US findings are negative or questionable, but clinics are positive, MRI must be performed.
The coracoacromial arch: MR evaluation and correlation with rotator cuff pathology.	The relative prevalence of various acromial shapes, appearance of the coracoacromial ligament and enthesophytes along the inferior aspect of the acromioclavicular joint in patients with and without rotator cuff tears were evaluated. Of 76 patients with clinical instability and impingement, 31 had a normal rotator cuff and 45 demonstrated a partial or full tear of the supraspinatus tendon at surgery. Results were compared with those from magnetic resonance (MR) scans of 57 asymptomatic volunteers. Of the 45 patients with a supraspinatus tear, 38% (17) had a flat acromial undersurface (type I), 40% (18) had a concave acromial undersurface (type II), 18% (8) had an anteriorly hooked acromion (type III), and 4% (2) had an inferiorly convex acromion (type IV). Among the 31 patients with a normal rotator cuff at surgery and the 57 asymptomatic volunteers, the respective prevalences of the type I acromion were 39% (12) and 44% (25), of type II 48% (15) and 35% (20), type III 3% (1) and 12% (7), and type IV 10% (3) and 9% (5). Shoulders with surgically proven rotator cuff tears showed a tendential association with a type III acromion (8/45) and statistically significant associations with a thickened coracoacromial ligament (17/45) and acromioclavicular enthesophytes (18/45). For the association between inferiorly directed acromioclavicular joint enthesophytes and rotator cuff tears, age appears to be a confounding factor. The type IV acromion, newly classified by this study, does not have a recognizable association with rotator cuff tears.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Results of endoscopic treatment of tendinopathies of the rotator cuff (excluding total ruptures). 1: Non-calcifying tendinopathies]	The authors have studied the result of endoscopic treatment in 129 non ruptured and non calcified tendinitis of the rotator cuff as well as 33 partial thickness tears included in a multicentric study made by the french arthroscopic society. The files included a revision form using Constant's functional evaluation and filled by a physician different from the operator, and a radiological standardized evaluation allowing to appreciate, from A.P. and lateral views, the acromion shape and the importance of the resection. From the analysis of our results it appears that acromioplasty associated with a section of the coraco-acromial ligament (C.A.L.) under arthroscopic control is very efficient in tears of the superficial, bursal face of the rotator cuff. The same did not apply to the tears of the deep, articular face, as their origin is probably different. In non ruptured and non calcified tendinitis, 90 per cent of our patients were subjectively better. According to Constant's index, we noticed 75 per cent of satisfactory results. The importance of acromioplasty was not related to good results. We therefore think that one should relativise the notion of impingement between the coraco-acromial arch and the tendons of the rotator cuff. Acromioplasty is only effective on one of the factors of tendinous pain. The improvement of our indication by a better knowledge of this pathology should allow us to improve the results of an endoscopic procedure which is now well known and whose advantages do not need to be demonstrated any more.
Arthroscopically assisted rotator cuff repair: correlation of functional results with integrity of the cuff.	Thirty-three patients (35 full-thickness rotator cuff tears) who underwent arthroscopically assisted mini open repair between June 1987 and January 1990 were evaluated for shoulder function and cuff integrity. The study population was composed of 19 women and 14 men with an average age of 63 years (range 35-76) and an average follow-up of 3.7 years (range 2.5-5.1). Functional results were obtained using the UCLA Shoulder Rating Scale. Integrity of the rotator cuff was established by shoulder arthrography at a minimum 2 years postoperatively. UCLA Shoulder Rating Scale showed 86% good/excellent results with 92% patient satisfaction. The shoulder arthrography showed 12 (34%) full-thickness tears, seven (20%) partial tears, and 16 (46%) no tears. The size of the arthrographic defect correlated well with the size of the intraoperative tear. Seventy percent of the large tears had follow-up full-thickness defects and 80% of the small tears had no defect. Eighty percent and 88% good/excellent functional results were achieved in patients with full-thickness defects and no defects, respectively, without significant differences. The size of the tear at the time of the repair is a major determinant of the integrity of the cuff after repair. The integrity of the cuff at follow-up does not determine the functional outcome of the operated shoulder.
Arthroscopic subacromial decompression and rotator cuff debridement for stage II and stage III impingement.	Arthroscopic subacromial decompression and rotator cuff debridement was performed on 61 consecutive patients with either stage II or stage III impingement syndrome: 27 with no actual tear of the cuff (group IIa); 21 with a partial-thickness tear (group IIb); and 13 with full-thickness tears (group III). Patients were seen in follow-up at a minimum of 2 years (mean 27.7 months). Apical oblique and outlet radiographic views of the shoulder were used to evaluate both preoperative subacromial pathology and to document removal of adequate bone postoperatively. Patients were evaluated pre- and postoperatively using both the UCLA Shoulder Rating Scale and Neer's criteria: Twenty-four of the 61 cases were compensation related. Mean motion improved postoperatively for all stages of impingement. For all patients, preoperative UCLA and Neer ratings were unsatisfactory. In group IIa, postoperative UCLA and Neer ratings improved in 22 patients to an 81% satisfactory result rate. In group IIb, 17 patients had major improvement in UCLA and Neer ratings (also an 81% satisfactory result rate). In group III, there were 10 satisfactory and three unsatisfactory results for a 77% satisfactory result rate. Of the 10 satisfactory results, eight were in patients who were either retired or worked at sedentary jobs that did not demand above-shoulder activities and strength, and whose principal preoperative complaint was pain. All 10 of these patients had relief of their pain; the three unsatisfactory results were all compensation cases in manual laborers, one later having a satisfactory result from an open cuff repair.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Criteria for legal assessment of rotator cuff rupture]	The judgement of the correlation between an accident and a rotator cuff tear has an important role in legal and private accident insurance. Owing to the high morbidity of degenerative alterations and ruptures of the rotator cuff tendons, the causality of an acute traumatic rupture can be difficult to demonstrate, which means assessments are often controversial. In a retrospective study we evaluated 25 orthopaedic assessments and tried to find rules for an objective estimation. The judgement of correlation between trauma and rotator cuff tear should be based on four pillars: history, trauma mechanism, initial findings and course of the functional deficit. Possible mechanisms of traumatic rupture are discussed from various angles. Important clinical findings, e.g. a functional supraspinatus deficit, should be fully documented. X-Rays of both shoulders can lead to indirect demonstration of preexistent changes in the rotator cuff. Sonographic evaluation can show up the rotator cuff tear and demonstrate signs of acute injury. After persistent pain and functional deficit, in a few cases operative and microscopic findings will lead to a correct estimate of causality. Because of the diagnostic uncertainty a 20-point score is introduced for retrospective assessment of the history (2 points), trauma mechanism (3 points), initial clinical, radiological and sonographic findings (10 points) and course of functional deficit (5 points) to evaluate the role of trauma in rotator cuff tears. Using this score trauma can be classified as the main or partial cause or as irrelevant to the pathogenesis of rotator cuff tears.
Computed arthrotomography of glenohumeral instability.	In spite of recent advances in imaging technology, computed arthrotomography continues to be a useful imaging modality for shoulder evaluation. The spatial resolution of computed tomography (CT) and the longer clinical experience continue to provide advantages over magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Computed arthrotomography remains a simple and reliable method for evaluation of the glenoid labrum in patients with shoulder instability.
Magnetic resonance pathology of the rotator cuff.	This article reviews the current issues in imaging of the rotator cuff with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Important technical issues are discussed, including some of the newer pulse sequences, surface coils, and MR arthrography. Debate continues over what constitutes the normal appearance of the rotator cuff. Issues regarding studies of asymptomatic volunteers, pitfalls in imaging, and MR artifacts such as magic angle effects are discussed. The article also reviews the basic concepts of MR interpretation of pathologic lesions of the cuff, including tendinopathy, partial and complete tears, and the relationships to rotator cuff impingement.
Rotator cuff disease: a review of diagnosis, pathophysiology, and current trends in treatment.	This article reviews the anatomy, pathophysiology, and treatment of rotator cuff disease. A plan is presented to assist the clinician in making the appropriate diagnosis and proceed with adequate workup and treatment of a patient with shoulder pain.
Case report: arthroscopic repair of a type IV SLAP lesion--the red-on-white lesion as a component of anterior instability.	This case report presents a rationale and technique for repair of a vascularized red-on-white bucket-handle tear of the glenoid labrum and intraarticular biceps tendon [type IV superior labrum anterior-to-posterior (SLAP) lesion]. This lesion may occur as a component of anterior instability, and as such it demands repair at the same time as anterior surgical stabilization for instability.
Saline magnetic resonance arthrography in the evaluation of glenohumeral instability.	Sixty-five patients underwent magnetic resonance (MR) shoulder arthrography. Forty-eight of these patients underwent examination under anesthesia (EUA). MR images were retrospectively evaluated for signs felt to be imaging indicators of shoulder instability, including evaluation of various capsular measurements and the presence of glenoid labral tears, as well as Hill-Sachs fractures. Statistical analysis of the results showed that no correlation between capsular indicators with EUA-documented instability was found. However, there was a statistically significant correlation between the presence of a Bankart cartilaginous deformity (p = 0.000) and Hill-Sachs fractures (p = 0.022) with EUA-documented instability. Sensitivity to labral tears was 89% and specificity was 98%, whereas Hill-Sachs fracture detection was 69% and 87%, respectively. We believe that MR saline arthrography is of benefit in the evaluation of the anterior labrum when unenhanced MR imaging is inconclusive, and we speculate on the role of MR arthrography as a primary investigative tool.
The results of arthroscopic debridement of glenoid labral tears based on tear location.	A retrospective, average 2-year review of 14 patients with a primary glenoid labral tear treated by arthroscopic debridement was conducted to evaluate the long-term results of labral debridement based on tear location in preoperatively stable shoulders. All patients with concomitant pathology requiring an additional open or arthroscopic procedure were eliminated from this study. Every patient complained of shoulder pain mainly with overhead activities and nine patients (64%) also described "clicking" with shoulder movement. All shoulders were stable to translation in all quadrants during the preoperative examination and examination under anesthesia. The functional results at 6 months' follow-up were 93% excellent or good. However, the results at > 1 year's follow-up (average 2 years) were only 71% excellent or good, with a statistically significant 50% of patients decreased in function. The best results were in the superior and anterior-inferior regions. Three patients with large anterior-superior lesions (60%) developed postoperative instability noted at > 6 months postsurgery, representing a significant difference between groups. One of these patients was able to regain a good functional result with rotator cuff strengthening therapy. Close observation of patients after large anterior-superior labral tear arthroscopic debridement is advised because they are at risk for the delayed onset of instability.
A technique for arthroscopic mattress suture placement.	Many techniques and instrument systems have been developed for performing arthroscopic Bankart repair and arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. These procedures often use multiple simple sutures placed in the repaired tissue. The use of a mattress suture design allows for inversion or eversion of the repaired tissue, greater repair strength, and provides a greater area of soft tissue apposition to bone. Described is a technique for arthroscopic mattress suture placement. We have used this technique primarily for arthroscopic Bankart repair and arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Suture material of any type may be used with this technique.
Experimental study of dislocations of the scapulohumeral joint]	One may produce easily an experimental dislocation (anterior or erecta) of the scapulohumeral joint. The authors discuss, the experimental model then they describe the anatomical lesion produced through the experimental dislocation of 32 shoulders and the correlation observed after RMI assessment of 24 recurrent dislocations. The tear of the inferior glenohumeral ligament is constant, in 20 per cent of the cases the tear lies on the anterior aspect of the glenoid, in the other cases the tear was found on its humeral side. Whatever the situation of the tear of the inferior glenohumeral ligament, the lesion of the labrum was constant. The erecta dislocation was produced with the same movement but with a particular tear of the glenohumeral ligament: the tear was longitudinal. The experimental dislocation needs, in 7 or 8 cases, a desinsertion of the deep aspect of the rotator cuff. The Hill Sachs lesion occurs when the humerus falls along the chest wall after the dislocation. In 50 per cent of the patients, MRI shows modifications of the cuff which are compatible with our results. Hills Sachs lesions appear to be constant after MRI examination.
Case report 815: Tear of the rotator interval.	Rotator interval tears are an uncommon, but clinically important subtype of rotator cuff tear. As MRI assumes an ever increasing role in the imaging evaluation of the painful shoulder, radiologists must be aware of this entity and appreciate the difficulty in diagnosing these tears with MRI. Differentiation of a true rotator interval tear from normal synovium and capsule in this space is most likely not possible with MRI, and symptoms may be referred and misleading. It is therefore important to correlate the MR findings with the clinical history and physical examination.
Pull-out strength of suture anchors for rotator cuff and Bankart lesion repairs.	Surgical reconstructions of anterior-inferior shoulder instabilities and rotator cuff injuries require secure fixation of soft tissue to bone. Sutures are inserted directly through transosseous tunnels in current techniques, which are surgically complex and not always adequate for fixation strength. Using fresh-frozen cadaveric human specimens, our objectives were 1) to compare immediate pull-out strength of two versions of polyacetal suture anchors (wedge and rod) with conventional suture-only attachment techniques in Bankart lesion and rotator cuff repairs, and 2) to compare pull-out strength of the two polyacetal suture anchors with a metallic suture anchor. Our results indicate no significant differences in fixation strength of Bankart lesions or rotator cuff repairs using sutures only, or using wedge or rod polyacetal suture anchors (P = 0.70). Pull-out force did not differ significantly (P = 0.37) between the two polyacetal anchors. Polyacetal anchors exhibited higher pull-out forces than metallic anchors when inserted into metaphyseal regions of the tibia and significantly higher pull-out forces (P < 0.001) when inserted into metaphyseal regions with thicker cortical walls. Our results indicate that both polyacetal suture anchors provide adequate immediate fixation for soft tissue repairs in the human shoulder.
Determination of the instantaneous center of rotation of the shoulder using the ELITE system. Application to the study of normal and pathological abduction]	The authors determined the in vivo displacement of the instantaneous center of rotation (ICR) of the shoulder from data supplied by an optoelectronic system (ELITE System) which uses a specifically designed software program to achieve 3-dimensional analysis of abduction. The study involved 10 control subjects and 20 patients suffering from a periarticular disorder of the shoulder capsule retraction in 10 cases and rotator cuff tears before and after rehabilitation in 10 cases. This method provides an objective assessment of humeral head misalignment in relation to the glenoid cavity induced by the periarticular shoulder disorder and of the realignment achieved through rehabilitation. The proposed ICR calculation technique is entirely harmless for the patient in (particular because it requires no radiation analysis).
Posterior superior impingement of the rotator cuff on the glenoid rim as a cause of shoulder pain in the overhead athlete.	A case of impingement of the deep surface of the supraspinatus tendon on the posterior superior rim of the glenoid and mild anterior laxity has been presented. The partial-thickness tear of the undersurface rotator cuff tendon, degenerative tear of the posterior superior labrum, and osteochondral impression fracture of the humeral head have been documented. The purpose of this case report is to present the pathological findings associated with posterior superior glenoid rim impingement and emphasize its role as a cause of shoulder pain in the overhead athlete. In addition it is important to stress the fact that shoulder pain in the overhead athlete may be multifactorial.
Unusual patterns of glenohumeral joint injuries in adolescent ski-jumpers.	We report on two 16.5-year-old ski-jumpers who sustained unusual glenohumeral joint injuries. The first fell on landing, the other while running out. Neither could give any indications as to the pathomechanics of the injuries, thus illustrating the high speed nature of the trauma.
Magnetic resonance in the study of the painful shoulder. The surgical comparison in 30 consecutive cases]	Eighty patients complaining of shoulder pain were examined with MRI from January, 1993, through December, 1994. Thirty of them were submitted to surgery, with an exhaustive inspection of shoulder structures and the treatment of abnormal findings. In this subgroup of surgical patients, MRI had depicted 16 complete tears of the rotator cuff, 4 partial tears, 8 cases of subacromial impingement, I humeral head osteochondritis and, finally, I humeral head osteochondritis with complete rotator cuff tear. Surgical findings confirmed MR diagnosis in 97% of cases. MR findings were then compared with literature data and some atypical features were observed in our series. MRI was totally reliable in complete cuff tears (16/30 patients), always showing the involvement of supraspinatus tendons and, in some cases, of other cuff tendons. In partial cuff tears (4/30 patients), besides the classic pattern of a fissure in the deep/superficial supraspinatus tendon, we observed intra- and peritendinous changes, with no tendon interruption, due to diffuse microlesions. When impingement due to subacromial space narrowing, with no cuff tear, was present (8/30 patients), MRI depicted different causes--e.g., acromioclavear arthrosis, coracoacromial ligament hypertrophy and posttraumatic changes. MRI showed tendinosis in all patients but overestimated it in one case where partial cuff tear was not confirmed surgically--the only false positive in our series. At surgery, all these cases were classified as stage I-II impingement (according to Neer's classification). Finally, MRI was very reliable in the study of bone conditions (osteochondritis), both isolated and associated with cuff tears. The diagnostic accuracy of MRI in the study of the painful shoulder was very high (97%), in agreement with literature data. This is very important because many different causes of shoulder conditions (abnormal tendons, bones and mechanics) may present with similar clinical symptoms. MRI appears as the only imaging method yielding complete and accurate pieces of information in the patients with a painful shoulder.
The importance of medical history taking in diagnosis of shoulder arthropathy]	The data collected at taking medical history were analyzed on the basis of clinical, radiographic and sonographic differential diagnosis in shoulder pathology. Material included 236 patients. Hedtmann and Fett classification has used. Age of the patient, duration of the condition and its relation to the trauma in a broad meaning are of paramount importance. The authors recommend sonographic examination in all cases of shoulder contusion with no bony abnormalities on radiographs and in all cases of anterior shoulder dislocation in order to assess rotator cuff condition.
Indirect MR arthrography: optimization and clinical applications.	To evaluate and optimize a method for producing magnetic resonance (MR) images similar to MR arthrograms of multiple synovial joints with intravenous gadopentetate dimeglumine injection.
Arthroscopic treatment of rotator cuff tear and greater tuberosity fracture nonunion.	The association of full-thickness rotator cuff tear combined with a nonunion of the greater tuberosity is uncommon. We present one case, describing management of both lesions using arthroscopic technique.
Value of anamnesis and clinical examination in degenerative impingement syndrome in comparison with surgical findings--a prospective study]	50 patients with a degenerative shoulder-syndrome with impingement are evaluated by questioning and 17 clinical tests. Also taking in account findings of plain x-rays they are classified preoperatively as "rotator cuff tear" or "no tear". Only 4 of the maneuvers are positive in more than 66% of cases. Jobe test and Eppendorf test are especially useful in diagnosing an impingement syndrome. A painful are is found in only 48.9%. In the rupture group 9.7 maneuvers are positive while in the non rupture group it is 7.7 in the mean (not significant). Because no significant differences are noticed between groups for any of the tests a cuff tear can not be ruled out by a single sign. The overall rate of positive tests of both authors is similar (41.1%, 45.8%) but in detail differences are found in 21.2%. Useful (significant, p < 0.05) data for diagnosing a tear are older age (56.1 years vs. 47.7 years. in the non rupture group), previous (minor) trauma and radiological findings on plain films suggesting periarticular degenerative lesions. A calcifying tendinitis is consistent with pure impingement. The correct diagnosis confirmed by operation is made in 90% (sensitivity 91.3%, specificity 88.9%). This can be achieved only by an experienced clinician who takes into account all anamnestic and clinical findings, especially details that cannot be classified as just positive or negative and thus cannot be computerized.
Shoulder complaints in family practice; a simple approach]	In two patients with shoulder complaints, a man aged 56 years and a woman aged 43, the function of the shoulder girdle (structures of the cervical spine, the upper thoracic spine and the upper ribs) played an important role. A simple classification of shoulder complaints is presented in which the influence of the shoulder girdle is recognized: (a) synovial disorder: complaints originating from the structures of the glenohumeral joint, the subacromial space, the acromioclavicular joint or combinations of these, (b) shoulder girdle disorder: the complaints are caused by functional problems in the structures of the shoulder girdle, (c) combination disorder: both a synovial disorder and a functional disorder of the structures of the shoulder girdle are causing the complaints, making it impossible to determine which structure is the primary cause. Considering the limited therapeutic choices (at first nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, followed in case of persistent complaints by injections of analgesics and corticosteroids for synovial complaints, or manipulative therapy for shoulder girdle complaints), a more detailed classification is not needed to determine a successful therapeutic strategy.
Structural changes of the rotator cuff caused by experimental subacromial impingement in the rat.	Subacromial impingement of the infraspinatus tendon was experimentally created in 28 young adult rats by thickening the undersurface of the acromion with either one or two platelike bony transplants of the ipsilateral scapular spine. Nine nonoperated and eight shoulders that had undergone a sham operation served as control groups. The rats were killed after 2 days and after 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, and 32 weeks for histologic evaluation. All rats with experimental subacromial impingement showed an infraspinatus tear on the bursal side of the tendon. An isolated tear on the articular side or within the tendon was not seen. Two plates caused larger tears than one (P = .04), and more long-standing impingement was associated with larger lesions (P = .002). Multiple chondrocytes were observed within the tendon adjacent to the bony transplants. No calcium deposits were found. In the subacromial space rapid thickening of the bursa was observed. The undersurfaces of the bony transplants showed no evidence of abrasion or remodeling caused by the tendon. The shoulders of the control groups were found intact without any alteration. Experimental subacromial impingement in the rat caused bursal side rotator cuff tears. The type of partial tears that are most frequently observed in clinical practice, that is, intratendinous and articular side tears, were not seen in this experimental model.
Spontaneous detachment of the deltoid muscle origin.	Three patients with four affected shoulders with spontaneous detachment of the deltoid origin are reported. In this group spontaneous detachment of the deltoid origin was associated with chronic massive rotator cuff defects. Detachment of the deltoid origin was associated with an acute, sudden onset of shoulder weakness. Pain was not a prominent complaint, and shoulder function was poor because of weakness. Spontaneous detachment of the deltoid origin can occur with chronic massive rotator cuff tears and can be responsible for an acute onset of shoulder weakness.
Passive tension in the supraspinatus musculotendinous unit after long-standing rupture of its tendon: a preliminary report.	Incomplete functional recovery after rotator cuff surgery can be caused by rerupture or incomplete restoration of the contractile properties of the muscle-tendon-bone unit. We measured the passive tension generated in the supraspinatus musculotendinous unit at the time of repair of the supraspinatus tendon performed for the treatment of long-standing rupture in four patients and compared our results with the values of an intact musculotendinous unit. In stepwise elongation from 10 to 20 mm, passive tension increased by a factor of 2.2 +/- 0.4 in the study group. In the control case passive tension increased by a factor of only 1.3. Mean tension in 60 degrees of abduction was 14.25 +/- 3.4 N in the four long-standing ruptures and 10 N in the control case. If the arm was brought to the side, tension rose to 25 N in the control case, whereas mean tension increased to 59.25 +/- 12.7 N in long-standing rupture of the supraspinatus muscle. Our findings demonstrate that passive tension in the supraspinatus is increased after long-standing rupture of its tendon. This result suggests that active force generation by this muscle will be compromised after surgery and that the high strain after repair may expose the musculotendinous unit to further damage.
Type II SLAP lesions: three subtypes and their relationships to superior instability and rotator cuff tears.	One hundred two type II SLAP lesions without associated anterior instability, Bankart lesion, or anterior inferior labral pathology were surgically treated under arthroscopic control. There were three distinct type II SLAP lesions based on anatomic location: anterior (37%), posterior (31%), and combined anterior and posterior (31%). Preoperatively, the Speed and O'Brien tests were useful in predicting anterior lesions, whereas the Jobe relocation test was useful in predicting posterior lesions. Rotator cuff tears were present in 31% of patients and were found to be lesion-location specific. In posterior and combined anterior-posterior lesions, a drive-through sign was always present (despite absence of anterior-inferior labral pathology or a Bankart lesion) and was eliminated by repair of the posterior component of the SLAP lesion. We conclude that SLAP lesions with a posterior component develop posterior-superior instability that manifests itself by a secondary anterior-inferior pseudolaxity (drive-through sign), and that chronic superior instability leads to secondary lesion-location-specific rotator cuff tears that begin as partial thickness tears from inside the joint.
Open acromioplasty does not prevent the progression of an impingement syndrome to a tear. Nine-year follow-up of 96 cases.	We performed open acromioplasty for intractable impingement syndrome on 96 shoulders (93 patients) with an intact rotator cuff. All the shoulders were examined by ultrasound after a mean interval of nine years. Those showing pathological findings, a poor or fair subjective result, or deterioration of the primary excellent outcome had MRI and/or arthrography. The mean Constant score for the affected shoulders was 70 points and that for 48 non-involved, symptom-free shoulders, 84 points. The subjective outcome was excellent in 45, good in 24, fair in 18 and poor in 9 shoulders. Complete tears were found in 12 shoulders and partial tears in seven. A total of 14 shoulders was symptom-free after acromioplasty, but after an average of five years became painful again and showed deterioration. Of these, six had complete tears and four partial tears of the cuff. The tear rate was 4% in shoulders initially judged to be excellent, 25% in good, 33% in fair and 55% in poor shoulders. The tear rate was 71% in shoulders which subsequently deteriorated. The incidence was higher in men (25%) than in women (11%). We conclude that a tear of the rotator cuff may appear after acromioplasty, although there was no evidence of a tear at the time of operation. This is usually the reason for deterioration in a shoulder with an initially good operative outcome.
Ultrasound and operative evaluation of arthritic shoulder joints.	To assess the diagnostic value of ultrasonography (US) in the evaluation of arthritic shoulder joints.
Glenohumeral joint: internal and external rotation range of motion in javelin throwers.	To assess differences in glenohumeral joint rotatory range of movement in javelin throwers between the throwing and non-throwing arm.
The value of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of labral lesions in patients with anterior shoulder dislocation.	To evaluate the ability of ultrasonography to detect labral lesions in patients with anterior shoulder dislocation.
Computerized tomography measurement of anteroposterior humeral dislocation. Proposing a method. Application to centered osteoarthritis]	The authors proposed a CT method to measure the humeral head subluxation in sagittal plane. They used this method to analysed the sagittal position of the humeral head, in primary gleno humeral osteoarthritis without humeral head elevation.
Specificity of the Speed's test: arthroscopic technique for evaluating the biceps tendon at the level of the bicipital groove.	A positive Speed's test result is usually thought to suggest inflammation or lesions related to the biceps/labral complex. The specificity, sensitivity, and positive and negative predictive values are determined for the Speed's test. A prospective study design was developed for all patients with shoulder pain who presented between October 1, 1994 and February 28, 1995. The clinical results of the Speed's test were correlated with biceps/labral pathology by direct arthroscopic visualization. A neuroprobe is used to pull the biceps tendon into the articular portion of the glenohumeral joint so as to visualize the biceps tendon at the level of the bicipital groove. Forty-six shoulders in 45 patients, 31 men (average age, 53 years; range, 16 to 76 years) and 14 women (average age, 64 years; range, 30 to 80 years) with 26 dominant and 20 nondominant extremities were operated on during this time interval. The clinical evaluation showed that the speed's test was positive in 40 shoulders. Biceps/labral complex pathology was present in 10 of these patients. A specificity of 13.8%, a sensitivity of 90%, a positive predictive value of 23%, and a negative predictive value of 83% were calculated. Thus, it is concluded that the Speed's test is a nonspecific but sensitive test for macroscopic biceps/labral pathology. This clinical examination is positive with a various number of other pathological shoulder problems.
SLAP lesions: a retrospective multicenter study.	A retrospective analysis of 530 glenohumeral arthroscopies performed by three independent Belgian arthroscopists revealed the presence of 32 SLAP lesions, which represents an incidence of 6%. Since this is exactly the same percentage as found by Snyder et al., we report our data in this article. We classified 23 of the SLAP lesions using Snyder's classification, 7 needed the additional classification of Maffet et al., and 2 lesions were considered to be anatomic variations; 53% of the lesions were of type II. Concerning the mechanism of injury, we found comparable percentages of traction (22%) and compression (28%) injury as reported by Snyder, but also a high number (25%) of overhead sports activities as described by Andrews et al. Associated lesions were in close accordance with Snyder's data, but a relatively low incidence of rotator cuff injuries (10%) was present. Comparison of treatment regimens showed that the same percentage of lesions (34%) was fixed arthroscopically in both series. Only SLAP II, IV, and V lesions must be considered as unstable and in need of fixation. We confirm that patients' complaints and clinical symptoms are vague and inconsistent. Imaging, using computed tomographic arthrography or magnetic resonance, was performed in a minority of cases. Advantages and pitfalls of both techniques are discussed. Anatomic variations causing an extra-large sublabral hole are shown, and we warn about potential diagnostic and therapeutic errors in these cases.
The effects of overuse combined with intrinsic or extrinsic alterations in an animal model of rotator cuff tendinosis.	An in vivo animal model was used to evaluate overuse and overuse plus intrinsic tendon injury or extrinsic tendon compression in the development of rotator cuff injury. Forty-four male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into groups of 22. Each left shoulder received an intrinsic or extrinsic injury plus overuse (treadmill running), and each right shoulder received only overuse. Eleven rats from each group were sacrificed at 4 and 8 weeks. Supraspinatus tendons were evaluated histologically or geometrically and biomechanically. Ten rats constituted a cage-activity control group. Both supraspinatus tendons of the experimental groups had increases in cellularity and collagen disorganization and changes in cell shape compared with control tendons. Tendons with injury plus overuse exhibited a worse histologic grade than those with overuse alone. The cross-sectional area of both supraspinatus tendons of the experimental rats was significantly more than in control tendons. The area of the injury plus overuse tendons was increased on average compared with overuse-alone tendons. Biomechanically, the tissue moduli of overuse/intrinsic injury tendons at 4 weeks and those of the overuse/extrinsic injury tendons at 8 weeks were significantly lower than in control tendons. Tissue moduli of the overuse/injury tendons were significantly lower than in the overuse-alone tendons at 8 weeks. This study demonstrated that damage to the supraspinatus tendon can be caused by overuse and intrinsic injury, overuse and extrinsic compression, and overuse alone.
The anterior tilt of the acromion: radiographic evaluation and correlation with shoulder diseases.	The aim of this study was to test whether the anterior tilt of the acromion can be objectively evaluated on lateral radiographs, and whether there is a relation between this anatomical feature and the most common shoulder diseases. Lateral radiographs of 15 dried scapulas were performed in neutral position and with 5 degrees of caudal, cranial, anterior and posterior angulations. Two hundred and forty-three shoulders, both asymptomatic and affected by chronic and post-traumatic impingement, calcific tendinitis and instability, were examined by conventional radiography. The presence of rotator-cuff tears was investigated by sonography. A method was elaborated to obtain reproducible lateral radiographs and to determine the acromial tilt angle. Inter- and intraobserver and inter- and intraoperator variations in measurements were evaluated. Variations in tube angulation produced changes in tilt-angle values on dried scapulas. The average tilt angle for the chronic impingement and the instability groups were significantly different from the post-traumatic, calcific tendinitis and control groups. Rotator-cuff tears were significantly more frequent in the chronic impingement group and related to a more acute tilt angle. The inter- and intraobserver variability coefficients were 0.95 and 0.98, whereas the inter- and intraoperator variability coefficients were 0.94 and 0.96, respectively. Conventional radiography using fluoroscopy for positioning is a well-reproducible method for the evaluation of acromial tilt. There is a significant difference in tilt-angle values between some groups of subjects examined, but the lack of specificity limits the clinical importance of such measurement.
Arthroscintigraphy in suspected rotator cuff rupture.	In order to evaluate the diagnostic efficiency of arthroscintigraphy in suspected rotator cuff ruptures this new imaging procedure was performed 20 times in 17 patients with clinical signs of a rotator cuff lesion. The scintigraphic results were compared with sonography (n = 20), contrast arthrography (n = 20) and arthroscopy (n = 10) of the shoulder joint.
