Angiotensin II protects cultured midbrain dopaminergic neurons against rotenone-induced cell death.	In this study, we demonstrate that angiotensin II (Ang II) protects dopamine (DA) neurons from rotenone toxicity in vitro. Primary ventral mesencephalic (VM) cultures from E15 rats were grown for 5 days and then cultured in the presence of the mitochondrial complex I inhibitor, rotenone. Acute exposure (20 h) to 20 nM rotenone reduced the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive (TH+) neurons by 50 +/- 6% when compared to untreated cultures. Pre-treatment of VM cultures with 100 nM Ang II decreased TH+ neuronal loss to 25 +/- 10% at the 20-nM rotenone concentration. Ang II in the presence of the angiotensin type 1 receptor (AT1R) antagonist, losartan, was even more effective in protecting DA neurons showing a loss of only 13 +/- 4% at 20 nM rotenone. Conversely, the AT2R antagonist, PD123319, abolished the protective effects of Ang II. Furthermore, both the NMDA receptor antagonist, MK801, and the antioxidant, alpha-tocopheryl succinate (vitamin E analogue), prevented rotenone-induced toxicity. Here, we show that acute exposure of VM cultures to the pesticide rotenone leads to dopaminergic neuronal cell death and that angiotensin acting through the AT2 receptor protects dopamine neurons from rotenone toxicity.
Synergistic anti-Parkinsonism activity of high doses of B vitamins in a chronic cellular model.	We propose that elevation of mitochondrial enzyme cofactors may prevent or ameliorate neurodegenerative diseases by improving mitochondrial function. In the present study, we investigated the effects of high doses of B vitamins, the precursors of mitochondrial enzyme cofactors, on mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and Parkinsonism in a 4-week long rotenone treatment-induced cellular model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Pretreatment with B vitamins (also 4 weeks) prevented rotenone-induced: (1) mitochondrial dysfunction, including reduced mitochondrial membrane potential and activities of complex I; (2) oxidative stress, including increase in reactive oxygen species, oxidative DNA damage and protein oxidation, and (3) Parkinsonism parameters, including accumulation of alpha-synuclein and poly-ubiquitin. The optimum doses were found around 2.5- and 5-fold of that in normal MEM medium. The 4-week pretreatment was chosen based on time-dependent experiments that pretreatments longer than 2 weeks resulted in a decrease in oxidants, an increase in oxygen consumption, and up-regulation of complex I activity and PGC-1alpha expression. Individual B vitamins at the same doses did not show a similar effect suggesting that these B vitamins work synergistically. These results suggest that administration of high doses of B vitamins sufficient to elevate mitochondrial enzyme cofactors may be effective in preventing PD by reducing oxidative stress and improving mitochondrial function.
Chrysotoxine, a novel bibenzyl compound selectively antagonizes MPP⁺, but not rotenone, neurotoxicity in dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cells.	Chrysotoxine is a naturally occurring bibenzyl compound found in medicinal Dendrobium species. We previously reported that chrysotoxine structure-specifically suppressed 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced dopaminergic cell death. Whether chrysotoxine and other structurally similar bibenzyl compounds could also inhibit the neurotoxicity of 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium (MPP(+)) and rotenone has not been investigated. We showed herein that chrysotoxine inhibited MPP(+), but not rotenone, induced dopaminergic cell death in SH-SY5Y cells. The overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitochondrial dysfunction as indexed by the decrease in membrane potential, increase in calcium concentration and NF-κB activation triggered by MPP(+) were blocked by chrysotoxine pretreatment. The imbalance between the pro-apoptotic signals (Bax, caspase-3, ERK and p38 MAPK) and the pro-survival signals (Akt/PI3K/GSK-3β) induced by MPP(+) was partially or totally rectified by chrysotoxine. The results indicated that ROS inhibition, mitochondria protection, NF-κB modulation and regulation of multiple signals determining cell survival and cell death were involved in the protective effects of chrysotoxine against MPP(+) toxicity in SH-SY5Y cells. Given the different toxic profiles of 6-OHDA and MPP(+) as compared to rotenone, our results also indicated that DAT inhibition may partially account for the neuroprotective effects of chrysotoxine.
Mangiferin antagonizes rotenone: induced apoptosis through attenuating mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress in SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells.	In the present study, using a human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH cells, we explored antioxidant, mitochondrial protective and antiapoptotic properties of mangiferin against rotenone-mediated cytotoxicity. SK-N-SH cells are divided into four experimental groups based on 3-(4,5-dimethyl2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay-untreated cells, cells incubated with rotenone (100 nM), cells treated with mangiferin (20 μg) (pretreatment 4 h before) + rotenone (100 nM) and mangiferin alone treated. 24 h after treatment with rotenone and 28 h after treatment with mangiferin, levels of ATP thiobarbituricacid reactive substances and reduced glutathione and activities of enzymatic antioxidants including superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidise were measured. Finally mitochondrial transmembrane potential and expressions of apoptotic protein were also analysed. Pre-treatment with mangiferin significantly enhanced cell viability, ameliorated decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and decreased rotenone-induced apoptosis in the cellular model of Parkinson's disease. Moreover oxidative imbalance induced by rotenone was partially rectified by mangiferin. Our results indicated that anti-apoptotic properties of this natural compound due to its antioxidant and mitochondrial protective function protect rotenone induced cytotoxicity. 
Rutin from Dendropanax morbifera Leveille protects human dopaminergic cells against rotenone induced cell injury through inhibiting JNK and p38 MAPK signaling.	Dendropanax morbifera Leveille (Araliaceae) is well known in Korean traditional medicine for a variety of diseases. Rotenone is a commonly used neurotoxin to produce in vivo and in vitro Parkinson's disease models. This study was designed to elucidate the processes underlying neuroprotection of rutin, a bioflavonoid isolated from D. morbifera Leveille in cellular models of rotenone-induced toxicity. We found that rutin significantly decreased rotenone-induced generation of reactive oxygen species levels in SH-SY5Y cells. Rutin protected the increased level of intracellular Ca(2+) and depleted level of mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm) induced by rotenone. Furthermore, it prevented the decreased ratio of Bax/Bcl-2 caused by rotenone treatment. Additionally, rutin protected SH-SY5Y cells from rotenone-induced caspase-9 and caspase-3 activation and apoptotic cell death. We also observed that rutin repressed rotenone-induced c-Jun N-terminal kinase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation. These results suggest that rutin may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases associated with oxidative stress. 
Therapeutic doses of menadione reduce the rotenone-induced inhibition of respiration and membrane potential generation in mitochondria]	Menadione restores the rotenone-inhibited respiration of diaphragm muscle pieces in approximately the same degree as the respiration of heart mitochondria, i.e., to 30-40%. The respiration of heart mitochondria induced by 2-5 microM menadione (after its inhibition by rotenone) is partly coupled with ATP synthesis whose rate is much lower than that of oxidation of NAD-dependent substrates. The effects of menadione and mitochondrial energetics inhibitors on lymphocyte respiration and rhodamine 123 fluorescence in individual lymphocytes and their suspensions were compared. Menadione (2--5 microM) increased the rotenone + oligomycin suppressed delta psi m in lymphocytes. At 5-40 microM menadione did not act as an uncoupler and had little effect on the uncoupled lymphocyte respiration. All these effects were observed at menadione concentrations close to therapeutic ones. Vicasol, a water-soluble analog of menadione, exerted a similar effect.
