Diagnosing allergies: when to test, when to refer.	Recent progress in allergy diagnosis has produced a bewildering variety of tests. These guidelines will help you sort out which ones you can perform and which are best left to a specialist.
Proposed vaccine information materials for hepatitis B, Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib), Varicella (chickenpox), and measles, mumps, rubella (MMR) vaccines--CDC. Notice with comment period.	Under the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act (42 U.S.C. section 300aa-26), CDC must develop vaccine information materials that health care providers are required to give to patients/parents prior to administration of specific vaccines. CDC seeks written comment on proposed new vaccine information materials for hepatitis B, Haemophilus influenzae type b, and Varicella vaccines, and revised vaccine information materials for measles, mumps, rubella (MMR) vaccines.
Joint and limb symptoms in children after immunisation with measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine.	To assess whether the combined measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine increases the incidence of joint and limb symptoms in young children.
Egg hypersensitivity and adverse reactions to measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine.	We evaluated the safety of the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) combination vaccine in 140 children with egg hypersensitivity. All children, regardless of vaccine skin test results or severity of egg hypersensitivity, were safely immunized with the MMR vaccine. Systemic reactions to MMR vaccine in two nonallergic children were documented, indicating that reactions unrelated to egg protein can occur. With the use of a competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, the standard MMR injection was found to contain approximately 37 pg of ovalbumin-like material. This study provides 95% confidence that at least 97.5% of egg-allergic children will tolerate MMR vaccine without significant difficulty. Skin testing was not found to be helpful in predicting an adverse reaction. We recommend that the American Academy of Pediatrics consider revising its current policy regarding skin test response to MMR vaccine and administration of MMR vaccine to egg-allergic children.
Bilateral acute profound deafness after MMR vaccination--report of a case]	In April 1989 the MMR vaccination program had started, and until October, 1989, 630,000 children received vaccination. In is, however, well known that many children developed various complication including aseptic meningitis after vaccination, and the MMR vaccination program has discontinued. This report described a case of bilateral acute profound deafness most likely due to MMR vaccination. The cause of this deafness was presumed to be mumps vaccination. The bases of the presumption are as follows: the meningitis after MMR vaccination was elicited by PCR method to be caused by mumps vaccine, and the complication of CNS after measles vaccination occurs within 14 days after injection, while the onset of vomiting and gait disturbance of the case was 24 days after vaccination.
Attitudes and knowledge among parents who do not want their children to be vaccinated against measles, mumps and rubella (MFR-vaccination)]	In a questionnaire investigation concerning attitudes to and knowledge about MFR vaccination among 81 parents who did not want their children to be vaccinated against measles, mumps and German measles, the parents could be divided into two main groups with reasons formulated in advance: 41% stated that "infectious diseases are beneficial for children" including here their somatic and mental development and the parent-child relationship. The remaining parents based their attitudes on defective knowledge about MFR vaccination, fear of side effects, erroneous contraindications and attitudes such as: the MFR diseases are not serious and vaccination may cause serious disease, does not protect effectively or lowers the resistance of the population and that economy is a poor argument in favour of vaccination. Parents who were critical about the total information concerning the MFR programme were also more critical about their general practitioner than the remaining parents. 80% stated that the MFR programme had been introduced because it involved social economy while 56% thought that health benefits were the reason. It is concluded that further well-directed information about the MFR programme is essential, if the necessary vaccine coverage is to be obtained.
Attitudes to and knowledge of contraindications against measles, mumps and rubella vaccination. (MFR-vaccination) among general practitioners]	A questionnaire investigation among general practitioners revealed that 29% of these were less positive about vaccination for measles, mumps and German measles (MFR vaccination) than for the remainder of the vaccination programme for children. Knowledge about contraindications for MFR vaccination was incomplete. Thus, only 26% of the general practitioners would advise vaccination if the parents stated that the child was hypersensitive to eggs. Only 70-80% of the general practitioners would advise vaccination if the child had cystic fibrosis, hydrocephalus, ventricle septum defect or had a cold but was apyrexial. Conversely, only 74% and 81% replied negatively to recommend vaccination if the child had had a previous anaphylactic reaction to eggs or was receiving treatment for leukemia. The replies given by the general practitioners were compared with present guidelines for contraindications to MFR vaccination and it is concluded that general practitioners should become more familiar with the knowledge about the MFR programme available at present and that further information from the official health authorities is required.
A prefecture-wide survey of mumps meningitis associated with measles, mumps and rubella vaccine.	A survey of untoward reactions, especially central nervous system reactions, after the administration of a newly introduced measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine in Gunma Prefecture, Japan, was initiated soon after 4 patients were hospitalized for aseptic meningitis. Thirty-five, 6 and 2 children developed meningitis, convulsive disorders and parotitis, respectively, within 2 months after MMR vaccination during the 8-month period extending from April to November, 1989. The time lag between MMR vaccination and meningitis ranged from 14 to 28 days in the 35 cases of meningitis. Mumps virus, isolated from the cerebrospinal fluid in 13 patients with aseptic meningitis, was characterized by determination of the nucleotide sequences of the P gene as mumps vaccine strain. The incidence of aseptic meningitis with positive mumps vaccine virus was estimated to be 0.11% (0.3% as a whole) during the 8 months from April to November and increased to 0.3% (0.7% as a whole) in September and October. We conclude that the incidence of aseptic meningitis after MMR vaccination seems to be higher than that reported previously.
Aseptic meningitis as a complication of mumps vaccination.	In 1989 a nationwide surveillance of neurologic complications after the administration of mumps vaccine was conducted in Japan, based on the notification of cases and the testing of mumps viruses isolated from cerebrospinal fluid for their relatedness to the vaccine by nucleotide sequence analysis. Among 630,157 recipients of measles-mumps-rubella trivalent (MMR) vaccine containing the Urabe Am9 mumps vaccine, there were at least 311 meningitis cases suspected to be vaccine-related. In 96 of these 311 cases, mumps virus related to the vaccine was isolated from cerebrospinal fluid. The unusually high incidence may have been partly a result of the adverse media publicity of the problem at the time of surveillance. We analyzed clinical features of 165 and 27 laboratory-confirmed mumps vaccine-related meningitis cases that occurred among the recipients of MMR and monovalent mumps vaccines, respectively, during a 1-year period after the introduction of MMR vaccine. The incidence of vaccine-related meningitis was similar among the recipients of MMR and monovalent Urabe Am9 mumps vaccines. Meningitis was generally mild and there were no sequelae from the illness. The complication was more frequent among male than among female children.
Immunization of children infected with HIV: a public health perspective.	The vast majority of HIV infected children in the United States are from inner city families where one or both parents have used intravenous drugs. The bulk of medical opinion indicates that in most cases these children, when they appear well, should receive their routine childhood immunizations. For children who are known to be antibody positive, or where it is known that a family member has HIV related immunodeficiency, IPV should be substituted for OPV. Measles vaccine should be given at 15 months when the child is manifesting no overt symptoms of immunodeficiency. In outbreak periods and in endemic areas measles vaccine should be given regardless of symptomatology. HIV antibody testing prior to the routine immunization of children at risk is not indicated for two reasons. First, the test is not a reliable indication of infection in the child, as passive maternal antibody may persist up to 15 months of age and cannot at this time be distinguished from the child's own antibody. Second, immunization with OPV and MMR have not yet been noted to cause adverse effects in HIV infected individuals and may be efficacious at least in the younger child who may be early in the course of disease and maintain some T and B cell function.
Serological evaluation of a measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine.	Combined measles, mumps, and rubella vaccination is soon to become available in Britain in the routine immunisation programme. A controlled study was performed in 319 children, aged 13 months, to assess the antibody response and clinical reactions to a new combined measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine in comparison with a single component measles vaccine. In the children who received the combined vaccine, seroconversion was established in 93% for measles, 99% for rubella, and 100% for mumps. In the children who received the single measles vaccine, seroconversion was established in 92% for measles and in none for rubella and mumps. There was no increase in clinical reactions after the measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine compared with the measles vaccine. These results suggest that this combined vaccine would be effective and safe in a British population and give further support for the introduction of the combined measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine to Britain.
Adverse effects of immunization. Is prevention possible?	Vaccination rates must be kept high to prevent epidemics of infectious disease. At the same time, parents must be informed of the rare possibility of serious adverse effects, including seizure and allergic reaction. Every physician who administers vaccine therefore needs to become familiar with the reactions that may occur with each immunologic agent used. The best safeguard against litigation, when and if a serious reaction follows vaccination, is the indication that these considerations were discussed and that an informed choice was made.
Combination measles, mumps, rubella and varicella vaccine.	A comparative clinical trial was conducted in 15- to 17-month-old healthy children to compare an investigational combination measles, mumps, rubella, varicella (MMRV) vaccine v standard measles, mumps, rubella vaccine followed 6 weeks later with the varicella (MMR + V) vaccine. Both the MMRV and MMR + V vaccine schedules stimulated virtually 100% seroconversion for all component viruses. Mean antibody titers were similar for each virus component in the two vaccine groups. Clinical reactivity postimmunization was also similar with 25% to 29% morbilliform rashes, 12% to 25% mild papulovesicular (varicella) rashes, and 12.5% to 18% temperature elevations above 38.3 degrees C (101 degrees F). Antibodies to measles, mumps, and rubella viruses were persistent at 1 year of follow-up in both groups. Varicella antibody was persistent in 8/10 originally seronegative MMRV vaccinees and 5/5 MMR + V vaccine recipients tested. One MMRV vaccine recipient had a household exposure to chickenpox during the year postvaccination that resulted in a subclinical boost in varicella antibody titer. Two children in the MMR + V vaccine group had close varicella exposures; mild varicella (20 lesions) developed in one. There were no known exposures to natural measles, mumps, or rubella. Three of four MMRV vaccinees with low titer antibody to varicella prior to immunization had greater than fourfold increases in antibodies after vaccination. The combination MMRV vaccine is an immunogenic, safe, and cost-effective approach to varicella immunization of healthy children. Continued work is needed to select the appropriate dose of varicella component, to assure higher persistence rate of varicella antibody.
Transmission of rubella vaccine virus from vaccinees to contacts.	The report presents evidence of the transmission of hpv-77 derived rubella vaccine virus from vaccinees to two susceptible contacts. The first instance of transmission was to a child who served as a transmission control on a "closed" study ward, and the second was to an antibody-negative mother in an "open" family study. Neither of these persons had any clinical evidence of rubella. Both had significant increases in rubella hemagglutination inhibiting (hai) antibody titers, but detectable complement fixing (cf) antibodies did not develop in either. With the kind of antigen used in our rubella cf test, this pattern of serologic response is characteristic of, but not diagnostic of, infection with the rubella vaccine virus. The serological evidence which was compatible with rubella vaccine virus infection, the complete absence of serologic or clinical evidence of "wild" rubella virus infections among the other four rubella susceptible transmission control children and the security precautions employed to ensure isolation on the "closed" ward, make "wild" rubella virus infection extremely unlikely. The evidence for rubella vaccine virus infection in the other susceptible contact is not as conclusive, because "wild" rubella virus infection is difficult to rule out in any person living in an "open" family situation. Nevertheless the need for more data is emphasized by the virtual certainty that rubella vaccine virus transmission did occur in the subject on the isolation ward, plus the high probability that the infection observed in the family group setting also represented transmission of rubella vaccine virus. Such data can only come from close surveillance of recipients of live rubella virus vaccines and their contacts in the future.
Persistent rubella infection and rubella-associated arthritis.	Rubella virus has been isolated from peripheral blood lymphocytes in six out of seven women with rubella-associated arthritis. The arthritis occurred after natural infection (one case) or immunisation with HPV 77 DES vaccine (six cases) and had been present for up to 6 years. The identification of rubella virus was confirmed by plaque/microfocus reduction in the presence of anti-rubella antiserum, and by immunoprecipitation of rubella virus antigens and their analysis on polyacrylamide gels. These women with rubella virus in their lymphocytes did not have abnormal serum antibody levels, but a standard lymphoproliferative assay showed that they had strong cell-mediated immune responses to rubella virus antigens.
Arthritis following rubella immunization]	Arthritis following rubella immunization is a scarcely known complication. It runs the same benign course as in rubella infection, but prolonged arthralgia can be observed. A typical case is reported.
RA27/3 rubella vaccine. A four-year follow-up.	RA27/3 rubella vaccine was given to 418 subjects aged 1 to 17 years in 1974, 201 of whom participated in a four-year follow-up study. Two vaccine-associated complications were reported. A 5-year-old boy had transient arthritis of the hip, and a 1-year-old boy had a pigmented macule at the inoculation site. Rubella reinfection was uncommon, occurring at most in three of our subjects. All of the 186 susceptible children seroconverted, and 182 had hemagglutination-inhibiting (HI) titers of 8 or greater at four-year follow-up (geometric mean titer, 30.3). In the four children whose HI titers declined to undetectable levels, both HI and neutralizing (Nt) antibodies had developed immediately postimmunization, and two had Nt titers at follow-up despite loss of HI antibodies. RA27/3 vaccine boosted HI titers in 15 seropositive subjects, but titers returned to preimmunization levels four years later. We concluded that RA27/3 vaccine produced durable immunity with very low rates of rubella reinfection and secondary vaccine failure during the four years since immunization.
Cell-mediated immune responses in patients with recurrent arthritis following rubella immunization.	Six young adult women with recurrent rubella arthritis after HPV-77 DE/5 rubella immunization were studied. Lymphocyte responses to rubella and mumps antigens, and phytohemogglutinin and pokeweed mitogens, were measured in these patients and in 20 immunized hospital employees who did not develop arthritis. All 6 arthritic subjects had pre-immunization hemagglutination inhibition titers of less than 1:8 and their lymphocyte responses to rubella antigen were significantly elevated when compared with those members of the control group with a similar pre-immunization titer of less than 1:8. No significant differences between the 2 groups were found in the other lymphocyte responses.
Arthritis related to rubella: a complication of natural rubella and rubella immunization.	The success of the childhood rubella immunization program has caused an upward shift in age of those susceptible to rubella. An associated increase has taken place in the incidence of rubella-related arthritis, which occurs more often in the post-pubertal population. Fortunately, however, the arthralgia-arthritis syndromes of naturally acquired rubella and those associated with vaccination are usually transient and mild.
Reye syndrome associated with vaccination with live virus vaccines. An exploration of possible etiologic relationships.	To determine whether vaccination with live virus vaccines may be etiologically related to Reye syndrome, we examined 404 cases reported to the Center for Disease Control. Fifteen of 269 children with Reye syndrome has been inoculated with live virus vaccines within 30 days before onset of illness. Although this temporal relationship may have occurred by chance, seasonal distribution and clustering of incubation periods suggests that live virus vaccines may occasionally serve as cofactors in the etiology of Reye syndrome through undefined mechanisms.
Reports of sensorineural deafness after measles, mumps, and rubella immunisation.	There have been nine reports of sensorineural hearing loss after measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) immunisation. In three cases the deafness was unrelated to MMR immunisation. In six cases the cause was unknown and MMR remained a possible aetiology. Any risk associated with attenuated viruses must be weighed against the risks of the natural diseases.
Adverse events associated with childhood vaccines other than pertussis and rubella. Summary of a report from the Institute of Medicine.	In September 1993, the Institute of Medicine released a report entitled Adverse Events Associated With Childhood Vaccines: Evidence Bearing on Causality. The report examined putative serious adverse consequences associated with administration of diphtheria and tetanus toxoids; measles, mumps, and measles-mumps-rubella vaccines; oral polio vaccine and inactivated polio vaccine; hepatitis B vaccines; and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) vaccines. The committee spent 18 months reviewing all available scientific and medical data, from individual case reports (published and unpublished) to controlled clinical trials. The committee found that the evidence favored the rejection of a causal relation between diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and encephalopathy, infantile spasms, and sudden infant death syndrome, and between conjugate Hib vaccines and susceptibility to Hib disease. The committee found that the evidence favored acceptance of a causal relation between diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and Guillain-Barré syndrome and brachial neuritis, between measles vaccine and anaphylaxis, between oral polio vaccine and Guillain-Barré syndrome, and between unconjugated Hib vaccine and susceptibility to Hib disease. The committee found that the evidence established causality between diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and anaphylaxis, between measles vaccine and death from measles vaccine-strain viral infection, between measles-mumps-rubella vaccine and thrombocytopenia and anaphylaxis, between oral polio vaccine and poliomyelitis and death from polio vaccine-strain viral infection, and between hepatitis B vaccine and anaphylaxis. For five vaccine-related adverse events, there was no evidence identified. For the remaining 33 vaccine-related adverse events, the evidence was inadequate to accept or reject a causal relation.
Decline of mumps antibodies in type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetic children and a plateau in the rising incidence of type 1 diabetes after introduction of the mumps-measles-rubella vaccine in Finland. Childhood Diabetes in Finland Study Group.	A nationwide mumps-measles-rubella vaccination was introduced in 1982 in Finland to children aged 1.5 to 6 years and since then mumps has virtually disappeared in the country. We investigated whether this rapid epidemiological change had any impact on antibody activity against mumps virus in Type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetic children or on the incidence of Type 1 diabetes in Finland. Two case-control series were collected before (series I and II) and three series after (series III-V) the introduction of the vaccination. IgA class mumps antibody levels were significantly higher in Type 1 diabetic children than in matched control children in the first two but not in the three later series. IgG class antibody levels were similar in patients and control subjects in the first two series but significantly lower in patients than in control subjects in the three later series. The overall incidence of Type 1 diabetes in 0-14-year-old children increased until 1987 but remained about the same during 1988-1990. In 5-9-year-old children no further increase in Type 1 diabetes was seen since 1985, whereas in 0-4-year-old children the incidence continued to rise until 1990. The results suggest that the elimination of natural mumps by mumps-measles-rubella vaccination may have decreased the risk for Type 1 diabetes in Finland; a possible causal relationship is substantiated by the observed concomitant decrease in mumps antibody levels in diabetic children. However, further studies are required to determine if the vaccine virus, like natural mumps, could trigger the clinical onset of Type 1 diabetes in young children.
Thrombocytopenic purpura after measles, mumps and rubella vaccination: a retrospective survey by the French regional pharmacovigilance centres and pasteur-mérieux sérums et vaccins.	Thrombocytopenic purpura (TP) after vaccination with measles, mumps and rubella has occasionally been reported.
