Cross-desensitization to furosemide and salbutamol in isolated neonatal guinea pig airways.	Airway hyperresponsiveness in neonatal chronic lung disease is treated with both furosemide, a diurectic that inhibits the Na-K-2Cl cotrasporter, and salbutamol, a beta2-adrenoceptor agonist. Tachyphylaxis to both drugs in vitro has been described. This study was conducted to determine if the relaxation response in newborn guinea pig airways to furosemide and salbutamol can be cross-desensitized in vitro. Tracheal ring segments from 4- to 7-day-old guinea pigs were suspended in HEPES buffer for measurement of isometric tension. Segments were pre-treated with either furosemide (300 microM, 1 h) or salbutamol (10 microM, 30 min). After constriction with 3 microM acetylcholine, relaxation response to salbutamol or furosemide, respectively, was measured. Pretreatment with furosemide diminished relaxation response to salbutamol [87 +/- 3% (n = 11) vs. 117 +/- 8% (n = 10), p < 0.05], as compared to saline-treated controls. In addition, pretreatment with salbutamol diminished relaxation response to furosemide [53 +/- 2% (n = 11) vs. saline-treated (83 +/- 7%, n = 7, p < 0.05) and DMSO-treated controls (69 +/- 5%, n = 5, p < 0.05)]. Measurements of 86Rb uptake, cyclic AMP levels and responses in the presence of charybdotoxin make it unlikely that Na-K-2Cl cotransporter activity, stimulation of cAMP, or opening of maxi-K+ channels are mechanisms involved in the cross-desensitization to furosemide and salbutamol in vitro.
Leukotriene D4 (LTD4) activates charybdotoxin-sensitive and -insensitive K+ channels in ehrlich ascites tumor cells.	The putative role for ATP, UTP, bradykinin and leukotriene D4 (LTD4) in the activation of the charybdotoxin-insensitive, volume-activated K+ leak pathway has been assessed in Ehrlich cells. K+ channel activity is evaluated from bumetanide-insensitive 86Rb+ efflux using Rb+ as a tracer for K+. Addition of the Ca2+-mobilizing agonists bradykinin, ATP, UTP or LTD4 accelerates the regulatory volume decrease (RVD) response and activates a fast bumetanide-insensitive, charybdotoxin-sensitive efflux of K+. In addition LTD4 activates a charybdotoxin-insensitive K+ efflux, whereas bradykinin, ATP and UTP do not. The charybdotoxin-insensitive K+ efflux dominates after addition of LTD4 at concentrations too low to elicit an increase in [Ca2+]i but still high enough to be effective in accelerating the RVD response. The EC50 values for LTD4-induced K+ effluxes are estimated at 2 nM and 15 nM for the charybdotoxin-insensitive and charybdotoxin-sensitive components, respectively. The LTD4 (cysLT1) receptor antagonist L660,711(MK-571) blocks the activation of the charybdotoxin-sensitive but not the charybdotoxin-insensitive K+ efflux. Thus, LTD4 activates two different K+ leak pathways in Ehrlich cells, one pathway activated by an increase in [Ca2+]i and the other via an alternative signalling pathway. LTD4 is thus a potential candidate for an autocrine messenger activating the Ca2+-independent, charybdotoxin-insensitive K+ channel during the RVD response in Ehrlich cells.
RNA from heart of young and old rats leads to the expression of protein(s) in Xenopus oocytes that alter the transport activity of rat Na+,K+-ATPases differently.	To address the question of whether the function of Na+,K+-ATPases differs in the heart of young and old rats, enzymes formed from the alpha1 or alpha2 isoform with the beta1 subunit of rat were expressed in Xenopus oocytes. In addition to injections of the cRNA coding for the respective subunits, oocytes were co-injected with total RNA from the left ventricle of young or old rats. To assess alterations in transport activity due to the co-injections, ouabain-sensitive 86Rb+ uptake was measured. Co-injection of the RNA from young rats led to 31% inhibition of 86Rb+ uptake into oocytes with the alpha1/beta1 pumps while uptake into oocytes with the alpha2/beta1 pumps was hardly affected. Co-injection of the RNA from old rats, on the other hand, reduced 86Rb+ uptake only in cells with the alpha2/beta1 isoform (to 85%). The steady-state current generated in the absence of external Na+ by the alpha1/beta1 ATPase was significantly reduced by co-injection of RNA only from young rats to 70%, and this inhibition was hardly affected by membrane potential. For the alpha2/beta1 ATPase co-injection of RNA only from old rats also led to a significant reduction of pump-mediated current at potentials more negative than -70 mV to 70-80%. In the presence of Na+, inhibition of the alpha1 isoform by co-injection of RNA from young rats is voltage-dependent, increasing with more negative potentials. For the alpha2/beta1 pump, co-injection of RNA from old rats was no longer effective, but voltage-dependent inhibition by co-injection of RNA from young rats became apparent. The data indicate that changes in protein expression occurring in young and old rat hearts may modulate transport activity of the Na+,K+-ATPase and this modulation depends on membrane potential and the presence of external Na+. We propose that the described mechanisms may play a functional role in working myocardium, and may form a basis for processes involved in heart aging.
Expression and role of sodium, potassium, chloride cotransport (NKCC1) in mouse inner medullary collecting duct (mIMCD-K2) epithelial cells.	Loop-diuretic-sensitive 86Rb+(K+) transmembrane fluxes were determined in cells of a mouse inner medullary collecting duct cell line (mIMCD-K2). The furosemide-sensitive (0.1 mM) influx was a substantial fraction of the total influx (0.39+/-0.04 or 0.42+/-0.03, n=5 in the presence or absence of ouabain, respectively). Furosemide also reduced 86Rb+(K+) efflux by a similar fraction (0.46). RT-PCR analysis revealed expression of mRNA for the Na+-K+-2Cl- cortransporter-1 (NKCC1), but not NKCC2. Loop-diuretic-sensitive 86Rb+(K+) influx was confined to the basolateral membrane, confirming its localisation there. The physiological properties of NKCC1 expressed in mIMCD-K2 cells, including the dependence upon medium Na+, K+ and Cl- and the relative sensitivity to loop diuretics as assessed by the concentration required for half-maximal inhibition (IC50) (bumetanide 3.3+/-1.4x10-7 M>piretanide 2.5+/-0.15x10-6 M>furosemide 2.3+/-1.2x10-5 M) were typical for NKCC1. Possible functions of NKCC1 were tested; furosemide did not inhibit the majority of forskolin-stimulated secretory short-circuit current (Isc) (83.5+/-5.3% of the maintained response at 5 min). Secondly, total 86Rb+(K+) influx was stimulated markedly when external osmolarity was increased to 600 mosmol/l by mannitol due to an increase via NKCC1 from 55+/-11 to 191+/-2 nmol/106 cells per 15 min, (both n=4, P<0.01). In contrast, 10-5 M forskolin did not stimulate total 86Rb+(K+) influx. Finally, the ability of both K+ and NH4+ to compete for ouabain-insensitive 86Rb+(K+) influx via NKCC1 was confirmed with similar concentrations for half-maximal influx reduction (K0.5). Apical exposure to NH4+ elicited rapid cytosolic alkalinisation in 2',7'-bis(carboxyethyl)-5(6)-carboxyfluorescein (BCECF)-loaded epithelial layers, consistent with selective permeability of the apical membrane to NH3. Conversely, NH4+ (5 mM) at the basal cell surface resulted in progressive acidification, the initial rate being reduced by 43% by furosemide. We conclude that NKCC1 participates in selective uptake of NH4+ at the basal surface, and that IMCD may function in direct NH4+ deposition to urine.
Nicotinic activation of mesolimbic neurons assessed by rubidium efflux in rat accumbens and ventral tegmentum.	Dopaminergic mesolimbic neurons, with cell bodies in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) projecting to the nucleus accumbens (NAc), have been shown to be involved in the development of drug dependence. The application of nicotine to either the VTA or NAc produces an increase in dopamine release; however, the positive reinforcement produced by the systemic injection of nicotine is primarily due to stimulation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in the VTA. Because the brain levels of nicotine would likely be the same in both brain areas, the nAChRs in the NAc may be less sensitive than those in the VTA. This study was undertaken to make a direct comparison of the native nAChRs in intact slices of NAc and VTA by measuring nicotine-stimulated efflux of (86)Rb(+) in a superfusion assay. The potency of nicotine and several other agonists was similar in both brain areas, but nicotine was somewhat more efficacious in the NAc. The effects of treatment duration, calcium and nicotinic antagonists were also determined. The results suggest that the predominant effect of nicotine in the VTA following systemic administration is due to differences in neuronal circuitry or firing patterns rather than inherent differences in the two nAChR populations.
Functional characterization of mouse alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors stably expressed in HEK293T cells.	Mouse alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAchRs) were stably expressed in HEK293T cells. The function of this stable cell line, termed mmalpha4beta2, was assessed using an aequorin-based luminescence method that measures agonist-evoked changes in intracellular calcium. Agonist-elicited changes in intracellular calcium were due primarily to direct entry of calcium through the alpha4beta2 channel, although release of calcium from intracellular stores contributed approximately 28% of the agonist-evoked response. Agonist pharmacologies were very similar between the mmalpha4beta2 cells and most cell lines that stably express human alpha4beta2 nAchRs. Based on agonist profiles and sensitivity to the antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE), the predominant alpha4beta2 nAchR expressed in the mmalpha4beta2 cells exhibits a pharmacology that most resembles the DHbetaE-sensitive component of 86Rb+ efflux from mouse brain synaptosomes. However, when evaluated with the aequorin assay, the mmalpha4beta2 nAchR was found to be atypically sensitive to blockade by the presumed alpha7-selective antagonist methyllycaconitine (MLA), exhibiting an IC50 value of 31 +/- 0.1 nm. Similar IC50 values have been reported for the MLA inhibition of nicotine-stimulated dopamine release, a response that is mediated by beta2-subunit-containing nAchRs and not alpha7-subunit-containing nAchRs. Consequently, at low nanomolar concentrations, MLA may not be as selective for alpha7-containing nAchRs as previously thought.
Mucosal ouabain and Na+ inhibit active Rb+(K+) absorption in normal and sodium-depleted rat distal colon.	To determine the effect of mucosal sodium and mucosal ouabain on active Rb+(K+) absorption, unidirectional and net 86Rb+ fluxes were measured under voltage-clamp conditions in the distal colon of normal and sodium-depleted rats. The role of mucosal sodium (independent of serosal sodium) was evaluated in a model of Rb+(K+) absorption in which serosal ouabain markedly enhanced active Rb+(K+) absorption. In normal rats, mucosal sodium was a competitive inhibitor of Rb+(K+) absorption, and Rb+(K+) absorption consisted of a mucosal sodium-sensitive component and a mucosal sodium-insensitive component. Further, mucosal ouabain almost completely inhibited the mucosal sodium-insensitive component but did not affect the mucosal sodium-sensitive component. In sodium-depleted rats, both mucosal sodium-sensitive and mucosal sodium-insensitive fractions of Rb+(K+) absorption were also identified. Aldosterone markedly stimulated the mucosal sodium-sensitive component (1.68 +/- 0.15 vs. 0.60 +/- 0.10 muEq.h-1.cm-2) but not the sodium-insensitive component (0.88 +/- 0.09 vs. 0.64 +/- 0.06 muEq.h-1.cm-2) component of Rb+(K+) absorption; however, in contrast to normal animals, mucosal sodium in sodium-depleted animals was a noncompetitive inhibitor of Rb+(K+) absorption. The mucosal sodium-insensitive component of Rb+(K+) absorption in sodium-depleted animals was substantially inhibited by mucosal ouabain, but the mucosal sodium-sensitive component, unlike that in normal animals, was partially inhibited by mucosal ouabain. These studies indicate that the characteristics of the Rb+(K+) absorptive process in sodium-depleted animals differ significantly from those present in normal animals, suggesting that aldosterone induces an Rb+(K+) absorptive mechanism not present in normal animals.
Sodium-dependent potassium (86Rb+) efflux moderates volume regulation by cells in rat renal inner medullary slices exposed to strongly hyperosmotic media.	The possibility has been examined that Na(+)-dependent K(+)-conductive pathways, known to exist in certain excitable cell membranes and inhibitable by the drug R56865, may also be present in cells of rat renal inner medulla, and that their activation may explain aspects of volume regulation by these cells in tissue slices exposed to strongly hyperosmotic media, as reflected by the rate of efflux of preloaded 86Rb+ (a marker for K+) and steady-state cell volumes and K+ contents. Cells incubated in media of 2000 mosmol/kg (400 mM Na+, 1172 mM urea) shrink and lose K+ by comparison with those in 720 mosmol/kg (203 mM Na+, 266 mM urea). If 2-aminisobutyric acid (10 mM) is added there is partial restoration of cell volume due to inwardly directed Na(+)-amino acid cotransport, but 86Rb+ efflux is accelerated and cells fail to regain net K+. R56865 (5 microM) completely blocks the increase in efflux and causes marked increases in cell volume and K+ contents, but only in strongly hyperosmotic media and in the presence of both Na+ and amino acid. In mildly hyperosmotic media, or media of 2000 mosmol/kg from which Na+ or amino acid is omitted, R56865 is without effect on these variables.
Cationic and secretory effects of glimepiride and glibenclamide in perifused rat islets.	The effects of glimepiride and glibenclamide upon 86Rb outflow, 45Ca outflow and insulin release were examined in rat islets perifused at low (zero to 2.8 mM) or close-to-normal (8.3 mM) D-glucose concentrations. At the low hexose concentrations, a marked and not reversible decrease in 86Rb outflow contrasted with a rapid and reversible increase in 45Ca outflow. The latter increase was abolished in the absence of extracellular Ca2+, and was not associated with any pronounced stimulation of insulin release. Inversely, in the presence of 8.3 mM D-glucose, a comparable increase in 45Ca efflux now coincided with an increase in 86Rb efflux and a marked and not reversible stimulation of insulin release. Whether in terms of the time course or glucose dependency of the cationic and secretory responses, a coupled increase in both 40Ca inflow and 45Ca outflow thus coincided with either negative or positive changes in 86Rb outflow and either minimal or marked changes in insulin output. Such dissociated behaviours suggest that the insulinotropic action of hypoglycemic sulfonylureas is not necessarily attributable solely to a primary decrease in K+ conductance.
Opposite effects of D-fructose on total versus cytosolic ATP/ADP ratio in pancreatic islet cells.	D-fructose (10 mM) augments, in rat pancreatic islets, insulin release evoked by 10 mM D-glucose. Even in the absence of D-glucose, D-fructose (100 mM) displays a positive insulinotropic action. It was now examined whether the insulinotropic action of D-fructose could be attributed to an increase in the ATP content of islet cells. After 30-60 min incubation in the presence of D-glucose and/or D-fructose, the ATP and ADP content was measured by bioluminescence in either rat isolated pancreatic islets (total ATP and ADP) or the supernatant of dispersed rat pancreatic islet cells exposed for 30 s to digitonine (cytosolic ATP and ADP). D-fructose (10 and 100 mM) was found to cause a concentration-related decrease in the total ATP and ADP content and ATP/ADP ratio below the basal values found in islets deprived of exogenous nutrient. Moreover, in the presence of 10 mM D-glucose, which augmented both the total ATP content and ATP/ADP ratio above basal value, D-fructose (10 mM) also lowered these two parameters. The cytosolic ATP/ADP ratio, however, was increased in the presence of D-glucose and/or D-fructose. Under the present experimental conditions, a sigmoidal relationship was found between such a cytosolic ATP/ADP ratio and either (86)Rb net uptake by dispersed islet cells or insulin release from isolated islets. These data provide, to our knowledge, the first example of a dramatic dissociation between changes in total ATP content or ATP/ADP ratio and insulin release in pancreatic islets exposed to a nutrient secretagogue. Nevertheless, the cationic and insulinotropic actions of d-glucose and/or d-fructose were tightly related to the cytosolic ATP/ADP ratio.
A radioactive uptake assay to measure ion transport across ion channel-containing liposomes.	Here we describe a procedure for incorporating ion channels into lipid vesicles (liposomes) and functional characterization of the channel population by assaying radioactive isotope uptake into these proteoliposomes. The technique as described will work only for potassium channels but can be easily modified, as suggested in the text, for other ion channels and transporters. Purified ion channel proteins in detergent micelles are combined with solubilized lipids. Detergent is subsequently removed from protein-lipid complexes by gel filtration or dialysis into high potassium (high [K+]) buffer. After freezing-thawing and sonication, the resultant larger liposomes are passed over another gel-filtration column to exchange an extraliposomal high [K+] to a low [K+] buffer, thus establishing a large K+ gradient across the liposomal membrane. Trace 86Rb is then added to the extraliposomal space and the reaction begins. If the ion channel is permeable to K+, the K+ inside exits the liposomes down its concentration gradient and the 86Rb outside accumulates in the intraliposomal space until equilibrium is reached. The reaction time course is monitored by measurement of accumulated 86Rb after removal of external 86Rb over an ion-exchange column. The 86Rb flux assay takes 2-5 hours depending on the reaction rate and the number of desired time points.
Early morphological detection of estramustine cytotoxicity measured as alteration in cell size and shape by a new technique of microperifusion.	The present study describes a new microscopic perifusion technique for detecting momentary alterations in cell volume and shape. The method has been applied for evaluating early signs of cytotoxicity following chemotherapeutic treatments. The effects of estramustine phosphate (EMP) have been evaluated. EMP is a complex between oestradiol-17 beta and the alkylating agent nor-nitrogen mustard and has recently demonstrated a marked cytotoxicity against malignant glioma cells. The results showed a concentration-dependent increase in cell size and a concomitant decrease in shape factor following EMP-treatment of glioma cells. These changes correlated with cytotoxicity evaluated as cell proliferation and cell membrane alterations shown by 86Rb fluxes and ultrastructural visible membrane damage. The colon cancer line HT-29 displayed no reactions at all following EMP treatment. It is suggested that acute alterations in cell morphology and shape display a strong correlation to the cytotoxicity of EMP encountered by traditional cell culture systems. The findings are discussed with respect to cell membrane disturbances caused by EMP and its potential role as an early test of cytotoxicity.
Binding properties and biological effects of oxidized-ouabain on cultured neonatal-rat cardiac myocytes. Implications on the mechanism of action of the digitalis-glycosides.	Mild oxidation of ouabain with NaIO4, causes the cleavage of the bond between C2' and C3' of the rhamnose ring, leaving the steroid moiety intact. The oxidized ouabain (ox-ouabain) was examined on spontaneously contracting cultured rat-cardiac myocytes. Two classes of binding sites, with high and low affinities, were detected for both ox-ouabain and unmodified ouabain. The dissociation constants (KD) were found to be similar for both compounds, but the rate constants of association (ka) and dissociation (kd) of the low affinity sites were higher for ox-ouabain as compared with ouabain. Displacement experiments showed that ox-ouabain and ouabain bind to the same sites. The effects of ox-ouabain and ouabain on the activity of Na+, K(+)-ATPase were determined in microsomal preparations. Similar dose-response curves for the inhibition of the enzyme activity were determined for both drugs. Inhibition was observed only at concentrations above 10(-6) M. The biological effects of the drugs were examined by their capacity to induce positive inotropic or toxic effects. Concentrations of ox-ouabain which induced positive inotropic effects (increase in amplitude of systolic cell motion), ranged from 5 x 10(-8) M to 5 x 10(-6) M, as compared with 10(-7) M to 5 x 10(-7) M with ouabain. "Toxic" effects (decrease in the amplitude of systolic motion, increased beating frequencies and elevation in the position of maximal relaxation) was observed only with 10(-5) M ox-ouabain as compared with 10(-6) M ouabain. The mechanism of the inotropic action of ox-ouabain at the lower concentration range was investigated by measuring the effect of the drugs on 86Rb+ (analogue of K+) influx. Dose-response curves of effects of ouabain and ox-ouabain on 86Rb+ influx were bi-phasic. At low concentrations stimulation was observed, whereas at high concentrations 86Rb+ influx was inhibited. Ox-ouabain stimulated 86Rb+ influx by lower concentrations and to a greater extent than ouabain. A part of 86Rb+ influx into cardiac myocytes is mediated by the K+/Na+/Cl- cotransporter, which can be inhibited by loop diuretic drugs such as bumetanide. We have previously shown that ouabain, at low concentrations, stimulates the activity of the cotransporter. It is shown in the present work that ox-ouabain stimulates the activity of the cotransporter by lower concentrations and to a greater extent than ouabain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of the putative potassium channel activator WAY-120,491 on 86Rb efflux from the rabbit aorta.	WAY-120,491 [(-)-(3S-trans)-2-[3,4-dihydro-3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl-6-(trifluoromet hox y)- 2H-1-benzopyran-4-yl]-2,3-dihydro-1H-isoindol-1-one] is a novel antihypertensive agent. We have investigated the effects of this compound on contractile force and 86Rb efflux, using the rabbit aorta, in order to assess its K channel activator properties. K channel blockers and ionic conditions thought to modulate specific K channel types have been used to provide insight into the K channel(s) affected by this compound. WAY-120,491 evoked relaxation of precontracted rabbit aortic rings and increased the rate of 86Rb efflux from strips of rabbit aorta; both effects occurring in a concentration-dependent manner. The WAY-120,491 (1 microM)-induced 86Rb efflux was inhibited by tetraethylammonium (IC50 = 0.38 mM), indicating that the increased efflux was mediated by K channels. Glyburide completely blocked the WAY-120,491 (1 microM)-evoked 86Rb efflux with 50% block occurring at a concentration of 0.48 microM. Glyburide also antagonized the WAY-120,491-induced relaxation of aortic rings. Omission of Ca from the solution bathing the aorta did not inhibit the WAY-120,491 induced 86Rb efflux but rather caused an augmentation of the response. It is concluded that WAY-120,491 may be classified as a K channel opener. Furthermore, the K channel upon which WAY-120,491 acts exhibits some characteristics normally associated with the ATP regulated K channel although the involvement of other K channel types has not been ruled out.
Comparison of rates of cation release and of conformational change in dog kidney Na, K-ATPase.	1. It is now widely believed that the main rate-limiting step in the sodium-potassium pump (Na, K-ATPase) cycle is a conformational change between two forms of the dephosphoenzyme (E2 and E1) and that this change releases to the cell interior potassium ions occluded within the E2 form. 2. If this hypothesis is correct, and if occluded ions cannot be released directly from dephosphoenzyme in the E2 conformation, we should expect that, under any given conditions, the rate of release of the occluded ions would be identical with the rate of the conformational change. 3. Using the potassium congeners 86Rb, 137Cs and 204Tl, the rates of release of the occluded ions can be measured by a rapid ion-exchange technique. Using the fluorescence probes fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC), eosin or 5-iodoacetamido-fluorescein (5-IAF), the rates of the conformational change can be measured by stopped-flow fluorimetry. 4. A comparison of the two rates in the absence of ATP showed that the rate of release of the occluded ions was usually somewhat faster than the rate of the fluorescence change. The discrepancy was probably caused by a very slow direct release of occluded ions from enzyme in the E2 form, but we cannot exclude the possibility that it is the result of systematic errors. In the presence of 5 microM-ATP, both rates were increased and there was no significant difference between them. 5. The results are compatible with the hypothesis that the same conformational change alters the fluorescence of the fluorescent probes and releases the occluded potassium congener ions.
Effect of exogenous ATP upon inositol phosphate production, cationic fluxes and insulin release in pancreatic islet cells.	Endogenous ATP is thought to play a key regulatory role in nutrient-stimulated insulin release. The present study deals with the effect of exogenous ATP and its stable analog alpha, beta-methylene ATP upon pancreatic islet function. Both alpha, beta-methylene ATP (5.0 microM to 0.2 mM) and ATP (0.3-3.0 mM) caused a rapid and concentration-related increase in insulin output by rat islets incubated or perfused at an intermediate concentration of D-glucose (8.3 mM). The effect of the ATP analog faded out at both lower and higher D-glucose concentrations. In the presence of 8.3 mM D-glucose, ATP also increased both 86Rb and 45Ca outflow from prelabelled islets. The cationic response to ATP persisted in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ and, hence, was reminiscent of that evoked by cholinergic agents. Like carbamylcholine, ATP caused a dose-related increase in the production of [3H]inositol phosphates from prelabelled islets or tumoral islet cells (RINm5F line). The latter effect was duplicated by alpha, beta-methylene ATP and unaffected by atropine. It is speculated that ATP, liberated together with insulin at the exocytotic site, might participate in a positive feedback control of insulin release.
Exogenous phospholipase C permeabilizes mammalian cells to proteins.	Mammalian cells treated with low concentrations of phospholipase C become permeable to the protein toxin alpha-sarcin. A similar permeabilization is not induced upon treatment with other lipases such as phospholipase A2, sphingomyelinase, or cholesterol esterase. Concentrations of 10 micrograms/ml alpha-sarcin almost completely blocked translation in HeLa cells treated with 0.3 U/ml phospholipase C (PL-C) for 1 h. In contrast, 200 micrograms/ml of alpha-sarcin had no effect at all on protein synthesis in untreated cells. Other macromolecules such as horseradish peroxidase and luciferase also enter into cells if they are treated with phospholipase C. This permeabilization method is fully reversible. As soon as 5 min after PL-C removal, the cells become impermeable to alpha-sarcin. Other metabolites such as uridine nucleotides are partially released after PL-C incubation, whereas the content of 86Rb+ remains at control levels, probably because the Na+/K+ ATPase activity increases.
Catecholamine stimulation, substrate competition, and myocardial glucose uptake in conscious dogs assessed with positron emission tomography.	Uptake of radiolabelled deoxyglucose out of proportion to reduced coronary flow demonstrated by positron emission tomography has been used to identify reversibly ischemic, viable myocardium. For this concept to be applied reliably in the clinical setting, factors that may depress glucose availability independent of tissue viability, such as adrenergic stimulation and substrate competition, must be examined. Accordingly, we studied the effect of catecholamine stimulation by dopamine on myocardial glucose uptake in vivo using chronically instrumented, intact dogs and positron emission tomography. We measured myocardial activity of [2-18F]-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) and 82Rb in glucose-loaded animals randomly studied during dopamine infusion, during insulin infusion, and then during their combined infusion. Myocardial FDG uptake was significantly decreased when animals were treated with dopamine, compared with treatment in the same animals with insulin. When insulin was added to the dopamine infusion, myocardial FDG uptake was restored. In contrast, myocardial activity of 82Rb, which is taken up in proportion to coronary flow, was similar under all three experimental conditions. Plasma glucose, free fatty acid, and lactate concentrations were determined before and during each infusion. The depression of myocardial FDG activity seen during dopamine infusion and its reversal with addition of insulin can be explained on the basis of effects of these hormones on substrate availability and competition.
K+ efflux in NIH mouse 3T3 cells and transformed derivatives: dependence on extracellular Ca2+ and phorbol esters.	In culture medium deficient in Ca2+, NIH mouse 3T3 cells lose K+, gain Na+, and stop growing. A marked increase in the rate of K+ efflux accounts for this loss; Na+, K+-ATPase pump activity increases but does not fully compensate for enhanced K+ efflux. Phorbol esters and cycloheximide inhibit K+ loss in Ca2+-deficient medium. Phorbol esters inhibit K+ efflux from human fibroblasts as well, even at physiological levels of Ca2+. Two cell lines derived from NIH-3T3, one transformed by a simian virus 40 deletion mutant, the other by the polyoma virus oncogene encoding the middle-sized tumor antigen, retain K+ and can multiply in medium with low Ca2+. Efflux of K+ from these cells is relatively insensitive to reduced Ca2+ concentration, phorbol esters, and cycloheximide. The results suggest the following hypothesis: a channel, nonselective for K+ and Na+, opens when NIH-3T3 cells are in Ca2+-deficient medium; the channel is controlled by the receptor for phorbol ester (protein kinase C) and may also be regulated by a short-lived protein.
Extraction of radioactive rubidium and D-glucose from the artificially perfused intervillous space of the human placenta.	Extraction (Et) of 86Rb and [14C]D-glucose from the artificially perfused intervillous space of the human placenta was measured using [3H]L-glucose as a reference tracer. E. of 86Rb increased slowly from initial values near zero to a late maximum, which indicates that Et was greatly influenced by heterogeneity of indicator transit times through the intervillous space. The ascending part of the plot of -1n(I-Et) against time (t) of 86Rb was approximately linear. In each experiment the time corresponding to zero extraction was estimated by linear extrapolation of the plot. The mean of the times obtained in the individual experiments corresponded to the most frequent transit time of the indicators through the system outside the placenta. These observations suggest that 86Rb is taken up by the trophoblast from the entire space perfused. Under such conditions the rate of the trophoblast uptake can be estimated from the slope of the above plot. Unlike that of 86Rb, Et of [14C]D-glucose increased rapidly to a relatively steady level. This time course of Et may result from combined effects of transit time heterogeneity and rapid back-flux of the tracer.
Increased antifungal activity of L-733,560, a water-soluble, semisynthetic pneumocandin, is due to enhanced inhibition of cell wall synthesis.	The pneumocandins are natural lipopeptide products of the echinocandin class which inhibit the synthesis of 1,3-beta-D-glucan in susceptible fungi. The lack of a corresponding pathway in mammalian hosts makes this mode of action an attractive one for treating systemic infections. Substitution by an aminoethyl ether at the hemiaminal and dehydration and reduction of the glutamine of pneumocandin B0 produced a semisynthetic compound (L-733,560) with intrinsic water solubility, significantly increased potency, and a broader antifungal spectrum. To evaluate the mechanism for the improved antifungal efficacy, we determined that L-733,560 was a more potent inhibitor of glucan synthase activity in vitro, did not affect the other membrane-bound enzymes tested, conferred susceptibility to lysis in the absence of osmotic support, and did not disrupt currents in liposomal bilayers or 86Rb+ fluxes from liposomes. In Aspergillus species L-733,560 also produced the same morphological alterations as pneumocandin B0. A stereoisomer of L-733,560 with poor antifungal activity was a weak inhibitor of glucan synthase. All of these results support the notion that the enhanced antifungal activity of L-733,560 is achieved by superior inhibition of glucan synthesis and not by nonspecific membrane effects or a second mode of action.
Identification of potassium flux pathways and their role in the cytotoxicity of estramustine in human malignant glioma, prostatic carcinoma and pulmonary carcinoma cell lines.	Clinically-used drugs such as furosemide, bumetanide and cardiac glycosides, are modulators of transmembrane fluxes of cations. Recently, it has been suggested that the regulation of intracellular cation concentrations could be a primary target for anti-neoplastic drugs, and that the cytotoxic activity may be altered by inhibitors of cation fluxes at the level of the plasma membrane. Therefore, we investigated the mechanisms by which cations are translocated across the plasma membrane of malignant glioma (U251 MG), prostatic carcinoma (PC3) and pulmonary carcinoma (P31) cell lines. The interactions between cation flux inhibitors and the cytotoxicity of estramustine were also evaluated. Ouabain, the classical inhibitor of Na+, K+ATPase, markedly reduced 86Rb (K+) influx in all three lines, indicating that this ion transport system is present in the cells. Furosemide and especially bumetanide inhibited the 86Rb influx, indicating the presence of the Na+, K+, Cl- co-transport system. The potassium channel blocker, tetraethylammonium, but not apamin reduced the influx of 86Rb showing that high conductance K+ channels are present, but that channels of low conductance probably do not exist in these cell lines. The Na+, K+, Cl- co-transport inhibitors furosemide and bumetanide significantly reduced cytotoxicity of estramustine in P31 cells, whereas no interaction between other K+ flux inhibitors and the anti-neoplastic drugs were detected in any of the cell lines investigated. Thus, the data show that Na+, K+, ATPase and NA+, K+, Cl- co-transport systems and K+ channels of high conductance are present in malignant glioma (U251 MG), prostatic carcinoma (PC3) and pulmonary carcinoma (P31) cell lines, and that inhibition of the Na+, K+, Cl- co-transport system in P31 is associated with reduced cytotoxicity of estramustine. The results justify further studies evaluating the role of these cation flux pathways in terms of targets for anti-neoplastic therapy.
Effects of hydrochlorothiazide on contraction and 86Rb efflux in rat aorta.	Hydrochlorothiazide (HCT) (0.1, 0.3 mmol.L-1) inhibited the contraction of rat aortic strips induced by low (< 40 mmol.L-1), not higher concentrations of KCl. HCT (0.3 mmol.L-1) did not inhibit the CaCl2-induced contraction of the aortic strips depolarized with high K+ (KCl 80 mmol.L-1). The inhibitory effect of HCT (0.1 mmol.L-1) on KCl (20 mmol.L-1)-induced contraction was markedly antagonized by BaCl2 (0.1 mmol.L-1) and tetraethylammonium (TEA) (0.3 mmol.L-1), but not by glibenclamide (Gli, 0.01 mmol.L-1). With norepinephrine (NE) or 5-HT as agonists, HCT (0.3 mmol.L-1) also inhibited the contractions of rat aortic strips. In the 2 components of NE-induced contraction, HCT inhibited only the tonic component depending on Ca2+ influx, but not the phasic component elicited by the release of intracellular Ca2+. The inhibitory action of HCT was endothelium-independent. That the HCT (3 mmol.L-1) increased the 86Rb efflux rate coefficient was antagonized by BaCl2 (0.1 mmol.L-1), but not by Gli (0.01 mmol.L-1). The results indicated that the inhibitory effect of HCT on the contraction of rat aorta was attributable to the opening of membrane potassium channels.
A pyridothiadiazine (BPDZ 44) as a new and potent activator of ATP-sensitive K+ channels.	The present study was undertaken to characterize the effects of [3-(1',2'-dimethyl-propyl)amino-4H-pyrido[4,3-e][1,2,4]thiadiazine 1,1-dioxide] (BPDZ 44), a new pyridothiadiazine derivative, on ionic and secretory events in rat pancreatic islets. The drug increased the rate of 86Rb outflow regardless of the extracellular glucose concentration. The effects of BPDZ 44 on 86Rb outflow persisted in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ but were abolished by glibenclamide. BPDZ 44 markedly decreased 45Ca outflow and insulin output from islets perifused in the presence of 16.7 mM glucose and extracellular Ca2+. The drug did not affect the increase in 45Ca outflow mediated by K+ depolarization. Lastly, in single B-cells, BPDZ 44 inhibited the glucose but not the KCl-induced rise in cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i). These data suggest that BPDZ 44 inhibits the insulin releasing process by activating ATP-sensitive K+ channels. This K+ channel activation will lead to a decrease in Ca2+ influx and reduction in [Ca2+]i.
Nicotinic agonists differ in activation and desensitization of 86Rb+ efflux from mouse thalamic synaptosomes.	The effects of the nicotinic agonists acetylcholine, (+)-anatox in-a, carbachol, cytisine, dimethylphenylpiperazinum, (+)-epibatidine, (-)-epibatidine, methylcarbachol, D-nicotine, L-nicotine, and tetramethylammonium on 86Rb+ efflux from mouse thalamic synaptosomes were investigated. All 11 agonists evoked a concentration-dependent stimulation of 86Rb+ efflux as well as a time- and concentration-dependent reduction of response (desensitization). The agonists varied widely in potency, efficacy and rate of desensitization. (+)-Epibatidine was the most potent agonist (EC50 = 10 nM), whereas tetramethylammonium was the least potent (EC50 = 65 microM). The agonists containing a quaternary ammonium group were generally more efficacious than the other agonists, except for both of the enantiomers of epibatidine, which stimulated 86Rb+ efflux at least as well as acetylcholine. Cytisine was the least efficacious compound tested with a maximal response approximately 10% that of (-)-epibatidine. Exposure of the thalamic synaptosomes to agonist concentrations that generally stimulated little or no efflux reduced in a concentration-dependent manner a subsequent response to 10 microM nicotine. The IC50 values for this functional blockade (desensitization) were highly correlated with the Ki values for the inhibition of [3H]nicotine binding. Furthermore, exposure of the thalamic synaptosomes to 300 nM L-nicotine reduced the responses evoked by a subsequent exposure to a stimulating concentration of all 11 agonists. The observation of desensitization by both stimulating and substimulating concentrations of each agonist is consistent with the predictions of the two-state model of Katz and Thesleff.
Calcium modulation of activation and desensitization of nicotinic receptors from mouse brain.	The effects of extracellular calcium on functional properties of nicotinic receptors from mouse thalamus were investigated. Previous studies have reported that calcium modulates the function of several neuronal nicotinic receptors. A 86Rb+ ion efflux assay was developed to measure nicotinic receptor function from brain tissue, and data indicate that alpha4beta2 receptors may mediate this response. Using the 86Rb+ efflux assay, calcium effects on receptor activation, desensitization induced by high, activating and low, subactivating concentrations of agonist, and recovery from desensitization were examined. Effects of calcium on the kinetics of ligand binding were also investigated. Calcium modulated receptor activation by increasing the maximal response to nicotine in a concentration-dependent manner, without affecting the EC50 of nicotine. Barium, but not magnesium, mimicked the effects of calcium on receptor activation. The increase in receptor activation could not be explained by changes in the ratio of activatable to desensitized receptors as assessed by the kinetics of ligand binding. Desensitization following activation was unaffected by calcium. Calcium, barium, and magnesium, however, increased the potency of nicotine for desensitization induced by exposure to low, subactivating concentrations of nicotine. Recovery from desensitization was not modulated by calcium. These data suggest that calcium modulates various functional aspects of nicotinic receptors from mouse brain and may do so via different mechanisms.
Regulation of corneal endothelial barrier function by adenosine, cyclic AMP, and protein kinases.	To determine which processes or factors that regulate corneal hydration are responsible for the hydration-modulating effects of adenosine. Influx of fluid to the stroma and efflux to the aqueous humor are governed, respectively, by the imbibition pressure of the stromal matrix and the transendothelial ionic gradients determined by the permeability and active transport characteristics of this monolayer. The focus of this study was to assess the effects of adenosine on these endothelial parameters.
