Anion-dependent Mg2+ influx and a role for a vacuolar H+-ATPase in sheep ruminal epithelial cells.	The K+-insensitive component of Mg2+ influx in primary culture of ruminal epithelial cells (REC) was examined by means of fluorescence techniques. The effects of extracellular anions, ruminal fermentation products, and transport inhibitors on the intracellular free Mg2+ concentration ([Mg2+]i), Mg2+ uptake, and intracellular pH were determined. Under control conditions (HEPES-buffered high-NaCl medium), the [Mg2+]i of REC increased from 0.56 +/- 0.14 to 0.76 +/- 0.06 mM, corresponding to a Mg2+ uptake rate of 15 microM/min. Exposure to butyrate did not affect Mg2+ uptake, but it was stimulated (by 84 +/- 19%) in the presence of CO2/HCO(-)3. In contrast, Mg2+ uptake was strongly diminished if REC were suspended in HCO(-)3-buffered high-KCl medium (22.3 +/- 4 microM/min) rather than in HEPES-buffered KCl medium (37.5 +/- 6 microM/min). After switching from high- to low-Cl- solution, [Mg2+]i was reduced from 0.64 +/- 0.09 to 0.32 +/- 0.16 mM and the CO2/HCO(-)3-stimulated Mg2+ uptake was completely inhibited. Bumetanide and furosemide blocked the rate of Mg2+ uptake by 64 and 40%, respectively. Specific blockers of vacuolar H+-ATPase reduced the [Mg2+]i (36%) and Mg2+ influx (38%) into REC. We interpret this data to mean that the K+-insensitive Mg2+ influx into REC is mediated by a cotransport of Mg2+ and Cl- and is energized by an H+-ATPase. The stimulation of Mg2+ transport by ruminal fermentation products may result from a modulation of the H+-ATPase activity.
Experimental aerosol infection of cattle (Bos taurus) with ovine herpesvirus 2 using nasal secretions from infected sheep.	Infection of clinically susceptible ruminants, including domesticated cattle and American bison, with ovine herpesvirus 2 (OvHV-2) can result in the fatal lymphoproliferative and vasculitis syndrome known as malignant catarrhal fever (MCF). A reliable experimental infection model is needed to study the pathogenesis of MCF and to develop effective vaccination strategies to control the disease. An experimental aerosol infection model using sheep, the natural carriers of OvHV-2, has been developed (Taus et al., 2005). Using the protocol and OvHV-2 inoculum established in the previous study, eight calves were nebulized with four different doses of OvHV-2 in nasal secretions from infected sheep. Two control calves were nebulized with nasal secretions from uninfected sheep. Infection status of all calves was monitored using competitive inhibition ELISA, PCR and clinical parameters. Six of eight nebulized calves became infected with OvHV-2. One calf receiving the highest dose of virus developed typical clinical, gross and histological changes of MCF. This study showed that nasal secretions collected from sheep experiencing OvHV-2 shedding episodes were infectious for cattle and capable of inducing MCF. The data also indicate that cattle are relatively resistant to disease following infection. The use of more susceptible species as experimental animal models, such as bison and selected cervid species should be examined.
Ontogenesis of the rumen: a comparative analysis of the Merino sheep and Iberian red deer.	The aim of this study is to describe differences in the ontogenesis of the rumen in the sheep (domestic ruminant) and deer (wild ruminant). A total of 50 embryos and fetuses of Merino sheep and 50 of Iberian deer were used, from the first stages of prenatal life until birth. For the study, the animals were divided into five experimental groups according to the most relevant histological characteristics. The appearance of the rumen from the primitive gastric tube was earlier in the sheep (22% gestation, 33 days) than in the deer (25% gestation, 66 days). In both cases it displayed a primitive epithelium of a stratified, cylindrical, non-ciliary type. At around 28% gestation in the sheep (42 days) and 26% (67 days) in the deer, the rumen was configured of three clearly-differentiated layers: internal or mucosal, middle or muscular and external or serosal. In both species the stratification of the epithelial layer was accompanied by modifications in its structure with the appearance of the ruminal pillars and papillae. The pillars appeared before the papillae and the appearance of both structures was always earlier in the deer (pillars: 70 days, 27% gestation; papillae: 97 days, 36% gestation) than in the sheep (pillars: 42 days, 28% gestation; papillae: 57 days, 38% gestation). The outlines of the ruminal papillae appeared as evaginations of the basal zone toward the ruminal lumen, dragging in their formation the basal membrane, the lamina propria and the submucosa. The tegumentary mucosa of the rumen was without secretion capability in the first embryonic phases. From 67 days (26% gestation) the neutral mucopolysaccharides appeared in the deer and at 46 days (30% gestation) in the sheep. In both cases they continued to decrease until birth, this diminution being more pronounced in the deer. Finally, the presence of neuroendocrine and glial cells was detected in the deer at earlier stages than in the sheep.
The effects of butyrate and glucagon on the proliferation of ruminal epithelial cells in culture.	When the rate of ruminal epithelial cell proliferation was measured on the basis of 3H-thymidine incorporation into the cellular DNA, butyrate dose-dependently reduced 3H-thymidine incorporation. In contrast, glucagon at 10 and 100 pg/ml had a slight stimulatory effect on the incorporation, but only in the absence of butyrate.
Histochemistry of the forestomach epithelium of the reindeer calf.	Samples from the rumen, reticulum and omasum of 26 reindeer calves were taken during the winter season. Non-specific alkaline and acid phosphatases, cytochrome and amine oxidases as well as succinate, lactate and 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenases were demonstrated in the epithelium histochemically. The phosphatases were usually present in all the epithelial layers, whereas the activities of the other enzymes decreased in the outer layers and could not be demonstrated in the stratum corneum. The activity of alkaline phosphatase seemed to be highest in the reticulum and lowest in the omasum. The reason for the higher activity of this enzyme in epithelial taps in the rumen and omasum and in the reticular and omasal papillae may be the greater need for effective vertical transcellular transport in these regions. There was a tendency for enzymes other than phosphatases to be more active in the rumen than in the other forestomachs, which probably reflects the higher metabolic activity of the ruminal epithelium. No clear differences between early and late winter could be demonstrated.
