Ruminococcin C, a new anti-Clostridium perfringens bacteriocin produced in the gut by the commensal bacterium Ruminococcus gnavus E1.	When colonizing the digestive tract of mono-associated rats, Ruminococcus gnavus E1 - a bacterium isolated from human faeces - produced a trypsin-dependent anti-Clostridium perfringens substance collectively named Ruminococcin C (RumC). RumC was isolated from the caecal contents of E1-monocontaminated rats and found to consist of two antimicrobial fractions: a single peptide (RumCsp) of 4235 Da, and a mixture of two other peptides (RumCdp) with distinct molecular masses of 4324 Da and 4456 Da. Both RumCsp and RumCdp were as effective as metronidazole in combating C. perfringens and their activity spectra against different pathogens were established. Even if devoid of synergistic activity, the combination of RumCsp and RumCdp was observed to be much more resistant to acidic pH and high temperature than each fraction tested individually. N-terminal sequence analysis showed that the primary structures of these three peptides shared a high degree of homology, but were clearly distinct from previously reported amino acid sequences. Amino acid composition of the three RumC peptides did not highlight the presence of any Lanthionine residue. However, Edman degradation could not run beyond the 11th amino acid residue. Five genes encoding putative pre-RumC-like peptides were identified in the genome of strain E1, confirming that RumC was a bacteriocin. This is the first time that a bacteriocin produced in vivo by a human commensal bacterium was purified and characterized.
In vitro fermentation of linear and alpha-1,2-branched dextrans by the human fecal microbiota.	The role of structure and molecular weight in fermentation selectivity in linear α-1,6 dextrans and dextrans with α-1,2 branching was investigated. Fermentation by gut bacteria was determined in anaerobic, pH-controlled fecal batch cultures after 36 h. Inulin (1%, wt/vol), which is a known prebiotic, was used as a control. Samples were obtained at 0, 10, 24, and 36 h of fermentation for bacterial enumeration by fluorescent in situ hybridization and short-chain fatty acid analyses. The gas production of the substrate fermentation was investigated in non-pH-controlled, fecal batch culture tubes after 36 h. Linear and branched 1-kDa dextrans produced significant increases in Bifidobacterium populations. The degree of α-1,2 branching did not influence the Bifidobacterium populations; however, α-1,2 branching increased the dietary fiber content, implying a decrease in digestibility. Other measured bacteria were unaffected by the test substrates except for the Bacteroides-Prevotella group, the growth levels of which were increased on inulin and 6- and 70-kDa dextrans, and the Faecalibacterium prausnitzii group, the growth levels of which were decreased on inulin and 1-kDa dextrans. A considerable increase in short-chain fatty acid concentration was measured following the fermentation of all dextrans and inulin. Gas production rates were similar among all dextrans tested but were significantly slower than that for inulin. The linear 1-kDa dextran produced lower total gas and shorter time to attain maximal gas production compared to those of the 70-kDa dextran (branched) and inulin. These findings indicate that dextrans induce a selective effect on the gut flora, short-chain fatty acids, and gas production depending on their length.
