Transmission of a pestivirus infection in a population of Pyrenean chamois.	Outbreaks of a previously unrecorded disease have recently affected Pyrenean chamois (Rupicapra pyrenaica pyrenaica) populations across the mountain range. A pestivirus was hypothesized to be the cause of this emerging disease and this type of virus can cross the species barrier and be transmitted to or from wildlife. Using an epidemiological survey conducted from 1995 to 2004 at Orlu, France, we characterized the virus and analyzed its transmission. A phylogenetic analysis of viral sequences and virus neutralization tests showed that the virus belonged to the newly described border disease virus-4 group. The increase of seroprevalence with age indicated that infection can occur at any age and resulted in lifelong immunity. Overall, 70.3% of 323 samples were positive for anti-p80 antibodies and 10.2% of 167 samples showed viremia, as demonstrated by either positive ELISA antigen test or RT-PCR. Infection has thus been widespread in this population since 1995, whereas no mass mortality or clinical signs have been observed. Incidence and seroprevalence varied seasonally and according to number of individuals aged less than 2 years old in the population, so viral transmission was dependent on host population age structure. We propose that the virus is now endemic in this population and is likely detrimental for reproduction and juveniles. Further investigation is needed to estimate the impact of pestivirus on host population dynamics and the risk of cross-transmission to farm animals.
Analysis of mitochondrial DNA for authentication of meats from chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra), pyrenean ibex (Capra pyrenaica), and mouflon (Ovis ammon) by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism.	The prevention of fraudulent labeling of game meat constitutes an important part of food regulatory control and quality assurance systems. A polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) analysis based on mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) was developed for authentication of meats from chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra), pyrenean ibex (Capra pyrenaica), and mouflon (Ovis ammon). Amplification and restriction site analysis of a DNA fragment about 720 base pairs (bp) from the mitochondrial 12S rRNA gene of all analyzed species permitted the selection of Msel and Apol endonucleases for meat speciation. The 12S rRNA restriction profiles obtained allowed the unequivocal identification of chamois, pyrenean ibex, and mouflon/sheep and their differentiation from meats of domestic species such as cattle, goat, and swine. The highly variable mitochondrial D-loop gene was also targeted to attempt discrimination between mouflon and sheep meats. A D-loop region (700-1000 bp) was amplified and sequenced in all game and domestic species analyzed, and a primer set was designed for the selective amplification of a 370 bp DNA fragment from mouflon and sheep. PCR-RFLP analysis with the selected Maell enzyme generated a single electrophoretic profile characteristic for sheep, whereas 3 different fragment patterns were obtained for mouflon meats. Consequently, the PCR-RFLP technique developed can be routinely applied in inspection programs in order to verify the correct labeling of game species.
