"Do It Now!" Yakima, Wash, and the campaign against rural typhoid.	In 1911, Yakima, in western Washington, suffered a typhoid epidemic that turned the nation's attention to a crisis in public health. The response exemplified the ideals of the "new public health" as a more proactive, scientific, federal commitment to the problems of rural America. A US Public Health Service investigation led by Dr Leslie Lumsden found a typhoid mortality rate of nearly 5 times the national average. The cause was bad sanitation. Typhoid rates dropped dramatically as the community adopted pragmatic solutions. Lumsden helped organize a "Do It Now" sanitation campaign and one of the country's first city-county health units. Yakima provided a model for other rural areas and small towns across the country. This episode in one of the country's most productive fruit-growing regions raised serious questions regarding the geographic dynamics of disease. For Lumsden and other like-minded health officials, the countryside represented a dangerous reservoir of disease, a particular threat to the nation's agriculturally dependent urban populations. Yakima showed that the country needed a more comprehensive public health system that addressed urban and rural problems.
Medical gentlemen and the process of professionalisation before 1860.	In the early-nineteenth century, the professionalisation of medicine at the Cape began in earnest. Although there were key legislative and professional developments in this period, the notion, outlined in Burrows' seminal work on South African medical history, that it was a 'golden' age of medical reform underplays the extent of intra-professional differentiation and draws attention away from the politics of professional regulation at the Cape. The period was a time of inter- and intra-professional conflict as doctors, druggists and shopkeepers competed to sell drugs and medical advice and it spawned a profession that was deeply divided. In spite of early, general and monopolistic legislation passed in 1807, the process of medical professionalisation at the Cape was very uneven, cementing an intra-professional distinction between doctors in Cape Town and doctors or druggists in the rest of the colony. The special status of Cape Town provided the bedrock for an urban-rural divide in professional regulation and services still present in South Africa today.
Translation de domicile: rethinking sedentarity and mobility in the early modern French countryside.	Was the countryside of early modern France marked fundamentally by mobility or sedentarity? Tax rolls suggest the former, high endogamy rates the latter. For the period 1660-1720, a rarely used source, the registers of translation de domicile (change of tax domicile), provide a more comprehensive answer than civil or tax records. They suggest that, first, 60,000-70,000 better-off families moved each year; second, poor migrants, such as day labourers, rarely made declarations; third, those who owned land, moved far less often; fourth, laboureurs typically moved between 10 and 40 kilometres to take on farms of greater importance; fifth, cottagers and day labourers moved to a nearby village, rarely more than 5 kilometres away and finally, men and their families moved for economic gain, whereas women moved because of economic loss, after the death of their husband. Because the laboureurs dominated the villages-for example, paying most of the taxes-their movement shook the village in fundamental ways. The translation de domicile registers indicate villages open to the outside, full of in-migrants, whose economic status often bore a close correlation to the distance of their move (high-long, low-short).
Socioeconomic effects of HIV/AIDS and farmers' involvement in risky behaviour in southern Nigeria.	This article analyses farmers' perceptions on the socioeconomic effects of HIV/AIDS and factors associated with their involvement in risky behaviour in southern part of Nigeria. The data were collected in 2004 from 515 farmers in five randomly selected states in southern Nigeria. The results show that most of the affected farmers spend reduced hours in daily work, as well as having a reduced income and reduced participation in community development due to HIV/AIDS. Logistic regression reveals that age and education significantly reduce the probability of being involved in behaviour conducive to HIV/AIDS infection, which is increased by not believing in the existence of HIV/AIDS, ignorance about HIV/AIDS methods of prevention, lack of warning about HIV/AIDS, reports of HIV/AIDS in the village, the distance to the public health centre and the lack of a health centre. These findings, while unsurprising, emphasise the importance of HIV/AIDS as a socioeconomic issue.
Fleurs-de-lis in the forest: "absolute" monarchy and attempts at resource management in eighteenth-century France.	The notion of "resource management" has inspired some historians to rethink the nature of the state authority in early modern Europe. Like recent work on parts of Italy and Germany, this article investigates the development and implementation of legislation that sought to regulate the management and exploitation of forests. This was self-interested policymaking: as ancien régime France strove to match Britain's naval, colonial and maritime strength, the monarchy's priority was ship timbers. Yet the most sought-after pieces of wood were large, heavy and difficult to transport. According to standard accounts, such resources became rare during the eighteenth century, and the French navy turned increasingly to timber supplies from abroad. This article offers a wider view, by finding ways to analyse bureaucratic records created by the royal forestry officials (Eaux et Forêts), which have been largely neglected by historians. A regional case study suggests that, besides extending the authority of royal agents to acquire timbers for the naval dockyards, the application of Louis XIV's Ordinance on Waterways and Forests (1669) generated huge amounts of information about the extent, nature and location of mature timber reserves across France.
Parallel realities: exploring poverty dynamics using mixed methods in rural Bangladesh.	This paper explores the implications of using two methodological approaches to study poverty dynamics in rural Bangladesh. Using data from a unique longitudinal study, we show how different methods lead to very different assessments of socio-economic mobility. We suggest five ways of reconciling these differences: considering assets in addition to expenditures, proximity to the poverty line, other aspects of well-being, household division, and qualitative recall errors. Considering assets and proximity to the poverty line along with expenditures resolves three-fifths of the qualitative and quantitative differences. Use of such integrated mixed-methods can therefore improve the reliability of poverty dynamics research.
The Campesino-to-Campesino agroecology movement of ANAP in Cuba: social process methodology in the construction of sustainable peasant agriculture and food sovereignty.	Agroecology has played a key role in helping Cuba survive the crisis caused by the collapse of the socialist bloc in Europe and the tightening of the US trade embargo. Cuban peasants have been able to boost food production without scarce and expensive imported agricultural chemicals by first substituting more ecological inputs for the no longer available imports, and then by making a transition to more agroecologically integrated and diverse farming systems. This was possible not so much because appropriate alternatives were made available, but rather because of the Campesino-a-Campesino (CAC) social process methodology that the National Association of Small Farmers (ANAP) used to build a grassroots agroecology movement. This paper was produced in a 'self-study' process spearheaded by ANAP and La Via Campesina, the international agrarian movement of which ANAP is a member. In it we document and analyze the history of the Campesino-to-Campesino Agroecology Movement (MACAC), and the significantly increased contribution of peasants to national food production in Cuba that was brought about, at least in part, due to this movement. Our key findings are (i) the spread of agroecology was rapid and successful largely due to the social process methodology and social movement dynamics, (ii) farming practices evolved over time and contributed to significantly increased relative and absolute production by the peasant sector, and (iii) those practices resulted in additional benefits including resilience to climate change.
From famine to food crisis: what history can teach us about local and global subsistence crises.	The number of famine prone regions in the world has been shrinking for centuries. It is currently mainly limited to sub-Saharan Africa. Yet the impact of endemic hunger has not declined and the early twenty-first century seems to be faced with a new threat: global subsistence crises. In this essay I question the concepts of famine and food crisis from different analytical angles: historical and contemporary famine research, food regime theory, and peasant studies. I will argue that only a more integrated historical framework of analysis can surpass dualistic interpretations grounded in Eurocentric modernization paradigms. This article successively debates historical and contemporary famine research, the contemporary food regime and the new global food crisis, the lessons from Europe's 'grand escape' from hunger, and the peasantry and 'depeasantization' as central analytical concepts. Dualistic histories of food and famine have been dominating developmentalist stories for too long. This essay shows how a blending of historical and contemporary famine research, food regime theory and new peasant studies can foster a more integrated perspective.
Livelihood transitions and the changing nature of farmer-herder conflict in Sahelian West Africa.	The accommodation of livestock husbandry with crop agriculture is crucial for the future of the West African Sahel. Present trends are leading to greater restrictions on livestock husbandry and a growing convergence of livelihood practices among groups whose identities are tied to herding and farming. Using the cases of four rural communities in Niger, this study adopts an 'access to resources' framework to analyse the causal connections among: rural peoples' livelihood strategies, everyday social relations of production, perceptions of social groups' identities, and the potential for farmer-herder conflict. While the convergence of livelihoods arguably increases the frequency of conflict triggers, it has also, through the expansion of shared common interests and cross-group, production-related relationships, improved the ability of communities to effectively manage these incipient conflicts.
Information flows and social externalities in a Tanzanian banana growing village.	This article analyses the role of social networks as facilitators of information flows and banana output increase. Based on a village census, full information is available on the socio-economic characteristics and banana production of farmers' kinship group members, neighbours and informal insurance group members. The census data enable us to use individual specific reference groups and include exogenous group controls to tackle standard difficulties related to identification and omitted variables bias when analysing social effects. For the survey village of Nyakatoke in Tanzania the results suggest that information flows exist within all types of groups analysed but output externalities are limited to kinship groups. Using networks may offer scope for effective information flows on agricultural techniques, but our evidence suggests that not just any local network will have a social externality impact, requiring a clear understanding of local social networks for maximum impact.
Work and empowerment: women and agriculture in South India.	This article explores the implications of women's work in agriculture in Telangana, a region in the state of Andhra Pradesh, India. I suggest that higher capital costs for cultivators' post-liberalisation increased the pressure to contain wage costs in a region where women form the majority of the agricultural wage labour force. Under such conditions, when women perform both own-cultivation as well as agricultural wage work in the fields of others, they face pressure to restrict bargaining for higher wages, contributing to a widening gender wage gap. To the extent that wages shape intra-household bargaining power, the empowering effect of workforce participation for such women would thus be blunted. From available NSS data I provide some preliminary evidence in support of this argument.
Bt cotton and farmer suicides in India: an evidence-based assessment.	Bt cotton is accused of being responsible for an increase of farmer suicides in India. In this article, we provide a comprehensive review of evidence on Bt cotton and farmer suicides. Available data show no evidence of a 'resurgence' of farmer suicides. Moreover, Bt cotton technology has been very effective overall in India. Nevertheless, in specific districts and years, Bt cotton may have indirectly contributed to farmer indebtedness, leading to suicides, but its failure was mainly the result of the context or environment in which it was planted.
An asset-based approach to vulnerability: the case of small-scale fishing areas in Cameroon and Nigeria.	This paper analyses vulnerability to poverty of rural small-scale fishing communities using cross-section data from 295 households in Cameroon and 267 in Nigeria. We propose a vulnerability measure that incorporates the idea of asset poverty into the concept of expected poverty, which allows decomposing expected poverty into expected structural-chronic, structural-transient, and stochastic-transient poverty. The findings show that most households in our study areas are expected to be structurally-chronic and structurally-transient poor. This underlines the importance of asset formation for long-term poverty reduction strategies. Further refinements are possible with longitudinal data and information about future states of nature.
Rice farming in Bali: organic production and marketing challenges.	All is not well with agriculture in Southeast Asia. The productivity gains of the Green Revolution have slowed and even reversed and environmental problems and shortages of water and land are evident. At the same time changing world markets are shifting the dynamics of national agricultural economies. But from the point of view of farmers themselves, it is their season-to-season economic survival that is at stake. Bali is in some ways typical of other agricultural areas in the region, but it is also a special case because of its distinctive economic and cultural environment dominated by tourism. In this environment, farmers are doubly marginalized. At the same time the island offers them unique market opportunities for premium and organic produce. This article examines the ways in which these opportunities have been approached and describes their varying degrees of success. It focuses especially on one project that has been successful in reducing production costs by conversion to organic production, but less so in marketing its produce. It argues finally for the need for integrated studies of the entire rice production/marketing complex, especially from the bottom-up point of view of farmers.
Women, microcredit and family planning practices: a case study from rural Ghana.	This paper examines the influence of informal banking club participation on family planning practices in rural Ghana. Research from Asia suggests that family planning practices are improved by club participation. This study examines this thesis in an African context, using rural Ghana as a case study. A sample of 204 women (19 years and older) was drawn from Abokobi village, Ghana. Multivariate analyses of direct, mediating and moderating effects of women’s demographic background characteristics, membership status and length, and women’s empowerment status as predictors of family planning practices are assessed. Findings suggest that club membership and membership length is not associated with family planning practices; however, age, education level, number of children and empowerment status are.
Non-exercise physical activity in agricultural and urban people.	With evidence that urbanisation is associated with obesity, diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease, this article compares daily physical activity between rural and urban dwellers. Specifically, it examines habitual daily activity levels, non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT) and energy expenditure in agricultural and urban Jamaicans and urban North Americans. Ambulation was 60 per cent greater in rural Jamaicans than in the urban dwellers (4675 ± 2261 versus 2940 ± 1120 ambulation-attributed arbitrary units (AU)/day; P = 0.001). Levels of ambulation in lean urban Jamaicans were similar to those in lean urban North Americans, whereas obese urban dwellers walked less than their lean urban counterparts (2198 ± 516 versus 2793 ± 774 AU/day; P = 0.01). The data with respect to daily sitting mirrored the walking data; obese Americans sat for almost four hours more each day than rural Jamaicans (562 ± 78 versus 336 ± 68 minutes/day; P < 0.001). Urbanisation is associated with low levels of daily activity and NEAT.
The rise and decline of the Cooperative Medical System in rural China.	The Cooperative Medical System (CMS) in China is an established medical system that serves the rural areas and provides treatment and prevention of disease, immunization, family planning, and maternal and child health care services. Past experience suggests that the CMS benefited the peasants in rural China. During the 1980s, following reform of China's economic system, the CMS underwent major changes. In some places, CMS stations evolved into various other types of medical and health care systems; in other places, CMS stations ceased operation altogether. This article attempts to analyze the causes and meaning of these changes, and examines the conditions for continuation of this system.
