Trends in suicide mortality in the deprived region of Epirus (north-west Greece) during the period 1998-2002.	This study determines the risk factors associated with suicide rates and the investigation of time trends in the deprived region of Epirus, north-west Greece, which is considered to be one of the least developed prefectures of the EU. Data selected demonstrated: (1) a mean age-standardized suicide rate per year of 4.00/100,000 for males, 1.29/100,000 for females and 2.65/100,000 for the total population; (2) a significant rising trend of male suicides in the 35-44 and 65-74 age groups; (3) a low female suicide rate in < 35 years age group and a relatively stable rate in the other age groups; (4) a significantly higher suicide rate in men than in women from both urban and rural areas and in older men from rural areas; (5) higher rates of suicide among widowed men and unmarried women; (6) the use of predominantly violent suicide methods, especially self-shooting, hanging and drowning; (7) a significant peak in the total suicide rate in the spring and summer months and a decreased rate in September; and (8) three out of four of the suicide victims had consumed alcohol and/or other drugs before the act. Data reported here shows some remarkable trends compared to previous reports on suicide in Greece and other countries, probably due to cultural and life style characteristics of the study population.
Changes in body composition between 1997 and 2002 among South Australian children: influences of socio-economic status and location of residence.	To compare rates of change in South Australian children's body composition between 1997 and 2002 in subsamples based on location of residence and socioeconomic status.
Epidemiological, social and psychiatric aspects in self-poisoned patients. A prospective comparative study from Trondheim, Norway between 1978 and 1987.	A prospective study of an unselected group of patients admitted in a Medical Department in 1978 (n = 257) and 1987 (n = 361) after deliberate self-poisoning is presented. The rate increased significantly over the period of the study (P less than 0.05). Family problems, unemployment, poor social conditions and alcohol and drug abuse had increased. The main psychiatric diagnosis was neurosis. From 1978 to 1987 "abuse" had increased substantially. The 10-year mortality rate was 4.5 and 4.1 times the expected value for female and male patients, respectively. We conclude that social and psychiatric problems are increasing and that the treatment of these patients today is far from satisfactory.
Secular trends and smoke-free policy development in rural Kentucky.	Secondhand smoke (SHS) exposure causes cardiovascular disease, lung cancer and pulmonary disorders. Smoke-free policies are the most effective way to prevent exposure to SHS. A 5-year community-based randomized control trial (RCT) is in progress to assess factors associated with smoke-free policy development in rural communities. Considering secular trends is critical when conducting community-based RCTs as they may threaten the internal validity of the study. For the purposes of this paper, secular trends are defined as patterns or recurring events that are not directly related to smoke-free policy but have the potential to influence policy development. There are no established protocols to monitor secular trends in the study of smoke-free policy in rural communities. The purpose of this paper is to (i) describe the development of a protocol to identify and monitor secular trends that may threaten the internal validity of a community-based RCT to promote smoke-free policy development and (ii) describe secular trends identified in the first 2 years of the RCT. The sample includes 854 secular events captured from media outlets covering the 40 study counties over the first 2 years of the RCT. Of these 854 events, there were 281 secular events in Year 1 and 573 in Year 2. This paper focuses on five specific categories: 'tobacco use and cessation activities', 'farming', 'economics', 'city/county infrastructure' and 'wellness'. This protocol is a feasible yet time-intensive method of identifying events that may threaten the internal validity of a community-based RCT.
Clinical correlates of fetal alcohol spectrum disorder among diagnosed individuals in a rural diagnostic clinic.	Diagnosis of fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD) is relevant for the reduction of long term adverse sequalae. However, the diagnostic guidelines require a multidisciplinary approach which may hinder access to diagnostic and management services. Most diagnostic clinics are located in urban areas. There is less emphasis on the operations, capacities, and outcomes from rural diagnostic clinics.
Prevalence and risk factors of onychomycosis in primary school children living in rural and urban areas in Central Anatolia of Turkey.	Onychomycosis is a world-wide public health concern in children, requiring epidemiological data for different regions for control and prevention.
The Korean urban rural elderly cohort study: study design and protocol.	Korea is one of the fastest aging countries and is expected to become a super-aged society within 12 years. The Korean Urban Rural Elderly (KURE) study was developed to evaluate the epidemiological characteristics and establish the prevention and management of major disorders of the elderly in Korea.
Correlation of cervical cancer mortality with reproductive and dietary factors, and serum markers in China.	Cervical cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death among Chinese women. Within China, a considerable geographical variation in mortality rates has been observed, but the reasons are not well understood.
Socioeconomic and anthropometric status, and mortality of young children in rural Bangladesh.	This article investigates the interrelationship of socioeconemic status, anthropometric status and mortality of young children in rural Bangladesh. Data for this study come from Matlab, the vital registration area of the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh, where anthropometric and socioeconomic data concerning 1976 children aged 12-23 months were collected in November-December 1975. From these data, anthropometric indices are created, and the relationships of socioeconomic status measured by dwelling space and anthropometric indices with mortality during the 2 years following measurement of these children are investigated. It is found that both socioeconomic status and anthropometric indices are related to mortality. However, the relationship of anthropometric indices is much stronger. Among the anthropometric indices considered, weight-for-age, height-for-age and arm circumference reflect socioeconomic status better than weight-for-height does; and, the first three indices are equally good, and individually better than weight-for-height, as predictors of mortality. The degree of the effect of socioeconomic status (dwelling space) on mortality explained by the best performing anthropometric index, weight-for-age, was not more than 25%. It is concluded that an anthropometric index that can classify socioeconomic status more efficiently is a better predictor of 2-year mortality than any other anthropometric index.
