The study of phenolic compounds as natural antioxidants in wine.	Plant phenolics present in fruit and vegetables, and that are particularly rich in red wine, have received considerable attention because of their potential antioxidant activity. Human consumption of antioxidants has many alleged health benefits, including protection against cardiovascular diseases, and, most recently, cancer. Red wines contain a variety of polyphenolic antioxidants. Five samples of commercial red wines from Spain and four phenolic compounds of red wine: gallic acid, trans-resveratrol, quercetin and rutin, have been studied. The total phenolics content and the total antioxidant activity (TAA) of wines was determined. The total phenolic content, determined according to the Folin-Ciocalteu method, varied from 1800 to 2300 mg/L, expressed as gallic acid equivalents (GAE). The antioxidative effects of wine phenolics were determined using a system based on the inhibition by antioxidants of the absorbance of the radical cation. The relationship between antioxidant activity of phenolic comounds, as hydrogen donating free radical scavengers, and their chemical structures was studied. Furthermore, the total antioxidant activity of the wines investigated was well correlated with phenol content. Thus, the results confirm that red wine polyphenols are, in vitro, significant antioxidants.
Characterization of non-covalent complexes of rutin with cyclodextrins by electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.	Electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS(n)) and the phase solubility method were used to characterize the gas-phase and solution-phase non-covalent complexes between rutin (R) and alpha-, beta- and gamma-cyclodextrins (CDs). The direct correlation between mass spectrometric results and solution-phase behavior is thus revealed. The order of the 1 : 1 association constants (K(c)) of the complexes between R and the three CDs in solution calculated from solubility diagrams is in good agreement with the order of their relative peak intensities and relative collision-induced dissociation (CID) energies of the complexes under the same ESI-MS(n) condition in both the positive and negative ion modes. Not only the binding stoichiometry but also the relative stabilities and even binding sites of the CD-R complexes can be elucidated by ESI-MS(n). The diagnostic fragmentation of CD-R complexes, with a significant contribution of covalent fragmentation of rutin leaving the quercetin (Q) moiety attached to the CDs, provides convincing evidence for the formation of inclusion complexes between R and CDs. The diagnostic fragment ions can be partly confirmed by the complexes between Q and CDs. The gas-phase stability order of the deprotonated CD-R complexes is beta-CD-R > alpha-CD-R > gamma-CD/R; beta-CD seems to bind R more strongly than the other CDs.
Simultaneous determination of phytoestrogens in different medicinal parts of Sophora japonica L. by capillary electrophoresis with electrochemical detection.	A high-performance capillary electrophoresis with electrochemical detection (CE-ED) method has been developed for the determination of phytoestrogens from the pericarps and seeds of Sophora japonica L. in this work. Genistin, genistein, rutin, kaempferol and quercetin are important bioactive constituents in these plants. The effects of several factors such as the acidity and concentration of running buffer, the separation voltage, the applied potential and the injection time on the CE-ED procedure were investigated. Under the optimum conditions, the five analytes could be well separated within 18 min in a 75 cm length capillary (i.d. 25 microm) at the separation voltage of 16 kV in a 50 mmol L(-1) borax running buffer (pH 9.0). A 300 microm diameter carbon disk electrode was used as the working electrode positioned carefully opposite the outlet of the capillary in a wall-jet configuration at the potential of +950 mV (vs SCE). Detection limits (S/N = 3) ranged from 1.1 x 10(-7) to 2.8 x 10(-7) g mL(-1) for all fi ve analytes. This method was successfully used to analyse dried Flos sophorae immaturus, pericarps and seeds of dried Fructus sophorae after a relatively simple extraction procedure, and the assay results were satisfactory.
Effect of nighttime temperature on tomato plant defensive chemistry.	Given that the amplitude of diurnal temperature fluctuations has been decreasing, mainly via warmer night temperatures, we examined the effects of nighttime temperature on concentration of the catecholic phenolics chlorogenic acid and rutin in tomato plants. A two-factor design, with carbon dioxide (350 ppm and 700 ppm) and nighttime temperature (14, 15, 16, 17, and 18 degrees C, with a 26 degrees C daytime temperature) was used. Compared to the lower carbon dioxide level, for whole plants the concentration of phenolics was lower at the higher carbon dioxide level, but patterns for plant parts differed. Nighttime temperature did not affect concentration of phenolics for whole plants, but it did influence concentration of the phenolics for plant parts, although not in predictable ways. Furthermore, the pattern of concentration of chlorogenic acid was somewhat different from that of rutin. The amount of change in concentration of these allelochemicals is likely sufficient to have substantial effects on insect herbivores. We conclude that nighttime temperature affects concentration of allelochemicals in tomato plants in significant ways.
The rutin/beta-cyclodextrin interactions in fully aqueous solution: spectroscopic studies and biological assays.	In the present work the feasibility of beta-cyclodextrin complexation was explored, as a tool for improving the aqueous solubility and antioxidant efficacy of rutin. By means of 1H NMR, UV-vis and circular dichroism spectroscopy the single aromatic ring of rutin was found to be inserted into the beta-cyclodextrin cavity to form a 1:1 inclusion complex. The effect of beta-cyclodextrin on the spectral features of rutin was quantitatively investigated, in fully aqueous medium, by holding the concentration of the guest constant and varying the host concentration. The associated binding constants were estimated to be 142+/-20 and 153+/-20 M(-1), respectively, on the basis of the observed UV-vis absorption and circular dichroism intensities. The antioxidant activity of rutin was also investigated, as affected by molecular encapsulation within beta-cyclodextrin (batophenanthroline test; comet assay; lipid peroxidation); the inclusion complex revealed improved antioxidant efficacy that may be in part explained by an increased solubility in the biological moiety.
Influence of extraction parameters on the phytochemical characteristics of extracts from buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) herb.	In recent years, the interest in herbal medicinal products, especially in the field of dermatology and cosmetics, has risen enormously. Many plant-derived substances show photoprotective properties in terms of absorption of UV radiation and preventing photodamage to molecular structures of human skin. Modern phytopharmaceutics as well as phytocosmetics require standardized, defined extracts from the herbal matrix. Buckwheat herb is rich in flavonoids, which have been identified as potent antioxidants. Up to now, there have been no systematic investigations available concerning the extraction conditions for phenolic substances from buckwheat herb. In this paper, we report the influence of three extraction parameters, ethanol concentration, temperature, and extraction time, on the response variables extractable matter, antioxidant activity, and content of fagopyrin, rutin, and chlorogenic acid. Our results suggest that an extract with good antioxidant activity, a high content of phenolics, and a low content of the phototoxic fagopyrin can be yielded by agitated maceration with 30% ethanol at 60 degrees C for 2 h. Furthermore, there is good correlation between the antioxidant activity and the rutin content, whereas the extractable matter is not an appropriate parameter for extract quality. Huge differences in the content of rutin and chlorogenic acid when using herbal drugs from different suppliers confirm the demand of standardized procedures for the production of herbal drugs.
Effect of pectolytic enzyme preparations on the phenolic composition and antioxidant activity of asparagus juice.	Commercial pectolytic enzymes were investigated for their influence on phenolics and antioxidant activities of asparagus juice. The antioxidant activity of asparagus juice was analyzed according to 2,2'-diphenyl-l-picrylhydrazyl and 2,2'-azinobis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) methods. The enzymes, with the exception of pectinase from Rhizopus sp., contained rutinase, which hydrolyzed rutin to quercetin. Asparagus juice treated with Viscozyme had the highest quercetin content without exhibiting a significant increase in the antioxidant activity. For a pectinase from Aspergillus niger, the antioxidant activity of asparagus juice was markedly reduced. Caution should be paid in the selection of pectolytic enzyme preparations for production of antioxidant activity-rich juice.
Capillary electrophoretic analysis of flavonoids.	Combining the effects of electrophoresis and electroendosmosis, flavonoids were separated in less than ten minutes in a fused silica capillary tube with a borate buffer adjusted to pH 10. An increase in the concentration of borate from 0.1 to 0.2 M resulted in longer migration times due to a decrease in electroosmotic flow, but also in improved selectivity and higher resolution of flavonoids. The calibration curve of rutin showed a detection limit of 0.02 mg/mL and linearity over its pharmaceutical concentration range. Using an internal standard of known concentration, the content of rutin in a methanolic extract of Sambuci flos could be determined with a coefficient of variation as small as 3.8% by the molar ratio-peak area ratio method.
Isocratic RP-HPLC method for rutin determination in solid oral dosage forms.	A rapid and sensitive assay for quantitative determination of rutin in oral dosage forms based on isocratic reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) was developed and validated. Using a C(18) reverse-phase analytical column, the following conditions were chosen as optimal: mobile phase methanol-water 1:1 (v/v), pH 2.8 (adjusted with phosphoric acid), flow rate=1 mL min(-1) and temperature T=40.0 degrees C. Linearity was observed in the concentration range 8-120 microg mL(-1) with a correlation coefficient of 0.99982 and the limit of detection (LOD)=2.6 microg mL(-1), and limit of quantification (LOQ)=8.0 microg mL(-1). Intra- and inter-day precision were within acceptable limits. Robustness test indicated that the mobile phase composition and pH influence mainly the separation. The proposed method allowed direct determination of rutin in pharmaceutical dosage forms in the presence of excipients, but is not suitable for preparations where compounds structurally/chemically related to rutin may be present.
High-performance liquid chromatographic method for the quantification of phenolics in 'Chyavanprash' a potent Ayurvedic drug.	Quantification of bioactive principles through modern analytical tools is essential for establishing the authenticity, credibility, prescription and usage of Ayurvedic medicines/herbal formulations. 'Chyavanprash' is one of the oldest and most popular Ayurvedic preparations, used widely as a health promotive and disease preventive 'Rasayana' drug in India and elsewhere. The rejuvenating and tonic properties of 'Chavanprash' are considered mainly due to their antioxidant principles, which in turn is due to the presence of phenolic compounds. A simple high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method for the separation and quantitative determination of the major antioxidant compounds from 'Chyavanprash' has been developed. The use of Waters Symmetry column and an acidic mobile phase enabled the efficient separation of phenolic compounds (catechin, quercetin-3-O-rutinoside, syringic acid and gallic acid) within a 35 min analysis. Validation of the method was done with a view to demonstrate its selectivity, linearity, precision, accuracy and robustness. In addition optimization of the complete extraction of phenolic compounds were also studied.
Enzyme-catalyzed change of antioxidants content and antioxidant activity of asparagus juice.	A pectolytic enzyme preparation from Aspergillus niger (pectinase AN) decreased most rutin content and antioxidant activity of asparagus juice. To investigate the mechanism of such loss, we analyzed several possible related enzyme activities in pectinase AN. We found that the activity of pectinase AN to oxidize guaiacol had no significant difference with or without the presence of H2O2; thus it was laccase activity, not peroxidase (PO) activity, that pectinase AN contained. We did not find any polyphenol oxidase (PPO) activity in pectinase AN. Laccase in pectinase AN could be the major cause of loss of rutin and antioxidant activity of asparagus juice. When most laccase activity of pectinase AN was inactivated after heating at 70 degrees C for 1.5 min and incubated with asparagus juice, the loss rate of rutin was only 9% of that treated with unheated pectinase AN, and the antioxidant activity was even increased. Rhamnosidase activity was detected in pectinase AN and can change rutin in asparagus juice to quercetin-3-glucoside, which has higher antioxidant activity than rutin. This may explain the increase of antioxidant activity of asparagus juice treated with heated pectinase AN that still contained some rhamnosidase activity. The discovery of our research is helpful to produce juice with high antioxidant activity and high health benefits in the juice industry.
A new method for express analysis of flavonoid fraction in nephrophite plant extract and prediction of its antioxidant effects.	A new chromatographic procedure is proposed for rapid (35 min) complete fractionation of flavonoids in plant raw material; the method well discriminates between components with antioxidant activity (rutin, apigenin, quercetin, hesperidin). The method is based on reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography using ODS-S5CN carrier and linear 10-60% pyridine elution gradient.
Simultaneous determination of vitexin-2"-O-glucoside, vitexin-2"-O-rhamnoside, rutin, and hyperoside in the extract of hawthorn (Crataegus pinnatifida Bge.) leaves by RP-HPLC with ultraviolet photodiode array detection.	RP-HPLC with UV photodiode array detection (UV-DAD) was developed and validated for the simultaneous determination of vitexin-2"-O-glucoside, vitexin-2"-O-rhamnoside, rutin, and hyperoside in the extract of hawthorn (Crataegus pinnatifida Bge.) leaves. The analytes of interest were separated on a Diamonsil C18 column (250 x 4.6 mm id, 5 microm) with the mobile phase consisting of THF/ACN/methanol/ 0.05% phosphoric acid solution (pH 5.0) (18:1:1:80 v/vl/v). The flow rate was set at 1.0 mL/min and the eluent was detected at 340 nm for the four flavonoids. The method was linear over the studied range of 1.00-100 microg/mL for the four analytes of interest with the correlation coefficient for each analyte greater than 0.999. The LOD and LOQwere 0.03 and 0.10 microg/mL, 0.03 and 0.10 microg/mL, 0.05 and 0.15 pg/mL, 0.10 and 0.30 microg/mL for vitexin-2"-O-glucoside, vitexin-2"-0-rhamnoside, rutin, and hyperoside, respectively. The optimized method was successfully applied to the analysis of four important flavonoids in the extract of hawthorn leaves. The total amounts of the four flavonoids were 22.2, 62.3, 4.27, and 8.24 mg/g dry weight for vitexin-2"-O-glucoside, vitexin-2"-O-rhamnoside, rutin, and hyperoside in the extract of hawthorn leaves, respectively.
Identification of a new natural vasorelaxatant compound, (+)-osbeckic acid, from rutin-free tartary buckwheat extract.	The candidates responsible for vasorelaxation action of rutin-free tartary buckwheat extract (TBSP) were examined in this study. As a result of reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) separations, five prominent peaks in the acidic fraction of TBSP were obtained at 260 nm. Among the five collected peaks, we successfully identified four compounds by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and mass spectrometry (MS) measurements: (+)-osbeckic acid as a dimer ([M - H](-) m/z: 371.2 > 184.9 > 140.9), 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furoic acid, protocatechuic acid, and p-hydroxybenzoic acid. A vascular contractive measurement in 1.0 μM phenylephrine-contracted Sprague-Dawley rat thoracic aorta rings revealed that (+)-osbeckic acid dimer evoked a potent vasorelaxant effect with an EC50 value of 887 μM compared to other isolates (EC50: 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furoic acid, 3610 μM; protocatechuic acid, 2160 μM; p-hydroxybenzoic acid, no inhibition). Dimeric (+)-osbeckic acid was stable in solutions and at high temperatures, while its degraded peak on the HPLC chromatogram was observed when it was dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide. 
Development of a rapid HPLC-UV method for simultaneous quantification of protodioscin and rutin in white and green asparagus spears.	Asparagus (Asparagus officinalis L.) spears are rich in bioactive compounds such as protodioscin, a saponin, and rutin, a flavonoid. Protodioscin and rutin are routinely quantified separately, and an approach permitting simultaneous measurement would significantly improve speed of analysis. We have optimized an extraction procedure and modified a method of high-performance liquid chromatography by coupling to an ultraviolet detector to simultaneously analyze protodioscin and rutin in asparagus extracts. An acidic ethanol solvent was more efficient than methanol, acetonitrile, or water in coextraction of protodioscin and rutin. Protodioscin and rutin were detected at 210 nm, with retention times of 12.6 min and 7.9 min, respectively. The method was validated by high linear correlations between 3.13 and 1000.0 μg/mL for protodioscin (r(2)= 0.9999), and between 0.3 and 1087.5 μg/mL for rutin (r(2)= 0.9997). The limit(s) of detection and quantification for protodioscin were 1.6 μg/mL and 3.13 μg/mL, respectively, and for rutin 0.2 μg/mL and 0.3 μg/mL, respectively. White asparagus spears and the crown of the plants were revealed to be rich sources of protodioscin and contained 2.59 to 10.4 mg/g dry weight. Green asparagus spears, particularly the upper portion, were rich in rutin and contained between 1.51 and 7.29 mg/g dry weight.
Effects of bagging on volatiles and polyphenols in "Wanmi" peaches during endocarp hardening and final fruit rapid growth stages.	Fruits of the late-ripening peach cultivar "Wanmi" were bagged at the early period of fruit endocarp hardening, and the bags were removed 1 wk before maturity harvest. The effects of bagging on volatile compounds and polyphenols were studied. Total volatiles and the sum of C(6) compounds, esters from bagged fruits were significantly lower than from nonbagged fruits from the beginning of the final rapid fruit growth stage to maturity. As the most dominant compounds of C(6) compounds and esters, the lower contents of hexanal, trans-2-hexenal, hexyl acetate, cis-3-hexenyl acetate, and trans-2-hexenyl acetate attributed to the lower content of C(6) compounds and esters in bagged fruit. γ-Hexalactone and δ-decalactone were produced earlier in bagged fruits than in nonbagged ones, suggesting that bagging accelerates fruit maturity. Level of γ-decalactone in bagged fruits was significantly lower than in nonbagged fruits at 159 days after full blossom (DAFB), so did δ-decalactone at 166 DAFB. Bagging did not affect chlorogenic acid and catechol contents of either fruit peel or flesh, nor did it affect contents of keracyanin or quercetin-3-rutinoside in fruit flesh during fruit development. However, keracyanin and quercetin-3-rutinoside levels were significantly reduced in bagged fruit peels before ripening compared to nonbagged fruit peels. Considering the large changes in volatiles and polyphenols, the key stage for "Wanmi" fruit maturity was between 126 DAFB and 147 DAFB, about 1 mo ahead of maturity.
Optimisation of infrared-assisted extraction of rutin from crude Flos Sophorae Immaturus using response surface methodology and HPLC analysis.	Rutin, one of main constituents in Flos Sophorae Immaturus, has been proven to possess several pharmacological properties such as anti-oxidant, anti-platelet, anti-inflammatory effects and so on. However, optimisation of the extraction of rutin from Flos Sophorae Immaturus has rarely been reported. Thus, it is important to develop an effective method to obtain maximum yields of rutin from Flos Sophorae Immaturus.
Beneficial effects of the ethanol extract of Caesalpinia pyramidalis on the inflammatory response and abdominal hyperalgesia in rats with acute pancreatitis.	Caesalpinia pyramidalis Tul. (Fabaceae) is a plant found in the Northeast of Brazil that is popularly used to treat inflammation. Acute pancreatitis (AP) is an inflammatory disease for which abdominal pain is a relevant symptom. As there is no specific therapy for AP, we investigated the effect of the ethanol extract from the inner bark of C. pyramidalis (EECp) on the AP induced by common bile duct obstruction (CBDO) in rats.
Optimizing the models for rapid determination of chlorogenic acid, scopoletin and rutin in plant samples by near-infrared diffuse reflectance spectroscopy.	Polyphenols in plant samples have been extensively studied because phenolic compounds are ubiquitous in plants and can be used as antioxidants in promoting human health. A method for rapid determination of three phenolic compounds (chlorogenic acid, scopoletin and rutin) in plant samples using near-infrared diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (NIRDRS) is studied in this work. Partial least squares (PLS) regression was used for building the calibration models, and the effects of spectral preprocessing and variable selection on the models are investigated for optimization of the models. The results show that individual spectral preprocessing and variable selection has no or slight influence on the models, but the combination of the techniques can significantly improve the models. The combination of continuous wavelet transform (CWT) for removing the variant background, multiplicative scatter correction (MSC) for correcting the scattering effect and randomization test (RT) for selecting the informative variables was found to be the best way for building the optimal models. For validation of the models, the polyphenol contents in an independent sample set were predicted. The correlation coefficients between the predicted values and the contents determined by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis are as high as 0.964, 0.948 and 0.934 for chlorogenic acid, scopoletin and rutin, respectively. 
