PKCalpha mediates TGFbeta-induced growth inhibition of human keratinocytes via phosphorylation of S100C/A11.	Growth regulation of epithelial cells is of major concern because most human cancers arise from them. We demonstrated previously a novel signal pathway involving S100C/A11 for high Ca2+-induced growth inhibition of normal human keratinocytes (Sakaguchi, M., M. Miyazaki, M. Takaishi, Y. Sakaguchi, E. Makino, N. Kataoka, H. Yamada, M. Namba, and N.H. Huh. 2003. J. Cell Biol. 163:825-835). This paper addresses a question whether transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) shares the pathway with high Ca2+. On exposure of the cells to TGFbeta1, S100C/A11 was phosphorylated, bound to nucleolin, and transferred to the nucleus, resulting in induction of p21WAF1/CIP1 and p15INK4B through activation of Sp1. Protein kinase C alpha (PKCalpha) was shown to phosphorylate 10Thr of S100C/A11, which is a critical event for the signal transduction. The TGFbeta1-induced growth inhibition was almost completely mitigated when PKCalpha activity was blocked or when S100C/A11 was functionally sequestered. These results indicate that, in addition to the well-characterized Smad-mediated pathway, the PKCalpha-S100C/A11-mediated pathway is involved in and essential for the growth inhibition of normal human keratinocytes cells by TGFbeta1.
Effects of chronic administration with nilvadipine against immunohistochemical changes related to aging in the mouse hippocampus.	We investigated the effect of Ca2+ antagonist nilvadipine on age-related immunohistochemical alterations in ubiquitin and S100beta protein of the hippocampal CA1 sector in mice using 8-, 18-, 40-, and 59-week-old mice. No significant changes in the number of neuronal cells were observed in the hippocampal CA1 sector up to 59 weeks after birth. The administration of nilvadipine did not affect the number of the hippocampal CA1 cells of 40-week-old mice. Age-dependent increases in ubiquitin immunoreactivity were observed in the hippocampal CA1 neurons up to 59 weeks after birth. The administration of nilvadipine prevented dose-dependently the increases in the number of ubiquitin-immunoreactive neurons in the hippocampal CA1 sector of 40-week-old mice. S100,beta immunoreactivity was unchanged in the hippocampal CA1 sector up to 40 weeks after birth. In 59-week-old mice, the level of staining of S100beta-immunoreactive cells increased significantly in the hippocampal CA1 sector. The administration of nilvadipine decreased dose-dependently the number of S 100beta-immunoreactive cells in the hippocampal CA1 sector of 40-week-old mice. The present study demonstrates that age-related increases in ubiquitin system may play a pivotal role in protecting neuronal cell damage during aging. In contrast, our results suggest that expression of S 100beta protein in the hippocampal CA1 sector may play an exacerbating factor in some neuronal cells damaged by aging. Our results also demonstrate that nilvadipine, a dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blocker, can prevent dose-dependently the increases in the ubiquitin immunoreactive neurons and decrease the number of S100beta immunoreactive cells in the hippocampal CA1 neurons of aged mice. These results suggest that nilvadipine may offer a new approach for the treatment of neuronal dysfunction in aged humans.
Interferon-gamma-induced suppression of S100A4 transcription is mediated by the class II transactivator.	We have previously shown that interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) inhibits expression of the metastasis-promoting protein S100A4. In the present study, we further explore the mechanism behind the IFN-gamma-mediated effects on the human S100A4 promoter and demonstrate that IFN-gamma represses S100A4 promoter activity through induction of the class II transactivator (CIITA). The acidic domain in the N-terminal part of CIITA was crucial for the observed IFN-gamma-induced inhibition of S100A4 promoter activity, probably by binding the histone acetyltransferase CBP/p300. Importantly, overexpression of CIITA significantly reduced the expression of endogenous S100A4. Our data suggest a model where CIITA represses S100A4 transcription through sequestering of CBP/p300, thereby reducing the level of CBP/p300 at the S100A4 promoter, which in turn leads to inhibition of S100A4 transcription.
Decoy-DNA against special AT-rich sequence binding protein 1 inhibits the growth and invasive ability of human breast cancer.	"Triple-negative" (TN) breast cancers, which are characterized by estrogen receptor (-), progesterone receptor (-), and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (-), are typically associated with poor prognosis because of their aggressive tumor phenotypes. In recent years, the number of patients with breast cancers has remarkably increased, but there are only few available drugs for treatment of TN breast cancers. The development of novel drugs targeting TN breast cancer is urgently required. In the present study, we focused on the function of special AT-rich sequence binding protein 1 (SATB1) as a target molecule for the treatment of TN breast cancers. By recruiting chromatin remodeling enzymes and transcriptional factors, SATB1 regulates the expression of >1,000 genes related to cell growth and translocation. We synthesized a decoy DNA against SATB1, including the recognition sequence of SATB1. We examined the inhibitory effects of the decoy DNAs on cellular proliferation of a TN metastatic breast cancer cell line (MDA-MB-231). SATB1-decoy DNA inhibited the proliferation of MDA-MB-231 cells. Especially, it was significant that SATB1-decoy DNA drastically reduced the invasive and metastatic capacity of MBA-MB-231 cells. Further, in the case of MCF7 cells (SATB1-negative breast cancer cell line), SATB1-decoy DNA did not exhibit any inhibitory effect. These data suggest that SATB1-decoy DNA may be an effective candidate for use as a molecular-targeting drug for treatment of TN breast cancer.
