Categorizing mistaken false positives in regulation of human and environmental health.	One of the concerns often voiced by critics of the precautionary principle is that a widespread regulatory application of the principle will lead to a large number of false positives (i.e., over-regulation of minor risks and regulation of nonexisting risks). The present article proposes a general definition of a regulatory false positive, and seeks to identify case studies that can be considered authentic regulatory false positives. Through a comprehensive review of the science policy literature for proclaimed false positives and interviews with authorities on regulation and the precautionary principle we identified 88 cases. Following a detailed analysis of these cases, we found that few of the cases mentioned in the literature can be considered to be authentic false positives. As a result, we have developed a number of different categories for these cases of "mistaken false positives," including: real risks, "The jury is still out," nonregulated proclaimed risks, "Too narrow a definition of risk," and risk-risk tradeoffs. These categories are defined and examples are presented in order to illustrate their key characteristics. On the basis of our analysis, we were able to identify only four cases that could be defined as regulatory false positives in the light of today's knowledge and recognized uncertainty: the Southern Corn Leaf Blight, the Swine Flu, Saccharin, and Food Irradiation in relation to consumer health. We conclude that concerns about false positives do not represent a reasonable argument against future application of the precautionary principle.
Effects of in utero and postnatal sodium saccharin exposure on the nutritional status of the young rat. I. Effects at 30 days post-birth.	The incidence of sodium saccharin (NaS)-associated bladder tumours in male rats increases when exposure to high doses begins in utero or at birth compared with treatment after weaning. The present experiment evaluated the effect of NaS exposure on selected physiological parameters in young second generation rats. 6-wk-old male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were placed on either a diet supplemented with 7.5% NaS or an untreated diet, and mated 4-6 wk later. Treatment was continued through lactation and the offspring were weaned on to the same diet. Body weights were significantly depressed in NaS-treated litters by 4 days after birth, and were 35% lower than controls by 30 days when the animals were killed. NaS treatment of the offspring was associated with an increase in faecal moisture content and caecal content weight, changes in several urinary analytes, a 50% increase in serum cholesterol a 10-fold increase in serum triglycerides and decreases in serum and hepatic vitamins. In addition, NaS-treated dams and pups were anaemic. Relatively few differences between males and females were noted, but significant inter-litter differences existed. The numerous physiological changes indicate that 7.5% dietary NaS exceeds the maximum tolerated dose for weanling rats.
Effects of in utero and postnatal sodium saccharin exposure on the nutritional status of the young rat. II. Dose response and reversibility.	A previous study in our laboratory demonstrated that 30-day-old Sprague-Dawley rats exposed to 7.5% sodium saccharin (NaS) since conception differ from untreated rats in several physiological parameters. In the present study, to determine the dose response of the changes associated with NaS treatment, animals were evaluated at 30 days post-birth, after treatment with dietary levels of 0, 1, 3 or 7.5% NaS since conception. Most physiological consequences of NaS treatment in the weanling rat, including anaemia and reductions in serum folate and vitamin A concentrations, were dose dependent. Serum vitamin E, cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations were decreased at the two lower doses of NaS but were significantly increased with 7.5% NaS. The no-effect level (NOEL) was similar for physiological effects and for bladder tumour production in two-generation studies (1% NaS in the diet). The reversibility of the effects of 7.5% NaS was examined in 90-day-old rats. The increases in lipids and vitamin E were reversible. Although values for haematological parameters and serum vitamin A remained significantly reduced at 90 days, changes were less severe than at 30 days. Histological examinations revealed that the effects of 7.5% dietary NaS on the bladder were negligible, indicating that the physiological changes observed in the young rat are probably not directly related to the production of bladder tumours.
Comparative bladder tumor promoting activity of sodium saccharin, sodium ascorbate, related acids, and calcium salts in rats.	Sodium saccharin and sodium ascorbate are known to promote urinary bladder carcinogenesis in rats following initiation with N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) or N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl) nitrosamine. Sodium salts of other organic acids have also been shown to be bladder tumor promoters. In addition, these substances increase urothelial proliferation in short term assays in rats when fed at high doses. When they have been tested, the acid forms of these salts are without either promoting or cell proliferative inducing activity. The following experiment was designed to compare the tumor promoting activity of various forms of saccharin and to evaluate the role in promotion of urinary sodium, calcium, and pH as well as other factors. Twenty groups of 40 male F344 rats, 5 weeks of age, were fed either FANFT or control diet during a 6-week initiation phase followed by feeding of a test compound for 72 weeks in the second phase. The chemicals were administered to the first 18 groups in Agway Prolab 3200 diet and the last 2 groups were fed NIH-07 diet. The treatments were as follows: (a) FANFT----5% sodium saccharin (NaS); (b) FANFT----3% NaS; (c) FANFT----5.2% calcium saccharin (CaS); (d) FANFT----3.12% CaS; (e) FANFT----4.21% acid saccharin (S); (f) FANFT----2.53% S; (g) FANFT----5% sodium ascorbate; (h) FANFT----4.44% ascorbic acid; (i) FANFT----5% NaS plus 1.15% CaCO3; (j) FANFT----5.2% CaS plus 1.34% NaCl; (k) FANFT----5% NaS plus 1.23% NH4Cl; (l) FANFT----1.15% CaCO3; (m) FANFT----1.34% NaCl; (n) FANFT----control; (o) control----5% NaS; (p) control----5.2% CaS; (q) control----4.21% S; (r) Control----control; (s) FANFT----5% NaS (NIH-07 diet); (t) FANFT----control (NIH-07 diet). NaS, CaS and S without prior FANFT administration were without tumorigenic activity. NaS was found to have tumor promoting activity, showing a positive response at the 5 and 3% dose levels, with significantly greater activity at the higher dose. CaS had slight tumor promoting activity but without a dose response, and S showed no tumor promoting activity. In addition, NaCl showed weak tumor promoting activity, but CaCO3 was without activity. NH4Cl completely inhibited the tumor promoting activity of NaS when concurrently administered with it. NaCl administered with CaS or CaCO3 administered with NaS showed activity similar to that of NaS. Sodium ascorbate was also shown to have tumor promoting activity, with slightly less activity than NaS. Ascorbic acid showed no tumor promoting activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Lack of bladder tumor promoting activity in rats fed sodium saccharin in AIN-76A diet.	Sodium saccharin (NaSac) fed as 5% of Prolab diet promotes bladder tumor carcinogenesis in male F344 rats initiated with N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) fed as 0.2% of the diet for 4 weeks. NaSac also increases urothelial proliferation if fed for short periods in Prolab diet, but no increased proliferation is seen if it is fed for up to 10 weeks in AIN-76A semisynthetic diet, even at levels as high as 7.5% of the diet. To determine whether NaSac as part of an AIN-76A diet has promoting activity, groups of approximately 30 male, 5-week-old F344 rats were fed AIN-76A diet containing (a) 0.2% FANFT for 4 weeks followed by 5% NaSac for 100 weeks; (b) 0.2% FANFT followed by control diet; or (c) control diet followed by 5% NaSac. Bladder tumor incidences were 10, 23, and 0%, respectively. When fed in Prolab diet, 0.2% FANFT for 4 weeks followed by NaSac or control diet for 100 weeks resulted in bladder tumor incidences of 40 and 17%, respectively. Groups of rats fed 0.1 or 0.2% FANFT for 1 or 2 weeks followed by 5% NaSac or control diet for 100 weeks had bladder tumor incidences of 0 to 7%. These data demonstrate that NaSac does not promote bladder cancer in male rats if fed in AIN-76A diet. Other studies suggest that this is due to the low urinary pH in rats fed AIN-76A diet.
In vitro transformation of rat bladder epithelium by 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)thiazole.	To establish a rat urinary bladder carcinogenesis model in vitro, primary rat bladder epithelial cells were grown in media containing 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)thiazole (ANFT), the water-soluble metabolite of N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]-formamide (FANFT), for 4 weeks followed by long-term (4-7 months) exposure to control medium, sodium saccharin (NaS), or urea. Another set of cultures were exposed to ANFT, NaS and urea simultaneously. Several phenotypic changes were observed in the chemically exposed cell cultures, namely differences in cell morphology, increased growth rate and the ability to grow on plastic instead of rat-tail collagen support. All of the chemically exposed cultures were anchorage independent except one of those treated with NaS. The ANFT-treated cells followed by control medium or urea and cells treated with ANFT, NaS and urea were tumorigenic when transplanted to nude mice, whereas NaS or ANFT followed by NaS treatment were not. The tumors were carcinomas and their epithelial differentiation was verified by strong positive staining for cytokeratin. These studies demonstrate the urothelial transforming capability of ANFT in cell culture without the necessity for a long exposure to a secondary chemical.
Effect of saccharin on albino rats' blood indices and the therapeutic action of vitamins C and E.	The present work aimed to study some blood indices of rats as affected by saccharin and the therapeutic action of vitamins C and E. The used adult female Rattus norvegicus albino rats in the present study were weighing 100-120 g. Administration of saccharin at a dose of 35 mg kg⁻¹ body weight (b.wt.) day⁻¹ for 35 days significantly decreased serum glucose, triglycerides, cholesterol, total protein and albumin values. These decrements were by 20.16%, 22.76%, 44.92%, 20.16% and 40.44%, respectively, compared to control level (p value < 0.01). But it increased levels of kidney function indices. The effect of saccharin was more pronounced on creatinine. Activities of Alanine aminotranferease (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) increased significantly following saccharin treatment to rats. Concerning hematoligical parameters, the more obvious changes were observed in the increment of white blood cell (WBC), mean corpuscular volume (MCV) and platelets (PLT) and the decrease in hematocrit, hemoglobin (Hb) and red blood cells (RBCs) count in response to the administration of saccharin. In general, vitamin C or E (150 mg kg⁻¹ b.wt. day⁻¹ for 35 days) was able to reduce the effects of saccharin intake. Both vitamins, however, generally have beneficial effects in reducing the changes in the studied parameters.
Effects of treatment with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea, artificial sweeteners, and cyclophosphamide on adult rat urinary bladder in vitro.	The effect of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU), sodium saccharin, sodium cyclamate and cyclophosphamide on rat bladder explants in vitro was studied. MNU administered as a single dose or in multiple treatments induced concentration-dependent changes in urothelial ultrastructure and cell surface topography. In a single treatment protocol, extensive cytotoxicity was observed in both the urothelium and stroma at concentrations of 500 to 1000 micrograms/ml, establishing a toxic threshold within this range. In a multiple treatment protocol, repeated doses of low concentrations of carcinogen (7 or 8 x 50 micrograms/ml, 6 x 100 micrograms/ml) induced hyperplastic and dysplastic changes in the urothelium with no cytotoxicity, but cytotoxic effects were observed following treatments of 4 x 200 micrograms/ml or 2 x 400 micrograms/ml. Sodium saccharin, sodium cyclamate, and cyclophosphamide induced changes in urothelial cell surface topography consistent with hyperplasia and preneoplasia. Prolonged exposure to saccharin or cyclamate followed by a single dose of MNU elicited more extensive abnormalities in the urothelium than either saccharin or cyclamate alone, suggesting that these artificial sweeteners have initiating activity in a multistage process. The ultrastructural changes induced by in vitro treatment showed a good correlation with the pathological changes observed in vivo in rats treated with MNU or fed either with saccharin or cyclamate.
Effect of dietary carbohydrate type and content on the response of male rats to dietary sodium saccharin.	The role of dietary carbohydrate composition and concentration in the response of male rats to sodium saccharin (NaS) was ascertained by comparing the response to 5% dietary NaS in rats given diets containing 65% starch, 50% sucrose together with 15% starch, 65% glucose, or 3% sucrose. NaS induced similar levels of caecal enlargement and increases in urine volume and bladder mass when given with any of the three forms of carbohydrate at 65% in the diet. However with the 3% sucrose diet, NaS caused a lesser caecal enlargement and no increase in urine volume or bladder mass. These findings suggest that NaS not only inhibits saccharide hydrolysis but also inhibits glucose transport. The significance of these findings in relation to NaS-associated bladder tumours is discussed.
Clastogenicity in vitro of the Na, K, Ca and Mg salts of saccharin; and of magnesium chloride; consideration of significance.	The sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium salts of saccharin, and magnesium chloride, have been shown to be clastogenic to Chinese hamster lung (CHL) fibroblasts in vitro, but only at elevated dose levels (8-16 mg/ml). Saccharin acid was inactive to the limits of its solubility (4 mg/ml). When the data are expressed in terms of ionic concentration, each salt showed a similar clastogenic potency. This suggests that ionic effects induced by these salts in the assay medium may be the critical determinant of the clastogenic effects seen, rather than that the saccharin moiety presents a genotoxic insult to the chromosomes of the cells. The metal-chelating agents EDTA and EGTA were non-clastogenic, but the disodium salt of EDTA showed weak activity prior to toxicity at 0.5 mg/ml. The absence of a clastogenic response for the salts of saccharin at dose levels lower than 4 mg/ml is discussed within the context of the threshold-dependent tumour-promoting activity of high dose levels of sodium saccharin to the bladder of male rats. The doubtful value of conducting in vitro clastogenicity studies at dose levels greater than 10(-2) M is discussed.
Enhancement of sister-chromatid exchanges by tumour promoters.	The effect of the tumour promoters TPA, phenobarbitone and saccharin on the production of sister-chromatid exchanges (SCE) was studied. TPA produced a small but significant increase of SCE in Chinese hamster cell lines V-79 and CHO, and in a hybrid clone formed by fusion of CHO with rat liver epithelial cells. The enhancement of SCE by TPA was not affected by the type of culture medium, heat-inactivated bovine serum, or the batch of TPA. In the presence of exogenous L-cysteine the enhancement of SCE was reduced. TPA also increase the uptake of 2-deoxyglucose by the cells, to an extent similar to that of the SCE enhancement. This enhancement of SCE by TPA may be explained partly through the formation of free radicals, and partly through alterations in the cell-surface membrane and/or a transient delay in the cell-cycle progression. The other tumour promoters, phenobarbitone and saccharin, also enhanced both SCE and the uptake of 2-deoxyglucose in V-79 cells.
Effect of dose of sodium saccharin on the induction of rat urinary bladder proliferation.	The effect of sodium saccharin fed to male F344 rats at levels of 5.0, 2.5, 1.0, 0.5, and 0.1% of the diet for 10 weeks was evaluated by autoradiography and scanning electron microscopy. A dose response was evident with both techniques. The labeling index was statistically significantly elevated at all doses above 0.1%. As observed by scanning electron microscopy, the number of foci containing ropy microridges or uniform microvilli was elevated at doses of 1.0, 2.5, and 5.0% of the diet, and pleomorphic microvilli were observed at the two highest doses.
Effects of sodium ascorbate, sodium saccharin and ammonium chloride on the male rat urinary bladder.	Sodium saccharin administered at high doses to male rats beginning after 5 weeks of age produces mild urothelial hyperplasia but does not result in a significant increase in incidence of bladder cancer unless it is administered after an initiating agent. However, if it is administered in a two-generation bioassay, a significant incidence of bladder tumors is produced. The hyperplastic and tumorigenic effects are inhibited by co-administration with high doses of NH4Cl. The present experiment was designed to evaluate the effects of another sodium salt, sodium ascorbate, administered through the neonatal time period. Sodium saccharin administered as 5% of the diet produced urothelial hyperplasia and increased labeling index, and this was inhibited by co-administration with 1.23% NH4Cl. Four doses of sodium ascorbate was evaluated. The lowest dose, 0.91%, was without effect on the urinary tract. A slight effect (not statistically significant) was observed at a dose of 2.73%, and a significant proliferative response was detected at 4.56 and 6.84%. Recent studies suggest that a calcium phosphate-containing amorphous precipitate forms in the urine of rats fed high doses of sodium saccharin, producing cytotoxicity of the urothelium and consequent regenerative hyperplasia. This precipitate was observed in the present experiment in the rats administered the high dose of sodium saccharin or the higher doses of sodium ascorbate. Formation of this precipitate and induction of urothelial proliferation were inhibited by co-administration of NH4Cl, but somewhat higher doses of ammonium chloride were required for doses of sodium ascorbate compared to sodium saccharin. These results demonstrate that sodium ascorbate administered through the neonatal time period of the male rat produces urothelial hyperplasia in the dose responsive manner, with a no-effect level of 0.91% of the diet. The formation of the calcium phosphate-containing amorphous precipitate and urothelial proliferation were inhibited by co-administration with NH4Cl.
The importance of synergy between weak carcinogens in the induction of bladder cancer in experimental animals and humans.	It is now well established that the interaction of multiple environmental factors may increase the incidence of some human cancers more than exposure to a single carcinogen. With an in vivo experimental rat model, we have demonstrated a synergistic effect in bladder carcinogenesis between a subcarcinogenic dose of the strong bladder carcinogen, N-methyl-N-nitrosourea, and saccharin- or cyclamate-containing diets. If these artificial sweeteners are capable of interacting with other environmental bladder carcinogens, their potential for increasing the incidence of human bladder cancer is greater than many more potent chemical carcinogens, because of their wide distribution as food additives to all sections of the population. Retrospective epidemiology shows no evidence of such risk from saccharin at current levels of consumption. No comparable studies are available for cyclamate, which was consumed in greater quantities but for relatively few years. It is emphasized that it is possible for interaction between multiple factors to contribute to the incidence of human bladder cancer as it does in other human organs and in other animal species.
Extensive handling of rats leads to mild urinary bladder hyperplasia.	The urinary and urothelial effects of the frequent handling necessary for obtaining fresh-voided urine specimens were evaluated in 5-wk-old male F-344 rats fed control diet or diet containing 7.5% sodium saccharin. Frequent handling consisted of holding rats by the back of the neck in a position to obtain fresh-voided urine directly into centrifuge tubes 3 times per week for 10 weeks, whereas seldomly handled control rats received this treatment only twice during the entire 10 weeks. The urothelium of frequently handled rats fed control diet showed superficial necrosis and regenerative hyperplasia as observed by light and scanning electron microscopy. These changes were not observed in rats fed control diet that were seldomly handled. The necrosis and hyperplasia were not as pronounced in frequently handled rats fed control diet as in seldomly handled, sodium-saccharin-treated rats, but handling also potentiated the severity of the changes produced by sodium saccharin feeding. The urothelial exfoliation and consequent regenerative hyperplasia are likely secondary effects of stress.
