The role of conformational flexibility in prion propagation and maintenance for Sup35p.	The [PSI(+)] factor of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a protein-based genetic element (prion) comprised of a heritable altered conformation of the cytosolic translation termination factor Sup35p. In vitro, the prion-determining region (NM) of Sup35p undergoes conformational conversion from a highly flexible soluble state to structured amyloid fibers, with a rate that is greatly accelerated by preformed NM fiber nuclei. Nucleated conformational conversion is the molecular basis of the genetic inheritance of [PSI(+)] and provides a new model for studying amyloidogenesis. Here we investigate the importance of structure and structural flexibility in soluble NM. Elevated temperatures, chemical chaperones and certain mutations in NM increase or change its structural content and inhibit or enhance nucleated conformational conversion. We propose that the structural flexibility of NM is particularly suited to allowing heritable protein-based changes in cellular behavior.
XMog1, a nuclear ran-binding protein in Xenopus, is a functional homologue of Schizosaccharomyces pombe mog1p that co-operates with RanBP1 to control generation of Ran-GTP.	Ran is a multifunctional small GTPase of the Ras superfamily that plays roles in nucleocytoplasmic transport, mitotic spindle assembly and nuclear envelope formation. By screening a Xenopus oocyte cDNA library for Ran-GTP-binding proteins using the two-hybrid system of co-expression in yeast, we identified XMog1, a 20.4 kDa polypeptide related to Mog1p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and similar gene products in Schizosaccharomyces pombe, Arabidopsis and mammals. We show that cDNAs encoding XMog1 and S. cerevisiae Mog1p rescue the growth defect of S. pombe cells lacking mog1, demonstrating conservation of their functions. In Xenopus somatic cells and transfected mammalian cells, XMogl is localised to the nucleus. XMog1 alone does not stimulate Ran GTPase activity or nucleotide exchange, but causes nucleotide release from Ran-GTP and forms a complex with nucleotide-free Ran. However, in combination with Ran-binding protein 1 (RanBP1), XMog1 promotes the release of GDP and the selective binding of GTP to Ran. XMog1 and RanBP1 also promote selective GTP loading onto Ran catalysed by the nuclear guanine nucleotide exchange factor, RCC1. We propose that Mog1-related proteins, together with RanBP1, facilitate the generation of Ran-GTP from Ran-GDP in the nucleus.
Evolution of the Rab family of small GTP-binding proteins.	Rab proteins are small GTP-binding proteins that form the largest family within the Ras superfamily. Rab proteins regulate vesicular trafficking pathways, behaving as membrane-associated molecular switches. Here, we have identified the complete Rab families in the Caenorhabditis elegans (29 members), Drosophila melanogaster (29), Homo sapiens (60) and Arabidopsis thaliana (57), and we defined criteria for annotation of this protein family in each organism. We studied sequence conservation patterns and observed that the RabF motifs and the RabSF regions previously described in mammalian Rabs are conserved across species. This is consistent with conserved recognition mechanisms by general regulators and specific effectors. We used phylogenetic analysis and other approaches to reconstruct the multiplication of the Rab family and observed that this family shows a strict phylogeny of function as opposed to a phylogeny of species. Furthermore, we observed that Rabs co-segregating in phylogenetic trees show a pattern of similar cellular localisation and/or function. Therefore, animal and fungi Rab proteins can be grouped in "Rab functional groups" according to their segregating patterns in phylogenetic trees. These functional groups reflect similarity of sequence, localisation and/or function, and may also represent shared ancestry. Rab functional groups can help the understanding of the functional evolution of the Rab family in particular and vesicular transport in general, and may be used to predict general functions for novel Rab sequences.
Autophagy and the cytoplasm to vacuole targeting pathway both require Aut10p.	We here report the identification of AUT10 as a novel gene required for both the cytoplasm to vacuole targeting of proaminopeptidase I and starvation-induced autophagy. aut10Delta cells are impaired in maturation of proaminopeptidase I under starvation and non-starvation conditions. A lack of Aut10p causes a defect in autophagy prior to vacuolar uptake of autophagosomes. Homozygous aut10Delta diploids do not sporulate. Vacuolar acidification indicated by accumulation of quinacrine is normal in aut10Delta cells and mature vacuolar proteinases are present. A biologically active Ha-tagged Aut10p, chromosomally expressed from its endogenous promoter, localizes in indirect immunofluorescence microscopy in the cytosol and on granulated structures, which appear clustered around the vacuolar membrane. This localization differs from known autophagy proteins.
Mpe1, a zinc knuckle protein, is an essential component of yeast cleavage and polyadenylation factor required for the cleavage and polyadenylation of mRNA.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, in vitro mRNA cleavage and polyadenylation require the poly(A) binding protein, Pab1p, and two multiprotein complexes: CFI (cleavage factor I) and CPF (cleavage and polyadenylation factor). We characterized a novel essential gene, MPE1 (YKL059c), which interacts genetically with the PCF11 gene encoding a subunit of CFI. Mpe1p is an evolutionarily conserved protein, a homolog of which is encoded by the human genome. The protein sequence contains a putative RNA-binding zinc knuckle motif. MPE1 is implicated in the choice of ACT1 mRNA polyadenylation site in vivo. Extracts from a conditional mutant, mpe1-1, or from a wild-type extract immunoneutralized for Mpe1p are defective in 3'-end processing. We used the tandem affinity purification (TAP) method on strains TAP-tagged for Mpe1p or Pfs2p to show that Mpe1p, like Pfs2p, is an integral subunit of CPF. Nevertheless a stable CPF, devoid of Mpe1p, was purified from the mpe1-1 mutant strain, showing that Mpe1p is not directly involved in the stability of this complex. Consistently, Mpe1p is also not necessary for the processive polyadenylation, nonspecific for the genuine pre-mRNA 3' end, displayed by the CPF alone. However, a reconstituted assay with purified CFI, CPF, and the recombinant Pab1p showed that Mpe1p is strictly required for the specific cleavage and polyadenylation of pre-mRNA. These results show that Mpe1p plays a crucial role in 3' end formation probably by promoting the specific link between the CFI/CPF complex and pre-mRNA.
An N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase of the Golgi apparatus of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae that can modify N-linked glycans.	The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is widely regarded as being only capable of producing N-linked glycans with high-mannose structures. To investigate the glycan structures made in different mutant strains, we made use of a reporter protein consisting of a version of hen egg lysozyme that contains a single site for N-linked glycosylation. Mass spectrometry analysis of the attached glycans revealed that a large proportion contained an unexpected extra mass corresponding to a single N-acetylhexosamine residue. In addition, the glycosylated lysozyme was recognized by an N-acetylglucosamine specific lectin. The genome of S. cerevisiae contains an uncharacterized open reading frame, YOR320c, that is related to a known N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase. Deletion of this ORF resulted in the disappearance of the extra mass on the N-linked glycans and loss of lectin binding. We show that the protein encoded by YOR320c (which we term Gnt1p) is localized to the Golgi apparatus and has GlcNAc-transferase activity in vitro. The physiological role of Gnt1p is unclear because mutants lacking the protein show no obvious growth or cell wall defects. Nonetheless, these results indicate that heterologous glycoproteins expressed in yeast can receive N-glycans with structures other than high mannose. In addition, they indicate that the lumen of the yeast Golgi contains UDP-GlcNAc, which may facilitate reconstitution of higher eukaryotic N-glycan processing.
Gbetagamma recruits Rho1 to the site of polarized growth during mating in budding yeast.	In mating mixtures of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, cells polarize their growth toward their conjugation partners along a pheromone gradient. This chemotropic phenomenon is mediated by structural proteins such as Far1 and Bem1 and by signaling proteins such as Cdc24, Cdc42, and Gbetagamma. The Gbetagamma subunit is thought to provide a positional cue that recruits the polarity establishment proteins, and thereby induces polarization of the actin cytoskeleton. We identified RHO1 in a screen for allele-specific high-copy suppressors of Gbetagamma overexpression, suggesting that Rho1 binds Gbetagamma in vivo. Inactivation of Rho1 GTPase activity augmented the rescue phenotype, suggesting that it is the activated form of Rho1 that binds Gbetagamma. We also found, in a pull-down assay, that Rho1 associates with GST-Ste4 and that Rho1 is localized to the neck and tip of mating projections. Moreover, a mutation in STE4 that disrupts Gbetagamma-Rho1 interaction reduces the projection tip localization of Rho1 and compromises the integrity of pheromone-treated cells deficient in Rho1 activity. In addition to its roles as a positive regulator of 1,3-beta-glucan synthase and of the cell integrity MAP kinase cascade, it was recently shown that Rho1 is necessary for the formation of mating projections. Together, these results suggest that Gbetagamma recruits Rho1 to the site of polarized growth during mating.
Subunit rotation of vacuolar-type proton pumping ATPase: relative rotation of the G and C subunits.	Vacuolar-type ATPases V1V0 (V-ATPases) are found ubiquitously in the endomembrane organelles of eukaryotic cells. In this study, we genetically introduced a His tag and a biotin tag onto the c and G subunits, respectively, of Saccharomyces cerevisiae V-ATPase. Using this engineered enzyme, we observed directly the continuous counter-clockwise rotation of an actin filament attached to the G subunit when the enzyme was immobilized on a glass surface through the c subunit. V-ATPase generated essentially the same torque as the F-ATPase (ATP synthase). The rotation was inhibited by concanamycin and nitrate but not by azide. These results demonstrated that the V- and F-ATPase carry out a common rotational catalysis.
Role of yeast glutaredoxins as glutathione S-transferases.	The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae contains two glutaredoxins, encoded by GRX1 and GRX2, that are required for resistance to reactive oxygen species. We recently reported that Grx1 is active as a glutathione peroxidase and can directly reduce hydroperoxides (Collinson, E. J., Wheeler, G. L., Garrido, E. O., Avery, A. M., Avery, S. V., and Grant, C. M. (2002) J. Biol. Chem. 277, 16712-16717). We now show that Grx2 is also a general hydroperoxidase, and kinetic data indicate that both enzymes have a similar pattern of activity, which is highest with hydrogen peroxide, followed by cumene hydroperoxide and tert-butyl hydroperoxide. Furthermore, both Grx1 and Grx2 are shown be active as glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), and their activity with model substrates such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is similar to their activity with hydroperoxides. Analysis of the Grx1 active site residues shows that Cys-27, but not Cys-30, is required for both the peroxidase and transferase activities, indicating that these reactions proceed via a monothiol mechanism. Deletion analysis shows that Grx1 and Grx2 have an overlapping function with yeast GSTs, encoded by GTT1 and GTT2, and are responsible for the majority of cellular GST activity. In addition, multiple mutants lacking GRX1, GRX2, GTT1, and GTT2 show increased sensitivity to stress conditions, including exposure to xenobiotics, heat, and oxidants. In summary, glutaredoxins are multifunctional enzymes with oxidoreductase, peroxidase, and GST activity, and are therefore ideally suited to detoxify the wide range of xenobiotics and oxidants that can be generated during diverse stress conditions.
Rio2p, an evolutionarily conserved, low abundant protein kinase essential for processing of 20 S Pre-rRNA in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rio2p (encoded by open reading frame Ynl207w) is an essential protein of unknown function that displays significant sequence similarity to Rio1p/Rrp10p. The latter was recently shown to be an evolutionarily conserved, predominantly cytoplasmic serine/threonine kinase whose presence is required for the final cleavage at site D that converts 20 S pre-rRNA into mature 18 S rRNA. A data base search identified homologs of Rio2p in a wide variety of eukaryotes and Archaea. Detailed sequence comparison and in vitro kinase assays using recombinant protein demonstrated that Rio2p defines a subfamily of protein kinases related to, but both structurally and functionally distinct from, the one defined by Rio1p. Failure to deplete Rio2p in cells containing a GAL-rio2 gene and direct analysis of Rio2p levels by Western blotting indicated the protein to be low abundant. Using a GAL-rio2 gene carrying a point mutation that reduces the kinase activity, we found that depletion of this mutant protein blocked production of 18 S rRNA due to inhibition of the cleavage of cytoplasmic 20 S pre-rRNA at site D. Production of the large subunit rRNAs was not affected. Thus, Rio2p is the second protein kinase that is essential for cleavage at site D and the first in which the processing defect can be linked to its enzymatic activity. Contrary to Rio1p/Rrp10p, however, Rio2p appears to be localized predominantly in the nucleus.
The dynamic dimerization of the yeast ADP/ATP carrier in the inner mitochondrial membrane is affected by conserved cysteine residues.	The ADP/ATP carrier (AAC) that facilitates the translocation of ATP made in mitochondria is inserted at the inner mitochondrial membrane by the TIM10-TIM22 protein import system. Here we addressed the state of the AAC precursor during insertion (stage IV of import) and identified residues of the carrier important for dimerization. By a combination of (i) import of a mix of His-tagged and untagged versions of AAC either 35S-labeled or unlabeled, (ii) import of a tandem covalent dimer AAC into wild-type mitochondria, and (iii) import of monomeric AAC into mitochondria expressing only the tandem covalent dimer AAC, we found that the stage IV intermediate is a monomer, and this stage is probably the rate-limiting step of insertion in the membrane. Subsequent dimerization occurs extremely rapidly (within less than a minute). The incoming monomer dimerizes with monomeric endogenous AAC suggesting that the AAC dimer is very dynamic. Conserved Cys residues were found not to affect insertion significantly, but they are crucial for the dimerization process to obtain a functional carrier.
The ATP hydrolysis cycle of the nucleotide-binding domain of the mitochondrial ATP-binding cassette transporter Mdl1p.	The ABC transporter Mdl1p, a structural and functional homologue of the transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP) plays an important role in intracellular peptide transport from the mitochondrial matrix of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. To characterize the ATP hydrolysis cycle of Mdl1p, the nucleotide-binding domain (NBD) was overexpressed in Escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity. The isolated NBD was active in ATP binding and hydrolysis with a turnover of 25 ATP per minute and a Km of 0.6 mm and did not show cooperativity in ATPase activity. However, the ATPase activity was non-linearly dependent on protein concentration (Hill coefficient of 1.7), indicating that the functional state is a dimer. Dimeric catalytic transition states could be trapped either by incubation with orthovanadate or beryllium fluoride, or by mutagenesis of the NBD. The nucleotide composition of trapped intermediate states was determined using [alpha-32P]ATP and [gamma-32P]ATP. Three different dimeric intermediate states were isolated, containing either two ATPs, one ATP and one ADP, or two ADPs. Based on these experiments, it was shown that: (i) ATP binding to two NBDs induces dimerization, (ii) in all isolated dimeric states, two nucleotides are present, (iii) phosphate can dissociate from the dimer, (iv) both nucleotides are hydrolyzed, and (v) hydrolysis occurs in a sequential mode. Based on these data, we propose a processive-clamp model for the catalytic cycle in which association and dissociation of the NBDs depends on the status of bound nucleotides.
Calcium-regulated interaction of Sgt1 with S100A6 (calcyclin) and other S100 proteins.	S100A6 (calcyclin), a small calcium-binding protein from the S100 family, interacts with several target proteins in a calcium-regulated manner. One target is Calcyclin-Binding Protein/Siah-1-Interacting Protein (CacyBP/SIP), a component of a novel pathway of beta-catenin ubiquitination. A recently discovered yeast homolog of CacyBP/SIP, Sgt1, associates with Skp1 and regulates its function in the Skp1/Cullin1/F-box complex ubiquitin ligase and in kinetochore complexes. S100A6-binding domain of CacyBP/SIP is in its C-terminal region, where the homology between CacyBP/SIP and Sgt1 is the greatest. Therefore, we hypothesized that Sgt1, through its C-terminal region, interacts with S100A6. We tested this hypothesis by performing affinity chromatography and chemical cross-linking experiments. Our results showed that Sgt1 binds to S100A6 in a calcium-regulated manner and that the S100A6-binding domain in Sgt1 is comprised of 71 C-terminal residues. Moreover, S100A6 does not influence Skp1-Sgt1 binding, a result suggesting that separate Sgt1 domains are responsible for interactions with S100A6 and Skp1. Sgt1 binds not only to S100A6 but also to S100B and S100P, other members of the S100 family. The interaction between S100A6 and Sgt1 is likely to be physiologically relevant because both proteins were co-immunoprecipitated from HEp-2 cell line extract using monoclonal anti-S100A6 antibody. Phosphorylation of the S100A6-binding domain of Sgt1 by casein kinase II was inhibited by S100A6, a result suggesting that the role of S100A6 binding is to regulate the phosphorylation of Sgt1. These findings suggest that protein ubiquitination via Sgt1-dependent pathway can be regulated by S100 proteins.
Architecture of initiation-competent 12-subunit RNA polymerase II.	RNA polymerase (Pol) II consists of a 10-polypeptide catalytic core and the two-subunit Rpb4/7 complex that is required for transcription initiation. Previous structures of the Pol II core revealed a "clamp," which binds the DNA template strand via three "switch regions," and a flexible "linker" to the C-terminal repeat domain (CTD). Here we derived a model of the complete Pol II by fitting structures of the core and Rpb4/7 to a 4.2-A crystallographic electron density map. Rpb4/7 protrudes from the polymerase "upstream face," on which initiation factors assemble for promoter DNA loading. Rpb7 forms a wedge between the clamp and the linker, restricting the clamp to a closed position. The wedge allosterically prevents entry of the promoter DNA duplex into the active center cleft and induces in two switch regions a conformation poised for template-strand binding. Interaction of Rpb4/7 with the linker explains Rpb4-mediated recruitment of the CTD phosphatase to the CTD during Pol II recycling. The core-Rpb7 interaction and some functions of Rpb4/7 are apparently conserved in all eukaryotic and archaeal RNA polymerases but not in the bacterial enzyme.
Complete, 12-subunit RNA polymerase II at 4.1-A resolution: implications for the initiation of transcription.	The x-ray structure of complete RNA polymerase II from Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been determined, including a heterodimer of subunits Rpb4 and Rpb7 not present in previous "core" polymerase II structures. The heterodimer maintains the polymerase in the conformation of a transcribing complex, may bind RNA as it emerges from the enzyme, and is in a position to interact with general transcription factors and the Mediator of transcriptional regulation.
The beta-subunit of the protein-conducting channel of the endoplasmic reticulum functions as the guanine nucleotide exchange factor for the beta-subunit of the signal recognition particle receptor.	Cotranslational protein transport to the endoplasmic reticulum is controlled by the concerted interaction of three GTPases: the SRP54 subunit of the signal recognition particle (SRP) and the alpha- and beta-subunits of the SRP receptor (SR). SRbeta is related to ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF)-type GTPases, and the recently published crystal structure of SRbeta-GTP in complex with the binding domain of SRalpha suggested that SRbeta, like all ARF-type GT-Pases, requires a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for function. Searching the sequence data base, we identified significant sequence similarity between the Sec7 domain of ARF-GEFs and the cytosolic domains of the beta-subunits of the two homologous heterotrimeric protein-conducting channels in yeast. Using a fluorescence nucleotide exchange assay, we show that the beta-subunits of the heterotrimeric protein-conducting channels function as the GEFs for SRbeta. Both the cytosolic domain of Sec61beta as well as the holo-Sec61beta, when part of the isolated trimeric Sec61p complex, function as the GEF for SRbeta, whereas the same Sec61beta, when part of the heptameric complex that facilitates posttranslational protein transport, is inactive as the GEF for SRbeta
An in vitro assay using overexpressed yeast SRP demonstrates that cotranslational translocation is dependent upon the J-domain of Sec63p.	The signal recognition particle (SRP) is required for co-translational targeting of polypeptides to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Once at the membrane, the precursor interacts with a complex proteinaceous machinery that mediates its translocation across the bilayer. Genetic studies in yeast have identified a number of genes whose products are involved in this complex process. These mutants offer a potentially valuable resource with which to analyze the biochemical role played by each component in the pathway. However, such analyses have been hampered by the failure to reconstitute an efficient in vitro assay for SRP-dependent translocation. We report the construction of two multicopy vectors that allow overexpression of all seven gene products required to make SRP in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The overexpressed subunits assemble into intact and functional SRP particles, and we further demonstrate that in vitro reconstitution of co-translational translocation is greatly enhanced using cytosol from the overexpression strain. We use this assay to demonstrate that Sec63p is required for co-translational translocation in vitro and specifically identify the "J-domain" of Sec63p as crucial for this pathway.
A region within a lumenal loop of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ycf1p directs proteolytic processing and substrate specificity.	Ycf1p, a member of the yeast multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP) subfamily of ATP-binding cassette proteins, is a vacuolar membrane transporter that confers resistance to a variety of toxic substances such as cadmium and arsenite. Ycf1p undergoes a PEP4-dependent processing event to yield N- and C-terminal cleavage products that remain associated with one another. In the present study, we sought to determine whether proteolytic cleavage is required for Ycf1p activity. We have identified a unique region within lumenal loop 6 of Ycf1p, designated the loop 6 insertion (L6(ins)), which appears to be necessary and sufficient for proteolytic cleavage, since L6(ins) can promote processing when moved to new locations in Ycf1p or into a related transporter, Bpt1p. Surprisingly, mutational results indicate that proteolytic processing is not essential for Ycf1p transport activity. Instead, the L6(ins) appears to regulate substrate specificity of Ycf1p, since certain mutations in this region lower cellular cadmium resistance with a concomitant gain in arsenite resistance. Although some of these L6(ins) mutations block processing, there is no correlation between processing and substrate specificity. The activity profiles of the Ycf1p L6(ins) mutants are dramatically affected by the strain background in which they are expressed, raising the possibility that another cellular component may functionally impact Ycf1p activity. A candidate component may be a new full-length MRP-type transporter (NFT1), reported in the Saccharomyces Genome Database as two adjacent open reading frames, YKR103w and YKR104w, but which we show here is present in most Saccharomyces strains as a single open reading frame.
Cryo-negative staining reveals conformational flexibility within yeast RNA polymerase I.	The structure of the yeast DNA-dependent RNA polymerase I (RNA Pol I), prepared by cryo-negative staining, was studied by electron microscopy. A structural model of the enzyme at a resolution of 1.8 nm was determined from the analysis of isolated molecules and showed an excellent fit with the atomic structure of the RNA Pol II Delta4/7. The high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the stained molecular images revealed a conformational flexibility within the image data set that could be recovered in three-dimensions after implementation of a novel strategy to sort the "open" and "closed" conformations in our heterogeneous data set. This conformational change mapped in the "wall/flap" domain of the second largest subunit (beta-like) and allows a better accessibility of the DNA-binding groove. This displacement of the wall/flap domain could play an important role in the transition between initiation and elongation state of the enzyme. Moreover, a protrusion was apparent in the cryo-negatively stained model, which was absent in the atomic structure and was not detected in previous 3D models of RNA Pol I. This structure could, however, be detected in unstained views of the enzyme obtained from frozen hydrated 2D crystals, indicating that this novel feature is not induced by the staining process. Unexpectedly, negatively charged molybdenum compounds were found to accumulate within the DNA-binding groove, which is best explained by the highly positive electrostatic potential of this region of the molecule, thus, suggesting that the stain distribution reflects the overall surface charge of the molecule.
Mechanism of DNA binding by the ADR1 zinc finger transcription factor as determined by SPR.	The ADR1 protein recognizes a six base-pair consensus DNA sequence using two zinc fingers and an adjacent accessory motif. Kinetic measurements were performed on the DNA-binding domain of ADR1 using surface plasmon resonance. Binding by ADR1 was characterized to two known native binding sequences from the ADH2 and CTA1 promoter regions, which differ in two of the six consensus positions. In addition, non-specific binding by ADR1 to a random DNA sequence was measured. ADR1 binds the native sites with nanomolar affinities. Remarkably, ADR1 binds non-specific DNA with affinities only approximately tenfold lower than the native sequences. The specific and non-specific binding affinities are conferred mainly by differences in the association phase of DNA binding. The association rate for the complex is strongly influenced by the proximal accessory region, while the dissociation reaction and specificity of binding are controlled by the two zinc fingers. Binding kinetics of two ADR1 mutants was also examined. ADR1 containing an R91K mutation in the accessory region bound with similar affinity to wild-type, but with slightly less sequence specificity. The R91K mutation was observed to increase binding affinity to a suboptimal sequence by decreasing the complex dissociation rate. L146H, a change-of-specificity mutation at the +3 position of the second zinc finger, bound its preferred sequence with a slightly higher affinity than wild-type. The L146H mutant indicates that beneficial protein-DNA contacts provide similar levels of stabilization to the complex, whether they are hydrogen-bonding or van der Waals interactions.
High-affinity DNA binding by a Mot1p-TBP complex: implications for TAF-independent transcription.	Yeast Mot1p, an abundant conserved member of the Snf2p-ATPase family of proteins, both dissociates TBP from DNA in vitro using the energy of ATP and represses gene transcription in vivo, yet paradoxically, loss of Mot1p function also leads to decreased transcription of certain genes. We conducted experiments utilizing fluorescently labeled DNA, TBP, fluorescence anisotropy spectroscopy and native gel electrophoresis to study Mot1p action. We have made a number of observations, the most intriguing being that a stable Mot1p-TBP complex has the ability to bind TATA DNA with high affinity, albeit with dramatically altered specificity. We propose that this altered TBP-DNA recognition is integral to Mot1p's ability to regulate transcription, and further postulate that the Mot1p-TBP complex delivers TBP to TAF-independent mRNA encoding genes.
The nuclear actin-related proteins Arp7 and Arp9: a dimeric module that cooperates with architectural proteins for chromatin remodeling.	Nuclear actin-related proteins (ARPs) are essential components of chromatin remodeling and modifying complexes, but their functions and relationship to actin remain elusive. The yeast SWI/SNF and RSC complexes contain Arp7 and Arp9, and are shown to form a stable heterodimer with the properties of a functional module. Arp7 and Arp9 rely on their actin-related regions for heterodimerization, and their unique C-termini cooperate for assembly into RSC. We suggest that regulated ARP-ARP (and possibly ARP-beta-actin) heterodimerization might be a conserved feature of chromatin complexes. A RSC complex lacking Arp7/9 was isolated that displays robust nucleosome remodeling activity, suggesting a separate essential role for ARPs in the regulation of chromatin structure. A screen for suppressors of arp mutations yielded the DNA bending architectural transcription factor Nhp6, which interacts with RSC complex physically and functionally and shows facilitated binding to nucleosomes by RSC. We propose that Arp7/9 dimers function with DNA bending proteins to facilitate proper chromatin architecture and complex- complex interactions.
Multiple roles of Rev3, the catalytic subunit of polzeta in maintaining genome stability in vertebrates.	Translesion DNA synthesis (TLS) and homologous DNA recombination (HR) are two major postreplicational repair (PRR) pathways. The REV3 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase zeta, which is involved in mutagenic TLS. To investigate the role of REV3 in vertebrates, we disruped the gene in chicken DT40 cells. REV3(-/-) cells are sensitive to various DNA-damaging agents, including UV, methyl methanesulphonate (MMS), cisplatin and ionizing radiation (IR), consistent with its role in TLS. Interestingly, REV3(-/-) cells showed reduced gene targeting efficiencies and significant increase in the level of chromosomal breaks in the subsequent M phase after IR in the G(2) phase, suggesting the involvement of Rev3 in HR-mediated double-strand break repair. REV3(-/-) cells showed significant increase in sister chromatid exchange events and chromosomal breaks even in the absence of exogenous genotoxic stress. Furthermore, double mutants of REV3 and RAD54, genes involved in HR, are synthetic lethal. In conclusion, Rev3 plays critical roles in PRR, which accounts for survival on naturally occurring endogenous as well as induced damages during replication.
The coiled-coil of the human Rad50 DNA repair protein contains specific segments of increased flexibility.	Protein structural features are usually determined by defining regularities in a large population of homogeneous molecules. However, irregular features such as structural variation and flexibility are likely to be missed, despite their vital role for their biological function. In this paper, we report the observation of striking irregularities in the flexibility of the coiled-coil region of the human Rad50 DNA repair protein. Existing methods to quantitatively analyze flexibility are applicable to homogeneous polymers only. Because protein coiled-coils cannot be assumed to be homogeneous, we develop a method to quantify the local flexibility from high-resolution atomic force microscopy images. Indeed, in Rad50 coiled-coils, two positions of increased flexibility are observed. We discuss how this dynamic structural feature is integral to Rad50 function.
The SAC domain-containing protein gene family in Arabidopsis.	The SAC domain was first identified in the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) Sac1p phosphoinositide phosphatase protein and subsequently found in a number of proteins from yeast and animals. The SAC domain is approximately 400 amino acids in length and is characterized by seven conserved motifs. The SAC domains of several proteins have been recently demonstrated to possess phosphoinositide phosphatase activities. Sac1p has been shown to regulate the levels of various phosphoinositides in the phosphoinositide pool and affect diverse cellular functions such as actin cytoskeleton organization, Golgi function, and maintenance of vacuole morphology. The Arabidopsis genome contains a total of nine genes encoding SAC domain-containing proteins (AtSACs). The SAC domains of the AtSACs possess the conserved amino acid motifs that are believed to be important for the phosphoinositide phosphatase activities of yeast and animal SAC domain proteins. AtSACs can be divided into three subgroups based on their sequence similarities, hydropathy profiles, and phylogenetic relationship. Gene expression analysis demonstrated that the AtSAC genes exhibited differential expression patterns in different organs and, in particular, the AtSAC6 gene was predominantly expressed in flowers. Moreover, the expression of the AtSAC6 gene was highly induced by salinity. These results provide a foundation for future studies on the elucidation of the cellular functions of SAC domain-containing proteins in Arabidopsis.
Dynamic enhancements of sample loading and analyte concentration in capillary isoelectric focusing for proteome studies.	Capillary isoelectric focusing (CIEF) involves the use of the entire capillary filled with a mixture containing protein/peptide analytes and carrier ampholytes. Thus, the preparative capabilities of CIEF are inherently greater than most capillary-based electrokinetic separation techniques. To further increase sample loading and, therefore, the concentrations of focused analytes, a dynamic approach, which is based on electrokinetic injection of proteins/peptides from a solution reservoir, is demonstrated using a low p/ protein calibration kit and tryptic peptides from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The proteins/peptides continuously migrate into the capillary and encounter a pH gradient established by carrier ampholytes originally present in the capillary for focusing and separation. Dynamic introduction and focusing in CIEF can be directly controlled by various electrokinetic conditions, including the injection time and the applied electric field strength. Differences in the sample loading are contributed by electrokinetic injection bias and are affected by the individual analyte's electrophoretic mobility. Depending on the mobilities of yeast peptides, the loading capacity of each peptide is measured to be around 8 to 45-fold of that obtained in conventional CIEF. By comparing with the concentrations of dilute yeast peptides originally present in the reservoir, an overall concentration factor of 1400-7700 together with excellent separation resolution is achieved using dynamic introduction and focusing. This concentration effect is further illustrated by detecting 10 pg/microL of bradykinin peptide spiked in yeast protein digest using only ultraviolet absorption.
The comparative proteomics of ubiquitination in mouse.	Ubiquitination is a common posttranslational modification in eukaryotic cells, influencing many fundamental cellular processes. Defects in ubiquitination and the processes it mediates are involved in many human disease states. The ubiquitination of a substrate involves four classes of enzymes:a ubiquitin-activating enzyme (E1), a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2), a ubiquitin protein ligase (E3), and a de-ubiquitinating enzyme (DUB). A substantial number of E1s (four), E2s (13), E3s (97), and DUBs (six) that were previously unknown in the mouse are included in the FANTOM2 Representative Transcript and Protein Set (RTPS). Many of the genes encoding these proteins will constitute promising candidates for involvement in disease. In addition, the RTPS provides the basis for the most comprehensive survey of ubiquitination-associated proteins across eukaryotes undertaken to date. Comparisons of these proteins across human and other organisms suggest that eukaryotic evolution has been associated with an increase in the number and diversity of E3s (possessing either zinc-finger RING, F-box, or HECT domains) and DUBs (containing the ubiquitin thiolesterase family 2 domain). These increases in numbers are too large to be accounted for by the presence of fragmentary proteins in the data sets examined. Much of this innovation appears to have been associated with the emergence of multicellular organisms, and subsequently of vertebrates, increasing the opportunity for complex regulation of ubiquitination-mediated cellular and developmental processes.
Identification and analysis of chromodomain-containing proteins encoded in the mouse transcriptome.	The chromodomain is 40-50 amino acids in length and is conserved in a wide range of chromatic and regulatory proteins involved in chromatin remodeling. Chromodomain-containing proteins can be classified into families based on their broader characteristics, in particular the presence of other types of domains, and which correlate with different subclasses of the chromodomains themselves. Hidden Markov model (HMM)-generated profiles of different subclasses of chromodomains were used here to identify sequences encoding chromodomain-containing proteins in the mouse transcriptome and genome. A total of 36 different loci encoding proteins containing chromodomains, including 17 novel loci, were identified. Six of these loci (including three apparent pseudogenes, a novel HP1 ortholog, and two novel Msl-3 transcription factor-like proteins) are not present in the human genome, whereas the human genome contains four loci (two CDY orthologs and two apparent CDY pseudogenes) that are not present in mouse. A number of these loci exhibit alternative splicing to produce different isoforms, including 43 novel variants, some of which lack the chromodomain. The likely functions of these proteins are discussed in relation to the known functions of other chromodomain-containing proteins within the same family.
Structural and functional implications of the instability of the ADP/ATP transporter purified from mitochondria as revealed by FTIR spectroscopy.	The ADP/ATP transporter shows a high instability when solubilized, making it difficult to obtain functional protein with sufficient purity for long-term spectroscopic studies. When solubilized in the detergent dodecyl maltoside the protein is in equilibrium between the so-called CATR and BA conformations and in a few hours it becomes nonfunctional, unable to bind either its inhibitors or its substrates. By Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, we studied the structural changes involved in this denaturation process. To do so, the carboxyatractyloside-inhibited protein was used as a structural model for the protein in the CATR conformation and its spectrum was compared with that of the unliganded time-inactivated protein. From the difference spectra of the amide I, amide II, and amide A bands combined with dichroism spectra of the carboxyatractyloside-inhibited protein, we concluded that few structural differences exist between both states, affecting as few as 11 amino acids (3.5% of the protein); the structural changes consisted in the disappearance of large loop structure and the appearance of aggregated strands. We hypothesize that some mitochondrial loop (tentatively loop M1) shows a high tendency to aggregate, being responsible for the observed features. The functional consequences of this hypothesis are discussed.
Functional analysis of the M2(D) helix of the TRK1 potassium transporter of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Eukaryotic KcsA-related K+ transporters mediate physiologically relevant K+ and Na+ fluxes in fungi and plants. ScTRK1 is a characteristic member of the group, and here we report a mutational analysis of the unique M2(D) helix of this transporter. Our results support the theoretical models placing this helix in a relevant position in the pore and interacting with P segments. Most single mutations eliminating positively charged or introducing negatively charged residues reduced the V(max) of Rb+ influx to a half, several together showed an additive effect, and four practically suppressed transport. In contrast, the introduction of only one positively charged residue practically abolished the function of the transporter. Almost all mutations in the M2(D) helix affected the two Rb+ binding sites of the transporter, mimicking mutations in the selectivity filter.
Structural similarity in the absence of sequence homology of the messenger RNA export factors Mtr2 and p15.	The association between Mtr2 and Mex67 is essential for the nuclear export of bulk messenger RNA in yeast. In metazoans, the analogous function is carried out by the TAP-p15 heterodimer. Whereas Mex67 and TAP are highly conserved proteins, their binding partners, Mtr2 and p15, share no sequence similarity, but are nevertheless functionally homologous. Here, we report the 2.8-A resolution crystal structure of Mtr2 in complex with the NTF2-like domain of Mex67. Mtr2 is a novel member of the NTF2-like family and interacts with Mex67, forming a complex with a similar structural architecture to that of TAP-p15. Mtr2 fulfils an analogous function to that of human p15 in maintaining the structural integrity of the heterodimer. In addition, Mtr2 presents a long internal loop, which contains residues that affect the export of the large ribosomal subunit.
PHI+], a novel Sup35-prion variant propagated with non-Gln/Asn oligopeptide repeats in the absence of the chaperone protein Hsp104	The [PSI+] element of the budding yeast is an aggregated form of the translation release factor Sup35 that is propagated and transmitted cytoplasmically in a manner analogous to that of mammalian prions. The N-terminal of Sup35, necessary for [PSI+], contains oligopeptide repeats and multiple Gln/Asn residues.
Overproduction and analysis of eukaryotic multiprotein complexes in Escherichia coli using a dual-vector strategy.	Biochemical studies of eukaryotic proteins are often constrained by low availability of these typically large, multicomponent protein complexes in pure form. Escherichia coli is a commonly used host for large-scale protein production; however, its utility for eukaryotic protein production is limited because of problems associated with transcription, translation, and proper folding of proteins. Here we describe the development and testing of pLANT, a vector that addresses many of these problems simultaneously. The pLANT vector contains a T7 promoter-controlled expression unit, a p15A origin of replication, and genes for rare transfer RNAs and kanamycin resistance. Thus, the pLANT vector can be used in combination with the pET vector to coexpress multiple proteins in E. coli. Using this approach, we have successfully produced high-milligram quantities of two different Saccharomyces cerevisiae complexes in E. coli: the heterodimeric Msh2-Msh6 mismatch repair protein (248kDa) and the five-subunit replication factor C clamp loader (250 kDa). Quantitative analyses indicate that these proteins are fully active, affirming the utility of pLANT+pET-based production of eukaryotic proteins in E. coli for in vitro studies of their structure and function.
Electrostatic interactions in leucine zippers: thermodynamic analysis of the contributions of Glu and His residues and the effect of mutating salt bridges.	Electrostatic interactions play a complex role in stabilizing proteins. Here, we present a rigorous thermodynamic analysis of the contribution of individual Glu and His residues to the relative pH-dependent stability of the designed disulfide-linked leucine zipper AB(SS). The contribution of an ionized side-chain to the pH-dependent stability is related to the shift of the pK(a) induced by folding of the coiled coil structure. pK(a)(F) values of ten Glu and two His side-chains in folded AB(SS) and the corresponding pK(a)(U) values in unfolded peptides with partial sequences of AB(SS) were determined by 1H NMR spectroscopy: of four Glu residues not involved in ion pairing, two are destabilizing (-5.6 kJ mol(-1)) and two are interacting with the positive alpha-helix dipoles and are thus stabilizing (+3.8 kJ mol(-1)) in charged form. The two His residues positioned in the C-terminal moiety of AB(SS) interact with the negative alpha-helix dipoles resulting in net stabilization of the coiled coil conformation carrying charged His (-2.6 kJ mol(-1)). Of the six Glu residues involved in inter-helical salt bridges, three are destabilizing and three are stabilizing in charged form, the net contribution of salt-bridged Glu side-chains being destabilizing (-1.1 kJ mol(-1)). The sum of the individual contributions of protonated Glu and His to the higher stability of AB(SS) at acidic pH (-5.4 kJ mol(-1)) agrees with the difference in stability determined by thermal unfolding at pH 8 and pH 2 (-5.3 kJ mol(-1)). To confirm salt bridge formation, the positive charge of the basic partner residue of one stabilizing and one destabilizing Glu was removed by isosteric mutations (Lys-->norleucine, Arg-->norvaline). Both mutations destabilize the coiled coil conformation at neutral pH and increase the pK(a) of the formerly ion-paired Glu side-chain, verifying the formation of a salt bridge even in the case where a charged side-chain is destabilizing. Because removing charges by a double mutation cycle mainly discloses the immediate charge-charge effect, mutational analysis tends to overestimate the overall energetic contribution of salt bridges to protein stability.
Reinvestigation of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome annotation by comparison to the genome of a related fungus: Ashbya gossypii.	The recently sequenced genome of the filamentous fungus Ashbya gossypii revealed remarkable similarities to that of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae both at the level of homology and synteny (conservation of gene order). Thus, it became possible to reinvestigate the S. cerevisiae genome in the syntenic regions leading to an improved annotation.
Scavenging with TEMPO* to identify peptide- and protein-based radicals by mass spectrometry: advantages of spin scavenging over spin trapping.	The detection and characterization of radicals in biomolecules are challenging due to their high reactivity and low concentration. Mass spectrometry (MS) provides a tool for the unambiguous identification of protein-based radicals by exploiting their reactivity with suitable reagents. To date, protein-radical detection by MS has been modeled after electron paramagnetic resonance experiments, in which diamagnetic spin traps, such as 3,5-dibromo-4-nitrosobenzene sulfonic acid, convert unstable radicals to more stable spin adducts. Since MS detects mass changes, and not unpaired spins, conversion of radicals to stable diamagnetic adducts is more desirable. The use of 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidinyl-1-oxy (TEMPO(*)) in the MS identification of protein-based radicals was explored here to establish whether scavenging via radical combination would give rise to TEMPO adducts that were stable to MS analysis. The horseradish peroxidase/H(2)O(2) reaction was used to generate radicals in derivatives of tyrosine, tryptophan, and phenylalanine as models of protein-based radicals. TEMPO(*) was added as a radical scavenger, and the products were analyzed by electrospray ionization (ESI) MS. Dramatically higher mass-adduct yields were obtained using radical scavenging vs radical trapping, which greatly enhanced the sensitivity of radical detection. The efficiency of TEMPO(*) in protein radical scavenging was examined in horse heart myoglobin and cytochrome c peroxidase (CCP) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. On H(2)O(2) binding to their ferric hemes, two oxidizing equivalents are transferred to the proteins as an Fe(IV)=O species and a polypeptide-based radical. In addition, CCP has been shown to reduce up to 10 equiv of H(2)O(2) using endogenous donors, thereby generating as many as 20 radicals on its polypeptide. Following myoglobin and CCP incubation with a 10-fold molar excess of H(2)O(2) and TEMPO(*), matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) time-of-flight analysis of the tryptic peptides derived from the proteins revealed 1 and 9 TEMPO adducts of myoglobin and CCP, respectively. Given the high scavenging efficiency of TEMPO(*) and the stability of TEMPO-labeled peptides in ESI and MALDI sources, scavenging by stable nitroxide radicals coupled with MS analysis should provide sensitive and powerful technology for the characterization of protein-based radicals.
The structure of the cell cycle protein Cdc14 reveals a proline-directed protein phosphatase.	The Cdc14 family of dual-specificity protein phosphatases (DSPs) is conserved within eukaryotes and functions to down-regulate mitotic Cdk activities, promoting cytokinesis and mitotic exit. We have integrated structural and kinetic analyses to define the molecular mechanism of the dephosphorylation reaction catalysed by Cdc14. The structure of Cdc14 illustrates a novel arrangement of two domains, each with a DSP-like fold, arranged in tandem. The C-terminal domain contains the conserved PTP motif of the catalytic site, whereas the N-terminal domain, which shares no sequence similarity with other DSPs, contributes to substrate specificity, and lacks catalytic activity. The catalytic site is located at the base of a pronounced surface channel formed by the interface of the two domains, and regions of both domains interact with the phosphopeptide substrate. Specificity for a pSer-Pro motif is mediated by a hydrophobic pocket that is capable of accommodating the apolar Pro(P+1) residue of the peptide. Our structural and kinetic data support a role for Cdc14 in the preferential dephosphorylation of proteins modified by proline-directed kinases.
A docking site determining specificity of Pbs2 MAPKK for Ssk2/Ssk22 MAPKKKs in the yeast HOG pathway.	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are conserved signaling modules composed of three sequentially activated kinases (MAPKKK, MAPKK and MAPK). Because individual cells contain multiple MAPK cascades, mechanisms are required to ensure the fidelity of signal transmission. In yeast, external high osmolarity activates the HOG (high osmolarity glycerol) MAPK pathway, which consists of two upstream branches (SHO1 and SLN1) and common downstream elements including the Pbs2 MAPKK and the Hog1 MAPK. The Ssk2/Ssk22 MAPKKKs in the SLN1 branch, when activated, exclusively phosphorylate the Pbs2 MAPKK. We found that this was due to an Ssk2/Ssk22-specific docking site in the Pbs2 N-terminal region. The Pbs2 docking site constitutively bound the Ssk2/Ssk22 kinase domain. Docking site mutations drastically reduced the Pbs2-Ssk2/Ssk22 interaction and hampered Hog1 activation by the SLN1 branch. Fusion of the Pbs2 docking site to a different MAPKK, Ste7, allowed phosphorylation of Ste7 by Ssk2/Ssk22. Thus, the docking site contributes to both the efficiency and specificity of signaling. During these analyses, we also found a nuclear export signal and a possible nuclear localization signal in Pbs2.
A heterologous coiled coil can substitute for helix I of the Sindbis virus capsid protein.	Alphavirus core assembly proceeds along an assembly pathway involving a dimeric assembly intermediate. Several regions of the alphavirus capsid protein have been implicated in promoting and stabilizing this dimerization, including a putative heptad repeat sequence named helix I. This sequence, which spans residues 38 to 55 of the Sindbis virus capsid protein, was implicated in stabilizing dimeric contacts initiated through the C-terminal two-thirds of the capsid protein and nucleic acid. The studies presented here demonstrate that helix I can be functionally replaced by the corresponding sequence of a related alphavirus, western equine encephalitis virus, and also by an unrelated sequence from the yeast transcription activator, GCN4, that was previously shown to form a dimeric coiled coil. Replacing helix I with the entire leucine zipper domain of GCN4 (residues 250 to 281) produced a virus with the wild-type phenotype as determined by plaque assay and one-step growth analysis. However, replacement of helix I with a GCN4 sequence that favored trimer formation produced a virus that exhibited approximately 40-fold reduction in virus replication compared to the wild-type Sindbis virus. Changing residues within the Sindbis virus helix I sequence to favor trimer formation also produced a virus with reduced replication. Peptides corresponding to helix I inhibited core-like particle assembly in vitro. On the basis of these studies, it is proposed that helix I favors capsid protein-capsid protein interactions through the formation of dimeric coiled-coil interactions and may stabilize assembly intermediates in the alphavirus nucleocapsid core assembly pathway.
NMR analysis of methyl groups at 100-500 kDa: model systems and Arp2/3 complex.	Large macromolecular machines are among the most important and challenging targets for structural and mechanistic analyses. Consequently, there is great interest in development of NMR methods for the study of multicomponent systems in the 50-500 kDa range. Biochemical methods also must be developed in concert to produce such systems in selectively labeled form. Here, we present (1)H/(13)C-HSQC spectra of protonated methyl groups in a model system that mimics molecular weights up to approximately 560 kDa. Signals from side chain methyl groups of Ile, Leu, and Val residues are clearly detectable at correlation times up to approximately 330 ns. We have also developed a biochemical procedure to produce the 240 kDa, heteroheptameric Arp2/3 actin nucleation complex selectively labeled at one subunit and obtained (1)H/(13)C-HSQC spectra of this assembly. Sensitivity in spectra of both the Arp2/3 complex and the model system indicate that methyl groups will be useful sources of information in nonsymmetric systems with molecular weights greater than 600 kDa at concentrations less than 100 microM. Methyl analyses will complement TROSY and CRINEPT analyses of amides in NMR studies of structure and molecular interactions of extremely large macromolecules and assemblies.
Role of C-terminal extensions of subunits beta2 and beta7 in assembly and activity of eukaryotic proteasomes.	A close inspection of the crystal structure of the yeast 20 S proteasome revealed that a prominent connection between the two beta-rings is mediated by the subunit beta7/Pre4. Its C-terminal extension intercalates between the beta1/Pre3 and beta2/Pup1 subunits on the opposite ring. We show that the interactions promoted by the beta7/Pre4 tail are important to facilitate the formation of 20 S particles from two half-proteasome precursor complexes and/or to stabilize mature 20 S proteasomes. The deletion of 19 residues from the beta7/Pre4 C terminus leads to an accumulation of half-proteasome precursor complexes containing the maturation factor Ump1. The C-terminal extension of beta7/Pre4, which forms several hydrogen bonds with beta1/Pre3, is in addition required for the post-acidic activity mediated by the latter subunit. Deletion of the C-terminal tail of beta7/Pre4 results in an inhibition of beta1/Pre3 propeptide processing and abrogation of post-acidic activity. Our data obtained with yeast strains that expressed the mature form of Pre3 lacking its propeptide suggest that interactions between the Pre4 C terminus and Pre3 stabilize a conformation of its active site, which is essential for post-acidic activity. Deletion of the C-terminal extension of beta2/Pup1, which wraps around beta3/Pup3 within the same beta-ring, is lethal, indicating that this extension serves an essential function in proteasome assembly or stability.
Systematic mutagenesis of the leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domain of CCR4 reveals specific sites for binding to CAF1 and a separate critical role for the LRR in CCR4 deadenylase activity.	CCR4, a poly(A) deadenylase of the exonuclease III family, is a component of the multiprotein CCR4-NOT complex of Saccharomyces cerevisiae that is involved in mRNA degradation. CCR4, unlike all other exonuclease III family members, contains a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) motif through which it makes contact to CAF1 and other factors. The LRR residues important in contacting CAF1 were identified by constructing 29 CCR4 mutations encompassing a majority (47 of 81) of residues interstitial to the conserved structural residues. Two-hybrid and immunoprecipitation data revealed that physical contact between CAF1 and the LRR is blocked by mutation of just two alpha-helix/beta-helix strand loop residues linking the first and second repeats. In contrast, CAF16, a potential ligand of CCR4, was abrogated in its binding to the LRR by mutations in the N terminus of the second beta-strand. The LRR domain was also found to contact the deadenylase domain of CCR4, and deletion of the LRR region completely inhibited CCR4 enzymatic activity. Mutations throughout the beta-sheet surface of the LRR, including those that did not specifically interfere with contacts to CAF1 or CAF16, significantly reduced CCR4 deadenylase activity. These results indicate that the CCR4-LRR, in addition to binding to CAF1, plays an essential role in the CCR4 deadenylation of mRNA.
Translation initiation from a naturally occurring non-AUG codon in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Although previous studies have already shown that both cytoplasmic and mitochondrial activities of glycyl-tRNA synthetase are provided by a single gene, GRS1,in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the mechanism by which this occurs remains unclear. Evidence presented here indicates that this bifunctional property is actually a result of two distinct translational products alternatively generated from a single transcript of this gene. Except for an amino-terminal 23-amino acid extension, these two isoforms have the same polypeptide sequence and function exclusively in their respective compartments under normal conditions. Reporter gene assays further suggest that this leader peptide can function independently as a mitochondrial targeting signal and plays the major role in the subcellular localization of the isoforms. Additionally, whereas the short protein is translationally initiated from a traditional AUG triplet, the longer isoform is generated from an upstream inframe UUG codon. To our knowledge, GRS1 appears to be the first example in the yeast wherein a functional protein isoform is initiated from a naturally occurring non-AUG codon. The results suggest that non-AUG initiation might be a mechanism existing throughout all kingdoms.
Mutations in the yeast mrf1 gene encoding mitochondrial release factor inhibit translation on mitochondrial ribosomes.	Although the control of mitochondrial translation in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been studied extensively, the mechanism of termination remains obscure. Ten mutations isolated in a genetic screen for read-through of premature stop codons in mitochondrial genes were localized in the chromosomal gene encoding the mitochondrial release factor mRF1. The mrf1-13 and mrf1-780 mutant genes, in contrast to other alleles, caused a non-respiratory phenotype that correlated with decreased expression of mitochondrial genes as well as a reporter ARG8(m) gene inserted into mitochondrial DNA. The steady-state levels of several mitochondrially encoded proteins, but not their mRNAs, were dramatically decreased in mrf1-13 and mrf1-780 cells. Structural models of mRF1 were constructed, allowing localization of residues substituted in the mrf1 mutants and offering an insight into the possible mechanism by which these mutations change the mitochondrial translation termination fidelity. Inhibition of mitochondrial translation in mrf1-13 and mrf1-780 correlated with the three-dimensional localization of the mutated residues close to the PST motif presumably involved in the recognition of stop codons in mitochondrial mRNA.
TOR complex 1 includes a novel component, Tco89p (YPL180w), and cooperates with Ssd1p to maintain cellular integrity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The Tor1p and Tor2p kinases, targets of the therapeutically important antibiotic rapamycin, function as components of two distinct protein complexes in yeast, termed TOR complex 1 (TORC1) and TORC2. TORC1 is responsible for a wide range of rapamycin-sensitive cellular activities and contains, in addition to Tor1p or Tor2p, two highly conserved proteins, Lst8p and Kog1p. By identifying proteins that co-purify with Tor1p, Tor2p, Lst8p, and Kog1p, we have characterized a comprehensive set of protein-protein interactions that define further the composition of TORC1 as well as TORC2. In particular, we have identified Tco89p (YPL180w) and Bit61p (YJL058c) as novel components of TORC1 and TORC2, respectively. Deletion of TOR1 or TCO89 results in two specific and distinct phenotypes, (i) rapamycin-hypersensitivity and (ii) decreased cellular integrity, both of which correlate with the presence of SSD1-d, an allele of SSD1 previously associated with defects in cellular integrity. Furthermore, we link Ssd1p to Tap42p, a component of the TOR pathway that is believed to act uniquely downstream of TORC1. Together, these results define a novel connection between TORC1 and Ssd1p-mediated maintenance of cellular integrity.
Mapping Gene Ontology to proteins based on protein-protein interaction data.	Gene Ontology (GO) consortium provides structural description of protein function that is used as a common language for gene annotation in many organisms. Large-scale techniques have generated many valuable protein-protein interaction datasets that are useful for the study of protein function. Combining both GO and protein-protein interaction data allows the prediction of function for unknown proteins.
A regulatory domain in the C-terminal extension of the yeast glycerol channel Fps1p.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene FPS1 encodes an aquaglyceroporin of the major intrinsic protein (MIP) family. The main function of Fps1p seems to be the efflux of glycerol in the adaptation of the yeast cell to lower external osmolarity. Fps1p is an atypical member of the family, because the protein is much larger (669 amino acids) than most MIPs due to long hydrophilic extensions in both termini. We have shown previously that a short domain in the N-terminal extension of the protein is required for restricting glycerol transport through the channel (Tams, M. J., Karlgren, S., Bill, R. M., Hedfalk, K., Allegri, L., Ferreira, M., Thevelein, J. M., Rydstrm, J., Mullins, J. G. L., and Hohmann, S. (2003) J. Biol. Chem. 278, 6337-6345). Deletion of the N-terminal domain results in an unregulated channel, loss of glycerol, and osmosensitivity. In this work we have investigated the role of the Fps1p C terminus (139 amino acids). A set of eight truncations has been constructed and tested in vivo in a yeast fps1Delta strain. We have performed growth tests, membrane localization following cell fractionation, and glycerol accumulation measurements as well as an investigation of the osmotic stress response. Our results show that the C-terminal extension is also involved in restricting transport through Fps1p. We have identified a sequence of 12 amino acids, residues 535-546, close to the sixth transmembrane domain. This element seems to be important for controlling Fps1p function. Similar to the N-terminal domain, the C-terminal domain is amphiphilic and has a potential to dip into the membrane.
Structure-based assembly of protein complexes in yeast.	Images of entire cells are preceding atomic structures of the separate molecular machines that they contain. The resulting gap in knowledge can be partly bridged by protein-protein interactions, bioinformatics, and electron microscopy. Here we use interactions of known three-dimensional structure to model a large set of yeast complexes, which we also screen by electron microscopy. For 54 of 102 complexes, we obtain at least partial models of interacting subunits. For 29, including the exosome, the chaperonin containing TCP-1, a 3'-messenger RNA degradation complex, and RNA polymerase II, the process suggests atomic details not easily seen by homology, involving the combination of two or more known structures. We also consider interactions between complexes (cross-talk) and use these to construct a structure-based network of molecular machines in the cell.
Novel model peptide for Atx1-like metallochaperones.	The novel cyclodecapeptide c(GMTCSGCSRP) is able to bind soft metals with a selectivity for Hg(2+) and Cu(+) over Pb(2+), Cd(2+) and Zn(2+), and is demonstrated to be an excellent structural model of the binding loop of the copper metallochaperone Atx1 in its apo and mercury loaded forms.
Distinct properties of the two putative "globular domains" of the yeast linker histone, Hho1p.	The putative linker histone in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Hho1p, has two regions of sequence (GI and GII) that are homologous to the single globular domains of linker histones H1 and H5 in higher eukaryotes. However, the two Hho1p "domains" differ with respect to the conservation of basic residues corresponding to the two putative DNA-binding sites (sites I and II) on opposite faces of the H5 globular domain. We find that GI can protect chromatosome-length DNA, like the globular domains of H1 and H5 (GH1 and GH5), but GII does not protect. However, GII, like GH1 and GH5, binds preferentially (and with higher affinity than GI) to four-way DNA junctions in the presence of excess linear DNA competitor, and binds more tightly than GI to linker-histone-depleted chromatin. Surprisingly, in 10 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7.0), GII is largely unfolded, whereas GI, like GH1 and GH5, is structured, with a high alpha-helical content. However, in the presence of high concentrations of large tetrahedral anions (phosphate, sulphate, perchlorate) GII is also folded; the anions presumably mimic DNA in screening the positive charge. This raises the possibility that chromatin-bound Hho1p may be bifunctional, with two folded nucleosome-binding domains.
Microbial genomes have over 72% structure assignment by the threading algorithm PROSPECTOR_Q.	The genome scale threading of five complete microbial genomes is revisited using our state-of-the-art threading algorithm, PROSPECTOR_Q. Considering that structure assignment to an ORF could be useful for predicting biochemical function as well as for analyzing pathways, it is important to assess the current status of genome scale threading. The fraction of ORFs to which we could assign protein structures with a reasonably good confidence level to each genome sequences is over 72%, which is significantly higher than earlier studies. Using the assigned structures, we have predicted the function of several ORFs through "single-function" template structures, obtained from an analysis of the relationship between protein fold and function. The fold distribution of the genomes and the effect of the number of homologous sequences on structure assignment are also discussed.
The ligand specificity of yeast Rad53 FHA domains at the +3 position is determined by nonconserved residues.	On the basis of the results from our laboratory and others, we recently suggested that the ligand specificity of forkhead-associated (FHA) domains is controlled by variations in three major factors: (i) residues interacting with pThr, (ii) residues recognizing the +1 to +3 residues from pThr, and (iii) an extended binding surface. While the first factor has been well established by several solution and crystal structures of FHA-phosphopeptide complexes, the structural bases of the second and third factors are not well understood and are likely to vary greatly between different FHA domains. In this work, we proposed and tested the hypothesis that nonconserved residues G133 and G135 of FHA1 and I681 and D683 of FHA2, located outside of the core FHA region of yeast Rad53 FHA domains, contribute to the specific recognition of the +3 position of different phosphopeptides. By rational mutagenesis of these residues, the specificity of FHA1 has been changed from predominantly pTXXD to be equally acceptable for pTXXD, pTXXL, and pYXL, which are similar to the specificities of the FHA2 domain of Rad53. Conversely, the +3 position specificity of FHA2 has been engineered to be more like FHA1 with the I681A mutation. These results were based on library screening as well as binding analyses of specific phosphopeptides. Furthermore, results of structural analyses by NMR indicate that some of these residues are also important for the structural integrity of the loops.
Improved energy coupling of human P-glycoprotein by the glycine 185 to valine mutation.	A glycine 185 to valine mutation of human P-glycoprotein (ABCB1, MDR1) has been previously isolated from high colchicine resistance cell lines. We have employed purified and reconstituted P-glycoproteins expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae [Figler et al. (2000) Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 376, 34-46] and devised a set of thermodynamic analyses to reveal the mechanism of improved resistance. Purified G185V enzyme shows altered basal ATPase activity but a strong stimulation of colchicine- and etoposide-dependent activities, suggesting a tight regulation of ATPase activity by these drugs. The mutant enzyme has a higher apparent K(m) for colchicine and a lower K(m) for etoposide than that of wild type. Kinetic constants for other transported drugs were not significantly modified by this mutation. Systematic thermodynamic analyses indicate that the G185V enzyme has modified thermodynamic properties of colchicine- and etoposide-dependent activities. To improve the rate of colchicine or etoposide transport, the G185V enzyme has lowered the Arrhenius activation energy of the transport rate-limiting step. The high transition state energies of wild-type P-glycoprotein, when transporting etoposide or colchicine, increase the probability of nonproductive degradation of the transition state without transport. G185V P-glycoprotein transports etoposide or colchicine in an energetically more efficient way with decreased enthalpic and entropic components of the activation energy. Our new data fully reconcile the apparently conflicting results of previous studies. EPR analysis of the spin-labeled G185C enzyme in a cysteine-less background and kinetic parameters of the G185C enzyme indicate that position 185 is surrounded by other residues and is volume sensitive. These results and atomic detail structural modeling suggest that residue 185 is a pivotal point in transmitting conformational changes between the catalytic sites and the colchicine drug binding domain. Replacement of this residue with a bulky valine alters this communication and results in more efficient transport of etoposide or colchicine.
The tricalbin C2 domains: lipid-binding properties of a novel, synaptotagmin-like yeast protein family.	The tricalbins are a recently discovered family of Saccharomyces cerevisae proteins containing a predicted N-terminal transmembrane domain and at least three C2 domains. They are thought to be yeast homologues of synaptotagmin, a hypothesis supported by structural similarities and past studies that implicated tricalbins in processes of membrane trafficking and sorting. We expressed and purified constructs consisting of single tricalbin C2 domains, and assayed their ability to bind lipids in response to calcium. Protein-lipid overlay assays indicated that the C-terminal C2 domains (C2C) of tricalbins 1 and 3 bind numerous species of acidic phospholipid, including phosphatidylserine and several phosphoinositides, and the amount of protein bound was greatly enhanced in the presence of 1 mM calcium. Sedimentation assays using mixed phosphatidylserine/phosphatidylcholine (PS/PC) vesicles confirmed that the C2C domains of tricalbin 1 and 3 bind membranes in a calcium-responsive manner and showed that they are more sensitive to calcium than the C2A domain of synaptotagmin I. Both assays revealed that all of the C2 domains of tricalbin 2 are insensitive to calcium. Fluorimetric assays exploiting the position of naturally occurring tryptophans in tricalbin 1 C2C and tricalbin 3 C2C confirmed that these domains are capable of binding calcium and that this is coupled to the binding of acidic phospholipid. Combining this with past protein-protein interaction data, we theorize that the calcium-insensitive tricalbin 2 mediates the creation of hetero-oligomeric tricalbin complexes in which tricalbin 1 or 3 or both supply a calcium-dependent membrane binding activity.
Has1p, a member of the DEAD-box family, is required for 40S ribosomal subunit biogenesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The Has1 protein, a member of the DEAD-box family of ATP-dependent RNA helicases in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, has been found by different proteomic approaches to be associated with 90S and several pre-60S ribosomal complexes. Here, we show that Has1p is an essential trans-acting factor involved in 40S ribosomal subunit biogenesis. Polysome analyses of strains genetically depleted of Has1p or carrying a temperature-sensitive has1-1 mutation show a clear deficit in 40S ribosomal subunits. Analyses of pre-rRNA processing by pulse-chase labelling, Northern hybridization and primer extension indicate that these strains form less 18S rRNA because of inhibition of processing of the 35S pre-rRNA at the early cleavage sites A0, A1 and A2. Moreover, processing of the 27SA3 and 27SB pre-rRNAs is delayed in these strains. Therefore, in addition to its role in the biogenesis of 40S ribosomal subunits, Has1p is required for the optimal synthesis of 60S ribosomal subunits. Consistent with a role in ribosome biogenesis, Has1p is localized to the nucleolus. On sucrose gradients, Has1p is associated with a high-molecular-weight complex sedimenting at positions equivalent to 60S and pre-60S ribosomal particles. A mutation in the ATP-binding motif of Has1p does not support growth of a has1 null strain, suggesting that the enzymatic activity of Has1p is required in ribosome biogenesis. Finally, sequence comparisons suggest that Has1p homologues exist in all eukaryotes, and we show that a has1 null strain can be fully complemented by the Candida albicans homologue.
Two homologous domains of similar structure but different stability in the yeast linker histone, Hho1p.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae homologue of the linker histone H1, Hho1p, has two domains that are similar in sequence to the globular domain of H1 (and variants such as H5). It is an open question whether both domains are functional and whether they play similar structural roles. Preliminary structural studies showed that the two isolated domains, GI and GII, differ significantly in stability. In 10 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7), the GI domain, like the globular domains of H1 and H5, GH1 and GH5, was stably folded, whereas GII was largely unstructured. However, at high concentrations of large tetrahedral anions (phosphate, sulphate, perchlorate), which might mimic the charge-screening effects of DNA phosphate groups, GII was folded. In view of the potential significance of these observations in relation to the role of Hho1p, we have now determined the structures of its GI and GII domains by NMR spectroscopy under conditions in which GII (like GI) is folded. The backbone r.m.s.d. over the ordered residues is 0.43 A for GI and 0.97 A for GII. Both structures show the "winged-helix" fold typical of GH1 and GH5 and are very similar to each other, with an r.m.s.d. over the structured regions of 1.3 A, although there are distinct differences. The potential for GII to adopt a structure similar to that of GI when Hho1p is bound to chromatin in vivo suggests that both globular domains might be functional. Whether Hho1p performs a structural role by bridging two nucleosomes remains to be determined.
Denaturation and renaturation of self-assembled yeast iso-1-cytochrome c on Au.	We have made surface plasmon resonance (SPR) measurements of yeast iso-1-cytochrome c (Cyt c) on a gold surface. Angle-resolved SPR curves are recorded as a function of urea concentration before and after self-assembly of the Cyt c. Exposure to a urea solution causes denaturation of Cyt c, which shifts the minimum in the SPR curve to a larger angle and decreases the signal amplitude. The Gibbs free energy change for denaturation of the protein on Au is calculated from the change of the SPR signal amplitude with urea concentration. We find that (1) Cyt c can be reversibly denatured and renatured, depending on the urea concentration, and (2) the Gibbs free energy change for denaturation of Cyt c on Au surface in water, DeltaG degrees (water), is 1.5 kcal/mol, which is approximately 4 times less than that in bulk solution.
Partial purification and characterization of nuclear exopolyphosphatase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain with inactivated PPX1 gene encoding a major yeast exopolyphosphatase.	Inactivation of PPX1 encoding the major cytosolic exopolyphosphatase PPX1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae did not alter exopolyphosphatase activity of the isolated nuclei compared with that in the parent strain. The nuclear exopolyphosphatase of the S. cerevisiae strain deficient in the PPX1 gene was purified 10-fold. According to gel filtration on Superose 6, this enzyme has a molecular mass of approximately 200 kD, and it hydrolyzes polyphosphates with an average chain length of 15 and 208 phosphate residues to the same extent. Its activity is much lower with tripolyphosphate. In the presence of 2.5 mM Mg2+, Km values are 133 and 25 microM in the hydrolysis of polyphosphates with chain lengths of 15 and 208 phosphate residues, respectively. The enzyme activity is stimulated by 2.5 mM Mg2+ and 0.1 mM Co2+ 15- and 31-fold, respectively. RNA does not alter the nuclear exopolyphosphatase activity, while polylysine increases it 2-fold.
A docking approach to the study of copper trafficking proteins; interaction between metallochaperones and soluble domains of copper ATPases.	A structural model of the transient complex between the yeast copper chaperone Atx1 and the first soluble domain of the copper transporting ATPase Ccc2 was obtained with HADDOCK, combining NMR chemical shift mapping information with in silico docking. These two proteins are involved in copper trafficking in yeast cells. Calculations were performed starting with the copper ion either bound to Atx1 or to Ccc2 and using the experimental structures of the copper-loaded and apo forms of each protein. The copper binding motifs of the two proteins are found in close proximity. Copper tends to move from Atx1 to Ccc2, consistent with the physiological direction of transfer, with concomitant structural rearrangements, in agreement with experimental observations. The interaction is mainly of an electrostatic nature with hydrogen bonds stabilizing the complex. The structural data are relevant for a number of proteins homologous to Atx1 and Ccc2 and conserved from bacteria to humans.
The N- and C-terminal mutations in tryptophan permease Tat2 confer cell growth in Saccharomyces cerevisiae under high-pressure and low-temperature conditions.	Tryptophan uptake appears to be the limiting factor in growth of tryptophan auxotrophic Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains under the conditions of high hydrostatic pressure and low temperature. When the cells are subjected to a pressure of 25 MPa, tryptophan permease Tat2 is degraded in a manner dependent on ubiquitination by Rsp5. One of the high-pressure growth-conferring genes, HPG2, was shown to be allelic to TAT2. The HPG2-1 (Tat2(E27F)) mutation site is located within the ExKS motif in the N-terminus, and the HPG2-2 (Tat2(D563N)) and HPG2-3 (Tat2(E570K)) mutation sites are located at the KQEIAE sequence in the C-terminus. The HPG2 mutations enhance the stability of Tat2 during high-pressure or low-temperature incubation, leading to cell growth under these stressful conditions. These results suggest that the cytoplasmic tails are involved in Rsp5-mediated ubiquitination of Tat2 under high-pressure or low-temperature conditions.
IA3, an aspartic proteinase inhibitor from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is intrinsically unstructured in solution.	IA(3) is a highly specific and potent 68-amino acid endogenous inhibitor of yeast proteinase A (YprA), and X-ray crystallographic studies have shown that IA(3) binds to YprA as an alpha-helix [Li, M., Phylip, L. H., Lees, W. E., Winther, J. R., Dunn, B. M., Wlodawer, A., Kay, J., and Gustchina, A. (2000) Nat. Struct. Biol. 7, 113-117]. Surprisingly, only residues 2-32 of IA(3) are seen in the X-ray structure, and the remaining residues are believed to be disordered in the complex. We have used circular dichroism (CD) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy to show that IA(3) is unstructured in the absence of YprA. Specifically, IA(3) produced a CD spectrum characteristic of an unstructured peptide, and the (15)N HSQC NMR spectra of IA(3) were characteristic of a polypeptide lacking intrinsic structure. We characterized the unstructured state of IA(3) by using singular-value decomposition (SVD) to analyze the CD data in the presence of TFE, by fully assigning the unbound IA(3) protein by NMR and comparing the chemical shifts to published random-coil values, and by measuring (1)H-(15)N heteronuclear NOEs, which are all consistent with an unfolded protein. The IA(3) samples used for NMR analyses were active and inhibited YprA with an inhibition constant (K(i)) of 1.7 nM, and the addition of YprA led to a large spectral transition in IA(3). Calorimetric (ITC) data also show that the overall enthalpy of the interaction between IA(3) and YprA is exothermic.
Evolving potassium channels by means of yeast selection reveals structural elements important for selectivity.	Potassium channels are widely distributed. To serve their physiological functions, such as neuronal signaling, control of insulin release, and regulation of heart rate and blood flow, it is essential that K+ channels allow K+ but not the smaller and more abundant Na+ ions to go through. The narrowest part of the channel pore, the selectivity filter formed by backbone carbonyls of the GYG-containing K+ channel signature sequence, approximates the hydration shell of K+ ions. However, the K+ channel signature sequence is not sufficient for K+ selectivity. To identify structural elements important for K+ selectivity, we randomly mutagenized the G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium channel 3.2 (GIRK2) bearing the S177W mutation on the second transmembrane segment. This mutation confers constitutive channel activity but abolishes K+ selectivity and hence the channel's ability to complement the K+ transport deficiency of Deltatrk1Deltatrk2 mutant yeast. S177W-containing GIRK2 mutants that support yeast growth in low-K+ medium contain multiple suppressors, each partially restoring K+ selectivity to S177W-containing double mutants. These suppressors include mutations in the first transmembrane segment and the pore helix, likely exerting long-range actions to restore K+ selectivity, as well as a mutation of a second transmembrane segment residue facing the cytoplasmic half of the pore, below the selectivity filter. Some of these suppressors also affected channel gating (channel open time and opening frequency determined in single-channel analyses), revealing intriguing interplay between ion permeation and channel gating.
Active and specific recruitment of a soluble cargo protein for endoplasmic reticulum exit in the absence of functional COPII component Sec24p.	Exit of proteins from the yeast endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is thought to occur in vesicles coated by four proteins, Sec13p, Sec31p, Sec23p and Sec24p, which assemble at ER exit sites to form the COPII coat. Sec13p may serve a structural function, whereas Sec24p has been suggested to operate in selection of cargo proteins into COPII vesicles. We showed recently that the soluble glycoprotein Hsp150 exited the ER in the absence of Sec13p function. Here we show that its ER exit did not require functional Sec24p. Hsp150 was secreted to the medium in a sec24-1 mutant at restrictive temperature 37 degrees C, while cell wall invertase and vacuolar carboxypeptidase Y remained in the ER. The determinant guiding Hsp150 to this transport route was mapped to the C-terminal domain of 114 amino acids by deletion analysis, and by an HRP fusion protein-based EM technology adapted here for yeast. This domain actively mediated ER exit of Sec24p-dependent invertase in the absence of Sec24p function. However, the domain was entirely dispensable for ER exit when Sec24p was functional. The Sec24p homolog Sfb2p was shown not to compensate for nonfunctional Sec24p in ER exit of Hsp150. Our data show that a soluble cargo protein, Hsp150, is selected actively and specifically to budding sites lacking normal Sec24p by a signature residing in its C-terminal domain.
Identification, mutational analysis, and coactivator requirements of two distinct transcriptional activation domains of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Hap4 protein.	The Hap4 protein of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae activates the transcription of genes that are required for growth on nonfermentable carbon sources. Previous reports suggested the presence of a transcriptional activation domain within the carboxyl-terminal half of Hap4 that can function in the absence of Gcn5, a transcriptional coactivator protein and histone acetyltransferase. The boundaries of this activation domain were further defined to a region encompassing amino acids 359 to 476. Within this region, several clusters of hydrophobic amino acids are critical for transcriptional activity. This activity does not require GCN5 or two other components of the SAGA coactivator complex, SPT3 and SPT8, but it does require SPT7 and SPT20. Contrary to previous reports, a Hap4 fragment comprising amino acids 1 to 330 can support the growth of yeast on lactate medium, and when tethered to lexA, can activate a reporter gene with upstream lexA binding sites, demonstrating the presence of a second transcriptional activation domain. In contrast to the C-terminal activation domain, the transcriptional activity of this N-terminal region depends on GCN5. We conclude that the yeast Hap4 protein has at least two transcriptional activation domains with strikingly different levels of dependence on specific transcriptional coactivator proteins.
The tRNA-interacting factor p43 associates with mammalian arginyl-tRNA synthetase but does not modify its tRNA aminoacylation properties.	Arginyl-tRNA synthetase (ArgRS) is one of the nine synthetase components of a multienzyme complex containing three auxiliary proteins as well. We previously established that the N-terminal moiety of the auxiliary protein p43 associates with the N-terminal, eukaryotic-specific polypeptide extension of ArgRS. Because p43 is homologous to Arc1p, a yeast general RNA-binding protein that associates with MetRS and GluRS and plays the role of tRNA-binding cofactor in the aminoacylation reaction, we analyzed the functional significance of p43-ArgRS association. We had previously showed that full-length ArgRS, corresponding to the ArgRS species associated within the multisynthetase complex, and ArgRS with a deletion of 73 N-terminal amino acid residues, corresponding to a free species of ArgRS, both produced in yeast, have similar catalytic parameters (Lazard, M., Kerjan, P., Agou, F., and Mirande, M. (2000) J. Mol. Biol. 302, 991-1004). However, a recent study had suggested that association of p43 to ArgRS reduces the apparent K(M) of ArgRS to tRNA (Park, S. G., Jung, K. H., Lee, J. S., Jo, Y. J., Motegi, H., Kim, S., and Shiba, K. (1999) J. Biol. Chem. 274, 16673-16676). In this study, we analyzed in detail, by gel retardation assays and enzyme kinetics, the putative role of p43 as a tRNA-binding cofactor of ArgRS. The association of p43 with ArgRS neither strengthened tRNA-binding nor changed kinetic parameters in the amino acid activation or in the tRNA aminoacylation reaction. Furthermore, selective removal of the C-terminal RNA-binding domain of p43 from the multisynthetase complex did not affect kinetic parameters for ArgRS. Therefore, p43 has a dual function. It promotes association of ArgRS to the complex via its N-terminal domain, but its C-terminal RNA-binding domain may act as a tRNA-interacting factor for an as yet unidentified component of the complex.
Sem1p is a novel subunit of the 26 S proteasome from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The 26 S proteasome, which catalyzes degradation of polyubiquitinated proteins, is composed of the 20 S proteasome and the 19 S regulatory particle (RP). The RP is composed of the lid and base subcomplexes and regulates the catalytic activity of the 20 S proteasome. In this study, we carried out affinity purification of the lid and base subcomplexes from the tagged strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and we found that the lid contains a small molecular mass protein, Sem1. The Sem1 protein binds with the 26 S proteasome isolated from a mutant with deletion of SEM1 but not with the 26 S proteasome from the wild type. The lid lacking Sem1 is unstable at a high salt concentration. The 19 S RP was immunoprecipitated together with Sem1 by immunoprecipitation using hemagglutinin epitope-tagged Sem1 as bait. Degradation of polyubiquitinated proteins in vivo or in vitro is impaired in the Sem1-deficient 26 S proteasome. In addition, genetic interaction between SEM1 and RPN10 was detected. The human Sem1 homologue hDSS1 was found to be a functional homologue of Sem1 and capable of interacting with the human 26 S proteasome. The results suggest that Sem1, possibly hDSS1, is a novel subunit of the 26 S proteasome and plays a role in ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis.
Asr1p, a novel yeast ring/PHD finger protein, signals alcohol stress to the nucleus.	During fermentation, yeast cells are exposed to increasing amounts of alcohol, which is stressful and affects both growth and viability. On the molecular level, numerous aspects of alcohol stress signaling remain unresolved. We have identified a novel yeast Ring/PHD finger protein that constitutively shuttles between nucleus and cytoplasm but accumulates in the nucleus upon exposure to ethanol, 2-propanol, or 1-butanol. Subcellular localization of this protein is not altered by osmotic, oxidative, or heat stress or during nitrogen or glucose starvation. Because of its exclusive sensitivity to environmental alcohol, the protein was called Asr1p for Alcohol Sensitive Ring/PHD finger 1 protein. Nuclear accumulation of Asr1p is rapid, reversible, and requires a functional Ran/Gsp1p gradient. Asr1p contains two N terminally located leucine-rich nuclear export sequences (NES) required for nuclear export. Consistently, it accumulates in the nucleus of xpo1-1 cells at restrictive temperature and forms a trimeric complex with the exportin Xpo1p and Ran-GTP. Deletion of ASR1 leads to sensitivity in growth on medium containing alcohol or detergent, consistent with a function of Asr1p in alcohol-related signaling. Asr1p is the first reported protein that changes its subcellular localization specifically upon exposure to alcohol and therefore represents a key element in the analysis of alcohol-responsive signaling.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae Hop1 zinc finger motif is the minimal region required for its function in vitro.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae meiosis-specific HOP1, which encodes a core component of synaptonemal complex, plays a key role in proper pairing of homologous chromosomes and processing of meiotic DNA double strand breaks. Isolation and analysis of hop1 mutants indicated that these functions require Cys(371) of Hop1 embedded in a region (residues 343-378) sharing homology to a zinc finger motif (ZnF). However, the precise biochemical function of Hop1, or its putative ZnF, in these processes is poorly understood. Our previous studies revealed that Hop1 is a DNA-binding protein, showed substantially higher binding affinity for G4 DNA, and enhances its formation. We report herein that ZnF appears to be sufficient for both zinc as well as DNA-binding activities. Molecular modeling studies suggested that Hop1 ZnF differs from the previously characterized natural ZnFs. The zinc-binding assay showed that the affinity for zinc is weaker for C371S ZnF mutant compared with the wild type (WT) ZnF. Analysis of CD spectra indicated that zinc and DNA induce substantial conformational changes in WT ZnF, but not in C371S ZnF mutant. The results from a number of different experimental approaches suggested that the DNA-binding properties of ZnF are similar to those of full-length Hop1 and that interaction with DNA rich in G residues is particularly robust. Significantly, WT ZnF by itself, but not C371S mutant, was able to bind duplex DNA and promote interstitial pairing of DNA double helices via the formation of guanine quartets. Together, these results implicate a direct role for Hop1 in pairing of homologous chromosomes during meiosis.
YIH1 is an actin-binding protein that inhibits protein kinase GCN2 and impairs general amino acid control when overexpressed.	The general amino acid control (GAAC) enables yeast cells to overcome amino acid deprivation by activation of the alpha subunit of translation initiation factor 2 (eIF2alpha) kinase GCN2 and consequent induction of GCN4, a transcriptional activator of amino acid biosynthetic genes. Binding of GCN2 to GCN1 is required for stimulation of GCN2 kinase activity by uncharged tRNA in starved cells. Here we show that YIH1, when overexpressed, dampens the GAAC response (Gcn- phenotype) by suppressing eIF2alpha phosphorylation by GCN2. The overexpressed YIH1 binds GCN1 and reduces GCN1-GCN2 complex formation, and, consistent with this, the Gcn- phenotype produced by YIH1 overexpression is suppressed by GCN2 overexpression. YIH1 interacts with the same GCN1 fragment that binds GCN2, and this YIH1-GCN1 interaction requires Arg-2259 in GCN1 in vitro and in full-length GCN1 in vivo, as found for GCN2-GCN1 interaction. However, deletion of YIH1 does not increase eIF2alpha phosphorylation or derepress the GAAC, suggesting that YIH1 at native levels is not a general inhibitor of GCN2 activity. We discovered that YIH1 normally resides in a complex with monomeric actin, rather than GCN1, and that a genetic reduction in actin levels decreases the GAAC response. This Gcn- phenotype was partially suppressed by deletion of YIH1, consistent with YIH1-mediated inhibition of GCN2 in actin-deficient cells. We suggest that YIH1 resides in a YIH1-actin complex and may be released for inhibition of GCN2 and stimulation of protein synthesis under specialized conditions or in a restricted cellular compartment in which YIH1 is displaced from monomeric actin.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae translational activator Cbs2p is associated with mitochondrial ribosomes.	A characteristic feature of the mitochondrial expression system in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the requirement for gene-specific translational activator proteins. Translation of mitochondrial apocytochrome b mRNA requires the nucleus-encoded proteins Cbs1p and Cbs2p. These proteins are thought to tether cytochrome b mRNA to the mitochondrial inner membrane via binding to the 5' untranslated mRNA leader. Here, we demonstrate by the use of affinity chromatography and coimmunoprecipitation that Cbs2p interacts with the mitoribosomes. We further provide evidence that the C-terminus of Cbs2p is important for ribosome association, while the N-terminal portion is essential for the formation of homomeric structures.
Evidence for an unfolding/threading mechanism for protein disaggregation by Saccharomyces cerevisiae Hsp104.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae Hsp104, a hexameric member of the Hsp100/Clp subfamily of AAA+ ATPases with two nucleotide binding domains (NBD1 and 2), refolds aggregated proteins in conjunction with Hsp70 molecular chaperones. Hsp104 may act as a "molecular crowbar" to pry aggregates apart and/or may extract proteins from aggregates by unfolding and threading them through the axial channel of the Hsp104 hexamer. Targeting Tyr-662, located in a Gly-Tyr-Val-Gly motif that forms part of the axial channel loop in NBD2, we created conservative (Phe and Trp) and non-conservative (Ala and Lys) amino acid substitutions. Each of these Hsp104 derivatives was comparable to the wild type protein in their ability to hydrolyze ATP, assemble into hexamers, and associate with heat-shock-induced aggregates in living cells. However, only those with conservative substitutions complemented the thermotolerance defect of a Deltahsp104 yeast strain and promoted refolding of aggregated protein in vitro. Monitoring fluorescence from Trp-662 showed that titration of fully assembled molecules with either ATP or ADP progressively quenches fluorescence, suggesting that nucleotide binding determines the position of the loop within the axial channel. A Glu to Lys substitution at residue 645 in the NBD2 axial channel strongly alters the nucleotide-induced change in fluorescence of Trp-662 and specifically impairs in protein refolding. These data establish that the structural integrity of the axial channel through NBD2 is required for Hsp104 function and support the proposal that Hsp104 and ClpB use analogous unfolding/threading mechanisms to promote disaggregation and refolding that other Hsp100s use to promote protein degradation.
Comprehensive chimeric analysis of amino acid residues critical for high affinity glucose transport by Hxt2 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Chimeras of Hxt2 and Hxt1, high affinity and low affinity glucose transporters, respectively, of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, were previously constructed by random replacement of each of the 12 transmembrane segments (TMs) of Hxt2 with the corresponding region of Hxt1. Characterization of these chimeras revealed that at least TMs 1, 5, 7, and 8 of Hxt2 are required for high affinity transport activity. To determine which amino acid residues in these TMs are important for high affinity glucose transport, we systematically shuffled all of the 20 residues in these regions that differ between Hxt2 and Hxt1. Analysis of 60 independent mutant strains identified as expressing high affinity and high capacity glucose transport activity by selection on glucose-limited agar plates revealed that Leu-201 in TM5 of Hxt2 is most important for such activity and that either Cys-195 or Phe-198 is also required for maximal activity.
Kinetic and mechanistic studies of a cell cycle protein phosphatase Cdc14.	The Cdc14 family of protein phosphatases is conserved within eukaryotes and antagonizes the action of cyclin-dependent kinases, thereby promoting mitotic exit and cytokinesis. We performed a detailed kinetic and mechanistic study of the Cdc14 phosphatases with both small molecule aryl phosphates and a physiological protein substrate hCdh1. We found that Cdc14 displays a strong preference for two-ringed aryl phosphates over smaller one-ringed or larger, multi-ringed substrates, a finding that may have important implications for inhibitor design. Results from both leaving group and pH dependence of the Cdc14-catalyzed reaction are consistent with a general acid-independent mechanism for substrates with leaving group pKa < 7 and a general acid-dependent mechanism for substrates with leaving group pKa > 7. The use of both low and high leaving group pKa substrates, in combination with steady-state and pre-steady-state kinetic techniques enabled the isolation and analysis of both the phosphoenzyme (E-P) formation and hydrolysis step. We established the requirement of general acid catalysis for E-P formation in reactions with high leaving group pKa substrates, and the presence of general base catalysis in E-P hydrolysis. Mutational study of invariant acidic residues in Cdc14 identified Asp253 as the general acid during E-P formation and the general base in E-P hydrolysis. We also identified several residues including Asp50, Asp129, Glu168, Glu171, and Asp177 in the Cdc14 active site cleft that are required for efficient dephosphorylation of hCdh1.
Cti6 is an Rpd3-Sin3 histone deacetylase-associated protein required for growth under iron-limiting conditions in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Iron and copper are redox active metals essential for life. In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, expression of iron and copper genes involved in metal acquisition and utilization is tightly regulated at the transcriptional level. In addition iron and copper metabolism are inextricably linked because of the dependence on copper as a co-factor for iron uptake or mobilization. To further identify genes that function in iron and copper homeostasis, we screened for novel yeast mutants defective for iron limiting growth and thereby identified the CTI6 gene. Cti6 is a PHD finger-containing protein that has been shown to participate in the interaction of the Ssn6-Tup1 co-repressor with the Gcn5-containing SAGA chromatin-remodeling complex. In this report we show that CTI6 mRNA levels are increased under iron-limiting conditions, and that cti6 mutants display a growth defect under conditions of iron deprivation. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Cti6 is a nuclear protein that functionally associates with the Rpd3-Sin3 histone deacetylase complex involved in transcriptional repression. Cti6 demonstrates Rpd3-dependent transcriptional repression, and cti6 mutants exhibit an enhanced silencing of telomeric, rDNA and HMR loci, similar to mutants in genes encoding other Rpd3-Sin3-associated proteins. Microarray experiments with cti6 mutants grown under iron-limiting conditions show a down-regulation of telomeric genes and an up-regulation of Aft1 and Tup1 target genes involved in iron and oxygen regulation. Taken together, these data suggest a specific role for Cti6 in the regulation of gene expression under conditions of iron limitation.
Specific residues of the GDP/GTP exchange factor Bud5p are involved in establishment of the cell type-specific budding pattern in yeast.	Cells of the budding yeast undergo oriented cell division by choosing a specific site for growth depending on their cell type. Haploid a and alpha cells bud in an axial pattern whereas diploid a/alpha cells bud in a bipolar pattern. The Ras-like GTPase Rsr1p/Bud1p, its GDP-GTP exchange factor Bud5p, and its GTPase-activating protein Bud2p are essential for selecting the proper site for polarized growth in all cell types. Here we showed that specific residues at the N terminus and the C terminus of Bud5p were important for bipolar budding, while some residues were involved in both axial and bipolar budding. These bipolar-specific mutations of BUD5 disrupted proper localization of Bud5p in diploid a/alpha cells without affecting Bud5p localization in haploid alpha cells. In contrast, Bud5p expressed in the bud5 mutants defective in both budding patterns failed to localize in all cell types. Thus, these results identify specific residues of Bud5p that are likely to be involved in direct interaction with spatial landmarks, which recruit Bud5p to the proper bud site. Finally, we found a new start codon of BUD5, which extends the open reading frame to 210 bp upstream of the previously estimated start site, thus encoding a polypeptide of 608 amino acid residues. Bud5p with these additional N-terminal residues interacted with Bud8p, a potential bipolar landmark, suggesting that the N-terminal region is necessary for recognition of the spatial cues.
Cargo proteins facilitate the formation of transport vesicles in the cytoplasm to vacuole targeting pathway.	Selective incorporation of cargo proteins into the forming vesicle is an important aspect of protein targeting via vesicular trafficking. Based on the current paradigm of cargo selection in vesicular transport, proteins to be sorted to other organelles are condensed at the vesicle budding site in the donor organelle, a process that is mediated by the interaction between cargo and coat proteins, which constitute part of the vesicle forming machinery. The cytoplasm to vacuole targeting (Cvt) pathway is an unconventional vesicular trafficking pathway in yeast, which is topologically and mechanistically related to autophagy. Aminopeptidase I (Ape1) is the major cargo protein of the Cvt pathway. Unlike the situation in conventional vesicular transport, precursor Ape1, along with its receptor Atg19/Cvt19, is packed into a huge complex, termed a Cvt complex, independent of the vesicle formation machinery. The Cvt complex is subsequently incorporated into the forming Cvt vesicle. The deletion of APE1 or ATG19 compromised the organization of the pre-autophagosomal structure (PAS), a site that is thought to play a critical role in Cvt vesicle/autophagosome formation. The proper organization of the PAS also required Atg11/Cvt9, a protein that localizes the cargo complex at the PAS. Accordingly, the deletion of APE1, ATG19, or ATG11 affected the formation of Cvt vesicles. These observations suggest a unique concept; in the case of the Cvt pathway, the cargo proteins facilitate receptor recruitment and vesicle formation rather than the situation with most vesicular transport, in which the forming vesicle concentrates the cargo proteins.
Mechanisms and functional properties of two peptide transporters, AtPTR2 and fPTR2.	The Arabidopsis AtPTR2 and fungal fPTR2 genes, which encode H+/dipeptide cotransporters, belong to two different subgroups of the peptide transporter (PTR) (NRT1) family. In this study, the kinetics, substrate specificity, stoichiometry, and voltage dependence of these two transporters expressed in Xenopus oocytes were investigated using the two-microelectrode voltage-clamp method. The results showed that: 1) although AtPTR2 belongs to the same PTR family subgroup as certain H+/nitrate cotransporters, neither AtPTR2 nor fPTR2 exhibited any nitrate transporting activity; 2) AtPTR2 and fPTR2 transported a wide spectrum of dipeptides with apparent affinity constants in the range of 30 microM to 3 mM, the affinity being dependent on the side chain structure of both the N- and C-terminal amino acids; 3) larger maximal currents (Imax) were evoked by positively charged dipeptides in AtPTR2- or fPTR2-injected oocytes; 4) a major difference between AtPTR2 and fPTR2 was that, whereas fPTR2 exhibited low Ala-Asp- transporting activity, AtPTR2 transported Ala-Asp- as efficiently as some of the positively charged dipeptides; 5) kinetic analysis suggested that both fPTR2 and AtPTR2 transported by a random binding, simultaneous transport mechanism. The results also showed that AtPTR2 and fPTR2 were quite distinct from PepT1 and PepT2, two well characterized animal PTR transporters in terms of order of binding of substrate and proton(s), pH sensitivity, and voltage dependence.
A combined in vitro/bioinformatic investigation of redox regulatory mechanisms governing cell cycle progression.	The intracellular reduction-oxidation (redox) environment influences cell cycle progression; however, underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. To examine potential mechanisms, the intracellular redox environment was characterized per cell cycle phase in Chinese hamster ovary fibroblasts via flow cytometry by measuring reduced glutathione (GSH), reactive oxygen species (ROS), and DNA content with monochlorobimane, 2',7'-dichlorohydrofluorescein diacetate (H2DCFDA), and DRAQ5, respectively. GSH content was significantly greater in G2/M compared with G1 phase cells, whereas GSH was intermediate in S phase cells. ROS content was similar among phases. Together, these data demonstrate that G2/M cells are more reduced than G1 cells. Conventional approaches to define regulatory mechanisms are subjective in nature and focus on single proteins/pathways. Proteome databases provide a means to overcome these inherent limitations. Therefore, a novel bioinformatic approach was developed to exhaustively identify putative redox-regulated cell cycle proteins containing redox-sensitive protein motifs. Using the InterPro (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/interpro/) database, we categorized 536 redox-sensitive motifs as: 1) active/functional-site cysteines, 2) electron transport, 3) heme, 4) iron binding, 5) zinc binding, 6) metal binding (non-Fe/Zn), and 7) disulfides. Comparing this list with 1,634 cell cycle-associated proteins from Swiss-Prot and SpTrEMBL (http://us.expasy.org/sprot/) revealed 92 candidate proteins. Three-fourths (69 of 92) of the candidate proteins function in the central cell cycle processes of transcription, nucleotide metabolism, (de)phosphorylation, and (de)ubiquitinylation. The majority of oxidant-sensitive candidate proteins (68.9%) function during G2/M phase. As the G2/M phase is more reduced than the G1 phase, oxidant-sensitive proteins may be temporally regulated by oscillation of the intracellular redox environment. Combined with evidence of intracellular redox compartmentalization, we propose a spatiotemporal mechanism that functionally links an oscillating intracellular redox environment with cell cycle progression.
Chemical clamping allows for efficient phosphorylation of the RNA carrier protein Npl3.	Protein kinases phosphorylate the appropriate protein substrate by recognizing residues both proximal and distal to the site of phosphorylation. Although these distal contacts may provide excellent binding affinities (low Km values) through stabilization of the enzyme-substrate complex, these contacts could reduce catalytic turnover (decrease kcat) through slow phosphoprotein release. To investigate how protein kinases can overcome this problem and maintain both high substrate affinities and high turnover rates, the phosphorylation of the yeast RNA transport protein Npl3 by its natural protein kinase, Sky1p, was evaluated. Sky1p bound and phosphorylated Npl3 with a Km that was 2 orders of magnitude lower than a short peptide mimic representing the phosphorylation site and only proximal determinants. Surprisingly, this extraordinary difference is not the result of high affinity Npl3 binding. Rather, Npl3 achieves a low Km through a rapid and favorable phosphoryl transfer step. This step serves as a chemical clamp that locks the protein substrate in the active site without unduly stabilizing the product phosphoprotein and slowing its release. The chemical clamping mechanism offers an efficient means whereby a protein kinase can simultaneously achieve both high turnover and good substrate binding properties.
A new alpha-helical extension promotes RNA binding by the dsRBD of Rnt1p RNAse III.	Rnt1 endoribonuclease, the yeast homolog of RNAse III, plays an important role in the maturation of a diverse set of RNAs. The enzymatic activity requires a conserved catalytic domain, while RNA binding requires the double-stranded RNA-binding domain (dsRBD) at the C-terminus of the protein. While bacterial RNAse III enzymes cleave double-stranded RNA, Rnt1p specifically cleaves RNAs that possess short irregular stem-loops containing 12-14 base pairs interrupted by internal loops and bulges and capped by conserved AGNN tetraloops. Consistent with this substrate specificity, the isolated Rnt1p dsRBD and the 30-40 amino acids that follow bind to AGNN-containing stem-loops preferentially in vitro. In order to understand how Rnt1p recognizes its cognate processing sites, we have defined its minimal RNA-binding domain and determined its structure by solution NMR spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography. We observe a new carboxy-terminal helix following a canonical dsRBD structure. Removal of this helix reduces binding to Rnt1p substrates. The results suggest that this helix allows the Rnt1p dsRBD to bind to short RNA stem-loops by modulating the conformation of helix alpha1, a key RNA-recognition element of the dsRBD.
The newly discovered Q motif of DEAD-box RNA helicases regulates RNA-binding and helicase activity.	DEAD-box proteins are the most common RNA helicases, and they are associated with virtually all processes involving RNA. They have nine conserved motifs that are required for ATP and RNA binding, and for linking phosphoanhydride cleavage of ATP with helicase activity. The Q motif is the most recently identified conserved element, and it occurs approximately 17 amino acids upstream of motif I. There is a highly conserved, but isolated, aromatic group approximately 17 amino acids upstream of the Q motif. These two elements are involved in adenine recognition and in ATPase activity of DEAD-box proteins. We made extensive analyses of the Q motif and upstream aromatic residue in the yeast translation-initiation factor Ded1. We made site-specific mutations and tested them for viability in yeast. Moreover, we purified various mutant proteins and obtained the Michaelis-Menten parameters for the ATPase activities. We also measured RNA affinities and strand-displacement activities. We find that the Q motif not only regulates ATP binding and hydrolysis but also regulates the affinity of the protein for RNA substrates and ultimately the helicase activity.
Tob38, a novel essential component in the biogenesis of beta-barrel proteins of mitochondria.	Insertion of beta-barrel proteins into the outer membrane of mitochondria is mediated by the TOB complex. Known constituents of this complex are Tob55 and Mas37. We identified a novel component, Tob38. It is essential for viability of yeast and the function of the TOB complex. Tob38 is exposed on the surface of the mitochondrial outer membrane. It interacts with Mas37 and Tob55 and is associated with Tob55 even in the absence of Mas37. The Tob38-Tob55 core complex binds precursors of beta-barrel proteins and facilitates their insertion into the outer membrane. Depletion of Tob38 results in strongly reduced levels of Tob55 and Mas37 and the residual proteins no longer form a complex. Tob38-depleted mitochondria are deficient in the import of beta-barrel precursor proteins, but not of other outer membrane proteins or proteins of other mitochondrial subcompartments. We conclude that Tob38 has a crucial function in the biogenesis of beta-barrel proteins of mitochondria.
A tethered catalysis, two-hybrid system to identify protein-protein interactions requiring post-translational modifications.	We have modified the yeast two-hybrid system to enable the detection of protein-protein interactions that require a specific post-translational modification, using the acetylation of histones and the phosphorylation of the carboxyl terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II as test modifications. In this tethered catalysis assay, constitutive modification of the protein to be screened for interactions is achieved by fusing it to its cognate modifying enzyme, with the physical linkage resulting in efficient catalysis. This catalysis maintains substrate modification even in the presence of antagonizing enzyme activities. A catalytically inactive mutant of the enzyme is fused to the substrate as a control such that the modification does not occur; this construct enables the rapid identification of modification-independent interactions. We identified proteins with links to chromatin functions that interact with acetylated histones, and proteins that participate in RNA polymerase II functions and in CTD phosphorylation regulation that interact preferentially with the phosphorylated CTD.
A 22 kDa protein specific for yeast mitochondrial nucleoids is an unidentified putative ribosomal protein encoded in open reading frame YGL068W.	Mitochondrial-nucleoid (mt-nucleoid) proteins of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Analysis of the N-terminal amino acid sequence showed that a 22 kDa protein which is unique in the mt-nucleoid fraction is an unidentified protein encoded in the open reading frame YGL068W and shows a homology with the ribosomal protein L7/L12 of bacteria. We named this protein Mnp1p (for the mitochondrial-nucleoid protein 1). Immunoblotting of each fraction with an anti-Mnp1p antibody during the mt-nucleoid isolation showed that Mnp1p is highly concentrated in the mt-nucleoid fraction. Immunofluorescence microscopy suggested that Mnp1p is localized to mitochondria in vivo, and a significant amount of Mnp1p is associated with the mt-nucleoids. On the other hand, Northern blotting showed that a large amount of large and small mitochondrial ribosomal RNAs was not associated with the mt-nucleoids and remained in the supernatant after the isolation of mt-nucleoids. The null mutation of MNP1 led to a respiratory-deficient phenotype, but the morphology of the mt-nucleoids in the transformants carrying the null mutation was normal. These results suggest that a significant amount of Mnp1p plays a role as a major component of the mt-nucleoids.
Sml1p is a dimer in solution: characterization of denaturation and renaturation of recombinant Sml1p.	Sml1p is a small 104-amino acid protein from Saccharomyces cerevisiae that binds to the large subunit (Rnr1p) of the ribonucleotide reductase complex (RNR) and inhibits its activity. During DNA damage, S phase, or both, RNR activity must be tightly regulated, since failure to control the cellular level of dNTP pools may lead to genetic abnormalities, such as genome rearrangements, or even cell death. Structural characterization of Sml1p is an important step in understanding the regulation of RNR. Until now the oligomeric state of Sml1p was unknown. Mass spectrometric analysis of wild-type Sml1p revealed an intermolecular disulfide bond involving the cysteine residue at position 14 of the primary sequence. To determine whether disulfide bonding is essential for Sml1p oligomerization, we mutated the Cys14 to serine. Sedimentation equilibrium measurements in the analytical ultracentrifuge show that both wild-type and C14S Sml1p exist as dimers in solution, indicating that the dimerization is not a result of a disulfide bond. Further studies of several truncated Sml1p mutants revealed that the N-terminal 8-20 residues are responsible for dimerization. Unfolding/refolding studies of wild-type and C14S Sml1p reveal that both proteins refold reversibly and have almost identical unfolding/refolding profiles. It appears that Sml1p is a two-domain protein where the N-terminus is responsible for dimerization and the C-terminus for binding and inhibiting Rnr1p activity.
Packaging of single DNA molecules by the yeast mitochondrial protein Abf2p: reinterpretation of recent single molecule experiments.	Brewer et al. (Biophys. J. 85 (2003) 2519-2524) have studied the compaction of dsDNA in a double flow cell by observing the extension of stained DNA tethered in buffer solutions with or without Abf2p. They use a Langmuir adsorption model in which one Abf2p molecule adsorbs on one site on the DNA, and the binding constant, K, is given as the ratio of the experimental rates of adsorption and desorption. This paper presents an improved interpretation. Instead of Langmuir adsorption we use the more appropriate McGhee-von Hippel (J. Mol. Biol. 86 (1974) 469-489) theory for the adsorption of large ligands to a one-dimensional lattice. We assume that each adsorbed molecule shortens the effective contour length of DNA by the foot print of Abf2p of 27 base pairs. When Abf2p adsorbs to DNA stretched in the flowing buffer solution, we account for a tension effect that decreases the adsorption rate and the binding constant by a factor of 2 to 4. The data suggest that the accessibility to Abf2p decreases significantly with increasing compaction of DNA, resulting in a lower adsorption rate and a lower binding constant. The kinetics reported by Brewer et al. (Biophys. J. 85 (2003) 2519-2524) lead to a binding constant K=3.6 x 10(6) M(-1) at the beginning, and to K=5 x 10(5) M(-1) near the end of a compaction run, more than an order of magnitude lower than the value K=2.57 x 10(7) M(-1) calculated by Brewer et al. (Biophys. J. 85 (2003) 2519-2524).
The mitochondrial ABC transporter Atm1p functions as a homodimer.	The ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters constitute one of the largest families of proteins in evolution. The ATM1 gene of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes an ABC protein, which is localized to the mitochondrial inner membrane. A deletion of ATM1 results in the accumulation of up to a 30-fold excess of mitochondrial iron, loss of mitochondrial cytochromes and abnormalities of cytosolic iron metabolism. In this study, we have evaluated the role of conserved sequence elements in Atm1p in its function and dimerization in vivo. We report that conserved residues in the Walker A and B motifs of the nucleotide binding domain, which are required for ATP binding and hydrolysis, are essential for Atm1p function. In addition, we provide evidence that ATP binding is important for Atm1p dimerization.
A distant evolutionary relationship between GPI-specific phospholipase D and bacterial phosphatidylcholine-preferring phospholipase C.	In eukaryotes some surface proteins are attached to the plasma membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. A GPI-specific phospholipase D (GPI-PLD) activity has been characterized and implicated in the regulation of anchoring, thereby influencing the dispersal of anchored proteins or their maintenance on the cell surface, and possibly in cell signalling. Despite its biological and medical importance, little is known of the structure of GPI-PLD. Here, a distant relationship between the catalytic domains of GPI-PLD and some bacterial phospholipases C is demonstrated. A model of the GPI-PLD catalytic site sheds light on catalysis and highlights possibilities for design of improved and more specific GPI-PLD inhibitors. The databases contain hitherto unnoticed close homologues of GPI-PLD from yeast and Dictyostelium discoideum.
Evolution and topology in the yeast protein interaction network.	The integrity of the yeast protein-protein interaction network is maintained by a few highly connected proteins, or hubs, which hold the numerous less-connected proteins together. The structural importance and the increased essentiality of these proteins suggest that they are likely to be conserved in evolution, implying a strong relationship between the number of interactions and their evolutionary distance to its orthologs in other organisms. The existence of this coherence was recently reported to strongly depend on the quality of the protein interaction and orthologs data. Here, we introduce a novel method, the evolutionary excess retention (ER), allowing us to uncover a robust and strong correlation between the conservation, essentiality, and connectivity of a yeast protein. We conclude that the relevance of the hubs for the network integrity is simultaneously reflected by a considerable probability of simultaneously being evolutionarily conserved and essential, an observation that does not have an equivalent for nonessential proteins. Providing a thorough assessment of the impact noisy and incomplete data have on our findings, we conclude that our results are largely insensitive to the quality of the utilized data.
A protein interaction framework for human mRNA degradation.	The degradation of mRNA is an important regulatory step in the control of gene expression. However, mammalian RNA decay pathways remain poorly characterized. To provide a framework for studying mammalian RNA decay, a two-hybrid protein interaction map was generated using 54 constructs from 38 human proteins predicted to function in mRNA decay. The results provide evidence for interactions between many different proteins required for mRNA decay. Of particular interest are interactions between the poly(A) ribonuclease and the exosome and between the Lsm complex, decapping factors, and 5'-->3' exonucleases. Moreover, multiple interactions connect 5'-->3' and 3'-->5' decay proteins to each other and to nonsense-mediated decay factors, providing the opportunity for coordination between decay pathways. The interaction network also predicts the internal organization of the exosome and Lsm complexes. Additional interactions connect mRNA decay factors to many novel proteins and to proteins required for other steps in gene expression. These results provide an experimental insight into the organization of proteins required for mRNA decay and their coupling to other cellular processes, and the physiological relevance of many of these interactions are supported by their evolutionary conservation. The interactions also provide a wealth of hypotheses to guide future research on mRNA degradation and demonstrate the power of exhaustive protein interaction mapping in aiding understanding of uncharacterized protein complexes and pathways.
Definitive evidence for Ufd2-catalyzed elongation of the ubiquitin chain through Lys48 linkage.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ufd2 is a ubiquitin chain elongation factor in the ubiquitin fusion degradation (UFD) pathway and functions in stress tolerance. A recent study has suggested that the mammalian Ufd2 homologue UFD2a catalyzes formation of Lys27- and Lys33-linked polyubiquitin chains rather than the Lys48-linked chain, but the linkage type of the polyubiquitin chain formed by yeast Ufd2 remains unclear. To determine the property of Ufd2, we reconstituted the UFD pathway using purified enzymes from yeast. Direct determination of the ubiquitin chain linkage type in polyubiquitinated UFD substrates by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry revealed that Ufd2 catalyzes elongation of the ubiquitin chain through Lys48 linkage.
Recognition of RNA polymerase II carboxy-terminal domain by 3'-RNA-processing factors.	During transcription, RNA polymerase (Pol) II synthesizes eukaryotic messenger RNA. Transcription is coupled to RNA processing by the carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of Pol II, which consists of up to 52 repeats of the sequence Tyr 1-Ser 2-Pro 3-Thr 4-Ser 5-Pro 6-Ser 7 (refs 1, 2). After phosphorylation, the CTD binds tightly to a conserved CTD-interacting domain (CID) present in the proteins Pcf11 and Nrd1, which are essential and evolutionarily conserved factors for polyadenylation-dependent and -independent 3'-RNA processing, respectively. Here we describe the structure of a Ser 2-phosphorylated CTD peptide bound to the CID domain of Pcf11. The CTD motif Ser 2-Pro 3-Thr 4-Ser 5 forms a beta-turn that binds to a conserved groove in the CID domain. The Ser 2 phosphate group does not make direct contact with the CID domain, but may be recognized indirectly because it stabilizes the beta-turn with an additional hydrogen bond. Iteration of the peptide structure results in a compact beta-spiral model of the CTD. The model suggests that, during the mRNA transcription-processing cycle, compact spiral regions in the CTD are unravelled and regenerated in a phosphorylation-dependent manner.
Joint X-ray and NMR refinement of the yeast L30e-mRNA complex.	L30e, a Saccharomyces cervisiae ribosomal protein, regulates its own expression by binding to a purine-rich asymmetric internal loop located in both its pre-mRNA and mature mRNA. A crystal structure of an MBP-L30e fusion protein in complex with an RNA containing the pre-mRNA regulatory site was solved at 3.24 A. Interestingly, the structure of the RNA differed from that observed in a previously determined NMR structure of the complex. Analysis of the NMR data led to the identification of a single imino proton resonance in the internal loop that had been incorrectly assigned and was principally responsible for the erroneous RNA structure. A structure refinement was performed using both the X-ray diffraction data and the NMR-derived distance and angle restraints. The joint NMR and X-ray refinement resulted in improved stereochemistry and lower crystallographic R factors. The RNA internal loop of the MBP-L30e-mRNA complex adopts the canonical K-turn fold.
Conserved network motifs allow protein-protein interaction prediction.	High-throughput protein interaction detection methods are strongly affected by false positive and false negative results. Focused experiments are needed to complement the large-scale methods by validating previously detected interactions but it is often difficult to decide which proteins to probe as interaction partners. Developing reliable computational methods assisting this decision process is a pressing need in bioinformatics.
Oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p forms a novel grapple-like structure and has an ATP-dependent F-actin conformation modifying activity in vitro.	In order to investigate the molecular mechanism of the F-actin conformation modifying activity [Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 319 (2004) 78] of actin-interacting protein 2 (Aip2p) [Nat. Struct. Biol. 2 (1995) 28]/D-lactate dehydrogenase protein 2 (Dld2p) [Yeast 15 (1999) 1377; Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 295 (2002) 910], the ultrastructure and the regulatory mechanism of the activity were further examined. Interestingly, a novel oligomeric grapple-like structure of 10-12 subunits with an ATP-dependent opening was observed. ATP regulates the opening and closing of the "gate" that forms the opening within oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p, where binding to the substrate occurs while in the open form. In the presence of ATP (open state of oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p), oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p bound the F-actin fiber within the opening, whereas in the absence of ATP (closed state of oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p), no binding was observed. Simultaneously, the oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p increased the trypsin susceptibility of F-actin in an ATP-dependent manner. Use of the non-hydrolyzable ATP analogue AMP-PNP yielded similar results to those observed with ATP, suggesting that ATP binding rather than ATP hydrolysis is required for the protein conformation modifying reaction of oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p. Endogenous Aip2p/Dld2p purified from Saccharomyces cerevisiae also exhibited such protein conformation modifying activity, but monomeric Aip2p/Dld2p with a C-terminal coiled-coil region-truncation failed to exhibit the activity. These data suggest that the oligomerization of Aip2p/Dld2p, which exhibits the unique grapple-like structure with an ATP-dependent opening, is required for the F-actin conformation modifying activity.
Structural analysis of the stalk subunit Vma5p of the yeast V-ATPase in solution.	Vma5p (subunit C) of the yeast V-ATPase was produced in Escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity. Analysis of secondary structure by circular dichroism spectroscopy showed that Vma5p comprises 64% alpha-helix and 17% beta-sheet content. The molecular mass of this subunit, determined by gel filtration analysis and small angle X-ray scattering (SAXS), was approximately 51+/-4 kDa, indicating a high hydration level of the protein in solution. The radius of gyration and the maximum size of Vma5p were determined to be 3.74+/-0.03 and 12.5+/-0.1 nm, respectively. Using two independent ab initio approaches, the first low-resolution shape of the protein was determined. Vma5p is an elongated boot-shaped particle consisting of two distinct domains. Co-reconstitution of Vma5p to V1 without C from Manduca sexta resulted in a V1-Vma5p hybrid complex and a 20% increase in ATPase hydrolysis activity.
Mechanistic analysis of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae kinesin Kar3.	Kar3 is a minus-end-directed microtubule motor that is implicated in meiotic and mitotic spindle function in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. To date, the only truncated protein of Kar3 that has been reported to promote unidirectional movement in vitro is GSTKar3. This motor contains an NH2-terminal glutathione S-transferase (GST) tag followed by the Kar3 sequence that is predicted to form an extended alpha-helical coiled-coil. The alpha-helical domain leads into the neck linker and COOH-terminal motor domain. Kar3 does not homodimerize with itself but forms a heterodimer with either Cik1 or Vik1, both of which are non-motor polypeptides. We evaluated the microtubule-GSTKar3 complex in comparison to the microtubule-Kar3 motor domain complex to determine the distinctive mechanistic features required for GSTKar3 motility. Our results indicate that ATP binding was significantly faster for GSTKar3 than that observed previously for the Kar3 motor domain. In addition, microtubule-activated ADP release resulted in an intermediate that bound ADP weakly in contrast to the Kar3 motor domain, suggesting that after ADP release, the microtubule-GSTKar3 motor binds ATP in preference to ADP. The kinetics also showed that GST-Kar3 readily detached from the microtubule rather than remaining bound for multiple ATP turnovers. These results indicate that the extended alpha-helical domain NH2-terminal to the catalytic core provides the structural transitions in response to the ATPase cycle that are critical for motility and that dimerization is not specifically required. This study provides the foundation to define the mechanistic contributions of Cik1 and Vik1 for Kar3 force generation and function in vivo.
Hsp104 binds to yeast Sup35 prion fiber but needs other factor(s) to sever it.	The interaction of Hsp104 with yeast prion fibers made of Sup35NM, a prion-inducing domain of Sup35, was tested. When fluorescently labeled Hsp104 was added to the preformed fibers, individual fibers were fluorescently decorated uniformly along the fiber length. However, the density of fluorescence differed from one fiber to another, indicating the presence of subspecies of Sup35NM fibers. The time course of fiber formation from monomer Sup35NM was delayed by Hsp104. Hsp104-mediated fragmentation of fibers was tested using bead-tethered fibers. In contrast with the recent report (Shorter, J., and Lindquist, S. (2004) Science 304, 1793-1797), Hsp104 alone was unable to sever the fibers. Yeast cell lysate or the Hsp104-deficient cell lysate plus Hsp104 caused ATP-dependent, guanidine hydrochloride-sensitive fragmentation of the fibers. Thus, in our experimental setup, Hsp104 plus other factor(s) in the yeast cytosol are required for severing yeast prion fiber. The reason of discrepancy from the above report is unknown but is possibly caused by different conformational subspecies of prion fibers.
The mode of action of centrin. Binding of Ca2+ and a peptide fragment of Kar1p to the C-terminal domain.	Centrin is an EF-hand calcium-binding protein closely related to the prototypical calcium sensor protein calmodulin. It is found in microtubule-organizing centers of organisms ranging from algae and yeast to man. In vitro, the C-terminal domain of centrin binds to the yeast centrosomal protein Kar1p in a calcium-dependent manner, whereas the N-terminal domain does not show any appreciable affinity for Kar1p. To obtain deeper insights into the structural basis for centrin's function, we have characterized the affinities of the C-terminal domain of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii centrin for calcium and for a peptide fragment of Kar1p using CD, fluorescence, and NMR spectroscopy. Calcium binding site IV in C. reinhardtii centrin was found to bind Ca2+ approximately 100-fold more strongly than site III. In the absence of Ca2+, the protein occupies a mixture of closed conformations. Binding of a single ion in site IV is sufficient to radically alter the conformational equilibrium, promoting occupancy of an open conformation. However, an exchange between closed and open conformations remains even at saturating levels of Ca2+. The population of the open conformation is substantially stabilized by the presence of the target peptide Kar1p-(239-257) to a point where a single ion bound in site IV is sufficient to completely shift the conformational equilibrium to the open conformation. This is reflected in the enhancement of the Ca2+ affinity in this site by more than an order of magnitude. These data confirm the direct coupling of the Ca2+ binding-induced shift in the equilibrium between the closed and open conformations to the binding of the peptide. Combined with the common localization of the two proteins in the microtubule organizing center, our results suggest that centrin is constitutively bound to Kar1p through its C-terminal domain and that centrin's calcium sensor activities are mediated by the N-terminal domain.
Nuclear monothiol glutaredoxins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae can function as mitochondrial glutaredoxins.	Glutaredoxins are thiol oxidoreductases that regulate protein redox state. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Grx1 and Grx2 are cytosolic dithiol glutaredoxins, whereas Grx3, Grx4, and Grx5 are monothiol glutaredoxins. Grx5 locates at the mitochondrial matrix and is needed for iron/sulfur cluster biogenesis. Its absence causes phenotypes such as inactivation of iron/sulfur enzymes and sensitivity to oxidative stress. Whereas Grx5 contains a single glutaredoxin domain, in Grx3 and Grx4 a thioredoxin-like domain is fused to the glutaredoxin domain. Here we have shown that Grx3 locates at the nucleus and that the thioredoxin-like domain is required for such location. We have addressed the functional divergence among glutaredoxins by targeting Grx2/3/4 molecules to the mitochondrial matrix using the Grx5 targeting sequence. The mitochondrial forms of Grx3 and Grx4 partially rescue the defects of a grx5 null mutant. On the contrary, mitochondrially targeted Grx2 does not suppress the mutant phenotype. Both the thioredoxin-like and glutaredoxin domains are needed for the mitochondrial activity of Grx3, although none of the cysteine residues at the thioredoxin-like domain is required for rescue of the grx5 phenotypes. We have concluded that dithiol glutaredoxins are functionally divergent from monothiol ones, but the latter can interchange their biological activities when compartment barriers are surpassed.
The [URE3] yeast prion results from protein aggregates that differ from amyloid filaments formed in vitro.	The [URE3] yeast prion is a self-propagating inactive form of the Ure2 protein. Ure2p is composed of two domains, residues 1-93, the prion-forming domain, and the remaining C-terminal part of the protein, which forms the functional domain involved in nitrogen catabolite repression. In vitro, Ure2p forms amyloid filaments that have been proposed to be the aggregated prion form found in vivo. Here we showed that the biochemical characteristics of these two species differ. Protease digestions of Ure2p filaments and soluble Ure2p are comparable when analyzed by Coomassie staining as by Western blot. However, this finding does not explain the pattern specifically observed in [URE3] strains. Antibodies raised against the C-terminal part of Ure2p revealed the existence of proteolysis sites efficiently cleaved when [URE3], but not wild-type crude extracts, were submitted to limited proteolysis. The same antibodies lead to an equivalent digestion pattern when recombinant Ure2p (either soluble or amyloid) was analyzed in the same way. These results strongly suggest that aggregated Ure2p in [URE3] yeast cells is different from the amyloid filaments generated in vitro.
Specificity of prion assembly in vivo. [PSI+] and [PIN+] form separate structures in yeast.	The yeast prions [PSI+] and [PIN+] are self-propagating amyloid aggregates of the Gln/Asn-rich proteins Sup35p and Rnq1p, respectively. Like the mammalian PrP prion "strains," [PSI+] and [PIN+] exist in different conformations called variants. Here, [PSI+] and [PIN+] variants were used to model in vivo interactions between co-existing heterologous amyloid aggregates. Two levels of structural organization, like those previously described for [PSI+], were demonstrated for [PIN+]. In cells with both [PSI+] and [PIN+] the two prions formed separate structures at both levels. Also, the destabilization of [PSI+] by certain [PIN+] variants was shown not to involve alterations in the [PSI+] prion size. Finally, when two variants of the same prion that have aggregates with distinct biochemical characteristics were combined in a single cell, only one aggregate type was propagated. These studies demonstrate the intracellular organization of yeast prions and provide insight into the principles of in vivo amyloid assembly.
Multiple interactions with the Rad51 recombinase govern the homologous recombination function of Rad54.	In eukaryotes, Rad51 and Rad54 functionally cooperate to mediate homologous recombination and the repair of damaged chromosomes by recombination. Rad51, the eukaryotic counterpart of the bacterial RecA recombinase, forms filaments on single-stranded DNA that are capable of pairing the bound DNA with a homologous double-stranded donor to yield joint molecules. Rad54 enhances the homologous DNA pairing reaction, and this stimulatory effect involves a physical interaction with Rad51. Correspondingly, the ability of Rad54 to hydrolyze ATP and introduce superhelical tension into covalently closed circular plasmid DNA is stimulated by Rad51. By controlled proteolysis, we show that the amino-terminal region of yeast Rad54 is rather unstructured. Truncation mutations that delete the N-terminal 113 or 129 amino acid residues of Rad54 attenuate or ablate physical and functional interactions with Rad51 under physiological ionic strength, respectively. Surprisingly, under less stringent conditions, the Rad54 Delta129 protein can interact with Rad51 in affinity pull-down and functional assays. These results highlight the functional importance of the N-terminal Rad51 interaction domain of Rad54 and reveal that Rad54 contacts Rad51 through separable epitopes.
Co-chaperone regulation of conformational switching in the Hsp90 ATPase cycle.	ATP hydrolysis by the Hsp90 molecular chaperone requires a connected set of conformational switches triggered by ATP binding to the N-terminal domain in the Hsp90 dimer. Central to this is a segment of the structure, which closes like a "lid" over bound ATP, promoting N-terminal dimerization and assembly of a competent active site. Hsp90 mutants that influence these conformational switches have strong effects on ATPase activity. ATPase activity is specifically regulated by Hsp90 co-chaperones, which directly influence the conformational switches. Here we have analyzed the effect of Hsp90 mutations on binding (using isothermal titration calorimetry and difference circular dichroism) and ATPase regulation by the co-chaperones Aha1, Sti1 (Hop), and Sba1 (p23). The ability of Sti1 to bind Hsp90 and arrest its ATPase activity was not affected by any of the mutants screened. Sba1 bound in the presence of AMPPNP to wild-type and ATPase hyperactive mutants with similar affinity but only very weakly to hypoactive mutants despite their wild-type ATP affinity. Unexpectedly, in all cases Sba1 bound to Hsp90 with a 1:2 molar stoichiometry. Aha1 binding to mutants was similar to wild-type, but the -fold activation of their ATPase varied substantially between mutants. Analysis of complex formation with co-chaperone mixtures showed Aha1 and p50cdc37 able to bind Hsp90 simultaneously but without direct interaction. Sba1 and p50cdc37 bound independently to Hsp90-AMPPNP but not together. These data indicated that Sba1 and Aha1 regulate Hsp90 by influencing the conformational state of the "ATP lid" and consequent N-terminal dimerization, whereas Sti1 does not.
A single PXY motif located within the carboxyl terminus of Spt23p and Mga2p mediates a physical and functional interaction with ubiquitin ligase Rsp5p.	Proteasome-dependent processing of the endoplasmic reticulum localized transcription factor Spt23p of Saccharomyces cerevisiae generates its transcriptionally competent form and requires the WW domain containing Rsp5p ubiquitin ligase. Although previous studies documented an Rsp5p-Spt23p association in cells, very little is known about the nature of this interaction. We report here the identification of an imperfect type I WW domain-binding site (LPKY) within the carboxyl-terminal region of Spt23p that is required for Rsp5p binding in vitro and in vivo. Deletion of this motif abrogates Rsp5p-induced ubiquitination of Spt23p in vitro and reduces ubiquitination of the Spt23p precursor in yeast. In addition, the Spt23pDeltaLPKY mutant is inefficiently processed and is defective at up-regulating target gene (OLE1) expression in cells. Deletion of the corresponding LPKY site within Mga2p, an Spt23p homologue, also abrogates Rsp5p binding and Rsp5p-dependent ubiquitination in vitro as well as Rsp5p binding and Mga2p polyubiquitination in cells. However, the Mga2pDeltaLPKY mutant undergoes efficient proteasome-dependent processing. These experiments indicate that the LPKY motif of Spt23p is required for Rsp5p binding, Rsp5-induced ubiquitination, proteasome-dependent processing, and its OLE1 inducing function. They also suggest that the LPKY motif of Mga2p is required for Rsp5p binding and ubiquitination, and Rsp5p regulates Mga2p function by a mechanism that is independent of providing the partial degradation signal.
Pseudouridylation at position 32 of mitochondrial and cytoplasmic tRNAs requires two distinct enzymes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Cytoplasmic and mitochondrial tRNAs contain several pseudouridylation sites, and the tRNA:Psi-synthase acting at position 32 had not been identified in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. By combining genetic and biochemical analyses, we demonstrate that two enzymes, Rib2/Pus8p and Pus9p, are required for Psi32 formation in cytoplasmic and mitochondrial tRNAs, respectively. Pus9p acts mostly in mitochondria, and Rib2/Pus8p is strictly cytoplasmic. This is the first case reported so far of two distinct tRNA modification enzymes acting at the same position but present in two different compartments. This peculiarity may be the consequence of a gene fusion that occurred during yeast evolution. Indeed, Rib2/Pus8p displays two distinct catalytic activities involved in completely unrelated metabolism: its C-terminal domain has a DRAP-deaminase activity required for riboflavin biogenesis in the cytoplasm, whereas its N-terminal domain carries the tRNA:Psi32-synthase activity. Pus9p has only a tRNA:Psi32-synthase activity and contains a characteristic mitochondrial targeting sequence at its N terminus. These results are discussed in terms of RNA:Psi-synthase evolution.
DNA binding domain in the replication checkpoint protein Mrc1 of Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	The replication checkpoint is activated when replication forks are obstructed by DNA lesions or protein complexes bound to DNA or when DNA synthesis is restrained by the limited availability of deoxyribonucleotides. This checkpoint preserves genome integrity by stabilizing stalled forks and delaying the onset of mitosis. In the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, Mrc1 is a replication checkpoint adaptor protein that allows the sensor kinase Rad3-Rad26 to activate the effector kinase Cds1. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Mrc1 associates with replication forks and co-precipitates with the DNA replication protein Cdc45. Whether or not Mrc1 interacts directly with DNA is unknown. Here we define a approximately 150 amino acid DNA binding domain (DBD) in the N-terminal region of S. pombe Mrc1. The DBD interacts preferentially with branched DNA structures in vitro. Deletion of the DBD or point mutations that diminish its DNA binding activity render cells sensitive to the replication inhibitor hydroxyurea. These mutations also impair the replication checkpoint arrest. The DBD has a helix-loop-helix motif that is predicted to bind DNA. This motif is conserved in the recently identified N-terminal DBD of human Claspin, a presumptive homolog of yeast Mrc1 proteins.
How the Rgt1 transcription factor of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is regulated by glucose.	Rgt1 is a transcription factor that regulates expression of HXT genes encoding glucose transporters in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Rgt1 represses HXT gene expression in the absence of glucose; high levels of glucose cause Rgt1 to activate expression of HXT1. We identified four functional domains of Rgt1. A domain required for transcriptional repression (amino acids 210-250) is required for interaction of Rgt1 with the Ssn6 corepressor. Another region of Rgt1 (320-380) is required for normal transcriptional activation, and sequences flanking this region (310-320 and 400-410) regulate this function. A central region (520-830) and a short sequence adjacent to the zinc cluster DNA-binding domain (80-90) inhibit transcriptional repression when glucose is present. We found that this middle region of Rgt1 physically interacts with the N-terminal portion of the protein that includes the DNA-binding domain. This interaction is inhibited by the Rgt1 regulator Mth1, which binds to Rgt1. Our results suggest that Mth1 promotes transcriptional repression by Rgt1 by binding to it and preventing the intramolecular interaction, probably by preventing phosphorylation of Rgt1, thereby enabling Rgt1 to bind to DNA. Glucose induces HXT1 gene expression by causing Mth1 degradation, allowing Rgt1 phosphorylation, and leading to the intramolecular interaction that inhibits DNA binding of Rgt1.
Manganese toxicity and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mam3p, a member of the ACDP (ancient conserved domain protein) family.	Manganese is an essential, but potentially toxic, trace metal in biological systems. Overexposure to manganese is known to cause neurological deficits in humans, but the pathways that lead to manganese toxicity are largely unknown. We have employed the bakers' yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model system to identify genes that contribute to manganese-related damage. In a genetic screen for yeast manganese-resistance mutants, we identified S. cerevisiae MAM3 as a gene which, when deleted, would increase cellular tolerance to toxic levels of manganese and also increased the cell's resistance towards cobalt and zinc. By sequence analysis, Mam3p shares strong similarity with the mammalian ACDP (ancient conserved domain protein) family of polypeptides. Mutations in human ACDP1 have been associated with urofacial (Ochoa) syndrome. However, the functions of eukaryotic ACDPs remain unknown. We show here that S. cerevisiae MAM3 encodes an integral membrane protein of the yeast vacuole whose expression levels directly correlate with the degree of manganese toxicity. Surprisingly, Mam3p contributes to manganese toxicity without any obvious changes in vacuolar accumulation of metals. Furthermore, through genetic epistasis studies, we demonstrate that MAM3 operates independently of the well-established manganese-trafficking pathways in yeast, involving the manganese transporters Pmr1p, Smf2p and Pho84p. This is the first report of a eukaryotic ACDP family protein involved in metal homoeostasis.
Signal-anchored proteins follow a unique insertion pathway into the outer membrane of mitochondria.	Signal-anchored proteins are a class of mitochondrial outer membrane proteins that expose a hydrophilic domain to the cytosol and are anchored to the membrane by a single transmembrane domain in the N-terminal region. Like the vast majority of mitochondrial proteins, signal-anchored proteins are synthesized on cytosolic ribosomes and are subsequently imported into the organelle. We have studied the mechanisms by which precursors of these proteins are recognized by the mitochondria and are inserted into the outer membrane. The import of signal-anchored proteins was found to be independent of the known import receptors, Tom20 and Tom70, but to require the major Tom component, Tom40. In contrast to precursors destined to internal compartments of mitochondria and those of outer membrane beta-barrel proteins, precursors of signal-anchored proteins appear not to be inserted via the general import pore. Taken together, we propose a novel pathway for insertion of these proteins into the outer membrane of mitochondria.
The glutamine residue of the conserved GGQ motif in Saccharomyces cerevisiae release factor eRF1 is methylated by the product of the YDR140w gene.	Polypeptide release factors from eubacteria and eukaryotes, although similar in function, belong to different protein families. They share one sequence motif, a GGQ tripeptide that is vital to release factor (RF) activity in both kingdoms. In bacteria, the Gln residue of the motif in RF1 and RF2 is modified to N(5)-methyl-Gln by the S-adenosyl l-methionine-dependent methyltransferase PrmC and the absence of Gln methylation decreases the release activity of Escherichia coli RF2 in vitro severalfold. We show here that the same modification is made to the GGQ motif of Saccharomyces cerevisiae release factor eRF1, the first time that N(5)-methyl-Gln has been found outside the bacterial kingdom. The product of the YDR140w gene is required for the methylation of eRF1 in vivo and for optimal yeast cell growth. YDR140w protein has significant homology to PrmC but lacks the N-terminal domain thought to be involved in the recognition of the bacterial release factors. Overproduced in S. cerevisiae, YDR140w can methylate eRF1 from yeast or man in vitro using S-adenosyl l-methionine as methyl donor provided that eRF3 and GTP are also present, suggesting that the natural substrate of the methyltransferase YDR140w is the ternary complex eRF1.eRF3.GTP.
Formation of membrane-bound ring complexes by prohibitins in mitochondria.	Prohibitins comprise a remarkably conserved protein family in eukaryotic cells with proposed functions in cell cycle progression, senescence, apoptosis, and the regulation of mitochondrial activities. Two prohibitin homologues, Phb1 and Phb2, assemble into a high molecular weight complex of approximately 1.2 MDa in the mitochondrial inner membrane, but a nuclear localization of Phb1 and Phb2 also has been reported. Here, we have analyzed the biogenesis and structure of the prohibitin complex in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Both Phb1 and Phb2 subunits are targeted to mitochondria by unconventional noncleavable targeting sequences at their amino terminal end. Membrane insertion involves binding of newly imported Phb1 to Tim8/13 complexes in the intermembrane space and is mediated by the TIM23-translocase. Assembly occurs via intermediate-sized complexes of approximately 120 kDa containing both Phb1 and Phb2. Conserved carboxy-terminal coiled-coil regions in both subunits mediate the formation of large assemblies in the inner membrane. Single particle electron microscopy of purified prohibitin complexes identifies diverse ring-shaped structures with outer dimensions of approximately 270 x 200 angstroms. Implications of these findings for proposed cellular activities of prohibitins are discussed.
Remote hot spots mediate protein substrate recognition for the Cdc25 phosphatase.	Cdc25B is a phosphatase that catalyzes the dephosphorylation and activation of the cyclin-dependent kinases, thus driving cell cycle progression. We have identified two residues, R488 and Y497, located >20 A from the active site, that mediate protein substrate recognition without affecting activity toward small-molecule substrates. Injection of Cdc25B wild-type but not the R488L or Y497A variants induces germinal vesicle breakdown and cyclin-dependent kinase activation in Xenopus oocytes. The conditional knockout of the cdc25 homolog (mih1) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae can be complemented by the wild type but not by the hot spot variants, indicating that protein substrate recognition by the Cdc25 phosphatases is an essential and evolutionarily conserved feature.
Crystal structure of yeast V-ATPase subunit C reveals its stator function.	Vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) has a crucial role in the vacuolar system of eukaryotic cells. It provides most of the energy required for transport systems that utilize the proton-motive force that is generated by ATP hydrolysis. Some, but not all, of the V-ATPase subunits are homologous to those of F-ATPase and the nonhomologous subunits determine the unique features of V-ATPase. We determined the crystal structure of V-ATPase subunit C (Vma5p), which does not show any homology with F-ATPase subunits, at 1.75 A resolution. The structural features suggest that subunit C functions as a flexible stator that holds together the catalytic and membrane sectors of the enzyme. A second crystal form that was solved at 2.9 A resolution supports the flexible nature of subunit C. These structures provide a framework for exploring the unique mechanistic features of V-ATPases.
Xrs2p regulates Mre11p translocation to the nucleus and plays a role in telomere elongation and meiotic recombination.	The Mre11-Rad50-Xrs2 (MRX) protein complex plays pivotal roles in meiotic recombination, repair of damaged DNA, telomere elongation, and cell cycle checkpoint control. Xrs2p is known to be essential for all the functions of the complex, but its role in the complex has not been clearly elucidated. A 32-amino acid region near the C terminus of Xrs2p was identified as an Mre11p-binding site. No more function of Xrs2p than translocation of Mre11p from the cytoplasm to the nucleus is necessary for response to DNA damage. However, domains in Xrs2p located both 49 amino acids upstream and 104 amino acids downstream of the Mre11p binding site are required for meiotic recombination and telomere elongation, respectively, in addition to the 32-amino acid region. These findings demonstrate that Xrs2p acts as a specificity factor that allows the MRX complex to function in meiotic recombination and in telomere elongation.
Heterocyclic peptide backbone modifications in an alpha-helical coiled coil.	In this paper, we present 1,2,3-triazole epsilon2-amino acids incorporated as a dipeptide surrogate at three positions in the sequence of a known alpha-helical coiled coil. Biophysical characterization indicates that the modified peptides retain much of the helical structure of the parent sequence, and that the thermodynamic stability of the coiled coil depends on the position of the incorporation of the epsilon-residue. Crystal structures obtained for each peptide give insight into the chemical behavior and conformational preferences of the non-natural amino acid and show that the triazole ring can participate in the backbone hydrogen bonding of the alpha-helix as well as template an interhelical crossing between chains in the bundle.
The yeast par-1 homologs kin1 and kin2 show genetic and physical interactions with components of the exocytic machinery.	Kin1 and Kin2 are Saccharomyces cerevisiae counterparts of Par-1, the Caenorhabditis elegans kinase essential for the establishment of polarity in the one cell embryo. Here, we present evidence for a novel link between Kin1, Kin2, and the secretory machinery of the budding yeast. We isolated KIN1 and KIN2 as suppressors of a mutant form of Rho3, a Rho-GTPase acting in polarized trafficking. Genetic analysis suggests that KIN1 and KIN2 act downstream of the Rab-GTPase Sec4, its exchange factor Sec2, and several components of the vesicle tethering complex, the Exocyst. We show that Kin1 and Kin2 physically interact with the t-SNARE Sec9 and the Lgl homologue Sro7, proteins acting at the final stage of exocytosis. Structural analysis of Kin2 reveals that its catalytic activity is essential for its function in the secretory pathway and implicates the conserved 42-amino acid tail at the carboxy terminal of the kinase in autoinhibition. Finally, we find that Kin1 and Kin2 induce phosphorylation of t-SNARE Sec9 in vivo and stimulate its release from the plasma membrane. In summary, we report the finding that yeast Par-1 counterparts are associated with and regulate the function of the exocytic apparatus via phosphorylation of Sec9.
Loss of function of KRE5 suppresses temperature sensitivity of mutants lacking mitochondrial anionic lipids.	Disruption of PGS1, which encodes the enzyme that catalyzes the committed step of cardiolipin (CL) synthesis, results in loss of the mitochondrial anionic phospholipids phosphatidylglycerol (PG) and CL. The pgs1Delta mutant exhibits severe growth defects at 37 degrees C. To understand the essential functions of mitochondrial anionic lipids at elevated temperatures, we isolated suppressors of pgs1Delta that grew at 37 degrees C. One of the suppressors has a loss of function mutation in KRE5, which is involved in cell wall biogenesis. The cell wall of pgs1Delta contained markedly reduced beta-1,3-glucan, which was restored in the suppressor. Stabilization of the cell wall with osmotic support alleviated the cell wall defects of pgs1Delta and suppressed the temperature sensitivity of all CL-deficient mutants. Evidence is presented suggesting that the previously reported inability of pgs1Delta to grow in the presence of ethidium bromide was due to defective cell wall integrity, not from "petite lethality." These findings demonstrated that mitochondrial anionic lipids are required for cellular functions that are essential in cell wall biogenesis, the maintenance of cell integrity, and survival at elevated temperature.
Purification and characterization of alpha-keto amide reductase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	An NADPH-dependent alpha-keto amide reductase was purified from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The molecular mass of the native enzyme was estimated to be 33 and 36 kDa by gel filtration chromatography and SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, respectively. The purified enzyme showed a reducing activity not only for aromatic alpha-keto amides but also for aliphatic and aromatic alpha-keto esters. The internal sequence of the enzyme was identical with that of a hypothetical protein (ORF YDL 124w) coded by yeast chromosome IV.
Twisting of the second transmembrane alpha-helix of the mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier during the transition between two carrier conformational states.	To investigate the structural and functional features of the second alpha-helical transmembrane segment (TM2) of the mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier (AAC), we adopted cysteine scanning mutagenesis analysis. Single-cysteine mutations of yeast AAC were systematically introduced at residues 98-106 in TM2, and the mutants were treated with the fluorescent SH reagent eosin-5-maleimide (EMA). EMA modified different amino acid residues of alpha-helical TM2 between the two distinct carrier conformations, called the m-state and the c-state, in which the substrate recognition site faces the matrix and cytosol, respectively. When amino acids in the helix were projected on a wheel plot, these EMA-modified amino acids were observed at distinct sides of the wheel. Since the SH reagent specifically modified cysteine in the water-accessible environment, these results indicate that distinct helical surfaces of TM2 faced the water-accessible space between the two conformations, possibly as a result of twisting of this helix. In the recently reported crystal structure of bovine AAC, several amino acids faced cocrystallized carboxyatractyloside (CATR), a specific inhibitor of the carrier. These residues correspond to those modified with EMA in the yeast carrier in the c-state. Since the binding site of CATR is known to overlap that of the transport substrate, the water-accessible space was thought to be a substrate transport pathway, and hence, the observed twisting of TM2 between the m-state and the c-state may be involved in the process of substrate translocation. On the basis of the results, the roles of TM2 in the transport function of AAC were discussed.
DNA cross-link repair protein SNM1A interacts with PIAS1 in nuclear focus formation.	The yeast SNM1/PSO2 gene specifically functions in DNA interstrand cross-link (ICL) repair, and its role has been suggested to be separate from other DNA repair pathways. In vertebrates, there are three homologs of SNM1 (SNM1A, SNM1B, and SNM1C/Artemis; SNM1 family proteins) whose functions are largely unknown. We disrupted each of the SNM1 family genes in the chicken B-cell line DT40. Both SNM1A- and SNM1B-deficient cells were sensitive to cisplatin but not to X-rays, whereas SNM1C/Artemis-deficient cells exhibited sensitivity to X-rays but not to cisplatin. SNM1A was nonepistatic with XRCC3 (homologous recombination), RAD18 (translesion synthesis), FANCC (Fanconi anemia), and SNM1B in ICL repair. SNM1A protein formed punctate nuclear foci depending on the conserved SNM1 (metallo-beta-lactamase) domain. PIAS1 was found to physically interact with SNM1A, and they colocalized at nuclear foci. Point mutations in the SNM1 domain, which disrupted the interaction with PIAS1, led to mislocalization of SNM1A in the nucleus and loss of complementation of snm1a cells. These results suggest that interaction between SNM1A and PIAS1 is required for ICL repair.
Counting of Rif1p and Rif2p on Saccharomyces cerevisiae telomeres regulates telomere length.	Telomere length is negatively regulated by proteins of the telomeric DNA-protein complex. Rap1p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae binds the telomeric TG(1-3) repeat DNA, and the Rap1p C terminus interacts with Rif1p and Rif2p. We investigated how these three proteins negatively regulate telomere length. We show that direct tethering of each Rif protein to a telomere shortens that telomere proportionally to the number of tethered molecules, similar to previously reported counting of Rap1p. Surprisingly, Rif proteins could also regulate telomere length even when the Rap1p C terminus was absent, and tethered Rap1p counting was completely dependent on the Rif proteins. Thus, Rap1p counting is in fact Rif protein counting. In genetic settings that cause telomeres to be abnormally long, tethering even a single Rif2p molecule was sufficient for maximal effectiveness in preventing the telomere overelongation. We show that a heterologous protein oligomerization domain, the mammalian PDZ domain, when fused to Rap1p can confer telomere length control. We propose that a nucleation and spreading mechanism is involved in forming the higher-order telomere structure that regulates telomere length.
The N-terminal domain of Nup159 forms a beta-propeller that functions in mRNA export by tethering the helicase Dbp5 to the nuclear pore.	Nuclear export of mRNA in eukaryotic cells is mediated by soluble transport factors and components of the nuclear pore complex (NPC). The cytoplasmically oriented nuclear pore protein Nup159 plays a critical role in mRNA export through its conserved N-terminal domain (NTD). Here, we report the crystal structure of the Nup159 NTD, refined to 2.5 A. The structure reveals an unusually asymmetric seven-bladed beta-propeller that is structurally conserved throughout eukarya. Using structure-based conservation analysis, we have targeted specific surface residues for mutagenesis. Residue substitutions in a conserved loop of the NTD abolish in vitro binding to Dbp5, a DEAD box helicase required for mRNA export. In vivo, these mutations cause Dbp5 mislocalization and block mRNA export. These findings suggest that the Nup159 NTD functions in mRNA export as a binding platform, tethering shuttling Dbp5 molecules at the nuclear periphery and locally concentrating this mRNA remodeling factor at the cytoplasmic face of the NPC.
Interaction of Sla2p's ANTH domain with PtdIns(4,5)P2 is important for actin-dependent endocytic internalization.	A variety of studies have implicated the lipid PtdIns(4,5)P2 in endocytic internalization, but how this lipid mediates its effects is not known. The AP180 N-terminal homology (ANTH) domain is a PtdIns(4,5)P2-binding module found in several proteins that participate in receptor-mediated endocytosis. One such protein is yeast Sla2p, a highly conserved actin-binding protein essential for actin organization and endocytic internalization. To better understand how PtdIns(4,5)P2 binding regulates actin-dependent endocytosis, we investigated the functions of Sla2p's ANTH domain. A liposome-binding assay revealed that Sla2p binds to PtdIns(4,5)P2 specifically through its ANTH domain and identified specific lysine residues required for this interaction. Mutants of Sla2p deficient in PtdIns(4,5)P2 binding showed significant defects in cell growth, actin organization, and endocytic internalization. These defects could be rescued by increasing PtdIns(4,5)P2 levels in vivo. Strikingly, mutant Sla2p defective in PtdIns(4,5)P2 binding localized with the endocytic machinery at the cell cortex, establishing that the ANTH-PtdIns(4,5)P2 interaction is not necessary for this association. In contrast, multicolor real-time fluorescence microscopy and particle-tracking analysis demonstrated that PtdIns(4,5)P2 binding is required during endocytic internalization. These results demonstrate that the interaction of Sla2p's ANTH domain with PtdIns(4,5)P2 plays a key role in regulation of the dynamics of actin-dependent endocytic internalization.
Hidden localization motifs: naturally occurring peroxisomal targeting signals in non-peroxisomal proteins.	Can sequence segments coding for subcellular targeting or for posttranslational modifications occur in proteins that are not substrates in either of these processes? Although considerable effort has been invested in achieving low false-positive prediction rates, even accurate sequence-analysis tools for the recognition of these motifs generate a small but noticeable number of protein hits that lack the appropriate biological context but cannot be rationalized as false positives.
Design, folding, and activities of metal-assembled coiled coil proteins.	Metal ions serve many purposes in natural proteins, from the stabilization of tertiary structure to the direction of protein folding to crucial roles in electron transfer and catalysis. There is considerable interest in creating metal binding sites in designed proteins to understand the structural role of metal ions and to design new metalloproteins with useful functions. The de novo design of metalloproteins and the role of metals in the folding of designed proteins are reviewed here, with particular focus on the design, folding, and activities of the [M(bpy-peptide)(3)](2+) structure. This maquette is constructed by the covalent attachment of 2,2'-bipyridine to the N-termini of amphiphilic peptides, and it is assembled into a folded trimeric coiled coil by the addition of a six-coordinate transition metal ion and the resulting hydrophobic collapse of the peptides. The [M(bpy-peptide)(3)](2+) structure has been employed in diverse applications, ranging from electron transfer pathway studies to the study of optimal hydrophobic packing in a virtual library to the construction of receptors and biosensors.
Expression, purification and preliminary crystallographic characterization of a novel segment from the neurofibromatosis type 1 protein.	Neurofibromin (MW 320 kDa) is the protein responsible for the pathogenesis of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), one of the most common genetic diseases worldwide. The neurofibromin GAP-related domain (GRD, MW 38 kDa) possess a Ras-specific GTPase-activating protein property, which is at present its only clear biochemical function. This article describes the study of the bacterial production and preliminary X-ray crystallographic analysis of a neurofibromin fragment located at the C-terminal end of the GRD, which contains a region reported to be homologous to the yeast Sec14p lipid exchange protein. Of the three crystal variants obtained, a tetragonal form diffracted to a resolution of at least 2.3 A.
Ice2p is important for the distribution and structure of the cortical ER network in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is found along the cell periphery (cortical ER) and nucleus (perinuclear ER). In this study, we characterize a novel ER protein called Ice2p that localizes to the cortical and perinuclear ER. Ice2p is predicted to be a type-III transmembrane protein. Cells carrying a genomic disruption of ICE2 display defects in the distribution of cortical ER in mother and daughter cells. Furthermore, fluorescence imaging of ice2delta cells reveals an abnormal cortical ER tubular network morphology in both the mother cell and the developing bud. Subcellular fractionation analysis using sucrose gradients corroborate the data from the fluorescence studies. Our findings indicate that Ice2p plays a role in forming and/or maintaining the cortical ER network in budding yeast.
Structural modeling of dual-affinity purified Pho84 phosphate transporter.	The phosphate transporter Pho84 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is predicted to contain 12 transmembrane (TM) regions, divided into two partially duplicated parts of 6 TM segments. The three-dimensional (3D) organization of the Pho84 protein has not yet been determined. However, the 3D crystal structure of the Escherichia coli MFS glycerol-3-phosphate/phosphate antiporter, GlpT, and lactose transporter, LacY, has recently been determined. On the basis of extensive prediction and fold recognition analyses (at the MetaServer), GlpT was proposed as the best structural template on which the arrangement of TM segments of the Pho84 transporter was fit, using the comparative structural modeling program MODELLER. To initiate an evaluation of the appropriateness of the Pho84 model, we have performed two direct tests by targeting spin labels to putative TM segments 8 and 12. Electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy was then applied on purified and spin labeled Pho84. The line shape from labels located at both positions is consistent with the structural environment predicted by the template-generated model, thus supporting the model.
A novel endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein Rcr1 regulates chitin deposition in the cell wall of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Congo red binds to the cell wall and inhibits the growth of yeast. In a screening for multicopy suppressor genes of Congo red hypersensitivity of erd1Delta mutant, we found that a previously uncharacterized gene, YBR005w, makes most of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains resistant to Congo red. This gene was named RCR1 (resistance to Congo red 1). An rcr1Delta null mutant showed an increased sensitivity to Congo red. RCR1 encodes a novel ER membrane protein with a single transmembrane domain. Molecular dissection suggested that the transmembrane domain and a part of the C-terminal polypeptide are sufficient for the activity. We examined the effect of RCR1 in various null mutants of genes related to the cell wall. The resistance of mutants to Congo red correlates with a reduction of chitin content. Multicopy RCR1 caused a significant decrease in the chitin content while the amount of alkali-soluble glucan did not change. The binding of Calcofluor white to the cell wall significantly decreased in these cells. Our results show that RCR1 regulates the chitin deposition and add firm genetic and biochemical evidences that the primary target of Congo red is chitin in S. cerevisiae.
Deletion of the three distal S1 motifs of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rrp5p abolishes pre-rRNA processing at site A(2) without reducing the production of functional 40S subunits.	Yeast Rrp5p, one of the few trans-acting proteins required for the biogenesis of both ribosomal subunits, has a remarkable two-domain structure. Its C-terminal region consists of seven tetratricopeptide motifs, several of which are crucial for cleavages at sites A(0) to A(2) and thus for the formation of 18S rRNA. The N-terminal region, on the other hand, contains 12 S1 RNA-binding motifs, most of which are required for processing at site A(3) and thus for the production of the short form of 5.8S rRNA. Yeast cells expressing a mutant Rrp5p protein that lacks S1 motifs 10 to 12 (mutant rrp5Delta6) have a normal growth rate and wild-type steady-state levels of the mature rRNA species, suggesting that these motifs are irrelevant for ribosome biogenesis. Here we show that, nevertheless, in the rrp5Delta6 mutant, pre-rRNA processing follows an alternative pathway that does not include the cleavage of 32S pre-rRNA at site A(2). Instead, the 32S precursor is processed directly at site A(3), producing exclusively 21S rather than 20S pre-rRNA. This is the first evidence that the 21S precursor, which was observed previously only in cells showing a substantial growth defect or as a minor species in addition to the normal 20S precursor, is an efficient substrate for 18S rRNA synthesis. Maturation of the 21S precursor occurs via the same endonucleolytic cleavage at site D as that used for 20S pre-rRNA maturation. The resulting D-A(3) fragment, however, is degraded by both 5'-->3' and 3'-->5' exonuclease digestions, the latter involving the exosome, in contrast to the exclusively 5'-->3' exonucleolytic digestion of the D-A(2) fragment. We also show that rrp5Delta6 cells are hypersensitive to both hygromycin B and cycloheximide, suggesting that, despite their wild-type growth rate, their preribosomes or ribosomes may be structurally abnormal.
The small-subunit processome is a ribosome assembly intermediate.	The small-subunit (SSU) processome is a large ribonucleoprotein required for the biogenesis of the 18S rRNA and likely corresponds to the terminal knobs visualized by electron microscopy on the 5' end of nascent rRNAs. The original purification of the SSU processome of Saccharomyces cerevisiae resulted in the identification of 28 proteins. Here, we characterize 12 additional protein components, including five small-ribosomal-subunit proteins (Rps4, Rps6, Rps7, Rps9, and Rps14) that had previously been copurified. Our multiple criteria for including a component as a bona fide SSU processome component included coimmunoprecipitation with Mpp10 (an SSU processome component), the U3 snoRNA, and the anticipated pre-rRNAs. Importantly, the association of specific ribosomal proteins with the SSU processome suggests that the SSU processome has roles in both pre-rRNA processing and ribosome assembly. These ribosomal proteins may be analogous to the primary or secondary RNA binding proteins first described in bacterial in vitro ribosome assembly maps. In addition to the ribosomal proteins and based on the same experimental approach, we found seven other proteins (Utp18, Noc4, Utp20, Utp21, Utp22, Emg1, and Krr1) to be bona fide SSU processome proteins.
Structures of complete RNA polymerase II and its subcomplex, Rpb4/7.	We determined the x-ray structure of the RNA polymerase (Pol) II subcomplex Rpb4/7 at 2.3 A resolution, combined it with a previous structure of the 10-subunit polymerase core, and refined an atomic model of the complete 12-subunit Pol II at 3.8-A resolution. Comparison of the complete Pol II structure with structures of the Pol II core and free Rpb4/7 shows that the core-Rpb4/7 interaction goes along with formation of an alpha-helix in the linker region of the largest Pol II subunit and with folding of the conserved Rpb7 tip loop. Details of the core-Rpb4/7 interface explain facilitated Rpb4/7 dissociation in a temperature-sensitive Pol II mutant and specific assembly of Pol I with its Rpb4/7 counterpart, A43/14. The refined atomic model of Pol II serves as the new reference structure for analysis of the transcription mechanism and enables structure solution of complexes of the complete enzyme with additional factors and nucleic acids by molecular replacement.
Crystal structure of the YML079w protein from Saccharomyces cerevisiae reveals a new sequence family of the jelly-roll fold.	We determined the three-dimensional crystal structure of the protein YML079wp, encoded by a hypothetical open reading frame from Saccharomyces cerevisiae to a resolution of 1.75 A. The protein has no close homologs and its molecular and cellular functions are unknown. The structure of the protein is a jelly-roll fold consisting of ten beta-strands organized in two parallel packed beta-sheets. The protein has strong structural resemblance to the plant storage and ligand binding proteins (canavalin, glycinin, auxin binding protein) but also to some plant and bacterial enzymes (epimerase, germin). The protein forms homodimers in the crystal, confirming measurements of its molecular mass in solution. Two monomers have their beta-sheet packed together to form the dimer. The presence of a hydrophobic ligand in a well conserved pocket inside the barrel and local sequence similarity with bacterial epimerases may suggest a biochemical function for this protein.
CYGD: the Comprehensive Yeast Genome Database.	The Comprehensive Yeast Genome Database (CYGD) compiles a comprehensive data resource for information on the cellular functions of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and related species, chosen as the best understood model organism for eukaryotes. The database serves as a common resource generated by a European consortium, going beyond the provision of sequence information and functional annotations on individual genes and proteins. In addition, it provides information on the physical and functional interactions among proteins as well as other genetic elements. These cellular networks include metabolic and regulatory pathways, signal transduction and transport processes as well as co-regulated gene clusters. As more yeast genomes are published, their annotation becomes greatly facilitated using S.cerevisiae as a reference. CYGD provides a way of exploring related genomes with the aid of the S.cerevisiae genome as a backbone and SIMAP, the Similarity Matrix of Proteins. The comprehensive resource is available under http://mips.gsf.de/genre/proj/yeast/.
Fungal BLAST and Model Organism BLASTP Best Hits: new comparison resources at the Saccharomyces Genome Database (SGD).	The Saccharomyces Genome Database (SGD; http://www.yeastgenome.org/) is a scientific database of gene, protein and genomic information for the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. SGD has recently developed two new resources that facilitate nucleotide and protein sequence comparisons between S.cerevisiae and other organisms. The Fungal BLAST tool provides directed searches against all fungal nucleotide and protein sequences available from GenBank, divided into categories according to organism, status of completeness and annotation, and source. The Model Organism BLASTP Best Hits resource displays, for each S.cerevisiae protein, the single most similar protein from several model organisms and presents links to the database pages of those proteins, facilitating access to curated information about potential orthologs of yeast proteins.
Mim1, a protein required for the assembly of the TOM complex of mitochondria.	The translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane (TOM complex) is the general entry site for newly synthesized proteins into mitochondria. This complex is essential for the formation and maintenance of mitochondria. Here, we report on the role of the integral outer membrane protein, Mim1 (mitochondrial import), in the biogenesis of mitochondria. Depletion of Mim1 abrogates assembly of the TOM complex and results in accumulation of Tom40, the principal constituent of the TOM complex, as a low-molecular-mass species. Like all mitochondrial beta-barrel proteins, the precursor of Tom40 is inserted into the outer membrane by the TOB complex. Mim1 is likely to be required for a step after this TOB-complex-mediated insertion. Mim1 is a constituent of neither the TOM complex nor the TOB complex; rather, it seems to be a subunit of another, as yet unidentified, complex. We conclude that Mim1 has a vital and specific function in the assembly of the TOM complex.
Purification, functional reconstitution, and characterization of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae isoprenylcysteine carboxylmethyltransferase Ste14p.	Numerous proteins, including Ras, contain a C-terminal CAAX motif that directs a series of three sequential post-translational modifications: isoprenylation of the cysteine residue, endoproteolysis of the three terminal amino acids and alpha-carboxyl methylesterification of the isoprenylated cysteine. This study focuses on the isoprenylcysteine carboxylmethyltransferase (Icmt) enzyme from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Ste14p, the founding member of a homologous family of endoplasmic reticulum membrane proteins present in all eukaryotes. Ste14p, like all Icmts, has multiple membrane spanning domains, presenting a significant challenge to its purification in an active form. Here, we have detergent-solubilized, purified, and reconstituted enzymatically active His-tagged Ste14p from S. cerevisiae, thus providing conclusive proof that Ste14p is the sole component necessary for the carboxylmethylation of isoprenylated substrates. Among the extensive panel of detergents that was screened, optimal solubilization and retention of Ste14p activity occurred with n-dodecyl-beta-d-maltoside. The activity of Ste14p could be further optimized upon reconstitution into liposomes. Our expression and purification schemes generate milligram quantities of pure and active Ste14p, which is highly stable under many conditions. Using pure reconstituted Ste14p, we demonstrate quantitatively that Ste14p does not have a preference for the farnesyl or geranylgeranyl moieties in the model substrates N-acetyl-S-farnesyl-l-cysteine (AFC) and N-acetyl-S-geranylgeranyl-l-cysteine (AGGC) in vitro. In addition to catalyzing methylation of AFC, we also show that purified Ste14p methylates a known in vivo substrate, Ras2p. Evidence that metals ions are required for activity of Ste14p is also presented. These results pave the way for further characterization of pure Ste14p, as well as determination of its three-dimensional structure.
Structure-function analysis of the yeast NAD+-dependent tRNA 2'-phosphotransferase Tpt1.	Tpt1 is an essential 230-amino-acid enzyme that catalyzes the final step in yeast tRNA splicing: the transfer of the 2'-PO4 from the splice junction to NAD+ to form ADP-ribose 1''-2''cyclic phosphate and nicotinamide. To understand the structural requirements for Saccharomyces cerevisiae Tpt1 activity, we performed an alanine-scanning mutational analysis of 14 amino acids that are conserved in homologous proteins from fungi, metazoa, protozoa, bacteria, and archaea. We thereby identified four residues-Arg23, His24, Arg71, and Arg138-as essential for Tpt1 function in vivo. Structure-activity relationships at these positions were clarified by introducing conservative substitutions. The activity of the Escherichia coli ortholog KptA in complementing tpt1Delta was abolished by alanine substitutions at the equivalent side chains, Arg21, His22, Arg69, and Arg125. Deletion analysis of Tpt1 shows that the C-terminal 20 amino acids, which are not conserved, are not essential for activity in vivo at 30 degrees C. These findings attest to the structural and functional conservation of Tpt1-like 2'-phosphotransferases and identify likely constituents of the active site.
Two-faced cyclins with eyes on the targets.	We recently reported that the 'hydrophobic patch' (HP) of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae S-phase cyclin Clb5 facilitates its interaction with Orc6 (via its Cy or RXL motif), providing a mechanism that helps prevent rereplication from individual origins. This is the first finding of a biological function for an interaction between a cyclin and a cyclin-binding motif (Cy or RXL motif) in a target protein in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. It is also the first such example involving a B-type cyclin in any organism. Yet, some of our observations as well as work from other groups suggest that HP-RXL interactions are functionally important for cyclin-Cdk signaling to other targets. The evolutionary conservation of the HP motif suggests that it allows cyclins to carry out important and specialized functions.
3D models of yeast RNase P/MRP proteins Rpp1p and Pop3p.	Sensitive profile searches and fold recognition were used to predict the structures of two yeast RNase P/MRP proteins. Rpp1p, which is one of the subunits common to eukaryotes and archaea, is predicted to adopt the seven-stranded TIM-barrel fold found in PHP phosphoesterases. Pop3p, initially thought to be one of the RNase P/MRP subunits unique to yeast, has been assigned the L7Ae/L30e fold. This RNA-binding fold is also present in human RNase P subunit Rpp38, raising the possibility that Pop3p and Rpp38 are functional homologs.
Conserved N-terminal negative charges in the Tim17 subunit of the TIM23 translocase play a critical role in the import of preproteins into mitochondria.	The TIM23 complex of the mitochondrial inner membrane mediates the import of preproteins that contain positively charged targeting signals. This translocase consists of the two phylogenetically related membrane-embedded subunits Tim17 and Tim23 to which four largely hydrophilic subunits, Tim50, Tim44, Tim16, and Tim14, are attached. Whereas in vitro reconstitution experiments have suggested a pore-forming capacity of recombinant Tim23, virtually nothing is known about the properties and function of Tim17. We employed a combined genetic and biochemical approach to address the function of Tim17 in preprotein translocation. Tim17 exposes an N-terminal hydrophilic stretch into the intermembrane space. Truncation of the first 11 amino acid residues of this stretch did not affect the stability or integrity of TIM23 subunits but strongly impaired the import of preproteins. Moreover, expression of the truncated Tim17 variant led to a dominant negative effect on the mitochondrial membrane potential. By an alanine-scanning approach we identified two conserved negative charges in the N terminus of Tim17 as critical for Tim17 function. The replacement of these positions by positively charged residues results in a strong growth defect, which can be cured by reverting two conserved positive charges into aspartate residues between transmembrane domains two and three of Tim17. On the basis of these observations we propose that charged residues in Tim17 are critical for the preprotein-induced gating of the TIM23 translocase.
Specialized membrane-localized chaperones prevent aggregation of polytopic proteins in the ER.	The integral endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane protein Shr3p is required for proper plasma membrane localization of amino acid permeases (AAPs) in yeast. In the absence of Shr3p AAPs are uniquely retained in the ER with each of their twelve membrane-spanning segments correctly inserted in the membrane. Here, we show that the membrane domain of Shr3p specifically prevents AAPs from aggregating, and thus, plays a critical role in assisting AAPs to fold and correctly attain tertiary structures required for ER exit. Also, we show that the integral ER proteins, Gsf2p, Pho86p, and Chs7p, function similarly to Shr3p. In cells individually lacking one of these components only their cognate substrates, hexose transporters, phosphate transporters, and chitin synthase-III, respectively, aggregate and consequently fail to exit the ER membrane. These findings indicate that polytopic membrane proteins depend on specialized membrane-localized chaperones to prevent inappropriate interactions between membrane-spanning segments as they insert and fold in the lipid bilayer of the ER membrane.
Peeling the yeast protein network.	A set of highly connected proteins (or hubs) plays an important role for the integrity of the protein interaction network of Saccharomyces cerevisae by connecting the network's intrinsic modules. The importance of the hubs' central placement is further confirmed by their propensity to be lethal. However, although highly emphasized, little is known about the topological coherence among the hubs. Applying a core decomposition method which allows us to identify the inherent layer structure of the protein interaction network, we find that the probability of nodes both being essential and evolutionary conserved successively increases toward the innermost cores. While connectivity alone is often not a sufficient criterion to assess a protein's functional, evolutionary and topological relevance, we classify nodes as globally and locally central depending on their appearance in the inner or outer cores. The observation that globally central proteins participate in a substantial number of protein complexes which display an elevated degree of evolutionary conservation allows us to hypothesize that globally central proteins serve as the evolutionary backbone of the proteome. Even though protein interaction data are extensively flawed, we find that our results are very robust against inaccurately determined protein interactions.
Cysteine labeling studies detect conformational changes in region 106-132 of the mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	To know the structural and functional features of the cytosolic-facing first loop (LC1) including its surrounding region of the mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier (AAC), we prepared 27 mutants, in which each amino acid residue between residues 106 and 132 of the yeast type 2 AAC (yAAC2) was replaced by a cysteine residue. For mutant preparation, we used a Cys-less AAC mutant, in which all four intrinsic cysteine residues were substituted with alanine residues, as a template [Hatanaka, T., Kihira, Y., Shinohara, Y., Majima, E., and Terada, H. (2001) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 286, 936-942]. From the labeling intensities of the membrane-impermeable SH-reagent eosin-5-maleimide (EMA), sequence Lys(108)-Phe(127) was suggested to constitute the LC1. The N-terminal half of this region (Lys(108)-Phe(115)) was suggested to change its location from the cytosol to a region close to the membrane on conversion from the c-state to the m-state in association with disruption or unwinding of its alpha-helical structure, whereas the C-terminal half region (Gly(116)-Phe(127)) was considered to extrude essentially into the cytosol, while keeping its alpha-helical structure. Hence, the conformation of m-state LC1 is greatly different from that of c-state LC1. Possibly the LC1 changes its location between the membranous region and the cytosol during ADP/ATP transport. Lys(108) in the LC1 of the yAAC2 was found to be associated with binding of the transport substrates, and its -NH(3)(+) moiety, to be of importance for the transport function. On the basis of these results, possible roles of the conformational changes of the LC1 in the transport activity are discussed.
Is the prion domain of soluble Ure2p unstructured?	The [URE3] prion is a self-propagating amyloid form of the Ure2 protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Deletions in the C-terminal nitrogen regulation domain of Ure2p increase the frequency with which the N-terminal prion domain polymerizes into the prion form, suggesting that the C-terminus stabilizes the prion domain or that the structured C-terminal region sterically impairs amyloid formation. We find by in vivo two-hybrid analysis no evidence of interaction of prion domain and C-terminal domain. Furthermore, surface plasmon resonance spectrometry shows no evidence of interaction of prion domain and C-terminal domain, and cleavage at a specific site between the domains frees the two fragments. Our NMR analysis indicates that most residues of the prion domain are in fact disordered in the soluble form of Ure2p. Deleting the tether holding the C-terminal structured region to the amyloid core does not impair prion formation, arguing against steric impairment of amyloid formation. These results suggest that the N-terminal prion domain is unstructured in the soluble protein and does not have a specific interaction with the C-terminus.
Identification of an evolutionary conserved SURF-6 domain in a family of nucleolar proteins extending from human to yeast.	The mammalian SURF-6 protein is localized in the nucleolus, yet its function remains elusive in the recently characterized nucleolar proteome. We discovered by searching the Protein families database that a unique evolutionary conserved SURF-6 domain is present in the carboxy-terminal of a novel family of eukaryotic proteins extending from human to yeast. By using the enhanced green fluorescent protein as a fusion protein marker in mammalian cells, we show that proteins from distantly related taxonomic groups containing the SURF-6 domain are localized in the nucleolus. Deletion sequence analysis shows that multiple regions of the SURF-6 protein are capable of nucleolar targeting independently of the evolutionary conserved domain. We identified that the Saccharomyces cerevisiae member of the SURF-6 family, named rrp14 or ykl082c, has been categorized in yeast databases to interact with proteins involved in ribosomal biogenesis and cell polarity. These results classify SURF-6 as a new family of nucleolar proteins in the eukaryotic kingdom and point out that SURF-6 has a distinct domain within the known nucleolar proteome that may mediate complex protein-protein interactions for analogous processes between yeast and mammalian cells.
EPR and optical spectroscopic studies of Met80X mutants of yeast ferricytochrome c. Models for intermediates in the alkaline transition.	The ferric forms of Met80X mutants of yeast iso-1-cytochrome c (X = Ala, Ser, Asp, and Glu) display EPR and optical spectra that are strongly pH dependent. At low pH values (pH approximately 5) the sixth coordination sites are filled by H(2)O that, on elevating the pH, is replaced by OH(-) in the cases of Met80Ala and -Ser (pK approximately 5.6 and 5.9, respectively) and by a lysine amino group in the cases of Met80Asp and -Glu (pK approximately 9.3 and 11.6, respectively). The ligand sets and the pK values of the transitions are rationalized in terms of the structure of the heme pocket, and a possible mechanism of the "trigger" in the alkaline transition of the native protein is suggested.
Identification of cytoplasmic residues of Sec61p involved in ribosome binding and cotranslational translocation.	The cytoplasmic surface of Sec61p is the binding site for the ribosome and has been proposed to interact with the signal recognition particle receptor during targeting of the ribosome nascent chain complex to the translocation channel. Point mutations in cytoplasmic loops six (L6) and eight (L8) of yeast Sec61p cause reductions in growth rates and defects in the translocation of nascent polypeptides that use the cotranslational translocation pathway. Sec61 heterotrimers isolated from the L8 sec61 mutants have a greatly reduced affinity for 80S ribosomes. Cytoplasmic accumulation of protein precursors demonstrates that the initial contact between the large ribosomal subunit and the Sec61 complex is important for efficient insertion of a nascent polypeptide into the translocation pore. In contrast, point mutations in L6 of Sec61p inhibit cotranslational translocation without significantly reducing the ribosome-binding activity, indicating that the L6 and L8 sec61 mutants affect different steps in the cotranslational translocation pathway.
Structural and functional analysis of the interaction of the AAA-peroxins Pex1p and Pex6p.	The AAA-peroxins Pex1p and Pex6p play a critical role in peroxisome biogenesis but their precise function remains to be established. These two peroxins consist of three distinct regions (N, D1, D2), two of which (D1, D2) contain a conserved approximately 230 amino acid cassette, which is common to all ATPases associated with various cellular activities (AAA). Here we show that Pex1p and Pex6p from Saccharomyces cerevisiae do interact in vivo. We assigned their corresponding binding sites and elucidated the importance of ATP-binding and -hydrolysis of Pex1p and Pex6p for their interaction. We show that the interaction of Pex1p and Pex6p involves their first AAA-cassettes and demonstrate that ATP-binding but not ATP-hydrolysis in the second AAA-cassette (D2) of Pex1p is required for the Pex1p-Pex6p interaction. Furthermore, we could prove that the second AAA-cassettes (D2) of both Pex1p and Pex6p were essential for peroxisomal biogenesis and thus probably comprise the overall activity of the proteins.
Lipid-mediated, reversible misfolding of a sterol-sensing domain protein.	Cellular quality control requires recognition of common features of misfolding, and so is not typically associated with the specific targeting of individual proteins. However, physiologically regulated degradation of yeast HMG-CoA reductase (Hmg2p) occurs by the HRD endoplasmic reticulum quality control pathway, implying that Hmg2p undergoes a regulated transition to a quality control substrate in response to a sterol pathway molecule. Using in vitro structural assays, we now show that the pathway derivative farnesol causes Hmg2p to undergo a change to a less folded structure. The effect is reversible, biologically relevant by numerous criteria, highly specific for farnesol structure, and requires an intact Hmg2p sterol-sensing domain. This represents a distinct lipid-sensing function for this highly conserved motif that suggests novel approaches to cholesterol management. More generally, our observation of reversible small-molecule-mediated misfolding may herald numerous examples of regulated quality control to be discovered in biology or applied in the clinic.
Structure and function of the GTP binding protein Gtr1 and its role in phosphate transport in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The Pho84 high-affinity phosphate permease is the primary phosphate transporter in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae under phosphate-limiting conditions. The soluble G protein, Gtr1, has previously been suggested to be involved in the derepressible Pho84 phosphate uptake function. This idea was based on a displayed deletion phenotype of Deltagtr1 similar to the Deltapho84 phenotype. As of yet, the mode of interaction has not been described. The consequences of a deletion of gtr1 on in vivo Pho84 expression, trafficking and activity, and extracellular phosphatase activity were analyzed in strains synthesizing either Pho84-green fluorescent protein or Pho84-myc chimeras. The studies revealed a delayed response in Pho84-mediated phosphate uptake and extracellular phosphatase activity under phosphate-limiting conditions. EPR spectroscopic studies verified that the N-terminal G binding domain (residues 1-185) harbors the nucleotide responsive elements. In contrast, the spectra obtained for the C-terminal part (residues 186-310) displayed no evidence of conformational changes upon GTP addition.
The offloading model for dynein function: differential function of motor subunits.	During mitosis in budding yeast, dynein moves the mitotic spindle into the mother-bud neck. We have proposed an offloading model to explain how dynein works. Dynein is targeted to the dynamic plus end of a cytoplasmic microtubule, offloads to the cortex, becomes anchored and activated, and then pulls on the microtubule. Here, we perform functional studies of dynein intermediate chain (IC) and light intermediate chain (LIC). IC/Pac11 and LIC/Dyn3 are both essential for dynein function, similar to the heavy chain (HC/Dyn1). IC and LIC are targeted to the distal plus ends of dynamic cytoplasmic microtubules, as is HC, and their targeting depends on HC. Targeting of HC to the plus end depends on IC, but not LIC. IC also localizes as stationary dots at the cell cortex, the presumed result of offloading in our model, as does HC, but not LIC. Localization of HC to cortical dots depends on both IC and LIC. Thus, the IC and LIC accessory chains have different but essential roles in dynein function, providing new insight into the offloading model.
Novel interaction between Apc5p and Rsp5p in an intracellular signaling pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The ubiquitin-targeting pathway is evolutionarily conserved and critical for many cellular functions. Recently, we discovered a role for two ubiquitin-protein ligases (E3s), Rsp5p and the Apc5p subunit of the anaphase-promoting complex (APC), in mitotic chromatin assembly in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In the present study, we investigated whether Rsp5p and Apc5p interact in an intracellular pathway regulating chromatin remodeling. Our genetic studies strongly suggest that Rsp5p and Apc5p do interact and that Rsp5p acts upstream of Apc5p. Since E3 enzymes typically require the action of a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2), we screened E2 mutants for chromatin assembly defects, which resulted in the identification of Cdc34p and Ubc7p. Cdc34p is the E2 component of the SCF (Skp1p/Cdc53p/F-box protein). Therefore, we analyzed additional SCF mutants for chromatin assembly defects. Defective chromatin assembly extracts generated from strains harboring a mutation in the Cdc53p SCF subunit or a nondegradable SCF target, Sic1(Deltaphos), confirmed that the SCF was involved in mitotic chromatin assembly. Furthermore, we demonstrated that Ubc7p physically and genetically interacts with Rsp5p, suggesting that Ubc7p acts as an E2 for Rsp5p. However, rsp5CA and Deltaubc7 mutations had opposite genetic effects on apc5CA and cdc34-2 phenotypes. Therefore, the antagonistic interplay between Deltaubc7 and rsp5CA, with respect to cdc34-2 and apc5CA, indicates that the outcome of Rsp5p's interaction with Cdc34p and Apc5p may depend on the E2 interacting with Rsp5p.
Functional roles of carboxylate residues comprising the DNA polymerase active site triad of Ty3 reverse transcriptase.	Aspartic acid residues comprising the -D-(aa) n -Y-L-D-D- DNA polymerase active site triad of reverse transcriptase from the Saccharomyces cerevisiae long terminal repeat-retrotransposon Ty3 (Asp151, Asp213 and Asp214) were evaluated via site-directed mutagenesis. An Asp151-->Glu substitution showed a dramatic decrease in catalytic efficiency and a severe translocation defect following initiation of DNA synthesis. In contrast, enzymes harboring the equivalent alteration at Asp213 and Asp214 retained DNA polymerase activity. Asp151-->Asn and Asp213-->Asn substitutions eliminated both polymerase activities. However, while Asp214 of the triad could be replaced by either Asn or Glu, introducing Gln seriously affected processivity. Mutants of the carboxylate triad at positions 151 and 213 also failed to catalyze pyrophosphorolysis. Finally, alterations to the DNA polymerase active site affected RNase H activity, suggesting a close spatial relationship between these N- and C-terminal catalytic centers. Taken together, our data reveal a critical role for Asp151 and Asp213 in catalysis. In contrast, the second carboxylate of the Y-L-D-D motif (Asp214) is not essential for catalysis, and possibly fulfills a structural role. Although Asp214 was most insensitive to substitution with respect to activity of the recombinant enzyme, all alterations at this position were lethal for Ty3 transposition.
SAGA unveiled.	Transcriptional regulation in eukaryotes is intimately coupled to chromatin dynamics. The SAGA (Spt-Ada-Gcn5) histone acetyltransferase (HAT) complex of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a multi-subunit co-factor for RNA polymerase II transcription. However, not all gene activation events require its intrinsic HAT activity. In addition, SAGA subunits can also restrict gene transcription. The recently published structural model from the laboratories of Fred Winston and Patrick Schultz of the SAGA complex provides a framework to rationalize these findings and to direct further investigation of this crucial transcriptional co-factor.
Conditional UAS-targeted repression in Drosophila.	The Gal4-UAS enhancer trap system is useful for driving gene expression in various tissues. A new tool that extends Gal4 technology is described here. A fusion protein containing the Gal4 binding domain and the repression domain of the isolator suppressor of hairy wing was placed under the control of a heat shock-inducible promoter. The construct mediates the conditional repression of genes located downstream of a UAS sequence. The repressive effects of the chimeric protein on fasII gene expression were tested by western-blot analysis and in brain sections of adult Drosophila. Owing to the increasing number of Gal4 and UAS transgenic lines, this versatile system will facilitate the study of gene function.
Kinetochore-spindle microtubule interactions during mitosis.	The kinetochore is a proteinaceous structure that assembles onto centromeric DNA and mediates chromosome attachment to microtubules during mitosis. This description is deceivingly simple: recent proteomic studies suggest that the diminutive kinetochores of Saccharomyces cerevisiae are comprised of at least 60 proteins organized into as many as 14 different subcomplexes. Many of these proteins, such as the centromeric histone variant CENP-A, and entire subcomplexes, such as the Ndc80(Hec1) complex, are conserved from yeast to humans despite the diverse nature of the DNA sequences on which they assemble. There have recently been advances in our understanding of the molecular basis of how kinetochores establish dynamic attachments to spindle microtubules, and how these attachments are correctly oriented to ensure segregation of sister chromatids to daughter cells.
An integrative approach to gain insights into the cellular function of human ataxin-2.	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2) is a hereditary neurodegenerative disorder caused by a trinucleotide expansion in the SCA2 gene, encoding a polyglutamine stretch in the gene product ataxin-2 (ATX2), whose cellular function is unknown. However, ATX2 interacts with A2BP1, a protein containing an RNA-recognition motif, and the existence of an interaction motif for the C-terminal domain of the poly(A)-binding protein (PABC) as well as an Lsm (Like Sm) domain in ATX2 suggest that ATX2 like its yeast homolog Pbp1 might be involved in RNA metabolism. Here, we show that, similar to Pbp1, ATX2 suppresses the petite (pet-) phenotype of Deltamrs2 yeast strains lacking mitochondrial group II introns. This finding points to a close functional relationship between the two homologs. To gain insight into potential functions of ATX2, we also generated a comprehensive protein interaction network for Pbp1 from publicly available databases, which implicates Pbp1 in diverse RNA-processing pathways. The functional relationship of ATX2 and Pbp1 is further corroborated by the experimental confirmation of the predicted interaction of ATX2 with the cytoplasmic poly(A)-binding protein 1 (PABP) using yeast-2-hybrid analysis as well as co-immunoprecipitation experiments. Immunofluorescence studies revealed that ATX2 and PABP co-localize in mammalian cells, remarkably, even under conditions in which PABP accumulates in distinct cytoplasmic foci representing sites of mRNA triage.
A conformational change in the eukaryotic translation preinitiation complex and release of eIF1 signal recognition of the start codon.	During eukaryotic translation initiation, ribosomal 43S complexes scan mRNAs for the correct AUG codon at which to begin translation. Start codon recognition triggers GTP hydrolysis, committing the complex to engagement at that point on the mRNA. While fidelity at this step is essential, the nature of the codon recognition event and the mechanism by which it activates GTP hydrolysis are poorly understood. Here we report the changes that occur within the 43S.mRNA complex in response to AUG codon recognition. eIF1 and eIF1A are key players in assembly of 43S.mRNA complexes capable of locating initiation codons. We observed FRET between these two factors when bound to the 40S subunit. Using steady-state FRET, anisotropy, and kinetic analyses, we demonstrate that start codon recognition results in a conformational change and release of eIF1 from the ribosome. These rearrangements probably play a role in triggering GTP hydrolysis and committing the complex to downstream events.
Characterization of subunits of the RNA polymerase I complex in Trypanosoma brucei.	The Trypanosoma brucei homologue of the RNA polymerase I (RNA Pol I) subunit Rpa12p of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was cloned and characterized. This protein did not appear to be essential for growth in either bloodstream or procyclic forms of the parasite. Trypanosomes expressing a C-terminal tagged version of TbRPA12 were generated in order to purify RNA Pol I from both developmental stages. Tandem affinity purification (TAP) revealed a number of proteins associating with TbRPA12, some of which appeared to be stage-specific. Mass spectrometry allowed the identification of four subunits in addition to TbRPA12, namely TbRPA1, TbRPA2, TbRPC40 and one isoform of TbRPB5 (Tb1RPB5), as well as an unknown 30kDa protein and histones H2A and H3. Whereas these studies demonstrated that TbRPA1 was phosphorylated, no evidence for phosphorylation of TbRPA2 was found.
Pradimicin resistance of yeast is caused by a mutation of the putative N-glycosylation sites of osmosensor protein Sln1.	Pradimicin, a mannose-binding antifungal antibiotic, induces apoptosis-like cell death in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Previously we found that the substitution of the 74th amino acid from glycine to cysteine in Ypd1 yields a mutant resistant to pradimicin. In this study, the involvement of a membrane-spanning osomosensor, Sln1, which is located upstream of Ypd1, was investigated. A mutant, sln1 DeltaNG, that lacks the putative N-glycosylation sites in the extracellular domain became resistant to pradimicin. On the other hand, the null mutants of Ssk1, Pbs2, and Hog1, which are located downstream of the Sln1 cascade, were sensitive to pradimicin as well as the wild-type strain. In conclusion, pradimicin exerts its fungicidal action with the involvement of Sln1, but the downstream branch, Ssk1 and the HOG pathway, is not involved.
Identification of residues that contribute to receptor activation through the analysis of compensatory mutations in the G protein-coupled alpha-factor receptor.	The alpha-factor receptor (Ste2p) stimulates mating of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Ste2p belongs to the large family of G protein-coupled receptors that are characterized by seven transmembrane alpha-helices. Receptor activation is thought to involve changes in the packing of the transmembrane helix bundle. To identify residues that contribute to Ste2p activation, second-site suppressor mutations were isolated that restored function to defective receptors carrying either an F204S or Y266C substitution which affect residues at the extracellular ends of transmembrane domains 5 and 6, respectively. Thirty-five different suppressor mutations were identified. On their own, these mutations caused a range of phenotypes, including hypersensitivity, constitutive activity, altered ligand binding, and loss of function. The majority of the mutations affected residues in the transmembrane segments that are predicted to face the helix bundle. Many of the suppressor mutations caused constitutive receptor activity, suggesting they improved receptor function by partially restoring the balance between the active and inactive states. Analysis of mutations in transmembrane domain 7 implicated residues Ala281 and Thr282 in receptor activation. The A281T and T282A mutants were supersensitive to S. cerevisiae alpha-factor, but were defective in responding to a variant of alpha-factor produced by another species, Saccharomyces kluyveri. The A281T mutant also displayed 8.7-fold enhanced basal signaling. Interestingly, Ala281 and Thr282 are situated in approximately the same position as Lys296 in rhodopsin, which is covalently linked to retinal. These results suggest that transmembrane domain 7 plays a role in receptor activation in a wide range of G protein-coupled receptors from yeast to humans.
Role of Arc1p in the modulation of yeast glutamyl-tRNA synthetase activity.	Yeast methionyl-tRNA synthetase (MetRS) and glutamyl-tRNA synthetase (GluRS) possess N-terminal extensions that bind the cofactor Arc1p in trans. The strength of GluRS-Arc1p interaction is high enough to allow copurification of the two macromolecules in a 1:1 ratio, in contrast to MetRS. Deletion analysis from the C-terminal end of the GluRS appendix combined with previous N-terminal deletions of GluRS allows restriction of the Arc1p binding site to the 110-170 amino acid region of GluRS. This region has been shown to correspond to a novel protein-protein interaction domain present in both GluRS and Arc1p but not in MetRS [Galani, K., Grosshans, H., Deinert, K., Hurt, E. C., and Simos, G. (2001) EMBO J. 20, 6889-6898]. The GluRS apoenzyme fails to show significant kinetics of tRNA aminoacylation and charges unfractionated yeast tRNA at a level 10-fold reduced compared to Arc1p-bound GluRS. The K(m) values for tRNA(Glu) measured in the ATP-PP(i) exchange were similar for the two forms of GluRS, whereas k(cat) is increased 2-fold in the presence of Arc1p. Band-shift analysis revealed a 100-fold increase in tRNA binding affinity when Arc1p is bound to GluRS. This increase requires the RNA binding properties of the full-length Arc1p since Arc1p N domain leaves the K(d) of GluRS for tRNA unchanged. Transcripts of yeast tRNA(Glu) were poor substrates for measuring tRNA aminoacylation and could not be used to clarify whether Arc1p has a specific effect on the tRNA charging reaction.
Transcriptional activating regions target attached substrates to a cyclin-dependent kinase.	The yeast cyclin-dependent kinase Srb10 phosphorylates various transcriptional activators as they activate transcription, and acidic transcriptional activating domains found on several activators directly bind Srb10. Here we show that the interaction between Srb10 (with its associated cyclin Srb11) and each of several different activating regions, in vitro, leads to the phosphorylation of peptide sequences attached to but outside of the activating regions themselves. In some cases, residues within the activating regions are also phosphorylated. The results define a mechanism by which a kinase is recruited to alternate substrates with diverse physiological consequences.
Lip1p: a novel subunit of acyl-CoA ceramide synthase.	Ceramide plays a crucial role as a basic building block of sphingolipids, but also as a signalling molecule mediating the fate of the cell. Although Lac1p and Lag1p have been shown recently to be involved in acyl-CoA-dependent ceramide synthesis, ceramide synthase is still poorly characterized. In this study, we expressed tagged versions of Lac1p and Lag1p and purified them to near homogeneity. They copurified with ceramide synthase activity, giving unequivocal evidence that they are subunits of the enzyme. In purified form, the acyl-CoA dependence, fatty acyl-CoA chain length specificity, and Fumonisin B1/Australifungin sensitivity of the ceramide synthase were the same as in cells, showing that these are properties of the enzyme and do not depend upon the membrane environment or other factors. SDS-PAGE analysis of purified ceramide synthase revealed the presence of a novel subunit of the enzyme, Lip1p. Lip1p is a single-span ER membrane protein that is required for ceramide synthesis in vivo and in vitro. The Lip1p regions required for ceramide synthesis are localized within the ER membrane or lumen.
Characterization of the ATPase and unwinding activities of the yeast DEAD-box protein Has1p and the analysis of the roles of the conserved motifs.	The yeast DEAD-box protein Has1p is required for the maturation of 18S rRNA, the biogenesis of 40S r-subunits and for the processing of 27S pre-rRNAs during 60S r-subunit biogenesis. We purified recombinant Has1p and characterized its biochemical activities. We show that Has1p is an RNA-dependent ATPase in vitro and that it is able to unwind RNA/DNA duplexes in an ATP-dependent manner. We also report a mutational analysis of the conserved residues in motif I (86AKTGSGKT93), motif III (228SAT230) and motif VI (375HRVGRTARG383). The in vivo lethal K92A substitution in motif I abolishes ATPase activity in vitro. The mutations S228A and T230A partially dissociate ATPase and helicase activities, and they have cold-sensitive and lethal growth phenotypes, respectively. The H375E substitution in motif VI significantly decreased helicase but not ATPase activity and was lethal in vivo. These results suggest that both ATPase and unwinding activities are required in vivo. Has1p possesses a Walker A-like motif downstream of motif VI (383GTKGKGKS390). K389A substitution in this motif significantly increases the Has1p activity in vitro, which indicates it potentially plays a role as a negative regulator. Finally, rRNAs and poly(A) RNA serve as the best stimulators of the ATPase activity of Has1p among the tested RNAs.
Regulation of yeast glycogen phosphorylase by the cyclin-dependent protein kinase Pho85p.	Yeast accumulate glycogen in response to nutrient limitation. The key enzymes of glycogen synthesis and degradation, glycogen synthase, and phosphorylase, are regulated by reversible phosphorylation. Phosphorylation inactivates glycogen synthase but activates phosphorylase. The kinases and phosphatases that control glycogen synthase are well characterized whilst the enzymes modifying phosphorylase are poorly defined. Here, we show that the cyclin-dependent protein kinase, Pho85p, which we have previously found to regulate glycogen synthase also controls the phosphorylation state of phosphorylase.
Structure and mechanism of ADP-ribose-1''-monophosphatase (Appr-1''-pase), a ubiquitous cellular processing enzyme.	Appr-1''-pase, an important and ubiquitous cellular processing enzyme involved in the tRNA splicing pathway, catalyzes the conversion of ADP-ribose-1''monophosphate (Appr-1''-p) to ADP-ribose. The structures of the native enzyme from the yeast and its complex with ADP-ribose were determined to 1.9 A and 2.05 A, respectively. Analysis of the three-dimensional structure of this protein, selected as a target in a structural genomics project, reveals its putative function and provides clues to the catalytic mechanism. The structure of the 284-amino acid protein shows a two-domain architecture consisting of a three-layer alphabetaalpha sandwich N-terminal domain connected to a small C-terminal helical domain. The structure of Appr-1''-pase in complex with the product, ADP-ribose, reveals an active-site water molecule poised for nucleophilic attack on the terminal phosphate group. Loop-region residues Asn 80, Asp 90, and His 145 may form a catalytic triad.
Role of hydrogen bond networks and dynamics in positive and negative cooperative stabilization of a protein.	Cooperativity mediated through hydrogen bond networks in yeast iso-1-cytochrome c was studied using a thermodynamic triple mutant cycle. Three known stabilizing mutations, Asn 26 to His, Asn 52 to Ile, and Tyr 67 to Phe, were used to construct the triple mutant cycle. The side chain of His 26, a wild-type residue, forms two hydrogen bonds that bridge two substructures of the wild-type protein, and Tyr 67 and Asn 52 are part of an extensive buried hydrogen bond network. The stabilities of all variants in the triple mutant cycle were determined by guanidine hydrochloride denaturation methods and used to determine the pairwise, Delta(2)G(int), and triple interaction energies. His 26 and Ile 52 interact cooperatively (Delta(2)G(int) is 1-2 kcal/mol), whereas the two other pairs of mutations interact anticooperatively (Delta(2)G(int) is -0.5 to -1.5 kcal/mol). Previously reported structural data for iso-1-cytochrome c variants containing these mutations show that changes in the strength of the His 26 to Glu 44 hydrogen bond, apparently caused by changes in main chain dynamics, provide a mechanism for the long distance (His 26 to Phe 67 and His 26 to Ile 52) propagation of pairwise interaction energies. Opposing changes in the strength of the His 26 to Glu 44 hydrogen bond caused by the N52I and Y67F mutations generate a negative triple interaction energy (-0.9 +/-0.7 kcal/mol) that combined with cancellation of cooperative and anticooperative pairwise interactions produce apparent additivity for the stabilizing effects of the single mutations in the triple mutant variant.
The Mcm467 complex of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is preferentially activated by autonomously replicating DNA sequences.	We have analyzed the role of single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) in the modulation of the ATPase activity of Mcm467 helicase of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The ATPase activity of the Mcm467 complex is modulated in a sequence-specific manner and that the ssDNA sequences derived from the origin of DNA replication of S. cerevisiae autonomously replicating sequence 1 (ARS1) are the most effective stimulators. Synthetic oligonucleotides, such as oligo(dA) and oligo(dT), also stimulated the ATPase activity of the Mcm467 complex, where oligo(dT) was more effective than oligo(dA). However, the preference of a thymidine stretch appeared unimportant, because with yeast ARS1 derived sequences, the A-rich strand was as effective in stimulating the ATPase activity, as was the T-rich strand. Both of these strands were more effective stimulators than either oligo(dA)( )()or oligo(dT). The DNA helicase activity of Mcm467 complex is also significantly stimulated by the ARS1-derived sequences. These results indicate that the ssDNA sequences containing A and B1 motifs of ARS1, activate the Mcm467 complex and stimulate its ATPase and DNA helicase activities. Our results also indicate that the yeast replication protein A stimulated the ATPase activity of the Mcm467 complex.
Fibrillogenesis of apomyoglobin facilitated by aggregation sequence of yeast Sup35 in various regions.	To examine the effect of aggregation sequence QGGYQQQYNP from yeast Sup35 on fibril formation of sperm whale apomyoglobin (apoMb), we constructed several mutants via substitution. Urea-induced unfolding of apoMb confirms that the substitution of the aggregation sequence does not significantly affect the stability of the mutants compared to wild type (WT) at pH 4.2. Under this condition, however, despite the difference in rate most apoMb mutants form fibrils more readily than WT with distinct morphology. These results suggest that the aggregation sequence facilitates fibril assembly of apoMb at acidic pH in vitro and this facilitation depends on the regions replaced.
Patterns that define the four domains conserved in known and novel isoforms of the protein import receptor Tom20.	Tom20 is the master receptor for protein import into mitochondria. Analysis of motifs present in Tom20 sequences from fungi and animals found several highly conserved regions, including features of the transmembrane segment, the ligand-binding domain and functionally important flexible segments at the N terminus and the C terminus of the protein. Hidden Markov model searches of genome sequence data revealed novel isoforms of Tom20 in vertebrate and invertebrate animals. A three-dimensional comparative model of the novel type I Tom20, based on the structurally characterized type II isoform, shows important differences in the amino acid residues lining the ligand-binding groove, where the type I protein from animals is more similar to the fungal form of Tom20. Given that the two receptor types from mouse interact with the same set of precursor protein substrates, comparative analysis of the substrate-binding site provides unique insight into the mechanism of substrate recognition. No Tom20-related protein was found in genome sequence data from plants or protozoans, suggesting the receptor Tom20 evolved after the split of animals and fungi from the main lineage of eukaryotes.
Genetic and functional interaction of evolutionarily conserved regions of the Prp18 protein and the U5 snRNA.	Both the Prp18 protein and the U5 snRNA function in the second step of pre-mRNA splicing. We identified suppressors of mutant prp18 alleles in the gene for the U5 snRNA (SNR7). The suppressors' U5 snRNAs have either a U4-to-A or an A8-to-C mutation in the evolutionarily invariant loop 1 of U5. Suppression is specific for prp18 alleles that encode proteins with mutations in a highly conserved region of Prp18 which forms an unstructured loop in crystals of Prp18. The snr7 suppressors partly restored the pre-mRNA splicing activity that was lost in the prp18 mutants. The close functional relationship of Prp18 and U5 is emphasized by the finding that two snr7 alleles, U5A and U6A, are dominant synthetic lethal with prp18 alleles. Our results support the idea that Prp18 and the U5 snRNA act in concert during the second step of pre-mRNA splicing and suggest a model in which the conserved loop of Prp18 acts to stabilize the interaction of loop 1 of the U5 snRNA with the splicing intermediates.
Interaction with the SH3 domain protein Bem1 regulates signaling by the Saccharomyces cerevisiae p21-activated kinase Ste20.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae PAK (p21-activated kinase) family kinase Ste20 functions in several signal transduction pathways, including pheromone response, filamentous growth, and hyperosmotic resistance. The GTPase Cdc42 localizes and activates Ste20 by binding to an autoinhibitory motif within Ste20 called the CRIB domain. Another factor that functions with Ste20 and Cdc42 is the protein Bem1. Bem1 has two SH3 domains, but target ligands for these domains have not been described. Here we identify an evolutionarily conserved binding site for Bem1 between the CRIB and kinase domains of Ste20. Mutation of tandem proline-rich (PxxP) motifs in this region disrupts Bem1 binding, suggesting that it serves as a ligand for a Bem1 SH3 domain. These PxxP motif mutations affect signaling additively with CRIB domain mutations, indicating that Bem1 and Cdc42 make separable contributions to Ste20 function, which cooperate to promote optimal signaling. This PxxP region also binds another SH3 domain protein, Nbp2, but analysis of bem1Delta versus nbp2Delta strains shows that the signaling defects of PxxP mutants result from impaired binding to Bem1 rather than from impaired binding to Nbp2. Finally, the PxxP mutations also reduce signaling by constitutively active Ste20, suggesting that postactivation functions of PAKs can be promoted by SH3 domain proteins, possibly by colocalizing PAKs with their substrates. The overall results also illustrate how the final signaling function of a protein can be governed by combinatorial addition of multiple, independent protein-protein interaction modules.
Cyclin specificity in the phosphorylation of cyclin-dependent kinase substrates.	Cell-cycle events are controlled by cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), whose periodic activation is driven by cyclins. Different cyclins promote distinct cell-cycle events, but the molecular basis for these differences remains unclear. Here we compare the specificity of two budding yeast cyclins, the S-phase cyclin Clb5 and the M-phase cyclin Clb2, in the phosphorylation of 150 Cdk1 (Cdc28) substrates. About 24% of these proteins were phosphorylated more efficiently by Clb5-Cdk1 than Clb2-Cdk1. The Clb5-specific targets include several proteins (Sld2, Cdc6, Orc6, Mcm3 and Cdh1) involved in early S-phase events. Clb5 specificity depended on an interaction between a hydrophobic patch in Clb5 and a short sequence in the substrate (the RXL or Cy motif). Phosphorylation of Clb5-specific targets during S phase was reduced by replacing Clb5 with Clb2 or by mutating the substrate RXL motif, confirming the importance of Clb5 specificity in vivo. Although we did not identify any highly Clb2-specific substrates, we found that Clb2-Cdk1 possessed higher intrinsic kinase activity than Clb5-Cdk1, enabling efficient phosphorylation of a broad range of mitotic Cdk1 targets. Thus, Clb5 and Clb2 use distinct mechanisms to enhance the phosphorylation of S-phase and M-phase substrates.
The solution structure of the FATC domain of the protein kinase target of rapamycin suggests a role for redox-dependent structural and cellular stability.	The target of rapamycin (TOR) is a highly conserved Ser/Thr kinase that plays a central role in the control of cellular growth. TOR has a characteristic multidomain structure. Only the kinase domain has catalytic function; the other domains are assumed to mediate interactions with TOR substrates and regulators. Except for the rapamycin-binding domain, there are no high-resolution structural data available for TOR. Here, we present a structural, biophysical, and mutagenesis study of the extremely conserved COOH-terminal FATC domain. The importance of this domain for TOR function has been highlighted in several publications. We show that the FATC domain, in its oxidized form, exhibits a novel structural motif consisting of an alpha-helix and a COOH-terminal disulfide-bonded loop between two completely conserved cysteine residues. Upon reduction, the flexibility of the loop region increases dramatically. The structural data, the redox potential of the disulfide bridge, and the biochemical data of a cysteine to serine mutant indicate that the intracellular redox potential can affect the cellular amount of the TOR protein via the FATC domain. Because the amount of TOR mRNA is not changed, the redox state of the FATC disulfide bond is probably influencing the degradation of TOR.
Membrane topology of the STT3 subunit of the oligosaccharyl transferase complex.	The highly conserved membrane protein STT3 is part of the oligosaccharyl transferase complex in the endoplasmic reticulum of eukaryotic cells. Various experimental observations strongly suggest that STT3 contains the active site of the complex. Here, we report a detailed topology study of STT3 from two different organisms, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and mouse, using in vivo and in vitro topology mapping assays. Our results suggest that STT3 has 11 transmembrane helices and an overall N(cyt)-C(lum) orientation.
Genome-wide analysis of the functions of a conserved surface on the corepressor Tup1.	The general transcriptional repressor Tup1 is responsible for the regulation of a large, diverse set of genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and functional homologues of Tup1 have been identified in many metazoans. The crystal structure for the C-terminal portion of Tup1 has been solved and, when sequences of Tup1 homologues from fungi and metazoans were compared, a highly conserved surface was revealed. In this article, we analyze five point mutations that lie on this conserved surface. A statistical analysis of expression microarrays demonstrates that the mutant alleles are deficient in the repression of different subsets of Tup1-regulated genes. We were able to rank the mutant alleles of TUP1 based on the severity of their repression defects measured both by the number of genes derepressed and by the magnitude of that derepression. For one particular class of genes, the mutations on the conserved surface disrupted recruitment of Tup1 to the repressed promoters. However, for the majority of the genes derepressed by the Tup1 point mutants, recruitment of Tup1 to the regulated promoters is largely unaffected. These mutations affect the mechanism of repression subsequent to recruitment of the complex and likely represent a disruption of a mechanism that is conserved in fungi and metazoans. This work demonstrates that the evolutionarily conserved surface of Tup1 interacts with two separate types of proteins-sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins responsible for recruiting Tup1 to promoters as well as components that are likely to function in a conserved repression mechanism.
Coq3 and Coq4 define a polypeptide complex in yeast mitochondria for the biosynthesis of coenzyme Q.	Coenzyme Q (Q) is a redox active lipid essential for aerobic respiration in eukaryotes. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae at least eight mitochondrial polypeptides, designated Coq1-Coq8, are required for Q biosynthesis. Here we present physical evidence for a coenzyme Q-biosynthetic polypeptide complex in isolated mitochondria. Separation of digitonin-solubilized mitochondrial extracts in one- and two-dimensional Blue Native PAGE analyses shows that Coq3 and Coq4 polypeptides co-migrate as high molecular mass complexes. Similarly, gel filtration chromatography shows that Coq1p, Coq3p, Coq4p, Coq5p, and Coq6p elute in fractions higher than expected for their respective subunit molecular masses. Coq3p, Coq4p, and Coq6p coelute with an apparent molecular mass exceeding 700 kDa. Coq3 O-methyltransferase activity, a surrogate for Q biosynthesis and complex activity, also elutes at this high molecular mass. We have determined the quinone content in lipid extracts of gel filtration fractions by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and find that demethoxy-Q(6) is enriched in fractions with Coq3p. Co-precipitation of biotinylated-Coq3 and Coq4 polypeptide from digitonin-solubilized mitochondrial extracts shows their physical association. This study identifies Coq3p and Coq4p as defining members of a Q-biosynthetic Coq polypeptide complex.
Novel structure of the N terminus in yeast Fis1 correlates with a specialized function in mitochondrial fission.	Mitochondrial fission is facilitated by a multiprotein complex assembled at the division site. The required components of the fission machinery in Saccharomyces cerevisiae include Dnm1, Fis1, and Mdv1. In the present study, we determined the protein structure of yeast Fis1 using NMR spectroscopy. Although the six alpha-helices, as well as their folding, in the yeast Fis1 structure are similar to those of the tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domains of the human Fis1 structure, the two structures differ in their N termini. The N-terminal tail of human Fis1 is flexible and unstructured, whereas a major segment of the longer N terminus of yeast Fis1 is fixed to the concave face formed by the six alpha-helices in the TPR domains. To investigate the role of the fixed N terminus, exogenous Fis1 was expressed in yeast lacking the endogenous protein. Expression of yeast Fis1 protein rescued mitochondrial fission in delta fis1 yeast only when the N-terminal TPR binding segment was left intact. The presence of this segment is also correlated to the recruitment of Mdv1 to mitochondria. The conformation of the N-terminal segment embedded in the TPR pocket indicates an intra-molecular regulation of Fis1 bioactivity. Although the TPR-like helix bundle of Fis1 mediates the interaction with Dnm1 and Mdv1, the N terminus of Fis1 is a prerequisite to recruit Mdv1 to facilitate mitochondrial fission.
A systematic mutagenesis study of Ile-282 in transmembrane segment M4 of the plasma membrane H+-ATPase.	Homology models of plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase (Bukrinsky, J. T., Buch-Pedersen, M. J., Larsen, S., and Palmgren, M. G. (2001) FEBS Lett. 494, 6-10) has pointed to residues in transmembrane segment M4 as being important for proton translocation by P-type proton pumps. To test this model, alanine-scanning mutagenesis was carried out through 12 residues in the M4 of the plant plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase AHA2. An I282A mutation showed apparent reduced H(+) affinity, and this residue was subsequently substituted with all other naturally occurring amino acids by saturation mutagenesis. The ability of mutant enzymes to substitute for the yeast proton pump PMA1 was found to correlate with the size of the side chain rather than its chemical nature. Thus, smaller side chains (Gly, Ala, and Ser) at this position resulted in lower H(+) affinity and lowered levels of H(+) transport in vivo, whereas substitution with side chains of similar and larger size resulted in only minor effects. Substitutions of Ile-282 had only minor effects on ATP affinity and sensitivity toward vanadate, ruling out an indirect effect through changes in the enzyme conformational equilibrium. These results are consistent with a model in which the backbone carbonyl oxygen of Ile-282 contributes directly to proton translocation.
Examples of peptide-peptoid hybrid serine protease inhibitors based on the trypsin inhibitor SFTI-1 with complete protease resistance at the P1-P1' reactive site.	Research in the field of protease inhibitors is focused on obtaining potent, specific and protease-resistant inhibitors. To our knowledge, there are no reports in the literature that consider the application of N-substituted glycine residues (peptoid monomers) for the design of peptidomimetic protease inhibitors. We hereby present the chemical synthesis and kinetic properties of two new analogues of the trypsin inhibitor SFTI-1 modified at the P1 position. Substitution of Lys5 in SFTI-1 by N-(4-aminobutyl)-glycine and N-benzylglycine, which mimic Lys and Phe, respectively, made these analogues completely protease-resistant at their P1-P1' reactive sites. The analogues synthesised appeared to be potent inhibitors of bovine beta-trypsin and alpha-chymotrypsin. These noncovalent, competitive and selective peptide-peptoid hybrid (peptomeric) inhibitors might open the way to targeting unwanted proteolysis.
The macro domain is an ADP-ribose binding module.	The ADP-ribosylation of proteins is an important post-translational modification that occurs in a variety of biological processes, including DNA repair, transcription, chromatin biology and long-term memory formation. Yet no protein modules are known that specifically recognize the ADP-ribose nucleotide. We provide biochemical and structural evidence that macro domains are high-affinity ADP-ribose binding modules. Our structural analysis reveals a conserved ligand binding pocket among the macro domain fold. Consistently, distinct human macro domains retain their ability to bind ADP-ribose. In addition, some macro domain proteins also recognize poly-ADP-ribose as a ligand. Our data suggest an important role for proteins containing macro domains in the biology of ADP-ribose.
F1F0-ATP synthase complex interactions in vivo can occur in the absence of the dimer specific subunit e.	Evidence suggests membrane bound F(1)F(0)-ATPase complexes form stable associations such that dimers can be retrieved from detergent lysates of mitochondria isolated from a range of sources including algae, higher plants, yeast and bovine heart, and plant chloroplasts. The physiological relevance of these interactions is not clear but may be connected with the formation and structure of mitochondrial cristae. We sought to demonstrate, in vivo, the association of F(1)F(0)-ATPases in yeast cells co-expressing two b subunits each fused at its C-terminus to a GFP variant appropriate for fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET; BFP as the donor and GFP as the acceptor fluorophore). Both subunit b-GFP and b-BFP fusions were assembled into functional complexes. FRET was observed from enzyme complexes in molecular proximity in respiring cells providing the first demonstration of the association, in vivo, of F(1)F(0)-ATPase complexes. Moreover, FRET was observed within cells lacking the dimer specific subunit e, indicating structured associations can occur within the inner membrane in the absence of subunit e.
The Hsp70 Ssz1 modulates the function of the ribosome-associated J-protein Zuo1.	J-proteins are obligate partners of Hsp70s, forming a ubiquitous class of molecular chaperone machinery. The ribosome-associated Hsp70 of yeast Ssb binds nascent polypeptides as they exit the ribosome. Here we report that the ribosome-associated J-protein Zuo1 is the partner of Ssb. However, Zuo1 efficiently stimulates the ATPase activity of Ssb only when in complex with another Hsp70, Ssz1. Ssz1 binds ATP, but none of the 11 different amino acid substitutions in the ATP-binding cleft affected Ssz1 function in vivo, suggesting that neither nucleotide binding nor hydrolysis is required. We propose that Ssz1's predominant function in the cell is to facilitate Zuo1's ability to function as a J-protein partner of Ssb on the ribosome, serving as an example of an Hsp70 family member that has evolved to carry out functions distinct from that of a chaperone.
NMR structure of the amino-terminal domain from the Tfb1 subunit of TFIIH and characterization of its phosphoinositide and VP16 binding sites.	General transcription factor IIH (TFIIH) is recruited to the preinitiation complex (PIC) through direct interactions between its p62 (Tfb1) subunit and the carboxyl-terminal domain of TFIIEalpha. TFIIH has also been shown to interact with a number of transcriptional activator proteins through interactions with the same p62 (Tfb1) subunit. We have determined the NMR solution structure of the amino-terminal domain from the Tfb1 subunit of yeast TFIIH (Tfb1(1-115)). Like the corresponding domain from the human p62 protein, Tfb1(1-115) contains a PH domain fold despite a low level of sequence identity between the two functionally homologous proteins. In addition, we have performed in vitro binding studies that demonstrate that the PH domains of Tfb1 and p62 specifically bind to monophosphorylated inositides [PtdIns(5)P and PtdIns(3)P]. NMR chemical shift mapping demonstrated that the PtdIns(5)P binding site on Tfb1 (p62) is located in the basic pocket formed by beta-strands beta5-beta7 of the PH domain fold. Interestingly, the structural composition of the PtdIns(5)P binding site is different from the composition of the binding sites for phosphoinositides on prototypic PH domains. We have also determined that the PH domains from Tfb1 and p62 are sufficient for binding to the activation domain of VP16. NMR chemical shift mapping demonstrated that the VP16 binding site within the PH domain of Tfb1 (p62) overlaps with the PtdIns(5)P binding site on Tfb1 (p62). These results provide new information about the recognition of phosphoinositides by PH domains, and point to a potential role for phosphoinositides in VP16 regulation.
Mapping the interaction site of Rpb4 and Rpb7 subunits of RNA polymerase II in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Rpb4 and Rpb7, the fourth and the seventh largest subunits of RNA polymerase II, form a heterodimer in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. To identify the site of interaction between these subunits, we constructed truncation mutants of both these proteins and carried out yeast two hybrid analysis. Deletions in the amino and carboxyl terminal domains of Rpb7 abolished its interaction with Rpb4. In comparison, deletion of up to 49 N-terminal amino acids of Rpb4 reduced its interaction with Rpb7. Complete abolishment of interaction between Rpb4 and Rpb7 occurred by truncation of 1-106, 1-142, 108-221, 172-221 or 198-221 amino acids of Rpb4. Use of the yeast two-hybrid analysis in conjunction with computational analysis of the recently reported crystal structure of Rpb4/Rpb7 sub-complex allowed us to identify regions previously not suspected to be involved in the functional interaction of these proteins. Taken together, our results have identified the regions that are involved in interaction between the Rpb4 and Rpb7 subunits of S. cerevisiae RNA polymerase II in vivo.
The Rad4 homologue YDR314C is essential for strand-specific repair of RNA polymerase I-transcribed rDNA in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Summary The Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein Rad4 is involved in damage recognition in nucleotide excision repair (NER). In RNA polymerase II-transcribed regions Rad4 is essential for both NER subpathways global genome repair (GGR) and transcription coupled repair (TCR). In ribosomal DNA (rDNA), however, the RNA polymerase I-transcribed strand can be repaired in the absence of Rad4. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae the YDR314C protein shows homology to Rad4. The possible involvement of YDR314C in NER was studied by analysing strand-specific cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) removal in both RNA pol I- and RNA pol II-transcribed genes. Here we show that the Rad4-independent repair of rDNA is dependent on YDR314C. Moreover, in Rad4 proficient cells preferential repair of the transcribed strand of RNA pol I-transcribed genes was lost after deletion of YDR314C, demonstrating that Rad4 cannot replace YDR314C. CPD removal from the RNA pol II-transcribed RPB2 gene was unaffected in ydr314c mutants. We conclude that the two homologous proteins Rad4 and YDR314C are both involved in NER and probably have a similar function, but operate at different loci in the genome and are unable to replace each other.
The WD40 propeller domain of Cdh1 functions as a destruction box receptor for APC/C substrates.	Activation of the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) by Cdc20 and Cdh1 leads to ubiquitin-dependent degradation of securin and cyclin B and thereby promotes the initiation of anaphase and exit from mitosis. Cyclin B and securin ubiquitination depend on a destruction box (D box) sequence in these proteins, but how APC/C bound to Cdc20 or Cdh1 recognizes the D box is poorly understood. By using site-specific photocrosslinking in combination with mutational analyses, we show that the D box directly interacts with an evolutionarily conserved surface on the predicted WD40 propeller structure of Cdh1 and that this interaction is essential for processive substrate ubiquitination. We further show that Cdh1 specifically crosslinks to the APC/C subunit Cdc27 and that Cdh1 binding to APC/C depends on the presence of Cdc27. Our data imply that APC/C is activated by the association of Cdh1 with Cdc27, which enables APC/C to recognize the D box of substrates via Cdh1's propeller domain.
Structure-function analysis of yeast tRNA ligase.	Trl 1 is an essential 827-amino-acid enzyme that executes the end-healing and end-sealing steps of tRNA splicing in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Trl1 consists of two catalytic domains--an N-terminal adenylyltransferase/ligase component (amino acids 1-388) and a C-terminal 5'-kinase/cyclic phosphodiesterase component (amino acids 389-827)--that can function in tRNA splicing in vivo when expressed as separate polypeptides. Sedimentation analysis indicates that the ligase and kinase/CPD domains are monomeric proteins that do not form a stable complex in trans. To understand the structural requirements for the RNA ligase component, we performed a mutational analysis of amino acids that are conserved in Trl1 homologs from other fungi. Alanine scanning identified 23 new residues as essential for Trl1-(1-388) activity in vivo. Structure-activity relationships at these positions, and four essential residues defined previously, were clarified by introducing 50 different conservative substitutions. Lethal mutations of Lys114, Glu184, Glu266, and Lys284 abolished Trl1 adenylyltransferase activity in vitro. The essential elements embrace (1) putative equivalents of nucleotidyltransferase motifs I, Ia, III, IV, and V found in DNA ligases, T4 RNA ligase 2, and mRNA capping enzymes; (2) an N-terminal segment shared with the T4 RNA ligase 1 subfamily only; and (3) a constellation of conserved residues specific to fungal tRNA splicing enzymes. We identify yeastlike tRNA ligases in the proteomes of Leishmania and Trypanosoma. These findings recommend tRNA ligase as a target for antifungal and antiprotozoal drug discovery.
Phosphorylation of the RGS protein Sst2 by the MAP kinase Fus3 and use of Sst2 as a model to analyze determinants of substrate sequence specificity.	Previously, we used mass spectrometry to demonstrate pheromone-stimulated phosphorylation of Ser-539 in Sst2, a regulator of G protein signaling in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae [Garrison, T. R., et al. (1999) J. Biol. Chem. 274, 36387-36391]. Here, we show that Sst2 phosphorylation is mediated by the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase Fus3. Phosphorylation occurs within a canonical MAP kinase phosphorylation site (Pro-X-Ser/Thr-Pro, where "X" at the -1 position can be any amino acid), a consensus sequence deduced earlier from analysis of synthetic peptide substrates. In a direct test of the model, we compared Sst2 phosphorylation following systematic substitution of the -1 residue His-538. Each of the substitution mutants was suitable as a MAP kinase substrate, as shown by phosphorylation-dependent mobility shifts in vivo and/or by direct phosphorylation in vitro followed by peptide mapping and mass spectrometry sequencing. This analysis documents phosphorylation of Sst2 by Fus3 and demonstrates that the prevailing model for MAP kinase recognition is valid for a native substrate protein in vivo as well as for small synthetic peptides tested in vitro.
High-throughput crystal-optimization strategies in the South Paris Yeast Structural Genomics Project: one size fits all?	Crystallization has long been regarded as one of the major bottlenecks in high-throughput structural determination by X-ray crystallography. Structural genomics projects have addressed this issue by using robots to set up automated crystal screens using nanodrop technology. This has moved the bottleneck from obtaining the first crystal hit to obtaining diffraction-quality crystals, as crystal optimization is a notoriously slow process that is difficult to automatize. This article describes the high-throughput optimization strategies used in the Yeast Structural Genomics project, with selected successful examples.
Prions as adaptive conduits of memory and inheritance.	Changes in protein conformation drive most biological processes, but none have seized the imagination of scientists and the public alike as have the self-replicating conformations of prions. Prions transmit lethal neurodegenerative diseases by means of the food chain. However, self-replicating protein conformations can also constitute molecular memories that transmit genetic information. Here, we showcase definitive evidence for the prion hypothesis and discuss examples in which prion-encoded heritable information has been harnessed during evolution to confer selective advantages. We then describe situations in which prion-enciphered events might have essential roles in long-term memory formation, transcriptional memory and genome-wide expression patterns.
Structural basis for endosomal targeting by the Bro1 domain.	Proteins delivered to the lysosome or the yeast vacuole via late endosomes are sorted by the ESCRT complexes and by associated proteins, including Alix and its yeast homolog Bro1. Alix, Bro1, and several other late endosomal proteins share a conserved 160 residue Bro1 domain whose boundaries, structure, and function have not been characterized. The crystal structure of the Bro1 domain of Bro1 reveals a folded core of 367 residues. The extended Bro1 domain is necessary and sufficient for binding to the ESCRT-III subunit Snf7 and for the recruitment of Bro1 to late endosomes. The structure resembles a boomerang with its concave face filled in and contains a triple tetratricopeptide repeat domain as a substructure. Snf7 binds to a conserved hydrophobic patch on Bro1 that is required for protein complex formation and for the protein-sorting function of Bro1. These results define a conserved mechanism whereby Bro1 domain-containing proteins are targeted to endosomes by Snf7 and its orthologs.
Purification of MINUS: A negative regulator of microtubule nucleation in a variety of organisms.	Microtubules (MT) are important for cell behavior and maintenance, yet the factors regulating MT assembly in vivo remain obscure. In a biochemical search, we have isolated a small (4.7 kDa) acidic, phosphorylated polypeptide, which we named MINUS (microtubule nucleation suppressor) for its activity to inhibit MT nucleation [P. Fanara, B. Oback, K. Ashman, A. Podtelejnikov, R. Brandt, EMBO J. 18 (1999) 565]. Here, the purification strategy was optimized and the polypeptide purified to homogeneity from bovine brain, Drosophila, Caenorhabditis elegans and yeast. Amino acid analysis showed similar composition of MINUS from different species. In particular, MINUS was rich in glycine, threonine, isoleucine, leucine and acidic amino acids. Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry revealed a large peak for phosphorus confirming its identity as a phosphopeptide. For further purification, MINUS was separated as a single peak on reverse phase-HPLC (RP-HPLC). Preliminary sequence analysis suggested MINUS to be N-terminally blocked. However, conventional enzymatic digestions did not reveal differences in the peak profile compared to undigested MINUS. Hence, partial acid hydrolysis and proteinase K digestion was performed followed by RP-HPLC. The proteinase K digested peaks were subjected to Edman degradation (first peak, ser-pro-ser/gly-ser; second peak, tyr/arg-leu), mass spectrometry (no result) and MALDI analysis (no result). Collectively, the data suggest that MINUS belongs to a new class of MT assembly regulators. Sequence information and antibody development will be useful to examine its biological role in a definitive manner.
A global definition of expression context is conserved between orthologs, but does not correlate with sequence conservation.	The massive scale of microarray derived gene expression data allows for a global view of cellular function. Thus far, comparative studies of gene expression between species have been based on the level of expression of the gene across corresponding tissues, or on the co-expression of the gene with another gene.
Mutational analysis of the intramembranous H10 loop of yeast Nhx1 reveals a critical role in ion homoeostasis and vesicle trafficking.	Yeast Nhx1 [Na+(K+)/H+ exchanger 1] is an intracellular Na+(K+)/H+ exchanger, localizing to the late endosome where it is important for ion homoeostasis and vesicle trafficking. Phylogenetic analysis of NHE (Na+/H+ exchanger) sequences has identified orthologous proteins, including HsNHE6 (human NHE6), HsNHE7 and HsNHE9 of unknown physiological role. These appear distinct from well-studied mammalian plasma membrane isoforms (NHE1-NHE5). To explore the differences between plasma membrane and intracellular NHEs and understand the link between ion homoeostasis and vesicle trafficking, we examined the consequence of replacing residues in the intramembranous H10 loop of Nhx1 between transmembrane segments 9 and 10. The critical role for the carboxy group of Glu355 in ion transport is consistent with the invariance of this residue in all NHEs. Surprisingly, residues specifically conserved in the intracellular isoforms (such as Phe357 and Tyr361) could not be replaced with closely similar residues (leucine and phenylalanine) found in the plasma membrane isoforms without loss of function, revealing unexpected side chain specificity. The trafficking phenotypes of all Nhx1 mutants, including hygromycin-sensitivity and missorting of carboxypeptidase Y, were found to directly correlate with pH homoeostasis defects and could be proportionately corrected by titration with weak base. The present study demonstrates the importance of the H10 loop of the NHE family, highlights the differences between plasma membrane and intracellular isoforms and shows that trafficking defects are tightly coupled with pH homoeostasis.
Oligomerization of the yeast alpha-factor receptor: implications for dominant negative effects of mutant receptors.	Oligomerization of G protein-coupled receptors is commonly observed, but the functional significance of oligomerization for this diverse family of receptors remains poorly understood. We used bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) to examine oligomerization of Ste2p, a G protein-coupled receptor that serves as the receptor for the alpha-mating pheromone in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, under conditions where the functional effects of oligomerization could be examined. Consistent with previous results from fluorescence resonance energy transfer (Overton, M. C., and Blumer, K. J. (2000) Curr. Biol. 10, 341-344), we detected efficient energy transfer between Renilla luciferase and a modified green fluorescent protein individually fused to truncated alpha-factor receptors lacking the cytoplasmic C-terminal tail. In addition, the low background of the BRET system allowed detection of significant, but less efficient, energy transfer between full-length receptors. The reduced efficiency of energy transfer between full-length receptors does not appear to result from different levels of receptor expression. Instead, attachment of fluorescent reporter proteins to the full-length receptors appears to significantly increase the distance between reporters. Mutations that were previously reported to block dimerization of truncated alpha-factor receptors reduce but do not completely eliminate BRET transfer between receptors. Dominant negative effects of mutant alleles of alpha-factor receptors appear to be mediated by receptor oligomerization since these effects are abrogated by introduction of additional mutations that reduce oligomerization. We find that heterodimers of normal and dominant negative receptors are defective in their ability to signal. Thus, signal transduction by oligomeric receptors appears to be a cooperative process requiring an interaction between functional monomers.
Human homologs of Ubc6p ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme and phosphorylation of HsUbc6e in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress.	Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme Ubc6p is a tail-anchored protein that is localized to the cytoplasmic face of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane and has been implicated in the degradation of many misfolded membrane proteins in yeast. We have undertaken characterization studies of two human homologs, hsUbc6 and hsUbc6e. Both possess tail-anchored protein motifs, display high conservation in their catalytic domains, and are functional ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes as determined by in vitro thiol-ester assay. Both also display induction by the unfolded protein response, a feature of many ER-associated degradation (ERAD) components. Post-translational modification involving phosphorylation of hsUbc6e was observed to be ER-stress-related and dependent on signaling of the PRK-like ER kinase (PERK). The phosphorylation site was mapped to Ser-184, which resides within the uncharacterized region linking the highly conserved catalytic core and the C-terminal transmembrane domain. Phosphorylation of hsUbc6e also did not alter stability, subcellular localization, or interaction with a partner ubiquitin-protein isopeptide ligase. Assays of hsUbc6e(S184D) and hsUbc6e(S184E), which mimic the phosphorylated state, suggest that phosphorylation may reduce capacity for forming ubiquitin-enzyme thiol-esters. The occurrence of two distinct Ubc6p homologs in vertebrates, including one with phosphorylation modification in response to ER stress, emphasizes diversity in function between these Ub-conjugating enzymes during ERAD processes.
The crystal structure of the C-terminal domain of Vps28 reveals a conserved surface required for Vps20 recruitment.	The endosomal sorting complex I required for transport (ESCRT-I) is composed of the three subunits Vps23/Tsg101, Vps28 and Vps37. ESCRT-I is recruited to cellular membranes during multivesicular endosome biogenesis and by enveloped viruses such as HIV-1 to mediate budding from the cell. Here, we describe the crystal structure of a conserved C-terminal domain from Sacharomyces cerevisiae Vps28 (Vps28-CTD) at 3.05 A resolution which folds independently into a four-helical bundle structure. Co-expression experiments of Vps28-CTD, Vps23 and Vps37 suggest that Vps28-CTD does not directly participate in ESCRT-I assembly and may thus act as an adaptor module for downstream interaction partners. We show through mutagenesis studies that Vps28-CTD employs its strictly conserved surface in the interaction with the ESCRT-III factor Vps20. Furthermore, we present evidence that Vps28-CTD is sufficient to rescue an equine infectious anaemia virus (EIAV) Gag late domain deletion. Vps28-CTD mutations abolishing Vps20 interaction in vitro also prevent the rescue of the EIAV Gag late domain mutant consistent with a potential direct Vps28-ESCRT-III Vps20 recruitment. Therefore, the physiological relevant EIAV Gag-Alix interaction can be functionally replaced by a Gag-Vps28-CTD fusion. Because both Alix and Vps28-CTD can directly recruit ESCRT-III proteins, ESCRT-III assembly coupled to Vps4 action may therefore constitute the minimal budding machinery for EIAV release.
YKE4 (YIL023C) encodes a bidirectional zinc transporter in the endoplasmic reticulum of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	YIL023C encodes a member of the SLC39A, or ZIP, family, which we refer to as yeast KE4 (YKE4) after its mouse ortholog. Yke4p was localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane using Yke4p-specific antiserum. YKE4 is not an essential gene; however, deletion of YKE4 resulted in a sensitivity to calcofluor white and poor growth at 36 degrees C on respiratory substrates containing high zinc. Overexpression of transition metal transporters Zrc1p and Cot1p or the mouse orthologue mKe4 in Deltayke4 suppressed the poor growth at 36 degrees C on respiratory substrates. We found that the role of Yke4p depends on the zinc status of the cells. In a zinc-adequate environment, Yke4p transports zinc into the secretory pathway, and the deletion of YKE4 leads to a zinc-suppressible cell wall defect. In high zinc medium, transport of zinc into the secretory pathway through Yke4p is a way to eliminate zinc from the cytosol, and deletion of YKE4 leads to toxic zinc accumulation in the cytosol. Under low cytosolic zinc conditions, however, Yke4p removes zinc from the secretory pathway, and deletion of YKE4 partially compensates for the loss of Msc2p, an ER zinc importer, and therefore helps to alleviate ER stress. In our model, Yke4p balances zinc levels between the cytosol and the secretory pathway, whereas the previously described Msc2p-Zrg17p ER zinc importer complex functions mainly in zinc-depleted conditions to ensure a ready supply of zinc essential for ER functions, such as phospholipid biosynthesis and unfolded protein response.
Mitochondrial protein sorting: differentiation of beta-barrel assembly by Tom7-mediated segregation of Mdm10.	The mitochondrial outer membrane contains two distinct machineries for protein import and protein sorting that function in a sequential manner: the general translocase of the outer membrane (TOM complex) and the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex), which is dedicated to beta-barrel proteins. The SAM(core) complex consists of three subunits, Sam35, Sam37, and Sam50, that can associate with a fourth subunit, the morphology component Mdm10, to form the SAM(holo) complex. Whereas the SAM(core) complex is required for the biogenesis of all beta-barrel proteins, Mdm10 and the SAM(holo) complex play a selective role in beta-barrel biogenesis by promoting assembly of Tom40 but not of porin. We report that Tom7, a conserved subunit of the TOM complex, functions in an antagonistic manner to Mdm10 in biogenesis of Tom40 and porin. We show that Tom7 promotes segregation of Mdm10 from the SAM(holo) complex into a low molecular mass form. Upon deletion of Tom7, the fraction of Mdm10 in the SAM(holo) complex is significantly increased, explaining the opposing functions of Tom7 and Mdm10 in beta-barrel sorting. Thus the role of Tom7 is not limited to the TOM complex. Tom7 functions in mitochondrial protein biogenesis by a new mechanism, segregation of a sorting component, leading to a differentiation of beta-barrel assembly.
Synthetic lethal and biochemical analyses of NAD and NADH kinases in Saccharomyces cerevisiae establish separation of cellular functions.	Production of NADP and NADPH depends on activity of NAD and NADH kinases. Here we characterized all combinations of mutants in yeast NAD and NADH kinases to determine their physiological roles. We constructed a diploid strain heterozygous for disruption of POS5, encoding mitochondrial NADH kinase, UTR1, cytosolic NAD kinase, and YEF1, a UTR1-homologous gene we characterized as encoding a low specific activity cytosolic NAD kinase. pos5 utr1 is a synthetic lethal combination rescued by plasmid-borne copies of the POS5 or UTR1 genes or by YEF1 driven by the ADH1 promoter. Respiratory-deficient and oxidative damage-sensitive defects in pos5 mutants were not made more deleterious by yef1 deletion, and a quantitative growth phenotype of pos5 and its arginine auxotrophy were repaired by plasmid-borne POS5 but not UTR1 or ADH1-driven YEF1. utr1 haploids have a slow growth phenotype on glucose not exacerbated by yef1 deletion but reversed by either plasmid-borne UTR1 or ADH1-driven YEF1. The defect in fermentative growth of utr1 mutants renders POS5 but not POS5-dependent mitochondrial genome maintenance essential because rho-utr1 derivatives are viable. Purified Yef1 has similar nucleoside triphosphate specificity but substantially lower specific activity and less discrimination in favor of NAD versus NADH phosphorylation than Utr1. Low expression and low intrinsic NAD kinase activity of Yef1 and the lack of phenotype associated with yef1 suggest that Utr1 and Pos5 are responsible for essentially all NAD/NADH kinase activity in vivo. The data are compatible with a model in which there is no exchange of NADP, NADPH, or cytoplasmic NAD/NADH kinase between nucleocytoplasmic and mitochondrial compartments, but the cytoplasm is exposed to mitochondrial NAD/NADH kinase during the transit of the molecule.
Topology of yeast Ndc1p: predictions for the human NDC1/NET3 homologue.	The nuclear pore complex is the predominant structure in the nuclear envelope that spans the double nuclear membranes of all eukaryotes. Yeasts have one additional organelle that is also embedded in the nuclear envelope: the spindle pole body, which functions as the microtubule organizing center. The only protein known to localize to and be important in the assembly of both of these yeast structures is the integral membrane protein, Ndc1p. However, no homologues of Ndc1p had been characterized in metazoa. Here, we identify and analyze NDC1 homologues that are conserved throughout evolution. We show that the overall topology of these homologues is conserved. Each contains six transmembrane segments in its N-terminal half and has a large soluble C-terminal half of approximately 300 amino acids. Charge distribution analysis infers that the N- and C-termini are exposed to the cytoplasm. Limited proteolysis of yeast Ndc1p in cellular membranes confirms the orientation of its C-terminus. Although it is not known whether vertebrate NDC1 protein localizes to nuclear pores like its yeast counterpart, the human homologue contains three FG repeats in the C-terminus, a feature of many nuclear pore proteins. Moreover, a small region containing mutations that affect assembly of the nuclear pore in yeast is highly conserved throughout evolution. Lastly, we bring together data from another study to demonstrate that the human homologue of NDC1 is the known inner nuclear membrane protein, NET3.
Capturing cellular machines by systematic screens of protein complexes.	Two recent studies have provided the most complete screen for protein complexes in yeast to date, in which partners were identified for approximately half of the proteome. A comparison shows that these two datasets are complementary. In addition, one of the analyses points to a modular organization of the cellular protein network. These data will prove useful in defining principles and trends that arise when combining large-scale datasets of different natures, and in deriving properties of protein machines in cellular systems.
Structural determinants of the rate of protein evolution in yeast.	We investigate how a protein's structure influences the rate at which its sequence evolves. Our basic hypothesis is that proteins with highly designable structures (structures that are encoded by many sequences) will evolve more rapidly. Recent theoretical advances argue that structures with a higher density of interresidue contacts are more designable, and we show that high contact density is correlated with an increased rate of sequence evolution in yeast. In addition, we investigate the correlations between the rate of sequence evolution and several other structural descriptors, carefully controlling for the strong effect of expression level on evolutionary rate. Overall, we find that the structural descriptors that we consider appear to explain roughly 10% of the variation in rates of protein evolution in yeast. We also show that despite the well-known trend for buried residues to be more conserved, proteins with a higher fraction of buried residues, nonetheless, tend to evolve their sequences more rapidly. We suggest that this effect is due to the increased designability of structures with more buried residues. Our results provide evidence that protein structure plays an important role in shaping the rate of sequence evolution and provide evidence to support recent theoretical advances linking structural designability to contact density.
The GCN4 bZIP can bind to noncognate gene regulatory sequences.	We show that a minimalist basic region/leucine zipper (bZIP) hybrid, comprising the yeast GCN4 basic region and C/EBP leucine zipper, can target mammalian and other gene regulatory sequences naturally targeted by other bZIP and basic/helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins. We previously reported that this hybrid, wt bZIP, is capable of sequence-specific, high-affinity binding of DNA comparable to that of native GCN4 to the cognate AP-1 and CRE DNA sites. In this work, we used DNase I footprinting and electrophoretic mobility shift assay to show that wt bZIP can also specifically target noncognate gene regulatory sequences: C/EBP (CCAAT/enhancer binding protein, 5'-TTGCGCAA), XRE1 (Xenobiotic response element, 5'-TTGCGTGA), HRE (HIF response element, 5'-GCACGTAG), and the E-box (Enhancer box, 5'-CACGTG). Although wt bZIP still targets AP-1 with strongest affinity, both DNA-binding specificity and affinity are maintained with wt bZIP binding to noncognate gene regulatory sequences: the dissociation constant for wt bZIP in complex with AP-1 is 13 nM, while that for C/EBP is 120 nM, XRE1 240 nM, and E-box and HRE are in the microM range. These results demonstrate that the bZIP possesses the versatility to bind various sequences with varying affinities, illustrating the potential to fine-tune a designed protein's affinity for its DNA target. Thus, the bZIP scaffold may be a powerful tool in design of small, alpha-helical proteins with desired DNA recognition properties.
The coordinated evolution of yeast proteins is constrained by functional modularity.	Functional modularity is a key attribute of cellular systems and has important roles in evolution. However, the extent to which functional modularity affects protein evolution is largely unknown. Here, we analyzed the evolution of both sequence and expression level of proteins in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and found that proteins within the same functional modules evolve at more similar rates than those between different modules. We also found stronger co-evolution of expression levels between proteins within functional modules than between them. These results suggest that a coordinated evolution of both the sequence and expression level of proteins is constrained by functional modularity.
The physical basis of how prion conformations determine strain phenotypes.	A principle that has emerged from studies of protein aggregation is that proteins typically can misfold into a range of different aggregated forms. Moreover, the phenotypic and pathological consequences of protein aggregation depend critically on the specific misfolded form. A striking example of this is the prion strain phenomenon, in which prion particles composed of the same protein cause distinct heritable states. Accumulating evidence from yeast prions such as [PSI+] and mammalian prions argues that differences in the prion conformation underlie prion strain variants. Nonetheless, it remains poorly understood why changes in the conformation of misfolded proteins alter their physiological effects. Here we present and experimentally validate an analytical model describing how [PSI+] strain phenotypes arise from the dynamic interaction among the effects of prion dilution, competition for a limited pool of soluble protein, and conformation-dependent differences in prion growth and division rates. Analysis of three distinct prion conformations of yeast Sup35 (the [PSI+] protein determinant) and their in vivo phenotypes reveals that the Sup35 amyloid causing the strongest phenotype surprisingly shows the slowest growth. This slow growth, however, is more than compensated for by an increased brittleness that promotes prion division. The propensity of aggregates to undergo breakage, thereby generating new seeds, probably represents a key determinant of their physiological impact for both infectious (prion) and non-infectious amyloids.
Unwinding single RNA molecules using helicases involved in eukaryotic translation initiation.	The small (40 S) subunit of the eukaryotic ribosome may have to scan more than 2000 nucleotides (>600 nm) from its 5'cap recruiting point on an mRNA molecule before initiating on a translation start codon. As with many other processes in living cells, including transcription, editing, mRNA splicing, pre-rRNA processing, RNA transport and RNA decay, scanning is facilitated by helicase activity. However, precise quantitative data on the molecular mechanism of scanning, including the roles of helicases, are lacking. Here, we describe a novel atomic force microscopy (AFM)-based procedure to examine the roles of two yeast helicases, eIF4A and Ded1, previously implicated in translation initiation by genetic and biochemical studies. Our results show that eIF4A, especially in the presence of its "cofactor" eIF4B, promotes ATP-dependent unwinding of localised secondary structure in long RNA molecules under tensional loading, albeit only at high protein:RNA ratios. Thus eIF4A can act to separate only a limited number of base-pairs, possibly via a steric unwinding mechanism. In contrast, Ded1 is more effective in reducing (by up to 50 pN at an AFM loading rate of 14 nNs(-1)) the force necessary to disrupt an RNA stem-loop, and thus shows significant kinetic competence to facilitate fast unwinding. These single molecule experiments indicate that Ded1 is likely to act as the more potent unwinding factor on natural mRNA substrates.
A complex of Yos9p and the HRD ligase integrates endoplasmic reticulum quality control into the degradation machinery.	A quality-control system surveys the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum for terminally misfolded proteins. Polypeptides singled out by this system are ultimately degraded by the cytosolic ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Key components of both the endoplasmic reticulum quality-control system and the degradation machinery have been identified, but a connection between the two systems has remained elusive. Here, we report an association between the endoplasmic reticulum quality-control lectin Yos9p and Hrd3p, a component of the ubiquitin-proteasome system that links these pathways. We identify designated regions in the luminal domain of Hrd3p that interact with Yos9p and the ubiquitin ligase Hrd1p. Binding of misfolded proteins occurs through Hrd3p, suggesting that Hrd3p recognises proteins that deviate from their native conformation, whereas Yos9p ensures that only terminally misfolded polypeptides are degraded.
The FK506-binding protein, Fpr4, is an acidic histone chaperone.	Fpr4, a FK506-binding protein (FKBP), is a recently identified novel histone chaperone. How it interacts with histones and facilitates their deposition onto DNA, however, are not understood. Here, we report a functional analysis that shows Fpr4 forms complexes with histones and facilitates nucleosome assembly like previously characterized acidic histone chaperones. We also show that the chaperone activity of Fpr4 resides solely in an acidic domain, while the peptidylprolyl isomerase domain conserved among all FKBPs inhibits the chaperone activity. These observations argue that Fpr4, while unique structurally, deposits histones onto DNA for nucleosome assembly through the well-established mechanism shared by other chaperones.
Phenotypic effects of membrane protein overexpression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Large-scale protein overexpression phenotype screens provide an important complement to the more common gene knockout screens. Here, we have targeted the so far poorly understood Saccharomyces cerevisiae membrane proteome and report growth phenotypes for a strain collection overexpressing approximately 600 C-terminally tagged integral membrane proteins grown both under normal and three different stress conditions. Although overexpression of most membrane proteins reduce the growth rate in synthetic defined medium, we identify a large number of proteins that, when overexpressed, confer specific resistance to various stress conditions. Our data suggest that regulation of glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor biosynthesis and the Na(+)/K(+) homeostasis system constitute major downstream targets of the yeast PKA/RAS pathway and point to a possible connection between the early secretory pathway and the cells' response to oxidative stress. We also have quantified the expression levels for >550 membrane proteins, facilitating the choice of well expressing proteins for future functional and structural studies.
A global topology map of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae membrane proteome.	The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is, arguably, the best understood eukaryotic model organism, yet comparatively little is known about its membrane proteome. Here, we report the cloning and expression of 617 S. cerevisiae membrane proteins as fusions to a C-terminal topology reporter and present experimentally constrained topology models for 546 proteins. By homology, the experimental topology information can be extended to approximately 15,000 membrane proteins from 38 fully sequenced eukaryotic genomes.
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae orthologue of the human protein phosphatase 4 core regulatory subunit R2 confers resistance to the anticancer drug cisplatin.	The anticancer agents cisplatin and oxaliplatin are widely used in the treatment of human neoplasias. A genome-wide screen in Saccharomyces cerevisiae previously identified PPH3 and PSY2 among the top 20 genes conferring resistance to these anticancer agents. The mammalian orthologue of Pph3p is the protein serine/threonine phosphatase Ppp4c, which is found in high molecular mass complexes bound to a regulatory subunit R2. We show here that the putative S. cerevisiae orthologue of R2, which is encoded by ORF YBL046w, binds to Pph3p and exhibits the same unusually high asymmetry as mammalian R2. Despite the essential function of Ppp4c-R2 in microtubule-related processes at centrosomes in higher eukaryotes, S. cerevisiae diploid strains with homozygous deletion of YBL046w and two or one functional copies of the TUB2 gene were viable and no more sensitive to microtubule-depolymerizing drugs than the control strain. The protein encoded by YBL046w exhibited a predominantly nuclear localization. These studies suggest that the centrosomal function of Ppp4c-R2 is not required or may be performed by a different phosphatase in yeast. Homozygous diploid deletion strains of S. cerevisiae, pph3Delta, ybl046wDelta and psy2Delta, were all more sensitive to cisplatin than the control strain. The YBL046w gene therefore confers resistance to cisplatin and was termed PSY4 (platinum sensitivity 4). Ppp4c, R2 and the putative orthologue of Psy2p (termed R3) are shown here to form a complex in Drosophila melanogaster and mammalian cells. By comparison with the yeast system, this complex may confer resistance to cisplatin in higher eukaryotes.
Solution structure of Urm1 and its implications for the origin of protein modifiers.	Protein modifiers are involved in diverse biological processes and regulate the activity or function of target proteins by covalently conjugating to them. Although ubiquitin and a number of ubiquitin-like protein modifiers (Ubls) in eukaryotes have been identified, no protein modifier has been found in prokaryotes; thus, their evolutionary origin remains a puzzle. To infer the evolutionary relationships between the protein modifiers and sulfur carrier proteins, we solved the solution NMR structure of the Urm1 (ubiquitin-related modifier-1) protein from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Both structural comparison and phylogenetic analysis of the ubiquitin superfamily, with emphasis on the Urm1 family, indicate that Urm1 is the unique "molecular fossil" that has the most conserved structural and sequence features of the common ancestor of the entire superfamily. The similarities of 3D structure and hydrophobic and electrostatic surface features between Urm1 and MoaD (molybdopterin synthase small subunit) suggest that they may interact with partners in a similar manner, and similarities between Urm1-Uba4 and MoaD-MoeB establish an evolutionary link between ATP-dependent protein conjugation in eukaryotes and ATP-dependent cofactor sulfuration.
Probing the role of E272 in quinol oxidation of mitochondrial complex III.	Bifurcated electron transfer during ubiquinol oxidation is the key reaction of complex III catalysis, but the molecular basis of this process is still not clear. E272 of the conserved cytochrome b PEWY motif has been suggested as a ligand and proton acceptor for ubiquinol oxidation at center P. We introduced the two replacement mutations, E272D and E272Q, into the mitochondrially encoded cytochrome b gene by biolistic transformation to study their effects on substrate binding and catalysis. Both substitutions resulted in a lower ubiquinol cytochrome c reductase activity and affect the KM for ubiquinol. The E272 carboxylate stabilizes stigmatellin binding, and in accordance, both variants are resistant to stigmatellin. Large structural changes in the cofactor environment as well as in the binding pocket can be excluded. The mutations do not perturb the midpoint potentials of the heme groups. The sensitivity toward the respective distal and proximal niche inhibitors HDBT and myxothiazol is retained. However, both mutations provoke subtle structural alterations detected by redox FTIR. They affect binding and oxidation of ubiquinol, and they promote electron short-circuit reactions resulting in production of reactive oxygen species. The aspartate substitution modifies the environment of the reduced Rieske protein as monitored by EPR. Both variants alter the pH dependence of the enzyme activity. Diminished activity at low pH coincides with the loss of one protonatable group with a pKa of approximately 6.2 compared to three pKa values in the wild type, supporting the role of E272 in proton transfer. The conserved glutamate appears to influence the accurate formation of the enzyme-substrate complex and to govern the efficiency of catalysis.
Phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetase contains a dispensable RNA-binding domain that contributes to the editing of noncognate aminoacyl-tRNA.	Phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetase (PheRS) is a multidomain (alphabeta)2 heterotetrameric protein responsible for synthesizing Phe-tRNA(Phe) during protein synthesis. Previous studies showed that the alpha subunit forms the catalytic core of the enzyme, while the beta subunit contains a number of autonomous structural modules with a wide range of functions including tRNA anticodon binding and editing of the misaminoacylated species Tyr-tRNA(Phe). The B2 domain of the beta subunit is a structural homologue of the EMAPII/OB fold, which has been shown in other systems to contribute to tRNA binding. Structural studies of PheRS indicated that the B2 domain is distant from bound tRNA(Phe), leaving the role of this module in question. On the basis of homology modeling with other EMAPII domain-containing proteins, the 110 amino acid B2 domain was deleted to produce PheRS deltaB2. Full-length PheRS and PheRS deltaB2 showed comparable kinetics for in vitro aminoacylation, and both enzymes complemented a defect in phenylalanylation in vivo. PheRS deltaB2 showed a 2-fold drop compared to full-length PheRS in the catalytic efficiency (kcat/KM) of Tyr-tRNA(Phe) hydrolysis, suggesting a role for the B2 domain in post-transfer editing. A comparison of tRNA binding by full-length PheRS and PheRS deltaB2 indicated that the B2 domain acts as a secondary tRNA-binding site that could contribute to editing by promoting the translocation of mischarged tRNA to the editing site of PheRS. This proposed role for the B2 domain of PheRS is consistent with previous studies, suggesting that the highly conserved EMAPII fold is able to modulate the affinity of tRNA for its primary binding site.
The multiple personalities of Alix.	Alix is a cytosolic protein in mammalian cells that was originally identified on the basis of its association with pro-apoptotic signaling. More recent evidence has established that Alix has a hand in regulating other cellular mechanisms, including endocytic membrane trafficking and cell adhesion. Although Alix appears to participate directly in these various activities, the role it plays in each process has largely been inferred from the functions of proteins with which it interacts. For example, recruitment of Alix to endosomes is mediated by its N-terminal Bro1 domain, the structure of which was recently solved for its yeast orthologue, Bro1. The diversity of Alix functions is due to its proline-rich C-terminus, which provides multiple protein-binding sites. With this blueprint in hand, we can now ask whether Alix acts simply as an adaptor that links different proteins into networks or, instead, contributes a specific function to distinct molecular machineries.
Sel1-like repeat proteins in signal transduction.	Solenoid proteins, which are distinguished from general globular proteins by their modular architectures, are frequently involved in signal transduction pathways. Proteins from the tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) and Sel1-like repeat (SLR) families share similar alpha-helical conformations but different consensus sequence lengths and superhelical topologies. Both families are characterized by low sequence similarity levels, rendering the identification of functional homologous difficult. Therefore current knowledge of the molecular and cellular functions of the SLR proteins Sel1, Hrd3, Chs4, Nif1, PodJ, ExoR, AlgK, HcpA, Hsp12, EnhC, LpnE, MotX, and MerG has been reviewed. Although SLR proteins possess different cellular functions they all seem to serve as adaptor proteins for the assembly of macromolecular complexes. Sel1, Hrd3, Hsp12 and LpnE are activated under cellular stress. The eukaryotic Sel1 and Hrd3 proteins are involved in the ER-associated protein degradation, whereas the bacterial LpnE, EnhC, HcpA, ExoR, and AlgK proteins mediate the interactions between bacterial and eukaryotic host cells. LpnE and EnhC are responsible for the entry of L. pneumophila into epithelial cells and macrophages. ExoR from the symbiotic microorganism S. melioti and AlgK from the pathogen P. aeruginosa regulate exopolysaccaride synthesis. Nif1 and Chs4 from yeast are responsible for the regulation of mitosis and septum formation during cell division, respectively, and PodJ guides the cellular differentiation during the cell cycle of the bacterium C. crescentus. Taken together the SLR motif establishes a link between signal transduction pathways from eukaryotes and bacteria. The SLR motif is so far absent from archaea. Therefore the SLR could have developed in the last common ancestor between eukaryotes and bacteria.
A luminal surveillance complex that selects misfolded glycoproteins for ER-associated degradation.	How the ER-associated degradation (ERAD) machinery accurately identifies terminally misfolded proteins is poorly understood. For luminal ERAD substrates, this recognition depends on their folding and glycosylation status as well as on the conserved ER lectin Yos9p. Here we show that Yos9p is part of a stable complex that organizes key components of ERAD machinery on both sides of the ER membrane, including the transmembrane ubiquitin ligase Hrd1p. We further demonstrate that Yos9p, together with Kar2p and Hrd3p, forms a luminal surveillance complex that both recruits nonnative proteins to the core ERAD machinery and assists a distinct sugar-dependent step necessary to commit substrates for degradation. When Hrd1p is uncoupled from the Yos9p surveillance complex, degradation can occur independently of the requirement for glycosylation. Thus, Yos9p/Kar2p/Hrd3p acts as a gatekeeper, ensuring correct identification of terminally misfolded proteins by recruiting misfolded forms to the ERAD machinery, contributing to the interrogation of substrate sugar status, and preventing glycosylation-independent degradation.
Distinct ubiquitin-ligase complexes define convergent pathways for the degradation of ER proteins.	Many misfolded endoplasmic reticulum (ER) proteins are eliminated by ERAD, a process in which substrates are polyubiquitylated and moved into the cytosol for proteasomal degradation. We have identified in S. cerevisiae distinct ubiquitin-ligase complexes that define different ERAD pathways. Proteins with misfolded ER-luminal domains use the ERAD-L pathway, in which the Hrd1p/Hrd3p ligase forms a near stoichiometric membrane core complex by binding to Der1p via the linker protein Usa1p. This core complex associates through Hrd3p with Yos9p, a substrate recognition protein in the ER lumen. Substrates with misfolded intramembrane domains define a pathway (ERAD-M) that differs from ERAD-L by being independent of Usa1p and Der1p. Membrane proteins with misfolded cytosolic domains use the ERAD-C pathway and are directly targeted to the Doa10p ubiquitin ligase. All three pathways converge at the Cdc48p ATPase complex. These results lead to a unifying concept for ERAD that may also apply to mammalian cells.
Identifying cycling genes by combining sequence homology and expression data.	The expression of genes during the cell division process has now been studied in many different species. An important goal of these studies is to identify the set of cycling genes. To date, this was done independently for each of the species studied. Due to noise and other data analysis problems, accurately deriving a set of cycling genes from expression data is a hard problem. This is especially true for some of the multicellular organisms, including humans.
Increased mobility in the membrane targeting PX domain induced by phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate.	Phosphoinositides (PIs) are concentrated in specific subcellular membranes in order to recruit and regulate cytosolic proteins responsible for vesicular trafficking, cytoskeletal rearrangement, and eukaryotic cell growth, differentiation, and survival. Phox homology (PX) domains are found in proteins that are integral players in endocytic pathways. For example, Vam7p is targeted by its PX domain to phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate [PtdIns(3)P] in the yeast vacuole, where it interacts with other SNARE proteins and GTPases of the vesicular membrane fusion machinery. Although several PX structures have been solved, the role of dynamics in their interactions with membrane lipids is unclear. Here, we present the first detailed characterization of the backbone dynamics of a PX domain, that of Vam7p, in the presence and absence of its ligand. The structure appears to tumble more rapidly in solution upon binding PtdIns(3)P, revealing a conformational change that includes adjustments in the flexible membrane insertion loop (MIL). The flexibilities of the MIL and domain termini are pronounced in both states, while the alpha1 and alpha2 helices are rigid. Dynamic effects are spread across the binding pocket, with PtdIns(3)P inducing altered mobility of different residues on multiple timescales, including a shift in the MIL to slower timescale motions. The bound state is more dynamic overall, particularly in the beta-sheet lobe, which packs against the ligand's 3-phosphate. Thus, the induced dynamic and structural effects are transduced from the buried heart of the binding pocket in the helical lobe through the beta-sheet lobe to the exposed surface of the bilayer-inserted protein.
Tuning the rate and pH accessibility of a conformational electron transfer gate.	Methods to fine-tune the rate of a fast conformational electron transfer (ET) gate involving a His-heme alkaline conformer of iso-1-cytochrome c (iso-1-Cytc) and to adjust the pH accessibility of a slow ET gate involving a Lys-heme alkaline conformer are described. Fine-tuning the fast ET gate employs a strategy of making surface mutations in a substructure unfolded in the alkaline conformer. To make the slow ET gate accessible at neutral pH, the strategy involves mutations at buried sequence positions which are expected to more strongly perturb the stability of native versus alkaline iso-1-Cytc. To fine-tune the rate of the fast His 73-heme ET gate, we mutate the surface-exposed Lys 79 to Ala (A79H73 variant). This mutation also simplifies ET gating by removing Lys 79, which can serve as a ligand in the alkaline conformer of iso-1-Cytc. To adjust the pH accessibility of the slow Lys 73-heme ET gate, we convert the buried side chain Asn 52 to Gly and also mutate Lys 79 to Ala to simplify ET gating (A79G52 variant). ET kinetics is studied as a function of pH using hexaammineruthenium(II) chloride (a6Ru2+) to reduce the variants. Both variants show fast direct ET reactions dependent on [a6Ru2+] and slower gated ET reactions that are independent of [a6Ru2+]. The observed gated ET rates correlate well with rates for the alkaline-to-native state conformational change measured independently. Together with the previously reported H73 variant (Baddam, S.; Bowler, B. E. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 9702-9703), the A79H73 variant allows His 73-heme-mediated ET gating to be fine-tuned from 75 to 200 ms. The slower Lys 73-heme (15-20 s time scale) ET gate for the A79G52 variant is now accessible over the pH range 6-8.
In vitro evidence for the dual function of Alg2 and Alg11: essential mannosyltransferases in N-linked glycoprotein biosynthesis.	The biosynthesis of asparagine-linked glycoproteins utilizes a dolichylpyrophosphate-linked glycosyl donor (Dol-PP-GlcNAc(2)Man(9)Glc(3)), which is assembled by the series of membrane-bound glycosyltransferases that comprise the dolichol pathway. This biosynthetic pathway is highly conserved throughout eukaryotic evolution. While complementary genetic and bioinformatic approaches have enabled identification of most of the dolichol pathway enzymes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the roles of two of the mannosyltransferases in the pathway, Alg2 and Alg11, have remained ambiguous because these enzymes appear to catalyze only two of the remaining four unannotated transformations. To address this issue, a biochemical approach was taken using recombinant Alg2 and Alg11 from S. cerevisiae and defined dolichylpyrophosphate-linked substrates. A cell-membrane fraction isolated from Escherichia coli overexpressing thioredoxin-tagged Alg2 was used to demonstrate that this enzyme actually carries out an alpha1,3-mannosylation, followed by an alpha1,6-mannosylation, to form the first branched pentasaccharide intermediate of the pathway. Then, using thioredoxin-tagged Alg2 for the chemoenzymatic synthesis of the dolichylpyrophosphate pentasaccharide, it was thus possible to define the biochemical function of Alg11, which is to catalyze the next two sequential alpha1,2-mannosylations. The elucidation of the dual function of each of these enzymes thus completes the identification of the entire ensemble of glycosyltransferases that comprise the dolichol pathway.
Intrinsic disorder is a common feature of hub proteins from four eukaryotic interactomes.	Recent proteome-wide screening approaches have provided a wealth of information about interacting proteins in various organisms. To test for a potential association between protein connectivity and the amount of predicted structural disorder, the disorder propensities of proteins with various numbers of interacting partners from four eukaryotic organisms (Caenorhabditis elegans, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Drosophila melanogaster, and Homo sapiens) were investigated. The results of PONDR VL-XT disorder analysis show that for all four studied organisms, hub proteins, defined here as those that interact with > or = 10 partners, are significantly more disordered than end proteins, defined here as those that interact with just one partner. The proportion of predicted disordered residues, the average disorder score, and the number of predicted disordered regions of various lengths were higher overall in hubs than in ends. A binary classification of hubs and ends into ordered and disordered subclasses using the consensus prediction method showed a significant enrichment of wholly disordered proteins and a significant depletion of wholly ordered proteins in hubs relative to ends in worm, fly, and human. The functional annotation of yeast hubs and ends using GO categories and the correlation of these annotations with disorder predictions demonstrate that proteins with regulation, transcription, and development annotations are enriched in disorder, whereas proteins with catalytic activity, transport, and membrane localization annotations are depleted in disorder. The results of this study demonstrate that intrinsic structural disorder is a distinctive and common characteristic of eukaryotic hub proteins, and that disorder may serve as a determinant of protein interactivity.
Crystal structure of the PP2A phosphatase activator: implications for its PP2A-specific PPIase activity.	PTPA, an essential and specific activator of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), functions as a peptidyl prolyl isomerase (PPIase). We present here the crystal structures of human PTPA and of the two yeast orthologs (Ypa1 and Ypa2), revealing an all alpha-helical protein fold that is radically different from other PPIases. The protein is organized into two domains separated by a groove lined by highly conserved residues. To understand the molecular mechanism of PTPA activity, Ypa1 was cocrystallized with a proline-containing PPIase peptide substrate. In the complex, the peptide binds at the interface of a peptide-induced dimer interface. Conserved residues of the interdomain groove contribute to the peptide binding site and dimer interface. Structure-guided mutational studies showed that in vivo PTPA activity is influenced by mutations on the surface of the peptide binding pocket, the same mutations that also influenced the in vitro activation of PP2Ai and PPIase activity.
Engineering of promoter replacement cassettes for fine-tuning of gene expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The strong overexpression or complete deletion of a gene gives only limited information about its control over a certain phenotype or pathway. Gene function studies based on these methods are therefore incomplete. To effect facile manipulation of gene expression across a full continuum of possible expression levels, we recently created a library of mutant promoters. Here, we provide the detailed characterization of our yeast promoter collection comprising 11 mutants of the strong constitutive Saccharomyces cerevisiae TEF1 promoter. The activities of the mutant promoters range between about 8% and 120% of the activity of the unmutated TEF1 promoter. The differences in reporter gene expression in the 11 mutants were independent of the carbon source used, and real-time PCR confirmed that these differences were due to varying levels of transcription (i.e., caused by varying promoter strengths). In addition to a CEN/ARS plasmid-based promoter collection, we also created promoter replacement cassettes. They enable genomic integration of our mutant promoter collection upstream of any given yeast gene, allowing detailed genotype-phenotype characterizations. To illustrate the utility of the method, the GPD1 promoter of S. cerevisiae was replaced by five TEF1 promoter mutants of different strengths, which allowed analysis of the impact of glycerol 3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity on the glycerol yield.
Construction of a Pichia pastoris cell-surface display system using Flo1p anchor system.	A Pichia pastoris cell-surface display system was constructed using a Flo1p anchor system, which was developed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The lipase from Rhizopus oryzae with a pro sequence (ProROL) was used as the model protein and was genetically fused to the anchor consisting of amino acids 1-1099 of Flo1p (FS anchor). The resulting fusion protein FSProROL was expressed under the control of the alcohol oxidase 1 promoter (pAOX1). The fluorescence microscopy of immunolabeled P. pastoris cells revealed that ProROL was displayed on the cell surface, and Western blot analysis revealed that the fusion protein FSProROL was noncovalently attached to the cell wall and highly glycosylated. The lipase activity of P. pastoris cells was affected by the methanol concentration for the induction phase. Surprisingly, the activity of lipase displayed on the cells incubated at 60 degrees C was not only stable but also increased to about 6.5 times the initial value after 4 h incubation.
Using annotated peptide mass spectrum libraries for protein identification.	A system for creating a library of tandem mass spectra annotated with corresponding peptide sequences was described. This system was based on the annotated spectra currently available in the Global Proteome Machine Database (GPMDB). The library spectra were created by averaging together spectra that were annotated with the same peptide sequence, sequence modifications, and parent ion charge. The library was constructed so that experimental peptide tandem mass spectra could be compared with those in the library, resulting in a peptide sequence identification based on scoring the similarity of the experimental spectrum with the contents of the library. A software implementation that performs this type of library search was constructed and successfully used to obtain sequence identifications. The annotated tandem mass spectrum libraries for the Homo sapiens, Mus musculus, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae proteomes and search software were made available for download and use by other groups.
Prevalent structural disorder in E. coli and S. cerevisiae proteomes.	Intrinsically unstructured proteins, which exist without a well-defined 3D structure, carry out essential functions and occur with high frequency, as predicted for genomes. The generality of this phenomenon, however, is questioned by the uncertainty of what fraction of genomes actually encodes for expressed proteins. Here, we used two independent bioinformatic predictors, PONDR VSL1, and IUPred, to demonstrate that disorder prevails in the recently characterized proteomes and essential proteins of E. coli and S. cerevisiae, at levels exceeding that estimated from the genomes. The S. cerevisiae proteome contains three times as much disorder as that of E. coli, with 50-60% of proteins containing at least one long (>30 residues) disordered segment. This evolutionary advance can be explained by the observation that disorder is much higher in Gene Ontology categories related to regulatory, as opposed to metabolic, functions, and also in categories unique to yeast. Thus, protein disorder is a widespread and functionally important phenomenon, which needs to be characterized in full detail for understanding complex organisms at the molecular level.
Selective ion tracing and MSn analysis of peptide digests from FSBA-treated kinases for the analysis of protein ATP-binding sites.	Kinases play a key role in many cellular processes by catalyzing the transfer of phosphoryl groups from ATP to a broad number of substrates, including amino acids on target proteins. The reagent 5'-fluorosulfonylbenzoyl-5'-adenosine (FSBA) has been widely used to identify ATP-binding sites in kinases since it reacts with nucleophilic amino acids occurring within these motifs, determining a mass increase of 433 Da. In this study, we present a versatile MS approach that has been developed to recognize labeled peptides generated after enzymatic digestion of FSBA-treated kinases. Using selective ion tracing and MS(2)/MS(3) experiments, we were able to easily identify peptides occurring at protein ATP-binding sites, also affording a complete characterization of the modified amino acids. This methodology may be used in the development of future parent ion scanning-based applications directed to large scale analysis of kinases within complex protein mixtures.
IOP1, a novel hydrogenase-like protein that modulates hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha activity.	A central means by which mammalian cells respond to low oxygen tension is through the activation of the transcription factor HIF-1 (hypoxia-inducible factor-1). Under normoxic conditions, HIF-1alpha (the alpha subunit of HIF-1) is targeted for rapid degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Under hypoxic conditions, this degradation is inhibited, thereby leading to the stabilization and activation of HIF-1alpha. Here, we report the identification of IOP1 (iron-only hydrogenase-like protein 1), a protein homologous with enzymes present in anaerobic organisms that contain a distinctive iron-sulfur cluster. IOP1 is present in a broad range of cell types. Knockdown of IOP1 using siRNA (small interfering RNA) in mammalian cells increases protein levels of HIF-1alpha under both normoxic and hypoxic conditions, and augments hypoxia-induced HRE (hypoxia response element) reporter gene and endogenous HIF-1alpha target gene expressions. We find that IOP1 knockdown up-regulates HIF-1alpha mRNA levels, thereby providing a mechanism by which knockdown induces the observed effects. The results collectively provide evidence that IOP1 is a component of the protein network that regulates HIF-1alpha in mammalian cells.
Characterization of squalene epoxidase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae by applying terbinafine-sensitive variants.	Squalene epoxidase (SE) is the target of terbinafine, which specifically inhibits the fungal enzyme in a noncompetitive manner. On the basis of functional homologies to p-hydroxybenzoate hydroxylase (PHBH) from Pseudomonas fluorescens, the Erg1 protein contains two flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) domains and one nucleotide binding (NB) site. By in vitro mutagenesis of the ERG1 gene, which codes for the Saccharomyces cerevisiae SE, we isolated erg1 alleles that conferred increased terbinafine sensitivity or that showed a lethal phenotype when they were expressed in erg1-knockout strain KLN1. All but one of the amino acid substitutions affected conserved FAD/nucleotide binding sites. The G(25)S, D(335)X (W, F, P), and G(210)A substitutions in the FADI, FADII, and NB sites, respectively, rendered the SE variants nonfunctional. The G(30)S and L(37)P variants exhibited decreased enzymatic activity, accompanied by a sevenfold increase in erg1 mRNA levels and an altered sterol composition, and rendered KLN1 more sensitive not only to allylamines (10 to 25 times) but also to other ergosterol biosynthesis inhibitors. The R(269)G variant exhibited moderately reduced SE activity and a 5- to 10-fold increase in allylamine sensitivity but no cross-sensitivity to the other ergosterol biosynthesis inhibitors. To further elucidate the roles of specific amino acids in SE function and inhibitor interaction, a homology model of Erg1p was built on the basis of the crystal structure of PHBH. All experimental data obtained with the sensitive Erg1 variants support this model. In addition, the amino acids responsible for terbinafine resistance, although they are distributed along the sequence of Erg1p, cluster on the surface of the Erg1p model, giving rise to a putative binding site for allylamines.
NPFXD-mediated endocytosis is required for polarity and function of a yeast cell wall stress sensor.	The actin-associated protein Sla1p, through its SHD1 domain, acts as an adaptor for the NPFX(1,2)D endocytic targeting signal in yeast. Here we report that Wsc1p, a cell wall stress sensor, depends on this signal-adaptor pair for endocytosis. Mutation of NPFDD in Wsc1p or expression of Sla1p lacking SHD1 blocked Wsc1p internalization. By live cell imaging, endocytically defective Wsc1p was not concentrated at sites of endocytosis. Polarized distribution of Wsc1p to regions of cell growth was lost in the absence of endocytosis. Mutations in genes necessary for endosome to Golgi traffic caused redistribution of Wsc1p from the cell surface to internal compartments, indicative of recycling. Inhibition of Wsc1p endocytosis caused defects in polarized deposition of the cell wall and increased sensitivity to perturbation of cell wall synthesis. Our results reveal that the NPFX(1,2)D-Sla1p system is responsible for directing Wsc1p into an endocytosis and recycling pathway necessary to maintain yeast cell wall polarity. The dynamic localization of Wsc1p, a sensor of the extracellular wall in yeast, resembles polarized distribution of certain extracellular matrix-sensing integrins through endocytic recycling.
The cytoplasmic Hsp70 chaperone machinery subjects misfolded and endoplasmic reticulum import-incompetent proteins to degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome system.	The mechanism of protein quality control and elimination of misfolded proteins in the cytoplasm is poorly understood. We studied the involvement of cytoplasmic factors required for degradation of two endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-import-defective mutated derivatives of carboxypeptidase yscY (DeltassCPY* and DeltassCPY*-GFP) and also examined the requirements for degradation of the corresponding wild-type enzyme made ER-import incompetent by removal of its signal sequence (DeltassCPY). All these protein species are rapidly degraded via the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Degradation requires the ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes Ubc4p and Ubc5p, the cytoplasmic Hsp70 Ssa chaperone machinery, and the Hsp70 cochaperone Ydj1p. Neither the Hsp90 chaperones nor Hsp104 or the small heat-shock proteins Hsp26 and Hsp42 are involved in the degradation process. Elimination of a GFP fusion (GFP-cODC), containing the C-terminal 37 amino acids of ornithine decarboxylase (cODC) directing this enzyme to the proteasome, is independent of Ssa1p function. Fusion of DeltassCPY* to GFP-cODC to form DeltassCPY*-GFP-cODC reimposes a dependency on the Ssa1p chaperone for degradation. Evidently, the misfolded protein domain dictates the route of protein elimination. These data and our further results give evidence that the Ssa1p-Ydj1p machinery recognizes misfolded protein domains, keeps misfolded proteins soluble, solubilizes precipitated protein material, and escorts and delivers misfolded proteins in the ubiquitinated state to the proteasome for degradation.
Structural basis for the interaction of the myosin light chain Mlc1p with the myosin V Myo2p IQ motifs.	Calmodulin, regulatory, and essential myosin light chain are evolutionary conserved proteins that, by binding to IQ motifs of target proteins, regulate essential intracellular processes among which are efficiency of secretory vesicles release at synapsis, intracellular signaling, and regulation of cell division. The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae calmodulin Cmd1 and the essential myosin light chain Mlc1p share the ability to interact with the class V myosin Myo2p and Myo4 and the class II myosin Myo1p. These myosins are required for vesicle, organelle, and mRNA transport, spindle orientation, and cytokinesis. We have used the budding yeast model system to study how calmodulin and essential myosin light chain selectively regulate class V myosin function. NMR structural analysis of uncomplexed Mlc1p and interaction studies with the first three IQ motifs of Myo2p show that the structural similarities between Mlc1p and the other members of the EF-hand superfamily of calmodulin-like proteins are mainly restricted to the C-lobe of these proteins. The N-lobe of Mlc1p presents a significantly compact and stable structure that is maintained both in the free and complexed states. The Mlc1p N-lobe interacts with the IQ motif in a manner that is regulated both by the IQ motifs sequence as well as by light chain structural features. These characteristic allows a distinctive interaction of Mlc1p with the first IQ motif of Myo2p when compared with calmodulin. This finding gives us a novel view of how calmodulin and essential light chain, through a differential binding to IQ1 of class V myosin motor, regulate this activity during vegetative growth and cytokinesis.
Yeast TFIID serves as a coactivator for Rap1p by direct protein-protein interaction.	In vivo studies have previously shown that Saccharomyces cerevisiae ribosomal protein (RP) gene expression is controlled by the transcription factor repressor activator protein 1 (Rap1p) in a TFIID-dependent fashion. Here we have tested the hypothesis that yeast TFIID serves as a coactivator for RP gene transcription by directly interacting with Rap1p. We have found that purified recombinant Rap1p specifically interacts with purified TFIID in pull-down assays, and we have mapped the domains of Rap1p and subunits of TFIID responsible. In vitro transcription of a UAS(RAP1) enhancer-driven reporter gene requires both Rap1p and TFIID and is independent of the Fhl1p-Ifh1p coregulator. UAS(RAP1) enhancer-driven transactivation in extracts depleted of both Rap1p and TFIID is efficiently rescued by addition of physiological amounts of these two purified factors but not TATA-binding protein. We conclude that Rap1p and TFIID directly interact and that this interaction contributes importantly to RP gene transcription.
Inner nuclear membrane proteins Asi1, Asi2, and Asi3 function in concert to maintain the latent properties of transcription factors Stp1 and Stp2.	In yeast the homologous transcription factors Stp1 and Stp2 are synthesized as latent cytoplasmic precursors with N-terminal regulatory domains. In response to extracellular amino acids the regulatory domains are endoproteolytically excised by the plasma membrane-localized SPS sensor. The processed forms of Stp1 and Stp2 efficiently enter the nucleus and induce expression of amino acid permease genes. We recently reported that the inner nuclear membrane protein Asi1 is required to prevent unprocessed forms of Stp1 and Stp2, which ectopically enter the nucleus, from binding SPS sensor-regulated promoters. Here we show that Asi3, an Asi1 homolog, and Asi2 are integral proteins of the inner nuclear membrane that function in concert with Asi1. In cells lacking any of the three Asi proteins, unprocessed full-length forms of Stp1 and Stp2 constitutively induce SPS sensor-regulated genes. Our results demonstrate that the Asi proteins ensure the fidelity of SPS sensor signaling by maintaining the dormant, or repressed state, of gene expression in the absence of inducing signals. This study documents additional components of a novel mechanism controlling transcription in eukaryotic cells.
PUF protein-mediated deadenylation is catalyzed by Ccr4p.	PUF proteins control gene expression by binding to the 3'-untranslated regions of specific mRNAs and triggering mRNA decay or translational repression. Here we focus on the mechanism of PUF-mediated regulation. The yeast PUF protein, Mpt5p, regulates HO mRNA and stimulates removal of its poly(A) tail (i.e. deadenylation). Mpt5p repression in vivo is dependent on POP2, a component of the cytoplasmic Ccr4p-Pop2p-Not complex that deadenylates mRNAs. In this study, we elucidate the individual roles of the Ccr4p and Pop2p deadenylases in Mpt5p-regulated deadenylation. Both in vivo and in vitro, Pop2p and Ccr4p proteins are required for Mpt5p-regulated deadenylation of HO. However, the requirements for the two proteins differ dramatically: the enzymatic activity of Ccr4p is essential, whereas that of Pop2p is dispensable. We conclude that Pop2p is a bridge through which the PUF protein recruits the Ccr4p enzyme to the target mRNA, thereby stimulating deadenylation. Our data suggest that PUF proteins may enhance mRNA degradation and repress expression by both deadenylation-dependent and -independent mechanisms, using the same Pop2p bridge to recruit a multifunctional Pop2p complex to the mRNA.
A novel Cdc42-interacting domain of the yeast polarity establishment protein Bem1. Implications for modulation of mating pheromone signaling.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the Rho-type small GTPase Cdc42 is activated by its guanine-nucleotide exchange factor Cdc24 to polarize the cell for budding and mating. A multidomain protein Bem1 interacts not only with Cdc42 but also with Cdc24 and the effectors of Cdc42, including the p21-activated kinase Ste20, to function as a scaffold for cell polarity establishment. Although Bem1 interacts with Cdc24 and Ste20 via its PB1 and the second SH3 domains (SH3b), respectively, it is unclear how Bem1 binds Cdc42. Here we show that a region comprising the SH3b and its C-terminal flanking segment termed CI (SH3b-CI) directly interacts with Cdc42. A dual-bait reverse two-hybrid approach revealed that the CI is critical to the interaction: N253D substitution in the CI abolishes the binding of the SH3b-CI to Cdc42 but not to the proline-rich region of Ste20, whereas W192K substitution in the SH3b has the opposite effect. Nevertheless, the SH3b-CI interacts with Ste20 proline-rich region and Cdc42 in a mutually exclusive manner. The N253D substitution renders cellular growth temperature-sensitive and suppresses mating. The W192K-induced mating defect is exacerbated by the N253D substitution and suppressed by increasing the dosage of Ste20 provided that the CI is intact. Intriguingly, Cdc42 can mediate an indirect interaction of the SH3b-CI to the CRIB domain of Ste20. These results suggest that the SH3b and the CI collaborate in tethering of Ste20 to Bem1 to ensure efficient mating pheromone signaling.
"Prion-proof" for [PIN+]: infection with in vitro-made amyloid aggregates of Rnq1p-(132-405) induces [PIN+].	Prions are self-propagating, infectious protein conformations. The mammalian prion, PrP(Sc), responsible for neurodegenerative diseases like bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE; "mad cow" disease) and Creutzfeldt-Jakob's disease, appears to be a beta-sheet-rich amyloid conformation of PrP(c) that converts PrP(c) into PrP(Sc). However, an unequivocal demonstration of "protein-only" infection by PrP(Sc) is still lacking. So far, protein only infection has been proven for three prions, [PSI(+)], [URE3] and [Het-s], all of fungal origin. Considerable evidence supports the hypothesis that another protein, the yeast Rnq1p, can form a prion, [PIN(+)]. While Rnq1p does not lose any known function upon prionization, [PIN(+)] has interesting positive phenotypes: facilitating the appearance and destabilization of other prions as well as the aggregation of polyglutamine extensions of the Huntingtin protein. Here, we polymerize a Gln/Asn-rich recombinant fragment of Rnq1p into beta-sheet-rich amyloid-like aggregates. While the method used for [PSI(+)] and [URE3] infectivity assays did not yield protein-only infection for the Rnq1p aggregates, we did successfully obtain protein-only infection by modifying the protocol. This work proves that [PIN(+)] is a prion mediated by amyloid-like aggregates of Rnq1p, and supports the hypothesis that heterologous prions affect each other's appearance and propagation through interaction of their amyloid-like regions.
Structural polymorphism of chromodomains in Chd1.	Chromodomain from heterochromatin protein 1 and polycomb protein is known to be a lysine-methylated histone H3 tail-binding module. Chromo-helicase/ATPase DNA-binding protein 1 (CHD1) is an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factor, containing two tandem chromodomains. In human CHD1, both chromodomains are essential for specific binding to a K4 methylated histone H3 (H3 MeK4) peptide and are found to bind cooperatively in the crystal structure. For the budding yeast homologue, Chd1, the second but not the first chromodomain was once reported to bind to an H3 MeK4 peptide. Here, we reveal that neither the second chromodomain nor a region containing tandem chromodomains from yeast Chd1 bind to any lysine-methylated or arginine-methylated histone peptides that we examined. In addition, we examined the structures of the chromodomains from Chd1 by NMR. Although the tertiary structure of the region containing tandem chromodomains could not be obtained, the secondary structure deduced from NMR is well conserved in the tertiary structures of the corresponding first and second chromodomains determined individually by NMR. Both chromodomains of Chd1 demonstrate a structure similar to that of the corresponding part of CHD1, consisting of a three-stranded beta-sheet followed by a C-terminal alpha-helix. However, an additional helix between the first and second beta-strands, which is found in both of the first chromodomains of Chd1 and CHD1, is positioned in an entirely different manner in Chd1 and CHD1. In human CHD1 this helix forms the peptide-binding site. The amino acid sequences of the chromodomains could be well aligned on the basis of these structures. The alignment showed that yeast Chd1 lacks several key functional residues, which are responsible for specific binding to a methylated lysine residue in other chromodomains. Chd1 is likely to have no binding affinity for any H3 MeK peptide, as found in other chromodomain proteins.
A cadmium-transporting P1B-type ATPase in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Detoxification and homeostatic acquisition of metal ions are vital for all living organisms. We have identified PCA1 in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae as an overexpression suppressor of copper toxicity. PCA1 possesses signatures of a P1B-type heavy metal-transporting ATPase that is widely distributed from bacteria to humans. Copper resistance conferred by PCA1 is not dependent on catalytic activity, but it appears that a cysteine-rich region located in the N terminus sequesters copper. Unexpectedly, when compared with two independent natural isolates and an industrial S. cerevisiae strain, the PCA1 allele of the common laboratory strains we have examined possesses a missense mutation in a predicted ATP-binding residue conserved in P1B-type ATPases. Consistent with a previous report that identifies an equivalent mutation in a copper-transporting P1B-type ATPase of a Wilson disease patient, the PCA1 allele found in laboratory yeast strains is nonfunctional. Overexpression or deletion of the functional allele in yeast demonstrates that PCA1 is a cadmium efflux pump. Cadmium as well as copper and silver, but not other metals examined, dramatically increase PCA1 protein expression through post-transcriptional regulation and promote subcellular localization to the plasma membrane. Our study has revealed a novel metal detoxification mechanism in yeast mediated by a P1B-type ATPase that is unique in structure, substrate specificity, and mode of regulation.
The histone chaperone anti-silencing function 1 stimulates the acetylation of newly synthesized histone H3 in S-phase.	Anti-silencing function 1 (Asf1) is a highly conserved chaperone of histones H3/H4 that assembles or disassembles chromatin during transcription, replication, and repair. We have found that budding yeast lacking Asf1 has greatly reduced levels of histone H3 acetylated at lysine 9. Lysine 9 is acetylated on newly synthesized budding yeast histone H3 prior to its assembly onto newly replicated DNA. Accordingly, we found that the vast majority of H3 Lys-9 acetylation peaked in S-phase, and this S-phase peak of H3 lysine 9 acetylation was absent in yeast lacking Asf1. By contrast, deletion of ASF1 has no effect on the S-phase specific peak of H4 lysine 12 acetylation; another modification carried by newly synthesized histones prior to chromatin assembly. We show that Gcn5 is the histone acetyltransferase responsible for the S-phase-specific peak of H3 lysine 9 acetylation. Strikingly, overexpression of Asf1 leads to greatly increased levels of H3 on acetylation on lysine 56 and Gcn5-dependent acetylation on lysine 9. Analysis of a panel of Asf1 mutations that modulate the ability of Asf1 to bind to histones H3/H4 demonstrates that the histone binding activity of Asf1 is required for the acetylation of Lys-9 and Lys-56 on newly synthesized H3. These results demonstrate that Asf1 does not affect the stability of the newly synthesized histones per se, but instead histone binding by Asf1 promotes the efficient acetylation of specific residues of newly synthesized histone H3.
Expanded protein information at SGD: new pages and proteome browser.	The recent explosion in protein data generated from both directed small-scale studies and large-scale proteomics efforts has greatly expanded the quantity of available protein information and has prompted the Saccharomyces Genome Database (SGD; http://www.yeastgenome.org/) to enhance the depth and accessibility of protein annotations. In particular, we have expanded ongoing efforts to improve the integration of experimental information and sequence-based predictions and have redesigned the protein information web pages. A key feature of this redesign is the development of a GBrowse-derived interactive Proteome Browser customized to improve the visualization of sequence-based protein information. This Proteome Browser has enabled SGD to unify the display of hidden Markov model (HMM) domains, protein family HMMs, motifs, transmembrane regions, signal peptides, hydropathy plots and profile hits using several popular prediction algorithms. In addition, a physico-chemical properties page has been introduced to provide easy access to basic protein information. Improvements to the layout of the Protein Information page and integration of the Proteome Browser will facilitate the ongoing expansion of sequence-specific experimental information captured in SGD, including post-translational modifications and other user-defined annotations. Finally, SGD continues to improve upon the availability of genetic and physical interaction data in an ongoing collaboration with BioGRID by providing direct access to more than 82,000 manually-curated interactions.
Structural and biochemical characterization of the yeast exosome component Rrp40.	The exosome is a protein complex that is important in both degradation and 3'-processing of eukaryotic RNAs. We present the crystal structure of the Rrp40 exosome subunit from Saccharomyces cerevisiae at a resolution of 2.2 A. The structure comprises an S1 domain and an unusual KH (K homology) domain. Close packing of the S1 and KH domains is stabilized by a GxNG sequence, which is uniquely conserved in exosome KH domains. Nuclear magnetic resonance data reveal the presence of a manganese-binding site at the interface of the two domains. Isothermal titration calorimetry shows that Rrp40 and archaeal Rrp4 alone have very low intrinsic affinity for RNA. The affinity of an archaeal core exosome for RNA is significantly increased in the presence of the S1-KH subunit Rrp4, indicating that multiple subunits might contribute to cooperative binding of RNA substrates by the exosome.
Effects of randomizing the Sup35NM prion domain sequence on formation of amyloid fibrils in vitro.	The mechanism by which proteins aggregate and form amyloid fibrils is still elusive. In order to preclude interference by cellular factors and to clarify the role of the primary sequence of Sup35p prion domain in formation of amyloid fibrils, we generated five Sup35NM variants by randomizing amino acid sequences in PrDs without altering the amino acid composition and analyzed the in vitro process of amyloid fibril formation. The results showed that each of the five Sup35NM variants polymerized into amyloid fibrils in vitro under native conditions. Furthermore, the Sup35NM variants showed differences in their aggregation time courses. These findings indicate that specific amino acid sequence features in PrD can modify the rate of conversion of Sup35p into amyloid fibrils in vitro.
The histone chaperone Asf1 at the crossroads of chromatin and DNA checkpoint pathways.	Nucleosome assembly involves deposition of a heterotetramer of histones H3/H4 onto DNA followed by two heterodimers of histones H2A/H2B. Cycles of nucleosome assembly and disassembly are essential to cellular events such as replication, transcription, and DNA repair. After synthesis in the cytoplasm, histones are shuttled into the nucleus where they are associated with chaperone proteins. Chaperones of histones H3/H4 include CAF-I, the Hir proteins, and Asf1. CAF-I and the Hir proteins function as replication-coupled and replication-independent deposition factors for H3/H4, respectively, whereas Asf1 may play a role in both pathways. In addition to acting as assembly factors, histone chaperones assist nucleosome dissociation from DNA and they may recruit other proteins to chromatin. The past few years have witnessed a notable accumulation of genetic, biochemical, and structural data on Asf1, which motivated this review. We discuss the sequence and structural features of Asf1 before considering its roles in nucleosome assembly/disassembly, the cellular response to DNA damage, and the regulation of gene expression. We emphasize the key role of Asf1 as a central node in a network of partners that place it at the crossroads of chromatin and DNA checkpoint pathways.
Schistosoma mansoni: the IMP4 gene is involved in DNA repair/tolerance after treatment with alkylating agent methyl methane sulfonate.	Using a functional complementation strategy, we have isolated a Schistosoma mansoni cDNA that complemented Escherichia coli mutant strains which are defective in the DNA base excision repair pathway. This cDNA partially complemented the MMS-sensitive phenotype of these strains. The sequence of the isolated cDNA was homologous to genes involved in the RNA metabolism pathway, especially ScIMP4 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. To establish whether the S. mansoni cDNA clone could complement yeast ScIMP4-defective mutants, we constructed a yeast haploid strain that coded for a truncated Imp4p protein. This mutant strain was treated with different DNA damaging agents, but showed only MMS sensitivity. The functional homology between the ScIMP4 gene and the cDNA from S. mansoni was verified by partial complementation of the mutant yeast with the worm's gene. This gene appears to be involved in DNA repair and RNA metabolism in both S. mansoni and S. cerevisiae.
Specific membrane recruitment of Uso1 protein, the essential endoplasmic reticulum-to-Golgi tethering factor in yeast vesicular transport.	Uso1 is a yeast essential protein that functions to tether vesicles in the ER-to-Golgi transport. Its recruitment to the ER-derived vesicles has been demonstrated in in vitro membrane transport systems using semi-intact cells. Here we report that the binding of Uso1 to specific membranes can be detected through simple sucrose density block centrifugation. The purified Uso1 protein binds to slowly sedimenting membranes generated from rapidly sedimenting P10 membranes. These membranes were produced dependent on ATP hydrolysis, contained COPII vesicle components, but had neither of the coat subunits or ER proteins, which indicates that they were representative of the uncoated ER-derived COPII vesicles. The slowly sedimenting membranes of different origins were physically linked when they were mixed in the presence of Uso1. The C-terminal acidic region was not required in membrane binding. The presence of membranes to which Uso1 could bind in the yeast cell lysate was detected using the current method.
Relevance of phenylalanine 216 in the affinity of Saccharomyces cerevisiae phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase for Mn(II).	Saccharomyces cerevisiae phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) carboxykinase catalyzes the reversible formation of oxaloacetate and adenosine triphosphate from PEP, adenosine diphosphate and carbon dioxide, and uses Mn(2+) as the activating metal ion. Comparison with the crystalline structure of homologous Escherichia coli PEP carboxykinase [Tari et al. (1997) Nature Struct. Biol. 4, 990-994] shows that Lys(213) is one of the ligands to Mn(2+) at the enzyme active site. Coordination of Mn(2+) to a lysyl residue is not common and suggests a low pK (a) value for the epsilon-NH(2) group of Lys(213). In this work, we evaluate the role of neighboring Phe(216) in contributing to provide a low polarity microenvironment suitable to keep the epsilon-NH(2) of Lys(213) in the unprotonated form. Mutation Phe216Tyr shows that the introduction of a hydroxyl group in the lateral chain of the residue produces a substantial loss in the enzyme affinity for Mn(2+), suggesting an increase of the pK (a) of Lys(213). In agreement with this interpretation, theoretical calculations indicate an alkaline shift of 2.8 pH units in the pK (a) of the epsilon-amino group of Lys(213) upon Phe216Tyr mutation.
The alpha helix of ubiquitin interacts with yeast cyclin-dependent kinase subunit CKS1.	Ubiquitin serves as a molecular zipcode to direct and sort ubiquitinylated proteins into distinct biological pathways. Although novel modes of ubiquitin interaction have recently been characterized, conventional ubiquitin-binding domains (UBDs) recognize ubiquitin through a hydrophobic pocket centered around isoleucine 44 and lined by residues in beta sheets 3 and 4. In this study, we report a novel mode of interaction between ubiquitin and the cyclin-dependent kinase subunit of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Cks1p, an adaptor protein involved in transcriptional regulation through recruitment of proteasomal subunits to gene promoters. Cks1p interacts specifically with monoubiquitin and tetraubiquitin with an affinity several orders of magnitude greater than that of other ubiquitin-binding domains and in an unconventional fashion, which differs from interactions documented so far between ubiquitin and conventional UBDs. The loop between helices alpha 1 and alpha 2, and to a minor extent the N-terminal alpha-helix of Cks1p, are involved in the interaction with the alpha-helix of ubiquitin, instead of its I44-centered hydrophobic pocket. Not only is this the first time the alpha-helix of ubiquitin is implicated in a protein/protein interaction, thereby shedding new light on the mechanisms of ubiquitin recognition, but also the first report of a direct physical interaction between ubiquitin and Cks1p, inferring a role for ubiquitin binding in the transcriptional function of Cks1p.
Arg-Pro-X-Ser/Thr is a consensus phosphoacceptor sequence for the meiosis-specific Ime2 protein kinase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Ime2 is a meiosis-specific protein kinase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that is functionally related to cyclin-dependent kinase. Although Ime2 regulates multiple steps in meiosis, only a few of its substrates have been identified. Here we show that Ime2 phosphorylates Sum1, a repressor of meiotic gene transcription, on Thr-306. Ime2 protein kinase assays with Sum1 mutants and synthetic peptides define a consensus Arg-Pro-X-Ser/Thr motif that is required for efficient phosphorylation by Ime2. The carboxyl residue adjacent to the phosphoacceptor (+1 position) also influences the efficiency of Ime2 phosphorylation with alanine being a preferred residue. This information has predictive value in identifying new potential Ime2 targets as shown by the ability of Ime2 to phosphorylate Sgs1 and Gip1 in vitro and could be important in differentiating mitotic and meiotic regulatory pathways.
The characterization and role of zinc binding in yeast Cox4.	Yeast Cox4 is a zinc binding subunit of cytochrome c oxidase. Cox4 is the only cofactor-containing subunit that is not directly part of the catalytic core of the enzyme located in the mitochondrial inner membrane. The Zn(II) site is shown to be distinct from the bovine ortholog, as it results from the x-ray structure of the entire cytochrome c oxidase in having a single histidyl residue and three conserved cysteines residues in the coordination sphere. Substitutions at the Cys ligand positions result in non-functional Cox4 proteins that fail to lead to cytochrome oxidase assembly. Limited function exists in His-119 mutants when overexpressed. Zn(II) binding in Cox4 is, therefore, important for the stability of the complex. The solution structure of yeast Cox4 elucidated by multidimensional NMR reveals a C-terminal globular domain consisting of two beta sheets analogous to the bovine ortholog except the loop containing the coordinating His in the yeast protein and the fourth Cys in the bovine protein are in different positions in the two structures. The conformation of this loop is dictated by the different sequence position of the fourth coordinating zinc ligand. The Zn(II) ion is buried within the domain, consistent with its role in structural stability. Potential functions of this matrix-facing subunit are discussed.
Structure-function analysis of the cuprous oxidase activity in Fet3p from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The Fet3 protein from Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a multicopper oxidase with specificity toward Fe(II) and Cu(I). Fet3p turnover of Fe(II) supports high affinity iron uptake across the yeast plasma membrane, whereas its turnover of Cu(I) contributes to copper resistance in yeast. The structure of Fet3p has been used to identify possible amino acid residues responsible for this protein's reactivity with Cu(I), and structure-function analyses have confirmed this assignment. Fet3p Met(345) is required for the enzyme's reactivity toward Cu(I). Although the Fet3pM345A mutant exhibits wild type spectral and electrochemical behavior, the kinetic constants for Cu(I) turnover and for single-turnover electron transfer from Cu(I) to the enzyme are significantly reduced. The specificity constant with Cu(I) as substrate is reduced by one-fifth, whereas the electron transfer rate from Cu(I) is reduced 50-fold. This mutation has little effect on the reactivity toward Fe(II), indicating that Met(345) contributes specifically to Fet3p reactivity with the cuprous ion. These kinetic defects render the Fet3pM345A unable to support wild type cellular copper resistance, suggesting that there is a finely tuned copper redox balance at the yeast plasma membrane.
The crystal structure of Atg3, an autophagy-related ubiquitin carrier protein (E2) enzyme that mediates Atg8 lipidation.	Atg3 is an E2-like enzyme that catalyzes the conjugation of Atg8 and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE). The Atg8-PE conjugate is essential for autophagy, which is the bulk degradation process of cytoplasmic components by the vacuolar/lysosomal system. We report here the crystal structure of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Atg3 at 2.5-A resolution. Atg3 has an alpha/beta-fold, and its core region is topologically similar to canonical E2 enzymes. Atg3 has two regions inserted in the core region, one of which consists of approximately 80 residues and has a random coil structure in solution and another with a long alpha-helical structure that protrudes from the core region as far as 30 A. In vivo and in vitro analyses suggested that the former region is responsible for binding Atg7, an E1-like enzyme, and that the latter is responsible for binding Atg8. A sulfate ion was bound near the catalytic cysteine of Atg3, suggesting a possible binding site for the phosphate moiety of PE. The structure of Atg3 provides a molecular basis for understanding the unique lipidation reaction that Atg3 carries out.
In vitro analysis of SpUre2p, a prion-related protein, exemplifies the relationship between amyloid and prion.	The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae contains in its proteome at least three prion proteins. These proteins (Ure2p, Sup35p, and Rnq1p) share a set of remarkable properties. In vivo, they form aggregates that self-perpetuate their aggregation. This aggregation is controlled by Hsp104, which plays a major role in the growth and severing of these prions. In vitro, these prion proteins form amyloid fibrils spontaneously. The introduction of such fibrils made from Ure2p or Sup35p into yeast cells leads to the prion phenotypes [URE3] and [PSI], respectively. Previous studies on evolutionary biology of yeast prions have clearly established that [URE3] is not well conserved in the hemiascomycetous yeasts and particularly in S. paradoxus. Here we demonstrated that the S. paradoxus Ure2p is able to form infectious amyloid. These fibrils are more resistant than S. cerevisiae Ure2p fibrils to shear force. The observation, in vivo, of a distinct aggregation pattern for GFP fusions confirms the higher propensity of SpUre2p to form fibrillar structures. Our in vitro and in vivo analysis of aggregation propensity of the S. paradoxus Ure2p provides an explanation for its loss of infective properties and suggests that this protein belongs to the non-prion amyloid world.
Diploids heterozygous for a vma13Delta mutation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae highlight the importance of V-ATPase subunit balance in supporting vacuolar acidification and silencing cytosolic V1-ATPase activity.	The V-ATPase H subunit (encoded by the VMA13 gene) activates ATP-driven proton pumping in intact V-ATPase complexes and inhibits MgATPase activity in cytosolic V1 sectors (Parra, K. J., Keenan, K. L., and Kane, P. M. (2000) J. Biol. Chem. 275, 21761-21767). Yeast diploids heterozygous for a vma13Delta mutation show the pH- and calcium-dependent conditional lethality characteristic of mutants lacking V-ATPase activity, although they still contain one wild-type copy of VMA13. Vacuolar vesicles from this strain have approximately 50% of the ATPase activity of those from a wild-type diploid but do not support formation of a proton gradient. Compound heterozygotes with a second heterozygous deletion in another V1 subunit gene exhibit improved growth, vacuolar acidification, and ATP-driven proton transport in vacuolar vesicles. In contrast, compound heterozygotes with a second deletion in a Vo subunit grow even more poorly than the vma13Delta heterozygote, have very little vacuolar acidification, and have very low levels of V-ATPase subunits in isolated vacuoles. In addition, cytosolic V1 sectors from this strain and from the strain containing only the heterozygous vma13Delta mutation have elevated MgATPase activity. The results suggest that balancing levels of subunit H with those of other V-ATPase subunits is critical, both for allowing organelle acidification and for preventing unproductive hydrolysis of cytosolic ATP.
Recognition of age-damaged (R,S)-adenosyl-L-methionine by two methyltransferases in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The biological methyl donor S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) can exist in two diastereoisomeric states with respect to its sulfonium ion. The S configuration, (S,S)-AdoMet, is the only form that is produced enzymatically as well as the only form used in almost all biological methylation reactions. Under physiological conditions, however, the sulfonium ion can spontaneously racemize to the R form, producing (R,S)-AdoMet. As of yet, (R,S)-AdoMet has no known physiological function and may inhibit cellular reactions. In this study, we found two Saccharomyces cerevisiae enzymes that are capable of recognizing (R,S)-AdoMet and using it to methylate homocysteine to form methionine. These enzymes are the products of the SAM4 and MHT1 genes, identified previously as homocysteine methyltransferases dependent upon AdoMet and S-methylmethionine, respectively. We found here that Sam4 recognizes both (S,S)- and (R,S)-AdoMet, but that its activity is much higher with the R,S form. Mht1 reacts with only the R,S form of AdoMet, whereas no activity is seen with the S,S form. R,S-Specific homocysteine methyltransferase activity is also shown here to occur in extracts of Arabidopsis thaliana, Drosophila melanogaster, and Caenorhabditis elegans, but has not been detected in several tissue extracts of Mus musculus. Such activity may function to prevent the accumulation of (R,S)-AdoMet in these organisms.
Quantification of protein thiols and dithiols in the picomolar range using sodium borohydride and 4,4'-dithiodipyridine.	Experimental determination of the number of thiols in a protein requires methodology that combines high sensitivity and reproducibility with low intrinsic thiol oxidation disposition. In detection of disulfide bonds, it is also necessary to efficiently reduce disulfides and to quantify the liberated thiols. Ellman's reagent (5,5'-dithiobis-[2-nitrobenzoic acid], DTNB) is the most widely used reagent for quantification of protein thiols, whereas dithiothreitol (DTT) is commonly used for disulfide reduction. DTNB suffers from a relatively low sensitivity, whereas DTT reduction is inconvenient because the reagent must be removed before thiol quantification. Furthermore, both reagents require a reaction pH > 7.0 where oxidation by ambient molecular oxygen is significant. Here we describe a quick and highly sensitive assay for protein thiol and dithiol quantification using the reducing agent sodium borohydride and the thiol reagent 4,4'-dithiodipyridine (4-DPS). Because borohydride is efficiently destroyed by the addition of acid, the complete reduction and quantification can be performed conveniently in one tube without desalting steps. Furthermore, the use of reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography for the thiol quantification by 4-DPS reduces the detection limit to the picomolar range (equivalent to 1 microg of a 50-kDa protein containing 1 thiol) while at the same time maintaining low pH throughout the procedure.
Ssh4, Rcr2 and Rcr1 affect plasma membrane transporter activity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Nutrient uptake in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a highly regulated process. Cells adjust levels of nutrient transporters within the plasma membrane at multiple stages of the secretory and endosomal pathways. In the absence of the ER-membrane-localized chaperone Shr3, amino acid permeases (AAP) inefficiently fold and are largely retained in the ER. Consequently, shr3 null mutants exhibit greatly reduced rates of amino acid uptake due to lower levels of AAPs in their plasma membranes. To further our understanding of mechanisms affecting AAP localization, we identified SSH4 and RCR2 as high-copy suppressors of shr3 null mutations. The overexpression of SSH4, RCR2, or the RCR2 homolog RCR1 increases steady-state AAP levels, whereas the genetic inactivation of these genes reduces steady-state AAP levels. Additionally, the overexpression of any of these suppressor genes exerts a positive effect on phosphate and uracil uptake systems. Ssh4 and Rcr2 primarily localize to structures associated with the vacuole; however, Rcr2 also localizes to endosome-like vesicles. Our findings are consistent with a model in which Ssh4, Rcr2, and presumably Rcr1, function within the endosome-vacuole trafficking pathway, where they affect events that determine whether plasma membrane proteins are degraded or routed to the plasma membrane.
Development and validation of a spectral library searching method for peptide identification from MS/MS.	A notable inefficiency of shotgun proteomics experiments is the repeated rediscovery of the same identifiable peptides by sequence database searching methods, which often are time-consuming and error-prone. A more precise and efficient method, in which previously observed and identified peptide MS/MS spectra are catalogued and condensed into searchable spectral libraries to allow new identifications by spectral matching, is seen as a promising alternative. To that end, an open-source, functionally complete, high-throughput and readily extensible MS/MS spectral searching tool, SpectraST, was developed. A high-quality spectral library was constructed by combining the high-confidence identifications of millions of spectra taken from various data repositories and searched using four sequence search engines. The resulting library consists of over 30,000 spectra for Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Using this library, SpectraST vastly outperforms the sequence search engine SEQUEST in terms of speed and the ability to discriminate good and bad hits. A unique advantage of SpectraST is its full integration into the popular Trans Proteomic Pipeline suite of software, which facilitates user adoption and provides important functionalities such as peptide and protein probability assignment, quantification, and data visualization. This method of spectral library searching is especially suited for targeted proteomics applications, offering superior performance to traditional sequence searching.
Site-directed mutagenesis of two aromatic residues lining the active site pocket of the yeast Ltp1.	We mutated Trp(134) and Tyr(135) of the yeast LMW-PTP to explore their catalytic roles, demonstrating that the mutations of Trp(134) to Tyr or Ala, and Tyr(135) to Ala, all interfere with the formation of the phosphorylenzyme intermediate, a phenomenon that can be seen by the decrease in the kinetic constant of the chemical step (k(3)). Furthermore, we noted that the Trp(134) to Ala mutation causes a dramatic drop in k(cat)/K(m) and a slight enhancement of the dissociation constant K(s). The conservative mutant W134Y shows a k(cat)/K(m) very close to that of wild type, probably compensating the two-fold decrease of k(3) with an increase in substrate affinity. The Y135A mutation enhances the substrate affinity, but reduces the enzyme phosphorylation rate. The replacement of Trp(134) with alanine interferes with the partition between phosphorylenzyme hydrolysis and phosphotransfer from the phosphorylenzyme to glycerol and abolish the enzyme activation by adenine. Finally, we found that mutation of Trp(134) to Ala causes a dramatic change in the pH-rate profile that becomes similar to that of the D132A mutant, suggesting that an aromatic residue in position 134 is necessary to assist the proper positioning of the proton donor in the transition state of the chemical step.
A natively unfolded yeast prion monomer adopts an ensemble of collapsed and rapidly fluctuating structures.	The yeast prion protein Sup35 is a translation termination factor, whose activity is modulated by sequestration into a self-perpetuating amyloid. The prion-determining domain, NM, consists of two distinct regions: an amyloidogenic N terminus domain (N) and a charged solubilizing middle region (M). To gain insight into prion conversion, we used single-molecule fluorescence resonance energy transfer (SM-FRET) and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy to investigate the structure and dynamics of monomeric NM. Low protein concentrations in these experiments prevented the formation of obligate on-pathway oligomers, allowing us to study early folding intermediates in isolation from higher-order species. SM-FRET experiments on a dual-labeled amyloid core variant (N21C/S121C, retaining wild-type prion behavior) indicated that the N region of NM adopts a collapsed form similar to "burst-phase" intermediates formed during the folding of many globular proteins, even though it lacks a typical hydrophobic core. The mean distance between residues 21 and 121 was approximately equal to 43 A. This increased with denaturant in a noncooperative fashion to approximately equal to 63 A, suggesting a multitude of interconverting species rather than a small number of discrete monomeric conformers. Fluorescence correlation spectroscopy analysis of singly labeled NM revealed fast conformational fluctuations on the 20- to 300-ns time scale. Quenching from proximal and distal tyrosines resulted in distinct fast and slower fluctuations. Our results indicate that native monomeric NM is composed of an ensemble of structures, having a collapsed and rapidly fluctuating N region juxtaposed with a more extended M region. The stability of such ensembles is likely to play a key role in prion conversion.
The yeast Pdr5p multidrug transporter: how does it recognize so many substrates?	Multidrug transporters are of considerable importance because they present problems in the treatment of infectious disease and cancer. A central issue is the ability of efflux pumps to recognize an astounding array of structurally diverse compounds. The yeast Pdr5p efflux pump, which is a member of the ATP-binding cassette superfamily, has at least 3 substrate-binding sites, each of which appears to use different chemical properties to transport compounds. All Pdr5p substrates, however, have a size requirement that is independent of hydrophobicity.
INO80 subfamily of chromatin remodeling complexes.	ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complexes contain ATPases of the Swi/Snf superfamily and alter DNA accessibility of chromatin in an ATP-dependent manner. Recently characterized INO80 and SWR1 complexes belong to a subfamily of these chromatin remodelers and are characterized by a split ATPase domain in the core ATPase subunit and the presence of Rvb proteins. INO80 and SWR1 complexes are evolutionarily conserved from yeast to human and have been implicated in transcription regulation, as well as DNA repair. The individual components, assembly patterns, and molecular mechanisms of the INO80 class of chromatin remodeling complexes are discussed in this review.
Reorganization of immobilized horse and yeast cytochrome c induced by pH changes or nitric oxide binding.	The redox properties of horse and yeast cytochrome c electrostatically immobilized on carboxylic acid-terminated self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) have been determined over a broad pH range (pH 3.5-8) in the absence and presence of nitric oxide. Below pH 6, both proteins exhibit comparable midpoint potentials, coverages, and electron-transfer rate constants, which suggests that they are adsorbed on the SAM in a similar fashion. Above pH 6, a sharp decrease in electron-transfer rate constants is observed for immobilized yeast cytochrome c, which is indicative of a change in the electron tunneling pathway between the heme and the electrode and hence suggests that the protein reorients on the surface. Such a decrease is not observed for horse cytochrome c and therefore must be related to the specific charge distribution on yeast cytochrome c. Apart from the charge distribution on the protein, the reorientation also seems to be related to the charge on the SAM surface. The presence of nitric oxide causes a decrease in electron-transfer rate constants of both yeast and horse cytochrome c at low pH. This is probably due to the fact that nitric oxide induces a conformational change of the protein and also changes the reorganization energy for electron transfer.
Structure and interactions of the first three RNA recognition motifs of splicing factor prp24.	The essential Saccharomyces cerevisiae pre-messenger RNA splicing protein 24 (Prp24) has four RNA recognition motifs (RRMs) and facilitates U6 RNA base-pairing with U4 RNA during spliceosome assembly. Prp24 is a component of the free U6 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (snRNP) but not the U4/U6 bi-snRNP, and so is thought to be displaced from U6 by U4/U6 base-pairing. The interaction partners of each of the four RRMs of Prp24 and how these interactions direct U4/U6 pairing are not known. Here we report the crystal structure of the first three RRMs and the solution structure of the first two RRMs of Prp24. Strikingly, RRM 2 forms extensive inter-domain contacts with RRMs 1 and 3. These contacts occupy much of the canonical RNA-binding faces (beta-sheets) of RRMs 1 and 2, but leave the beta-sheet of RRM 3 exposed. Previously identified substitutions in Prp24 that suppress mutations in U4 and U6 spliceosomal RNAs cluster primarily in the beta-sheet of RRM 3, but also in a conserved loop of RRM 2. RNA binding assays and chemical shift mapping indicate that a large basic patch evident on the surface of RRMs 1 and 2 is part of a high affinity U6 RNA binding site. Our results suggest that Prp24 binds free U6 RNA primarily with RRMs 1 and 2, which may remodel the U6 secondary structure. The beta-sheet of RRM 3 then influences U4/U6 pairing through interaction with an unidentified ligand.
Histone H3-K56 acetylation is catalyzed by histone chaperone-dependent complexes.	Acetylation of histone H3 on lysine 56 occurs during mitotic and meiotic S phase in fungal species. This acetylation blocks a direct electrostatic interaction between histone H3 and nucleosomal DNA, and the absence of this modification is associated with extreme sensitivity to genotoxic agents. We show here that H3-K56 acetylation is catalyzed when Rtt109, a protein that lacks significant homology to known acetyltransferases, forms an active complex with either of two histone binding proteins, Asf1 or Vps75. Rtt109 binds to both these cofactors, but not to histones alone, forming enzyme complexes with kinetic parameters similar to those of known histone acetyltransferase (HAT) enzymes. Therefore, H3-K56 acetylation is catalyzed by a previously unknown mechanism that requires a complex of two proteins: Rtt109 and a histone chaperone. Additionally, these complexes are functionally distinct, with the Rtt109/Asf1 complex, but not the Rtt109/Vps75 complex, being critical for resistance to genotoxic agents.
Evolution of budding yeast prion-determinant sequences across diverse fungi.	Prions are transmissible self-replicating alternative states of proteins. Four prions ([PSI+], [URE3], [RNQ+] and [NU+]) can be inherited cytoplasmically in Saccharomyces cerevisiae laboratory strains. In the case of [PSI+], there is increasing evidence that prion formation may engender mechanisms to uncover hidden genetic variation. Here, we have analysed the evolution of the prion-determinant (PD) domains across 21 fungi, focusing on compositional biases, repeats and substitution rates. We find evidence for constraint on all four PD domains, but each domain has its own evolutionary dynamics. For [PSI+], the Q/N bias is maintained in fungal clades that diverged one billion years ago, with purifying selection observed within the Saccharomyces species. The degree of Q/N bias is correlated with the degree of local homology to prion-associated repeats, which occur rarely in other proteins (<1% of sequences for the proteomes studied). The evolutionary conservation of Q/N bias in Sup35p is unusual, with only eight other S. cerevisiae proteins showing similar, phylogenetically deep patterns of bias conservation. The [URE3] PD domain is unique to Hemiascomycota; part of the PD domain shows purifying selection, whereas another part engenders bias changes between clades. Also, like for Sup35p, the [RNQ+] and [NU+] PD domains show purifying selection in Saccharomyces species. Additionally, in each proteome, we observe on average several hundred yeast-prion-like domains, with fewest in fission yeast. Our findings on yeast prion evolution provide further support for the functional significance of these molecules.
Hsp40 interacts directly with the native state of the yeast prion protein Ure2 and inhibits formation of amyloid-like fibrils.	Ure2 is the protein determinant of the [URE3] prion phenotype in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and consists of a flexible N-terminal prion-determining domain and a globular C-terminal glutathione transferase-like domain. Overexpression of the type I Hsp40 member Ydj1 in yeast cells has been found to result in the loss of [URE3]. However, the mechanism of prion curing by Ydj1 remains unclear. Here we tested the effect of overexpression of Hsp40 members Ydj1, Sis1, and Apj1 and also Hsp70 co-chaperones Cpr7, Cns1, Sti1, and Fes1 in vivo and found that only Ydj1 showed a strong curing effect on [URE3]. We also investigated the interaction of Ydj1 with Ure2 in vitro. We found that Ydj1 was able to suppress formation of amyloid-like fibrils of Ure2 by delaying the process of fibril formation, as monitored by thioflavin T binding and atomic force microscopy imaging. Controls using bovine serum albumin, Sis1, or the human Hsp40 homologues Hdj1 or Hdj2 showed no significant inhibitory effect. Ydj1 was only effective when added during the lag phase of fibril formation, suggesting that it interacts with Ure2 at an early stage in fibril formation and delays the nucleation process. Using surface plasmon resonance and size exclusion chromatography, we demonstrated a direct interaction between Ydj1 and both wild type and N-terminally truncated Ure2. In contrast, Hdj2, which did not suppress fibril formation, did not show this interaction. The results suggest that Ydj1 inhibits Ure2 fibril formation by binding to the native state of Ure2, thus delaying the onset of oligomerization.
Local polarity and hydrogen bonding inside the Sec14p phospholipid-binding cavity: high-field multi-frequency electron paramagnetic resonance studies.	Sec14p promotes the energy-independent transfer of either phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) or phosphatidylcholine (PtdCho) between lipid bilayers in vitro and represents the major PtdIns/PtdCho transfer protein in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Herein, we employ multi-frequency high-field electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) to analyze the electrostatic and hydrogen-bonding microenvironments for series of doxyl-labeled PtdCho molecules bound by Sec14p in a soluble protein-PtdCho complex. A structurally similar compound, 5-doxyl stearic acid dissolved in a series of solvents, was used for experimental calibration. The experiments yielded two-component rigid limit 130- and 220-GHz EPR spectra with excellent resolution in the gx region. Those components were assigned to hydrogen-bonded and nonhydrogen-bonded nitroxide species. Partially resolved 130-GHz EPR spectra from n-doxyl-PtdCho bound to Sec14p were analyzed using this two-component model and allowed quantification of two parameters. First, the fraction of hydrogen-bonded nitroxide species for each n-doxyl-PtdCho was calculated. Second, the proticity profile along the phospholipid-binding cavity of Sec14p was characterized. The data suggest the polarity gradient inside the Sec14p cavity is a significant contributor to the driving molecular forces for extracting a phospholipid from the bilayer. Finally, the enhanced g-factor resolution of EPR at 130 and 220 GHz provides researchers with a spectroscopic tool to deconvolute two major contributions to the x-component of the nitroxide g-matrix: hydrogen-bond formation and local electrostatic effects.
Mechanisms of checkpoint kinase Rad53 inactivation after a double-strand break in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, double-strand breaks (DSBs) activate DNA checkpoint pathways that trigger several responses including a strong G(2)/M arrest. We have previously provided evidence that the phosphatases Ptc2 and Ptc3 of the protein phosphatase 2C type are required for DNA checkpoint inactivation after a DSB and probably dephosphorylate the checkpoint kinase Rad53. In this article we have investigated further the interactions between Ptc2 and Rad53. We showed that forkhead-associated domain 1 (FHA1) of Rad53 interacts with a specific threonine of Ptc2, T376, located outside its catalytic domain in a TXXD motif which constitutes an optimal FHA1 binding sequence in vitro. Mutating T376 abolishes Ptc2 interaction with the Rad53 FHA1 domain and results in adaptation and recovery defects following a DSB. We found that Ckb1 and Ckb2, the regulatory subunits of the protein kinase CK2, are necessary for the in vivo interaction between Ptc2 and the Rad53 FHA1 domain, that Ckb1 binds Ptc2 in vitro and that ckb1Delta and ckb2Delta mutants are defective in adaptation and recovery after a DSB. Our data thus strongly suggest that CK2 is the kinase responsible for the in vivo phosphorylation of Ptc2 T376.
Yeast ribosomal/cytochrome c SET domain methyltransferase subfamily: identification of Rpl23ab methylation sites and recognition motifs.	Ribosomal protein L23ab is specifically dimethylated at two distinct sites by the SET domain-containing enzyme Rkm1 in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Using liquid column chromatography with electrospray-ionization mass spectrometry, we determined that Rpl23ab purified from the Deltarkm1 deletion strain demonstrated a loss in mass of approximately 56 Da when compared with Rpl23ab purified from the wild type strain. When Rpl23ab was proteolyzed, using proteinase ArgC or CNBr, and the peptides derived were analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry, no sites of methylation were found in Rpl23ab purified from the Deltarkm1 deletion strain, whereas two sites of dimethylation were observed in the wild type strain at lysine residues 105 and 109. We show that both Rpl23a and Rpl23b are expressed and methylated in vivo in yeast. Using polysomal fractionation, we demonstrate that the deletion of RKM1 has no effect on ribosomal complex formation. Comparison of SET domain methyltransferase substrates in yeast reveal sequence similarities around the lysine methylation sites and suggest that an (Asn/Pro)-Pro-Lys consensus sequence may be a target for methylation by subfamily 2 SET domain methyltransferases. Finally, we show the presence of Rkm1 homologs in fungi, plants, and mammals including humans.
Two alternatively spliced transcripts generated from OsMUS81, a rice homolog of yeast MUS81, are up-regulated by DNA-damaging treatments.	OsMUS81, a rice homolog of the yeast MUS81 endonuclease gene, produced two alternative transcripts, OsMUS81alpha and OsMUS81beta. OsMus81alpha contained a Helix-hairpin-Helix (HhH) motif at the N- and C-termini, and a conserved XPF-like motif in the center, while the OsMus81beta isoform lacked the second HhH motif by alternative splicing of a cryptic intron generating a truncated protein. The two transcripts were induced after DNA-damaging treatments such as high intensity light, UV-C and gamma-radiation. The yeast two-hybrid assay detected a strong interaction between OsMus81 and OsRad54 recombinational repair proteins. These findings suggest that OsMus81 functions in maintaining genome integrity through homologous recombination.
Crystal structure of the left-handed archaeal RadA helical filament: identification of a functional motif for controlling quaternary structures and enzymatic functions of RecA family proteins.	The RecA family of proteins mediates homologous recombination, an evolutionarily conserved pathway that maintains genomic stability by protecting against DNA double strand breaks. RecA proteins are thought to facilitate DNA strand exchange reactions as closed-rings or as right-handed helical filaments. Here, we report the crystal structure of a left-handed Sulfolobus solfataricus RadA helical filament. Each protomer in this left-handed filament is linked to its neighbour via interactions of a beta-strand polymerization motif with the neighbouring ATPase domain. Immediately following the polymerization motif, we identified an evolutionarily conserved hinge region (a subunit rotation motif) in which a 360 degrees clockwise axial rotation accompanies stepwise structural transitions from a closed ring to the AMP-PNP right-handed filament, then to an overwound right-handed filament and finally to the left-handed filament. Additional structural and functional analyses of wild-type and mutant proteins confirmed that the subunit rotation motif is crucial for enzymatic functions of RecA family proteins. These observations support the hypothesis that RecA family protein filaments may function as rotary motors.
Direct binding to Rsp5p regulates ubiquitination-independent vacuolar transport of Sna3p.	The sorting of integral membrane proteins such as carboxypeptidase S (Cps1p) into the luminal vesicles of multivesicular bodies (MVBs) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae requires ubiquitination of their cytosolic domains by the ubiquitin ligases Rsp5p and/or Tul1p. An exception is Sna3p, which does not require ubiquitination for entry into MVBs. The mechanism underlying this ubiquitination-independent MVB sorting pathway has not yet been characterized. Here, we show that Sna3p sorting into the MVB pathway depends on a direct interaction between a PPAY motif within its C-terminal cytosolic tail and the WW domains of Rsp5p. Disruption of this interaction inhibits vacuolar targeting of Sna3p and causes its accumulation in a compartment that overlaps only partially with MVBs. Surprisingly, Sna3p does require a functional ubiquitin-ligase HECT domain within Rsp5p; however, the dependence of Sna3p on HECT domain activity is distinct from that of Cps1p. Last, we show that Sna3p requires neither Tul1p nor the transmembrane adaptor protein Bsd2p for its MVB sorting. Our data demonstrate that Sna3p follows a novel ubiquitination-independent, but Rsp5p-mediated, sorting pathway to the vacuole.
Function of a conserved checkpoint recruitment domain in ATRIP proteins.	The ATR (ATM and Rad3-related) kinase is essential to maintain genomic integrity. ATR is recruited to DNA lesions in part through its association with ATR-interacting protein (ATRIP), which in turn interacts with the single-stranded DNA binding protein RPA (replication protein A). In this study, a conserved checkpoint protein recruitment domain (CRD) in ATRIP orthologs was identified by biochemical mapping of the RPA binding site in combination with nuclear magnetic resonance, mutagenesis, and computational modeling. Mutations in the CRD of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae ATRIP ortholog Ddc2 disrupt the Ddc2-RPA interaction, prevent proper localization of Ddc2 to DNA breaks, sensitize yeast to DNA-damaging agents, and partially compromise checkpoint signaling. These data demonstrate that the CRD is critical for localization and optimal DNA damage responses. However, the stimulation of ATR kinase activity by binding of topoisomerase binding protein 1 (TopBP1) to ATRIP-ATR can occur independently of the interaction of ATRIP with RPA. Our results support the idea of a multistep model for ATR activation that requires separable localization and activation functions of ATRIP.
Conformational dynamics of the major yeast phosphatidylinositol transfer protein sec14p: insight into the mechanisms of phospholipid exchange and diseases of sec14p-like protein deficiencies.	Molecular dynamics simulations coupled with functional analyses of the major yeast phosphatidylinositol/phosphatidylcholine transfer protein Sec14p identify structural elements involved in regulating the ability of Sec14p to execute phospholipid exchange. The molecular dynamics simulations suggest large rigid body motions within the Sec14p molecule accompany closing and opening of an A(10)/T(4)/A(11) helical gate, and that "state-of-closure" of this helical gate determines access to the Sec14p phospholipid binding cavity. The data also project that conformational dynamics of the helical gate are controlled by a hinge unit (residues F(212), Y(213), K(239), I(240), and I(242)) that links to the N- and C-terminal ends of the helical gate, and by a novel gating module (composed of the B(1)LB(2) and A(12)LT(5) substructures) through which conformational information is transduced to the hinge. The (114)TDKDGR(119) motif of B(1)LB(2) plays an important role in that transduction process. These simulations offer new mechanistic possibilities for an important half-reaction of the Sec14p phospholipid exchange cycle that occurs on membrane surfaces after Sec14p has ejected bound ligand, and is reloading with another phospholipid molecule. These conformational transitions further suggest structural rationales for known disease missense mutations that functionally compromise mammalian members of the Sec14-protein superfamily.
Oxa1 directly interacts with Atp9 and mediates its assembly into the mitochondrial F1Fo-ATP synthase complex.	The yeast Oxa1 protein is involved in the biogenesis of the mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) machinery. The involvement of Oxa1 in the assembly of the cytochrome oxidase (COX) complex, where it facilitates the cotranslational membrane insertion of mitochondrially encoded COX subunits, is well documented. In this study we have addressed the role of Oxa1, and its sequence-related protein Cox18/Oxa2, in the biogenesis of the F(1)F(o)-ATP synthase complex. We demonstrate that Oxa1, but not Cox18/Oxa2, directly supports the assembly of the membrane embedded F(o)-sector of the ATP synthase. Oxa1 was found to physically interact with newly synthesized mitochondrially encoded Atp9 protein in a posttranslational manner and in a manner that is not dependent on the C-terminal, matrix-localized region of Oxa1. The stable manner of the Atp9-Oxa1 interaction is in contrast to the cotranslational and transient interaction previously observed for the mitochondrially encoded COX subunits with Oxa1. In the absence of Oxa1, Atp9 was observed to assemble into an oligomeric complex containing F(1)-subunits, but its further assembly with subunit 6 (Atp6) of the F(o)-sector was perturbed. We propose that by directly interacting with newly synthesized Atp9 in a posttranslational manner, Oxa1 is required to maintain the assembly competence of the Atp9-F(1)-subcomplex for its association with Atp6.
GGA2- and ubiquitin-dependent trafficking of Arn1, the ferrichrome transporter of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The intracellular trafficking of Arn1, a ferrichrome transporter in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is controlled in part by the binding of ferrichrome to the transporter. In the absence of ferrichrome, Arn1 is sorted directly from the Golgi to endosomes. Ferrichrome binding triggers the redistribution of Arn1 to the plasma membrane, whereas ferrichrome transport is associated with the cycling of Arn1 between the plasma membrane and endosomes. Here, we report that the clathrin adaptor Gga2 and ubiquitination by the Rsp5 ubiquitin ligase are required for trafficking of Arn1. Gga2 was required for Golgi-to-endosomal trafficking of Arn1, which was sorted from endosomes to the vacuole for degradation. Trafficking into the vacuolar lumen was dependent on ubiquitination by Rsp5, but ubiquitination was not required for plasma membrane accumulation of Arn1 in the presence of ferrichrome. Retrograde trafficking via the retromer complex or Snx4 was also not required for plasma membrane accumulation. High concentrations of ferrichrome led to higher levels of ubiquitination of Arn1, but they did not induce degradation. Without this ubiquitination, Arn1 remained on the plasma membrane, where it was active for transport. Arn1 was preferentially modified with polyubiquitin chains on a cluster of lysine residues at the amino terminus of the transporter.
Structural insights into the exchange domain of sec2p: expression, purification, crystallization, and preliminary x-ray diffraction data analysis.	Sec2p is an essential yeast gene and is part of the cell polarization process that leads to budding. The N-terminal domain of sec2p (Sec2pN)--the guanine-nucleotide exchange factor for sec4p--has been expressed in Escherichia coli, purified, and crystallized. Crystals belong to the space group P2(1) with unit cell dimensions 178.1 x 98.4 x 180.0 A, beta = 91.7( degrees ), and diffract synchrotron-generated X-rays to better than 3.6 A resolution. Pseudo-precession plots reveal a Laue symmetry of 2/m, corresponding to the aforementioned space group, and unusual weak diffraction in the approximately 5-7 A resolution range. The Matthews number calculations for a typical crystal density suggest a range of 28 to 64 molecules per asymmetric unit. Self-rotation and native Patterson calculations demonstrate a pure helical array of protein subunits. Based on the X-ray diffraction data analysis and amino-acid sequence alignments, the paper presents a hypothetical model of the exchange domain of sec2p as a pair of coiled-coil helices that binds to sec4p and facilitates nucleotide disassociation.
The MEK kinases MEKK4/Ssk2p facilitate complexity in the stress signaling responses of diverse systems.	The mammalian JNK/p38 MAP kinase kinase kinase MEKK4 and the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ssk2p are highly homologous. MEKK4 can replace all of the known functions of Ssk2p in yeast, including functioning in the high osmolarity glycerol (HOG) MAPK pathway and the recently described actin recovery pathway. MEKK4 and Ssk2p share a number of conserved domains and appear to be activated by a similar mechanism. Binding of an activating protein to the N-terminal region alleviates auto-inhibition and causes the kinase to auto-phosphorylate, resulting in activation. In this review we will examine the role of the MAP kinase kinase kinase isoform Ssk2p/MEKK4 in the adaptation of both yeast and mammalian systems to specific external stimuli. Recent work has provided a wealth of information about the activation, regulation, and functions of these MEKK kinases to extra-cellular signals. We will also highlight evidence supporting a role for MEKK4 in mediating actin recovery following osmotic shock in mammalian cells.
Evolution of Ime2 phosphorylation sites on Cdk1 substrates provides a mechanism to limit the effects of the phosphatase Cdc14 in meiosis.	Progression through meiosis in yeast is governed by the cyclin-dependent kinase Cdk1, in concert with a related kinase called Ime2. It remains unclear how these kinases collaborate to meet the unique demands of meiotic progression. We demonstrate that Ime2 and Cdk1 phosphorylate an overlapping substrate set and that the two kinases overlap functionally as inhibitors of the ubiquitin ligase APC(Cdh1) and replication origin licensing. Surprisingly, Ime2 phosphorylates Cdk1 substrates at distinct phosphorylation sites that are highly resistant to dephosphorylation by the phosphatase Cdc14. We propose that Ime2-dependent phosphorylation of a subset of cell-cycle proteins limits the effects of Cdc14 in meiosis.
The Chd family of chromatin remodelers.	Chromatin remodeling enzymes contribute to the dynamic changes that occur in chromatin structure during cellular processes such as transcription, recombination, repair, and replication. Members of the chromodomain helicase DNA-binding (Chd) family of enzymes belong to the SNF2 superfamily of ATP-dependent chromatin remodelers. The Chd proteins are distinguished by the presence of two N-terminal chromodomains that function as interaction surfaces for a variety of chromatin components. Genetic, biochemical, and structural studies demonstrate that Chd proteins are important regulators of transcription and play critical roles during developmental processes. Numerous Chd proteins are also implicated in human disease.
Relative quantification of stable isotope labeled peptides using a linear ion trap-Orbitrap hybrid mass spectrometer.	The quantitative analysis of complex biological samples has emerged as a key research area in the field of proteomics. Although quantitative proteomic experiments remain challenging, these strategies have been greatly facilitated by the development of newer high-performance mass spectrometers. In this work, we have evaluated the use of the LTQ-Orbitrap, a hybrid mass spectrometer in which a linear ion trap is coupled to an Orbitrap mass analyzer, for quantitative analyses. By analyzing a range of yeast protein standards, we found that the high mass accuracy, high resolution, large ion capacity, and large dynamic range of the LTQ-Orbitrap led to as much as a 4-5-fold improvement in the number and quality of the peptide ratio measurements compared to similar analyses done on the LTQ. We also successfully quantified protein expression differences that occur in metabolically labeled rat synapses during brain development to further demonstrate the suitability of the LTQ-Orbitrap for the comparative analysis of complex tissue samples.
Channel mutations in Hsp104 hexamer distinctively affect thermotolerance and prion-specific propagation.	The yeast prion [PSI(+)] represents an aggregated state of the translation termination factor Sup35 resulting in the tendency of ribosomes to readthrough stop codons. In this study, we constructed an auxotrophic chromosomal marker, ura3-197 (nonsense allele), applicable to selection for loss of [PSI(+)] to [psi(-)]. Unlike [psi(-)] yeast strains, [PSI(+)] yeast strains exhibit nonsense suppression of the ura3-197 allele and are not viable in the presence of 5-fluoroorotic acid (5-FOA) that is converted to a toxic material by the readthrough product of Ura3. We selected 20 5-FOA-resistant, loss-of-[PSI(+)], mutants spontaneously or by transposon-mediated mutagenesis from ura3-197[PSI(+)] cells. All of the 20 [psi(-)] isolates were affected in Hsp104, a protein-remodelling factor. Although most of them were disabled in a normal Hsp104 function for thermotolerance, three single mutants, L462R, P557L and D704N, remained thermotolerant. Importantly, L462R and D704N also eliminate other yeast prions [URE3] and [PIN(+)], while P557L does not, suggesting that Hsp104 harbours a unique activity to prion propagation independent of its function in thermotolerance. The mutations that are specific to prion propagation are clustered around the lateral channel of the Hsp104 hexamer, suggesting a crucial and specific role of this channel for prion propagation.
Mechanism and biological role of profilin-Srv2/CAP interaction.	Profilin and cyclase-associated protein (CAP, known in yeast as Srv2) are ubiquitous and abundant actin monomer-binding proteins. Profilin catalyses the nucleotide exchange on actin monomers and promotes their addition to filament barbed ends. Srv2/CAP recycles newly depolymerized actin monomers from ADF/cofilin for subsequent rounds of polymerization. Srv2/CAP also harbors two proline-rich motifs and has been suggested to interact with profilin. However, the mechanism and biological role of the possible profilin-Srv2/CAP interaction has not been investigated. Here, we show that Saccharomyces cerevisiae Srv2 and profilin interact directly (K(D) approximately 1.3 microM) and demonstrate that a specific proline-rich motif in Srv2 mediates this interaction in vitro and in vivo. ADP-actin monomers and profilin do not interfere with each other's binding to Srv2, suggesting that these three proteins can form a ternary complex. Genetic and cell biological analyses on an Srv2 allele (srv2-201) defective in binding profilin reveals that a direct interaction with profilin is not essential for Srv2 cellular function. However, srv2-201 causes a moderate increase in cell size and partially suppresses the cell growth and actin organization defects of an actin binding mutant profilin (pfy1-4). Together these data suggest that Srv2 is an important physiological interaction partner of profilin.
Influence of the N-terminal domain and divalent cations on self-association and DNA binding by the Saccharomyces cerevisiae TATA binding protein.	The localization of a single tryptophan to the N-terminal domain and six tyrosines to the C-terminal domain of TBP allows intrinsic fluorescence to separately report on the structures and dynamics of the full-length TATA binding protein (TBP) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and its C-terminal DNA binding domain (TBPc) as a function of self-association and DNA binding. TBPc is more compact than the C-terminal domain within the full-length protein. Quenching of the intrinsic fluorescence by DNA and external dynamic quenchers shows that the observed tyrosine fluorescence is due to the four residues surrounding the "DNA binding saddle" of the C-terminal domain. TBP's N-terminal domain unfolds and changes its position relative to the C-terminal domain upon DNA binding. It partially shields the DNA binding saddle in octameric TBP, shifting upon dissociation to monomers to expose the saddle to DNA. Structure-energetic correlations were obtained by comparing the contribution that electrostatic interactions make to DNA binding by TBP and TBPc; DNA binding by TBPc is more hydrophobic than that by TBP, suggesting that the N-terminal domain either interacts with bound DNA directly or screens a part of the C-terminal domain, diminishing its electronegativity. The competition between divalent cations, K+, and DNA is not straightforward. Divalent cations strengthen binding of TBP to DNA and do so more strongly for TBPc. We suggest that divalent cations affect the structure of the bound DNA perhaps by stabilizing its distorted conformation in complexes with TBPc and TBP and that the N-terminal domain mimics the effects of divalent cations. These data support an autoinhibitory mechanism in which competition between the N-terminal domain and DNA for the saddle diminishes the DNA binding affinity of the full-length protein.
Interactions of pro- and eukaryotic DNA repair enzymes with oligodeoxyribonucleotides containing clustered lesions]	Interactions of oxoGuanine-DNA glycosylases from Escherichia coli (Fpg) and human (OGG1) and abasic site endonucleases from yeast (Apnl) and E. coli (Nfo) with oligodeoxyribonucleotides containing oxoGuanine (oxoG) and tetrahydrofuran (F, a stable analog of an abasic site) separated by various numbers of nucleotides have been studied. Inhibitor analysis has shown that the affinity of Fpg for single-stranded ligands does not depend on the relative positions of oxoG and F lesions. KM and kcat values have been determined for all double-stranded substrates and all enzymes under study. The effect of introducing the second lesion was strongly dependent on the relative positions of the lesions and the nature of the enzyme. The highest drop in the affinity (1.6-148-fold) and the reaction rate (4.8-58-fold) has been observed with Fpg and OGG1 for substrates containing F immediately 5' or 3' adjacent to oxoG. Introduction of the second lesion barely changed the KM values for Apnl and Nfo substrates. At the same time, the reaction rates were 5-10-fold lower for substrates containing two adjacent lesions. For all enzymes studied, increasing the distance between two lesions in duplex DNA reduced the effect of the lesion in KM and kcat values.
RNA as a flexible scaffold for proteins: yeast telomerase and beyond.	Yeast telomerase, the enzyme that adds a repeated DNA sequence to the ends of the chromosomes, consists of a 1157- nucleotide RNA (TLC1) plus several protein subunits: the telomerase reverse transcriptase Est2p, the regulatory subunit Est1p, the nonhomologous end-joining heterodimer Ku, and the seven Sm proteins involved in ribonucleoprotein (RNP) maturation. The RNA subunit provides the template for telomeric DNA synthesis. In addition, we have reported evidence that it serves as a flexible scaffold to tether the proteins into the complex. More generally, we consider the possibility that RNPs may be considered in three structural categories: (1) those that have specific structures determined in large part by the RNA, including RNase P, other ribozyme-protein complexes, and the ribosome; (2) those that have specific structures determined in large part by proteins, including many small nuclear RNPs (snRNPs) and small nucleolar RNPs (snoRNPs); and (3) flexible scaffolds, with no specific structure of the RNP as a whole, as exemplified by yeast telomerase. Other candidates for flexible scaffold structures are other telomerases, viral IRES (internal ribosome entry site) elements, tmRNA (transfer-messenger RNA), the SRP (signal recognition particle), and Xist and roX1 RNAs that alter chromatin structure to achieve dosage compensation.
Crystal structure of the yeast nicotinamidase Pnc1p.	The yeast nicotinamidase Pnc1p acts in transcriptional silencing by reducing levels of nicotinamide, an inhibitor of the histone deacetylase Sir2p. The Pnc1p structure was determined at 2.9A resolution using MAD and MIRAS phasing methods after inadvertent crystallization during the pursuit of the structure of histidine-tagged yeast isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH). Pnc1p displays a cluster of surface histidine residues likely responsible for its co-fractionation with IDH from Ni(2+)-coupled chromatography resins. Researchers expressing histidine-tagged proteins in yeast should be aware of the propensity of Pnc1p to crystallize, even when overwhelmed in concentration by the protein of interest. The protein assembles into extended helical arrays interwoven to form an unusually robust, yet porous superstructure. Comparison of the Pnc1p structure with those of three homologous bacterial proteins reveals a common core fold punctuated by amino acid insertions unique to each protein. These insertions mediate the self-interactions that define the distinct higher order oligomeric states attained by these molecules. Pnc1p also acts on pyrazinamide, a substrate analog converted by the nicotinamidase from Mycobacterium tuberculosis into a product toxic to that organism. However, we find no evidence for detrimental effects of the drug on yeast cell growth.
Kinesin Kar3 and Vik1 go head to head.	The yeast kinesin motor protein Kar3 forms a heterodimer with a nonmotor protein Vik1. A study in this issue by Allingham et al. (2007) reveals that Vik1 unexpectedly has a structure similar to a kinesin motor domain yet lacks a nucleotide-binding site and is thus catalytically inactive. However, this does not hinder movement of the heterodimer because other features of the remarkably divergent Vik1 motor domain are retained, including the ability to bind microtubules.
Vik1 modulates microtubule-Kar3 interactions through a motor domain that lacks an active site.	Conventional kinesin and class V and VI myosins coordinate the mechanochemical cycles of their motor domains for processive movement of cargo along microtubules or actin filaments. It is widely accepted that this coordination is achieved by allosteric communication or mechanical strain between the motor domains, which controls the nucleotide state and interaction with microtubules or actin. However, questions remain about the interplay between the strain and the nucleotide state. We present an analysis of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Kar3/Vik1, a heterodimeric C-terminal Kinesin-14 containing catalytic Kar3 and the nonmotor protein Vik1. The X-ray crystal structure of Vik1 exhibits a similar fold to the kinesin and myosin catalytic head, but lacks an ATP binding site. Vik1 binds more tightly to microtubules than Kar3 and facilitates cooperative microtubule decoration by Kar3/Vik1 heterodimers, and yet allows motility. These results demand communication between Vik1 and Kar3 via a mechanism that coordinates their interactions with microtubules.
Conserved interactions of the splicing factor Ntr1/Spp382 with proteins involved in DNA double-strand break repair and telomere metabolism.	The ligation of DNA double-strand breaks in the process of non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) is accomplished by a heterodimeric enzyme complex consisting of DNA ligase IV and an associated non-catalytic factor. This DNA ligase also accounts for the fatal joining of unprotected telomere ends. Hence, its activity must be tightly controlled. Here, we describe interactions of the DNA ligase IV-associated proteins Lif1p and XRCC4 of yeast and human with the putatively orthologous G-patch proteins Ntr1p/Spp382p and NTR1/TFIP11 that have recently been implicated in mRNA splicing. These conserved interactions occupy the DNA ligase IV-binding sites of Lif1p and XRCC4, thus preventing the formation of an active enzyme complex. Consistently, an excess of Ntr1p in yeast reduces NHEJ efficiency in a plasmid ligation assay as well as in a chromosomal double-strand break repair (DSBR) assay. Both yeast and human NTR1 also interact with PinX1, another G-patch protein that has dual functions in the regulation of telomerase activity and telomere stability, and in RNA processing. Like PinX1, NTR1 localizes to telomeres and associates with nucleoli in yeast and human cells, suggesting a function in localized control of DSBR.
Analysis of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae exosome architecture and of the RNA binding activity of Rrp40p.	The exosome is a complex of eleven subunits in yeast, involved in RNA processing and degradation. Despite the extensive in vivo functional studies of the exosome, little information is yet available on the structure of the complex and on the RNase and RNA binding activities of the individual subunits. The current model for the exosome structure predicts the formation of a heterohexameric RNase PH ring, bound on one side by RNA binding subunits, and on the opposite side by hydrolytic RNase subunits. Here, we report protein-protein interactions within the exosome, confirming the predictions of constituents of the RNase PH ring, and show some possible interaction interfaces between the other subunits. We also show evidence that Rrp40p can bind RNA in vitro, as predicted by sequence analysis.
Post-transcriptional control of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae proteome by 14-3-3 proteins.	14-3-3 proteins form a family of conserved eukaryotic proteins binding to over 200 different proteins involved in nearly all cellular processes. The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae has two genes encoding 14-3-3 proteins, BMH1 and BMH2. As 14-3-3 proteins are essential in most S. cerevisiae strains, we constructed a bmh mutant with suboptimal 14-3-3 protein activity. Here, we report the effect of these bmh mutations on the proteome as determined by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry. We identified 26 proteins of which the levels increased by more than 2.0-fold and 51 proteins of which the levels decreased by more than 2.0-fold in the bmh mutant compared with those of the wild-type strain. For only 9 of these proteins, a more than 2.0-fold alteration was found at the transcriptional level. The levels of many proteins involved in gluconeogenesis, including Fba1, Eno1, Eno2, Tpi1, Pck1, Mdh2, Tdh2, Tdh3, and Gpm1, increased in the mutant, whereas the levels of several proteins involved in amino acid biosynthesis and translation and heat shock proteins were lower. Our studies indicate that 14-3-3 proteins control the S. cerevisiae proteome at the post-transcriptional level, in agreement with the binding of 14-3-3 proteins to proteins involved in protein synthesis and degradation. In addition, our studies suggest a key role in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism by 14-3-3 proteins.
Preparative peptide isoelectric focusing as a tool for improving the identification of lysine-acetylated peptides from complex mixtures.	Protein sequence database searching of tandem mass spectrometry data is commonly employed to identify post-translational modifications (PTMs) to peptides in global proteomic studies. In these studies, the accurate identification of these modified peptides relies on strategies to ensure high-confidence results from sequence database searching in which differential mass shift parameters are employed to identify PTMs to specific amino acids. Using lysine acetylation as an example PTM, we have observed that the inclusion of differential modification information in sequence database searching dramatically increases the potential for false-positive sequence matches to modified peptides, making the confident identification of true sequence matches difficult. In a proof-of-principle study of whole cell yeast lysates, we demonstrate the combination of preparative isoelectric focusing using free-flow electrophoresis, and an adjusted peptide isoelectric point prediction algorithm, as an effective means to increase the confidence of lysine-acetylated peptide identification. These results demonstrate the potential utility of this general strategy for improving the identification of PTMs which cause a shift to the intrinsic isoelectric point of peptides.
Crystal structure, biochemical and genetic characterization of yeast and E. cuniculi TAF(II)5 N-terminal domain: implications for TFIID assembly.	General transcription factor TFIID plays an essential role in transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II at numerous promoters. However, understanding of the assembly and a full structural characterization of this large 15 subunit complex is lacking. TFIID subunit TAF(II)5 has been shown to be present twice in this complex and to be critical for the function and assembly of TFIID. Especially, the TAF(II)5 N-terminal domain is required for its incorporation within TFIID and immuno-labelling experiments carried out by electron microscopy at low resolution have suggested that this domain might homodimerize, possibly explaining the three-lobed architecture of TFIID. However, the resolution at which the electron microscopy (EM) analyses were conducted is not sufficient to determine whether homodimerization occurs or whether a more intricate assembly implying other subunits is required. Here we report the X-ray structures of the fully evolutionary conserved C-terminal sub-domain of the TAF(II)5 N terminus, from yeast and the mammalian parasite Encephalitozoon cuniculi. This sub-domain displays a novel fold with specific surfaces having conserved physico-chemical properties that can form protein-protein interactions. Although a crystallographic dimer implying one of these surfaces is present in one of the crystal forms, several biochemical analyses show that this sub-domain is monomeric in solution, even at various salt conditions and in presence of different divalent cations. Consequently, the N-terminal sub-domain of the TAF(II)5 N terminus, which is homologous to a dimerization motif but has not been fully conserved during evolution, was studied by analytical ultracentrifugation and yeast genetics. Our results show that this sub-domain dimerizes at very high concentration but is neither required for yeast viability, nor for incorporation of two TAF(II)5 molecules within TFIID and for the assembly of this complex. Altogether, although our results do not argue in favour of a homodimerization of the TAF(II)5 N-terminal domain, our structural analyses suggest a role for this domain in assembly of TFIID and its related complexes SAGA, STAGA, TFTC and PCAF.
Comparison of proteolytic susceptibility in phosphoglycerate kinases from yeast and E. coli: modulation of conformational ensembles without altering structure or stability.	Escherichia coli phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) is resistant to proteolytic cleavage while the yeast homolog from Saccharomyces cerevisiae is not. We have explored the biophysical basis of this surprising difference. The sequences of these homologs are 39% identical and 56% similar. Determination of the crystal structure for the E. coli protein and comparison to the previously solved yeast structure reveals that the two proteins have extremely similar tertiary structures, and their global stabilities determined by equilibrium denaturation are also very similar. The extrapolated unfolding rate of E. coli PGK is, however, 10(5) slower than that of the yeast homolog. This surprisingly large difference in unfolding rates appears to arise from a divergence in the extent of cooperativity between the two structural domains (the N and C-domains) that make up these kinases. This is supported by: (1) the C-domain of E. coli PGK cannot be expressed or fold independently of the N-domain, while both domains of the yeast protein fold in isolation into stable structures and (2) the energetics and kinetics of the proteolytically sensitive state of E. coli PGK match those for global unfolding. This suggests that proteolysis occurs from the globally unfolded state of E. coli PGK, while the characteristics defining the yeast homolog suggest that proteolysis occurs upon unfolding of only the C-domain, with the N-domain remaining folded and consequently resistant to cleavage.
C-terminal proteolysis of prenylated proteins in trypanosomatids and RNA interference of enzymes required for the post-translational processing pathway of farnesylated proteins.	The C-terminal "CaaX"-motif-containing proteins usually undergo three sequential post-translational processing steps: (1) attachment of a prenyl group to the cysteine residue; (2) proteolytic removal of the last three amino acids "aaX"; (3) methyl esterification of the exposed alpha-carboxyl group of the prenyl-cysteine residue. The Trypanosoma brucei and Leishmania major Ras converting enzyme 1 (RCE1) orthologs of 302 and 285 amino acids-proteins, respectively, have only 13-20% sequence identity to those from other species but contain the critical residues for the activity found in other orthologs. The Trypanosoma brucei a-factor converting enzyme 1 (AFC1) ortholog consists of 427 amino acids with 29-33% sequence identity to those of other species and contains the consensus HExxH zinc-binding motif. The trypanosomatid RCE1 and AFC1 orthologs contain predicted transmembrane regions like other species. Membranes from Sf9 cells expressing the RCE1 ortholog of T. brucei or L. major showed proteolytic activity against farnesylated RAS-CVIM, whereas membranes containing T. brucei AFC1 ortholog were inactive. The results suggest that RCE1 is responsible for proteolytic removal of the C-terminal aaX from prenyl-CaaX proteins in these parasites. All the three enzymatic post-translational processes are thought to be required for proper cellular functioning of CaaX-proteins in eukaryotic cells. We carried out RNA interference experiments in Trypanosoma brucei of the enzymes involved in farnesyl protein post-translational modification to evaluate their importance in cell proliferation. Knockdown of T. brucei PFT beta subunit and RCE1 mRNAs resulted in >20-fold suppression of cell growth and dramatic morphologic changes. Knockdown of PPMT mRNA caused less dramatic effects on growth but induced noticeable changes in cell morphology.
A study of biochemical and functional interactions of Htl1p, a putative component of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Rsc chromatin-remodeling complex.	HTL1, a small gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, encodes a 78-aminoacid peptide that influences the performance of a wide range of cellular processes [Lanzuolo, C., Ederle, S., Pollice, A., Russo, F., Storlazzi, A., Pulitzer, J.F., 2001. The HTL1 gene,YCR020W-b of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is necessary for growth at 37 degrees C, and for the conservation of chromosome stability and fertility. Yeast, 18, 1317-1330]. Genetic interactions and co-immunoprecipitation experiments indicate a role for Htl1p in functions controlled by RSC, a multiprotein, ATP-dependent, chromatin-remodeling complex [Lu, Y.M., Lin, Y.R., Tsai, A., Hsao, Y.S., Li, C.C., Cheng, M.Y., 2003. Dissecting the pet18 mutation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: HTL1 encodes a 7-kDa polypeptide that interacts with components of the RSC complex. Mol. Genet. Genomics., 269, 321-330] [Romeo, M.J., Angus-Hill, M.L., Sobering, A.K., Kamada, Y., Cairns, B.R., Levin, D.E., 2002. HTL1 encodes a novel factor that interacts with the Rsc chromatin-remodeling complex in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Mol. Cell. Biol., 22, 8165-8174]. Htl1p and RSC components, share the property of associating with TBP a component of general multiprotein transcription factor TFIID [Sanders, S.L., Jennings, J., Canutescu, A., Link, A.J., Weil, P.A., 2002. Proteomics of the eukaryotic transcription machinery: identification of proteins associated with components of yeast TFIID by multidimensional mass spectrometry. Mol. Cell. Biol. 22, 4723-4738]. We confirm, by integrating genetic and biochemical experiments, that Htl1p binding to the RSC complex is direct and physiologically relevant and show that it is mediated by Rsc8p, a core component of the RSC complex. Deletion of HTL1, like depletion of RSC core subunits [Moreira, J.M., Holmberg, S., 1999. Transcriptional repression of the yeast CHA1 gene requires the chromatin-remodeling complex Rsc. Embo J., 18, 2836-2844], leads to constitutive transcription of the CHA1 locus. This transcriptional phenotype exhibits variable penetrance. Deletion of HTL1 also leads to hydroxyurea hypersensitivity at 30 degrees C, suggesting a defect in replication/repair. This defect leads, during cell growth, to selection of mutations at the SIR3 locus that suppress hydroxyurea sensitivity.
Identification and characterization of insect-specific proteins by genome data analysis.	Insects constitute the vast majority of known species with their importance including biodiversity, agricultural, and human health concerns. It is likely that the successful adaptation of the Insecta clade depends on specific components in its proteome that give rise to specialized features. However, proteome determination is an intensive undertaking. Here we present results from a computational method that uses genome analysis to characterize insect and eukaryote proteomes as an approximation complementary to experimental approaches.
Vps4 regulates a subset of protein interactions at the multivesicular endosome.	During endocytic transport, specific integral membrane proteins are sorted into intraluminal vesicles that bud from the limiting membrane of the endosome. This process, known as multivesicular body (MVB) sorting, is important for several important biological processes. Moreover, components of the MVB sorting machinery are implicated in virus budding. During MVB sorting, a cargo protein recruits components of the MVB sorting machinery from cytoplasmic pools and these sequentially assemble on the endosome. Disassembly of these proteins and recycling into the cytoplasm is critical for MVB sorting. Vacuolar protein sorting 4 (Vps4) is an AAA (ATPase associated with a variety of cellular activities) ATPase which has been proposed to play a critical role in disassembly of the MVB sorting machinery. However, the mechanism by which it disassembles the complex is not clear. Vps4 contains an N-terminal microtubule interacting and trafficking (MIT) domain, which has previously been shown to be required for recruitment to endosomes, and a single AAA ATPase domain, the activity of which is required for Vps4 function. In this study we have systematically characterized the interaction of Vps4 with other components of the MVB sorting machinery. We demonstrate that Vps4 interacts directly with Vps2 and Bro1. We also show that a subset of Vps4 interactions is regulated by ATP hydrolysis, and one interaction is regulated by ATP binding. Finally, we show that most proteins interact with the Vps4 MIT domain. Our studies indicate that the MIT domain has a dual role in substrate binding and recruitment to endosomes and indicate that Vps4 disassembles the MVB sorting machinery by direct effects on multiple proteins.
Propagation of the [PIN+] prion by fragments of Rnq1 fused to GFP.	Prions are viewed as enigmatic infectious entities whose genetic properties are enciphered solely in an array of self-propagating protein aggregate conformations. Rnq1, a yeast protein with yet unknown function, forms a prion named [PIN+] for its ability to facilitate the de novo induction of another prion, [PSI+]. Here we investigate a set of RNQ1 truncations that were designed to cover major Rnq1 sequence elements similar to those important for the propagation of other yeast prions: a region rich in asparagines and glutamines and several types of oligopeptide repeats. Proteins encoded by these RNQ1 truncations were tested for their ability to (a) join (decorate) pre-existing [PIN+] aggregates made of wild-type Rnq1 and (b) maintain the heritable aggregated state in the absence of wild-type RNQ1. While the possible involvement of particular sequence elements in the propagation of [PIN+] is discussed, the major result is that the efficiency of transmission of [PIN+] from wild-type Rnq1 to a fragment decreased with the fragment's length.
A conserved phosphatase cascade that regulates nuclear membrane biogenesis.	A newly emerging family of phosphatases that are members of the haloacid dehalogenase superfamily contains the catalytic motif DXDX(T/V). A member of this DXDX(T/V) phosphatase family known as Dullard was recently shown to be a potential regulator of neural tube development in Xenopus [Satow R, Chan TC, Asashima M (2002) Biochem Biophys Res Commun 295:85-91]. Herein, we demonstrate that human Dullard and the yeast protein Nem1p perform similar functions in mammalian cells and yeast cells, respectively. In addition to similarity in primary sequence, Dullard and Nem1p possess similar domains and show similar substrate preferences, and both localize to the nuclear envelope. Additionally, we show that human Dullard can rescue the aberrant nuclear envelope morphology of nem1Delta yeast cells, functionally replacing Nem1p. Finally, Nem1p, has been shown to deposphorylate the yeast phosphatidic acid phosphatase Smp2p [Santos-Rosa H, Leung J, Grimsey N, Peak-Chew S, Siniossoglou S (2005) EMBO J 24:1931-1941], and we show that Dullard dephosphorylates the mammalian phospatidic acid phosphatase, lipin. Therefore, we propose that Dullard participates in a unique phosphatase cascade regulating nuclear membrane biogenesis, and that this cascade is conserved from yeast to mammals.
High-affinity single-domain binding proteins with a binary-code interface.	High degrees of sequence and conformation complexity found in natural protein interaction interfaces are generally considered essential for achieving tight and specific interactions. However, it has been demonstrated that specific antibodies can be built by using an interface with a binary code consisting of only Tyr and Ser. This surprising result might be attributed to yet undefined properties of the antibody scaffold that uniquely enhance its capacity for target binding. In this work we tested the generality of the binary-code interface by engineering binding proteins based on a single-domain scaffold. We show that Tyr/Ser binary-code interfaces consisting of only 15-20 positions within a fibronectin type III domain (FN3; 95 residues) are capable of producing specific binding proteins (termed "monobodies") with a low-nanomolar K(d). A 2.35-A x-ray crystal structure of a monobody in complex with its target, maltose-binding protein, and mutation analysis revealed dominant contributions of Tyr residues to binding as well as striking molecular mimicry of a maltose-binding protein substrate, beta-cyclodextrin, by the Tyr/Ser binary interface. This work suggests that an interaction interface with low chemical diversity but with significant conformational diversity is generally sufficient for tight and specific molecular recognition, providing fundamental insights into factors governing protein-protein interactions.
Differential P1 arginine and lysine recognition in the prototypical proprotein convertase Kex2.	The high-resolution crystal structure of kexin (Kex2) in complex with a peptidyl-chloromethylketone inhibitor containing a noncognate lysine at the P(1) position provides the structural basis for the differential lysine/arginine selectivity that defines the prohormone (proprotein) convertase (PC) family. By comparison with the previous structures of Kex2 and furin, this structure of the acylated enzyme provides a basis for the observed decrease in the acylation rate with substrates containing a lysine at P(1) and the absence of an effect on the deacylation rate without involving mobility of the S(1) lid. The structure of the complex shows that a secondary subsite in the S(1) pocket is present, and that this site recognizes and binds the P(1) lysine in a more shallow fashion than arginine. This results in a displacement of the bound peptide away from the S385 nucleophile relative to substrates containing a P(1) arginine. It is concluded that this alternate binding site and resultant displacement of the scissile bond in the active site results in the observed decrease in the acylation rate. Studies of the inactivation kinetics of Kex2 by two peptidyl chloromethylketone inhibitors demonstrates that the selectivity between lysine and arginine at the P(1) position arises at the acylation step, consistent with what was observed with peptidyl substrates [Rockwell NC, Fuller RS (2001) J Biol Chem 276:38394-38399].
A new method for the construction of a mutant library with a predictable occurrence rate using Poisson distribution.	A yeast transcriptional activator, Gcn4p, induces the expression of genes that are involved in amino acid and purine biosynthetic pathways under amino acid starvation. Gcn4p has an acidic activation domain in the central region and a bZIP domain in the C-terminus that is divided into the DNA-binding motif and dimerization leucine zipper motif. In order to identify amino acids in the DNA-binding motif of Gcn4p which are involved in transcriptional activation, we constructed mutant libraries in the DNA-binding motif through an innovative application of random mutagenesis. Mutant library made by oligonucleotides which were mutated randomly using the Poisson distribution showed that the actual mutation frequency was in good agreement with expected values. This method could save the time and effort to create a mutant library with a predictable mutation frequency. Based on the studies using the mutant libraries constructed by the new method, the specific residues of the DNA-binding domain in Gcn4p appear to be involved in the transcriptional activities on a conserved binding site.
Structural basis for substrate delivery by acyl carrier protein in the yeast fatty acid synthase.	In the multifunctional fungal fatty acid synthase (FAS), the acyl carrier protein (ACP) domain shuttles reaction intermediates covalently attached to its prosthetic phosphopantetheine group between the different enzymatic centers of the reaction cycle. Here, we report the structure of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae FAS determined at 3.1 angstrom resolution with its ACP stalled at the active site of ketoacyl synthase. The ACP contacts the base of the reaction chamber through conserved, charge-complementary surfaces, which optimally position the ACP toward the catalytic cleft of ketoacyl synthase. The conformation of the prosthetic group suggests a switchblade mechanism for acyl chain delivery to the active site of the enzyme.
Sequence determinants of E2-E6AP binding affinity and specificity.	The conjugation of ubiquitin to substrates requires a series of enzymatic reactions consisting of an activating enzyme (E1), conjugating enzymes (E2) and ligases (E3). Tagging the appropriate substrate with ubiquitin is achieved by specific E2-E3 and E3-substrate interactions. E6AP, a member of the HECT family of E3s, has been previously shown to bind and function with the E2s UbcH7 and UbcH8. To decipher the sequence determinants of this specificity we have developed a quantitative E2-E3 binding assay based on fluorescence polarization and used this assay to measure the affinity of wild-type and mutant E2-E6AP interactions. Alanine scanning of the E6AP-UbcH7 binding interface identified four side-chains on UbcH7 and six side-chains on E6AP that contribute more than 1 kcal/mol to the binding free energy. Two of the hot spot residues from UbcH7 (K96 and K100) are conserved in UbcH8 but vary across other E2s. To determine if these are key specificity determining residues, we attempted to induce a tighter association between the E2 UbcH5b and E6AP by mutating the corresponding positions in UbcH5b to lysine residues. Surprisingly, the mutations had little effect, but rather a mutation at UbcH7 position 4, which is not at a hot spot on the UbcH7-E6AP interface, significantly strengthened UbcH5bs affinity for E6AP. This result indicates that E2-E3 binding specificities are a function of both favorable interactions that promote binding, and unfavorable interactions that prevent binding with unwanted partners.
Molecular implications of evolutionary differences in CHD double chromodomains.	Double chromodomains occur in CHD proteins, which are ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factors implicated in RNA polymerase II transcription regulation. Biochemical studies suggest important differences in the histone H3 tail binding of different CHD chromodomains. In human and Drosophila, CHD1 double chromodomains bind lysine 4-methylated histone H3 tail, which is a hallmark of transcriptionally active chromatin in all eukaryotes. Here, we present the crystal structure of the yeast CHD1 double chromodomains, and pinpoint their differences with that of the human CHD1 double chromodomains. The most conserved residues in these double chromodomains are the two chromoboxes that orient adjacently. Only a subset of CHD chromoboxes can form an aromatic cage for methyllysine binding, and methyllysine binding requires correctly oriented inserts. These factors preclude yeast CHD1 double chromodomains from interacting with the histone H3 tail. Despite great sequence similarity between the human CHD1 and CHD2 chromodomains, variation within an insert likely prevents CHD2 double chromodomains from binding lysine 4-methylated histone H3 tail as efficiently as in CHD1. By using the available structural and biochemical data we highlight the evolutionary specialization of CHD double chromodomains, and provide insights about their targeting capacities.
The eukaryotic translation initiation factors eIF1 and eIF1A induce an open conformation of the 40S ribosome.	Initiation of translation is the process by which initiator tRNA and the start codon of mRNA are positioned in the ribosomal P site. In eukaryotes, one of the first steps involves the binding of two small factors, eIF1 and eIF1A, to the small (40S) ribosomal subunit. This facilitates tRNA binding, allows scanning of mRNA, and maintains fidelity of start codon recognition. Using cryo-EM, we have obtained 3D reconstructions of 40S bound to both eIF1 and eIF1A, and with each factor alone. These structures reveal that together, eIF1 and eIF1A stabilize a conformational change that opens the mRNA binding channel. Biochemical data reveal that both factors accelerate the rate of ternary complex (eIF2*GTP*Met-tRNA(i)(Met)) binding to 40S but only eIF1A stabilizes this interaction. Our results suggest that eIF1 and eIF1A promote an open, scanning-competent preinitiation complex that closes upon start codon recognition and eIF1 release to stabilize ternary complex binding and clamp down on mRNA.
Nuclear export of ribosomal 60S subunits by the general mRNA export receptor Mex67-Mtr2.	The yeast Mex67-Mtr2 complex and its homologous metazoan counterpart TAP-p15 operate as nuclear export receptors by binding and translocating mRNA through the nuclear pore complexes. Here, we show how Mex67-Mtr2 can also function in the nuclear export of the ribosomal 60S subunit. Biochemical and genetic studies reveal a previously unrecognized interaction surface on the NTF2-like scaffold of the Mex67-Mtr2 heterodimer, which in vivo binds to pre-60S particles and in vitro can interact with 5S rRNA. Crucial structural requirements for this binding platform are loop insertions in the middle domain of Mex67 and Mtr2, which are absent from human TAP-p15. Notably, when the positively charged amino acids in the Mex67 loop are mutated, interaction of Mex67-Mtr2 with pre-60S particles and 5S rRNA is inhibited, and 60S subunits, but not mRNA, accumulate in the nucleus. Thus, the general mRNA exporter Mex67-Mtr2 contains a distinct electrostatic interaction surface for transporting 60S preribosomal cargo.
Structure of a Fbw7-Skp1-cyclin E complex: multisite-phosphorylated substrate recognition by SCF ubiquitin ligases.	The ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis of cyclin E plays a central role in cell-cycle progression, and cyclin E accumulation is a common event in cancer. Cyclin E degradation is triggered by multisite phosphorylation, which induces binding to the SCF(Fbw7) ubiquitin ligase complex. Structures of the Skp1-Fbw7 complex bound to cyclin E peptides identify a doubly phosphorylated pThr380/pSer384 cyclin E motif as an optimal, high-affinity degron and a singly phosphorylated pThr62 motif as a low-affinity one. Biochemical data indicate that the closely related yeast SCF(Cdc4) complex recognizes the multisite phosphorylated Sic1 substrate similarly and identify three doubly phosphorylated Sic1 degrons, each capable of high-affinity interactions with two Cdc4 phosphate binding sites. A model that explains the role of multiple cyclin E/Sic1 degrons is provided by the findings that Fbw7 and Cdc4 dimerize, that Fbw7 dimerization enhances the turnover of a weakly associated cyclin E in vivo, and that Cdc4 dimerization increases the rate and processivity of Sic1 ubiquitination in vitro.
Connecting protein structure with predictions of regulatory sites.	A common task posed by microarray experiments is to infer the binding site preferences for a known transcription factor from a collection of genes that it regulates and to ascertain whether the factor acts alone or in a complex. The converse problem can also be posed: Given a collection of binding sites, can the regulatory factor or complex of factors be inferred? Both tasks are substantially facilitated by using relatively simple homology models for protein-DNA interactions, as well as the rapidly expanding protein structure database. For budding yeast, we are able to construct reliable structural models for 67 transcription factors and with them redetermine factor binding sites by using a Bayesian Gibbs sampling algorithm and an extensive protein localization data set. For 49 factors in common with a prior analysis of this data set (based largely on phylogenetic conservation), we find that half of the previously predicted binding motifs are in need of some revision. We also solve the inverse problem of ascertaining the factors from the binding sites by assigning a correct protein fold to 25 of the 49 cases from a previous study. Our approach is easily extended to other organisms, including higher eukaryotes. Our study highlights the utility of enlarging current structural genomics projects that exhaustively sample fold structure space to include all factors with significantly different DNA-binding specificities.
Molecular basis of coiled-coil formation.	Coiled coils have attracted considerable interest as design templates in a wide range of applications. Successful coiled-coil design strategies therefore require a detailed understanding of coiled-coil folding. One common feature shared by coiled coils is the presence of a short autonomous helical folding unit, termed "trigger sequence," that is indispensable for folding. Detailed knowledge of trigger sequences at the molecular level is thus key to a general understanding of coiled-coil formation. Using a multidisciplinary approach, we identify and characterize here the molecular determinants that specify the helical conformation of the monomeric early folding intermediate of the GCN4 coiled coil. We demonstrate that a network of hydrogen-bonding and electrostatic interactions stabilize the trigger-sequence helix. This network is rearranged in the final dimeric coiled-coil structure, and its destabilization significantly slows down GCN4 leucine zipper folding. Our findings provide a general explanation for the molecular mechanism of coiled-coil formation.
Supramolecular assembly of VDAC in native mitochondrial outer membranes.	The voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) is the most abundant protein in the mitochondrial outer membrane (MOM). Due to its localization, VDAC is involved in a wide range of processes, such as passage of ATP out of mitochondria, and particularly plays a central role in apoptosis. Importantly, the assembly of VDAC provides interaction with a wide range of proteins, some implying oligomerization. However, many questions remain as to the VDAC structure, its supramolecular assembly, packing density, and oligomerization in the MOM is unknown. Here we report the so far highest resolution view of VDAC and its native supramolecular assembly. We have studied yeast MOM by high-resolution atomic force microscopy (AFM) in physiological buffer and found VDAC in two distinct types of membrane domains. We found regions where VDAC was packed at high density (approximately 80%), rendering the membrane a voltage-dependent molecular sieve. In other domains, VDAC has a low surface density (approximately 20%) and the pore assembly ranges from single molecules to groups of up to 20. We assume that these groups are mobile in the lipid bilayer and allow association and dissociation with the large assemblies. VDAC has no preferred oligomeric state and no long-range order was observed in densely packed domains. High-resolution topographs show an eye-shaped VDAC with 3.8 nm x 2.7 nm pore dimensions. Based on the observed VDAC structure and the pair correlation function (PCF) analysis of the domain architectures, we propose a simple model that could explain the phase behavior of VDAC, and illustrates the sensitivity of the molecular organization to conditions in the cell, and the possibility for modulation of its assembly. The implication of VDAC in cytochrome c release from the mitochondria during cell apoptosis has made it a target in cancer research.
SGT2 and MDY2 interact with molecular chaperone YDJ1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Sgt2 was thought to be the homologue of vertebrate SGT (small glutamine tetratricopeptide repeat-containing protein). SGT has been known to interact with both Hsp70 and Hsp90. However, it was not clear whether Sgt2 might have a similar capacity. Here, we showed that Ssa1/Ssa2 (yeast heat shock cognate [Hsc]70), Hsc82 (yeast Hsp90), and Hsp104 coprecipitated with Sgt2 from yeast lysates. Another molecular chaperone, Ydj1, known to interact with Ssal and Hsc82, also coprecipitated with Sgt2. Synthetic lethality between SGT2 and YDJ1 was observed after the cells were under stress, although Sgt2 might not interact physically with Ydj1. We also found that Mdy2 interacted with the N-terminal region of Sgt2 and that Mdy2 appeared to interact physically with Ydj1. Mdy2 therefore may mediate the association of Ydj1 and Sgt2. In addition, the mating efficiency of mdy2delta, sgt2delta, and mdy2deltasgt2delta strains was reduced to a similar extent. Compared with mdy2delta and ydj1delta cells, ydj1deltamdy2delta cells, however, showed a further suppression in mating efficiency. Moreover, MDY2 interacted genetically with YDJ1. These results suggest that protein complexes containing Sgt2 and Mdy2 bring molecular chaperones together to carry out certain chaperoning functions.
Molecular architecture and functional model of the complete yeast ESCRT-I heterotetramer.	The endosomal sorting complex required for transport-I (ESCRT-I) complex, which is conserved from yeast to humans, directs the lysosomal degradation of ubiquitinated transmembrane proteins and the budding of the HIV virus. Yeast ESCRT-I contains four subunits, Vps23, Vps28, Vps37, and Mvb12. The crystal structure of the heterotetrameric ESCRT-I complex reveals a highly asymmetric complex of 1:1:1:1 subunit stoichiometry. The core complex is nearly 18 nm long and consists of a headpiece attached to a 13 nm stalk. The stalk is important for cargo sorting by ESCRT-I and is proposed to serve as a spacer regulating the correct disposition of cargo and other ESCRT components. Hydrodynamic constraints and crystallographic structures were used to generate a model of intact ESCRT-I in solution. The results show how ESCRT-I uses a combination of a rigid stalk and flexible tethers to interact with lipids, cargo, and other ESCRT complexes over a span of approximately 25 nm.
The crystal structure of yeast fatty acid synthase, a cellular machine with eight active sites working together.	In yeast, the whole metabolic pathway for making 16- and 18-carbon fatty acids is carried out by fatty acid synthase, a 2.6 megadalton molecular-weight macromolecular assembly containing six copies of all eight catalytic centers. We have determined its crystal structure, which illuminates how this enzyme is initially activated and then carries out multiple steps of synthesis in each of six sterically isolated reaction chambers. Six of the catalytic sites are in the wall of the assembly facing an acyl carrier protein (ACP) bound to the ketoacyl synthase domain. Two-dimensional diffusion of substrates to the catalytic sites may be achieved by the electrostatically negative ACP swinging to each of the six electrostatically positive catalytic sites. The phosphopantetheinyl transferase domain lies outside the shell of the assembly, inaccessible to ACP that lies inside, suggesting that the attachment of the pantetheine arm to ACP must occur before complete assembly of the complex.
Localization of Gts1p in cortical actin patches of yeast and its possible role in endocytosis.	Herein we report that Gts1p fused with green-fluorescent protein (GFP) is localized in the cortical actin patch besides nuclei in yeast and the cortical Gts1p changed its position together with the patch depending on the cell-cycle phase, while nuclear Gts1p accumulated predominantly in the budding phase. Whereas Gts1p does not directly bind to actin, it associated mainly with the actin-associated protein Pan1p. In the GTS1-deleted transformant gts1Delta, the number of cells containing either a fragmented vacuole or an enlarged single central vacuole increased and the uptake of the hydrophilic dye Lucifer yellow (LY) in the vacuole decreased. Further, gts1Delta transformed with a mutant Gts1p having two cysteine-to-alanine substitutions in a zinc finger resembling that of GTPase-activating proteins of ADP-ribosylation factors (ARF-GAP) neither recovered the LY uptake unlike gts1Delta transformed with the wild-type GTS1, nor reduced the average size of central vacuoles as much as the latter did. These results suggested that Gts1p in the actin patch is involved in the fluid-phase endocytosis and membrane trafficking for vacuole formation and that the putative ARF-GAP domain in Gts1p plays an important role in these functions.
Ugo1p is a multipass transmembrane protein with a single carrier domain required for mitochondrial fusion.	The outer mitochondrial membrane protein Ugo1 forms a complex with the Fzo1p and Mgm1p GTPases that regulates mitochondrial fusion in yeast. Ugo1p contains two putative carrier domains (PCDs) found in mitochondrial carrier proteins (MCPs). Mitochondrial carrier proteins are multipass transmembrane proteins that actively transport molecules across the inner mitochondrial membrane. Mitochondrial carrier protein transport requires functional carrier domains with the consensus sequence PX(D/E)XX(K/R). Mutation of charged residues in this consensus sequence disrupts transport function. In this study, we used targeted mutagenesis to show that charge reversal mutations in Ugo1p PCD2, but not PCD1, disrupt mitochondrial fusion. Ugo1p is reported to be a single-pass transmembrane protein despite the fact that it contains several additional predicted transmembrane segments. Using a combination of protein targeting and membrane extraction experiments, we provide evidence that Ugo1p contains additional transmembrane domains and is likely a multipass transmembrane protein. These studies identify PCD2 as a functional domain of Ugo1p and provide the first experimental evidence for a multipass topology of this essential fusion component.
Molecular chaperones HscA/Ssq1 and HscB/Jac1 and their roles in iron-sulfur protein maturation.	Genetic and biochemical studies have led to the identification of several cellular pathways for the biosynthesis of iron-sulfur proteins in different organisms. The most broadly distributed and highly conserved system involves an Hsp70 chaperone and J-protein co-chaperone system that interacts with a scaffold-like protein involved in [FeS]-cluster preassembly. Specialized forms of Hsp70 and their co-chaperones have evolved in bacteria (HscA, HscB) and in certain fungi (Ssq1, Jac1), whereas most eukaryotes employ a multifunctional mitochondrial Hsp70 (mtHsp70) together with a specialized co-chaperone homologous to HscB/Jac1. HscA and Ssq1 have been shown to specifically bind to a conserved sequence present in the [FeS]-scaffold protein designated IscU in bacteria and Isu in fungi, and the crystal structure of a complex of a peptide containing the IscU recognition region bound to the HscA substrate binding domain has been determined. The interaction of IscU/Isu with HscA/Ssq1 is regulated by HscB/Jac1 which bind the scaffold protein to assist delivery to the chaperone and stabilize the chaperone-scaffold complex by enhancing chaperone ATPase activity. The crystal structure of HscB reveals that the N-terminal J-domain involved in regulation of HscA ATPase activity is similar to other J-proteins, whereas the C-terminal domain is unique and appears to mediate specific interactions with IscU. At the present time the exact function(s) of chaperone-[FeS]-scaffold interactions in iron-sulfur protein biosynthesis remain(s) to be established. In vivo and in vitro studies of yeast Ssq1 and Jac1 indicate that the chaperones are not required for [FeS]-cluster assembly on Isu. Recent in vitro studies using bacterial HscA, HscB and IscU have shown that the chaperones destabilize the IscU[FeS] complex and facilitate cluster delivery to an acceptor apo-protein consistent with a role in regulating cluster release and transfer. Additional genetic and biochemical studies are needed to extend these findings to mtHsp70 activities in higher eukaryotes.
Isotopic and other studies on the molecular origins of substrate regulation of some pyruvate decarboxylases: a reconsideration.	Solvent isotope effect and beta-secondary isotope effect studies of the steady-state reaction of the pyruvate decarboxylase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (ScPDC), which gains its full activity in a process requiring some seconds, suggested a model that ascribed the isotope effects to a reversible carbonyl-addition reaction between the 'regulatory pyruvate' molecule and the sulfhydryl group of Cys 221, occurring at the beginning and end of each catalytic cycle. The slow ('hysteretic') regulatory activation was thought to consist only of binding the regulatory molecule properly. Since the proposal of this model, much important progress in understanding both the structural and dynamic chemistry of ScPDC has been made in several laboratories. The purpose of this article is to review this new information and to evaluate the above model and others in the light of currently available evidence.
Difference between yeast and bovine mitochondrial ADP/ATP carriers in terms of conformational properties of the first matrix loop as deduced by use of copper-o-phenanthroline.	The mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier (AAC) has 6 transmembrane regions and 3 matrix loops. Our previous mutational study on the Cys residue in the LM1s of chimeric bovine type 1 AAC (yN-bAAC1), in which the N-terminal 11 amino acids of bovine type 1 AAC are substituted with the corresponding 26 amino acids of yeast type 2 AAC (yAAC2), and yAAC2 in the yeast expression system suggested the possibility of a different structural feature between their LM1s. In the present study, we compared the effects of the SH cross-linking reagent copper-o-phenanthroline (Cu(OP)(2)) on yN-bAAC1 and yAAC2 in order to study the difference between these LM1s of the 2 carriers. Cu(OP)(2) is known to cross-link 2 AAC molecules in a functional dimer via a Cys residue in each first matrix loop (LM1). yN-bAAC1 exhibited intra- and inter-molecular cross-linking, in agreement with the results of a previous study on the native bovine carrier and suggesting that yN-bAAC1 had the same structure as the native carrier. yAAC2 also showed intra- and inter-molecular cross-linking. However, the speed of formation of the inter-molecular cross-linking of yN-bAAC1 was faster than that of yAAC2, suggesting that the conformational state of the LM1 was different between the 2 carriers. In addition, we also studied the effects of AAC-specific inhibitors and solubilization with Triton X-100 on the cross-linking.
Systematic functional assessment of human protein-protein interaction maps.	Protein-protein interaction maps can contribute substantially to the discovery of protein cooperation patterns in the cell. Recently, several large-scale human protein-protein interaction maps have been generated using experimental or computational approaches. Evaluation of these maps is likely to provide a better understanding of human biology. However, careful analysis is needed, as the comparison of interaction maps of lower eukaryotes showed a surprising divergence between different maps. Here, we present a first systematic functional assessment of eight currently available large-scale human protein-protein interaction maps. The analysis shows that these maps include a large number of common proteins, but only a small number of common interactions. We detected several types of biases that need to be considered in the future utilization of these maps.
Improving the performance of an SVM-based method for predicting protein-protein interactions.	Predicting the interactions between all the possible pairs of proteins in a given organism (making a protein-protein interaction map) is a crucial subject in bioinformatics. Most of the previous methods based on supervised machine learning use datasets containing approximately the same number of interacting pairs of proteins (positives) and non-interacting pairs of proteins (negatives) for training a classifier and are estimated to yield a large number of false positives. Thinking that the negatives used in previous studies cannot adequately represent all the negatives that need to be taken into account, we have developed a method based on multiple Support Vector Machines (SVMs) that uses more negatives than positives for predicting interactions between pairs of yeast proteins and pairs of human proteins. We show that the performance of a single SVM improved as we increased the number of negatives used for training and that, if more than one CPU is available, an approach using multiple SVMs is useful not only for improving the performance of classifiers but also for reducing the time required for training them. Our approach can also be applied to assessing the reliability of high-throughput interactions.
Decade of genomics--methods for genome investigation in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae]	The last ten years, since yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome was sequenced, brought a big impact in genome-wide techniques. The tenth anniversary of genomic era provokes the following resume: a lot of new methods were invented. The yeast strains libraries carrying transposon insertions, gene deletions or tagged proteins have been created. Using them, the phenotypes of gene deletions, as well as the biological activity, cellular localization and possible modifications of their protein products were elucidated. SAGE analysis and DNA microarray experiments showed gene expression profiles and allowed to build interaction networks of gene regulation. The two dimensional gels, mass spectrometry, protein arrays and two-hybrid system carry information about protein interactions, modifications, and biochemical activities. All these methods permit to increase the number of genes with known cellular functions. Moreover, testing these techniques on yeast S. cerevisiae--a model eukaryotic organism--opened the door for their usage in all other species.
Giardia lamblia EB1 is a functional homolog of yeast Bim1p that binds to microtubules.	Giardia lamblia, with two nuclei and a distinct polarized morphology, is an interesting organism for investigating how distribution of its microtubule (MT) is controlled during its cell cycle. In this study, we identified the end-binding protein 1 (EB1) of G. lamblia, a well-known microtubule-associated protein that organizes MTs in eukaryotes. Immunofluorescence assays using recombinant EB1 (rEB1)-specific antibodies demonstrated EB1 localization in nuclear membrane as well as in some cytoskeletal structures such as axomenes and median bodies of trophozoites of G. lamblia. Complementation experiments using the BIM1 knock-out mutant of yeast, the yeast homolog of mammalian EB1, showed that giardial EB1 was able to carry out a homologous function in controlling MT dynamics. In addition, rEB1 of G. lamblia co-precipitated with MTs by an in vitro binding assay, thereby demonstrating that G. lamblia EB1 is a MT-associated protein. These results, taken together, suggest that G. lamblia EB1 is a functional homolog of eukaryotic EB1 and is likely to be a determinant for MT distribution.
Defective assembly of a hybrid vacuolar H(+)-ATPase containing the mouse testis-specific E1 isoform and yeast subunits.	Mammalian vacuolar-type proton pumping ATPases (V-ATPases) are diverse multi-subunit proton pumps. They are formed from membrane V(o) and catalytic V(1) sectors, whose subunits have cell-specific or ubiquitous isoforms. Biochemical study of a unique V-ATPase is difficult because ones with different isoforms are present in the same cell. However, the properties of mouse isoforms can be studied using hybrid V-ATPases formed from the isoforms and other yeast subunits. As shown previously, mouse subunit E isoform E1 (testis-specific) or E2 (ubiquitous) can form active V-ATPases with other subunits of yeast, but E1/yeast hybrid V-ATPase is defective in proton transport at 37 degrees C (Sun-Wada, G.-H., Imai-Senga, Y., Yamamoto, A., Murata, Y., Hirata, T., Wada, Y., and Futai, M., 2002, J. Biol. Chem. 277, 18098-18105). In this study, we have analyzed the properties of E1/yeast hybrid V-ATPase to understand the role of the E subunit. The proton transport by the defective hybrid ATPase was reversibly recovered when incubation temperature of vacuoles or cells was shifted to 30 degrees C. Corresponding to the reversible defect of the hybrid V-ATPase, the V(o) subunit a epitope was exposed to the corresponding antibody at 37 degrees C, but became inaccessible at 30 degrees C. However, the V(1) sector was still associated with V(o) at 37 degrees C, as shown immunochemically. The control yeast V-ATPase was active at 37 degrees C, and its epitope was not accessible to the antibody. Glucose depletion, known to dissociate V(1) from V(o) in yeast, had only a slight effect on the hybrid at acidic pH. The domain between Lys26 and Val83 of E1, which contains eight residues not conserved between E1 and E2, was responsible for the unique properties of the hybrid. These results suggest that subunit E, especially its amino-terminal domain, plays a pertinent role in the assembly of V-ATPase subunits in vacuolar membranes.
Differential blocking effects of the acetaldehyde-derived DNA lesion N2-ethyl-2'-deoxyguanosine on transcription by multisubunit and single subunit RNA polymerases.	Acetaldehyde, the first metabolite of ethanol, reacts with DNA to form adducts, including N(2)-ethyl-2'-deoxyguanosine (N(2)-Et-dG). Although the effects of N(2)-Et-dG on DNA polymerases have been well studied, nothing is known about possible effects of this lesion on transcription by RNA polymerases (RNAPs). Using primer extension assays in vitro, we found that a single N(2)-Et-dG lesion is a strong block to both mammalian RNAPII and two other multisubunit RNAPs, (yeast RNAPII and Escherichia coli RNAP), as well as to T7 RNAP. However, the mechanism of transcription blockage appears to differ between the multisubunit RNAPs and T7 RNAP. Specifically, all three of the multisubunit RNAPs can incorporate a single rNTP residue opposite the lesion, whereas T7 RNAP is essentially unable to do so. Using the mammalian RNAPII, we found that CMP is exclusively incorporated opposite the N(2)-Et-dG lesion. In addition, we also show that the accessory transcription factor TFIIS does not act as a lesion bypass factor, as it does for other nonbulky DNA lesions; instead, it stimulates the polymerase to remove the CMP incorporated opposite the lesion by mammalian RNAPII. We also include models of the N(2)-Et-dG within the active site of yeast RNAPII, which are compatible with our observations.
Disulfide cross-links reveal conserved features of DNA topoisomerase I architecture and a role for the N terminus in clamp closure.	In eukaryotes, DNA topoisomerase I (Top1) catalyzes the relaxation of supercoiled DNA by a conserved mechanism of transient DNA strand breakage, rotation, and religation. The unusual architecture of the monomeric human enzyme comprises a conserved protein clamp, which is tightly wrapped about duplex DNA, and an extended coiled-coil linker domain that appropriately positions the C-terminal active site tyrosine domain against the Top1 core to form the catalytic pocket. A structurally undefined N-terminal domain, dispensable for enzyme activity, mediates protein-protein interactions. Previously, reversible disulfide bonds were designed to assess whether locking the Top1 clamp around duplex DNA would restrict DNA strand rotation within the covalent Top1-DNA intermediate. The active site proximal disulfide bond in full-length Top1-clamp(534) restricted DNA rotation (Woo, M. H., Losasso, C., Guo, H., Pattarello, L., Benedetti, P., and Bjornsti, M. A. (2003) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 100, 13767-13772), whereas the more distal disulfide bond of the N-terminally truncated Topo70-clamp(499) did not (Carey, J. F., Schultz, S. J., Sisson, L., Fazzio, T. G., and Champoux, J. J. (2003) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 100, 5640-5645). To assess the contribution of the N-terminal domain to the dynamics of Top1 clamping of DNA, the same disulfide bonds were engineered into full-length Top1 and truncated Topo70, and the activities of these proteins were assessed in vitro and in yeast. Here we report that the N terminus impacts the opening and closing of the Top1 protein clamp. We also show that the architecture of yeast and human Top1 is conserved in so far as cysteine substitutions of the corresponding residues suffice to lock the Top1-clamp. However, the composition of the divergent N-terminal/linker domains impacts Top1-clamp activity and stability in vivo.
Kap95p binding induces the switch loops of RanGDP to adopt the GTP-bound conformation: implications for nuclear import complex assembly dynamics.	The asymmetric distribution of the nucleotide-bound state of Ran across the nuclear envelope is crucial for determining the directionality of nuclear transport. In the nucleus, Ran is primarily in the guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP)-bound state, whereas in the cytoplasm, Ran is primarily guanosine 5'-diphosphate (GDP)-bound. Conformational changes within the Ran switch I and switch II loops are thought to modulate its affinity for importin-beta. Here, we show that RanGDP and importin-beta form a stable complex with a micromolar dissociation constant. This complex can be dissociated by importin-beta binding partners such as importin-alpha. Surprisingly, the crystal structure of the Kap95p-RanGDP complex shows that Kap95p induces the switch I and II regions of RanGDP to adopt a conformation that resembles that of the GTP-bound form. The structure of the complex provides insights into the structural basis for the gradation of affinities regulating nuclear protein transport.
Amino acids induce peptide uptake via accelerated degradation of CUP9, the transcriptional repressor of the PTR2 peptide transporter.	Multiple pathways link expression of PTR2, the transporter of di- and tripeptides in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, to the availability and quality of nitrogen sources. Previous work has shown that induction of PTR2 by extracellular amino acids requires, in particular, SSY1 and PTR3. SSY1 is structurally similar to amino acid transporters but functions as a sensor of amino acids. PTR3 acts downstream of SSY1. Expression of the PTR2 peptide transporter is induced not only by amino acids but also by dipeptides with destabilizing N-terminal residues. These dipeptides bind to UBR1, the ubiquitin ligase of the N-end rule pathway, and allosterically accelerate the UBR1-dependent degradation of CUP9, a transcriptional repressor of PTR2. UBR1 targets CUP9 through its internal degron. Here we demonstrate that the repression of PTR2 by CUP9 requires TUP1 and SSN6, the corepressor proteins that form a complex with CUP9. We also show that the induction of PTR2 by amino acids is mediated by the UBR1-dependent acceleration of CUP9 degradation that requires both SSY1 and PTR3. The acceleration of CUP9 degradation is shown to be attained without increasing the activity of the N-end rule pathway toward substrates with destabilizing N-terminal residues. We also found that GAP1, a general amino acid transporter, strongly contributes to the induction of PTR2 by Trp. Although several aspects of this complex circuit remain to be understood, our findings establish new functional links between the amino acids-sensing SPS system, the CUP9-TUP1-SSN6 repressor complex, the PTR2 peptide transporter, and the UBR1-dependent N-end rule pathway.
TOR1 and TOR2 have distinct locations in live cells.	TOR is a structurally and functionally conserved Ser/Thr kinase found in two multiprotein complexes that regulate many cellular processes to control cell growth. Although extensively studied, the localization of TOR is still ambiguous, possibly because endogenous TOR in live cells has not been examined. Here, we examined the localization of green fluorescent protein (GFP) tagged, endogenous TOR1 and TOR2 in live S. cerevisiae cells. A DNA cassette encoding three copies of green fluorescent protein (3XGFP) was inserted in the TOR1 gene (at codon D330) or the TOR2 gene (at codon N321). The TORs were tagged internally because TOR1 or TOR2 tagged at the N or C terminus was not functional. The TOR1(D330-3XGFP) strain was not hypersensitive to rapamycin, was not cold sensitive, and was not resistant to manganese toxicity caused by the loss of Pmr1, all indications that TOR1-3XGFP was expressed and functional. TOR2-3XGFP was functional, as TOR2 is an essential gene and TOR2(N321-3XGFP) haploid cells were viable. Thus, TOR1 and TOR2 retain function after the insertion of 748 amino acids in a variable region of their noncatalytic domain. The localization patterns of TOR1-3XGFP and TOR2-3XGFP were documented by imaging of live cells. TOR1-3XGFP was diffusely cytoplasmic and concentrated near the vacuolar membrane. The TOR2-3XGFP signal was cytoplasmic but predominately in dots at the plasma membrane. Thus, TOR1 and TOR2 have distinct localization patterns, consistent with the regulation of cellular processes as part of two different complexes.
A direct interaction between the Utp6 half-a-tetratricopeptide repeat domain and a specific peptide in Utp21 is essential for efficient pre-rRNA processing.	The small subunit (SSU) processome is a ribosome biogenesis intermediate that assembles from its subcomplexes onto the pre-18S rRNA with yet unknown order and structure. Here, we investigate the architecture of the UtpB subcomplex of the SSU processome, focusing on the interaction between the half-a-tetratricopeptide repeat (HAT) domain of Utp6 and a specific peptide in Utp21. We present a comprehensive map of the interactions within the UtpB subcomplex and further show that the N-terminal domain of Utp6 interacts with Utp18 while the HAT domain interacts with Utp21. Using a panel of point and deletion mutants of Utp6, we show that an intact HAT domain is essential for efficient pre-rRNA processing and cell growth. Further investigation of the Utp6-Utp21 interaction using both genetic and biophysical methods shows that the HAT domain binds a specific peptide ligand in Utp21, the first example of a HAT domain peptide ligand, with a dissociation constant of 10 muM.
Irreversible oxidation of the active-site cysteine of peroxiredoxin to cysteine sulfonic acid for enhanced molecular chaperone activity.	The thiol (-SH) of the active cysteine residue in peroxiredoxin (Prx) is known to be reversibly hyperoxidized to cysteine sulfinic acid (-SO(2)H), which can be reduced back to thiol by sulfiredoxin/sestrin. However, hyperoxidized Prx of an irreversible nature has not been reported yet. Using an antibody developed against the sulfonylated (-SO(3)H) yeast Prx (Tsa1p) active-site peptide (AFTFVCPTEI), we observed an increase in the immunoblot intensity in proportion to the H(2)O(2) concentrations administered to the yeast cells. We identified two species of hyperoxidized Tsa1p: one can be reduced back (reversible) with sulfiredoxin, and the other cannot (irreversible). Irreversibly hyperoxidized Tsa1p was identified as containing the active-site cysteine sulfonic acid (Tsa1p-SO(3)H) by mass spectrometry. Tsa1p-SO(3)H was not an autoxidation product of Tsa1p-SO(2)H and was maintained in yeast cells even after two doubling cycles. Tsa1p-SO(3)H self-assembled into a ring-shaped multimeric form was shown by electron microscopy. Although the Tsa1p-SO(3)H multimer lost its peroxidase activity, it gained approximately 4-fold higher chaperone activity compared with Tsa1p-SH. In this study, we identify an irreversibly hyperoxidized Prx, Tsa1p-SO(3)H, with enhanced molecular chaperone activity and suggest that Tsa1p-SO(3)H is a marker of cumulative oxidative stress in cells.
The essential function of Swc4p - a protein shared by two chromatin-modifying complexes of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae - resides within its N-terminal part.	The Swc4p protein, encoded by an essential gene, is shared by two chromatin-remodeling complexes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells: NuA4 (nucleosome acetyltransferase of H4) and SWR1. The SWR1 complex catalyzes ATP-dependent exchange of the nucleosomal histone H2A for H2AZ (Htz1p). The activity of NuA4 is responsible mainly for the acetylation of the H4 histone but also for the acetylation of H2A and H2AZ. In this work we investigated the role of the Swc4p protein. Using random mutagenesis we isolated a collection of swc4 mutants and showed that the essential function of Swc4p resides in its N-terminal part, within the first 269 amino acids of the 476-amino acid-long protein. We also demonstrated that Swc4p is able to accommodate numerous mutations without losing its functionality under standard growth conditions. However, when swc4 mutants were exposed to methyl methanesulfonate (MMS), hydroxyurea or benomyl, severe growth deficiencies appeared, pointing to an involvement of Swc4p in many chromatin-based processes. The mutants' phenotypes did not result from an impairment of histone acetylation, as in the mutant which bears the shortest isolated variant of truncated Swc4p, the level of overall H4 acetylation was unchanged.
TRF4 is involved in polyadenylation of snRNAs in Drosophila melanogaster.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae poly(A) polymerases Trf4 and Trf5 are involved in an RNA quality control mechanism, where polyadenylated RNAs are degraded by the nuclear exosome. Although Trf4/5 homologue genes are distributed throughout multicellular organisms, their biological roles remain to be elucidated. We isolated here the two homologues of Trf4/5 in Drosophila melanogaster, named DmTRF4-1 and DmTRF4-2, and investigated their biological function. DmTRF4-1 displayed poly(A) polymerase activity in vitro, whereas DmTRF4-2 did not. Gene knockdown of DmTRF4-1 by RNA interference is lethal in flies, as is the case for the trf4 trf5 double mutants. In contrast, disruption of DmTRF4-2 results in viable flies. Cellular localization analysis suggested that DmTRF4-1 localizes in the nucleolus. Abnormal polyadenylation of snRNAs was observed in transgenic flies overexpressing DmTRF4-1 and was slightly increased by the suppression of DmRrp6, the 3'-5' exonuclease of the nuclear exosome. These results suggest that DmTRF4-1 and DmRrp6 are involved in the polyadenylation-mediated degradation of snRNAs in vivo.
De novo sequencing of unique sequence tags for discovery of post-translational modifications of proteins.	De novo sequencing is a spectrum analysis approach for mass spectrometry data to discover post-translational modifications in proteins; however, such an approach is still in its infancy and is still not widely applied to proteomic practices due to its limited reliability. In this work, we describe a de novo sequencing approach for the discovery of protein modifications based on identification of the proteome UStags (Shen, Y.; Toli, N.; Hixson, K. K.; Purvine, S. O.; Pasa-Toli, L.; Qian, W. J.; Adkins, J. N.; Moore, R. J.; Smith, R. D. Anal. Chem. 2008, 80, 1871-1882). The de novo information was obtained from Fourier-transform tandem mass spectrometry data for peptides and polypeptides from a yeast lysate, and the de novo sequences obtained were selected based on filter levels designed to provide a limited yet high quality subset of UStags. The DNA-predicted database protein sequences were then compared to the UStags, and the differences observed across or in the UStags (i.e., the UStags' prefix and suffix sequences and the UStags themselves) were used to infer possible sequence modifications. With this de novo-UStag approach, we uncovered some unexpected variances within several yeast protein sequences due to amino acid mutations and/or multiple modifications to the predicted protein sequences. To determine false discovery rates, two random (false) databases were independently used for sequence matching, and ~3% false discovery rates were estimated for the de novo-UStag approach. The factors affecting the reliability (e.g., existence of de novo sequencing noise residues and redundant sequences) and the sensitivity of the approach were investigated and described. The combined de novo-UStag approach complements the UStag method previously reported by enabling the discovery of new protein modifications.
Architecture and flexibility of the yeast Ndc80 kinetochore complex.	Kinetochores mediate microtubule-chromosome attachment and ensure accurate segregation of sister chromatids. The highly conserved Ndc80 kinetochore complex makes direct contacts with the microtubule and is essential for spindle checkpoint signaling. It contains a long coiled-coil region with globular domains at each end involved in kinetochore localization and microtubule binding, respectively. We have directly visualized the architecture of the yeast Ndc80 complex and found a dramatic kink within the 560-A coiled-coil rod located about 160 A from the larger globular head. Comparison of our electron microscopy images to the structure of the human Ndc80 complex allowed us to position the kink proximal to the microtubule-binding end and to define the conformational range of the complex. The position of the kink coincides with a coiled-coil breaking region conserved across eukaryotes. We hypothesize that the kink in Ndc80 is essential for correct kinetochore geometry and could be part of a tension-sensing mechanism at the kinetochore.
Detergent-associated solution conformations of helical and beta-barrel membrane proteins.	Membrane proteins present major challenges for structural biology. In particular, the production of suitable crystals for high-resolution structural determination continues to be a significant roadblock for developing an atomic-level understanding of these vital cellular systems. The use of detergents for extracting membrane proteins from the native membrane for either crystallization or reconstitution into model lipid membranes for further study is assumed to leave the protein with the proper fold with a belt of detergent encompassing the membrane-spanning segments of the structure. Small-angle X-ray scattering was used to probe the detergent-associated solution conformations of three membrane proteins, namely bacteriorhodopsin (BR), the Ste2p G-protein coupled receptor from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and the Escherichia coli porin OmpF. The results demonstrate that, contrary to the traditional model of a detergent-associated membrane protein, the helical proteins BR and Ste2p are not in the expected, compact conformation and associated with detergent micelles, while the beta-barrel OmpF is indeed embedded in a disk-like micelle in a properly folded state. The comparison provided by the BR and Ste2p, both members of the 7TM family of helical membrane proteins, further suggests that the interhelical interactions between the transmembrane helices of the two proteins differ, such that BR, like other rhodopsins, can properly refold to crystallize, while Ste2p continues to prove resistant to crystallization from an initially detergent-associated state.
Direct observation of correlated interdomain motion in alcohol dehydrogenase.	Interdomain motions in proteins are essential to enable or promote biochemical function. Neutron spin-echo spectroscopy is used to directly observe the domain dynamics of the protein alcohol dehydrogenase. The collective motion of domains as revealed by their coherent form factor relates to the cleft opening dynamics between the binding and the catalytic domains enabling binding and release of the functional important cofactor. The cleft opening mode hardens as a result of an overall stiffening of the domain complex due to the binding of the cofactor.
Dif1 is a DNA-damage-regulated facilitator of nuclear import for ribonucleotide reductase.	The control of dNTP concentrations is critical to the fidelity of DNA synthesis and repair. One level of regulation is through subcellular localization of ribonucleotide reductase. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the small subunit Rnr2-Rnr4 is nuclear, whereas the large subunit Rnr1 is cytoplasmic. In response to S phase or DNA damage, Rnr2-Rnr4 enters the cytoplasm to bind Rnr1, forming an active complex. We previously reported that Wtm1 anchors Rnr2-Rnr4 in the nucleus. Here, we identify DIF1, which regulates localization of Rnr2-Rnr4. Dif1 binds directly to the Rnr2-Rnr4 complex through a conserved Hug domain to drive nuclear import. Dif1 is both cell-cycle and DNA-damage regulated, the latter of which occurs via the Mec1-Dun1 pathway. In response to DNA damage, Dun1 directly phosphorylates Dif1, which both inactivates and degrades Dif1 and allows Rnr2-Rnr4 to become cytoplasmic. We propose that Rnr2-Rnr4 nuclear localization is achieved by a dynamic combination of Wtm1-mediated nuclear retention to limit export and regulated nuclear import through Dif1.
Mrc1 and DNA polymerase epsilon function together in linking DNA replication and the S phase checkpoint.	Yeast Mrc1, ortholog of metazoan Claspin, is both a central component of normal DNA replication forks and a mediator of the S phase checkpoint. We report that Mrc1 interacts with Pol2, the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase epsilon, essential for leading-strand DNA replication and for the checkpoint. In unperturbed cells, Mrc1 interacts independently with both the N-terminal and C-terminal halves of Pol2 (Pol2N and Pol2C). Strikingly, phosphorylation of Mrc1 during the S phase checkpoint abolishes Pol2N binding, but not Pol2C interaction. Mrc1 is required to stabilize Pol2 at replication forks stalled in HU. The bimodal Mrc1/Pol2 interaction may be an additional step in regulating the S phase checkpoint response to DNA damage on the leading strand. We propose that Mrc1, which also interacts with the MCMs, may modulate coupling of polymerization and unwinding at the replication fork.
Ordered assembly of the ESCRT-III complex on endosomes is required to sequester cargo during MVB formation.	The sequential action of the Vps27/HRS complex, ESCRT-I, -II, and -III is required to sort ubiquitinated transmembrane proteins to the lumen of lysosomes via the multivesicular body (MVB) pathway. While Vps27/HRS, ESCRT-I, and -II are recruited to endosomes as preformed complexes, the ESCRT-III subunits Vps20, Snf7, Vps24, and Vps2 only assemble into a complex on endosomes. We have addressed the pathway and the regulation for ESCRT-III assembly. Our findings indicate the ordered assembly of a transient 450 kDa ESCRT-III complex on endosomes. Despite biochemical and structural similarity, each subunit contributes a specific function. Vps20 nucleates transient oligomerization of Snf7, which appears to sequester MVB cargo. Vps24 terminates Snf7 oligomerization by recruiting Vps2, which subsequently engages the AAA-ATPase Vps4 to dissociate ESCRT-III. We propose that the ordered assembly and disassembly of ESCRT-III delineates an MVB sorting domain to sequester cargo and complete the last steps of MVB sorting.
Phosphorylation of the Gal4 DNA-binding domain is essential for activator mono-ubiquitylation and efficient promoter occupancy.	Recent analysis of a Gal4 mutant (Gap71) carrying three point mutations (S22D, K23Q and K25F) in its DNA-binding domain (DBD), has demonstrated that it cannot occupy GAL promoters efficiently in cells and that it is not mono-ubiquitylated, suggesting a functional link between this modification and stable DNA binding in cells. The mechanistic underpinning of this phenotype is that this protein is hypersensitive to a newly discovered activity of the proteasomal ATPases--their ability to actively dissociate transcription factor-DNA complexes after direct interaction with the activation domain. In this paper, we examine the roles of each of the three point mutations contained in Gap71 individually. These experiments have revealed that serine 22 is a site of phosphorylation in the Gal4 DBD and that lysine 23 is essential for S22 phosphorylation, possibly acting as part of the kinase recognition site. Mutation of either residue blocks Gal4 DBD phosphorylation, its subsequent ubiquitylation and compromises the ability of the activator to bind promoter DNA in vivo. These data represent the first report of an essential phosphorylation event that is critical for the activity of this paradigmatic transcription factor.
Molecular-scale force measurement in a coiled-coil peptide dimer by electron spin resonance.	A new method for measuring forces between small protein domains based on double electron-electron resonance (DEER) spectroscopy is demonstrated using a model peptide derived from the alpha-helical coiled-coil leucine zipper of yeast transcriptional activator GCN4. The equilibrium distribution of distances between two nitroxide spin labels rigidly attached to the helices of the dimer was determined by DEER and yielded a closing force of 100 +/- 10 pN between monomers, in excellent agreement with theoretical predictions.
Protein dynamics and conformational disorder in molecular recognition.	Recognition requires protein flexibility because it facilitates conformational rearrangements and induced-fit mechanisms upon target binding. Intrinsic disorder is an extreme on the continuous spectrum of possible protein dynamics and its role in recognition may seem counterintuitive. However, conformational disorder is widely found in many eukaryotic regulatory proteins involved in processes such as signal transduction and transcription. Disordered protein regions may in fact confer advantages over folded proteins in binding. Rapidly interconverting and diverse conformers may create mean electrostatic fields instead of presenting discrete charges. The resultant "polyelectrostatic" interactions allow for the utilization of post-translational modifications as a means to change the net charge and thereby modify the electrostatic interaction of a disordered region. Plasticity of disordered protein states enables steric advantages over folded proteins and allows for unique binding configurations. Disorder may also have evolutionary advantages, as it facilitates alternative splicing, domain shuffling and protein modularity. As proteins exist in a continuous spectrum of disorder, so do their complexes. Indeed, disordered regions in complexes may control the degree of motion between domains, mask binding sites, be targets of post-translational modifications, permit overlapping binding motifs, and enable transient binding of different binding partners, making them excellent candidates for signal integrators and explaining their prevalence in eukaryotic signaling pathways. "Dynamic" complexes arise if more than two transient protein interfaces are involved in complex formation of two binding partners in a dynamic equilibrium. "Disordered" complexes, in contrast, do not involve significant ordering of interacting protein segments but rely exclusively on transient contacts. The nature of these interactions is not well understood yet but advancements in the structural characterization of disordered states will help us gain insights into their function and their implications for health and disease.
Non-linear effects of macromolecular crowding on enzymatic activity of multi-copper oxidase.	Enzymes catalyze biochemical reactions in highly crowded environments where the amount of macromolecules may occupy up to 40% of the volume. Here we report how cell-like conditions tune catalytic parameters for the monomeric multi-copper oxidase, Saccharomyces cerevisiae Fet3p, in vitro. At low amounts of crowding agent, we detect increases in both of K(M) (weaker substrate binding) and k(cat) (improved catalytic efficiency), whereas at higher crowding levels, both parameters were reduced. Presence of crowding agents does not affect Fet3p structural content but increases thermal resistance. The observations are compatible with ordering of a non-optimal substrate-binding site and restricted internal dynamics as a result of excluded volume effects making the protein less structurally 'strained'.
Med8, Med18, and Med20 subunits of the Mediator head domain are interdependent upon each other for folding and complex formation.	We have studied folding and complex formation of the yeast Mediator head-module protein subunits Med8, Med18, and Med20. Using a combination of immunoprecipitation, far-UV circular dichroism, and fluorescence measurements on recombinantly expressed and denatured proteins that were allowed to renature separately or in different combinations, we found that Med8, Med18, and Med20 can fold in different ways to form both soluble monomeric proteins and different distinct subcomplexes. However, the concurrent presence of all three protein subunits during the renaturation process is required for proper folding and trimer complex formation.
The enigmatic role of Mim1 in mitochondrial biogenesis.	The translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane (TOM complex) is a multi-subunit complex that serves as the general entry site for newly synthesized proteins into the organelle. The assembly of this complex is a multi-step process that requires the coordinated action of several proteins. A central, but rather undefined role in this process is played by Mim1, a mitochondrial outer membrane protein. The deletion of MIM1 leads to severe defects in the biogenesis of TOM complex subunits and to altered mitochondrial morphology. The protein is built from an N-terminal cytosolic domain, a central transmembrane segment, and a C-terminal domain facing the intermembrane space. In this review we summarize our current knowledge on the structure-function relationship of Mim1 and discuss some possibilities for its molecular function.
Increase in backbone mobility of the VTS1p-SAM domain on binding to SRE-RNA.	The sterile alpha motif (SAM) domain of VTS1p, a posttranscriptional gene regulator, belongs to a family of SAM domains conserved from yeast to humans. Even though SAM domains were originally classified as protein-protein interaction domains, recently, it was shown that the yeast VTS1p-SAM and the SAM domain of its Drosophila homolog Smaug can specifically recognize RNA hairpins termed Smaug recognition element (SRE). Structural studies of the SRE-RNA complex of VTS1p-SAM revealed that the SAM domain primarily recognizes the shape of the RNA fold induced by the Watson-Crick base-pairing in the RNA pentaloop. Only the central G nucleotide is specifically recognized. The VTS1p-SAM domain recognizes SRE-RNAs with a CNGGN pentaloop where N is any nucleotide. The C1-G4 base pair in the wild type can be replaced by any pair of nucleotides that can form base pairs even though the binding affinity is greatest with a pyrimidine in position 1 and a purine in position 4. The interaction thus combines elements of sequence-specific and non-sequence-specific recognitions. The lack of structural rearrangements in either partner following binding is rather intriguing, suggesting that molecular dynamics may play an important role in imparting relaxed specificity with respect to the exact combination of nucleotides in the loop, except for the central nucleotide. In this work, we extend our previous studies of SRE-RNA interaction with VTS1p, by comparing the dynamics of the VTS1p-SAM domain both in its free form and when bound to SRE-RNA. The 15N relaxation studies of backbone dynamics suggest the presence of a dynamic interaction interface, with residues associated with specific G3 recognition becoming more rigid on RNA binding while other regions attain increased flexibility. The results parallel the observations from our studies of dynamics changes in SRE-RNA upon binding to VTS1p-SAM and shows that molecular dynamics could play a crucial role in modulating binding affinity and possibly contribute to the free energy of the interaction through an entropy-driven mechanism.
Tyrosine phosphorylation by Src within the cavity of the adenine nucleotide translocase 1 regulates ADP/ATP exchange in mitochondria.	Phosphorylation of adenine nucleotide translocator 1 (ANT1) at residue Y194, which is part of the aromatic ladder located within the lumen of the carrier, critically regulates mitochondrial metabolism. Recent data support the concept that members of the Src family of nonreceptor tyrosine kinases are constitutively present in mitochondria and key to regulation of mitochondrial function. Herein, we demonstrate that site mutations of ANT1 (Y190-->F190, Y194-->F194) mimicking dephosphorylation of the aromatic ladder resulted in loss of oxidative growth and ADP/ATP exchange activity in respiration-incompetent yeast expressing mutant chimeric yN-hANT1. ANT1 is phosphorylated at Y194 by the Src family kinase members Src and Lck, and increased phosphorylation is tightly linked to reduced cell injury in preconditioned protected vs. unprotected cardiac mitochondria. Molecular dynamics simulations find the overall structure of the phosphorylated ANT1 stable, but with an increased steric flexibility in the region of the aromatic ladder, matrix loop m2, and four helix-linking regions. Combined with an analysis of the putative cytosolic salt bridge network, we reason that the effect of phosphorylation on transport is likely due to an accelerated transition between the main two conformational states (c<-->m) of the carrier during the transport cycle. Since "aromatic signatures" are typical for other mitochondrial carrier proteins with important biological functions, our results may be more general and applicable to these carriers.
Rap1 in Candida albicans: an unusual structural organization and a critical function in suppressing telomere recombination.	Rap1 (repressor activator protein 1) is a conserved multifunctional protein initially identified as a transcriptional regulator of ribosomal protein genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae but subsequently shown to play diverse functions at multiple chromosomal loci, including telomeres. The function of Rap1 appears to be evolutionarily plastic, especially in the budding yeast lineages. We report here our biochemical and molecular genetic characterizations of Candida albicans Rap1, which exhibits an unusual, miniaturized domain organization in comparison to the S. cerevisiae homologue. We show that in contrast to S. cerevisiae, C. albicans RAP1 is not essential for cell viability but is critical for maintaining normal telomere length and structure. The rap1 null mutant exhibits drastic telomere-length dysregulation and accumulates high levels of telomere circles, which can be largely attributed to aberrant recombination activities at telomeres. Analysis of combination mutants indicates that Rap1 and other telomere proteins mediate overlapping but nonredundant roles in telomere protection. Consistent with the telomere phenotypes of the mutant, C. albicans Rap1 is localized to telomeres in vivo and recognizes the unusual telomere repeat unit with high affinity and sequence specificity in vitro. The DNA-binding Myb domain of C. albicans Rap1 is sufficient to suppress most of the telomere aberrations observed in the null mutant. Notably, we were unable to detect specific binding of C. albicans Rap1 to gene promoters in vivo or in vitro, suggesting that its functions are more circumscribed in this organism. Our findings provide insights on the evolution and mechanistic plasticity of a widely conserved and functionally critical telomere component.
Motif III in superfamily 2 "helicases" helps convert the binding energy of ATP into a high-affinity RNA binding site in the yeast DEAD-box protein Ded1.	Motif III in the putative helicases of superfamily 2 is highly conserved in both its sequence and its structural context. It typically consists of the sequence alcohol-alanine-alcohol (S/T-A-S/T). Historically, it was thought to link ATPase activity with a "helicase" strand displacement activity that disrupts RNA or DNA duplexes. DEAD-box proteins constitute the largest family of superfamily 2; they are RNA-dependent ATPases and ATP-dependent RNA binding proteins that, in some cases, are able to disrupt short RNA duplexes. We made mutations of motif III (S-A-T) in the yeast DEAD-box protein Ded1 and analyzed in vivo phenotypes and in vitro properties. Moreover, we made a tertiary model of Ded1 based on the solved structure of Vasa. We used Ded1 because it has relatively high ATPase and RNA binding activities; it is able to displace moderately stable duplexes at a large excess of substrate. We find that the alanine and the threonine in the second and third positions of motif III are more important than the serine, but that mutations of all three residues have strong phenotypes. We purified the wild-type and various mutants expressed in Escherichia coli. We found that motif III mutations affect the RNA-dependent hydrolysis of ATP (k(cat)), but not the affinity for ATP (K(m)). Moreover, mutations alter and reduce the affinity for single-stranded RNA and subsequently reduce the ability to disrupt duplexes. We obtained intragenic suppressors of the S-A-C mutant that compensate for the mutation by enhancing the affinity for ATP and RNA. We conclude that motif III and the binding energy of gamma-PO(4) of ATP are used to coordinate motifs I, II, and VI and the two RecA-like domains to create a high-affinity single-stranded RNA binding site. It also may help activate the beta,gamma-phosphoanhydride bond of ATP.
Position of the general transcription factor TFIIF within the RNA polymerase II transcription preinitiation complex.	The RNA polymerase (pol) II general transcription factor TFIIF functions at several steps in transcription initiation including preinitiation complex (PIC) formation and start site selection. We find that two structured TFIIF domains bind Pol II at separate locations far from the active site with the TFIIF dimerization domain on the Pol II lobe and the winged helix domain of the TFIIF small subunit Tfg2 above the Pol II protrusion where it may interact with upstream promoter DNA. Binding of the winged helix to the protrusion is PIC specific. Anchoring of these two structured TFIIF domains at separate sites locates an essential and unstructured region of Tfg2 near the Pol II active site cleft where it may interact with flexible regions of Pol II and the general factor TFIIB to promote initiation and start site selection. Consistent with this mechanism, mutations far from the enzyme active site, which alter the binding of either structured TFIIF domains to Pol II, have similar defects in transcription start site usage.
Phosphorylation of the F(1)F(o) ATP synthase beta subunit: functional and structural consequences assessed in a model system.	We previously discovered several phosphorylations to the beta subunit of the mitochondrial F(1)F(o) ATP synthase complex in isolated rabbit myocytes on adenosine treatment, an agent that induces cardioprotection. The role of these phosphorylations is unknown.
Structure and function of yeast glutaredoxin 2 depend on postranslational processing and are related to subcellular distribution.	We have previously shown that glutaredoxin 2 (Grx2) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae localizes at 3 different subcellular compartments, cytosol, mitochondrial matrix and outer membrane, as the result of different postranslational processing of one single gene. Having set the mechanism responsible for this remarkable phenomenon, we have now aimed at defining whether this diversity of subcellular localizations correlates with differences in structure and function of the Grx2 isoforms. We have determined the N-terminal sequence of the soluble mitochondrial matrix Grx2 by mass spectrometry and have determined the exact cleavage site by Mitochondrial Processing Peptidase (MPP). As a consequence of this cleavage, the mitochondrial matrix Grx2 isoform possesses a basic tetrapeptide extension at the N-terminus compared to the cytosolic form. A functional relationship to this structural difference is that mitochondrial Grx2 displays a markedly higher activity in the catalysis of GSSG reduction by the mitochondrial dithiol dihydrolipoamide. We have prepared Grx2 mutants affected on key residues inside the presequence to direct the protein to one single cellular compartment; either the cytosol, the mitochondrial membrane or the matrix and have analyzed their functional phenotypes. Strains expressing Grx2 only in the cytosol are equally sensitive to H(2)O(2) as strains lacking the gene, whereas those expressing Grx2 exclusively in the mitochondrial matrix are more resistant. Mutations on key basic residues drastically affect the cellular fate of the protein, showing that evolutionary diversification of Grx2 structural and functional properties are strictly dependent on the sequence of the targeting signal peptide.
Glycine-rich loop of mitochondrial processing peptidase alpha-subunit is responsible for substrate recognition by a mechanism analogous to mitochondrial receptor Tom20.	Tryptophan fluorescence measurements were used to characterize the local dynamics of the highly conserved glycine-rich loop (GRL) of the mitochondrial processing peptidase (MPP) alpha-subunit in the presence of the substrate precursor. Reporter tryptophan residue was introduced into the GRL of the yeast alpha-MPP (Y299W) or at a proximal site (Y303W). Time-resolved and steady-state fluorescence spectroscopy demonstrated that for Trp299, the primary contact with the yeast malate dehydrogenase precursor evokes a change of the local GRL mobility. Moreover, time-resolved measurements showed that a functionless alpha-MPP with a single-residue deletion in the loop (Y303W/DeltaG292) is defective particularly in the primary contact with substrate. Thus, the GRL was proved to be part of a contact site of the enzyme specifically recognizing the substrate. Regarding the surface exposure and presence of the hydrophobic patches within the GRL, we proposed a functional analogy between the presequence recognition by the hydrophobic binding groove of the Tom20 mitochondrial import receptor and the GRL of the alpha-MPP. A molecular dynamics (MD) simulation of the MPP-substrate peptide complex model was employed to test this hypothesis. The initial positioning and conformation of the substrate peptide in the model fitting were chosen based on the analogy of its interaction with the Tom20 binding groove. MD simulation confirmed the stability of the proposed interaction and showed also a decrease in GRL flexibility in the presence of substrate, in agreement with fluorescence measurements. Moreover, conserved substrate hydrophobic residues in positions +1 and -4 to the cleavage site remain in close contact with the side chains of the GRL during the entire production part of MD simulation as stabilizing points of the hydrophobic interaction. We conclude that the GRL of the MPP alpha-subunit is the crucial evolutional outcome of the presequence recognition by MPP and represents a functional parallel with Tom20 import receptor.
Conformational dynamics and structural plasticity play critical roles in the ubiquitin recognition of a UIM domain.	Ubiquitin-interacting motifs (UIMs) are an important class of protein domains that interact with ubiquitin or ubiquitin-like proteins. These approximately 20-residue-long domains are found in a variety of ubiquitin receptor proteins and serve as recognition modules towards intracellular targets, which may be individual ubiquitin subunits or polyubiquitin chains attached to a variety of proteins. Previous structural studies of interactions between UIMs and ubiquitin have shown that UIMs adopt an extended structure of a single alpha-helix, containing a hydrophobic surface with a conserved sequence pattern that interacts with key hydrophobic residues on ubiquitin. In light of this large body of structural studies, details regarding the presence and the roles of structural dynamics and plasticity are surprisingly lacking. In order to better understand the structural basis of ubiquitin-UIM recognition, we have characterized changes in the structure and dynamics of ubiquitin upon binding of a UIM domain from the yeast Vps27 protein. The solution structure of a ubiquitin-UIM fusion protein designed to study these interactions is reported here and found to consist of a well-defined ubiquitin core and a bipartite UIM helix. Moreover, we have studied the plasticity of the docking interface, as well as global changes in ubiquitin due to UIM binding at the picoseconds-to-nanoseconds and microseconds-to-milliseconds protein motions by nuclear magnetic resonance relaxation. Changes in generalized-order parameters of amide groups show a distinct trend towards increased structural rigidity at the UIM-ubiquitin interface relative to values determined in unbound ubiquitin. Analysis of (15)N Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill relaxation dispersion measurements suggests the presence of two types of motions: one directly related to the UIM-binding interface and the other induced to distal parts of the protein. This study demonstrates a case where localized interactions among protein domains have global effects on protein motions at timescales ranging from picoseconds to milliseconds.
GPI anchoring facilitates propagation and spread of misfolded Sup35 aggregates in mammalian cells.	Prion diseases differ from other amyloid-associated protein misfolding diseases (e.g. Alzheimer's) because they are naturally transmitted between individuals and involve spread of protein aggregation between tissues. Factors underlying these features of prion diseases are poorly understood. Of all protein misfolding disorders, only prion diseases involve the misfolding of a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored protein. To test whether GPI anchoring can modulate the propagation and spread of protein aggregates, a GPI-anchored version of the amyloidogenic yeast protein Sup35NM (Sup35GPI) was expressed in neuronal cells. Treatment of cells with Sup35NM fibrils induced the GPI anchor-dependent formation of self-propagating, detergent-insoluble, protease-resistant, prion-like aggregates of Sup35GPI. Live-cell imaging showed intercellular spread of Sup35GPI aggregation to involve contact between aggregate-positive and aggregate-negative cells and transfer of Sup35GPI from aggregate-positive cells. These data demonstrate GPI anchoring facilitates the propagation and spread of protein aggregation and thus may enhance the transmissibility and pathogenesis of prion diseases relative to other protein misfolding diseases.
The indispensable N-terminal half of eIF3j/HCR1 cooperates with its structurally conserved binding partner eIF3b/PRT1-RRM and with eIF1A in stringent AUG selection.	Despite recent progress in our understanding of the numerous functions of individual subunits of eukaryotic translation initiation factor (eIF) 3, little is known on the molecular level. Using NMR spectroscopy, we determined the first solution structure of an interaction between eIF3 subunits. We revealed that a conserved tryptophan residue in the human eIF3j N-terminal acidic motif (NTA) is held in the helix alpha1 and loop 5 hydrophobic pocket of the human eIF3b RNA recognition motif (RRM). Mutating the corresponding "pocket" residues in its yeast orthologue reduces cellular growth rate, eliminates eIF3j/HCR1 association with eIF3b/PRT1 in vitro and in vivo, affects 40S occupancy of eIF3, and produces a leaky scanning defect indicative of a deregulation of the AUG selection process. Unexpectedly, we found that the N-terminal half of eIF3j/HCR1 containing the NTA is indispensable and sufficient for wild-type growth of yeast cells. Furthermore, we demonstrate that deletion of either j/HCR1 or its N-terminal half only, or mutation of the key tryptophan residues results in the severe leaky scanning phenotype partially suppressible by overexpressed eIF1A, which is thought to stabilize properly formed preinitiation complexes at the correct start codon. These findings indicate that eIF3j/HCR1 remains associated with the scanning preinitiation complexes and does not dissociate from the small ribosomal subunit upon mRNA recruitment, as previously believed. Finally, we provide further support for earlier mapping of the ribosomal binding site for human eIF3j by identifying specific interactions of eIF3j/HCR1 with small ribosomal proteins RPS2 and RPS23 located in the vicinity of the mRNA entry channel. Taken together, we propose that eIF3j/HCR1 closely cooperates with the eIF3b/PRT1 RRM and eIF1A on the ribosome to ensure proper formation of the scanning-arrested conformation required for stringent AUG recognition.
Eukaryotic ribonucleases P/MRP: the crystal structure of the P3 domain.	Ribonuclease (RNase) P is a site-specific endoribonuclease found in all kingdoms of life. Typical RNase P consists of a catalytic RNA component and a protein moiety. In the eukaryotes, the RNase P lineage has split into two, giving rise to a closely related enzyme, RNase MRP, which has similar components but has evolved to have different specificities. The eukaryotic RNases P/MRP have acquired an essential helix-loop-helix protein-binding RNA domain P3 that has an important function in eukaryotic enzymes and distinguishes them from bacterial and archaeal RNases P. Here, we present a crystal structure of the P3 RNA domain from Saccharomyces cerevisiae RNase MRP in a complex with RNase P/MRP proteins Pop6 and Pop7 solved to 2.7 A. The structure suggests similar structural organization of the P3 RNA domains in RNases P/MRP and possible functions of the P3 domains and proteins bound to them in the stabilization of the holoenzymes' structures as well as in interactions with substrates. It provides the first insight into the structural organization of the eukaryotic enzymes of the RNase P/MRP family.
Architecture of the RNA polymerase II-TFIIF complex revealed by cross-linking and mass spectrometry.	Higher-order multi-protein complexes such as RNA polymerase II (Pol II) complexes with transcription initiation factors are often not amenable to X-ray structure determination. Here, we show that protein cross-linking coupled to mass spectrometry (MS) has now sufficiently advanced as a tool to extend the Pol II structure to a 15-subunit, 670 kDa complex of Pol II with the initiation factor TFIIF at peptide resolution. The N-terminal regions of TFIIF subunits Tfg1 and Tfg2 form a dimerization domain that binds the Pol II lobe on the Rpb2 side of the active centre cleft near downstream DNA. The C-terminal winged helix (WH) domains of Tfg1 and Tfg2 are mobile, but the Tfg2 WH domain can reside at the Pol II protrusion near the predicted path of upstream DNA in the initiation complex. The linkers between the dimerization domain and the WH domains in Tfg1 and Tfg2 are located to the jaws and protrusion, respectively. The results suggest how TFIIF suppresses non-specific DNA binding and how it helps to recruit promoter DNA and to set the transcription start site. This work establishes cross-linking/MS as an integrated structure analysis tool for large multi-protein complexes.
Srs2: the "Odd-Job Man" in DNA repair.	Homologous recombination plays a key role in the maintenance of genome integrity, especially during DNA replication and the repair of double-stranded DNA breaks (DSBs). Just a single un-repaired break can lead to aneuploidy, genetic aberrations or cell death. DSBs are caused by a vast number of both endogenous and exogenous agents including genotoxic chemicals or ionizing radiation, as well as through replication of a damaged template DNA or the replication fork collapse. It is essential for cell survival to recognise and process DSBs as well as other toxic intermediates and launch most appropriate repair mechanism. Many helicases have been implicated to play role in these processes, however their detail roles, specificities and co-operativity in the complex protein-protein interaction networks remain unclear. In this review we summarize the current knowledge about Saccharomyces cerevisiae helicase Srs2 and its effect on multiple DNA metabolic processes that generally affect genome stability. It would appear that Srs2 functions as an "Odd-Job Man" in these processes to make sure that the jobs proceed when and where they are needed.
Role of yeast Rad5 and its human orthologs, HLTF and SHPRH in DNA damage tolerance.	In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the Rad6-Rad18 DNA damage tolerance pathway constitutes a major defense system against replication fork blocking DNA lesions. The Rad6-Rad18 ubiquitin-conjugating/ligase complex governs error-free and error-prone translesion synthesis by specialized DNA polymerases, as well as an error-free Rad5-dependent postreplicative repair pathway. For facilitating replication through DNA lesions, translesion synthesis polymerases copy directly from the damaged template, while the Rad5-dependent damage tolerance pathway obtains information from the newly synthesized strand of the undamaged sister duplex. Although genetic data demonstrate the importance of the Rad5-dependent pathway in tolerating DNA damages, there has been little understanding of its mechanism. Also, the conservation of the yeast Rad5-dependent pathway in higher order eukaryotic cells remained uncertain for a long time. Here we summarize findings published in recent years regarding the role of Rad5 in promoting error-free replication of damaged DNA, and we also discuss results obtained with its human orthologs, HLTF and SHPRH.
N-terminal acetylation of cellular proteins creates specific degradation signals.	The retained N-terminal methionine (Met) residue of a nascent protein is often N-terminally acetylated (Nt-acetylated). Removal of N-terminal Met by Met-aminopeptidases frequently leads to Nt-acetylation of the resulting N-terminal alanine (Ala), valine (Val), serine (Ser), threonine (Thr), and cysteine (Cys) residues. Although a majority of eukaryotic proteins (for example, more than 80% of human proteins) are cotranslationally Nt-acetylated, the function of this extensively studied modification is largely unknown. Using the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we found that the Nt-acetylated Met residue could act as a degradation signal (degron), targeted by the Doa10 ubiquitin ligase. Moreover, Doa10 also recognized the Nt-acetylated Ala, Val, Ser, Thr, and Cys residues. Several examined proteins of diverse functions contained these N-terminal degrons, termed AcN-degrons, which are a prevalent class of degradation signals in cellular proteins.
Mechanism of chromatin remodeling.	Results from biochemical and structural studies of the RSC chromatin-remodeling complex prompt a proposal for the remodeling mechanism: RSC binding to the nucleosome releases the DNA from the histone surface and initiates DNA translocation (through one or a small number of DNA base pairs); ATP binding completes translocation, and ATP hydrolysis resets the system. Binding energy thus plays a central role in the remodeling process. RSC may disrupt histone-DNA contacts by affecting histone octamer conformation and through extensive interaction with the DNA. Bulging of the DNA from the octamer surface is possible, and twisting is unavoidable, but neither is the basis of remodeling.
Probing the interactions of carboxy-atractyloside and atractyloside with the yeast mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier.	Mitochondrial ADP/ATP carriers are inhibited by two natural compounds, atractyloside (ATR) or carboxy-atractyloside (CATR), which differ by one carboxylate group. The interactions of the inhibitors with the carrier were investigated by single-molecule force spectroscopy. Transmembrane alpha helices of the ATR-inhibited carrier displayed heterogeneous mechanical and kinetic properties. Whereas alpha helix H2 showed the most brittle mechanical properties and lowest kinetic stability, alpha helix H5 was mechanically the most flexible and possessed a kinetic stability 9 orders of magnitude greater than that of alpha helix H2. In contrast, CATR-binding substantially increased the kinetic stability of alpha helix H2 and tuned the mechanical flexibility of alpha helices H5 and H6. NMR spectroscopy confirmed that the additional carboxylate group of CATR binds to the sixth alpha helix, indicating that the enhanced stability of H2 is mediated via interactions between CATR and H6.
Unconventional secretion of Acb1 is mediated by autophagosomes.	Starving Dictyostelium discoideum cells secrete AcbA, an acyl coenzyme A-binding protein (ACBP) that lacks a conventional signal sequence for entering the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Secretion of AcbA in D. discoideum requires the Golgi-associated protein GRASP. In this study, we report that starvation-induced secretion of Acb1, the Saccharomyces cerevisiae ACBP orthologue, also requires GRASP (Grh1). This highlights the conserved function of GRASP in unconventional secretion. Although genes required for ER to Golgi or Golgi to cell surface transport are not required for Acb1 secretion in yeast, this process involves autophagy genes and the plasma membrane t-SNARE, Sso1. Inhibiting transport to vacuoles does not affect Acb1 secretion. In sum, our experiments reveal a unique secretory pathway where autophagosomes containing Acb1 evade fusion with the vacuole to prevent cargo degradation. We propose that these autophagosome intermediates fuse with recycling endosomes instead to form multivesicular body carriers that then fuse with the plasma membrane to release cargo.
Asymmetric activation of the hsp90 dimer by its cochaperone aha1.	The chaperone Hsp90 is an ATP-dependent, dimeric molecular machine regulated by several cochaperones, including inhibitors and the unique ATPase activator Aha1. Here, we analyzed the mechanism of the Aha1-mediated acceleration of Hsp90 ATPase activity and identified the interaction surfaces of both proteins using multidimensional NMR techniques. For maximum activation of Hsp90, the two domains of Aha1 bind to sites in the middle and N-terminal domains of Hsp90 in a sequential manner. This binding induces the kinetically unfavored N terminally dimerized state of Hsp90, which primes for the hydrolysis-competent conformation. Surprisingly, this activation mechanism is asymmetric. The presence of one Aha1 molecule per Hsp90 dimer is sufficient to bridge the two subunits and to fully stimulate Hsp90 ATPase activity. This seems to functionalize the two subunits of the Hsp90 dimer in different ways, in that one subunit can be used for conformational ATPase regulation and the other for substrate protein processing.
Unconventional ubiquitin recognition by the ubiquitin-binding motif within the Y family DNA polymerases iota and Rev1.	Translesion synthesis is an essential cell survival strategy to promote replication after DNA damage. The accumulation of Y family polymerases (pol) iota and Rev1 at the stalled replication machinery is mediated by the ubiquitin-binding motifs (UBMs) of the polymerases and enhanced by PCNA monoubiquitination. We report the solution structures of the C-terminal UBM of human pol iota and its complex with ubiquitin. Distinct from other ubiquitin-binding domains, the UBM binds to the hydrophobic surface of ubiquitin centered at L8. Accordingly, mutation of L8A, but not I44A, of ubiquitin abolishes UBM binding. Human pol iota contains two functional UBMs, both contributing to replication foci formation. In contrast, only the second UBM of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rev1 binds to ubiquitin and is essential for Rev1-dependent cell survival and mutagenesis. Point mutations disrupting the UBM-ubiquitin interaction also impair the accumulation of pol iota in replication foci and Rev1-mediated DNA damage tolerance in vivo.
A central role for the WH2 domain of Srv2/CAP in recharging actin monomers to drive actin turnover in vitro and in vivo.	Cellular processes propelled by actin polymerization require rapid disassembly of filaments, and then efficient recycling of ADF/cofilin-bound ADP-actin monomers back to an assembly-competent ATP-bound state. How monomer recharging is regulated in vivo is still not well understood, but recent work suggests the involvement of the ubiquitous actin-monomer binding protein Srv2/CAP. To better understand Srv2/CAP mechanism, we explored the contribution of its WH2 domain, the function of which has remained highly elusive. We found that the WH2 domain binds to actin monomers and, unlike most other WH2 domains, exhibits similar binding affinity for ATP-actin and ADP-actin (K(d) approximately 1.5 microM). Mutations in the WH2 domain that impair actin binding disrupt the ability of purified full-length Srv2/CAP to catalyze nucleotide exchange on ADF/cofilin-bound actin monomers and accelerate actin turnover in vitro. The same mutations impair Srv2/CAP function in vivo in regulating actin organization, cell growth, and cell morphogenesis. Thus, normal cell growth and organization depend on the ability of Srv2/CAP to recharge actin monomers, and the WH2 domain plays a central role in this process. Our data also reveal that while most isolated WH2 domains inhibit nucleotide exchange on actin, WH2 domains in the context of intact proteins can help promote nucleotide exchange.
Protein folding sculpting evolutionary change.	Our work suggests that the forces that govern protein folding exert a profound effect on how genotypes are translated into phenotypes and that this in turn has strong effects on evolutionary processes. Molecular chaperones, also known as "heat-shock proteins" (Hsps), promote the correct folding and maturation of many other proteins in the cell. Hsp90 is an abundant and highly specialized chaperone that works on a particularly interesting group of client proteins: metastable signal transducers that are key regulators of a broad spectrum of biological processes. Such proteins often have evolved to finish folding only when they have received a specific signal, such as the binding of a ligand or a posttranslational modification. Importantly, the folding of Hsp90 clients is particularly sensitive to changes in the external and internal environment of the cell. Therefore, Hsp90 is uniquely positioned to couple environmental contingencies to the evolution of new traits. Our work has helped to define two mechanisms by which Hsp90 might influence the acquisition of new phenotypes. First, by robustly maintaining signaling pathways, Hsp90 can buffer the effects of mutations in those pathways, allowing the storage of cryptic genetic variation that is released by stress. In this case, when the Hsp90 buffer is compromised by environmental stress, new traits appear. These traits can also be assimilated, so that they become manifest even in the absence of stress, when genetic recombination and selection enrich causative variants in subsequent generations. Second, Hsp90 can potentiate the effects of genetic variation, allowing new mutations to produce immediate phenotypes. In this case, when Hsp90 function is compromised, new traits are lost. These traits can also be assimilated, so that they are maintained under environmental stress, but this is achieved through new mutations. We have discovered these powerful evolutionary mechanisms in fruit flies, mustard plants, and fungi, but expect them to operate in all eukaryotes. Another line of work relating protein folding to the evolution of new traits involves protein-based hereditary elements known as prions. These produce changes in phenotype through heritable, self-perpetuating changes in protein conformation. Because changes in protein homeostasis occur with environmental stress, prions can be cured or induced by stress, creating heritable new phenotypes that depend on the genetic variation present in the organism. Both prions and Hsp90 provide plausible mechanisms for allowing genetic diversity and fluctuating environments to fuel the pace of evolutionary change. The multiple mechanisms by which protein folding can influence the evolution of new traits provide both a new paradigm for understanding rapid, stepwise evolution and a framework for targeted therapeutic interventions.
Structural bases of dimerization of yeast telomere protein Cdc13 and its interaction with the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase .	Budding yeast Cdc13-Stn1-Ten1 (CST) complex plays an essential role in telomere protection and maintenance, and has been proposed to be a telomere-specific replication protein A (RPA)-like complex. Previous genetic and structural studies revealed a close resemblance between Stn1-Ten1 and RPA32-RPA14. However, the relationship between Cdc13 and RPA70, the largest subunit of RPA, has remained unclear. Here, we report the crystal structure of the N-terminal OB (oligonucleotide/oligosaccharide binding) fold of Cdc13. Although Cdc13 has an RPA70-like domain organization, the structures of Cdc13 OB folds are significantly different from their counterparts in RPA70, suggesting that they have distinct evolutionary origins. Furthermore, our structural and biochemical analyses revealed unexpected dimerization by the N-terminal OB fold and showed that homodimerization is probably a conserved feature of all Cdc13 proteins. We also uncovered the structural basis of the interaction between the Cdc13 N-terminal OB fold and the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase  (Pol1), and demonstrated a role for Cdc13 dimerization in Pol1 binding. Analysis of the phenotypes of mutants defective in Cdc13 dimerization and Cdc13-Pol1 interaction revealed multiple mechanisms by which dimerization regulates telomere lengths in vivo. Collectively, our findings provide novel insights into the mechanisms and evolution of Cdc13.
Toward understanding the mechanism of action of the yeast multidrug resistance transporter Pdr5p: a molecular modeling study.	Pleotropic drug resistant protein 5 (Pdr5p) is a plasma membrane ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter and the major drug efflux pump in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The Pdr5p family of fungal transporters possesses a number of structural features significantly different from other modeled or crystallized ABC transporters, which include a reverse topology, an atypical ATP-binding site, a very low sequence similarity in the transmembrane section and long linkers between domains. These features present a considerable hurdle in molecular modeling studies of these important transporters. Here, we report the creation of an atomic model of Pdr5p based on a combination of homology modeling and ab initio methods, incorporating information from consensus transmembrane segment prediction, residue lipophilicity, and sequence entropy. Reported mutations in the transmembrane substrate-binding pocket that altered drug-resistance were used to validate the model, and one mutation that changed the communication pattern between transmembrane and nucleotide-binding domains was used in model improvement. The predictive power of the model was demonstrated experimentally by the increased sensitivity of yeast mutants to clotrimazole having alanine substitutions for Thr1213 and Gln1253, which are predicted to be in the substrate-binding pocket, without reducing the amount of Pdr5p in the plasma membrane. The quality and reliability of our model are discussed in the context of various approaches used for modeling different parts of the structure.
Recognition of transcription termination signal by the nuclear polyadenylated RNA-binding (NAB) 3 protein.	Non-coding RNA polymerase II transcripts are processed by the poly(A)-independent termination pathway that requires the Nrd1 complex. The Nrd1 complex includes two RNA-binding proteins, the nuclear polyadenylated RNA-binding (Nab) 3 and the nuclear pre-mRNA down-regulation (Nrd) 1 that bind their specific termination elements. Here we report the solution structure of the RNA-recognition motif (RRM) of Nab3 in complex with a UCUU oligonucleotide, representing the Nab3 termination element. The structure shows that the first three nucleotides of UCUU are accommodated on the -sheet surface of Nab3 RRM, but reveals a sequence-specific recognition only for the central cytidine and uridine. The specific contacts we identified are important for binding affinity in vitro as well as for yeast viability. Furthermore, we show that both RNA-binding motifs of Nab3 and Nrd1 alone bind their termination elements with a weak affinity. Interestingly, when Nab3 and Nrd1 form a heterodimer, the affinity to RNA is significantly increased due to the cooperative binding. These findings are in accordance with the model of their function in the poly(A) independent termination, in which binding to the combined and/or repetitive termination elements elicits efficient termination.
Ama1p-activated anaphase-promoting complex regulates the destruction of Cdc20p during meiosis II.	The execution of meiotic divisions in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is regulated by anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C)-mediated protein degradation. During meiosis, the APC/C is activated by association with Cdc20p or the meiosis-specific activator Ama1p. We present evidence that, as cells exit from meiosis II, APC/C(Ama1) mediates Cdc20p destruction. APC/C(Ama1) recognizes two degrons on Cdc20p, the destruction box and destruction degron, with either domain being sufficient to mediate Cdc20p destruction. Cdc20p does not need to associate with the APC/C to bind Ama1p or be destroyed. Coimmunoprecipitation analyses showed that the diverged amino-terminal region of Ama1p recognizes both Cdc20p and Clb1p, a previously identified substrate of APC/C(Ama1). Domain swap experiments revealed that the C-terminal WD region of Cdh1p, when fused to the N-terminal region of Ama1p, could direct most of Ama1p functions, although at a reduced level. In addition, this fusion protein cannot complement the spore wall defect in ama1 strains, indicating that substrate specificity is also derived from the WD repeat domain. These findings provide a mechanism to temporally down-regulate APC/C(Cdc20) activity as the cells complete meiosis II and form spores.
Mitotic exit control of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ndr/LATS kinase Cbk1 regulates daughter cell separation after cytokinesis.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell division ends with destruction of a septum deposited during cytokinesis; this must occur only after the structure's construction is complete. Genes involved in septum destruction are induced by the transcription factor Ace2, which is activated by the kinase Cbk1, an Ndr/LATS-related protein that functions in a system related to metazoan hippo pathways. Phosphorylation of a conserved hydrophobic motif (HM) site regulates Cbk1; at peak levels in late mitosis we found that approximately 3% of Cbk1 carries this modification. HM site phosphorylation prior to mitotic exit occurs in response to activation of the FEAR (Cdc fourteen early anaphase release) pathway. However, HM site phosphorylation is not sufficient for Cbk1 to act on Ace2: the kinase is also negatively regulated prior to cytokinesis, likely by cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) phosphorylation. Cbk1 cannot phosphorylate Ace2 until after mitotic exit network (MEN)-initiated release of the phosphatase Cdc14. Treatment of Cbk1 with Cdc14 in vitro does not increase its intrinsic enzymatic activity, but Cdc14 is required for Cbk1 function in vivo. Thus, we propose that Cdc14 coordinates cell separation with mitotic exit via FEAR-initiated phosphorylation of the Cbk1 HM site and MEN-activated reversal of mitotic CDK phosphorylations that block both Cbk1 and Ace2 function.
Identification of cyclophilin-40-interacting proteins reveals potential cellular function of cyclophilin-40.	Cyclophilin-40 (CyP40) is part of the immunophilin family and is found in Hsp90-containing protein complexes. We were interested in identifying proteins that interact with CyP40. CyP40-interacting proteins in HeLa cells were identified using the tandem affinity purification approach. Adenovirus expressing human CyP40 protein (Ad-CyP40), fused with streptavidin and calmodulin binding peptides at the N terminus, was generated. Proteins were separated on a sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis gel after tandem affinity purification. Here 10 silver-stained protein bands that were enriched in the Ad-CyP40-infected lysate and the corresponding regions in the control lysate were excised, digested by trypsin, and identified by tandem mass spectrometric analysis. Of 11 interacting proteins that were identified, 4 (RACK1, Ku70, RPS3, and NF45) were expressed in rabbit reticulocyte lysate, bacteria, and MCF-7 cells. We confirmed that these proteins interact with CyP40. We observed that RACK1 suppressed the cobalt chloride-induced, hypoxia response element-dependent luciferase activity in MCF-7 cells but not in MCF-7 stable cells expressing approximately 10% of the cellular CyP40 content. In addition, RACK1 reduced the HIF-1 protein accumulation after cobalt chloride treatment, which was not observed when the CyP40 content was down-regulated. Collectively, we conclude that reduction of the HIF-1  protein by RACK1 is CyP40-mediated.
A leukotriene A4 hydrolase-related aminopeptidase from yeast undergoes induced fit upon inhibitor binding.	Vertebrate leukotriene A(4) hydrolases are bifunctional zinc metalloenzymes with an epoxide hydrolase and an aminopeptidase activity. In contrast, highly homologous enzymes from lower organisms only have the aminopeptidase activity. From sequence comparisons, it is not clear why this difference occurs. In order to obtain more information on the evolutionary relationship between these enzymes and their activities, the structure of a closely related leucine aminopeptidase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae that only shows a very low epoxide hydrolase activity was determined. To investigate the molecular architecture of the active site, the structures of both the native protein and the protein in complex with the aminopeptidase inhibitor bestatin were solved. These structures show a more spacious active site, and the protected cavity in which the labile substrate leukotriene A(4) is bound in the human enzyme is partially obstructed and in other parts is more solvent accessible. Furthermore, the enzyme undergoes induced fit upon binding of the inhibitor bestatin, leading to a movement of the C-terminal domain. The main triggers for the domain movement are a conformational change of Tyr312 and a subtle change in backbone conformation of the PYGAMEN fingerprint region for peptide substrate recognition. This leads to a change in the hydrogen-bonding network pulling the C-terminal domain into a different position. Inasmuch as bestatin is a structural analogue of a leucyl dipeptide and may be regarded as a transition state mimic, our results imply that the enzyme undergoes induced fit during substrate binding and turnover.
Domains of Tra1 important for activator recruitment and transcription coactivator functions of SAGA and NuA4 complexes.	The Tra1 protein is a direct transcription activator target that is essential for coactivator function of both the SAGA and NuA4 histone acetyltransferase (HAT) complexes. The 400-kDa Saccharomyces cerevisiae Tra1 polypeptide and its human counterpart TRRAP contain 67 or 68 tandem -helical HEAT and TPR protein repeats that extend from the N terminus to the conserved yet catalytically inactive phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) domain. We generated a series of mutations spanning the length of the protein and assayed for defects in transcription, coactivator recruitment, and histone acetylation at SAGA- and NuA4-dependent genes. Inviable TRA1 mutants all showed defects in SAGA and NuA4 complex stability, suggesting that similar surfaces of Tra1 mediate assembly of these two very different coactivator complexes. Nearly all of the viable Tra1 mutants showed transcription defects that fell into one of three classes: (i) defective recruitment to promoters, (ii) reduced stability of the SAGA and NuA4 HAT modules, or (iii) normal recruitment of Tra1-associated subunits but reduced HAT activity in vivo. Our results show that Tra1 recruitment at Gcn4-dependent and Rap1-dependent promoters requires the same regions of Tra1 and that separate regions of Tra1 contribute to the HAT activity and stability of the SAGA and NuA4 HAT modules.
Addressing trypsin bias in large scale (phospho)proteome analysis by size exclusion chromatography and secondary digestion of large post-trypsin peptides.	In the vast majority of bottom-up proteomics studies, protein digestion is performed using only mammalian trypsin. Although it is clearly the best enzyme available, the sole use of trypsin rarely leads to complete sequence coverage, even for abundant proteins. It is commonly assumed that this is because many tryptic peptides are either too short or too long to be identified by RPLC-MS/MS. We show through in silico analysis that 20-30% of the total sequence of three proteomes (Schizosaccharomyces pombe, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Homo sapiens) is expected to be covered by Large post-Trypsin Peptides (LpTPs) with M(r) above 3000 Da. We then established size exclusion chromatography to fractionate complex yeast tryptic digests into pools of peptides based on size. We found that secondary digestion of LpTPs followed by LC-MS/MS analysis leads to a significant increase in identified proteins and a 32-50% relative increase in average sequence coverage compared to trypsin digestion alone. Application of the developed strategy to analyze the phosphoproteomes of S. pombe and of a human cell line identified a significant fraction of novel phosphosites. Overall our data indicate that specific targeting of LpTPs can complement standard bottom-up workflows to reveal a largely neglected portion of the proteome.
Crystal structure of SUMO-modified proliferating cell nuclear antigen.	Eukaryotic proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is a replication accessory protein that functions in DNA replication, repair, and recombination. The various functions of PCNA are regulated by posttranslational modifications including mono-ubiquitylation, which promotes translesion synthesis, and sumoylation, which inhibits recombination. To understand how SUMO modification regulates PCNA, we generated a split SUMO-modified PCNA protein and showed that it supports cell viability and stimulates DNA polymerase  activity. We then determined its X-ray crystal structure and found that SUMO occupies a position on the back face of the PCNA ring, which is distinct from the position occupied by ubiquitin in the structure of ubiquitin-modified PCNA. We propose that the back of PCNA has evolved to be a site of regulation that can be easily modified without disrupting ongoing reactions on the front of PCNA, such as normal DNA replication. Moreover, these modifications likely allow PCNA to function as a tool belt, whereby proteins can be recruited to the replication machinery via the back of PCNA and be held in reserve until needed.
Solution structure of Rap1 BRCT domain from Saccharomyces cerevisiae reveals a novel fold.	Rap1 (repressor-activator protein 1) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, containing a BRCT domain at its N-terminus, is a multifunctional protein that controls telomere function, silencing, and the activation of glycolytic and ribosomal protein genes. In this work, we determined the solution structure of Rap1 BRCT domain, which contains three -strands and three -helices. Structural comparison indicated that Rap1 BRCT domain adopts a global fold similar to other BRCT domains, implying some common structural aspects of BRCT domain family. On the other hand, Rap1 BRCT domain displays structural characteristics significantly different from other BRCT domains in that Rap1 BRCT domain adopts a rather flexible conformation with less secondary structure elements, revealing a novel fold of the BRCT domain family.
Determinants of Nam8-dependent splicing of meiotic pre-mRNAs.	Nam8, a component of yeast U1 snRNP, is optional for mitotic growth but required during meiosis, because Nam8 collaborates with Mer1 to promote splicing of essential meiotic mRNAs AMA1, MER2 and MER3. Here, we identify SPO22 and PCH2 as novel targets of Nam8-dependent meiotic splicing. Whereas SPO22 splicing is co-dependent on Mer1, PCH2 is not. The SPO22 intron has a non-consensus 5' splice site (5'SS) that dictates its Nam8/Mer1-dependence. SPO22 splicing relies on Mer1 recognition, via its KH domain, of an intronic enhancer 5'-AYACCCUY. Mutagenesis of KH and the enhancer highlights Arg214 and Gln243 and the CCC triplet as essential for Mer1 activity. The Nam8-dependent PCH2 pre-mRNA has a consensus 5'SS and lacks a Mer1 enhancer. For PCH2, a long 5' exon and a non-consensus intron branchpoint dictate Nam8-dependence. Our results implicate Nam8 in two distinct meiotic splicing regulons. Nam8 is composed of three RRM domains, flanked by N-terminal leader and C-terminal tail segments. The leader, tail and RRM1 are dispensable for splicing meiotic targets and unnecessary for vegetative Nam8 function in multiple synthetic lethal genetic backgrounds. Nam8 activity is enfeebled by alanine mutations in the putative RNA binding sites of the RRM2 and RRM3 domains.
An intrinsically disordered C terminus allows the La protein to assist the biogenesis of diverse noncoding RNA precursors.	The La protein binds the 3' ends of many newly synthesized noncoding RNAs, protecting these RNAs from nucleases and influencing folding, maturation, and ribonucleoprotein assembly. Although 3' end binding by La involves the N-terminal La domain and adjacent RNA recognition motif (RRM), the mechanisms by which La stabilizes diverse RNAs from nucleases and assists subsequent events in their biogenesis are unknown. Here we report that a conserved feature of La proteins, an intrinsically disordered C terminus, is required for the accumulation of certain noncoding RNA precursors and for the role of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae La protein Lhp1p in assisting formation of correctly folded pre-tRNA anticodon stems in vivo. Footprinting experiments using purified Lhp1p reveal that the C terminus is required to protect a pre-tRNA anticodon stem from chemical modification. Although the C terminus of Lhp1p is hypersensitive to proteases in vitro, it becomes protease-resistant upon binding pre-tRNAs, U6 RNA, or pre-5S rRNA. Thus, while high affinity binding to 3' ends requires the La domain and RRM, a conformationally flexible C terminus allows La to interact productively with a diversity of noncoding RNA precursors. We propose that intrinsically disordered domains adjacent to well characterized RNA-binding motifs in other promiscuous RNA-binding proteins may similarly contribute to the ability of these proteins to influence the cellular fates of multiple distinct RNA targets.
Splitting of H3-H4 tetramers at transcriptionally active genes undergoing dynamic histone exchange.	Nucleosome deposition occurs on newly synthesized DNA during DNA replication and on transcriptionally active genes via nucleosome-remodeling complexes recruited by activator proteins and elongating RNA polymerase II. It has been long believed that histone deposition involves stable H3-H4 tetramers, such that newly deposited nucleosomes do not contain H3 and H4 molecules with their associated histone modifications from preexisting nucleosomes. However, biochemical analyses and recent experiments in mammalian cells have raised the idea that preexisting H3-H4 tetramers might split into dimers, resulting in mixed nucleosomes composed of "old" and "new" histones. It is unknown to what extent different genomic loci might utilize such a mechanism and under which circumstances. Here, we address whether tetramer splitting occurs in a locus-specific manner by using sequential chromatin immunoprecipitation of mononucleosomes from yeast cells containing two differentially tagged versions of H3 that are expressed "old" and "new" histones. At many genomic loci, we observe little or no nucleosomal cooccupancy of old and new H3, indicating that tetramer splitting is generally infrequent. However, cooccupancy is detected at highly active genes, which have a high rate of histone exchange. Thus, DNA replication largely results in nucleosomes bearing exclusively old or new H3-H4, thereby precluding the acquisition of new histone modifications based on preexisting modifications within the same nucleosome. In contrast, tetramer splitting, dimer exchange, and nucleosomes with mixed H3-H4 tetramers occur at highly active genes, presumably linked to rapid histone exchange associated with robust transcription.
Nascent transcript sequencing visualizes transcription at nucleotide resolution.	Recent studies of transcription have revealed a level of complexity not previously appreciated even a few years ago, both in the intricate use of post-initiation control and the mass production of rapidly degraded transcripts. Dissection of these pathways requires strategies for precisely following transcripts as they are being produced. Here we present an approach (native elongating transcript sequencing, NET-seq), based on deep sequencing of 3' ends of nascent transcripts associated with RNA polymerase, to monitor transcription at nucleotide resolution. Application of NET-seq in Saccharomyces cerevisiae reveals that although promoters are generally capable of divergent transcription, the Rpd3S deacetylation complex enforces strong directionality to most promoters by suppressing antisense transcript initiation. Our studies also reveal pervasive polymerase pausing and backtracking throughout the body of transcripts. Average pause density shows prominent peaks at each of the first four nucleosomes, with the peak location occurring in good agreement with in vitro biophysical measurements. Thus, nucleosome-induced pausing represents a major barrier to transcriptional elongation in vivo.
Bro1 binding to Snf7 regulates ESCRT-III membrane scission activity in yeast.	Endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRTs) promote the invagination of vesicles into the lumen of endosomes, the budding of enveloped viruses, and the separation of cells during cytokinesis. These processes share a topologically similar membrane scission event facilitated by ESCRT-III assembly at the cytosolic surface of the membrane. The Snf7 subunit of ESCRT-III in yeast binds directly to an auxiliary protein, Bro1. Like ESCRT-III, Bro1 is required for the formation of intralumenal vesicles at endosomes, but its role in membrane scission is unknown. We show that overexpression of Bro1 or its N-terminal Bro1 domain that binds Snf7 enhances the stability of ESCRT-III by inhibiting Vps4-mediated disassembly in vivo and in vitro. This stabilization effect correlates with a reduced frequency in the detachment of intralumenal vesicles as observed by electron tomography, implicating Bro1 as a regulator of ESCRT-III disassembly and membrane scission activity.
A hamiltonian replica exchange method for building protein-protein interfaces applied to a leucine zipper.	Leucine zippers consist of alpha helical monomers dimerized (or oligomerized) into alpha superhelical structures known as coiled coils. Forming the correct interface of a dimer from its monomers requires an exploration of configuration space focused on the side chains of one monomer that must interdigitate with sites on the other monomer. The aim of this work is to generate good interfaces in short simulations starting from separated monomers. Methods are developed to accomplish this goal based on an extension of a previously introduced [Su and Cukier, J. Phys. Chem. B 113, 9595, (2009)] hamiltonian temperature replica exchange method (HTREM), which scales the hamiltonian in both potential and kinetic energies that was used for the simulation of dimer melting curves. The new method, HTREM_MS (MS designates mean square), focused on interface formation, adds restraints to the hamiltonians for all but the physical system, which is characterized by the normal molecular dynamics force field at the desired temperature. The restraints in the nonphysical systems serve to prevent the monomers from separating too far, and have the dual aims of enhancing the sampling of close in configurations and breaking unwanted correlations in the restrained systems. The method is applied to a 31-residue truncation of the 33-residue leucine zipper (GCN4-p1) of the yeast transcriptional activator GCN4. The monomers are initially separated by a distance that is beyond their capture length. HTREM simulations show that the monomers oscillate between dimerlike and monomerlike configurations, but do not form a stable interface. HTREM_MS simulations result in the dimer interface being faithfully reconstructed on a 2 ns time scale. A small number of systems (one physical and two restrained with modified potentials and higher effective temperatures) are sufficient. An in silico mutant that should not dimerize because it lacks charged residues that provide electrostatic stabilization of the dimer does not with HTREM_MS, giving confidence in the method. The interface formation time scale is sufficiently short that using HTREM_MS as a screening tool to validate leucine zipper design methods may be feasible.
Subunit organization and Rab interactions of Vps-C protein complexes that control endolysosomal membrane traffic.	Traffic through late endolysosomal compartments is regulated by sequential signaling of small G proteins of the Rab5 and Rab7 families. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae Vps-C protein complexes CORVET (class C core vacuole/endosome tethering complex) and HOPS (homotypic fusion and protein transport) interact with endolysosomal Rabs to coordinate their signaling activities. To better understand these large and intricate complexes, we performed interaction surveys to assemble domain-level interaction topologies for the eight Vps-C subunits. We identified numerous intersubunit interactions and up to six Rab-binding sites. Functional modules coordinate the major Rab interactions within CORVET and HOPS. The CORVET-specific subunits, Vps3 and Vps8, form a subcomplex and physically and genetically interact with the Rab5 orthologue Vps21. The HOPS-specific subunits, Vps39 and Vps41, also form a subcomplex. Both subunits bind the Rab7 orthologue Ypt7, but with distinct nucleotide specificities. The in vivo functions of four RING-like domains within Vps-C subunits were analyzed and shown to have distinct functions in endolysosomal transport. Finally, we show that the CORVET- and HOPS-specific subunits Vps3 and Vps39 bind the Vps-C core through a common region within the Vps11 C-terminal domain (CTD). Biochemical and genetic experiments demonstrate the importance of these regions, revealing the Vps11 CTD as a key integrator of Vps-C complex assembly, Rab signaling, and endosomal and lysosomal traffic.
Membrane-coating lattice scaffolds in the nuclear pore and vesicle coats: commonalities, differences, challenges.	The nuclear pore complex (NPC) regulates all traffic between the cytoplasm and the nucleus. It is a large protein assembly composed of multiple copies of 30 nucleoporins (nups). Structural studies of the NPC have been limited by its considerable size and complexity. Progress toward understanding the structure of this nanomachine has benefited from its modular nature, which allows for this 40-60 MDa assembly to be broken down into subcomplexes that can be studied individually. While recent work by both crystallographers and electron microscopists has greatly enhanced our model of the NPC, the resolution gap between crystal and EM structures remains too large to confidently place individual proteins within the context of the fully assembled NPC. In an effort to arrive at a veritable model of the NPC, we solved the structure of several scaffold nups and defined the ancestral coatomer element (ACE1) common to a set of nucleoporins and COPII vesicle coat proteins. Subsequently, we proposed a lattice-like model of the NPC, analogous to the COPII lattice, in which ACE1 proteins form the edge elements and -propellers form the vertex elements. Here, we review our recent studies, speculate on how interactions between subcomplexes of the NPC are mediated, and outline the steps and challenges that lay ahead on the path to understanding this enormous assembly in molecular detail.
The relationship of prions and translation.	Prions are infectious proteins, without the need for an accompanying nucleic acid. Nonetheless, there are connections of prions with translation and RNA, which we explore here. Most prions are based on self-propagating amyloids. The yeast [PSI+] prion is an amyloid of Sup35p, a subunit of the translation termination factor. The normal function of the Sup35p prion domain is in shortening the 3 polyA of mRNAs and thus in mRNA turnover. The [ISP+] prion is so named because it produces antisuppression, the opposite of the effect of [PSI+]. Another connection of prions with translation is the influence on prion propagation and generation of ribosome-associated chaperones, the Ssbs, and a chaperone activity intrinsic to the 60S ribosomal subunits.
Phosphate-responsive signaling pathway is a novel component of NAD+ metabolism in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) is an essential cofactor involved in various cellular biochemical reactions. To date the signaling pathways that regulate NAD(+) metabolism remain unclear due to the dynamic nature and complexity of the NAD(+) metabolic pathways and the difficulty of determining the levels of the interconvertible pyridine nucleotides. Nicotinamide riboside (NmR) is a key pyridine metabolite that is excreted and re-assimilated by yeast and plays important roles in the maintenance of NAD(+) pool. In this study we establish a NmR-specific reporter system and use it to identify yeast mutants with altered NmR/NAD(+) metabolism. We show that the phosphate-responsive signaling (PHO) pathway contributes to control NAD(+) metabolism. Yeast strains with activated PHO pathway show increases in both the release rate and internal concentration of NmR. We further identify Pho8, a PHO-regulated vacuolar phosphatase, as a potential NmR production factor. We also demonstrate that Fun26, a homolog of human ENT (equilibrative nucleoside transporter), localizes to the vacuolar membrane and establishes the size of the vacuolar and cytosolic NmR pools. In addition, the PHO pathway responds to depletion of cellular nicotinic acid mononucleotide (NaMN) and mediates nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN) catabolism, thereby contributing to both NmR salvage and phosphate acquisition. Therefore, NaMN is a putative molecular link connecting the PHO signaling and NAD(+) metabolic pathways. Our findings may contribute to the understanding of the molecular basis and regulation of NAD(+) metabolism in higher eukaryotes.
Solution structure of the Taf14 YEATS domain and its roles in cell growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Chromatin modifications play important roles in cellular biological process. A novel conserved domain family, YEATS, has been discovered in a variety of eukaryotic species ranging from yeasts to humans. Taf14, which is involved in a few protein complexes of chromatin remodelling and gene transcription, and is essential for keeping chromosome stability, regular cell growth and transcriptional regulation, contains a YEATS domain at its N-terminus. In the present study, we determined the solution structure of the Taf14 YEATS domain using NMR spectroscopy. The Taf14 YEATS domain adopts a global fold of an elongated -sandwich, similar to the Yaf9 YEATS domain. However, the Taf14 YEATS domain differs significantly from the Yaf9 YEATS domain in some aspects, which might indicate different structural classes of the YEATS domain family. Functional studies indicate that the YEATS domain is critical for the function of Taf14 in inhibiting cell growth under stress conditions. In addition, our results show that the C-terminus of Taf14 is responsible for its interaction with Sth1, which is an essential component of the RSC complex. Taken together, this implies that Taf14 is involved in transcriptional activation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the YEATS domain of Taf14 might play a negative role in cell growth.
Analysis of membrane topology and identification of essential residues for the yeast endoplasmic reticulum inositol acyltransferase Gwt1p.	Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) is a post-translational modification that anchors cell surface proteins to the plasma membrane, and GPI modifications occur in all eukaryotes. Biosynthesis of GPI starts on the cytoplasmic face of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane, and GPI precursors flip from the cytoplasmic side to the luminal side of the ER, where biosynthesis of GPI precursors is completed. Gwt1p and PIG-W are inositol acyltransferases that transfer fatty acyl chains to the inositol moiety of GPI precursors in yeast and mammalian cells, respectively. To ascertain whether flipping across the ER membrane occurs before or after inositol acylation of GPI precursors, we identified essential residues of PIG-W and Gwt1p and determined the membrane topology of Gwt1p. Guided by algorithm-based predictions of membrane topology, we experimentally identified 13 transmembrane domains in Gwt1p. We found that Gwt1p, PIG-W, and their orthologs shared four conserved regions and that these four regions in Gwt1p faced the luminal side of the ER membrane. Moreover, essential residues of Gwt1p and PIG-W faced the ER lumen or were near the luminal edge of transmembrane domains. The membrane topology of Gwt1p suggested that inositol acylation occurred on the luminal side of the ER membrane. Rather than stimulate flipping of the GPI precursor across the ER membrane, inositol acylation of GPI precursors may anchor the precursors to the luminal side of the ER membrane, preventing flip-flops.
Roles of chromatin remodeling factors in the formation and maintenance of heterochromatin structure.	Heterochromatin consists of highly ordered nucleosomes with characteristic histone modifications. There is evidence implicating chromatin remodeling proteins in heterochromatin formation, but their exact roles are not clear. We demonstrate in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that the Fun30p and Isw1p chromatin remodeling factors are similarly required for transcriptional silencing at the HML locus, but they differentially contribute to the structure and stability of HML heterochromatin. In the absence of Fun30p, only a partially silenced structure is established at HML. Such a structure resembles fully silenced heterochromatin in histone modifications but differs markedly from both fully silenced and derepressed chromatin structures regarding nucleosome arrangement. This structure likely represents an intermediate state of heterochromatin that can be converted by Fun30p to the mature state. Moreover, Fun30p removal reduces the rate of de novo establishment of heterochromatin, suggesting that Fun30p assists the silencing machinery in forming heterochromatin. We also find evidence suggesting that Fun30p functions together with, or after, the action of the silencing machinery. On the other hand, Isw1p is dispensable for the formation of heterochromatin structure but is instead critically required for maintaining its stability. Therefore, chromatin remodeling proteins may rearrange nucleosomes during the formation of heterochromatin or serve to stabilize/maintain heterochromatin structure.
Mode of action of the antiprion drugs 6AP and GA on ribosome assisted protein folding.	The ribosome, the protein synthesis machinery of the cell, has also been implicated in protein folding. This activity resides within the domain V of the main RNA component of the large subunit of the ribosome. It has been shown that two antiprion drugs 6-aminophenanthridine (6AP) and Guanabenz (GA) bind to the ribosomal RNA and inhibit specifically the protein folding activity of the ribosome. Here, we have characterized with biochemical experiments, the mode of inhibition of these two drugs using ribosomes or ribosomal components active in protein folding (referred to as 'ribosomal folding modulators' or RFMs) from both bacteria Escherichia coli and yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and human carbonic anhydrase (HCA) as a sample protein. Our results indicate that 6AP and GA inhibit the protein folding activity of the ribosome by competition with the unfolded protein for binding to the ribosome. As a result, the yield of the refolded protein decreases, but the rate of its refolding remains unaffected. Further, 6AP- and GA mediated inhibition of RFM mediated refolding can be reversed by the addition of RFMs in excess. We also demonstrate with delayed addition of the ribosome and the antiprion drugs that there is a short time-span in the range of seconds within which the ribosome interacts with the unfolded protein. Thus we conclude that the protein folding activity of the ribosome is conserved from bacteria to eukaryotes and most likely the substrate for RFMs is an early refolding state of the target protein.
Crystal structures of the S. cerevisiae Spt6 core and C-terminal tandem SH2 domain.	The conserved and essential eukaryotic protein Spt6 functions in transcription elongation, chromatin maintenance, and RNA processing. Spt6 has three characterized functions. It is a histone chaperone capable of reassembling nucleosomes, a central component of transcription elongation complexes, and is required for recruitment of RNA processing factors to elongating RNA polymerase II (RNAPII). Here, we report multiple crystal structures of the 168-kDa Spt6 protein from Saccharomyces cerevisiae that together represent essentially all of the ordered sequence. Our two structures of the 900-residue core region reveal a series of putative nucleic acid and protein-protein interaction domains that fold into an elongated form that resembles the bacterial protein Tex. The similarity to a bacterial transcription factor suggests that the core domain performs nucleosome-independent activities, and as with Tex, we find that Spt6 binds DNA. Unlike Tex, however, the Spt6 S1 domain does not contribute to this activity. Crystal structures of the Spt6 C-terminal region reveal a tandem SH2 domain structure composed of two closely associated SH2 folds. One of these SH2 folds is cryptic, while the other shares striking structural similarity with metazoan SH2 domains and possesses structural features associated with the ability to bind phosphorylated substrates including phosphotyrosine. Binding studies with phosphopeptides that mimic the RNAPII C-terminal domain revealed affinities typical of other RNAPII C-terminal domain-binding proteins but did not indicate a specific interaction. Overall, these findings provide a structural foundation for understanding how Spt6 encodes several distinct functions within a single polypeptide chain.
Molecular structure and flexibility of the yeast coatomer as revealed by electron microscopy.	Coat protein complex I (COPI)-coated vesicles, one of three major types of vesicular carriers in the cell, mediate the early secretory pathway and retrograde transport from the Golgi to the endoplasmic reticulum. COPI vesicles are generated through activation of the regulatory GTPase Arf1 at the donor membrane and the subsequent recruitment of coatomer, a coat protein complex consisting of seven stably associated components. Coatomer functions in binding and sequestering cargo molecules and assembles into a polymeric protein shell that encompasses the surface of COPI vesicles. Little is known about the structural properties of this heptameric complex. We have isolated native yeast coatomer and examined its structure and subunit organization by single-particle electron microscopy. Our analyses provide the first three-dimensional picture of the complete coatomer and reveal substantial conformational flexibility likely to be critical for its scaffolding function.
Prp8, the pivotal protein of the spliceosomal catalytic center, evolved from a retroelement-encoded reverse transcriptase.	Prp8 is the largest and most highly conserved protein of the spliceosome, encoded by all sequenced eukaryotic genomes but missing from prokaryotes and viruses. Despite all evidence that Prp8 is an integral part of the spliceosomal catalytic center, much remains to be learned about its molecular functions and evolutionary origin. By analyzing sequence and structure similarities between Prp8 and other protein domains, we show that its N-terminal region contains a putative bromodomain. The central conserved domain of Prp8 is related to the catalytic domain of reverse transcriptases (RTs) and is most similar to homologous enzymes encoded by prokaryotic retroelements. However, putative catalytic residues in this RT domain are only partially conserved and may not be sufficient for the nucleotidyltransferase activity. The RT domain is followed by an uncharacterized sequence region with relatives found in fungal RT-like proteins. This part of Prp8 is predicted to adopt an -helical structure and may be functionally equivalent to diverse maturase/X domains of retroelements and to the thumb domain of retroviral RTs. Together with a previously identified C-terminal domain that has an RNaseH-like fold, our results suggest evolutionary connections between Prp8 and ancient mobile elements. Prp8 may have evolved by acquiring nucleic acid-binding domains from inactivated retroelements, and their present-day role may be in maintaining proper conformation of the bound RNA cofactors and substrates of the splicing reaction. This is only the second example-the other one being telomerase-of the RT recruitment from a genomic parasite to serve an essential cellular function.
PSI(+)] aggregate enlargement in rnq1 nonprion domain mutants, leading to a loss of prion in yeast	[PIN(+)] is the prion form of the Rnq1 protein of unknown function in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A glutamine/asparagine (Q/N)-rich C-terminal domain is necessary for the propagation of [PIN(+)], whereas the N-terminal region is non-Q/N-rich and considered the nonprion domain. Here, we isolated numerous single-amino-acid mutations in Rnq1, phenotypically similar to Rnq1100, which inhibit [PSI(+)] propagation in the [PIN(+)] state, but not in the [pin(-)] state, when overproduced. The dynamics of the prion aggregates was analyzed by semi-denaturing detergent-agarose gel electrophoresis and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy. The results indicated that [PSI(+)] aggregates were enlarged in mother cells and, instead, not apparently transmitted into daughter cells. Under these conditions, the activity of Hsp104, a known prion disaggregase, was not affected when monitored for the thermotolerance of the rnq1 mutants. These [PSI(+)]-inhibitory rnq1 mutations did not affect [PIN(+)] propagation itself when over-expressed from a strong promoter, but instead destabilized [PIN(+)] when expressed from the weak authentic RNQ1 promoter. The majority of these mutated residues are mapped to the surface, and on one side, of contiguous -helices of the nonprion domain of Rnq1, suggesting its involvement in interactions with a prion or a factor necessary for prion development.
Charged flanking residues control the efficiency of membrane insertion of the first transmembrane segment in yeast mitochondrial Mgm1p.	Mgm1p is a nuclearly encoded GTPase important for mitochondrial fusion. Long and short isoforms of the protein are generated in a unique "alternative topogenesis" process in which the most N-terminal of two hydrophobic segments in the protein is inserted into the inner mitochondrial membrane in about half of the molecules and translocated across the inner membrane in the other half. In the latter population, the second hydrophobic segment is cleaved by the inner membrane protease Pcp1p, generating the short isoform. Here, we show that charged residues in the regions flanking the first segment critically affect the ratio between the two isoforms, providing new insight into the importance of charged residues in the insertion of proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane.
Stm1 modulates translation after 80S formation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The control of translation is a critical aspect of gene regulation. It is often inversely related to mRNA degradation and is typically controlled during initiation. The Stm1 protein in Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been shown to interact with ribosomes, affect the interaction of eEF3 with ribosomes, and promote the decapping of a subclass of mRNAs. We demonstrate that in vitro Stm1 inhibits translation after formation of an 80S complex. This suggests that Stm1 modulates translation and mRNA decapping by controlling translation elongation.
Molecular structures and interactions in the yeast kinetochore.	Kinetochores are the elaborate protein assemblies that attach chromosomes to spindle microtubules in mitosis and meiosis. The kinetochores of point-centromere yeast appear to represent an elementary module, which repeats a number of times in kinetochores assembled on regional centromeres. Structural analyses of the discrete protein subcomplexes that make up the budding-yeast kinetochore have begun to reveal principles of kinetochore architecture and to uncover molecular mechanisms underlying functions such as transmission of tension and establishment and maintenance of bipolar attachment. The centromeric DNA is probably wrapped into a compact organization, not only by a conserved, centromeric nucleosome, but also by interactions among various other DNA-bound kinetochore components. The rod-like, heterotetrameric Ndc80 complex, roughly 600  long, appears to extend from the DNA-proximal assembly to the plus end of a microtubule, to which one end of the complex is known to bind. Ongoing structural studies will clarify the roles of a number of other well-defined complexes.
Species-specific collaboration of heat shock proteins (Hsp) 70 and 100 in thermotolerance and protein disaggregation.	Yeast Hsp104 and its bacterial homolog, ClpB, are Clp/Hsp100 molecular chaperones and AAA+ ATPases. Hsp104 and ClpB collaborate with the Hsp70 and DnaK chaperone systems, respectively, to retrieve and reactivate stress-denatured proteins from aggregates. The action of Hsp104 and ClpB in promoting cell survival following heat stress is species-specific: Hsp104 cannot function in bacteria and ClpB cannot act in yeast. To determine the regions of Hsp104 and ClpB necessary for this specificity, we tested chimeras of Hsp104 and ClpB in vivo and in vitro. We show that the Hsp104 and ClpB middle domains dictate the species-specificity of Hsp104 and ClpB for cell survival at high temperature. In protein reactivation assays in vitro, chimeras containing the Hsp104 middle domain collaborate with Hsp70 and those with the ClpB middle domain function with DnaK. The region responsible for the specificity is within helix 2 and helix 3 of the middle domain. Additionally, several mutants containing amino acid substitutions in helix 2 of the ClpB middle domain are defective in protein disaggregation in collaboration with DnaK. In a bacterial two-hybrid assay, DnaK interacts with ClpB and with chimeras that have the ClpB middle domain, implying that species-specificity is due to an interaction between DnaK and the middle domain of ClpB. Our results suggest that the interaction between Hsp70/DnaK and helix 2 of the middle domain of Hsp104/ClpB determines the specificity required for protein disaggregation both in vivo and in vitro, as well as for cellular thermotolerance.
Sequential requirements for the GTPase domain of the mitofusin Fzo1 and the ubiquitin ligase SCFMdm30 in mitochondrial outer membrane fusion.	The ability of cells to respire requires that mitochondria undergo fusion and fission of their outer and inner membranes. The means by which levels of fusion 'machinery' components are regulated and the molecular details of how fusion occurs are largely unknown. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a central component of the mitochondrial outer membrane (MOM) fusion machinery is the mitofusin Fzo1, a dynamin-like GTPase. We demonstrate that an early step in fusion, mitochondrial tethering, is dependent on the Fzo1 GTPase domain. Furthermore, the ubiquitin ligase SCF(Mdm30) (a SKP1-cullin-1-F-box complex that contains Mdm30 as the F-box protein), which targets Fzo1 for ubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation, is recruited to Fzo1 as a consequence of a GTPase-domain-dependent alteration in the mitofusin. Moreover, evidence is provided that neither Mdm30 nor proteasome activity are necessary for tethering of mitochondria. However, both Mdm30 and proteasomes are critical for MOM fusion. To better understand the requirement for the ubiquitin-proteasome system in mitochondrial fusion, we used the N-end rule system of degrons and determined that ongoing degradation of Fzo1 is important for mitochondrial morphology and respiration. These findings suggest a sequence of events in early mitochondrial fusion where Fzo1 GTPase-domain-dependent tethering leads to recruitment of SCF(Mdm30) and ubiquitin-mediated degradation of Fzo1, which facilitates mitochondrial fusion.
Iwr1 directs RNA polymerase II nuclear import.	RNA polymerase (Pol) II transcribes protein-coding genes in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells and consists of 12 polypeptide subunits. It is unknown how Pol II is imported into the nucleus. Here we show that Pol II nuclear import requires the protein Iwr1 and provide evidence for cyclic Iwr1 function. Iwr1 binds Pol II in the active center cleft between the two largest subunits, maybe facilitating or sensing complete Pol II assembly in the cytoplasm. Iwr1 then uses an N-terminal bipartite nuclear localization signal that is recognized by karyopherin  to direct Pol II nuclear import. In the nucleus, Iwr1 is displaced from Pol II by transcription initiation factors and nucleic acids, enabling its export and recycling. Iwr1 function is Pol II specific, transcription independent, and apparently conserved from yeast to human.
Structure and mechanism of the chromatin remodelling factor ISW1a.	Site-specific recognition of DNA in eukaryotic organisms depends on the arrangement of nucleosomes in chromatin. In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, ISW1a and related chromatin remodelling factors are implicated in establishing the nucleosome repeat during replication and altering nucleosome position to affect gene activity. Here we have solved the crystal structures of S. cerevisiae ISW1a lacking its ATPase domain both alone and with DNA bound at resolutions of 3.25 and 3.60, respectively, and we have visualized two different nucleosome-containing remodelling complexes using cryo-electron microscopy. The composite X-ray and electron microscopy structures combined with site-directed photocrosslinking analyses of these complexes suggest that ISW1a uses a dinucleosome substrate for chromatin remodelling. Results from a remodelling assay corroborate the dinucleosome model. We show how a chromatin remodelling factor could set the spacing between two adjacent nucleosomes acting as a 'protein ruler'.
Systematic mutational analysis of the intracellular regions of yeast Gap1 permease.	The yeast general amino acid permease Gap1 is a convenient model for studying the intracellular trafficking of membrane proteins. Present at the plasma membrane when the nitrogen source is poor, it undergoes ubiquitin-dependent endocytosis and degradation upon addition of a good nitrogen source, e.g., ammonium. It comprises 12 transmembrane domains (TM) flanked by cytosol-facing N- and C-terminal tails (NT, CT). The NT of Gap1 contains the acceptor lysines for ubiquitylation and its CT includes a sequence essential to exit from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER).
Evidence for an extracellular acid proteolytic activity secreted by living cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae PlR1: impact on grape proteins.	In this work, Saccharomyces cerevisiae PlR1, a strain isolated from Pinot noir grapes in the Champagne area, was shown to secrete an acid proteolytic activity against bovine serum albumin. This proteolytic activity was detectable in cell-free culture supernatants at the beginning of the exponential growth phase and increased with yeast growth. Using a zymography method, only one protease band with a molecular mass of 72 kDa was observed. This extracellular proteolytic activity was detected in the pH range from 2 to 4 with a maximal value at pH 2.5 and 38 C and was completely inhibited by pepstatin A. The secretion of this protease did not need any protein inducer and seemed to be insensitive to nitrogen catabolic repression. S. cerevisiae PlR1 was also able to secrete this proteolytic activity during alcoholic fermentation, and it was found to be active against grape proteins, with a molecular mass around 25 kDa, at optimal conditions of 38 C, pH 3.5.
Ddc1 checkpoint protein and DNA polymerase  interact with nick-containing DNA repair intermediate in cell free extracts of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	To characterize proteins that interact with base excision/single-strand interruption repair DNA intermediates in cell free extracts of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we used a combination of photoaffinity labeling with the protein identification by MALDI-TOF-MS peptide mapping. Photoreactive analogue of dCTP, namely exo-N-[4-(4-azido-2,3,5,6,-tetrafluorobenzylidenehydrazinocarbonyl)-butylcarbamoyl]-2'-deoxycytidine-5'-triphosphate, and [(32)P]-labeled DNA duplex containing one nucleotide gap were used to generate nick-containing DNA with a photoreactive dCMP residue at the 3'-margin of the nick. This photoreactive DNA derivative was incubated with the yeast cell extract and after UV irradiation a number of proteins were labeled. Two of the crosslinked proteins were identified as the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase  and Ddc1 checkpoint protein. Labeling of DNA polymerase  catalytic subunit with the nick-containing DNA repair intermediate indicates that the DNA polymerase is involved in the DNA repair synthesis in yeast, at least at DNA single-strand interruptions. Crosslinking of Ddc1 to DNA nicks took place independently of the other components of checkpoint clamp, Mec3 and Rad17, suggesting that the protein alone is able to recognize DNA single-strand breaks. Indeed, purified GST-tagged Ddc1 protein was efficiently crosslinked to nick-containing DNA. The interaction of Ddc1 with DNA nicks may provide a link between the DNA damage checkpoint and DNA base excision/single-strand breaks repair pathways in yeast. In addition, we found that absence of Ddc1 protein greatly influences the overall pattern of other proteins crosslinked to DNA nick. We suggested that this last effect of Ddc1 is at least partially due to its capacity to prevent proteolytic degradation of the DNA-protein adducts.
Structural components and architectures of RNA exosomes.	A large body of structural work conducted over the past ten years has elucidated mechanistic details related to 3' to 5' processing and decay of RNA substrates by the RNA exosome. This chapter will focus on the structural organization of eukaryotic exosomes and their evolutionary cousins in bacteria and archaea with an emphasis on mechanistic details related to substrate recognition and to 3' to 5' phosphorolytic exoribonucleolytic activities of bacterial and archaeal exosomes as well as the hydrolytic exoribonucleolytic and endoribonucleolytic activities of eukaryotic exosomes. These points will be addressed in large part through presentation of crystal structures ofphosphorolytic enzymes such as bacterial RNase PH, PNPase and archaeal exosomes and crystal structures ofthe eukaryotic exosome and exosome sub-complexes in addition to standalone structures of proteins that catalyze activities associated with the eukaryotic RNA exosome, namely Rrp44, Rrp6 and their bacterial counterparts.
Lesion bypass by S. cerevisiae Pol  alone.	DNA polymerase zeta (Pol ) participates in translesion synthesis (TLS) of DNA adducts that stall replication fork progression. Previous studies have led to the suggestion that the primary role of Pol  in TLS is to extend primers created when another DNA polymerase inserts nucleotides opposite lesions. Here we test the non-exclusive possibility that Pol  can sometimes perform TLS in the absence of any other polymerase. To do so, we quantified the efficiency with which S. cerevisiae Pol  bypasses abasic sites, cis-syn cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers and (6-4) photoproducts. In reactions containing dNTP concentrations that mimic those induced by DNA damage, a Pol  derivative with phenylalanine substituted for leucine 979 at the polymerase active site bypasses all three lesions at efficiencies between 27 and 73%. Wild-type Pol  also bypasses these lesions, with efficiencies that are lower and depend on the sequence context in which the lesion resides. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that, in addition to extending aberrant termini created by other DNA polymerases, Pol  has the potential to be the sole DNA polymerase involved in TLS.
A substrate translocation trajectory in a cytoplasm-facing topological model of the monocarboxylate/H symporter Jen1p.	Previous mutational analysis of Jen1p, a Saccharomyces cerevisiae monocarboxylate/H symporter of the Major Facilitator Superfamily, has suggested that the consensus sequence NXX[S/T]HX[S/T]QD in transmembrane segment VII (TMS-VII) is part of the substrate translocation pathway. Here, we rationally design, analyse and show that several novel mutations in TMS-V and TMS-XI directly modify Jen1p function. Among the residues studied, F270 (TMS-V) and Q498 (TMS-XI) are critical specificity determinants for the distinction of mono- from dicarboxylates, and N501 (TMS-XI) is a critical residue for function. Using a model created on the basis of Jen1p similarity with the GlpT permease, we show that all polar residues critical for function within TMS-VII and TMS-XI (N379, H383, D387, Q498, N501) are perfectly aligned in an imaginary axis that lies parallel to the protein pore. This model and subsequent mutational analysis further reveal that an additional polar residue facing the pore, R188 (TMS-II), is irreplaceable for function. Our model also justifies the role of F270 and Q498 in substrate specificity. Finally, docking calculations reveal a 'trajectory-like' substrate displacement within the Jen1p pore, where R188 plays a major dynamic role mediating the orderly relocation of the substrate by subsequent H-bond interactions involving itself and residues H383, N501 and Q498.
Specific and modular binding code for cytosine recognition in Pumilio/FBF (PUF) RNA-binding domains.	Pumilio/fem-3 mRNA-binding factor (PUF) proteins possess a recognition code for bases A, U, and G, allowing designed RNA sequence specificity of their modular Pumilio (PUM) repeats. However, recognition side chains in a PUM repeat for cytosine are unknown. Here we report identification of a cytosine-recognition code by screening random amino acid combinations at conserved RNA recognition positions using a yeast three-hybrid system. This C-recognition code is specific and modular as specificity can be transferred to different positions in the RNA recognition sequence. A crystal structure of a modified PUF domain reveals specific contacts between an arginine side chain and the cytosine base. We applied the C-recognition code to design PUF domains that recognize targets with multiple cytosines and to generate engineered splicing factors that modulate alternative splicing. Finally, we identified a divergent yeast PUF protein, Nop9p, that may recognize natural target RNAs with cytosine. This work deepens our understanding of natural PUF protein target recognition and expands the ability to engineer PUF domains to recognize any RNA sequence.
The yeast kinase Yck2 has a tripartite palmitoylation signal.	The yeast kinase Yck2 tethers to the cytoplasmic surface of the plasma membrane through dual palmitoylation of its C-terminal Cys-Cys dipeptide, mediated by the Golgi-localized palmitoyl-transferase Akr1. Here, the Yck2 palmitoylation signal is found to consist of three parts: 1) a 10-residue-long, conserved C-terminal peptide (CCTP) that includes the C-terminal Cys-Cys dipeptide; 2) the kinase catalytic domain (KD); and mapping between these two elements; and 3) a 176-residue-long, poorly conserved, glutamine-rich sequence. The CCTP, which contains the C-terminal cysteines as well as an important Phe-Phe dipeptide, likely serves as an Akr1 recognition element, because CCTP mutations disrupt palmitoylation within a purified in vitro palmitoylation system. The KD contribution appears to be complex with roles for both KD activity (e.g., Yck2-mediated phosphorylation) and structure (e.g., Akr1 recognition elements). KD and CCTP mutations are strongly synergistic, suggesting that, like the CCTP, the KD may also participate at the Yck2-Akr1 recognition step. The long, glutamine-rich domain, which is located between the KD and CCTP, is predicted to be intrinsically disordered and may function as a flexible, interdomain linker, allowing a coupled interaction of the KD and CCTP with Akr1. Multipart palmitoylation signals may prove to be a general feature of this large class of palmitoylation substrates. These soluble proteins have no clear means of accessing membranes and thus may require active capture out of the cytoplasm for palmitoylation by their membrane-localized transferases.
In vitro assembly of physiological cohesin/DNA complexes.	Cohesin is a member of the Smc family of protein complexes that mediates higher-order chromosome structure by tethering different regions of chromatin. We present a new in vitro system that assembles cohesin-DNA complexes with in vivo properties. The assembly of these physiological salt-resistant complexes requires the cohesin holo-complex, its ability to bind ATP, the cohesin loader Scc2p and a closed DNA topology. Both the number of cohesin molecules bound to the DNA substrate and their distribution on the DNA substrate are limited. Cohesin and Scc2p bind preferentially to cohesin associated regions (CARs), DNA sequences with enriched cohesin binding in vivo. A subsequence of CARC1 promotes cohesin binding to neighboring sequences within CARC1. The enhancer-like function of this sequence is validated by in vivo deletion analysis. By demonstrating the physiological relevance of these in vitro assembled cohesin-DNA complexes, we establish our in vitro system as a powerful tool to elucidate the mechanism of cohesin and other Smc complexes.
Noise reduction in protein-protein interaction graphs by the implementation of a novel weighting scheme.	Recent technological advances applied to biology such as yeast-two-hybrid, phage display and mass spectrometry have enabled us to create a detailed map of protein interaction networks. These interaction networks represent a rich, yet noisy, source of data that could be used to extract meaningful information, such as protein complexes. Several interaction network weighting schemes have been proposed so far in the literature in order to eliminate the noise inherent in interactome data. In this paper, we propose a novel weighting scheme and apply it to the S. cerevisiae interactome. Complex prediction rates are improved by up to 39%, depending on the clustering algorithm applied.
Sgf29 binds histone H3K4me2/3 and is required for SAGA complex recruitment and histone H3 acetylation.	The SAGA (Spt-Ada-Gcn5 acetyltransferase) complex is an important chromatin modifying complex that can both acetylate and deubiquitinate histones. Sgf29 is a novel component of the SAGA complex. Here, we report the crystal structures of the tandem Tudor domains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and human Sgf29 and their complexes with H3K4me2 and H3K4me3 peptides, respectively, and show that Sgf29 selectively binds H3K4me2/3 marks. Our crystal structures reveal that Sgf29 harbours unique tandem Tudor domains in its C-terminus. The tandem Tudor domains in Sgf29 tightly pack against each other face-to-face with each Tudor domain harbouring a negatively charged pocket accommodating the first residue alanine and methylated K4 residue of histone H3, respectively. The H3A1 and K4me3 binding pockets and the limited binding cleft length between these two binding pockets are the structural determinants in conferring the ability of Sgf29 to selectively recognize H3K4me2/3. Our in vitro and in vivo functional assays show that Sgf29 recognizes methylated H3K4 to recruit the SAGA complex to its targets sites and mediates histone H3 acetylation, underscoring the importance of Sgf29 in gene regulation.
Replication of ribonucleotide-containing DNA templates by yeast replicative polymerases.	The major replicative DNA polymerases of S. cerevisiae (Pols , , and ) incorporate substantial numbers of ribonucleotides into DNA during DNA synthesis. When these ribonucleotides are not removed in vivo, they reside in the template strand used for the next round of replication and could potentially reduce replication efficiency and fidelity. To examine if the presence of ribonucleotides in a DNA template impede DNA synthesis, we determined the efficiency with which Pols , , and  copy DNA templates containing a single ribonucleotide. All three polymerases can replicate past ribonucleotides. Relative to all-DNA templates, bypass of ribo-containing templates is slightly reduced, to extents that depend on the identity of the ribo and the sequence context in which it resides. Bypass efficiencies for Pols  and  were increased by increasing the dNTP concentrations to those induced by cellular stress, and in the case of Pol , by inactivating the 3'-exonuclease activity. Overall, ribonucleotide bypass efficiencies are comparable to, and usually exceed, those for the common oxidative stress-induced lesion 8-oxo-guanine.
The structure of a monomeric mutant Cks protein reveals multiple functions for a conserved hinge-region proline.	Cks (cyclin-dependent kinase subunit) proteins are essential eukaryotic cell cycle regulatory proteins that physically associate with cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdks) to modulate their activity. Cks proteins have also been studied for their ability to form domain-swapped dimers by exchanging -strands. Domain swapping is mediated by a conserved -hinge region containing two proline residues. Previous structural studies indicate that Cks in its dimer form is unable to bind Cdk, suggesting that the monomer-dimer equilibrium of Cks may have an effect on Cks-mediated Cdk regulation. We present the crystal structure of a proline-to-alanine mutant Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cks protein (Cks1 P93A) that preferentially adopts the monomer conformation but surprisingly fails to bind Cdk. Comparison of the Cks1 P93A structure to that of other Cks proteins reveals that Pro93 is critical for stabilizing a multiple -turn structure in the hinge region that properly positions an essential Cdk-binding residue. Additionally, we find that these -turn formations, conserved in Cks homologs, have implications for the mechanism and preferentiality of strand exchange. Together, our observations suggest that the conservation of Cks hinge-region prolines reflects their functions in forming a Cdk binding interface and that the ability of these prolines to control partitioning between monomer and dimer is a consequence of the -turn networks within the hinge.
Structure of the RACK1 dimer from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Receptor for activated C-kinase 1 (RACK1) serves as a scaffolding protein in numerous signaling pathways involving kinases and membrane-bound receptors from different cellular compartments. It exists simultaneously as a cytosolic free form and as a ribosome-bound protein. As part of the 40S ribosomal subunit, it triggers translational regulation by establishing a direct link between protein kinase C and the protein synthesis machinery. It has been suggested that RACK1 could recruit other signaling molecules onto the ribosome, providing a signal-specific modulation of the translational process. RACK1 is able to dimerize both in vitro and in vivo. This homodimer formation has been observed in several processes including the regulation of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor by the Fyn kinase in the brain and the oxygen-independent degradation of hypoxia-inducible factor 1. The functional relevance of this dimerization is, however, still unclear and the question of a possible dimerization of the ribosome-bound protein is still pending. Here, we report the first structure of a RACK1 homodimer, as determined from two independent crystal forms of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae RACK1 protein (also known as Asc1p) at 2.9 and 3.9 resolution. The structure reveals an atypical mode of dimerization where monomers intertwine on blade 4, thus exposing a novel surface of the protein to potential interacting partners. We discuss the significance of the dimer structure for RACK1 function.
Structural basis for the function of Tim50 in the mitochondrial presequence translocase.	Many mitochondrial proteins are synthesized as preproteins carrying amino-terminal presequences in the cytosol. The preproteins are imported by the translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane and the presequence translocase of the inner membrane. Tim50 and Tim23 transfer preproteins through the intermembrane space to the inner membrane. We report the crystal structure of the intermembrane space domain of yeast Tim50 to 1.83 resolution. A protruding -hairpin of Tim50 is crucial for interaction with Tim23, providing a molecular basis for the cooperation of Tim50 and Tim23 in preprotein translocation to the protein-conducting channel of the mitochondrial inner membrane.
Epsin N-terminal homology domains bind on opposite sides of two SNAREs.	SNARE proteins are crucial for membrane fusion in vesicular transport. To ensure efficient and accurate fusion, SNAREs need to be sorted into different budding vesicles. This process is usually regulated by specific recognition between SNAREs and their adaptor proteins. How different pairs of SNAREs and adaptors achieve their recognition is unclear. Here, we report the recognition between yeast SNARE Vti1p and its adaptor Ent3p derived from three crystal structures. Surprisingly, this yeast pair Vti1p/Ent3p interacts through a distinct binding site compared to their homologues vti1b/epsinR in mammals. An opposite surface on Vti1p_Habc domain binds to a conserved area on the epsin N-terminal homology (ENTH) domain of Ent3p. Two-hybrid, in vitro pull-down and in vivo experiments indicate this binding interface is important for correct localization of Vti1p in the cell. This previously undescribed discovery that a cargo and adaptor pair uses different binding sites across species suggests the diversity of SNARE-adaptor recognition in vesicular transport.
Solution structures of DEAD-box RNA chaperones reveal conformational changes and nucleic acid tethering by a basic tail.	The mitochondrial DEAD-box proteins Mss116p of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and CYT-19 of Neurospora crassa are ATP-dependent helicases that function as general RNA chaperones. The helicase core of each protein precedes a C-terminal extension and a basic tail, whose structural role is unclear. Here we used small-angle X-ray scattering to obtain solution structures of the full-length proteins and a series of deletion mutants. We find that the two core domains have a preferred relative orientation in the open state without substrates, and we visualize the transition to a compact closed state upon binding RNA and adenosine nucleotide. An analysis of complexes with large chimeric oligonucleotides shows that the basic tails of both proteins are attached flexibly, enabling them to bind rigid duplex DNA segments extending from the core in different directions. Our results indicate that the basic tails of DEAD-box proteins contribute to RNA-chaperone activity by binding nonspecifically to large RNA substrates and flexibly tethering the core for the unwinding of neighboring duplexes.
UBAP1 is a component of an endosome-specific ESCRT-I complex that is essential for MVB sorting.	Endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRTs) regulate several events involving membrane invagination, including multivesicular body (MVB) biogenesis, viral budding, and cytokinesis. In each case, upstream ESCRTs combine with additional factors, such as Bro1 proteins, to recruit ESCRT-III and the ATPase VPS4 in order to drive membrane scission. A clue to understanding how such diverse cellular processes might be controlled independently of each other has been the identification of ESCRT isoforms. Mammalian ESCRT-I comprises TSG101, VPS28, VPS37A-D, and MVB12A/B. These could generate several ESCRT-I complexes, each targeted to a different compartment and able to recruit distinct ESCRT-III proteins. Here we identify a novel ESCRT-I component, ubiquitin-associated protein 1 (UBAP1), which contains a region conserved in MVB12. UBAP1 binds the endosomal Bro1 protein His domain protein tyrosine phosphatase (HDPTP), but not Alix, a Bro1 protein involved in cytokinesis. UBAP1 is required for sorting EGFR to the MVB and for endosomal ubiquitin homeostasis, but not for cytokinesis. UBAP1 is part of a complex that contains a fraction of total cellular TSG101 and that also contains VPS37A but not VPS37C. Hence, the presence of UBAP1, in combination with VPS37A, defines an endosome-specific ESCRT-I complex.
Initiation complex structure and promoter proofreading.	The initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II is a multistage process. X-ray crystal structures of transcription complexes containing short RNAs reveal three structural states: one with 2- and 3-nucleotide RNAs, in which only the 3'-end of the RNA is detectable; a second state with 4- and 5-nucleotide RNAs, with an RNA-DNA hybrid in a grossly distorted conformation; and a third state with RNAs of 6 nucleotides and longer, essentially the same as a stable elongating complex. The transition from the first to the second state correlates with a markedly reduced frequency of abortive initiation. The transition from the second to the third state correlates with partial "bubble collapse" and promoter escape. Polymerase structure is permissive for abortive initiation, thereby setting a lower limit on polymerase-promoter complex lifetime and allowing the dissociation of nonspecific complexes. Abortive initiation may be viewed as promoter proofreading, and the structural transitions as checkpoints for promoter control.
Zinc-regulated DNA binding of the yeast Zap1 zinc-responsive activator.	The Zap1 transcription factor of Saccharomyces cerevisiae plays a central role in zinc homeostasis by controlling the expression of genes involved in zinc metabolism. Zap1 is active in zinc-limited cells and repressed in replete cells. At the transcriptional level, Zap1 controls its own expression via positive autoregulation. In addition, Zap1's two activation domains are regulated independently of each other by zinc binding directly to those regions and repressing activation function. In this report, we show that Zap1 DNA binding is also inhibited by zinc. DMS footprinting showed that Zap1 target gene promoter occupancy is regulated with or without transcriptional autoregulation. These results were confirmed using chromatin immunoprecipitation. Zinc regulation of DNA binding activity mapped to the DNA binding domain indicating other parts of Zap1 are unnecessary for this control. Overexpression of Zap1 overrode DNA binding regulation and resulted in constitutive promoter occupancy. Under these conditions of constitutive binding, both the zinc dose response of Zap1 activity and cellular zinc accumulation were altered suggesting the importance of DNA binding control to zinc homeostasis. Thus, our results indicated that zinc regulates Zap1 activity post-translationally via three independent mechanisms, all of which contribute to the overall zinc responsiveness of Zap1.
Testing the faux-UTR model for NMD: analysis of Upf1p and Pab1p competition for binding to eRF3/Sup35p.	Nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) is a surveillance mechanism that accelerates the degradation of mRNAs containing premature translation termination codons. This quality control pathway depends on the NMD-specific factors, Upf1p, Upf2p/Nmd2p, and Upf3p, as well as the two release factors, eRF1 and eRF3 (respectively designated Sup45p and Sup35p in yeast). NMD activation is also enabled by the absence of the poly(A)-binding protein, Pab1p, downstream of a termination event. Since Sup35p interacts with both Upf1p and Pab1p we considered the possibility that differential binding of the latter factors to Sup35p may be a critical determinant of NMD sensitivity for an mRNA. Here we describe three approaches to assess this hypothesis. First, we tethered fragments or mutant forms of Sup35p downstream of a premature termination codon in a mini-pgk1 nonsense-containing mRNA and showed that the inhibition of NMD by tethered Sup35p does not depend on the domain necessary for the recruitment of Pab1p. Second, we examined the Sup35p interaction properties of Upf1p and Pab1p invitro and showed that these two proteins bind differentially to Sup35p. Finally, we examined competitive binding between the three proteins and observed that Upf1p inhibits Pab1p binding to Sup35p whereas the interaction between Upf1p and Sup35p is relatively unaffected by Pab1p. These data indicate that the binding of Upf1p and Pab1p to Sup35p may be more complex than anticipated and that NMD activation could involve more than just simple competition between these factors. We conclude that activation of NMD at a premature termination codon is not solely based on the absence of Pab1p and suggest that a specific recruitment step must commit Upf1p to the process and Upf1p-associated mRNAs to NMD.
Full-length structural model of RET3 and SEC21 in COPI: identification of binding sites on the appendage for accessory protein recruitment motifs.	COPI, a 600 kD heptameric complex (consisting of subunits , , , , , , and ') "coatomer," assembles non-clathrin-coated vesicles and is responsible for intra-Golgi and Golgi-to-ER protein trafficking. Here, we report the three-dimensional structures of the entire sequences of yeast Sec21 (-COPI mammalian ortholog), yeast Ret3 (-COPI mammalian ortholog), and the results of successive molecular dynamics investigations of the subunits and assembly based on a protein-protein docking experiment. The three-dimensional structures of the subunits in their complexes indicate the residues of the two subunits that impact on assembly, the conformations of Ret3 and Sec21, and their binding orientations in the complexed state. The structure of the appendage domain of Sec21, with its two subdomains--the platform and the -sandwich, was investigated to explore its capacity to bind to accessory protein recruitment motifs. Our study shows that a binding site on the platform is capable of binding the Eps15 DPF and epsin DPW2 peptides, whereas the second site on the platform and the site on the -sandwich subdomain were found to selectively bind to the amphiphysin FXDXF and epsin DPW1 peptides, respectively. Identifying the regions of both the platform and sandwich subdomains involved in binding each peptide motif clarifies the mechanism through which the appendage domain of Sec21 engages with the accessory proteins during the trafficking process of non-clathrin-coated vesicles.
Structure-function analysis and genetic interactions of the yeast branchpoint binding protein Msl5.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae Msl5 (branchpoint binding protein) orchestrates spliceosome assembly by binding the branchpoint sequence 5'-UACUAAC and establishing cross intron-bridging interactions with other components of the splicing machinery. Reciprocal tandem affinity purifications verify that Msl5 exists in vivo as a heterodimer with Mud2 and that the Msl5-Mud2 complex is associated with the U1 snRNP. By gauging the ability of mutants of Msl5 to complement msl5, we find that the Mud2-binding (amino acids 35-54) and putative Prp40-binding (PPxY(100)) elements of the Msl5 N-terminal domain are inessential, as are the C-terminal proline-rich domain (amino acids 382-476) and two zinc-binding CxxCxxxxHxxxxC motifs (amino acids 273-286 and 299-312). A subset of conserved branchpoint RNA-binding amino acids in the central KH-QUA2 domain (amino acids 146-269) are essential pairwise (Ile198-Arg190; Leu256-Leu259) or in trios (Leu169-Arg172-Leu176), whereas other pairs of RNA-binding residues are dispensable. We used our collection of viable Msl5 mutants to interrogate synthetic genetic interactions, in cis between the inessential structural elements of the Msl5 polypeptide and in trans between Msl5 and yeast splicing factors (Mud2, Nam8 and Tgs1) that are optional for vegetative growth. The results suggest a network of important but functionally buffered protein-protein and protein-RNA interactions between the Mud2-Msl5 complex at the branchpoint and the U1 snRNP at the 5' splice site.
Ccr4-Not complex: the control freak of eukaryotic cells.	The purpose of this review is to provide an analysis of the latest developments on the functions of the carbon catabolite-repression 4-Not (Ccr4-Not) complex in regulating eukaryotic gene expression. Ccr4-Not is a nine-subunit protein complex that is conserved in sequence and function throughout the eukaryotic kingdom. Although Ccr4-Not has been studied since the 1980s, our understanding of what it does is constantly evolving. Once thought to solely regulate transcription, it is now clear that it has much broader roles in gene regulation, such as in mRNA decay and quality control, RNA export, translational repression and protein ubiquitylation. The mechanism of actions for each of its functions is still being debated. Some of the difficulty in drawing a clear picture is that it has been implicated in so many processes that regulate mRNAs and proteins in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. We will describe what is known about the Ccr4-Not complex in yeast and other eukaryotes in an effort to synthesize a unified model for how this complex coordinates multiple steps in gene regulation and provide insights into what questions will be most exciting to answer in the future.
Role of arginine 293 and glutamine 288 in communication between catalytic and allosteric sites in yeast ribonucleotide reductase.	Ribonucleotide reductases (RRs) catalyze the rate-limiting step of de novo deoxynucleotide (dNTP) synthesis. Eukaryotic RRs consist of two proteins, RR1 () that contains the catalytic site and RR2 () that houses a diferric-tyrosyl radical essential for ribonucleoside diphosphate reduction. Biochemical analysis has been combined with isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC), X-ray crystallography and yeast genetics to elucidate the roles of two loop 2 mutations R293A and Q288A in Saccharomyces cerevisiae RR1 (ScRR1). These mutations, R293A and Q288A, cause lethality and severe S phase defects, respectively, in cells that use ScRR1 as the sole source of RR1 activity. Compared to the wild-type enzyme activity, R293A and Q288A mutants show 4% and 15%, respectively, for ADP reduction, whereas they are 20% and 23%, respectively, for CDP reduction. ITC data showed that R293A ScRR1 is unable to bind ADP and binds CDP with 2-fold lower affinity compared to wild-type ScRR1. With the Q288A ScRR1 mutant, there is a 6-fold loss of affinity for ADP binding and a 2-fold loss of affinity for CDP compared to the wild type. X-ray structures of R293A ScRR1 complexed with dGTP and AMPPNP-CDP [AMPPNP, adenosine 5-(,-imido)triphosphate tetralithium salt] reveal that ADP is not bound at the catalytic site, and CDP binds farther from the catalytic site compared to wild type. Our in vivo functional analyses demonstrated that R293A cannot support mitotic growth, whereas Q288A can, albeit with a severe S phase defect. Taken together, our structure, activity, ITC and in vivo data reveal that the arginine 293 and glutamine 288 residues of ScRR1 are crucial in facilitating ADP and CDP substrate selection.
A stochastic model for the development of Bateson-Dobzhansky-Muller incompatibilities that incorporates protein interaction networks.	Speciation is characterized by the development of reproductive isolating barriers between diverging groups. Intrinsic post-zygotic barriers of the type envisioned by Bateson, Dobzhansky, and Muller are deleterious epistatic interactions among loci that reduce hybrid fitness, leading to reproductive isolation. The first formal population genetic model of the development of these barriers was published by Orr in 1995, and here we develop a more general model of this process by incorporating finite protein-protein interaction networks, which reduce the probability of deleterious interactions in vivo. Our model shows that the development of deleterious interactions is limited by the density of the protein-protein interaction network. We have confirmed our analytical predictions of the number of possible interactions given the number of allele substitutions by using simulations on the Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein-protein interaction network. These results allow us to define the rate at which deleterious interactions are expected to form, and hence the speciation rate, for any protein-protein interaction network.
Control of enzyme reaction by a designed metal-ion-dependent -helical coiled-coil protein.	Regulation of protein function by external stimuli is a fascinating target for de novo design. We have constructed a peptide that assembles into a homotrimer in the presence of metal ions, such as Ni(2+), Cu(2+), and Zn(2+). We fused the peptide construct to the DNA-binding domain (DBD) of the heat shock factor from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which binds tandem repeats of the heat shock element (HSE). However, the fusion protein bound to the natural three tandem HSEs even in the absence of metal ions, although mainly as the dimerized protein. Using "skipped" HSEs containing six additional nucleotides inserted between two adjacent HSEs, to prevent interactions between the DBDs, we found the fusion protein bound to the new DNA target in a metal-ion-dependent manner, as monitored by a HindIII protection assay. The fusion protein containing two metal binding sites in the metal-ion-controlled domain inhibited RNA transcription by T7 RNA polymerase in the presence of metal ions, in a template containing skipped HSEs downstream of the T7 promoter. The designed protein therefore regulates the functions of the enzyme in a metal-ion-dependent manner.
Evolvability of yeast protein-protein interaction interfaces.	The functional importance of protein-protein interactions indicates that there should be strong evolutionary constraint on their interaction interfaces. However, binding interfaces are frequently affected by amino acid replacements. Change due to coevolution within interfaces can contribute to variability but is not ubiquitous. An alternative explanation for the ability of surfaces to accept replacements may be that many residues can be changed without affecting the interaction. Candidates for these types of residues are those that make interchain interaction only through the protein main chain, -carbon, or associated hydrogen atoms. Since almost all residues have these atoms, we hypothesize that this subset of interface residues may be more easily substituted than those that make interactions through other atoms. We term such interactions "residue type independent." Investigating this hypothesis, we find that nearly a quarter of residues in protein interaction interfaces make exclusively interchain residue-type-independent contacts. These residues are less structurally constrained and less conserved than residues making residue-type-specific interactions. We propose that residue-type-independent interactions allow substitutions in binding interfaces while the specificity of binding is maintained.
Molecular basis for the anchoring of proto-oncoprotein Nup98 to the cytoplasmic face of the nuclear pore complex.	The cytoplasmic filament nucleoporins of the nuclear pore complex (NPC) are critically involved in nuclear export and remodeling of mRNA ribonucleoprotein particles and are associated with various human malignancies. Here, we report the crystal structure of the Nup98 C-terminal autoproteolytic domain, frequently missing from leukemogenic forms of the protein, in complex with the N-terminal domain of Nup82 and the C-terminal tail fragment of Nup159. The Nup82  propeller serves as a noncooperative binding platform for both binding partners. Interaction of Nup98 with Nup82 occurs through a reciprocal exchange of loop structures. Strikingly, the same Nup98 groove promiscuously interacts with Nup82 and Nup96 in a mutually excusive fashion. Simultaneous disruption of both Nup82 interactions in yeast causes severe defects in mRNA export, while the severing of a single interaction is tolerated. Thus, the cytoplasmic filament network of the NPC is robust, consistent with its essential function in nucleocytoplasmic transport.
A S-adenosylmethionine methyltransferase-like domain within the essential, Fe-S-containing yeast protein Dre2.	Yeast Dre2 is an essential Fe-S cluster-containing protein that has been implicated in cytosolic Fe-S protein biogenesis and in cell death regulation in response to oxidative stress. Its absence in yeast can be complemented by the human homologous antiapoptotic protein cytokine-induced apoptosis inhibitor 1 (also known as anamorsin), suggesting at least one common function. Using complementary techniques, we have investigated the biochemical and biophysical properties of Dre2. We show that it contains an N-terminal domain whose structure in solution consists of a stable well-structured monomer with an overall typical S-adenosylmethionine methyltransferase fold lacking two -helices and a -strand. The highly conserved C-terminus of Dre2, containing two Fe-S clusters, influences the flexibility of the N-terminal domain. We discuss the hypotheses that the activity of the N-terminal domain could be modulated by the redox activity of Fe-S clusters containing the C-terminus domain in vivo.
A dual role for K63-linked ubiquitin chains in multivesicular body biogenesis and cargo sorting.	In yeast, the sorting of transmembrane proteins into the multivesicular body (MVB) internal vesicles requires their ubiquitylation by the ubiquitin ligase Rsp5. This allows their recognition by the ubiquitin-binding domains (UBDs) of several endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) subunits. K63-linked ubiquitin (K63Ub) chains decorate several MVB cargoes, and accordingly we show that they localize prominently to the class E compartment, which accumulates ubiquitylated cargoes in cells lacking ESCRT components. Conversely, yeast cells unable to generate K63Ub chains displayed MVB sorting defects. These properties are conserved among eukaryotes, as the mammalian melanosomal MVB cargo MART-1 is modified by K63Ub chains and partly missorted when the genesis of these chains is inhibited. We show that all yeast UBD-containing ESCRT proteins undergo ubiquitylation and deubiquitylation, some being modified through the opposing activities of Rsp5 and the ubiquitin isopeptidase Ubp2, which are known to assemble and disassemble preferentially K63Ub chains, respectively. A failure to generate K63Ub chains in yeast leads to an MVB ultrastructure alteration. Our work thus unravels a double function of K63Ub chains in cargo sorting and MVB biogenesis.
The C-terminal domain of Fcj1 is required for formation of crista junctions and interacts with the TOB/SAM complex in mitochondria.	Crista junctions (CJs) are tubular invaginations of the inner membrane of mitochondria that connect the inner boundary with the cristae membrane. These architectural elements are critical for mitochondrial function. The yeast inner membrane protein Fcj1, called mitofilin in mammals, was reported to be preferentially located at CJs and crucial for their formation. Here we investigate the functional roles of individual domains of Fcj1. The most conserved part of Fcj1, the C-terminal domain, is essential for Fcj1 function. In its absence, formation of CJ is strongly impaired and irregular, and stacked cristae are present. This domain interacts with full-length Fcj1, suggesting a role in oligomer formation. It also interacts with Tob55 of the translocase of outer membrane -barrel proteins (TOB)/sorting and assembly machinery (SAM) complex, which is required for the insertion of -barrel proteins into the outer membrane. The association of the TOB/SAM complex with contact sites depends on the presence of Fcj1. The biogenesis of -barrel proteins is not significantly affected in the absence of Fcj1. However, down-regulation of the TOB/SAM complex leads to altered cristae morphology and a moderate reduction in the number of CJs. We propose that the C-terminal domain of Fcj1 is critical for the interaction of Fcj1 with the TOB/SAM complex and thereby for stabilizing CJs in close proximity to the outer membrane. These results assign novel functions to both the C-terminal domain of Fcj1 and the TOB/SAM complex.
Dom34:hbs1 plays a general role in quality-control systems by dissociation of a stalled ribosome at the 3' end of aberrant mRNA.	Translation arrest leads to an endonucleolytic cleavage of mRNA that is termed no-go decay (NGD). It has been reported that the Dom34:Hbs1 complex stimulates this endonucleolytic cleavage of mRNA induced by translation arrest in vivo and dissociates subunits of a stalled ribosome in vitro. Here we report that Dom34:Hbs1 dissociates the subunits of a ribosome that is stalled at the 3' end of mRNA in vivo, and has a crucial role in both NGD and nonstop decay. Dom34:Hbs1-mediated dissociation of a ribosome that is stalled at the 3' end of mRNA is required for degradation of a 5'-NGD intermediate. Dom34:Hbs1 facilitates the decay of nonstop mRNAs from the 3' end by exosomes and is required for the complete degradation of nonstop mRNA decay intermediates. We propose that Dom34:Hbs1 stimulates degradation of the 5'-NGD intermediate and of nonstop mRNA by dissociating the ribosome that is stalled at the 3' end of the mRNA.
Multiple histone deacetylases are recruited by corepressor Sin3 and contribute to gene repression mediated by Opi1 regulator of phospholipid biosynthesis in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Yeast genes of phospholipid biosynthesis are negatively regulated by repressor protein Opi1 when precursor molecules inositol and choline (IC) are available. Opi1-triggered gene repression is mediated by recruitment of the Sin3 corepressor complex. In this study, we systematically investigated the regulatory contribution of subunits of Sin3 complexes and identified Pho23 as important for IC-dependent gene repression. Two non-overlapping regions within Pho23 mediate its direct interaction with Sin3. Previous work has shown that Sin3 recruits the histone deacetylase (HDAC) Rpd3 to execute gene repression. While deletion of SIN3 strongly alleviates gene repression by IC, an rpd3 null mutant shows almost normal regulation. We thus hypothesized that various HDACs may contribute to Sin3-mediated repression of IC-regulated genes. Indeed, a triple mutant lacking HDACs, Rpd3, Hda1 and Hos1, could phenocopy a sin3 single mutant. We show that these proteins are able to contact Sin3 in vitro and in vivo and mapped three distinct HDAC interaction domains, designated HID1, HID2 and HID3. HID3, which is identical to the previously described structural motif PAH4 (paired amphipathic helix), can bind all HDACs tested. Chromatin immunoprecipitation studies finally confirmed that Hda1 and Hos1 are recruited to promoters of phospholipid biosynthetic genes INO1 and CHO2.
Structure-based optimization of designed Armadillo-repeat proteins.	The armadillo domain is a right-handed super-helix of repeating units composed of three -helices each. Armadillo repeat proteins (ArmRPs) are frequently involved in protein-protein interactions, and because of their modular recognition of extended peptide regions they can serve as templates for the design of artificial peptide binding scaffolds. On the basis of sequential and structural analyses, different consensus-designed ArmRPs were synthesized and show high thermodynamic stabilities, compared to naturally occurring ArmRPs. We determined the crystal structures of four full-consensus ArmRPs with three or four identical internal repeats and two different designs for the N- and C-caps. The crystal structures were refined at resolutions ranging from 1.80 to 2.50  for the above mentioned designs. A redesign of our initial caps was required to obtain well diffracting crystals. However, the structures with the redesigned caps caused domain swapping events between the N-caps. To prevent this domain swap, 9 and 6 point mutations were introduced in the N- and C-caps, respectively. Structural and biophysical analysis showed that this subsequent redesign of the N-cap prevented domain swapping and improved the thermodynamic stability of the proteins. We systematically investigated the best cap combinations. We conclude that designed ArmRPs with optimized caps are intrinsically stable and well-expressed monomeric proteins and that the high-resolution structures provide excellent structural templates for the continuation of the design of sequence-specific modular peptide recognition units based on armadillo repeats.
Mapping the structural topology of the yeast 19S proteasomal regulatory particle using chemical cross-linking and probabilistic modeling.	Structural characterization of proteasome complexes is an essential step toward understanding the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Currently, high resolution structures are not available for the 26S proteasome holocomplex as well as its subcomplex, the 19S regulatory particle (RP). Here we have employed a novel integrated strategy combining chemical cross-linking with multistage tandem mass spectrometry to define the proximity of subunits within the yeast 19S RP to elucidate its topology. This has resulted in the identification of 174 cross-linked peptides of the yeast 19S RP, representing 43 unique lysine-lysine linkages within 24 nonredundant pair-wise subunit interactions. To map the spatial organization of the 19S RP, we have developed and utilized a rigorous probabilistic framework to derive maximum likelihood (ML) topologies based on cross-linked peptides determined from our analysis. Probabilistic modeling of the yeast 19S AAA-ATPase ring (i.e., Rpt1-6) has produced an ML topology that is in excellent agreement with known topologies of its orthologs. In addition, similar analysis was carried out on the 19S lid subcomplex, whose predicted ML topology corroborates recently reported electron microscopy studies. Together, we have demonstrated the effectiveness and potential of probabilistic modeling for unraveling topologies of protein complexes using cross-linking data. This report describes the first study of the 19S RP topology using a new integrated strategy combining chemical cross-linking, mass spectrometry, and probabilistic modeling. Our results have provided a solid foundation to advance our understanding of the 19S RP architecture at peptide level resolution. Furthermore, our methodology developed here is a valuable proteomic tool that can be generalized for elucidating the structures of protein complexes.
Aspartase/fumarase superfamily: a common catalytic strategy involving general base-catalyzed formation of a highly stabilized aci-carboxylate intermediate.	Members of the aspartase/fumarase superfamily share a common tertiary and quaternary fold, as well as a similar active site architecture; the superfamily includes aspartase, fumarase, argininosuccinate lyase, adenylosuccinate lyase, -crystallin, and 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme (CMLE). These enzymes all process succinyl-containing substrates, leading to the formation of fumarate as the common product (except for the CMLE-catalyzed reaction, which results in the formation of a lactone). In the past few years, X-ray crystallographic analysis of several superfamily members in complex with substrate, product, or substrate analogues has provided detailed insights into their substrate binding modes and catalytic mechanisms. This structural work, combined with earlier mechanistic studies, revealed that members of the aspartase/fumarase superfamily use a common catalytic strategy, which involves general base-catalyzed formation of a stabilized aci-carboxylate (or enediolate) intermediate and the participation of a highly flexible loop, containing the signature sequence GSSxxPxKxN (named the SS loop), in substrate binding and catalysis.
Crystal structure of elongator subcomplex Elp4-6.	Elongator is a multiprotein complex composed of two subcomplexes, Elp1-3 and Elp4-6. Elongator is highly conserved between yeast and humans and plays an important role in RNA polymerase II-mediated transcriptional elongation and many other processes, including cytoskeleton organization, exocytosis, and tRNA modification. Here, we determined the crystal structure of the Elp4-6 subcomplex of yeast. The overall structure of Elp4-6 revealed that Elp6 acts as a bridge to assemble Elp4 and Elp5. Detailed structural and sequence analyses revealed that each subunit in the Elp4-6 subcomplex forms a RecA-ATPase-like fold, although it lacks the key sequence signature of ATPases. Site-directed mutagenesis and biochemical analyses indicated that the Elp4-6 subcomplex can assemble into a hexameric ring-shaped structure in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, GST pulldown assays showed that the ring-shaped assembly of the Elp4-6 subcomplex is important for its specific histone H3 binding. Our results may shed light on the substrate recognition and assembly of the holo-Elongator complex.
Crystal structure of the superfamily 1 helicase from Tomato mosaic virus.	The genomes of the Tomato mosaic virus and many other plant and animal positive-strand RNA viruses of agronomic and medical importance encode superfamily 1 helicases. Although helicases play important roles in viral replication, the crystal structures of viral superfamily 1 helicases have not been determined. Here, we report the crystal structure of a fragment (S666 to Q1116) of the replication protein from Tomato mosaic virus. The structure reveals a novel N-terminal domain tightly associated with a helicase core. The helicase core contains two RecA-like / domains without any of the accessory domain insertions that are found in other superfamily 1 helicases. The N-terminal domain contains a flexible loop, a long -helix, and an antiparallel six-stranded -sheet. On the basis of the structure, we constructed deletion mutants of the S666-to-Q1116 fragment and performed split-ubiquitin-based interaction assays in Saccharomyces cerevisiae with TOM1 and ARL8, host proteins that are essential for tomato mosaic virus RNA replication. The results suggested that both TOM1 and ARL8 interact with the long -helix in the N-terminal domain and that TOM1 also interacts with the helicase core. Prediction of secondary structures in other viral superfamily 1 helicases and comparison of those structures with the S666-to-Q1116 structure suggested that these helicases have a similar fold. Our results provide a structural basis of viral superfamily 1 helicases.
Remodeling of nucleosome-dimer particles with yIsw2 promotes their association with ALL-1 SET domain in vitro.	Functioning of histone lysine methyltransferases (HKMTs) involves interactions of their catalytic domain "SET" with the N-termini of histone H3. However, these interactions are restricted in canonical nucleosomes due to the limited accessibility of H3 termini. Here we investigated whether nucleosome remodeling with the yeast Isw2 affects nucleosome affinity to the SET domain of ALL-1 HKMT. Reconstitution of mononucleosomes by salt dilutions also produces some nucleosome-dimer particles (self-associated mononucleosomes, described by: Tatchell and van Holde (1977) Biochemistry, 16, 5295-5303). The GST-tagged SET-domain polypeptide of ALL-1 was assayed for binding to assembled mononucleosomes and nucleosome-dimer particles, either intact or remodeled with purified yeast Isw2. Remodeling of mononucleosomes does not noticeably affect their affinity to SET domain; however, yIsw2 remodeling of nucleosome-dimer particles facilitated their association with GST-SET polypeptide. Therefore, it is conceivable that nucleosome interactions in trans could be implicated in the maintenance of chromatin methylation patterns in vivo.
Mgr2 promotes coupling of the mitochondrial presequence translocase to partner complexes.	Many mitochondrial proteins are synthesized with N-terminal presequences in the cytosol. The presequence translocase of the inner mitochondrial membrane (TIM23) translocates preproteins into and across the membrane and associates with the matrix-localized import motor. The TIM23 complex consists of three core components and Tim21, which interacts with the translocase of the outer membrane (TOM) and the respiratory chain. We have identified a new subunit of the TIM23 complex, the inner membrane protein Mgr2. Mitochondria lacking Mgr2 were deficient in the Tim21-containing sorting form of the TIM23 complex. Mgr2 was required for binding of Tim21 to TIM23(CORE), revealing a binding chain of TIM23(CORE)-Mgr2/Tim21-respiratory chain. Mgr2-deficient yeast cells were defective in growth at elevated temperature, and the mitochondria were impaired in TOM-TIM23 coupling and the import of presequence-carrying preproteins. We conclude that Mgr2 is a coupling factor of the presequence translocase crucial for cell growth at elevated temperature and for efficient protein import.
Mechanistic and structural analyses of the role of His67 in the yeast polyamine oxidase Fms1.	The flavoprotein oxidase Fms1 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae catalyzes the oxidation of spermine and N(1)-acetylspermine to spermidine and 3-aminopropanal or N-acetyl-3-aminopropanal. Within the active site of Fms1, His67 is positioned to form hydrogen bonds with the polyamine substrate. This residue is also conserved in other polyamine oxidases. The catalytic properties of H67Q, H67N, and H67A Fms1 have been characterized to evaluate the role of this residue in catalysis. With both spermine and N(1)-acetylspermine as the amine substrate, the value of the first-order rate constant for flavin reduction decreases 2-3 orders of magnitude, with the H67Q mutation having the smallest effect and H67N the largest. The k(cat)/K(O2) value changes very little upon mutation with N(1)-acetylspermine as the amine substrate and decreases only an order of magnitude with spermine. The k(cat)/K(M)-pH profiles with N(1)-acetylspermine are bell-shaped for all the mutants; the similarity to the profile of the wild-type enzyme rules out His67 as being responsible for either of the pK(a) values. The pH profiles for the rate constant for flavin reduction for all the mutant enzymes similarly show the same pK(a) as wild-type Fms1, about 7.4; this pK(a) is assigned to the substrate N4. The k(cat)/K(O2)-pH profiles for wild-type Fms1 and the H67A enzyme both show a pK(a) of about 6.9; this suggests His67 is not responsible for this pH behavior. With the H67Q, H67N, and H67A enzymes the k(cat) value decreases when a single residue is protonated, as is the case with the wild-type enzyme. The structure of H67Q Fms1 has been determined at a resolution of 2.4 . The structure shows that the mutation disrupts a hydrogen bond network in the active site, suggesting that His67 is important both for direct interactions with the substrate and to maintain the overall active site structure.
Small heat shock proteins potentiate amyloid dissolution by protein disaggregases from yeast and humans.	How small heat shock proteins (sHsps) might empower proteostasis networks to control beneficial prions or disassemble pathological amyloid is unknown. Here, we establish that yeast sHsps, Hsp26 and Hsp42, inhibit prionogenesis by the [PSI+] prion protein, Sup35, via distinct and synergistic mechanisms. Hsp42 prevents conformational rearrangements within molten oligomers that enable de novo prionogenesis and collaborates with Hsp70 to attenuate self-templating. By contrast, Hsp26 inhibits self-templating upon binding assembled prions. sHsp binding destabilizes Sup35 prions and promotes their disaggregation by Hsp104, Hsp70, and Hsp40. In yeast, Hsp26 or Hsp42 overexpression prevents [PSI+] induction, cures [PSI+], and potentiates [PSI+]-curing by Hsp104 overexpression. In vitro, sHsps enhance Hsp104-catalyzed disaggregation of pathological amyloid forms of -synuclein and polyglutamine. Unexpectedly, in the absence of Hsp104, sHsps promote an unprecedented, gradual depolymerization of Sup35 prions by Hsp110, Hsp70, and Hsp40. This unanticipated amyloid-depolymerase activity is conserved from yeast to humans, which lack Hsp104 orthologues. A human sHsp, HspB5, stimulates depolymerization of -synuclein amyloid by human Hsp110, Hsp70, and Hsp40. Thus, we elucidate a heretofore-unrecognized human amyloid-depolymerase system that could have applications in various neurodegenerative disorders.
Kar3Vik1, a member of the kinesin-14 superfamily, shows a novel kinesin microtubule binding pattern.	Kinesin-14 motors generate microtubule minus-end-directed force used in mitosis and meiosis. These motors are dimeric and operate with a nonprocessive powerstroke mechanism, but the role of the second head in motility has been unclear. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the Kinesin-14 Kar3 forms a heterodimer with either Vik1 or Cik1. Vik1 contains a motor homology domain that retains microtubule binding properties but lacks a nucleotide binding site. In this case, both heads are implicated in motility. Here, we show through structural determination of a C-terminal heterodimeric Kar3Vik1, electron microscopy, equilibrium binding, and motility that at the start of the cycle, Kar3Vik1 binds to or occludes two -tubulin subunits on adjacent protofilaments. The cycle begins as Vik1 collides with the microtubule followed by Kar3 microtubule association and ADP release, thereby destabilizing the Vik1-microtubule interaction and positioning the motor for the start of the powerstroke. The results indicate that head-head communication is mediated through the adjoining coiled coil.
MC EMiNEM maps the interaction landscape of the Mediator.	The Mediator is a highly conserved, large multiprotein complex that is involved essentially in the regulation of eukaryotic mRNA transcription. It acts as a general transcription factor by integrating regulatory signals from gene-specific activators or repressors to the RNA Polymerase II. The internal network of interactions between Mediator subunits that conveys these signals is largely unknown. Here, we introduce MC EMiNEM, a novel method for the retrieval of functional dependencies between proteins that have pleiotropic effects on mRNA transcription. MC EMiNEM is based on Nested Effects Models (NEMs), a class of probabilistic graphical models that extends the idea of hierarchical clustering. It combines mode-hopping Monte Carlo (MC) sampling with an Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm for NEMs to increase sensitivity compared to existing methods. A meta-analysis of four Mediator perturbation studies in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, three of which are unpublished, provides new insight into the Mediator signaling network. In addition to the known modular organization of the Mediator subunits, MC EMiNEM reveals a hierarchical ordering of its internal information flow, which is putatively transmitted through structural changes within the complex. We identify the N-terminus of Med7 as a peripheral entity, entailing only local structural changes upon perturbation, while the C-terminus of Med7 and Med19 appear to play a central role. MC EMiNEM associates Mediator subunits to most directly affected genes, which, in conjunction with gene set enrichment analysis, allows us to construct an interaction map of Mediator subunits and transcription factors.
Proteomic analysis of interactors for yeast protein arginine methyltransferase Hmt1 reveals novel substrate and insights into additional biological roles.	Protein arginine methylation is a PTM catalyzed by an evolutionarily conserved family of enzymes called protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs), with PRMT1 being the most conserved member of this enzyme family. This modification has emerged to be an important regulator of protein functions. To better understand the role of PRMTs in cellular pathways and functions, we have carried out a proteomic profiling experiment to comprehensively identify the physical interactors of Hmt1, the budding yeast homolog for human PRMT1. Using a dual-enzymatic digestion linear trap quadrupole/Orbitrap proteomic strategy, we identified a total of 108 proteins that specifically copurify with Hmt1 by tandem affinity purification. A reverse coimmunoprecipitation experiment was used to confirm Hmt1's physical association with Bre5, Mtr4, Snf2, Sum1, and Ssd1, five proteins that were identified as Hmt1-specific interactors in multiple biological replicates. To determine whether the identified Hmt1-interactors had the potential to act as an Hmt1 substrate, we used published bioinformatics algorithms that predict the presence and location of potential methylarginines for each identified interactor. One of the top hits from this analysis, Snf2, was experimentally confirmed as a robust substrate of Hmt1 in vitro. Overall, our data provide a feasible proteomic approach that aid in the better understanding of PRMT1's roles within a cell.
De novo correction of mass measurement error in low resolution tandem MS spectra for shotgun proteomics.	We report an algorithm designed for the calibration of low resolution peptide mass spectra. Our algorithm is implemented in a program called FineTune, which corrects systematic mass measurement error in 1min, with no input required besides the mass spectra themselves. The mass measurement accuracy for a set of spectra collected on an LTQ-Velos improved 20-fold from -0.17760.0010m/z to 0.00780.0006m/z after calibration (avg95% confidence interval). The precision in mass measurement was improved due to the correction of non-linear variation in mass measurement accuracy across the m/z range.
Topology of the microsomal glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase Gpt2p/Gat1p of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	All glycerophospholipids are made from phosphatidic acid, which, according to the traditional view, is generated at the cytosolic surface of the ER. In yeast, phosphatidic acid is synthesized de novo by two acyl-CoA-dependent acylation reactions. The first is catalysed by one of the two homologous glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferases Gpt2p/Gat1p and Sct1p/Gat2p, the second by one of the two 1-acyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferases Slc1p and Ale1p/Slc4p. To study the biogenesis and topology of Gpt2p we observed the location of dual topology reporters inserted after various transmembrane helices. Moreover, using microsomes, we probed the accessibility of natural and substituted cysteine residues to a membrane impermeant alkylating agent and tested the protease sensitivity of various epitope tags inserted into Gpt2p. Finally, we assayed the sensitivity of the acyltransferase activity to membrane impermeant agents targeting lysine residues. By all these criteria we find that the most conserved motifs of Gpt2p and its functionally relevant lysines are oriented towards the ER lumen. Thus, the first step in biosynthesis of phosphatidic acid in yeast seems to occur in the ER lumen and substrates may have to cross the ER membrane.
Neck rotation and neck mimic docking in the noncatalytic Kar3-associated protein Vik1.	Kar3Vik1 is a heterodimeric kinesin with one catalytic subunit (Kar3) and one noncatalytic subunit (Vik1).
Flavinylation and assembly of succinate dehydrogenase are dependent on the C-terminal tail of the flavoprotein subunit.	Succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) requires a covalent addition of FAD for catalytic function.
Regulation of chaperone effects on a yeast prion by cochaperone Sgt2.	Yeast prions, based on self-seeded highly ordered fibrous aggregates (amyloids), serve as a model for human amyloid diseases. Propagation of yeast prions depends on the balance between chaperones of the Hsp100 and Hsp70 families. The yeast prion [PSI(+)] can be eliminated by an excess of the chaperone Hsp104. This effect is reversed by an excess of the chaperone Hsp70-Ssa. Here we show that the actions of Hsp104 and Ssa on [PSI(+)] are modulated by the small glutamine-rich tetratricopeptide cochaperone Sgt2. Sgt2 is conserved from yeast to humans, has previously been implicated in the guided entry of tail-anchored proteins (GET) trafficking pathway, and is known to interact with Hsps, cytosolic Get proteins, and tail-anchored proteins. We demonstrate that Sgt2 increases the ability of excess Ssa to counteract [PSI(+)] curing by excess Hsp104. Deletion of SGT2 also restores trafficking of a tail-anchored protein in cells with a disrupted GET pathway. One region of Sgt2 interacts both with the prion domain of Sup35 and with tail-anchored proteins. Sgt2 levels are increased in response to the presence of a prion when major Hsps are not induced. Our data implicate Sgt2 as an amyloid "sensor" and a regulator of chaperone targeting to different types of aggregation-prone proteins.
The conserved Bud20 zinc finger protein is a new component of the ribosomal 60S subunit export machinery.	The nuclear export of the preribosomal 60S (pre-60S) subunit is coordinated with late steps in ribosome assembly. Here, we show that Bud20, a conserved C(2)H(2)-type zinc finger protein, is an unrecognized shuttling factor required for the efficient export of pre-60S subunits. Bud20 associates with late pre-60S particles in the nucleoplasm and accompanies them into the cytoplasm, where it is released through the action of the Drg1 AAA-ATPase. Cytoplasmic Bud20 is then reimported via a Kap123-dependent pathway. The deletion of Bud20 induces a strong pre-60S export defect and causes synthetic lethality when combined with mutant alleles of known pre-60S subunit export factors. The function of Bud20 in ribosome export depends on a short conserved N-terminal sequence, as we observed that mutations or the deletion of this motif impaired 60S subunit export and generated the genetic link to other pre-60S export factors. We suggest that the shuttling Bud20 is recruited to the nascent 60S subunit via its central zinc finger rRNA binding domain to facilitate the subsequent nuclear export of the preribosome employing its N-terminal extension.
The channel-forming Sym1 protein is transported by the TIM23 complex in a presequence-independent manner.	The majority of multispanning inner mitochondrial membrane proteins utilize internal targeting signals, which direct them to the carrier translocase (TIM22 complex), for their import. MPV17 and its Saccharomyces cerevisiae orthologue Sym1 are multispanning inner membrane proteins of unknown function with an amino-terminal presequence that suggests they may be targeted to the mitochondria. Mutations affecting MPV17 are associated with mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome (MDDS). Reconstitution of purified Sym1 into planar lipid bilayers and electrophysiological measurements have demonstrated that Sym1 forms a membrane pore. To address the biogenesis of Sym1, which oligomerizes in the inner mitochondrial membrane, we studied its import and assembly pathway. Sym1 forms a transport intermediate at the translocase of the outer membrane (TOM) complex. Surprisingly, Sym1 was not transported into mitochondria by an amino-terminal signal, and in contrast to what has been observed in carrier proteins, Sym1 transport and assembly into the inner membrane were independent of small translocase of mitochondrial inner membrane (TIM) and TIM22 complexes. Instead, Sym1 required the presequence of translocase for its biogenesis. Our analyses have revealed a novel transport mechanism for a polytopic membrane protein in which internal signals direct the precursor into the inner membrane via the TIM23 complex, indicating a presequence-independent function of this translocase.
The last piece in the vitamin B1 biosynthesis puzzle: structural and functional insight into yeast 4-amino-5-hydroxymethyl-2-methylpyrimidine phosphate (HMP-P) synthase.	Vitamin B(1) is essential for all organisms being well recognized as a necessary cofactor for key metabolic pathways such as glycolysis, and was more recently implicated in DNA damage responses. Little is known about the enzyme responsible for the formation of the pyrimidine moiety (4-amino-5-hydroxymethyl-2-methylpyrimidine phosphate (HMP-P) synthase). We report a structure-function study of the HMP-P synthase from yeast, THI5p. Our crystallographic structure shows that THI5p is a mix between periplasmic binding proteins and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzymes. Mutational and yeast complementation studies identify the key residues for HMP-P biosynthesis as well as the use of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate as a substrate rather than as a cofactor. Furthermore, we could show that iron binding to HMP-P synthase is essential for the reaction.
eIF2 mutation that disrupts eIF2 complex integrity links intellectual disability to impaired translation initiation.	Together with GTP and initiator methionyl-tRNA, translation initiation factor eIF2 forms a ternary complex that binds the 40S ribosome and then scans an mRNA to select the AUG start codon for protein synthesis. Here, we show that a human X-chromosomal neurological disorder characterized by intellectual disability and microcephaly is caused by a missense mutation in eIF2 (encoded by EIF2S3), the core subunit of the heterotrimeric eIF2 complex. Biochemical studies of human cells overexpressing the eIF2 mutant and of yeast eIF2 with the analogous mutation revealed a defect in binding the eIF2 subunit to eIF2. Consistent with this loss of eIF2 integrity, the yeast eIF2 mutation impaired translation start codon selection and eIF2 function in vivo in a manner that was suppressed by overexpressing eIF2. These findings directly link intellectual disability to impaired translation initiation, and provide a mechanistic basis for the human disease due to partial loss of eIF2 function.
Active site analysis of yeast flavohemoglobin based on its structure with a small ligand or econazole.	Flavohemoglobins (flavoHbs) serve various microorganisms as the major protective enzymes against NO-mediated toxicity. FlavoHbs dominantly function as an NO dioxygenase (O2+ NO NO3 -), the required electron being shuttled from NAD(P)H via FAD to the heme iron. The X-ray structures of the flavoHb from Saccharomycescerevisae presented in complex with an unknown small ligand (Yhb) and with econazole (Yhb(E) ) at 2.1 and 3.0 resolutions, respectively, reveal a high architectural accordance between prokaryotic and eukaryotic family members. The active site is characterized by a proximal heme side with a strictly conserved histidine, glutamate and tyrosine triad and a highly variable distal heme side with helix shifts up to 10  mainly dependent on the presence/absence and size of the bound ligand. In yeast flavoHb, the small heme iron ligand adjusts a catalytically productive active site geometry that reliably suggests the NO and O(2)  binding site. O(2)  is activated by its ligation to an electron-rich heme iron and a hydrogen bond to Tyr29 and Gln53. High active site similarities between eukaryotic Yhb and bacterial single-domain globins argue for identical biochemical reactions. Binding of the bulky econazole implies a large-scale induced-fit process concerning, in particular, an outwards shift of helices B and E to increase the active site pocket. Yeast Yhb and Ralstoniaeutropha flavoHb both structurally studied in complex with econazole indicate conformational differences between the inhibitors and the polypeptide primarily caused by stable binding of a phospholipid to the latter and by distinct loop D structures.
CHD1 remodelers regulate nucleosome spacing in vitro and align nucleosomal arrays over gene coding regions in S. pombe.	Nucleosome positioning governs access to eukaryotic genomes. Many genes show a stereotypic organisation at their 5'end: a nucleosome free region just upstream of the transcription start site (TSS) followed by a regular nucleosomal array over the coding region. The determinants for this pattern are unclear, but nucleosome remodelers are likely critical. Here we study the role of remodelers in global nucleosome positioning in S. pombe and the corresponding changes in expression. We find a striking evolutionary shift in remodeler usage between budding and fission yeast. The S. pombe RSC complex does not seem to be involved in nucleosome positioning, despite its prominent role in S. cerevisiae. While S. pombe lacks ISWI-type remodelers, it has two CHD1-type ATPases, Hrp1 and Hrp3. We demonstrate nucleosome spacing activity for Hrp1 and Hrp3 in vitro, and that together they are essential for linking regular genic arrays to most TSSs in vivo. Impaired arrays in the absence of either or both remodelers may lead to increased cryptic antisense transcription, but overall gene expression levels are only mildly affected.
The shuttling scaffold model for prevention of yeast pheromone pathway misactivation.	The molecular scaffold in the yeast pheromone pathway, Ste5, shuttles continuously between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. Ste5 undergoes oligomerization reaction in the nucleus. Upon pheromone stimulation, the Ste5 dimer is rapidly exported out of the nucleus and recruited to the plasma membrane for pathway activation. This clever device on part of the yeast cell is thought to prevent pathway misactivation at high enough levels of Ste5 in the absence of pheromone. We have built a spatiotemporal model of signaling in this pathway to describe its regulation. Our present work underscores the importance of spatial modeling of cell signaling networks to understand their control and functioning.
Identification of a novel nuclear-localized adenylate kinase 6 from Arabidopsis thaliana as an essential stem growth factor.	Adenylate kinase (AK; EC 2.7.4.3) is highly conserved across a wide range of organisms, including Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Homo sapiens. While AK6 orthologs play important roles in the growth of yeast and worms, the physiological function of AK6 in A. thaliana is still unknown. In this study, we first cloned and expressed Arabidopsis adenylate kinase 6 (AAK6). Enzyme assays revealed that AAK6 has characteristic adenylate kinase properties, with ATP as the preferred phosphate donor and AMP as the best phosphate acceptor. A subcellular localization assay demonstrated that AAK6 had a predominant nuclear localization. Through biochemical purification and mass spectrometry analysis, a putative homolog of the S. cerevisiae Rps14 protein was identified as a partner of AAK6. Most importantly, we observed that aak6 T-DNA insertion mutants had decreased stem growth compared with wild-type plants. These data indicate that AAK6 exhibits adenylate kinase activity and is an essential growth factor in Arabidopsis.
Structure of the pre-60S ribosomal subunit with nuclear export factor Arx1 bound at the exit tunnel.	Preribosomal particles evolve in the nucleus through transient interaction with biogenesis factors before export to the cytoplasm. Here, we report the architecture of the late pre-60S particle, purified from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, through Arx1, a nuclear export factor with structural homology to methionine aminopeptidases, or its binding partner Alb1. Cryo-EM reconstruction of the Arx1 particle at 11.9- resolution reveals regions of extra density on the pre-60S particle attributed to associated biogenesis factors, confirming the immature state of the nascent subunit. One of these densities could be unambiguously assigned to Arx1. Immunoelectron microscopy and UV cross-linking localize Arx1 close to the ribosomal exit tunnel, in direct contact with ES27, a highly dynamic eukaryotic rRNA expansion segment. The binding of Arx1 at the exit tunnel may position this export factor to prevent premature recruitment of ribosome-associated factors active during translation.
Cryo-EM structures of Arx1 and maturation factors Rei1 and Jjj1 bound to the 60S ribosomal subunit.	Eukaryotic ribosome biogenesis requires many protein factors that facilitate the assembly, nuclear export and final maturation of 40S and 60S particles. We have biochemically characterized ribosomal complexes of the yeast 60S-biogenesis factor Arx1 and late-maturation factors Rei1 and Jjj1 and determined their cryo-EM structures. Arx1 was visualized bound to the 60S subunit together with Rei1, at 8.1- resolution, to reveal the molecular details of Arx1 binding whereby Arx1 arrests the eukaryotic-specific rRNA expansion segment 27 near the polypeptide tunnel exit. Rei1 and Jjj1, which have been implicated in Arx1 recycling, bind in the vicinity of Arx1 and form a network of interactions. We suggest that, in addition to the role of Arx1 during pre-60S nuclear export, the binding of Arx1 conformationally locks the pre-60S subunit and inhibits the premature association of nascent chain-processing factors to the polypeptide tunnel exit.
Generating extracellular amyloid aggregates using E. coli cells.	Diverse proteins are known to be capable of forming amyloid aggregates, self-seeding fibrillar assemblies that may be biologically functional or pathological. Well-known examples include neurodegenerative disease-associated proteins that misfold as amyloid, fungal prion proteins that can transition to a self-propagating amyloid form and certain bacterial proteins that fold as amyloid at the cell surface and promote biofilm formation. To further explore the diversity of amyloidogenic proteins, generally applicable methods for identifying them are critical. Here we describe a cell-based method for generating amyloid aggregates that relies on the natural ability of Escherichia coli cells to elaborate amyloid fibrils at the cell surface. We use several different yeast prion proteins and the human huntingtin protein to show that protein secretion via this specialized export pathway promotes acquisition of the amyloid fold specifically for proteins that have an inherent amyloid-forming propensity. Furthermore, our findings establish the potential of this E. coli-based system to facilitate the implementation of high-throughput screens for identifying amyloidogenic proteins and modulators of amyloid aggregation.
Cellular strategies for regulating functional and nonfunctional protein aggregation.	Growing evidence suggests that aggregation-prone proteins are both harmful and functional for a cell. How do cellular systems balance the detrimental and beneficial effect of protein aggregation? We reveal that aggregation-prone proteins are subject to differential transcriptional, translational, and degradation control compared to nonaggregation-prone proteins, which leads to their decreased synthesis, low abundance, and high turnover. Genetic modulators that enhance the aggregation phenotype are enriched in genes that influence expression homeostasis. Moreover, genes encoding aggregation-prone proteins are more likely to be harmful when overexpressed. The trends are evolutionarily conserved and suggest a strategy whereby cellular mechanisms specifically modulate the availability of aggregation-prone proteins to (1) keep concentrations below the critical ones required for aggregation and (2) shift the equilibrium between the monomeric and oligomeric/aggregate form, as explained by Le Chatelier's principle. This strategy may prevent formation of undesirable aggregates and keep functional assemblies/aggregates under control.
Crystallization and preliminary X-ray crystallographic analysis of the oxysterol-binding protein Osh3 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Oxysterol-binding protein (OSBP) related proteins (ORPs) are conserved from yeast to humans and are implicated in regulation of sterol homeostasis and in signal transduction pathways. Osh3 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a pleckstrin-homology (PH) domain-containing ORP member that regulates phosphoinositide metabolism at endoplasmic reticulum-plasma membrane contact sites. The N-terminal PH domain of Osh3 was purified and crystallized as a lysozyme fusion and the resulting crystal diffracted to 2.3 resolution. The crystal belonged to the monoclinic space group C2, with unit-cell parameters a=98.03, b=91.31, c=84.13, =81.41. With two molecules in the asymmetric unit, the Matthews coefficient was 3.133Da(-1). Initial attempts to solve the structure by molecular-replacement techniques using T4 lysozyme as a search model were successful. The C-terminal OSBP-related domain (OBD) of Osh3 was crystallized by the vapour-diffusion method and the resulting crystal diffracted to 1.5 resolution. The crystal was orthorhombic, belonging to space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a=41.57, b=87.52, c=100.58. With one molecule in the asymmetric unit, the Matthews coefficient was 2.013Da(-1). Initial attempts to solve the structure by the single-wavelength anomalous dispersion technique using bromine were successful.
Crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction analysis of the invertase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae invertase (ScInv) is an enzyme encoded by the SUC2 gene that releases -fructose from the nonreducing termini of various -D-fructofuranoside substrates. Its ability to produce 6-kestose by transglycosylation makes this enzyme an interesting research target for applications in industrial biotechnology. The native enzyme, which presents a high degree of oligomerization, was crystallized by vapour-diffusion methods. The crystals belonged to space group P3(1)21, with unit-cell parameters a=268.6, b=268.6, c=224.4. The crystals diffracted to 3.3 resolution and gave complete data sets using a synchrotron X-ray source.
Large multiple transmembrane domain fragments of a G protein-coupled receptor: biosynthesis, purification, and biophysical studies.	To conduct biophysical analyses on large domains of GPCRs, multimilligram quantities of highly homogeneous proteins are necessary. This communication discusses the biosynthesis of four transmembrane and five transmembrane-containing fragments of Ste2p, a GPCR recognizing the Saccharomyces cerevisiae tridecapeptide pheromone -factor. The target fragments contained the predicted four N-terminal Ste2p[G(31) -A(198) ] (4TMN), four C-terminal Ste2p[T(155) -L(340) ] (4TMC), or five C-terminal Ste2p[I(120) -L(340) ] (5TMC) transmembrane segments of Ste2p. 4TMN was expressed as a fusion protein using a modified pMMHa vector in L-arabinose-induced Escherichia coli BL21-AI, and cleaved with cyanogen bromide. 4TMC and 5TMC were obtained by direct expression using a pET21a vector in IPTG-induced E. coli BL21(DE3) cells. 4TMC and 5TMC were biosynthesized on a preparative scale, isolated in multimilligram amounts, characterized by MS and investigated by biophysical methods. CD spectroscopy indicated the expected highly -helical content for 4TMC and 5TMC in membrane mimetic environments. Tryptophan fluorescence showed that 5TMC integrated into the nonpolar region of 1-stearoyl-2-hydroxy-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1'-rac-glycerol) micelles. HSQC-TROSY investigations revealed that [(15) N]-labeled 5TMC in 50% trifluoroethanol-d(2) /H(2) O/0.05%-trifluoroacetic acid was stable enough to conduct long multidimensional NMR measurements. The entire Ste2p GPCR was not readily reconstituted from the first two and last five or first three and last four transmembrane domains.
Hsp104 as a key modulator of prion-mediated oxidative stress in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Maintenance of cellular redox homoeostasis forms an important part of the cellular defence mechanism and continued cell viability. Despite extensive studies, the role of the chaperone Hsp104 (heat-shock protein of 102 kDa) in propagation of misfolded protein aggregates in the cell and generation of oxidative stress remains poorly understood. Expression of RNQ1-RFP in Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells led to the generation of the prion form of the protein and increased oxidative stress. In the present study, we show that disruption of Hsp104 in an isogenic yeast strain led to solubilization of RNQ1-RFP. This reduced the oxidative stress generated in the cell. The higher level of oxidative stress in the Hsp104-containing (parental) strain correlated with lower activity of almost all of the intracellular antioxidant enzymes assayed. Surprisingly, this did not correspond with the gene expression analysis data. To compensate for the decrease in protein translation induced by a high level of reactive oxygen species, transcriptional up-regulation takes place. This explains the discrepancy observed between the transcription level and functional enzymatic product. Our results show that in a Hsp104 strain, due to lower oxidative stress, no such mismatch is observed, corresponding with higher cell viability. Thus Hsp104 is indirectly responsible for enhancing the oxidative stress in a prion-rich environment.
Reproducibility of combinatorial peptide ligand libraries for proteome capture evaluated by selected reaction monitoring.	Systems biology studies require the capability to quantify with high precision proteins spanning a broad range of abundances across multiple samples. However, the broad range of protein expression in cells often precludes the detection of low-abundance proteins. Different sample processing techniques can be applied to increase proteome coverage. Among these, combinatorial (hexa)peptide ligand libraries (CPLLs) bound to solid matrices have been used to specifically capture and detect low-abundance proteins in complex samples. To assess whether CPLL capture can be applied in systems biology studies involving the precise quantitation of proteins across a multitude of samples, we evaluated its performance across the whole range of protein abundances in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We used selected reaction monitoring assays for a set of target proteins covering a broad abundance range to quantitatively evaluate the precision of the approach and its capability to detect low-abundance proteins. Replicated CPLL-isolates showed an average variability of ~10% in the amount of the isolated proteins. The high reproducibility of the technique was not dependent on the abundance of the protein or the amount of beads used for the capture. However, the protein-to-bead ratio affected the enrichment of specific proteins. We did not observe a normalization effect of CPLL beads on protein abundances. However, CPLLs enriched for and depleted specific sets of proteins and thus changed the abundances of proteins from a whole proteome extract. This allowed the identification of ~400 proteins otherwise undetected in an untreated sample, under the experimental conditions used. CPLL capture is thus a useful tool to increase protein identifications in proteomic experiments, but it should be coupled to the analysis of untreated samples, to maximize proteome coverage. Our data also confirms that CPLL capture is reproducible and can be confidently used in quantitative proteomic experiments.
Functional attributes of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae meiotic recombinase Dmc1.	The role of Dmc1 as a meiosis-specific general recombinase was first demonstrated in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Progress in understanding the biochemical mechanism of ScDmc1 has been hampered by its tendency to form inactive aggregates. We have found that the inclusion of ATP during protein purification prevents Dmc1 aggregation. ScDmc1 so prepared is capable of forming D-loops and responsive to its accessory factors Rad54 and Rdh54. Negative staining electron microscopy and iterative helical real-space reconstruction revealed that the ScDmc1-ssDNA nucleoprotein filament harbors 6.5 protomers per turn with a pitch of 106. The ScDmc1 purification procedure and companion molecular analyses should facilitate future studies on this recombinase. 
Remodeling of the Rad51 DNA strand-exchange protein by the Srs2 helicase.	Homologous recombination is associated with the dynamic assembly and disassembly of DNA-protein complexes. Assembly of a nucleoprotein filament comprising ssDNA and the RecA homolog, Rad51, is a key step required for homology search during recombination. The budding yeast Srs2 DNA translocase is known to dismantle Rad51 filament in vitro. However, there is limited evidence to support the dismantling activity of Srs2 in vivo. Here, we show that Srs2 indeed disrupts Rad51-containing complexes from chromosomes during meiosis. Overexpression of Srs2 during the meiotic prophase impairs meiotic recombination and removes Rad51 from meiotic chromosomes. This dismantling activity is specific for Rad51, as Srs2 Overexpression does not remove Dmc1 (a meiosis-specific Rad51 homolog), Rad52 (a Rad51 mediator), or replication protein A (RPA; a single-stranded DNA-binding protein). Rather, RPA replaces Rad51 under these conditions. A mutant Srs2 lacking helicase activity cannot remove Rad51 from meiotic chromosomes. Interestingly, the Rad51-binding domain of Srs2, which is critical for Rad51-dismantling activity in vitro, is not essential for this activity in vivo. Our results suggest that a precise level of Srs2, in the form of the Srs2 translocase, is required to appropriately regulate the Rad51 nucleoprotein filament dynamics during meiosis. 
Mutational analysis of Sse1 (Hsp110) suggests an integral role for this chaperone in yeast prion propagation in vivo.	The yeast Hsp110 chaperone Sse1 is a conserved protein that is a noncanonical member of the Hsp70 protein superfamily. Sse1 influences the cellular response to heat stress and has also been implicated in playing a role in the propagation of prions in yeast. Sse1 can seemingly exert its effects in vivo through direct or indirect actions by influencing the nucleotide exchange activity of canonical cytosolic Hsp70s. Using a genetic screen based on the inability to propagate the yeast [PSI(+)] prion, we have identified 13 new Sse1 mutants that are predicted to alter chaperone function through a variety of different mechanisms. Not only are these new Sse1 mutants altered in the ability to propagate and cure yeast prions but also to varying degrees in the ability to grow at elevated temperatures. The expression levels of chaperone proteins known to influence yeast prion propagation are unaltered in the Sse1 mutants, suggesting that the observed phenotypic effects are caused by direct functional alterations in these mutants. Mapping the location of the mutants onto the Sse1 crystal structure suggests that more than one functional alteration in Sse1 may result in changes in prion propagation and ability to function at elevated temperatures. All Sse1 mutants isolated provide essential functions in the cell under normal growth conditions, further demonstrating that essential chaperone functions in vivo can to some degree at least be detached from those related to propagation of prions. Our results suggest that Sse1 can influence prion propagation through a variety of different mechanisms. 
Crystal structure of peroxisomal targeting signal-2 bound to its receptor complex Pex7p-Pex21p.	Appropriate targeting of matrix proteins to peroxisomes is mainly directed by two types of peroxisomal targeting signals, PTS1 and PTS2. Although the basis of PTS1 recognition has been revealed by structural studies, that of PTS2 recognition remains elusive. Here we present the crystal structure of a heterotrimeric PTS2-recognition complex from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, containing Pex7p, the C-terminal region of Pex21p and the PTS2 of the peroxisomal 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase. Pex7p forms a -propeller structure and provides a platform for cooperative interactions with both the amphipathic PTS2 helix and Pex21p. The C-terminal region of Pex21p directly covers the hydrophobic surfaces of both Pex7p and PTS2, and the resulting hydrophobic core is the primary determinant of stable complex formation. Together with in vivo and in vitro functional assays of Pex7p and Pex21p variants, our findings reveal the molecular mechanism of PTS2 recognition. 
An insertion peptide in yeast glycyl-tRNA synthetase facilitates both productive docking and catalysis of cognate tRNAs.	The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae possesses two distinct glycyl-tRNA synthetase (GlyRS) genes: GRS1 and GRS2. GRS1 is dually functional, encoding both cytoplasmic and mitochondrial activities, while GRS2 is dysfunctional and not required for growth. The protein products of these two genes, GlyRS1 and GlyRS2, are much alike but are distinguished by an insertion peptide of GlyRS1, which is absent from GlyRS2 and other eukaryotic homologues. We show that deletion or mutation of the insertion peptide modestly impaired the enzyme's catalytic efficiency in vitro (with a 2- to 3-fold increase in Km and a 5- to 8-fold decrease in kcat). Consistently, GRS2 can be conveniently converted to a functional gene via codon optimization, and the insertion peptide is dispensable for protein stability and the rescue activity of GRS1 at 30C in vivo. A phylogenetic analysis further showed that GRS1 and GRS2 are paralogues that arose from a gene duplication event relatively recently, with GRS1 being the predecessor. These results indicate that GlyRS2 is an active enzyme essentially resembling the insertion peptide-deleted form of GlyRS1. Our study suggests that the insertion peptide represents a novel auxiliary domain, which facilitates both productive docking and catalysis of cognate tRNAs. 
Structure and catalytic mechanism of yeast 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate lyase.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae Abz2 is a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP)-dependent lyase that converts 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate (ADC) to para-aminobenzoate and pyruvate. To investigate the catalytic mechanism, we determined the 1.9  resolution crystal structure of Abz2 complexed with PLP, representing the first eukaryotic ADC lyase structure. Unlike Escherichia coli ADC lyase, whose dimerization is critical to the formation of the active site, the overall structure of Abz2 displays as a monomer of two domains. At the interdomain cleft, a molecule of cofactor PLP forms a Schiff base with residue Lys-251. Computational simulations defined a basic clamp to orientate the substrate ADC in a proper pose, which was validated by site-directed mutageneses combined with enzymatic activity assays. Altogether, we propose a putative catalytic mechanism of a unique class of monomeric ADC lyases led by yeast Abz2. 
Structurally conserved and functionally divergent yeast Ssu72 phosphatases.	The eukaryotic Ssu72 factor is involved in several RNA biogenesis processes. It has phosphatase activity on the carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of the major subunit of RNA polymerase II. The Kluyveromyces lactis Ssu72 (KlSsu72) shows in vitro phosphatase activity for the pNPP substrate, and this activity is inhibited by ortho-vanadate. The expression of KlSsu72 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae shows defective CTD serine5-P phosphatase activity and reveals the importance of Ssu72 for the normal CTD serine5-P levels at two growth states. The divergence is emphasised by the remarkable changes in RNA14 alternative 3'-end RNA processing, which are independent of the CTD serine5-P levels. 
Guanine nucleotide exchange in the ribosomal GTPase EFL1 is modulated by the protein mutated in the Shwachman-Diamond syndrome.	Ribosome biogenesis in eukaryotes is a complex process that requires the participation of several accessory proteins that are not part of the mature particle. Efl1 is a yeast GTPase required for the cytoplasmic maturation of the 60S ribosomal subunit. Together with Sdo1, the yeast ortholog of the protein mutated in the Shwachman-Diamond Syndrome (SBDS), Efl1 releases the anti-association factor Tif6 from the surface of the 60S subunit allowing the assembly of mature ribosomes. We characterized the structural content and folding stability of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae and human EFL1 GTPases, as well as their enzymatic properties alone and in the presence of Sdo1 and SBDS, respectively. The human and S. cerevisiae EFL1 GTPases are composed of a mixture of -helices and -sheets. Despite being orthologs, the yeast protein elicited a non-two state thermal unfolding behavior while the human EFL1 was highly resistant to thermal denaturation. Steady-state kinetic analyses indicated slow GTP hydrolysis for both EFL1 GTPases, with kcat values of 0.4 and 0.3min(-1) and Km for GTP of 110 and 180M respectively. In the presence of the effector proteins, their kcat values remained unaltered while the Km decreased twofold suggesting that Sdo1 and SBDS act as nucleotide exchange factors. 
Structural changes in the mitochondrial Tim23 channel are coupled to the proton-motive force.	Tim23, the central subunit of the TIM23 protein-translocation complex, forms a voltage-gated channel in the mitochondrial inner membrane (MIM), an energy-conserving membrane that generates a proton-motive force to drive vital processes. Using high-resolution fluorescence mapping of a channel-facing transmembrane segment (TMS2) of Tim23 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we demonstrate that changes in the energized state of the MIM cause marked structural alterations in the channel region. In an energized membrane, TMS2 forms a continuous -helix that is inaccessible to the aqueous intermembrane space (IMS). Upon depolarization, the helical periodicity of TMS2 is disrupted, and the channel becomes exposed to the IMS. Kinetic measurements confirm that changes in TMS2 conformation coincide with depolarization. These results reveal how the energized state of the membrane drives functionally relevant structural dynamics in membrane proteins coupled to processes such as channel gating. 
Two-component protein hydrogels assembled using an engineered disulfide-forming protein-ligand pair.	We present the development of a two-component self-assembling protein hydrogel. The building blocks of the hydrogel are two liquid-phase protein block copolymers each containing (1) a subunit of the trimeric protein CutA as a cross-linker and (2) one member of a PDZ-domain-containing protein-ligand pair whose interaction was reinforced by an engineered disulfide linkage. Mixing of the two building blocks reconstitutes a self-assembling polypeptide unit, triggering hydrogel formation. This hydrogel exhibits extremely high solution stability at neutral and acidic pHs and in a wide range of temperatures (4-50 C). Incorporation of a "docking station peptide" binding motif into a hydrogel building block enables functionalization of the hydrogel with target proteins tagged with a "docking protein". We demonstrated the application of an enzyme-functionalized hydrogel in a direct electron transfer enzymatic biocathode. These disulfide-reinforced protein hydrogels provide a potential new material for diverse applications including industrial biocatalysis, biosynthesis, biofuels, tissue engineering, and controlled drug delivery.
Cryo-EM structure of a helicase loading intermediate containing ORC-Cdc6-Cdt1-MCM2-7 bound to DNA.	In eukaryotes, the Cdt1-bound replicative helicase core MCM2-7 is loaded onto DNA by the ORC-Cdc6 ATPase to form a prereplicative complex (pre-RC) with an MCM2-7 double hexamer encircling DNA. Using purified components in the presence of ATP-S, we have captured in vitro an intermediate in pre-RC assembly that contains a complex between the ORC-Cdc6 and Cdt1-MCM2-7 heteroheptamers called the OCCM. Cryo-EM studies of this 14-subunit complex reveal that the two separate heptameric complexes are engaged extensively, with the ORC-Cdc6 N-terminal AAA+ domains latching onto the C-terminal AAA+ motor domains of the MCM2-7 hexamer. The conformation of ORC-Cdc6 undergoes a concerted change into a right-handed spiral with helical symmetry that is identical to that of the DNA double helix. The resulting ORC-Cdc6 helicase loader shows a notable structural similarity to the replication factor C clamp loader, suggesting a conserved mechanism of action. 
High-resolution structure of TBP with TAF1 reveals anchoring patterns in transcriptional regulation.	The general transcription factor TFIID provides a regulatory platform for transcription initiation. Here we present the crystal structure (1.97 ) and NMR analysis of yeast TAF1 N-terminal domains TAND1 and TAND2 bound to yeast TBP, together with mutational data. We find that yeast TAF1-TAND1, which in itself acts as a transcriptional activator, binds TBP's concave DNA-binding surface by presenting similar anchor residues to TBP as does Mot1 but from a distinct structural scaffold. Furthermore, we show how TAF1-TAND2 uses an aromatic and acidic anchoring pattern to bind a conserved TBP surface groove traversing the basic helix region, and we find highly similar TBP-binding motifs also presented by the structurally distinct TFIIA, Mot1 and Brf1 proteins. Our identification of these anchoring patterns, which can be easily disrupted or enhanced, provides insight into the competitive multiprotein TBP interplay critical to transcriptional regulation. 
Characterization of the two intracellular lipases of Y. lipolytica encoded by TGL3 and TGL4 genes: new insights into the role of intracellular lipases and lipid body organisation.	Eukaryotes store lipids in a specialised organelle, the lipid body (LB), mainly as triglycerides (TAGs). Both the rates of synthesis and degradation contribute to the control of the accumulation of TAGs. The synthesis of TAGs in yeasts has been well documented, especially in the model yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and in the oleaginous yeast Yarrowia lipolytica. However, descriptions of the processes involved in TAG degradation are more scarce and mostly for S. cerevisiae. Here, we report the characterisation of two Y. lipolytica genes, YlTGL3 and YlTGL4, encoding intracellular lipases involved in TAG degradation. The two proteins are localised in lipid bodies, and YlTgl4 was mainly found at the interface between LBs. Surprisingly, the spatial organisation of YlTgl3 and YlTgl4 depends on the culture medium and on the physiological phase of the cell. Inactivation of one or both genes doubles the lipid accumulation capacity of Y. lipolytica, increasing the cell's capacity to accumulate TAGs. The amino acid sequence of YlTgl4 contains the consensus sequence motif (G/A)XSXG, typical of serine hydrolases, whereas YlTgl3 does not. Single and double mutants are unable to degrade TAGs, and higher expression of YlTgl4 correlates with TAG degradation. Therefore, we propose that YlTgl4 is the main lipase responsible for TAG degradation and that YlTgl3 may act as a positive regulator of YlTgl4 rather than a functional lipase. Thus, contrary to S. cerevisiae, Y. lipolytica possesses two intracellular lipases with distinct roles and with distinct localisations in the LB. 
An HPLC-tandem mass spectrometry method for simultaneous detection of alkylated base excision repair products.	DNA glycosylases excise a broad spectrum of alkylated, oxidized, and deaminated nucleobases from DNA as the initial step in base excision repair. Substrate specificity and base excision activity are typically characterized by monitoring the release of modified nucleobases either from a genomic DNA substrate that has been treated with a modifying agent or from a synthetic oligonucleotide containing a defined lesion of interest. Detection of nucleobases from genomic DNA has traditionally involved HPLC separation and scintillation detection of radiolabeled nucleobases, which in the case of alkylation adducts can be laborious and costly. Here, we describe a mass spectrometry method to simultaneously detect and quantify multiple alkylpurine adducts released from genomic DNA that has been treated with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU). We illustrate the utility of this method by monitoring the excision of N3-methyladenine (3 mA) and N7-methylguanine (7 mG) by a panel of previously characterized prokaryotic and eukaryotic alkylpurine DNA glycosylases, enabling a comparison of substrate specificity and enzyme activity by various methods. Detailed protocols for these methods, along with preparation of genomic and oligonucleotide alkyl-DNA substrates, are also described.
High-throughput analysis of in vivo protein stability.	Determining the half-life of proteins is critical for an understanding of virtually all cellular processes. Current methods for measuring in vivo protein stability, including large-scale approaches, are limited in their throughput or in their ability to discriminate among small differences in stability. We developed a new method, Stable-seq, which uses a simple genetic selection combined with high-throughput DNA sequencing to assess the in vivo stability of a large number of variants of a protein. The variants are fused to a metabolic enzyme, which here is the yeast Leu2 protein. Plasmids encoding these Leu2 fusion proteins are transformed into yeast, with the resultant fusion proteins accumulating to different levels based on their stability and leading to different doubling times when the yeast are grown in the absence of leucine. Sequencing of an input population of variants of a protein and the population of variants after leucine selection allows the stability of tens of thousands of variants to be scored in parallel. By applying the Stable-seq method to variants of the protein degradation signal Deg1 from the yeast Mat2 protein, we generated a high-resolution map that reveals the effect of 30,000 mutations on protein stability. We identified mutations that likely affect stability by changing the activity of the degron, by leading to translation from new start codons, or by affecting N-terminal processing. Stable-seq should be applicable to other organisms via the use of suitable reporter proteins, as well as to the analysis of complex mixtures of fusion proteins. 
Coupling of mitochondrial import and export translocases by receptor-mediated supercomplex formation.	The mitochondrial outer membrane harbors two protein translocases that are essential for cell viability: the translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane (TOM) and the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM). The precursors of -barrel proteins use both translocases-TOM for import to the intermembrane space and SAM for export into the outer membrane. It is unknown if the translocases cooperate and where the -barrel of newly imported proteins is formed. We established a position-specific assay for monitoring -barrel formation in vivo and in organello and demonstrated that the -barrel was formed and membrane inserted while the precursor was bound to SAM. -barrel formation was inhibited by SAM mutants and, unexpectedly, by mutants of the central import receptor, Tom22. We show that the cytosolic domain of Tom22 links TOM and SAM into a supercomplex, facilitating precursor transfer on the intermembrane space side. Our study reveals receptor-mediated coupling of import and export translocases as a means of precursor channeling.
Interactions affected by arginine methylation in the yeast protein-protein interaction network.	Protein-protein interactions can be modulated by the methylation of arginine residues. As a means of testing this, we recently described a conditional two-hybrid system, based on the bacterial adenylate cyclase (BACTH) system. Here, we have used this conditional two-hybrid system to explore the effect of arginine methylation in modulating protein-protein interactions in a subset of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae arginine methylproteome network. Interactions between the yeast hub protein Npl3 and yeast proteins Air2, Ded1, Gbp2, Snp1, and Yra1 were first validated in the absence of methylation. The major yeast arginine methyltransferase Hmt1 was subsequently included in the conditional two-hybrid assay, initially to determine the degree of methylation that occurs. Proteins Snp1 and Yra1 were confirmed as Hmt1 substrates, with five and two novel arginine methylation sites mapped by ETD LC-MS/MS on these proteins, respectively. Proteins Ded1 and Gbp2, previously predicted but not confirmed as substrates of Hmt1, were also found to be methylated with five and seven sites mapped respectively. Air2 was found to be a novel substrate of Hmt1 with two sites mapped. Finally, we investigated the interactions of Npl3 with the five interaction partners in the presence of active Hmt1 and in the presence of Hmt1 with a G68R inactivation mutation. We found that the interaction between Npl3 and Air2, and Npl3 and Ded1, were significantly increased in the presence of active Hmt1; the interaction of Npl3 and Snp1 showed a similar degree of increase in interaction but this was not statistically significant. The interactions of Npl3 and Gbp2, along with Npl3 and Yra1, were not significantly increased or decreased by methylation. We conclude that methylarginine may be a widespread means by which the interactions of proteins are modulated. 
Yeast one-hybrid g recruitment system for identification of protein lipidation motifs.	Fatty acids and isoprenoids can be covalently attached to a variety of proteins. These lipid modifications regulate protein structure, localization and function. Here, we describe a yeast one-hybrid approach based on the G recruitment system that is useful for identifying sequence motifs those influence lipid modification to recruit proteins to the plasma membrane. Our approach facilitates the isolation of yeast cells expressing lipid-modified proteins via a simple and easy growth selection assay utilizing G-protein signaling that induces diploid formation. In the current study, we selected the N-terminal sequence of G subunits as a model case to investigate dual lipid modification, i.e., myristoylation and palmitoylation, a modification that is widely conserved from yeast to higher eukaryotes. Our results suggest that both lipid modifications are required for restoration of G-protein signaling. Although we could not differentiate between myristoylation and palmitoylation, N-terminal position 7 and 8 play some critical role. Moreover, we tested the preference for specific amino-acid residues at position 7 and 8 using library-based screening. This new approach will be useful to explore protein-lipid associations and to determine the corresponding sequence motifs. 
Energetic and structural details of the trigger-loop closing transition in RNA polymerase II.	An evolutionarily conserved element in RNA polymerase II, the trigger loop (TL), has been suggested to play an important role in the elongation rate, fidelity of selection of the matched nucleoside triphosphate (NTP), catalysis of transcription elongation, and translocation in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. In response to NTP binding, the TL undergoes large conformational changes to switch between distinct open and closed states to tighten the active site and avail catalysis. A computational strategy for characterizing the conformational transition pathway is presented to bridge the open and closed states of the TL. Information from a large number of independent all-atom molecular dynamics trajectories from Hamiltonian replica exchange and targeted molecular dynamics simulations is gathered together to assemble a connectivity map of the conformational transition. The results show that with a cognate NTP, TL closing should be a spontaneous process. One major intermediate state is identified along the conformational transition pathway, and the key structural features are characterized. The complete pathway from the open TL to the closed TL provides a clear picture of the TL closing.
Integrity of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rpn11 protein is critical for formation of proteasome storage granules (PSG) and survival in stationary phase.	Decline of proteasome activity has been reported in mammals, flies and yeasts during aging. In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the reduction of proteolysis in stationary phase is correlated with disassembly of the 26S proteasomes into their 20S and 19S subcomplexes. However a recent report showed that upon entry into the stationary phase, proteasome subunits massively re-localize from the nucleus into mobile cytoplasmic structures called proteasome storage granules (PSGs). Whether proteasome subunits in PSG are assembled into active complexes remains an open question that we addressed in the present study. We showed that a particular mutant of the RPN11 gene (rpn11-m1), encoding a proteasome lid subunit already known to exhibit proteasome assembly/stability defect in vitro, is unable to form PSGs and displays a reduced viability in stationary phase. Full restoration of long-term survival and PSG formation in rpn11-m1 cells can be achieved by the expression in trans of the last 45 amino acids of the C-terminal domain of Rpn11, which was moreover found to co-localize with PSGs. In addition, another rpn11 mutant leading to seven amino acids change in the Rpn11 C-terminal domain, which exhibits assembled-26S proteasomes, is able to form PSGs but with a delay compared to the wild type situation. Altogether, our findings indicate that PSGs are formed of fully assembled 26S proteasomes and suggest a critical role for the Rpn11 protein in this process. 
Model of the Mediator middle module based on protein cross-linking.	The essential core of the transcription coactivator Mediator consists of two conserved multiprotein modules, the head and middle modules. Whereas the structure of the head module is known, the structure of the middle module is lacking. Here we report a 3D model of a 6-subunit Mediator middle module. The model was obtained by arranging crystal structures and homology models of parts of the module based on lysine-lysine cross-links obtained by mass spectrometric analysis. The model contains a central tetramer formed by the heterodimers Med4/Med9 and Med7/Med21. The Med7/Med21 heterodimer is flanked by subunits Med10 and Med31. The model is highly extended, suggests that the middle module is flexible and contributes to a molecular basis for detailed structure-function studies of RNA polymerase II regulation. 
Identification of the Rps28 binding motif from yeast Edc3 involved in the autoregulatory feedback loop controlling RPS28B mRNA decay.	In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the Edc3 protein was previously reported to participate in the auto-regulatory feedback loop controlling the level of the RPS28B messenger RNA (mRNA). We show here that Edc3 binds directly and tightly to the globular core of Rps28 ribosomal protein. This binding occurs through a motif that is present exclusively in Edc3 proteins from yeast belonging to the Saccharomycetaceae phylum. Functional analyses indicate that the ability of Edc3 to interact with Rps28 is not required for its general function and for its role in the regulation of the YRA1 pre-mRNA decay. In contrast, this interaction appears to be exclusively required for the auto-regulatory mechanism controlling the RPS28B mRNA decay. These observations suggest a plausible model for the evolutionary appearance of a Rps28 binding motif in Edc3. 
Nutritional control of epigenetic processes in yeast and human cells.	The vitamin folate is required for methionine homeostasis in all organisms. In addition to its role in protein synthesis, methionine is the precursor to S-adenosyl-methionine (SAM), which is used in myriad cellular methylation reactions, including all histone methylation reactions. Here, we demonstrate that folate and methionine deficiency led to reduced methylation of lysine 4 of histone H3 (H3K4) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The effect of nutritional deficiency on H3K79 methylation was less pronounced, but was exacerbated in S. cerevisiae carrying a hypomorphic allele of Dot1, the enzyme responsible for H3K79 methylation. This result suggested a hierarchy of epigenetic modifications in terms of their susceptibility to nutritional limitations. Folate deficiency caused changes in gene transcription that mirrored the effect of complete loss of H3K4 methylation. Histone methylation was also found to respond to nutritional deficiency in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe and in human cells in culture. 
Identification of novel host factors via conserved domain search: Cns1 cochaperone is a novel restriction factor of tombusvirus replication in yeast.	A large number of host-encoded proteins affect the replication of plus-stranded RNA viruses by acting as susceptibility factors. Many other cellular proteins are known to function as restriction factors of viral infections. Previous studies with tomato bushy stunt tombusvirus (TBSV) in a yeast model host have revealed the inhibitory function of TPR (tetratricopeptide repeat) domain-containing cyclophilins, which are members of the large family of host prolyl isomerases, in TBSV replication. In this paper, we tested additional TPR-containing yeast proteins in a cell-free TBSV replication assay and identified the Cns1p cochaperone for heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) and Hsp90 chaperones as a strong inhibitor of TBSV replication. Cns1p interacted with the viral replication proteins and inhibited the assembly of the viral replicase complex and viral RNA synthesis in vitro. Overexpression of Cns1p inhibited TBSV replication in yeast. The use of a temperature-sensitive (TS) mutant of Cns1p in yeast revealed that at a semipermissive temperature, TS Cns1p could not inhibit TBSV replication. Interestingly, Cns1p and the TPR-containing Cpr7p cyclophilin have similar inhibitory functions during TBSV replication, although some of the details of their viral restriction mechanisms are different. Our observations indicate that TPR-containing cellular proteins could act as virus restriction factors. 
Kinetochore function and chromosome segregation rely on critical residues in histones H3 and H4 in budding yeast.	Accurate chromosome segregation requires that sister kinetochores biorient and attach to microtubules from opposite poles. Kinetochore biorientation relies on the underlying centromeric chromatin, which provides a platform to assemble the kinetochore and to recruit the regulatory factors that ensure the high fidelity of this process. To identify the centromeric chromatin determinants that contribute to chromosome segregation, we performed two complementary unbiased genetic screens using a library of budding yeast mutants in every residue of histone H3 and H4. In one screen, we identified mutants that lead to increased loss of a nonessential chromosome. In the second screen, we isolated mutants whose viability depends on a key regulator of biorientation, the Aurora B protein kinase. Nine mutants were common to both screens and exhibited kinetochore biorientation defects. Four of the mutants map near the unstructured nucleosome entry site, and their genetic interaction with reduced IPL1 can be suppressed by increasing the dosage of SGO1, a key regulator of biorientation. In addition, the composition of purified kinetochores was altered in six of the mutants. Together, this work identifies previously unknown histone residues involved in chromosome segregation and lays the foundation for future studies on the role of the underlying chromatin structure in chromosome segregation. 
N-Terminal methylation of proteasome subunit Rpt1 in yeast.	The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic protease complex that degrades ubiquitinated proteins in eukaryotic cells. It consists of a proteolytic core (the 20S proteasome) as well as regulatory particles, which contain six ATPase (Rpt) subunits involved in unfolding and translocation of substrates to the catalytic chamber of the 20S proteasome. In this study, we used MS to analyze the N-terminal modifications of the yeast Rpt1 subunit, which contains the N-terminal recognition sequence for N-methyltransferase. Our results revealed that following the removal of the initiation Met residue of yeast Rpt1, the N-terminal Pro residue is either unmodified, mono-methylated, or di-methylated, and that this N-methylation has not been conserved throughout evolution. In order to gain a better understanding of the possible function(s) of the Pro-Lys (PK) sequence at positions 3 and 4 of yeast Rpt1, we generated mutant strains expressing an Rpt1 allele that lacks this sequence. The absence of the PK sequence abolished N-methylation, decreased cell growth, and increased sensitivity to stress. Our data suggest that N-methylation of Rpt1 and/or its PK sequence might be important in cell growth or stress tolerance in yeast. 
Interaction maps of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae ESCRT-III protein Snf7.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae ESCRT-III protein Snf7 is part of an intricate interaction network at the endosomal membrane. Interaction maps of Snf7 were established by measuring the degree of binding of individual binding partners to putative binding motifs along the Snf7 sequence by glutathione S-transferase (GST) pulldown. For each interaction partner, distinct binding profiles were obtained. The following observations were made. The ESCRT-III subunits Vps20 and Vps24 showed a complementary binding pattern, suggesting a model for the series of events in the ESCRT-III functional cycle. Vps4 bound to individual Snf7 motifs but not to full-length Snf7. This suggests that Vps4 does not bind to the closed conformation of Snf7. We also demonstrate for the first time that the ALIX/Bro1 homologue Rim20 binds to the 6 helix of Snf7. Analysis of a Snf7 6 deletion mutant showed that the 6 helix is crucial for binding of Bro1 and Rim20 in vivo and is indispensable for the multivesicular body (MVB)-sorting and Rim-signaling functions of Snf7. The Snf76 protein still appeared to be incorporated into ESCRT-III complexes at the endosomal membrane, but disassembly of the complex seemed to be defective. In summary, our study argues against the view that the ESCRT cycle is governed by single one-to-one interactions between individual components and emphasizes the network character of the ESCRT interactions. 
Fidelity of RNA polymerase II transcription: Role of Rbp9 in error detection and proofreading.	The role of the small RNA polymerase II subunit Rpb9 in transcriptional proofreading was assessed in vitro. Transcription elongation complexes in which the 3' end of the RNA is not complementary to the DNA template have a dramatically reduced rate of elongation, which provides a fidelity checkpoint at which the error can be removed. The efficiency of such proofreading depends on competing rates of error propagation (extending the RNA chain without removing the error) and error excision, a process that is facilitated by TFIIS. In the absence of Rpb9, the rate of error propagation is increased by 2- to 3-fold in numerous sequence contexts, compromising the efficiency of proofreading. In addition, the rate and extent of TFIIS-mediated error excision is also significantly compromised in the absence of Rpb9. In at least some sequence contexts, Rpb9 appears to enhance TFIIS-mediated error excision by facilitating efficient formation of a conformation necessary for RNA cleavage. If a transcription error is propagated by addition of a nucleotide to the mismatched 3' end, then the rate of further elongation increases but remains much slower than that of a complex with a fully base-paired RNA, which provides a second potential fidelity checkpoint. The absence of Rpb9 also affects both error propagation and TFIIS-mediated error excision at this potential checkpoint in a manner that compromises transcriptional fidelity. In contrast, no effects of Rpb9 on NTP selectivity were observed.
Back to the future--the value of single protein species investigations.	In proteomics, in the past years, there was a focus on high throughput and reaching of large numbers of identified proteins with the basic discourse of protein expression. To avoid the impression of producing pure lists attempts are usually made to correlate proteins changed in amount between two biological situations to different pathways or protein interactions. This discourse is based on two simplifications, which limit the applicability of proteomics drastically: (i) it is sufficient to quantify a protein from several enzymatic digestion products; (ii) a biological situation is sufficiently described, if a peptide with its PTM is identified, resulting in long lists of modified peptides with data amounts, which are not anymore made accessible for the reader of a publication. The elucidation of N-terminal methylation of proteasome subunit Rpt1 in yeast by Kimura et al. (Proteomics 2013, 13, 3167-3174), which represents the focus on one protein, shows the value of solid chemical analysis with a complete data documentation and paves the way to proteomics based on the protein speciation discourse. 
Architecture of the Lsm1-7-Pat1 complex: a conserved assembly in eukaryotic mRNA turnover.	The decay of mRNAs is a key step in eukaryotic gene expression. The cytoplasmic Lsm1-7-Pat1 complex is a conserved component of the 5'-to-3' mRNA decay pathway, linking deadenylation to decapping. Lsm1-7 is similar to the nuclear Sm complexes that bind oligo-uridine tracts in snRNAs. The 2.3 resolution structure of S.cerevisiae Lsm1-7 shows the presence of a heptameric ring with Lsm1-2-3-6-5-7-4 topology. A distinct structural feature of the cytoplasmic Lsm ring is the C-terminal extension of Lsm1, which plugs the exit site of the central channel and approaches the RNA binding pockets. The 3.7 resolution structure of Lsm1-7 bound to the C-terminal domain of Pat1 reveals that Pat1 recognition is not mediated by the distinguishing cytoplasmic subunit, Lsm1, but by Lsm2 and Lsm3. These results show how the auxiliary domains and the canonical Sm folds of the Lsm1-7 complex are organized in order to mediate and modulate macromolecular interactions. 
Soluble oligomers are sufficient for transmission of a yeast prion but do not confer phenotype.	Amyloidogenic proteins aggregate through a self-templating mechanism that likely involves oligomeric or prefibrillar intermediates. For disease-associated amyloidogenic proteins, such intermediates have been suggested to be the primary cause of cellular toxicity. However, isolation and characterization of these oligomeric intermediates has proven difficult, sparking controversy over their biological relevance in disease pathology. Here, we describe an oligomeric species of a yeast prion protein in cells that is sufficient for prion transmission and infectivity. These oligomers differ from the classic prion aggregates in that they are soluble and less resistant to SDS. We found that large, SDS-resistant aggregates were required for the prion phenotype but that soluble, more SDS-sensitive oligomers contained all the information necessary to transmit the prion conformation. Thus, we identified distinct functional requirements of two types of prion species for this endogenous epigenetic element. Furthermore, the nontoxic, self-replicating amyloid conformers of yeast prion proteins have again provided valuable insight into the mechanisms of amyloid formation and propagation in cells. 
Physical and genetic associations of the Irc20 ubiquitin ligase with Cdc48 and SUMO.	A considerable percentage of the genome is dedicated to the ubiquitin-proteasome system, with the yeast genome predicted to encode approximately 100 ubiquitin ligases (or E3s), and the human genome predicted to encode more than 600 E3s. The most abundant class of E3s consists of RING finger-containing proteins. Although many insights have been obtained regarding the structure and catalytic mechanism of the E3s, much remains to be learned about the function of the individual E3s. Here we characterize IRC20, which encodes a dual RING- and Snf/Swi family ATPase domain-containing protein in yeast that has been implicated in DNA repair. We found that overexpression of IRC20 causes two transcription-associated phenotypes and demonstrate that the Irc20 RING domain possesses ubiquitin E3 activity in vitro. Two mass spectrometry approaches were undertaken to identify Irc20-associated proteins. Wild-type Irc20 associated with Cdc48, a AAA-ATPase that serves as an intermediary in the ubiquitin-proteasome system. A second approach using a RING mutant derivative of Irc20 detected increased association of the Irc20 mutant with SUMO. These findings provide a foundation for understanding the roles of Irc20 in transcription and DNA repair. 
Structure determination of an 11-subunit exosome in complex with RNA by molecular replacement.	The RNA exosome is an evolutionarily conserved multi-protein complex involved in the 3' degradation of a variety of RNA transcripts. In the nucleus, the exosome participates in the maturation of structured RNAs, in the surveillance of pre-mRNAs and in the decay of a variety of noncoding transcripts. In the cytoplasm, the exosome degrades mRNAs in constitutive and regulated turnover pathways. Several structures of subcomplexes of eukaryotic exosomes or related prokaryotic exosome-like complexes are known, but how the complete assembly is organized to fulfil processive RNA degradation has been unclear. An atomic snapshot of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae 420 kDa exosome complex bound to an RNA substrate in the pre-cleavage state of a hydrolytic reaction has been determined. Here, the crystallographic steps towards the structural elucidation, which was carried out by molecular replacement, are presented.
Building a pseudo-atomic model of the anaphase-promoting complex.	The anaphase-promoting complex (APC/C) is a large E3 ubiquitin ligase that regulates progression through specific stages of the cell cycle by coordinating the ubiquitin-dependent degradation of cell-cycle regulatory proteins. Depending on the species, the active form of the APC/C consists of 14-15 different proteins that assemble into a 20-subunit complex with a mass of approximately 1.3 MDa. A hybrid approach of single-particle electron microscopy and protein crystallography of individual APC/C subunits has been applied to generate pseudo-atomic models of various functional states of the complex. Three approaches for assigning regions of the EM-derived APC/C density map to specific APC/C subunits are described. This information was used to dock atomic models of APC/C subunits, determined either by protein crystallography or homology modelling, to specific regions of the APC/C EM map, allowing the generation of a pseudo-atomic model corresponding to 80% of the entire complex.
Ribosome biogenesis in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Ribosomes are highly conserved ribonucleoprotein nanomachines that translate information in the genome to create the proteome in all cells. In yeast these complex particles contain four RNAs (>5400 nucleotides) and 79 different proteins. During the past 25 years, studies in yeast have led the way to understanding how these molecules are assembled into ribosomes in vivo. Assembly begins with transcription of ribosomal RNA in the nucleolus, where the RNA then undergoes complex pathways of folding, coupled with nucleotide modification, removal of spacer sequences, and binding to ribosomal proteins. More than 200 assembly factors and 76 small nucleolar RNAs transiently associate with assembling ribosomes, to enable their accurate and efficient construction. Following export of preribosomes from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, they undergo final stages of maturation before entering the pool of functioning ribosomes. Elaborate mechanisms exist to monitor the formation of correct structural and functional neighborhoods within ribosomes and to destroy preribosomes that fail to assemble properly. Studies of yeast ribosome biogenesis provide useful models for ribosomopathies, diseases in humans that result from failure to properly assemble ribosomes. 
Structures of Saccharomyces cerevisiae D-arabinose dehydrogenase Ara1 and its complex with NADPH: implications for cofactor-assisted substrate recognition.	The primary role of yeast Ara1, previously mis-annotated as a D-arabinose dehydrogenase, is to catalyze the reduction of a variety of toxic ,-dicarbonyl compounds using NADPH as a cofactor at physiological pH levels. Here, crystal structures of Ara1 in apo and NADPH-complexed forms are presented at 2.10 and 2.00 resolution, respectively. Ara1 exists as a homodimer, each subunit of which adopts an (/)8-barrel structure and has a highly conserved cofactor-binding pocket. Structural comparison revealed that induced fit upon NADPH binding yielded an intact active-site pocket that recognizes the substrate. Moreover, the crystal structures combined with computational simulation defined an open substrate-binding site to accommodate various substrates that possess a dicarbonyl group. 
Defining the impact on yeast ATP synthase of two pathogenic human mitochondrial DNA mutations, T9185C and T9191C.	Mutations in the human mitochondrial ATP6 gene encoding ATP synthase subunit a/6 (referred to as Atp6p in yeast) are at the base of neurodegenerative disorders like Neurogenic Ataxia and Retinitis Pigmentosa (NARP), Leigh syndrome (LS), Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT), and ataxia telangiectasia. In previous studies, using the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model we were able to better define how several of these mutations impact the ATP synthase. Here we report the construction of yeast models of two other ATP6 pathogenic mutations, T9185C and T9191C. The first one was reported as conferring a mild, sometimes reversible, CMT clinical phenotype; the second one has been described in a patient presenting with severe LS. We found that an equivalent of the T9185C mutation partially impaired the functioning of yeast ATP synthase, with only a 30% deficit in mitochondrial ATP production. An equivalent of the mutation T9191C had much more severe effects, with a nearly complete block in yeast Atp6p assembly and an >95% drop in the rate of ATP synthesis. These findings provide a molecular basis for the relative severities of the diseases induced by T9185C and T9191C. 
The dynamics of diverse segmental amplifications in populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae adapting to strong selection.	Population adaptation to strong selection can occur through the sequential or parallel accumulation of competing beneficial mutations. The dynamics, diversity, and rate of fixation of beneficial mutations within and between populations are still poorly understood. To study how the mutational landscape varies across populations during adaptation, we performed experimental evolution on seven parallel populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae continuously cultured in limiting sulfate medium. By combining quantitative polymerase chain reaction, array comparative genomic hybridization, restriction digestion and contour-clamped homogeneous electric field gel electrophoresis, and whole-genome sequencing, we followed the trajectory of evolution to determine the identity and fate of beneficial mutations. During a period of 200 generations, the yeast populations displayed parallel evolutionary dynamics that were driven by the coexistence of independent beneficial mutations. Selective amplifications rapidly evolved under this selection pressure, in particular common inverted amplifications containing the sulfate transporter gene SUL1. Compared with single clones, detailed analysis of the populations uncovers a greater complexity whereby multiple subpopulations arise and compete despite a strong selection. The most common evolutionary adaptation to strong selection in these populations grown in sulfate limitation is determined by clonal interference, with adaptive variants both persisting and replacing one another. 
Higher-order septin assembly is driven by GTP-promoted conformational changes: evidence from unbiased mutational analysis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Septin proteins bind GTP and heterooligomerize into filaments with conserved functions across a wide range of eukaryotes. Most septins hydrolyze GTP, altering the oligomerization interfaces; yet mutations designed to abolish nucleotide binding or hydrolysis by yeast septins perturb function only at high temperatures. Here, we apply an unbiased mutational approach to this problem. Mutations causing defects at high temperature mapped exclusively to the oligomerization interface encompassing the GTP-binding pocket, or to the pocket itself. Strikingly, cold-sensitive defects arise when certain of these same mutations are coexpressed with a wild-type allele, suggestive of a novel mode of dominance involving incompatibility between mutant and wild-type molecules at the septin-septin interfaces that mediate filament polymerization. A different cold-sensitive mutant harbors a substitution in an unstudied but highly conserved region of the septin Cdc12. A homologous domain in the small GTPase Ran allosterically regulates GTP-binding domain conformations, pointing to a possible new functional domain in some septins. Finally, we identify a mutation in septin Cdc3 that restores the high-temperature assembly competence of a mutant allele of septin Cdc10, likely by adopting a conformation more compatible with nucleotide-free Cdc10. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that GTP binding and hydrolysis promote, but are not required for, one-time events--presumably oligomerization-associated conformational changes--during assembly of the building blocks of septin filaments. Restrictive temperatures impose conformational constraints on mutant septin proteins, preventing new assembly and in certain cases destabilizing existing assemblies. These insights from yeast relate directly to disease-causing mutations in human septins.
Coenzyme Q supplementation or over-expression of the yeast Coq8 putative kinase stabilizes multi-subunit Coq polypeptide complexes in yeast coq null mutants.	Coenzyme Q biosynthesis in yeast requires a multi-subunit Coq polypeptide complex. Deletion of any one of the COQ genes leads to respiratory deficiency and decreased levels of the Coq4, Coq6, Coq7, and Coq9 polypeptides, suggesting that their association in a high molecular mass complex is required for stability. Over-expression of the putative Coq8 kinase in certain coq null mutants restores steady-state levels of the sensitive Coq polypeptides and promotes the synthesis of late-stage Q-intermediates. Here we show that over-expression of Coq8 in yeast coq null mutants profoundly affects the association of several of the Coq polypeptides in high molecular mass complexes, as assayed by separation of digitonin extracts of mitochondria by two-dimensional blue-native/SDS PAGE. The Coq4 polypeptide persists at high molecular mass with over-expression of Coq8 in coq3, coq5, coq6, coq7, coq9, and coq10 mutants, indicating that Coq4 is a central organizer of the Coq complex. Supplementation with exogenous Q6 increased the steady-state levels of Coq4, Coq7, and Coq9, and several other mitochondrial polypeptides in select coq null mutants, and also promoted the formation of late-stage Q-intermediates. Q supplementation may stabilize this complex by interacting with one or more of the Coq polypeptides. The stabilizing effects of exogenously added Q6 or over-expression of Coq8 depend on Coq1 and Coq2 production of a polyisoprenyl intermediate. Based on the observed interdependence of the Coq polypeptides, the effect of exogenous Q6, and the requirement for an endogenously produced polyisoprenyl intermediate, we propose a new model for the Q-biosynthetic complex, termed the CoQ-synthome. 
The BAG homology domain of Snl1 cures yeast prion [URE3] through regulation of Hsp70 chaperones.	The BAG family of proteins is evolutionarily conserved from yeast to humans and plants. In animals and plants, the BAG family possesses multiple members with overlapping and distinct functions that regulate many cellular processes, such as signaling, protein degradation, and stress response. The only BAG domain protein in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is Snl1, which is anchored to the endoplasmic reticulum through an amino-terminal transmembrane region. Snl1 is the only known membrane-associated nucleotide exchange factor for 70-kilodalton heat shock protein (Hsp70), and thus its role in regulating cytosolic Hsp70 functions is not clear. Here, we examine whether Snl1 regulates Hsp70 activity in the propagation of stable prion-like protein aggregates. We show that unlike other nucleotide exchange factors, Snl1 is not required for propagation of yeast prions [URE3] and [PSI(+)]. Overexpressing Snl1 derivative consisting of only the BAG domain (Snl1-S) cures [URE3]; however, elevated levels of the entire cytosolic domain of Snl1 (Snl1-M), which has nine additional amino-terminal residues, has no effect. Substituting the three lysine residues in this region of Snl1-M with alanine restores ability to cure [URE3]. [PSI(+)] is unaffected by overproduction of either Snl1-S or Snl1-M. The Snl1-S mutant engineered with weaker affinity to Hsp70 does not cure [URE3], indicating that curing of [URE3] by Snl1-S requires Hsp70. Our data suggest that Snl1 anchoring to endoplasmic reticulum or nuclear membrane restricts its ability to modulate cytosolic activities of Hsp70 proteins. Furthermore, the short amino-terminal extension of the BAG domain profoundly affects its function. 
The depletion of F subunit  in yeast leads to an uncoupled respiratory phenotype that is rescued by mutations in the proton-translocating subunits of F.	The central stalk of the ATP synthase is an elongated hetero-oligomeric structure providing a physical connection between the catalytic sites in F and the proton translocation channel in F for energy transduction between the two subdomains. The shape of the central stalk and relevance to energy coupling are essentially the same in ATP synthases from all forms of life, yet the protein composition of this domain changed during evolution of the mitochondrial enzyme from a two- to a three-subunit structure (, , ). Whereas the mitochondrial - and -subunits are homologues of the bacterial central stalk proteins, the deliberate addition of subunit  is poorly understood. Here we report that down-regulation of the gene (ATP15) encoding the -subunit rapidly leads to lethal F-mediated proton leaks through the membrane because of the loss of stability of the ATP synthase. The -subunit is thus essential for oxidative phosphorylation. Moreover, mutations in F subunits a and c, which slow the proton translocation rate, are identified that prevent -deficient ATP synthases from dissipating the electrochemical potential. Cumulatively our data lead us to propose that the -subunit evolved to permit operation of the central stalk under the torque imposed at the normal speed of proton movement through mitochondrial F.
The yeast Ess1 prolyl isomerase controls Swi6 and Whi5 nuclear localization.	The Ess1 prolyl isomerase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and its human ortholog, Pin1, play critical roles in transcription by regulating RNA polymerase II. In human cells, Pin1 also regulates a variety of signaling proteins, and Pin1 misexpression is linked to several human diseases. To gain insight into Ess1/Pin1 function, we carried out a synthetic genetic array screen to identify novel targets of Ess1 in yeast. We identified potential targets of Ess1 in transcription, stress, and cell-cycle pathways. We focused on the cell-cycle regulators Swi6 and Whi5, both of which show highly regulated nucleocytoplasmic shuttling during the cell cycle. Surprisingly, Ess1 did not control their transcription but instead was necessary for their nuclear localization. Ess1 associated with Swi6 and Whi5 in vivo and bound directly to peptides corresponding to their nuclear localization sequences in vitro. Binding by Ess1 was significant only if the Swi6 and Whi5 peptides were phosphorylated at Ser-Pro motifs, the target sites of cyclin-dependent kinases. On the basis of these results, we propose a model in which Ess1 induces a conformational switch (cis-trans isomerization) at phospho-Ser-Pro sites within the nuclear targeting sequences of Swi6 and Whi5. This switch would promote nuclear entry and/or retention during late M and G1 phases and might work by stimulating dephosphorylation at these sites by the Cdc14 phosphatase. This is the first study to identify targets of Ess1 in yeast other than RNA polymerase II. 
Methylation of yeast ribosomal protein S2 is elevated during stationary phase growth conditions.	Ribosomes, as the center of protein translation in the cell, require careful regulation via multiple pathways. While regulation of ribosomal synthesis and function has been widely studied on the transcriptional and translational "levels," the biological roles of ribosomal post-translational modifications (PTMs) are largely not understood. Here, we explore this matter by using quantitative mass spectrometry to compare the prevalence of ribosomal methylation and acetylation for yeast in the log phase and the stationary phase of growth. We find that of the 27 modified peptides identified, two peptides experience statistically significant changes in abundance: a 1.9-fold decrease in methylation for k(Me)VSGFKDEVLETV of ribosomal protein S1B (RPS1B), and a 10-fold increase in dimethylation for r(DiMe)GGFGGR of ribosomal protein S2 (RPS2). While the biological role of RPS1B methylation has largely been unexplored, RPS2 methylation is a modification known to have a role in processing and export of ribosomal RNA. This suggests that yeast in the stationary phase increase methylation of RPS2 in order to regulate ribosomal synthesis. These results demonstrate the utility of mass spectrometry for quantifying dynamic changes in ribosomal PTMs. 
Edc3 function in yeast and mammals is modulated by interaction with NAD-related compounds.	The control of mRNA translation and degradation is mediated in part by a set of proteins that can inhibit translation and promote decapping, as well as function in the assembly of cytoplasmic mRNP granules referred to as processing bodies (P-bodies). The conserved enhancer of mRNA decapping 3 (Edc3) protein functions to promote both decapping and P-body assembly. Crystal structures of the YjeF_N domain in hEdc3 identified a putative binding site for a small molecule. Structure modeling of the human Edc3 Yjef_N along with other Yjef_N-containing proteins suggests that this molecule is related to NAD(H). We now show human Edc3 directly binds NADH. We also show that human and yeast Edc3 chemically modify NAD in vitro. Mutations that are predicted to disrupt the binding and/or hydrolysis of an NAD-related molecule by yeast and human Edc3 affect the control of mRNA degradation and/or P-body composition in vivo. This suggests that the interaction of Edc3 with an NAD-related molecule affects its function in the regulation of mRNA translation and degradation and provides a possible mechanism to couple the energetics of the cell to posttranscriptional control. Moreover, this provides a unique example of and lends strength to the postulated connection of metabolites, enzymes, and RNA. 
Structural basis for ATP loss by Clp1p in a G135R mutant protein.	Pcf11p and Clp1p form a heterodimer and are subunits of the Cleavage Factor IA (CF IA), a complex that is involved in the maturation of the 3'-end of mRNAs in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The role of Clp1p protein in polyadenylation remains elusive, as does the need for ATP binding by Clp1p. In order to obtain structural details at atomic resolution of point mutants of Clp1p, we solved the crystal structure of Clp1-1p (G135R) point mutant complexed with Pcf11p (454-563) domain. The Clp1-1p-Pcf11p structure provides the atomic details for ATP loss while the point mutation preserves intact the Pcf11p interaction surface of Clp1p. This provides a rationale for the absence of phenotype in the yeast clp1-1 strain. Additionally, the structure allows for the description of an extended binding interface of Pcf11p with Clp1p which is likely to be S. cerevisiae specific.
Histone H3 lysine 14 (H3K14) acetylation facilitates DNA repair in a positioned nucleosome by stabilizing the binding of the chromatin Remodeler RSC (Remodels Structure of Chromatin).	Histone H3 acetylation is induced by UV damage in yeast and may play an important role in regulating the repair of UV photolesions in nucleosome-loaded genomic loci. However, it remains elusive how H3 acetylation facilitates repair. We generated a strongly positioned nucleosome containing homogeneously acetylated H3 at Lys-14 (H3K14ac) and investigated possible mechanisms by which H3K14 acetylation modulates repair. We show that H3K14ac does not alter nucleosome unfolding dynamics or enhance the repair of UV-induced cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers by UV photolyase. Importantly, however, nucleosomes with H3K14ac have a higher affinity for purified chromatin remodeling complex RSC (Remodels the Structure of Chromatin) and show greater cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer repair compared with unacetylated nucleosomes. Our study indicates that, by anchoring RSC, H3K14 acetylation plays an important role in the unfolding of strongly positioned nucleosomes during repair of UV damage. 
Stoichiometry of Saccharomyces cerevisiae lysine methylation: insights into non-histone protein lysine methyltransferase activity.	Post-translational lysine methylation is well established as a regulator of histone activity; however, it is emerging that these modifications are also likely to play extensive roles outside of the histone code. Here we obtain new insights into non-histone lysine methylation and protein lysine methyltransferase (PKMT) activity by elucidating absolute stoichiometries of lysine methylation, using mass spectrometry and absolute quantification (AQUA), in wild-type and 5 PKMT gene deletion strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. By analyzing 8 sites of methylation in 3 non-histone proteins, elongation factor 1- (EF1), elongation factor 2 (EF2), and 60S ribosomal protein L42-A/B (Rpl42ab), we find that production of preferred methylation states on individual lysine residues is commonplace and likely occurs through processive PKMT activity, Class I PKMTs can be associated with processive methylation, lysine residues are selectively methylated by specific PKMTs, and lysine methylation exists over a broad range of stoichiometries. Together these findings suggest that specific sites and forms of lysine methylation may play specialized roles in the regulation of non-histone protein activity. We also uncover new relationships between two proteins previously characterized as PKMTs, SEE1 and EFM1, in EF1 methylation and show that past characterizations of EFM1 as having direct PKMT activity may require reinterpretation. 
Functional divergence between the two P1-P2 stalk dimers on the ribosome in their interaction with ricin A chain.	The eukaryotic stalk, which is responsible for the recruitment of translation factors, is a pentamer containing two P1-P2 dimers with unclear modes of action. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, P1/P2 proteins (individual P1 and P2 proteins) are organized into two distinct dimers, P1A-P2B and P1B-P2A. To investigate the functional contribution of each dimer on the ribosome, RTA (ricin A chain), which binds to the stalk to depurinate the SRL (sarcin/ricin loop), was used as a molecular probe in yeast mutants in which the binding site for one or the other dimer on P0 was deleted. Ribosome depurination and toxicity of RTA were greatly reduced in mutants containing only P1A-P2B on the ribosome, whereas those with only P1B-P2A were reduced less in depurination and were unaffected in toxicity. Ribosomes bearing P1B-P2A were depurinated by RTA at a similar level as wild-type, but ribosomes bearing P1A-P2B were depurinated at a much lower level invitro. The latter ribosomes showed the lowest association and almost no dissociation with RTA by surface plasmon resonance. These results indicate that the P1B-P2A dimer is more critical for facilitating the access of RTA to the SRL, providing the first invivo evidence for functional divergence between the two stalk dimers on the ribosome. 
Patterns of structural dynamics in RACK1 protein retained throughout evolution: a hydrogen-deuterium exchange study of three orthologs.	RACK1 is a member of the WD repeat family of proteins and is involved in multiple fundamental cellular processes. An intriguing feature of RACK1 is its ability to interact with at least 80 different protein partners. Thus, the structural features enabling such interactomic flexibility are of great interest. Several previous studies of the crystal structures of RACK1 orthologs described its detailed architecture and confirmed predictions that RACK1 adopts a seven-bladed -propeller fold. However, this did not explain its ability to bind to multiple partners. We performed hydrogen-deuterium (H-D) exchange mass spectrometry on three orthologs of RACK1 (human, yeast, and plant) to obtain insights into the dynamic properties of RACK1 in solution. All three variants retained similar patterns of deuterium uptake, with some pronounced differences that can be attributed to RACK1's divergent biological functions. In all cases, the most rigid structural elements were confined to B-C turns and, to some extent, strands B and C, while the remaining regions retained much flexibility. We also compared the average rate constants for H-D exchange in different regions of RACK1 and found that amide protons in some regions exchanged at least 1000-fold faster than in others. We conclude that its evolutionarily retained structural architecture might have allowed RACK1 to accommodate multiple molecular partners. This was exemplified by our additional analysis of yeast RACK1 dimer, which showed stabilization, as well as destabilization, of several interface regions upon dimer formation. 
The caveolin-binding motif of the pathogen-related yeast protein Pry1, a member of the CAP protein superfamily, is required for in vivo export of cholesteryl acetate.	Proteins belonging to the CAP superfamily are present in all kingdoms of life and have been implicated in different physiological processes. Their molecular mode of action, however, is poorly understood. Saccharomyces cerevisiae expresses three members of this superfamily, pathogen-related yeast (Pry)1, -2, and -3. We have recently shown that Pry function is required for the secretion of cholesteryl acetate and that Pry proteins bind cholesterol and cholesteryl acetate, suggesting that CAP superfamily members may generally act to bind sterols or related small hydrophobic compounds. Here, we analyzed the mode of sterol binding by Pry1. Computational modeling indicates that ligand binding could occur through displacement of a relatively poorly conserved flexible loop, which in some CAP family members displays homology to the caveolin-binding motif. Point mutations within this motif abrogated export of cholesteryl acetate but did not affect binding of cholesterol. Mutations of residues located outside the caveolin-binding motif, or mutations in highly conserved putative catalytic residues had no effect on export of cholesteryl acetate or on lipid binding. These results indicate that the caveolin-binding motif of Pry1, and possibly of other CAP family members, is crucial for selective lipid binding and that lipid binding may occur through displacement of the loop containing this motif.
Modulation of the Hsp90 chaperone cycle by a stringent client protein.	Hsp90 is the most abundant molecular chaperone in the eukaryotic cell. One of the most stringent clients is the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), whose invivo function strictly depends on the interaction with the Hsp90 machinery. However, the molecular mechanism of this interaction has been elusive. Here we have reconstituted the interaction of Hsp90 with hormone-bound GR using purified components. Our biochemical and structural analyses define the binding site for GR on Hsp90 and reveal that binding of GR modulates the conformational cycle of Hsp90. FRET experiments demonstrate that a partially closed form of the Hsp90 dimer is the preferred conformation for interaction. Consistent with this, the conformational cycle of Hsp90 is decelerated, and its ATPase activity decreases. Hsp90 cochaperones differentially affect formation of the Hsp90-GR complex, serving as control elements for cycle progression and revealing an intricate interplay of client and cochaperones as molecular modulators of the Hsp90 machine. 
Three conserved histidine residues contribute to mitochondrial iron transport through mitoferrins.	Iron is an essential element for almost all organisms. In eukaryotes, it is mainly used in mitochondria for the biosynthesis of iron-sulfur clusters and haem group maturation. Iron is delivered into the mitochondrion by mitoferrins, members of the MCF (mitochondrial carrier family), through an unknown mechanism. In the present study, the yeast homologues of these proteins, Mrs3p (mitochondrial RNA splicing 3) and Mrs4p, were studied by inserting them into liposomes. In this context, they could transport Fe2+ across the proteoliposome membrane, as shown using the iron chelator bathophenanthroline. A series of amino acid-modifying reagents were screened for their effects on Mrs3p-mediated iron transport. The results of the present study suggest that carboxy and imidazole groups are essential for iron transport. This was confirmed by invivo complementation assays, which demonstrated that three highly conserved histidine residues are important for Mrs3p function. These histidine residues are not conserved in other MCF members and thus they are likely to play a specific role in iron transport. A model describing how these residues help iron to transit smoothly across the carrier cavity is proposed and compared with the structural and biochemical data available for other carriers in this family. 
A new set of highly efficient, tag-cleaving proteases for purifying recombinant proteins.	Engineered protein tags that confer specific binding to standardized affinity resins have revolutionized recombinant protein purification. Ideally, these tags should, however, be removed during or following purification to restore an authentic N-terminus. We introduce here a new set of proteases and corresponding protease recognition modules that are optimally suited for this purpose: a SUMO-specific and a NEDD8-specific protease from Brachypodium distachyon (bdSENP1 and bdNEDP1), the NEDP1 protease from Salmo salar (ssNEDP1), Saccharomyces cerevisiae Atg4p (scAtg4) and Xenopus laevis Usp2 (xlUsp2). These new proteases are highly specific and cleave tags from a 50-fold (xlUsp2) to 10,000-fold (bdSENP1) molar excess of substrate per hour at 0C. They are thus up to 1000-fold more active than TEV protease. The most efficient protease, bdSENP1, is even more active and far more salt tolerant than its yeast ortholog scUlp1, allowing efficient tag removal also in high salt buffers containing, e.g. 1M NaCl. ssNEDP1 is distinguished by an exceptional salt tolerance, and a considerable tolerance toward charged and bulky residues in the P1' position. xlUsp2 is unique in that it can restore, with low efficiency though, an N-terminal proline. As shown in the accompanying paper (S. Frey, D. Grlich, J. Chromatogr. A (2014), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.chroma.2014.02.029), the orthogonality between bdSENP1, NEDP1, scAtg4 and xlUsp2 can be exploited for purifying multi-subunit protein complexes of defined stoichiometry. 
Evaluating rare amino acid substitutions (RGC_CAMs) in a yeast model clade.	When inferring phylogenetic relationships, not all sites in a sequence alignment are equally informative. One recently proposed approach that takes advantage of this inequality relies on sites that contain amino acids whose replacement requires multiple substitutions. Identifying these so-called RGC_CAM substitutions (after Rare Genomic Changes as Conserved Amino acids-Multiple substitutions) requires that, first, at any given site in the amino acid sequence alignment, there must be a minimum of two different amino acids; second, each amino acid must be present in at least two taxa; and third, the amino acids must require a minimum of two nucleotide substitutions to replace each other. Although theory suggests that RGC_CAM substitutions are expected to be rare and less likely to be homoplastic, the informativeness of RGC_CAM substitutions has not been extensively evaluated in biological data sets. We investigated the quality of RGC_CAM substitutions by examining their degree of homoplasy and internode certainty in nearly 2.7 million aligned amino acid sites from 5,261 proteins from five species belonging to the yeast Saccharomyces sensu stricto clade whose phylogeny is well-established. We identified 2,647 sites containing RGC_CAM substitutions, a number that contrasts sharply with the 100,887 sites containing RGC_non-CAM substitutions (i.e., changes between amino acids that require only a single nucleotide substitution). We found that RGC_CAM substitutions had significantly lower homoplasy than RGC_non-CAM ones; specifically RGC_CAM substitutions showed a per-site average homoplasy index of 0.100, whereas RGC_non-CAM substitutions had a homoplasy index of 0.215. Internode certainty values were also higher for sites containing RGC_CAM substitutions than for RGC_non-CAM ones. These results suggest that RGC_CAM substitutions possess a strong phylogenetic signal and are useful markers for phylogenetic inference despite their rarity. 
The effect of intrachain electrostatic repulsion on conformational disorder and dynamics of the Sic1 protein.	The yeast cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor Sic1 is a disordered protein that, upon multisite phosphorylation, forms a dynamic complex with the Cdc4 subunit of an SCF ubiquitin ligase. To understand the multisite phosphorylation dependence of the Sic1:Cdc4 interaction, which ultimately leads to a sharp cell cycle transition, the conformational properties of the disordered Sic1 N-terminal targeting region were studied using single-molecule fluorescence spectroscopy. Multiple conformational populations with different sensitivities to charge screening were identified by performing experiments in nondenaturing salts and ionic denaturants. Both the end-to-end distance and the hydrodynamic radius decrease monotonically with increasing the salt concentration, and a rollover of the chain dimensions in high denaturant conditions is observed. The data were fit to the polyelectrolyte binding-screening model, yielding parameters such as the excluded volume of the uncharged chain and the binding constant to denaturant. An overall scaling factor of 1.2 was needed for fitting the data, which implies that Sic1 cannot be approximated by a random Gaussian chain. Fluorescence correlation spectroscopy reveals Sic1 structure fluctuations occurring on both fast (10-100 ns) and slow (10 ms) time scales, with the fast phase absent in low salt solutions. The results of this study provide direct evidence that long-range intrachain electrostatic repulsions are a significant factor for the conformational landscape of Sic1, and support the role of electrostatics in determining the overall shape and hydrodynamic properties of intrinsically disordered proteins. 
The crystal structure of S. cerevisiae Sad1, a catalytically inactive deubiquitinase that is broadly required for pre-mRNA splicing.	Sad1 is an essential splicing factor initially identified in a genetic screen in Saccharomyces cerevisiae for snRNP assembly defects. Based on sequence homology, Sad1, or USP39 in humans, is predicted to comprise two domains: a zinc finger ubiquitin binding domain (ZnF-UBP) and an inactive ubiquitin-specific protease (iUSP) domain, both of which are well conserved. The role of these domains in splicing and their interaction with ubiquitin are unknown. We first used splicing microarrays to analyze Sad1 function in vivo and found that Sad1 is critical for the splicing of nearly all yeast intron-containing genes. By using in vitro assays, we then showed that it is required for the assembly of the active spliceosome. To gain structural insights into Sad1 function, we determined the crystal structure of the full-length protein at 1.8  resolution. In the structure, the iUSP domain forms the characteristic ubiquitin binding pocket, though with an amino acid substitution in the active site that results in complete inactivation of the enzymatic activity of the domain. The ZnF-UBP domain of Sad1 shares high structural similarly to other ZnF-UBPs; however, Sad1's ZnF-UBP does not possess the canonical ubiquitin binding motif. Given the precedents for ZnF-UBP domains to function as activators for their neighboring USP domains, we propose that Sad1's ZnF-UBP acts in a ubiquitin-independent capacity to recruit and/or activate Sad1's iUSP domain to interact with the spliceosome. 
Hst3 is turned over by a replication stress-responsive SCF(Cdc4) phospho-degron.	Hst3 is the histone deacetylase that removes histone H3K56 acetylation. H3K56 acetylation is a cell-cycle- and damage-regulated chromatin marker, and proper regulation of H3K56 acetylation is important for replication, genomic stability, chromatin assembly, and the response to and recovery from DNA damage. Understanding the regulation of enzymes that regulate H3K56 acetylation is of great interest, because the loss of H3K56 acetylation leads to genomic instability. HST3 is controlled at both the transcriptional and posttranscriptional level. Here, we show that Hst3 is targeted for turnover by the ubiquitin ligase SCF(Cdc4) after phosphorylation of a multisite degron. In addition, we find that Hst3 turnover increases in response to replication stress in a Rad53-dependent way. Turnover of Hst3 is promoted by Mck1 activity in both conditions. The Hst3 degron contains two canonical Cdc4 phospho-degrons, and the phosphorylation of each of these is required for efficient turnover both in an unperturbed cell cycle and in response to replication stress. 
Resolving hot spots in the C-terminal dimerization domain that determine the stability of the molecular chaperone Hsp90.	Human heat shock protein of 90 kDa (hHsp90) is a homodimer that has an essential role in facilitating malignant transformation at the molecular level. Inhibiting hHsp90 function is a validated approach for treating different types of tumors. Inhibiting the dimerization of hHsp90 via its C-terminal domain (CTD) should provide a novel way to therapeutically interfere with hHsp90 function. Here, we predicted hot spot residues that cluster in the CTD dimerization interface by a structural decomposition of the effective energy of binding computed by the MM-GBSA approach and confirmed these predictions using in silico alanine scanning with DrugScore(PPI). Mutation of these residues to alanine caused a significant decrease in the melting temperature according to differential scanning fluorimetry experiments, indicating a reduced stability of the mutant hHsp90 complexes. Size exclusion chromatography and multi-angle light scattering studies demonstrate that the reduced stability of the mutant hHsp90 correlates with a lower complex stoichiometry due to the disruption of the dimerization interface. These results suggest that the identified hot spot residues can be used as a pharmacophoric template for identifying and designing small-molecule inhibitors of hHsp90 dimerization.
A mutation in a novel yeast proteasomal gene, RPN11/MPR1, produces a cell cycle arrest, overreplication of nuclear and mitochondrial DNA, and an altered mitochondrial morphology.	We report here the functional characterization of an essential Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene, MPR1, coding for a regulatory proteasomal subunit for which the name Rpn11p has been proposed. For this study we made use of the mpr1-1 mutation that causes the following pleiotropic defects. At 24 degreesC growth is delayed on glucose and impaired on glycerol, whereas no growth is seen at 36 degreesC on either carbon source. Microscopic observation of cells growing on glucose at 24 degreesC shows that most of them bear a large bud, whereas mitochondrial morphology is profoundly altered. A shift to the nonpermissive temperature produces aberrant elongated cell morphologies, whereas the nucleus fails to divide. Flow cytometry profiles after the shift to the nonpermissive temperature indicate overreplication of both nuclear and mitochondrial DNA. Consistently with the identification of Mpr1p with a proteasomal subunit, the mutation is complemented by the human POH1 proteasomal gene. Moreover, the mpr1-1 mutant grown to stationary phase accumulates ubiquitinated proteins. Localization of the Rpn11p/Mpr1p protein has been studied by green fluorescent protein fusion, and the fusion protein has been found to be mainly associated to cytoplasmic structures. For the first time, a proteasomal mutation has also revealed an associated mitochondrial phenotype. We actually showed, by the use of [rho degrees] cells derived from the mutant, that the increase in DNA content per cell is due in part to an increase in the amount of mitochondrial DNA. Moreover, microscopy of mpr1-1 cells grown on glucose showed that multiple punctate mitochondrial structures were present in place of the tubular network found in the wild-type strain. These data strongly suggest that mpr1-1 is a valuable tool with which to study the possible roles of proteasomal function in mitochondrial biogenesis.
