Lysine alpha-ketoglutarate reductase and lysine oxidation are distributed in the extrahepatic tissues of chickens.	In animals, lysine oxidation is thought to occur primarily via the activity of lysine alpha-ketoglutarate reductase (LKR). This activity was reported previously in chicken liver, but no work on the tissue distribution of the enzyme in chickens has been reported. Therefore, LKR activity was assayed in liver, kidney, pancreas, heart, brain, lung, spleen, muscle, and intestinal tissues in chickens as was the in vitro ability of tissue homogenates to oxidize lysine. Additionally, the expression of LKR mRNA was assessed by RT-PCR. We found LKR to be present in all tissues studied by both enzymatic analysis and mRNA abundance. Additionally, all tissues assayed oxidized lysine. The extent of lysine oxidation differed among the tissues, consistent with the different pathways of lysine oxidation in the different tissues. These studies demonstrate that LKR is widely distributed in chicken tissues and that tissues other than liver can contribute to whole-body lysine oxidation.
Supporting role of lysine 13 and glutamate 16 in the acid-base mechanism of saccharopine dehydrogenase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Saccharopine dehydrogenase (SDH) catalyzes the NAD+ dependent oxidative deamination of saccharopine to form lysine (Lys) and α-ketoglutarate (α-kg). The active site of SDH has a number of conserved residues that are believed important to the overall reaction. Lysine 13, positioned near the active site base (K77), forms a hydrogen bond to E78 neutralizing it, and contributing to setting the pKa of the catalytic residues to near neutral pH. Glutamate 16 is within hydrogen bond distance to the Nε atom of R18, which has strong H-bonding interactions with the α-carboxylate and α-oxo groups of α-kg. Mutation of K13 to M and E16 to Q decreased kcat by about 15-fold, and primary and solvent deuterium kinetic isotope effects measured with the mutant enzymes indicate hydride transfer is rate limiting for the overall reaction. The pH-rate profiles for K13M exhibited no pH dependence, consistent with an increase in negative charge in the active site resulting in the perturbation in the pKas of catalytic groups. Elimination of E16 affects optimal positioning of R18, which is involved in binding and holding α-kg in the correct conformation for optimum catalysis. In agreement, a ΔΔG°' of 2.60 kcal/mol is estimated from the change in Kα-kg for replacing E16 with Q.
