Plasma vitamin B6 concentrations in Nigerian adolescents.	Vitamin B6 status was assessed from dietary and plasma vitamin B6 concentration using Saccharomyces uvarum as test organism, and erythrocyte alanine amino transferase activity (E-ALAT). The subjects participating in the study were 72 males and 30 females (aged 10-18 years) who resided in a boarding institution. Mean daily dietary vitamin B6 and protein intakes were 1.56 +/- 0.42 mg and 63.0 +/- 9.6 g respectively. The corresponding mean plasma vitamin B6 concentration was 194 +/- 44.2 nmol/l. Neither age, sex nor menarche had significant effect (P less than 0.05) on plasma vitamin B6 concentration of these adolescents. Dietary vitamin B6 but not protein intake correlated with plasma vitamin B6 (r = 0.3076, P less than 0.002). However, low dietary vitamin B6/protein ratio (less than 0.02 mg/g) was not reflected in plasma vitamin B6 concentration, but low plasma vitamin B6 concentration (120-179 nmol/l) corresponded to low E-ALAT activity after in vitro addition of pyridoxal phosphate (E-ELAT 16 per cent). A stimulation above 25 per cent, 16-25 per cent and below 16 per cent was used as an indicator of poor, marginal and adequate vitamin B6 status, respectively. Based on these criteria 30.7 per cent, 17.8 per cent and 51.5 per cent of subjects, with corresponding mean plasma vitamin B6 of 150 +/- 28.4, 192 +/- 8.5 and 237 +/- 18.7 nmol/l are of deficient, marginal and adequate vitamin B6 status, respectively.
Examination of protein sequence homologies. VI. The evolution of Escherichia coli L7/L12 equivalent ribosomal proteins ('A' proteins), and the tertiary structure.	Sequence homologies among 23 complete and two partial sequences of ribosomal 'A' proteins from eukaryotes, metabacteria, eubacteria and chloroplasts, equivalent to Escherichia coli L7/L12, were examined using a correlation method that evaluates sequence similarity quantitatively. Examination of 325 comparison matrices prepared for possible combinations of the sequences indicates that 'A' protein sequences can be classified into two types: one is the "prototype" from eubacteria and chloroplasts, and the other is the "transposition type" from eukaryotes and metabacteria, which must have resulted from the internal transposition of the prototype sequence. The transposition type of eukaryotes can further be classified into P1 and P2 lines. Sequences of the P1 line are closer to those of metabacteria than to those of the P2 line. Eleven gaps, as deletion or insertion sites of amino acid residues, are necessary for an alignment of all the sequences. According to the crystallographic data for the C-terminal fragment (CTF) from E. coli L7, all the gaps involved in the CTF are located between segments that correspond to structural and functional elements such as alpha helix, beta strand, turning loop or hinge part. The existence of specific "preservation units" in these molecules is suggested. In contrast, the transposition site is located at the center of an alpha helix element that is involved in a folding domain, indicating that the transposition event was extremely drastic.
Peptide elongation factor 1 from yeasts: purification and biochemical characterization of peptide elongation factors 1 alpha and 1 beta (gamma) from Saccharomyces carlsbergensis and Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	Cytoplasmic elongation factor 1 alpha (EF-1 alpha) [corrected] was purified to homogeneity in high yield from the two different yeasts Saccharomyces carlsbergensis (S. carls.) and Schizosaccharomyces pombe (S. pombe). The purification was easily achieved by CM-Sephadex column chromatography of the breakthrough fractions from DEAE-Sephadex chromatography of cell-free extracts. The basic proteins have a molecular weight of 47,000 for the S. carls. factor and of 49,000 for the S. pombe factor. While the purified yeast EF-1 alpha s function analogously to other eukaryotic factors and the E. coli EF-Tu in Phe-tRNA binding and polyphenylalanine synthesis, the yeast factor unusually hydrolyzed GTP on yeast ribosomes upon addition of Phe-tRNA in the absence of poly(U) as mRNA. This novelty is probably owing to the yeast ribosomes, which are assumed to lack elongation factor 3-equivalent component(s). Trypsin and chymotrypsin selectively cleaved the two yeast factors to generate resistant fragments with the same molecular weight of 43,000 (by trypsin) and of 44,000 (by chymotrypsin), respectively. Those cleavage sites were characteristically protected by the presence of several ligands bound to EF-1 alpha such as GDP, GTP, and aminoacyl-tRNA. Based on the sequence analysis of the fragments generated by the two proteases, the partial amino acid sequence of the S. carls. EF-1 alpha was deduced to be in accordance with the N-terminal region covering positions (1) to 94 and two Lys residues at the C-terminal end of the predicted total sequence of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae (S. cerev.) factor derived from DNA analysis, except for a few N-terminal residues, confirming the predicted S. cerev. sequence at the protein level. EF-1 beta and EF-1 beta gamma were isolated and highly purified as biologically active entities from the two yeasts. EF-1 beta s from the two yeasts have the same molecular weight of 27,000, whereas component gamma of the S. carls. EF-1 beta gamma showed a higher molecular weight (47,000) than that of the S. pombe factor (40,000). It was also shown that a stoichiometric complex was formed between EF-1 alpha and EF-1 beta gamma from S. pombe. Furthermore, a considerable amount of Phe-tRNA binding activity was distributed in the EF-1H (probably EF-1 alpha beta gamma) fraction from freshly prepared cell-free extracts of yeast.
Relationship between phospholipid biosynthesis and the efficiency of the arsenate transport system in yeasts.	In studying the possibility that phosphoinositides which formed complexes with arsenic were involved in the arsenate transport system of yeasts, a comparative study of the phospholipid composition and metabolism was carried out both in Saccharomyces carslbergensis and in its arsenate-adapted variant, which showed a deficient inflow of arsenate. It was found that the lipid composition of the two organisms was quite similar, the main classes of phospholipids being phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphoinositides. The only difference was a 1.5- to 2-fold increase in the proportion of inositides in the arsenate-adapted cells. When the transport of arsenate became inactivated in the nonadapted yeasts after a 30- to 60-min exposure to 10(-2)m arsenate, an increment of inositides of 29 to 50% over the original level was also detected. A study of the incorporation of radioactivity from uniformly labeled (14)C-maltose and from (32)P-orthophosphate ((32)P(i)) demonstrated a decreased rate of lipid biosynthesis in the arsenate-adapted cells as compared to the normal nonadapted ones. The turnover of the phosphate in phospholipids demonstrated no turnover in phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine, and a slow turnover in phosphoinositides. It could be inferred that a normal rate of phospholipid (phosphoinositides) biosynthesis is necessary to have a normal arsenate uptake and that inositide accumulation impairs both the mechanism responsible for the uptake and accumulation of arsenate and the rate of lipid biosynthesis. No differences were found in the deoxyribonucleic acid or protein content of the two types of cells. Also, the arsenate-adapted cells, once freed of external arsenate, showed an increased uptake of (32)P(i) from low external concentrations of phosphate (10(-6) to 10(-8)m, 10-fold over that observed in AsS cells). These results are indicative of independent behavior in phosphate and arsenate transport systems.
Homology of ribosomal ribonucleic acid diverse bacterial species with Escherichia coli and Bacillus stearothermophilus.	Hybridization competition experiments were used to examine the ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) homologies of 22 bacteria and 3 higher organisms with Escherichia coli and Bacillus stearothermophilus. Although little or no homology was observed with the higher organisms, the bacteria showed a wide range of homologies. Organisms whose rRNA showed closer homology to E. coli rRNA showed less rRNA homology to B. stearothermophilus rRNA and vice versa.
Occurrence of long-chain fatty acids and glycolipids in the cell envelope fractions of baker's yeast.	1. The total yield of fatty acids from the whole envelopes was markedly higher than that obtained from the ordinary cell walls. In both samples the major fatty acids were C(16) and C(18) acids. 2. The whole envelopes contained C(18) acids and long-chain (C(19)-C(26)) fatty acids, in a higher proportion than did the ordinary cell walls. Fifteen fatty acids with more than 18 carbon atoms were identified, among which 2-hydroxy-C(26:0) and C(26:0) acids predominated. 3. A complex sphingolipid containing inositol, phosphorus and mannose was isolated from the whole cell envelopes. The main fatty acids of this lipid were 2-hydroxy-C(26:0) and C(26:0) acids. It was concluded that this sphingolipid is present both in the ordinary cell wall and in the plasma membrane of baker's yeast. 4. The neutral lipids amounted to over 50% and the glycerophosphatides to about 30% of the total fatty acid content of the whole envelope. The major fatty acids in these lipids were C(16:1), C(18:1) and C(16:0) acids. The proportion of fatty acids with more than 18 carbon atoms was lowest in the neutral lipids, whereas the neutral glycolipids contained the highest percentage of these fatty acids. Acidic glycolipids amounted to 14% of the total fatty acid content of the whole envelope. The presence of a cerebroside sulphate in this lipid fraction was demonstrated, whereas the high content of 2-hydroxy-C(26:0) acid found is caused by the complex inositol- and mannose-containing sphingolipid.
Recovery of exocellular acid phosphatase activity on Saccharomyces mellis after treatment of the organism with reagents that affect the cell surface.	Derepressed cells of Saccharomyces mellis were treated in one of several different ways to either elute or inactivate the exocellular enzyme, acid phosphatase. The enzyme was either (i) eluted from resting cells with 0.5 m KCl plus 0.1% beta-mercaptoethanol, (ii) eluted from exponential phase cells by growing the organism in derepressing media containing 0.5 m KCl, or (iii) inactivated on exponential phase cells by adding sufficient acid or base to growth media to destroy the enzyme but not enough to kill the cells. These treatments did not affect viability. Treated cells were transferred to fresh growth media or some other reaction mixture, and the kinetics of recovery of acid phosphatase activity was studied. In these reaction mixtures, enzyme was synthesized only by actively growing cells. Treated resting cells were indistinguishable from untreated, repressed resting cells in that the organism inoculated into complete growth medium remained in the lag phase for approximately 6 hr before both growth and enzyme synthesis began. Exponential phase derepressed cells treated by method (ii) or (iii) were transferred to fresh medium under conditions that allowed growth to continue. The cells immediately started to manufacture enzyme at a rate greater than normal until the steady-state level was reached, thus demonstrating a feedback control system. Exponential phase repressed cells were also transferred to fresh derepressing media under conditions which sustained growth. Though these cells began to grow immediately, there was a lag before acid phosphatase synthesis began followed by a lengthy inductive period. The length of the period of induction could be correlated with the polyphosphate content of the cells. As the supply of polyphosphate neared exhaustion, the rate of synthesis increased rapidly until it was greater than normal; this differential rate was sustained until the steady-state concentration was reached. When derepressed cells grow in a medium containing 0.5 m KCl, some acid phosphatase activity is found free in the culture fluid and some remains firmly attached to the cells despite the presence of the salt. The bound activity is subject to feedback control, but the steady-state level of this activity on the cells is only one-third that of the acid phosphatase on cells growing in nonsaline media. The extracellular phosphatase is produced at a rate that is several-fold greater than that of the exocellular enzyme in a nonsaline medium. The synthesis of the extracellular enzyme does not seem to be controlled by a feedback mechanism but is produced at a maximal rate as long as the cells are growing.
Preparation, purification and analyses of thirteen alkali-stable dinucleotides from yeast ribonucleic acid.	Of the 16 alkali-stable dinucleotides known to be obtained by hydrolysis of commercial yeast RNA with alkali, 13 were prepared in quantities of the order of 10mg or more. The samples, with only one exception, contain at least 90% of dinucleotide, and spectroscopic constants and nucleotide-sequence determinations, although not conclusive, indicate a high degree of purity of these products. The small dinucleotide fraction in 150g of RNA hydrolysed with alkali (1-2% of the total nucleotides) was separated from the mononucleotides by stepwise ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-cellulose columns and resolved into seven fractions containing from one to four different dinucleotides by electrophoresis on paper at pH3.0. These fractions were resolved into their constituent dinucleotides by chromatography in ammonium sulphate. Contamination of the products by impurities from the paper was minimized by washing it before using it for chromatography or electrophoresis and, by using a thick grade of paper (Whatman no. 17), it was possible to handle and purify relatively large quantities of nucleotides.
Thermal and Mg2+ dependent behavior of pseudouridines at 39th and 55th of yeast tRNAPhe.	Pseudouridine psi 55 alone and both psi 55 and psi 39 in yeast tRNAPhe are selectively modified with fluorescent reagent of 4-bromomethyl-7-methoxycoumarin (BMC). The change of fluorescence intensity was measured as a function of temperature and Mg2+ concentration. Fluorescent quenching shows the stacked and unstacked forms of Y base, dependent on Mg2+ concentration. In contrast, Mg2+ had no effect on psi 55-BMC in T psi C loop at 20 degrees C. Fluorescence on titrating Mg2+ exhibited a kind of Mg2+-induced structural collapse at the corner of L-structure. The melting of psi 55-BMC takes place at 70 degrees C in 10mM Mg2+. At very low Mg2+ concentration, melting takes place at 35 degrees C. The melting of psi 39-BMC, located near the anticodon loop, was observed before the unfolding of the whole structure of tRNAPhe. A conformational transition of the anticodon loop takes place at a lower temperature and it is also expected in the quenching experiment of Y base.
Protein crystals and tubuli bundles in yeast cells. VI. Light-and electron microscopy studies as well as biochemical studies on alcohol dehydrogenase activity of isolated crystals]	Isolated crystals from Saccharomyces carlsbergensis, stabilized by Cd2+ or Zn2+, retain their enzymatic activity as shown by topochemical reactions. During these reactions the crystals disintegrate characteristically. Stages of this disintegration and deposition of reaction products have been demonstrated by light and electron microscopy. Ground plasmatic and mitochondrial alcoholdhydrogenase has been solubilized by means of 0.01 M EDTA from Zn2+ stabilized crystals separated by gel electrophoresis and proved to be active.
