Topoisomerase poisoning activity of novel disaccharide anthracyclines.	Doxorubicin and idarubicin are very effective anticancer drugs in the treatment of human hematological malignancies and solid tumors. These agents are well known topoisomerase II poisons; however, some anthracycline analogs recently have been shown to poison topoisomerase I. In the present work, we assayed novel disaccharide analogs and the parent drug, idarubicin, for their poisoning effects of human topoisomerase I and topoisomerases IIalpha and IIbeta. Drugs were evaluated with a DNA cleavage assay in vitro and with a yeast system to test whether the agents were able to poison the enzymes in vivo. We have found that the test agents are potent poisons of both topoisomerases IIalpha and IIbeta. The axial orientation of the second sugar relative to the first one of the novel disaccharide analogs was shown to be required for poisoning activity and cytotoxicity. Interestingly, idarubicin and the new analogs stimulated topoisomerase I-mediated DNA cleavage at low levels in vitro. As expected, the cytotoxic level of the drug was highly affected by the content of topoisomerase II; nevertheless, the test agents had a yeast cell-killing activity that also was weakly dependent on cellular topoisomerase I content. The results are relevant for the full understanding of the molecular mechanism of topoisomerase poisoning by anticancer drugs, and they define structural determinants of anthracyclines that may help in the rational design of new compounds directed against topoisomerase I.
Relationship between lipid composition, frequency of ethanol-induced respiratory deficient mutants, and ethanol tolerance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The frequency of ethanol-induced respiratory deficient mutants and lipid composition in two Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains showing different degrees of ethanol tolerance were investigated. The more ethanol-tolerant strain exhibited a lower frequency of ethanol-induced respiratory deficient mutants than the less ethanol-tolerant strain. In addition, the more ethanol-tolerant strain contained a higher ergosterol/phospholipid ratio, a higher proportion of phosphatidylcholine, a lower proportion of phosphatidylethanolamine, a higher incorporation of long-chain fatty acids in total phospholipids, and a slightly higher proportion of unsaturated fatty acids in total phospholipids than the less ethanol-tolerant strain. These results show a clear relationship between the lipid composition, the frequency of ethanol-induced respiratory deficient mutants, and the ethanol tolerance of S. cerevisiae. A possible explanation of this relationship is discussed.
Iridoid and seco-iridoid glucosides from Chioccoca alba (Rubiaceae).	Phytochemical investigation of Chioccoca alba afforded three new iridoids, alboside I, alboside II and alboside III, and a new seco-iridoid alboside V. Alboside IV showed moderate activity towards the DNA repair-deficient mutant RS321 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The structural elucidation of the new compounds was performed by ES-MS and by 1D and 2D NMR spectroscopic methods.
Antifungal properties and target evaluation of three putative bacterial histidine kinase inhibitors.	Histidine protein kinases have been explored as potential antibacterial drug targets. The recent identification of two-component histidine kinases in fungi has led us to investigate the antifungal properties of three bacterial histidine kinase inhibitors (RWJ-49815, RWJ-49968, and RWJ-61907). All three compounds were found to inhibit growth of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Candida albicans strains, with MICs ranging from 1 to 20 microg/ml. However, deletion of SLN1, the only histidine kinase in S. cerevisiae, did not alter drug efficacy. In vitro kinase assays were performed by using the Sln1 histidine kinase purified from bacteria as a fusion protein to glutathione S-transferase. RWJ-49815 and RWJ-49968 inhibited kinase a 50% inhibitory concentration of 10 microM, whereas RWJ-61907 failed to inhibit at concentrations up to 100 microM. Based on these results, we conclude that these compounds have antifungal properties; however, their mode of action appears to be independent of histidine kinase inhibition.
The oxidative stress response mediated via Pos9/Skn7 is negatively regulated by the Ras/PKA pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Exposure of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to elevated concentrations of hydrogen peroxide induces transcription of several genes involved in the oxidative stress response. Two major transcription factors are involved in this induction, Pos9/Skn7 and Yap1. Fusions of either Yap1 or Pos9/Skn7 with the Gal4 DNA binding domain are active as transcription factors. Gal4-Yap1-dependent reporter gene activity is only weakly regulated by oxidative stress. In contrast, fusion of the Gal4 DNA binding domain to the Pos9/Skn7 protein results in a transcription factor that is independent of the YAP1 gene and is strictly regulated by oxidative stress, indicating that a signaling cascade impinges on the Pos9/Skn7 protein. We have observed that the Ras/PKA (cAMP-dependent protein kinase A) pathway affects this signaling. When PKA activity was low (in the presence of multicopy PDE2 or a cyr1(D822-->A) mutation) maximum reporter gene activity was observed even in the absence of oxidative stress. In contrast, high PKA activity (in strains mutant for either pde2 or bcy1, or expressing the dominant active Ras2Val19) resulted in a complete loss of activation following oxidative stress. The transcription of Pos9/Skn7 target genes was also affected in Ras/PKA pathway mutants. Furthermore, we demonstrated that activated Pos9/Skn7 is necessary for Yap1-dependent reporter gene induction.
Specific negative effects resulting from elevated levels of the recombinational repair protein Rad54p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	RAD54 is an important gene in the RAD52 group that controls recombinational repair of DNA damage in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Rad54p is a DNA-dependent ATPase and shares seven conserved sequence motifs with proteins of the Swi2p/Snf2p family. Genetic analysis of mutations in motif IA, the putative ATP-binding fold of Rad54p, demonstrated the functional importance of this motif. Overexpression of these mutant proteins resulted in strong, dominant-negative effects on cell survival. High levels of full-length wild-type Rad54p or specific parts of Rad54p also resulted in negative effects, dependent on the ploidy of the host cell. This differential effect was not under a/alpha mating-type control. Deletion of the RAD54 gene led to a small but significant increase in the mutation rate. However, the negative overexpression effects in haploid cells could not be explained by an accumulation of (recessive) lethal mutations. All negative overexpression effects were found to be enhanced under genotoxic stress. We suggest that the negative overexpression effects are the result of unbalanced protein-protein interactions, indicating that Rad54p is involved in multiple interactions, dependent on the physiological situation. Diploid wild-type cells contained an estimated 7000 Rad54p molecules/cell, whereas haploid cells about 3500/cell. Rad54p levels were highest in actively growing cells compared to stationary phase cells. Rad54 protein levels were found to be elevated after DNA damage.
Disruption of six Saccharomyces cerevisiae novel genes and phenotypic analysis of the deletants.	As a part of the EUROFAN programme, six open reading frames from Saccharomyces cerevisiae (YNL083w, YNL086w, YNL087w, YNL097c, YDL100c and YOR086c) were disrupted in two genetic backgrounds, FY1679 and W303. Individual deletions in diploid strains and tetrad analysis of heterozygous deletants revealed that none of them is essential. Basic phenotypic analysis did not reveal any significant difference between the parental and mutant strains. Although YNL087w and YOR086c are 55% identical, the double disruptant also behaves the same as the parental cells. Ydl100p seems to be involved in metal detoxification, the phenotype of the null mutants being enhanced when the assays are performed at 37 degrees C.
Disruption of six novel yeast genes located on chromosome II reveals one gene essential for vegetative growth and two required for sporulation and conferring hypersensitivity to various chemicals.	A PCR-based method for targeted gene deletion by kanMX4 module was used to construct complete deletion mutants of six individual open reading frames from chromosome II: YBR128c, YBR131w, YBR133c, YBR137w, YBR138c and YBR142w. The ORFs were deleted in two diploid strains, FY1679 and W303. Sporulation and tetrad analysis revealed that only one ORF, YBR142w, encoding a putative DEAD-box RNA helicase, is an essential gene. A systematic phenotypic analysis of the deleted mutants was carried out. Homozygous diploids ybr128cDelta/ybr128cDelta and ybr131wDelta/ybr131wDelta did not sporulate. The ybr131cDelta mutant whether haploid or homozygous diploid, in addition displayed an increased sensitivity to Caffeine, Calcium and Zinc, and to emphasize this phenotype we named the gene CCZ1. ORF YBR133c was independently reported by others as Histone Synthetic Lethal (HSL7) (Ma et al., 1996). We found that the aberrant morphology characteristic for ybr133cDelta (hsl7Delta) cells was observed in W303 but not in FY1679 genetic background. Furthermore, we observed that deletion of YBR133c had a pleiotropic effect under a wide range of conditions, including increased sensitivity to calcium, caffeine, calcofluor white, vanadate and verapamil. The effects of the deletion were reinforced in W303 background. We found no phenotypic effects of the two remaining deletions, ybr137wDelta and ybr138cDelta.
Glutamic acid 472 and lysine 480 of the sodium pump alpha 1 subunit are essential for activity. Their conservation in pyrophosphatases suggests their involvement in recognition of ATP phosphates.	P-type ATPases such as the Na+,K+-ATPase (sodium pump) hydrolyze ATP to pump ions through biological membranes against their electrochemical gradients. The mechanisms that couple ATP hydrolysis to the vectorial ion transport are not yet understood, but unveiling structures that participate in ATP binding and in the formation of the ionophore might help to gain insight into this process. Looking at the alpha- and beta-phosphates of ATP as a pyrophosphate molecule, we found that peptides highly conserved among all soluble inorganic pyrophosphatases are also present in ion-transporting ATPases. Included therein are Glu48 and Lys56 of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae pyrophosphatase (SCE1-PPase) that are essential for the activity of this enzyme and have been shown in crystallographic analysis to interact with phosphate molecules. To test the hypothesis that equivalent amino acids are also essential for the activity of ion-transporting ATPases, Glu472 and Lys480 of the sodium pump alpha 1 subunit corresponding to Glu48 and Lys56 of SCE1-PPase were mutated to various amino acids. Mutants of the sodium pump alpha1 subunit were expressed in yeast and analyzed for their ATPase activity and their ability to bind ouabain in the presence of either ATP, Mg2+, and Na+ or phosphate and Mg2+. All four mutants investigated, Glu472Ala, Glu472Asp, Lys480Ala, and Lys480Arg, display only a fraction of the ATPase activity obtained with the wild-type enzyme. The same applies with respect to their ability to bind ouabain, where maximum ouabain binding to the mutants accounts for only about 10% of the binding obtained with the wild-type enzyme. On the basis of our results, we conclude that Glu472 and Lys480 are essential for the activity of the sodium pump. Their function is probably to arrest the alpha- and beta-phosphate groups of ATP in a proper position prior to hydrolysis of the gamma-phosphate group. The identification of these amino acids as essential components of the ATP-recognizing mechanism of the pump has resulted in a testable hypothesis for the initial interactions of the sodium pump, and possibly of other P-type ATPases, with ATP.
Characterization of Saccharomyces cerevisiae ubiquinone-deficient mutants.	Ubiquinol (QH2) is a lipid-soluble molecule that participates in cellular redox reactions. Previous studies have shown that yeast mutants lacking QH2 are hypersensitive to treatment with polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) indicating that QH2 can function as an antioxidant in vivo. In this study the effect of 1 mM linolenic acid on levels of Q6 and Q6H2 is assessed in both wild-type and respiration-deficient (atp2 delta) strains. The response of Q-deficient mutants to other forms of oxidative stress is further characterized to define those conditions where QH2 acts as an antioxidant. Endogenous antioxidant defense systems were also assessed in wild-type, Q-deficient, and atp2 delta strains. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity decreased and catalase activity increased in both Q-deficient and atp2 delta mutants compared to wild-type cells, suggesting that such changes result from the loss of respiration rather than the lack of Q.
Catalytic inhibition of topoisomerase IIalpha by demethylzeylasterone, a 6-oxophenolic triterpenoid from Kokoona zeylanica.	In a study to evaluate celastroloids as potential anticancer agents, demethylzeylasterone (5), a 6-oxophenolic triterpenoid from Kokoona zeylanica, was found to be an inhibitor of the enzyme topoisomerase IIalpha (IC(50) = 17.6 microM). Studies of the relationship of this inhibitor to both DNA and the enzyme resulted in 5 being classified as a "catalytic inhibitor" of topoisomerase II. Demethylzeylasterone selectively inhibits the growth of the breast cancer cell line MCF-7 (IC(50) = 12.5 microM) without inhibiting the growth of non-small cell lung cancer (NCI-H460) and CNS glioma (SF-268) cell lines. This is the first report of topoisomerase II inhibitory activity in a celastroloid.
Effect of overexpression of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Pad1p on the resistance to phenylacrylic acids and lignocellulose hydrolysates under aerobic and oxygen-limited conditions.	Lignocellulose hydrolysates, obtained by acid hydrolysis for production of bioethanol, contain, in addition to fermentable sugars, compounds that inhibit the fermenting micro-organism. One approach to alleviate the inhibition problem is to use genetic engineering to introduce increased tolerance. Phenylacrylic acid decarboxylase (Pad1p) catalyses a decarboxylation step, by which aromatic carboxylic acids are converted to the corresponding vinyl derivatives. Pad1p-overexpressing Saccharomyces cerevisiae was cultivated in synthetic medium in the presence of model compounds, ferulic acid [(2 E)-3-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)prop-2-enoic acid] and cinnamic acid [(2 E)-3-phenylprop-2-enoic acid], as well as in a dilute acid hydrolysate of spruce to examine the resistance against fermentation inhibitors. Overexpression of S. cerevisiae phenylacrylic acid decarboxylase (Pad1p) resulted in an improved growth rate and ethanol productivity in the presence of ferulic acid, cinnamic acid, and in a dilute acid hydrolysate of spruce. Vinyl guaiacol (2-methoxy-4-vinylphenol) was identified as a major metabolite of ferulic acid, and dihydroferulic acid [3-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)propanoic acid] was detected under oxygen-limited conditions. Styrene (vinylbenzene) and dihydrocinnamic acid (3-phenylpropanoic acid) were identified as metabolites of cinnamic acid. Transformants overexpressing Pad1p had the ability to convert ferulic and cinnamic acid at a faster rate than a control transformant (PAD(C)) not overexpressing Pad1p. This enabled faster growth for Pad1p-overexpressing transformants under both aerobic and oxygen-limited conditions. Pad1p activity was also studied using non-growing cells. The overexpressing transformants showed approximately tenfold higher activity than PAD(C). The Pad1p overexpressing transformants also showed a 22-25% faster glucose consumption rate, a 40-45% faster mannose consumption rate, and a 24-29% faster ethanol production rate in the dilute acid hydrolysate of spruce.
The target of rapamycin signaling pathway regulates mRNA turnover in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The target of rapamycin (TOR) signaling pathway is an important mechanism by which cell growth is regulated by nutrient availability in eukaryotes. We provide evidence that the TOR signaling pathway controls mRNA turnover in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. During nutrient limitation (diauxic shift) or after treatment with rapamycin (a specific inhibitor of TOR), multiple mRNAs were destabilized, whereas the decay of other mRNAs was unaffected. Our findings suggest that the regulation of mRNA decay by the TOR pathway may play a significant role in controlling gene expression in response to nutrient depletion. The inhibition of the TOR pathway accelerated the major mRNA decay mechanism in yeast, the deadenylation-dependent decapping pathway. Of the destabilized mRNAs, two different responses to rapamycin were observed. Some mRNAs were destabilized rapidly, while others were affected only after prolonged exposure. Our data suggest that the mRNAs that respond rapidly are destabilized because they have short poly(A) tails prematurely either as a result of rapid deadenylation or reduced polyadenylation. In contrast, the mRNAs that respond slowly are destabilized by rapid decapping. In summary, the control of mRNA turnover by the TOR pathway is complex in that it specifically regulates the decay of some mRNAs and not others and that it appears to control decay by multiple mechanisms.
Novel stress-responsive genes EMG1 and NOP14 encode conserved, interacting proteins required for 40S ribosome biogenesis.	Under stressful conditions organisms adjust the synthesis, processing, and trafficking of molecules to allow survival from and recovery after stress. In baker's yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the cellular production of ribosomes is tightly matched with environmental conditions and nutrient availability through coordinate transcriptional regulation of genes involved in ribosome biogenesis. On the basis of stress-responsive gene expression and functional studies, we have identified a novel, evolutionarily conserved gene, EMG1, that has similar stress-responsive gene expression patterns as ribosomal protein genes and is required for the biogenesis of the 40S ribosomal subunit. The Emg1 protein is distributed throughout the cell; however, its nuclear localization depends on physical interaction with a newly characterized nucleolar protein, Nop14. Yeast depleted of Nop14 or harboring a temperature-sensitive allele of emg1 have selectively reduced levels of the 20S pre-rRNA and mature18S rRNA and diminished cellular levels of the 40S ribosomal subunit. Neither Emg1 nor Nop14 contain any characterized functional motifs; however, isolation and functional analyses of mammalian orthologues of Emg1 and Nop14 suggest that these proteins are functionally conserved among eukaryotes. We conclude that Emg1 and Nop14 are novel proteins whose interaction is required for the maturation of the 18S rRNA and for 40S ribosome production.
In vivo role for actin-regulating kinases in endocytosis and yeast epsin phosphorylation.	The yeast actin-regulating kinases Ark1p and Prk1p are signaling proteins localized to cortical actin patches, which may be sites of endocytosis. Interactions between the endocytic proteins Pan1p and End3p may be regulated by Prk1p-dependent threonine phosphorylation of Pan1p within the consensus sequence [L/I]xxQxTG. We identified two Prk1p phosphorylation sites within the Pan1p-binding protein Ent1p, a yeast epsin homologue, and demonstrate Prk1p-dependent phosphorylation of both threonines. Converting both threonines to either glutamate or alanine mimics constitutively phosphorylated or dephosphorylated Ent1p, respectively. Synthetic growth defects were observed in a pan1-20 ENT1(EE) double mutant, suggesting that Ent1p phosphorylation negatively regulates the formation/activity of a Pan1p-Ent1p complex. Interestingly, pan1-20 ent2 Delta but not pan1-20 ent1 Delta double mutants had improved growth and endocytosis over the pan1-20 mutant. We found that actin-regulating Ser/Thr kinase (ARK) mutants exhibit endocytic defects and that overexpressing either wild-type or alanine-substituted Ent1p partially suppressed phenotypes associated with loss of ARK kinases, including growth, endocytosis, and actin localization defects. Consistent with synthetic growth defects of pan1-20 ENT1(EE) cells, overexpressing glutamate-substituted Ent1p was deleterious to ARK mutants. Surprisingly, overexpressing the related Ent2p protein could not suppress ARK kinase mutant phenotypes. These results suggest that Ent1p and Ent2p are not completely redundant and may perform opposing functions in endocytosis. These data support the model that, as for clathrin-dependent recycling of synaptic vesicles, yeast endocytic protein phosphorylation inhibits endocytic functions.
In-vitro activity of S. lavandulaefolia (Spanish sage) relevant to treatment of Alzheimer's disease.	Salvia lavandulaefolia Vahl. (Spanish sage) essential oil and individual monoterpenoid constituents have been shown to inhibit the enzyme acetylcholinesterase in-vitro and in-vivo. This activity is relevant to the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, since anticholinesterase drugs are currently the only drugs available to treat Alzheimer's disease. Other activities relevant to Alzheimer's disease include antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and estrogenic effects. Results of in-vitro tests for these activities are reported here for S. lavandulaefolia extracts, the essential oil and its major constituents. Antioxidant activity (inhibition of bovine brain liposome peroxidation) was found in the EtOH extract of the dried herb (5 mg mL(-1)) and the monoterpenoids (0.1 M) alpha- and beta-pinene and 1,8-cineole. Thujone and geraniol had lower antioxidant effects, while camphor had no antioxidant effects. Possible anti-inflammatory activity (eicosanoid inhibition in rat leucocytes) was found in the EtOH extract (50 microg mL(-1)) and was shown by the monoterpenoids alpha-pinene and geraniol (0.2 mM), but not 1,8-cineole, thujone or camphor. Possible estrogenic activity (via induction of beta-galactosidase activity in yeast cells) was found in the essential oil (0.01 mg mL(-1)) and the monoterpenoid geraniol (0.1-2 mM). 1,8-Cineole, alpha- and beta-pinene and thujone did not exhibit estrogenic activity in this analysis. These results demonstrate that S. lavandulaefolia, its essential oil and some chemical constituents have properties relevant to the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and provide further data supporting the value of carrying out clinical studies in patients with Alzheimer's disease using this plant species.
Ssh1p determines the translocation and dislocation capacities of the yeast endoplasmic reticulum.	Sec61p is required both for protein translocation and dislocation across the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). However, the cellular role of the Sec61p homolog Ssh1p has not been clearly defined. We show that deltassh1 mutant cells have strong defects in both SRP-dependent and -independent translocation. Moreover, these cells were also found to be induced for the unfolded protein response and to be defective in dislocation of a misfolded ER protein. In addition, deltassh1 mutant cells rapidly became respiratory deficient. The other defects discussed above were suppressed in the respiratory-deficient state or under conditions where the rate of polypeptide translation was artificially reduced. These data identify Ssh1p as a component of a second, functionally distinct translocon in the yeast ER membrane.
Metabolism of NAD+ in nuclei of Saccharomyces cerevisiae during stimulation of its biosynthesis by nicotinamide.	The activities of nuclear enzymes involved in NAD+ metabolism in Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain 913a-1 and its mutant 110 previously selected as an NAD+ producer were investigated. The presence of extracellular nicotinamide increased the total NAD+ pool in the cells and increased [3H]nicotinic acid incorporation; however, NAD+ concentration in isolated nuclei decreased slightly. The stimulating effect of nicotinamide on intracellular synthesis of NAD+ correlated with increases in ADP-ribosyl transferase, NAD+-pyrophosphorylase, and NAD+ase activities.
The role of PDR13 in tolerance to high copper stress in budding yeast.	PDR13 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae contributes to drug resistance via sequential activation of PDR1 and PDR5. In this study, we found that a PDR13 deletion mutant was hypersensitive to Cu(2+) compared to the wild-type counterpart. The Cu(2+) tolerance mechanism mediated by Pdr13 does not seem to involve Pdr1 or Pdr5, since mutants harboring a deletion of either the PDR1 or PDR5 gene did not show elevated Cu(2+) sensitivity. Instead, we found that the PDR13 null mutant could not express CUP1 or CRS5 metallothionein at wild-type levels when subjected to high Cu(2+) stress. These results suggest that Pdr13 contributes to high Cu(2+) tolerance of S. cerevisiae, at least in part, via a mechanism involving metallothionein expression.
Yeast cys3 and gsh1 mutant cells display overlapping but non-identical symptoms of oxidative stress with regard to subcellular protein localization and CDP-DAG metabolism.	In a screen for temperature-sensitive (37 degrees C) mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae that are defective in the proper localization of the Golgi transmembrane protein Emp47p, we uncovered a constitutive loss-of-function mutation in CYS3/STR1, the gene coding for cystathionine-gamma-lyase. We showed by immunofluorescence, sucrose-gradient analysis and quantitative Western analysis that the mutant mislocalized Emp47p to the vacuole at high temperature, while Golgi structures were apparently normal and biosynthetic routing of the vacuolar carboxypeptidase Y (CPY) and the plasma membrane GPI-anchored protein Gas1p were unaffected. The effect of high temperature on Emp47p localization, as well as the temperature sensitivity of the mutant strain on rich medium, appear to be caused by oxidative stress and are correlated with severe reductions in the intracellular levels of low-molecular-weight thiols. In accordance with this conclusion, cys3-2 mutant cells were more sensitive to the oxidizing agent 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, which also aggravated the mislocalization of Emp47p observed at high temperature. Furthermore, all the phenotypes of the mutant were completely complemented by exogenous supply of the main low-molecular-weight thiol, glutathione (GSH) and, importantly, the thiol beta-mercaptoethanol reversed the temperature sensitivity of the mutant. A comparison of our mutant with a mutant defective in GSH synthesis showed that gsh1Delta cells were similar to wild-type cells under the stress conditions tested, with the exception of one novel oxidative stress-related phenotype that is observed in both cys3-2 and gsh1Delta mutant cells - a defect in CDP-DAG metabolism upon shift to the non-permissive temperature. As most of the stress-related phenotypes of cys3-2 mutant cells are more severe than those seen in gsh1Delta cells, we conclude that cysteine as such is required and sufficient to confer some degree of protection from oxidative stress in yeast cells.
Regulation of Ste7 ubiquitination by Ste11 phosphorylation and the Skp1-Cullin-F-box complex.	Ste7 is a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase that mediates pheromone signaling in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We showed previously that Ste7 is ubiquitinated upon prolonged stimulation by pheromone and that accumulation of ubiquitinated Ste7 results in enhanced transcription and cell division arrest responses (Wang, Y., and Dohlman, H. G. (2002) J. Biol. Chem. 277, 15766-15772). We now report that ubiquitination of Ste7 requires Ste11 kinase and Skp1/Cullin/F-box (SCF) ubiquitin-conjugating activities. Ste7 is not ubiquitinated in Ste11-deficient cells or when the Ste11 phosphorylation sites have been mutated. Ste7 ubiquitination and degradation (but not phosphorylation) is specifically blocked in mutants defective for the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme Cdc34 or the cullin homologue Cdc53. Both are components of the SCF complex that ubiquitinates proteins during the G1-S transition of the cell cycle. Our findings suggest that SCF promotes the ubiquitination and degradation of Ste7, thereby favoring the resumption of cell division cycling after pheromone-induced growth arrest.
Dna2 helicase/nuclease causes replicative fork stalling and double-strand breaks in the ribosomal DNA of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	We have proposed that faulty processing of arrested replication forks leads to increases in recombination and chromosome instability in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and contributes to the shortened lifespan of dna2 mutants. Now we use the ribosomal DNA locus, which is a good model for all stages of DNA replication, to test this hypothesis. We show directly that DNA replication pausing at the ribosomal DNA replication fork barrier (RFB) is accompanied by the occurrence of double-strand breaks near the RFB. Both pausing and breakage are elevated in the early aging, hypomorphic dna2-2 helicase mutant. Deletion of FOB1, encoding the fork barrier protein, suppresses the elevated pausing and DSB formation, and represses initiation at rDNA ARSs. The dna2-2 mutation is synthetically lethal with deltarrm3, encoding another DNA helicase involved in rDNA replication. It does not appear to be the case that the rDNA is the only determinant of genome stability during the yeast lifespan however since strains carrying deletion of all chromosomal rDNA but with all rDNA supplied on a plasmid, have decreased rather than increased lifespan. We conclude that the replication-associated defects that we can measure in the rDNA are symbolic of similar events occurring either stochastically throughout the genome or at other regions where replication forks move slowly or stall, such as telomeres, centromeres, or replication slow zones.
Ubiquitin pathway proteins influence the mechanism of action of the novel immunosuppressive drug FTY720 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	FTY720 is an immunosuppressive drug in clinical development for transplant graft protection in humans. This agent is of particular interest because, unlike currently available regimes, it acts to sequester lymphocytes without causing cytotoxicity or blocking differentiation and growth potential. In an effort to elucidate the mechanism of action of FTY720, and identify its downstream effectors, we have screened genomic libraries and spontaneous mutants of the model system Saccharomyces cerevisiae for resistance to FTY720. We identified several proteins and pathways as being involved in the mechanism of action of FTY720. We show specifically that the two amino acid transporters TAT1 and TAT2, the two ubiquitin proteases UBP5 and UBP11, and the heat shock protein CAJ1 confer growth resistance to FTY720 when overexpressed. Another amino acid transporter, GNP1, and the ubiquitin structural gene UBI4 as well as the ubiquitin ligase RSP5, and its binding protein BUL1 confer growth resistance in a mutated form. Supporting the importance of amino acid transport in the growth resistance phenotype of S. cerevisiae to the immunosuppressive agent FTY720, a prototrophic strain was more resistant to FTY720 than the isogenic auxotroph. To further explore these results, the effects on amino acid uptake and protein degradation were measured in the presence of FTY720. Due to the high conservation of these proteins and pathways between yeast and humans, these results may provide valuable insights into the mechanism of action of FTY720 in lymphocyte sequestration in humans.
Response to acetaldehyde stress in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae involves a strain-dependent regulation of several ALD genes and is mediated by the general stress response pathway.	One of the stress conditions that yeast may encounter is the presence of acetaldehyde. In a previous study we identified that, in response to this stress, several HSP genes are induced that are also involved in the response to other forms of stress. Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDH) play an important role in yeast acetaldehyde metabolism (e.g. when cells are growing in ethanol). In this work we analyse the expression of the genes encoding these enzymes (ALD) and also the corresponding enzymatic activities under several growth conditions. We investigate three kinds of yeast strains: laboratory strains, strains involved in the alcoholic fermentation stage of wine production and flor yeasts (responsible for the biological ageing of sherry wines). The latter are very important to consider because they grow in media containing high ethanol concentrations, and produce important amounts of acetaldehyde. Under several growth conditions, further addition of acetaldehyde or ethanol in flor yeasts induced the expression of some ALD genes and led to an increase in ALDH activity. This result is consistent with their need to obtain energy from ethanol during biological ageing processes. Our data also suggest that post-transcriptional and/or post-translational mechanisms are involved in regulating the activity of these enzymes. Finally, analyses indicate that the Msn2/4p and Hsf1p transcription factors are necessary for HSP26, ALD2/3 and ALD4 gene expression under acetaldehyde stress, while PKA represses the expression of these genes.
Rapamycin treatment results in GATA factor-independent hyperphosphorylation of the proline utilization pathway activator in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Treatment of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells with the immunosuppressive drug rapamycin results in a variety of cellular changes in response to perceived nutrient deprivation. Among other effects, rapamycin treatment results in the nuclear localization of the global nitrogen activators Gln3p and Nil1p/Gat1p, which leads to expression of nitrogen assimilation genes. The proline utilization (Put) pathway genes were shown to be among the genes induced by rapamycin. Having previously shown that the Put pathway activator Put3p is differentially phosphorylated in response to the quality of the nitrogen source, we examined the phosphorylation status of Put3p after rapamycin treatment. Treatment with rapamycin resulted in the hyperphosphorylation of Put3p, which was independent of Gln3p, Nil1p, and Ure2p. The relative contributions of global nitrogen (Gln3p and Nil1p) and pathway-specific (Put3p) activators to rapamycin-induced expression of the target gene PUT1 were also examined. We found that Nil1p and Put3p, but not Gln3p, play major roles in rapamycin-induced PUT1 expression. Our findings show that perceived nitrogen deprivation triggered by rapamycin treatment and steady-state growth in nitrogen-derepressing conditions are associated with hyperphosphorylation of Put3p and increased PUT1 expression. Rapamycin treatment and nitrogen derepression may share some, but not all, regulatory elements, since Gln3p and Nil1p do not participate identically in both processes and are not required for hyperphosphorylation. A complex relationship exists among the global and pathway-specific regulators, depending on the nature and quality of the nitrogen source.
Composition, quality control, and antimicrobial activity of the essential oil of long-time stored dill (Anethum graveolens L.) seeds from Bulgaria.	The essential oil of long-time stored seeds of dill (Anethum graveolens L.) from Bulgaria was analyzed by physicochemical methods, gas chromatography (GC), GC-mass spectrometry (MS) (achiral and chiral phases), and olfactometry, and its antimicrobial activity was tested by using different strains of microorganisms. More than 40 constituents of the essential dill oil, obtained from seeds stored for more than 35 years, could be identified as essential volatiles, responsible for the pleasant fresh (D-limonene) and spicy (D-carvone) odor of a high quality. As aroma impact compounds, D-carvone (50.1%) and D-limonene (44.1%) were found. Antimicrobial testings showed high activity of the essential A. graveolens oil against the mold Aspergillus niger and the yeasts Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Candida albicans.
Human hemoglobin-derived peptides exhibit antimicrobial activity: a class of host defense peptides.	Hemoglobin is a known source of biologically active peptides with various functions. In the present study, we report for the first time the existence of natural processed hemoglobin fragments exhibiting antimicrobial activity in humans. Two antimicrobial hemoglobin-derived peptides were purified from a human placental peptide library by consecutive chromatographic steps tracking the maximum growth inhibitory activity against Escherichia coli BL21. These peptides, consisting of 17 and 36 amino acid residues, were identified as being C-terminal fragments of gamma-hemoglobin and beta-hemoglobin, respectively. The antimicrobial beta-hemoglobin fragment was also purified from lysed erythrocytes, demonstrating that proteolytic degradation of hemoglobin into small bioactive peptides already starts inside erythrocytes. The identified peptides inhibit the growth of Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria and yeasts in micromolar concentrations. Moreover, by LPS-binding, the beta-hemoglobin fragment reduces biological activity of endotoxins. In contrast, even at high concentrations, the identified antimicrobial hemoglobin peptides do not exhibit toxic activity on human primary blood cells. We conclude that antimicrobial hemoglobin-derived peptides could be important effectors of the innate immune response killing microbial invaders.
Borrelidin induces the transcription of amino acid biosynthetic enzymes via a GCN4-dependent pathway.	Global cellular profiling of messenger RNA levels has been used to provide insight into the effects of the angiogenesis inhibitor borrelidin on the eukaryotic model organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The most notable result of treatment with borrelidin is the induction of amino acid biosynthetic enzymes in a time-dependent fashion. We have ascertained that induction of this pathway involves the GCN4 transcription factor. This conclusion was determined by treating a yeast strain lacking this gene and observing the absence of increased gene transcription under Gcn4p control.
Fluconazole toxicity is independent of oxidative stress and apoptotic effector mechanisms in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Fluconazole toxicity was previously shown to require intact mitochondria in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, however, the mechanism of mitochondrial-dependent azole toxicity is unclear. Here we show that fluconazole toxicity is not attenuated by the overexpression of the mitochondrially-acting human antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 nor is it increased by the presence of the oxidating agents in S. cerevisiae. Our data further support the notion that mitochondrial toxicity in the presence of azoles is modulated by the conversion of ergosterol precursors to toxic sterols.
Increased expression of Hsp70 for resistance to deuterium oxide in a yeast mutant cell line.	Labeling with stable isotopes, typically deuterium (D), is powerful tool for studying the functional structure of biomolecules by NMR. Biosynthesis of certain deuterated proteins in microorganisms cultured in deuterium oxide (D(2)O) is an attractive strategy. However, the growth of almost all microorganisms is inhibited at high concentrations of D(2)O. We isolated a mutant of yeast that grows well in D(2)O. The expression of Hsp70 was enhanced in the mutant. The increased expression also endowed the yeast with cold-resistance. The mutant might be useful for biosynthesis of D-labeled biomolecules.
Toxicity of metal ions used in dental alloys: a study in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Metal ions are released from dental alloys into the oral environment, which can cause biological responses over short and extended periods. Since most toxic metal ions are capable of inducing oxidative stress on cells through the mitochondrial respiratory chain, mitochondria may contribute to and be a target of metal toxicity. In this study, we investigated the effect of metal ions on growth of the budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and on the morphology and function of yeast mitochondria. Moreover, we tested whether mitochondrial respiratory activity contributes to metal toxicity. Metal ions affected yeast cell growth. The toxicity of metal ions to yeast cells, ranked in decreasing order are as follows: Hg > Ag > Au > Cu, Ni, Co, Zn. This result mostly correlates with the degree of toxicity of those metal ions to growth of human cells. The MIC90 of Hg, Ag and Au ions in synthetic complete media are 0.325, 5 and 320 microM, respectively. None of the toxic metal ions resulted in loss of mitochondrial respiratory activity. However, respiration-deficient rho0 cells appeared to be resistant to Ag ion, but not to Hg and Au ions. Furthermore, at high concentrations, Ag ion caused morphological changes in mitochondria. These studies indicate that yeast may be used as a model system to screen for toxic effect of metals ions from dental alloys, and that oxidation activity in mitochondria may play a role in acute toxicity of silver ion.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa ExoU, a toxin transported by the type III secretion system, kills Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	ExoU, a protein transported by the type III secretion system of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, is an important cytotoxin, though its mechanism of action is unclear. Here we show that the intracellular expression of ExoU is cytotoxic to Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Furthermore, internal amino- and carboxyl-terminal deletions confirmed that regions of ExoU previously shown to be essential for killing mammalian cells were also required for killing yeast cells. These findings indicate that S. cerevisiae is a useful model organism for the study of ExoU.
Inhibition studies of sulfonamide-containing folate analogs in yeast.	In the folate biosynthetic pathway, sulfa drugs (sulfonamides and sulfones) compete with the natural substrate, para-aminobenzoate (pABA) causing depletion of dihydrofolate (DHF) and subsequent growth inhibition. The sulfa drugs condense with 2-amino-4-hydroxy-6-hydroxymethyl-7,8 dihydropteridine pyrophosphate (DHPPP) forming sulfa-dihydropteroate (sulfa-DHP). Here evidence is presented using yeast that such dihydropteroate (DHP) analogs are inhibitory through competition with DHF. Two folate synthesis mutants, with respective dihydrofolate synthase (DHFS) and dihydropteroate synthase (DHPS) deletions and requiring DHF for growth were exposed to sulfa drugs. The DHFS knockout mutant was inhibited, but the DHPS knockout mutant that was incapable of forming sulfa-DHP was insensitive. Such sulfa-DHP compounds were chemically synthesized and shown to be inhibitory in vivo by competing with DHF, but in vitro assays with double the concentration of the sulfa-DHP to DHF showed no inhibition of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR). Sequence analysis of resistant mutants obtained in the presence of sulfa drugs showed no changes in DHFR, or DHPS, unlike previously found antifolate-resistant mutants. The diamino derivatives, which are precursors of the sulfa-DHP, were found to be DHFR inhibitors. These results suggest that a new class of drugs, based on DHP analogs, could be investigated.
Multiple roles of Tap42 in mediating rapamycin-induced transcriptional changes in yeast.	Tor proteins, targets of the antiinflammatory drug rapamycin, mediate a conserved signaling pathway required for cell growth and proliferation in eukaryotes. By global transcriptional analysis of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we have examined the role of the essential protein Tap42 in transcriptional regulation by Tor. We find that Tap42 inactivation, like rapamycin addition, prolongs activation of stress response genes. In contrast, Tap42 inactivation, as does inactivation of the protein phosphatases Sit4 and Pph21/22, blocks rapamycin induction of nitrogen discrimination pathway genes. Tap42 inactivation neither affects ribosomal protein gene expression nor blocks rapamycin-induced repression of these genes. These results indicate that Tap42 can both inhibit and activate protein phosphatases and provide insight into the complex events underlying TOR regulation of transcription.
Estrogenicity and acute toxicity of selected anilines using a recombinant yeast assay.	Suspected estrogen modulators include industrial organic chemicals (i.e., xenoestrogens), and have been shown to consist of alkylphenols, bisphenols, biphenylols, and some hydroxy-substituted polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. The most prominent structural feature identified to be important for estrogenic activity is a polar group capable of donating hydrogen bonds (i.e., hydroxyl) on an aromatic system. The present study was undertaken to explore the estrogenic activity and acute toxicity of chemicals containing a weaker hydrogen bond donor group on aromatic systems, i.e., the amino substituent. There is a great deal of chemical similarity between aromatic amines (anilines) and aromatic alcohols (phenols). The chemicals chosen for the current study contained an amino-substituted benzene ring with hydrophobic constituents varying in size and shape. Thus, 37 substituted aromatic amines were assayed for estrogenic activity EC50 and acute toxicity LC50 using the Saccharomyces cerevisiae recombinant yeast assay. While the EC50 of 17-beta-estradiol occurs at the 10(-10) range, the aniline with the greatest activity had an EC50 of 10(-6) M. Thus, anilines, in general, are capable only of very weak estrogenic activity in this assay. A comparison of estrogenic potency between the present group of anilines and a set of previously tested analogous phenols indicated that anilines are consistently less estrogenic than phenols. A comparison of hazard indices (EC50/LC50) of these chemicals revealed that, for the vast majority of anilines, the EC50 and LC50 were in the same order of magnitude. More specifically, estrogenic activity of para-substituted alkylanilines increases with alkyl group size up to 5 carbons in length, after which the acute toxicity of the larger alkyl-substituents precluded the ability of the compound to induce the estrogenic response.
Molecular basis for fungal selectivity of novel antimitotic compounds.	Compounds that selectively disrupt fungal mitosis have proven to be effective in controlling agricultural pests, but no specific mitotic inhibitor is available for the treatment of systemic mycoses in mammalian hosts. In an effort to identify novel mitotic inhibitors, we used a cell-based screening strategy that exploited the hypersensitivity of a yeast alpha-tubulin mutant strain to growth inhibition by antimitotic agents. The compounds identified inhibited yeast nuclear division and included one structural class of compounds shown to be fungus specific. MC-305904 and structural analogs inhibited fungal cell mitosis and inhibited the in vitro polymerization of fungal tubulin but did not block mammalian cell microtubule function or mammalian tubulin polymerization. Extensive analysis of yeast mutations that specifically alter sensitivity to MC-305904 structural analogs suggested that compounds in the series bind to a site on fungal beta-tubulin near amino acid 198. Features of the proposed binding site explain the observed fungal tubulin specificity of the series and are consistent with structure-activity relationships among a library of related compounds.
Modes of antifungal action of (2E)-alkenals against Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	A series of aliphatic (2E)-alkenals from C(5) to C(14) were tested for their antifungal activity against Saccharomyces cerevisiae ATCC 7754. (2E)-Undecenal (C(11)) was found to be the most effective with the minimum fungicidal concentration (MFC) of 6.25 microgram/mL, followed by (2E)-decenal (C(10)) with an MFC of 12.5 microgram/mL. The time-kill curve study showed that (2E)-undecenal was fungicidal against S. cerevisiae at any growth stage, and this activity was not influenced by pH values. The (2E)-alkenals inhibited glucose-induced acidification by inhibiting the plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase. The primary antifungal action of medium-chain (C(9)-C(12)) (2E)-alkenals against S. cerevisiae comes from their ability to function as nonionic surface-active agents (surfactants), disrupting the native membrane-associated function nonspecifically. Hence, the antifungal activity of (2E)-alkenals is mediated by biophysical processes, and the maximum activity can be obtained when the balance between the hydrophilic and hydrophobic portions becomes the most appropriate.
IPT1-independent sphingolipid biosynthesis and yeast inhibition by syringomycin E and plant defensin DmAMP1.	Both bacterial cyclic lipodepsipeptide syringomycin E and plant defensin DmAMP1 were shown previously to require expression of the yeast gene IPT1 for fungicidal action against Saccharomyces cerevisiae. IPT1 encodes a sphingolipid biosynthetic pathway glycotransferase that produces the terminal sphingolipid mannosyldiinositolphosphoceramide. However, when grown in half-strength potato dextrose medium, an ipt1 deletion mutant of S. cerevisiae was observed to be sensitive to syringomycin E and DmAMP1 and to produce small amounts of mannosyldiinositolphosphoceramide. These results show that the terminal sphingolipid but not IPT1 expression is required for fungicidal activity, and they suggest an IPT1-independent route for mannosyldiinositolphosphoceramide biosynthesis.
Fps1p channel is the mediator of the major part of glycerol passive diffusion in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: artefacts and re-definitions.	Glycerol has been shown to cross the plasma membrane of Saccharomyces cerevisiae through (1) a H(+)/symport detected in cells grown on non-fermentable carbon sources, (2) the constitutively expressed Fps1p channel and (3) by passive diffusion. The Fps1p channel has been named a facilitator for mediating glycerol low affinity transport of the facilitated diffusion type. We present experimental evidence that this kinetic is an artefact created by glycerol kinase activity. Instead, the channel is shown to mediate the major part of glycerol's passive diffusion. This is not incompatible with Fps1p's major role in vivo, which has been previously shown to be the control of glycerol export under osmotic stress or in reaction to turgor changes. We also verified that FPS1 overexpression caused an increase in H(+)/symport V(max). Furthermore, yfl054c and fps1 mutants were equally affected by exogenously added ethanol, being the correspondent passive diffusion stimulated. For the first time, to our knowledge, a phenotype attributed to the functioning of YFL054c gene is presented. Glycerol passive diffusion is thus apparently channel-mediated. This is discussed according to glycerol's chemical properties, which contradict the widely spread concept of glycerol's liposoluble nature. The discussion considers the multiple roles that the intracellular levels of glycerol and its pathway regulation might play as a central key to metabolism control.
A small molecule suppressor of FK506 that targets the mitochondria and modulates ionic balance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	FK506 inhibits the evolutionarily conserved, Ca(2+)-dependent phosphatase calcineurin, which in yeast is essential for growth during sodium stress. We undertook a chemical genetic modifier screen to identify small molecules that suppress the ability of FK506 to inhibit yeast growth in high NaCl. One of these small molecule suppressors, SFK1 (suppressor of FK506 1), causes a mitochondrially induced death in low salt, concomitant with the release of reactive oxygen species. Biochemically, SFK1 interacts with Por1p, a channel protein in the outer mitochondrial membrane, suggesting that SFK1 interacts with the mitochondria directly. A genome-wide screen of yeast deletion strains for hypersensitivity to SFK1 yielded several strains with impaired mitochondrial function, as well as several with reduced sodium tolerance. Our data link ionic balance to mitochondrial function and suggest a role for calcineurin in mediating this signaling network.
Adaptation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, mediated by Msn2p- and Msn4p-regulated genes: important role of SPI1.	The possible roles of 13 Msn2p- and Msn4p-regulated genes in the adaptation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to the herbicide 2,4-D-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) were examined. Single deletion of genes involved in defense against oxidizing agents (CTT1, GRX1, and GRX2/TTR1) or encoding chaperones of the HSP70 family (SSA1, SSA4, and SSE2) showed a slight effect. A more significant role was observed for the heat shock genes HSP78, HSP26, HSP104, HSP12, and HSP42, most of which encode molecular chaperones. However, the SPI1 gene, encoding a member of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored cell wall protein family, emerged as the major determinant of 2,4-D resistance. SPI1 expression reduced the loss of viability of an unadapted yeast population suddenly exposed to the herbicide, allowing earlier growth resumption. Significantly, yeast adaptation to 2,4-D involves the rapid and transient Msn2p- and Msn4p-mediated activation (fivefold) of SPI1 transcription. SPI1 mRNA levels were reduced to values slightly above those in unstressed cells when the adapted population started duplication in the presence of 2,4-D. Since SPI1 deletion leads to the higher beta-1,3-glucanase sensitivity of 2,4-D-stressed cells, it was hypothesized that adaptation may involve an Spi1p-mediated increase in the diffusional restriction of the liposoluble acid form of the herbicide across the cell envelope. Such a cell response would avoid a futile cycle due to acid reentry into the cell counteracting the active export of the anionic form, presumably through an inducible plasma membrane transporter(s). Consistent with this concept, the concentration of (14)C-labeled 2,4-D in 2,4-D-energized adapted Deltaspi1 mutant cells and the consequent intracellular acidification are higher than in wild-type cells.
Effects of furfural on the respiratory metabolism of Saccharomyces cerevisiae in glucose-limited chemostats.	Effects of furfural on the aerobic metabolism of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae were studied by performing chemostat experiments, and the kinetics of furfural conversion was analyzed by performing dynamic experiments. Furfural, an important inhibitor present in lignocellulosic hydrolysates, was shown to have an inhibitory effect on yeast cells growing respiratively which was much greater than the inhibitory effect previously observed for anaerobically growing yeast cells. The residual furfural concentration in the bioreactor was close to zero at all steady states obtained, and it was found that furfural was exclusively converted to furoic acid during respiratory growth. A metabolic flux analysis showed that furfural affected fluxes involved in energy metabolism. There was a 50% increase in the specific respiratory activity at the highest steady-state furfural conversion rate. Higher furfural conversion rates, obtained during pulse additions of furfural, resulted in respirofermentative metabolism, a decrease in the biomass yield, and formation of furfuryl alcohol in addition to furoic acid. Under anaerobic conditions, reduction of furfural partially replaced glycerol formation as a way to regenerate NAD+. At concentrations above the inlet concentration of furfural, which resulted in complete replacement of glycerol formation by furfuryl alcohol production, washout occurred. Similarly, when the maximum rate of oxidative conversion of furfural to furoic acid was exceeded aerobically, washout occurred. Thus, during both aerobic growth and anaerobic growth, the ability to tolerate furfural appears to be directly coupled to the ability to convert furfural to less inhibitory compounds.
In yeast, the pseudohyphal phenotype induced by isoamyl alcohol results from the operation of the morphogenesis checkpoint.	Isoamyl alcohol (IAA) induces a phenotype that resembles pseudohyphae in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We show here that IAA causes the rapid formation of linear chains of anucleate buds, each of which is accompanied by the formation of a septin ring at its neck. This process requires the activity of Swe1 and Slt2 (Mpk1). Cdc28 is phosphorylated on tyrosine 19 in a Swe1-dependent manner, while Slt2 becomes activated by dual tyrosine/threonine phosphorylation. Tyrosine 19 phosphorylation of Cdc28 is not dependent on Slt2. However, the defective response in the slt2Delta mutant is rescued by an mih1Delta mutation. The IAA response still occurs in a cell containing a dominant non-phosphorylatable form of Cdc28, but no longer occurs in an mih1Delta slt2Delta mutant containing this form of Cdc28. These observations show that IAA induces the Swe1-dependent morphogenesis checkpoint and so the resulting pseudohyphal phenotype arises in an entirely different way from the formation of pseudohyphae induced by nitrogen-limited growth.
1,2,4-Triazolo mercapto and aminonitriles as potent antifungal agents.	A series of 3-mercapto-1,2,4-triazoles mono or disubstituted at 2-, 3- or 4-positions were synthesized and evaluated as antifungal agents. Many of these derivatives exhibit high activity against Candida albicans and Candida tropicalis.
H(2)O(2) generation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae respiratory pet mutants: effect of cytochrome c.	Impaired electron transport chain function has been related to increases in reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. Here we analyzed different pet mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae in order to determine the relative contribution of respiratory chain components in ROS generation and removal. We found that the maintenance of respiration strongly prevented mitochondrial H(2)O(2) release and increased cellular H(2)O(2) removal. Among all respiratory-deficient strains analyzed, cells lacking cytochrome c (cyc3 point mutants) presented the highest level of H(2)O(2) synthesis, indicating that the absence of functional cytochrome c in mitochondria leads to oxidative stress. This finding was supported by the presence of high levels of catalase and peroxidase activity despite the lack of respiration. Furthermore, the addition of exogenous cytochrome c to isolated yeast mitoplasts significantly reduced H(2)O(2) detection in a manner enhanced by cytochrome c reduction and the presence of a functional respiratory chain. Together, our results indicate that the maintenance of electron transport by cytochrome c prevents ROS generation by the respiratory chain.
Mitochondria-mediated nuclear mutator phenotype in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Using Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model organism, we analyzed the consequences of disrupting mitochondrial function on mutagenesis of the nuclear genome. We measured the frequency of canavanine-resistant colonies as a measure of nuclear mutator phenotype. Our data suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction leads to a nuclear mutator phenotype (i) when oxidative phosphorylation is blocked in wild-type yeast at mitochondrial complex III by antimycin A and (ii) in mutant strains lacking the entire mitochondrial genome (rho(0)) or those with deleted mitochondrial DNA (rho(-)). The nuclear mutation frequencies obtained for antimycin A-treated cells as well as for rho(-) and rho(0) cells were approximately 2- to 3-fold higher compared to untreated control and wild-type cells, respectively. Blockage of oxidative phosphorylation by antimycin A treatment led to increased intracellular levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In contrast, inactivation of mitochondrial activity (rho(-) and rho(0)) led to decreased intracellular levels of ROS. We also demonstrate that in rho(0) cells the REV1, REV3 and REV7 gene products, all implicated in error-prone translesion DNA synthesis (TLS), mediate mutagenesis in the nuclear genome. However, TLS was not involved in nuclear DNA mutagenesis caused by inhibition of mitochondrial function by antimycin A. Together, our data suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction is mutagenic and multiple pathways are involved in this nuclear mutator phenotype.
Arabidopsis RecQsim, a plant-specific member of the RecQ helicase family, can suppress the MMS hypersensitivity of the yeast sgs1 mutant.	The Arabidopsis genome contains seven genes that belong to the RecQ family of ATP-dependent DNA helicases. RecQ members in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (SGS1) and man (WRN, BLM and RecQL4) are involved in DNA recombination, repair and genome stability maintenance, but little is known about the function of their plant counterparts. The Arabidopsis thaliana RecQsim gene is remarkably different from the other RecQ-like genes due to an insertion in its helicase domain. We isolated the AtRecQsim orthologues from rice and rape and established the presence of a similar insertion in their helicase domain, which suggests a plant specific function for the insert. The expression pattern of the AtRecQsim gene was compared with the other Arabidopsis RecQ-like members in different tissues and in response to stress. The transcripts of the AtRecQsim gene were found in all plant organs and its accumulation was higher in roots and seedlings, as compared to the other AtRecQ-like members. In contrast to most AtRecQ-like genes, the examined environmental cues did not have a detectable effect on the accumulation of the AtRecQsim transcripts. The budding yeast sgs1 mutant, which is known to be hypersensitive to the DNA-damaging drug MMS, was transformed with the AtRecQsim cDNA. The AtRecQsim gene suppressed the MMS hypersensitivity phenotype of the sgs1 cells. We propose that the Arabidopsis RecQsim gene, despite its unusual structure, exhibits an evolutionary conserved function.
Effect of different starvation conditions on the flocculation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	To study the effect of different starvation conditions on the flocculation of an ale brewing yeast of Saccharomyces cerevisiae NCYC 1195.
Yeast sphingolipid bypass mutants as indicators of antifungal agents selectively targeting sphingolipid synthesis.	Standard methods for evaluating the target specificity of antimicrobial agents often involve the use of microorganisms with altered expression of selected targets and thus either more resistant or more susceptible to target specific inhibitors. In this study we present an alternative approach that utilizes physiological bypass mutants. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae sphingolipid bypass mutant strain AGD is able to grow without making sphingolipids and importantly, tolerates loss-of-function mutations in the otherwise essential genes for both serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT) and inositol phosphorylceramide (IPC) synthase. We found that strain AGD was >1000-fold more resistant than the wild-type strain to selective inhibitors of SPT and IPC synthase. In contrast, strain AGD, which due to abnormal composition of the plasma membrane is sensitive to a variety of environmental stresses, was more susceptible than the wild-type to amphotericin B, voriconazole, and to cycloheximide. We show that in a simple growth assay the AGD strain is an appropriate and useful indicator for inhibitors of IPC synthase, a selective antifungal target.
Two new antifungal saponins from the Tibetan herbal medicine Clematis tangutica.	Bioassay-guided fractionation of the ethanol extract of the aerial parts of Clematis tangutica led to the isolation of two new antifungal triterpene saponins. Their structures were determined to be 3- O-alpha- L-arabinopyranosyl hederagenin 28- O-alpha- L-rhamnopyranosyl ester ( 1) and 3- O-beta- D-glucopyranosyl-(1--> 4)-alpha- L-arabinopyranosyl hederagenin 28- O-alpha- L-rhamnopyranosyl ester ( 2) on the basis of spectral data and chemical evidence. Inhibitory activities of the two saponins against seven fungal strains were evaluated. Compounds 1 and 2 showed evident antifungal activity (MIA approximately 2.5 micrograms/disc) against Saccharomyces cerevisiae, similar to the positive control amphotericin B and ordinary activities (MIA approximately 10 micrograms/disc) against Penicillium avellaneum UC-4376, Candida glabrata, Trichosporon beigelii and Pyricularia oryzae. Compound 2 is a better antifungal agent than compound 1 against most of the fungal strains that were tested.
Mathematical modeling of Saccharomyces cerevisiae inactivation under high-pressure carbon dioxide.	High-pressure carbon dioxide inactivation curves of Saccharomyces cerevisiae at different temperatures were analysed using the modified Gompertz model. Comparable lambda and mu values were obtained under pressure treatment as function of temperature. The phase of disappearance (lambda) and the inactivation rate (mu) of S. cerevisiae were inversely related. Higher mu values were obtained at 50 degrees C than at 40, 30 and 20 degrees C under 10.0 MPa CO2 pressure. Increased pressure and temperature had significant effects on the survival of S. cerevisiae. Arrhenius, linear and square-root models were used to analyse the temperature dependence of the inactivation rate constant. For the Arrhenius model the activation energy (E(mu)) was 56.49 kJ/mol at 10.0 MPa, and 55.70, 53.83 and 52.20 kJ/mol at 7.5, 5.0, and 2.5 MPa, respectively. Results of this study enable the prediction of yeast inactivation exposed to different CO2 pressures and temperatures.
Effect of 17 beta-estradiol on the generation time of old cells of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The duration of unbudded period of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is known to be extended with age from unresolved causes; in this experiment the unbudded period of 20-generation-old cells was extended to be 1.6 times that of 6-generation-old cells. We found that the addition of 17 beta-estradiol into the culture medium reduced the age-related extension of the unbudded period reaching 1.35 times that of the young cells which was unaffected by the hormone. This effect of 17 beta-estradiol was not observed when the old cells were cultured in a glycerol-based medium instead of a glucose-based medium suggesting that the action of 17 beta-estradiol was mediated by facilitation of glycolysis. The administration of 17 beta-estradiol equally elevated the cAMP level of the old cells in either medium up to the level of the young cells but elevated the ATP level of only those in the glucose-based medium. Furthermore, the administration of cAMP shortens the unbudded period of the old cells cultured in the glucose-based medium. Therefore, it was suggested that 17 beta-estradiol causes the shortening of the unbudded period of the old cells by stimulating the energy metabolism through elevation of the cAMP level.
Expression of yeast cytochrome c1 is controlled at the transcriptional level by glucose, oxygen and haem.	The nuclear gene for cytochrome c1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (CYT1) was localized on chromosome XV. Its upstream region was identified by functional complementation. Fusion to the lacZ reporter gene on a CEN plasmid allowed study of the effect of carbon sources and of specific deletion mutations on expression of the gene in yeast transformants. Detailed promoter analysis combined with expression studies in recipient strains defective in regulatory genes identified cis-acting sites and transcription factors involved in the regulated expression of the cytochrome c1 gene. These analyses showed that, in the presence of glucose, transcription of CYT1 is positively controlled by oxygen, presumably through the haem signal, and mediated by the HAP1-encoded transactivator. It is additionally regulated by the HAP2/3/4 complex which mediates gene activation mainly under glucose-free conditions. Basal transcription is, in part, effected by CPF1, a centromere and promoter-binding factor.
Synthesis and glutamate-agonistic activity of (S)-2-amino-3-(2,5-dihydro-5-oxo-3-isoxazolyl)-propanoic acid derivatives.	(S)-2-Amino-3-(2,5-dihydro-5-oxo-3-isoxazolyl)propanoic acid, (3a) and its analogs (3b--h) were prepared and evaluated for glutamate receptor-agonistic and antifungal activities. Several (S)- and (R)-2-amino-3-isoxazolylpropanoic acid derivatives (3a--d) were synthesized starting with (S)- and (R)-N-tert-butoxycarbonyaspartic acid alpha-methyl esters (4, n = 1) by means of Masamune's chain extension reaction followed by isoxazolone formation with hydroxylamine and subsequent deprotection reactions. Furthermore, (S)- and (R)-N-tert-butoxycarbonylglutamic acid alpha-methyl esters (4, n = 2) were converted to (S)- and (R)-2-amino-4-isoxazolylbutyric acid derivatives (3e-h) via the same sequence of reactions.
Heterologous gene expression in continuous cultures of budding yeast.	In a previous paper we have studied the expression of beta-galactosidase from Escherichia coli, driven from the inducible GAL1-10/CYC1 hybrid promoter, in batch cultures of budding Saccharomyces cerevisiae and have described operating conditions for maximal productivity. In this paper we show that the plasmid instability in continuous cultures can be overcome by utilizing appropriate selection markers and a high copy number vector. The maximal level of expression is influenced by the dilution rate. Moreover, enzyme accumulation appears to depend also upon the degree of oxygenation. A possible explanation of these modulations is discussed, taking into account the interactions of the UAS-GAL and TATA-CYC1 elements.
Influence of cinnamaldehyde on UV-induced gene conversion and point mutation in yeast: effect on protein synthesis.	The activity of cinnamaldehyde (CIN), a bioantimutagen in bacterial systems, was tested in the D7 strain of yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Yeast cells were UV-irradiated and post-incubated in liquid growth medium for 2 and 4 h with different concentrations of cinnamaldehyde. During the post-incubation period, DNA-damage-specific functions may be induced. This in turn may affect the genotoxicity and in fact a weak decrease in UV-induced convertant and revertant frequencies was observed after 4 h of post-incubation. The presence of CIN in the growth medium increased the UV-induced gene conversion and reversion. The addition of cycloheximide abolished this effect. To evaluate the CIN effect on protein synthesis, extracts of cells UV-treated and post-incubated for 2 h in the presence of 35S-methionine were performed. SDS-gel electrophoresis demonstrated the inhibitory effect of CIN on a UV-specific protein. This work suggests that CIN might interfere with DNA-damage-inducible systems although it did not exert an antimutagenic activity in our experimental conditions.
Effects of bleomycin on growth kinetics and survival of Saccharomyces cerevisiae: a model of repair pathways.	In order to analyze the roles of some repair genes in the processing of bleomycin-induced DNA damage and, especially, the interrelationships among the involved repair pathways, we investigated the potentially lethal effect of bleomycin on radiosensitive mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae defective in recombination, excision, and RAD6-dependent DNA repair. Using single, double, and triple rad mutants, we analyzed growth kinetics and survival curves as a function of bleomycin concentration. Our results indicate that genes belonging to the three epistasis groups interact in the repair of bleomycin-induced DNA damage to different degrees depending on the concentration of bleomycin. The most important mechanisms involved are recombination and postreplication repair. The initial action of a potentially inducible excision repair gene could provide intermediate substrates for the RAD6- and RAD52-dependent repair processes. Interaction between RAD6 and RAD52 genes was epistatic for low bleomycin concentrations. RAD3 and RAD52 genes act independently in processing DNA damage induced by high concentrations of bleomycin. The synergistic interaction observed at high concentrations in the triple mutant rad2-6 rad6-1 rad52-1 indicates partial independence of the involved repair pathways, with possible common substrates. On the basis of the present results, we propose a heuristic model of bleomycin-induced DNA damage repair.
Comparison of chemically induced chromosome loss in a diploid, triploid, and tetraploid strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Triploid and tetraploid strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were constructed and the spontaneous loss during mitosis of one, two or three copies of chromosome VII was determined. In one strain, a triploid (VM2) in which expression of the recessive alleles can be observed only after loss of two copies of chromosome VII (3N-2), the spontaneous frequency of chromosome loss was lower than in the diploid D61.M. In another strain, a tetraploid (VM4) that also requires the loss of two copies of chromosome VII for observation (4N-2) of the recessive alleles, the spontaneous frequency was slightly higher than in the diploid D61.M. The spontaneous frequency of other genetic events (that is, mutation, recombination or chromosome breakage) were lower by 2-3 orders of magnitude than in the diploid strain D61.M. Induction of chromosome loss and other genetic events by nocodazole, ethyl acetate, hydroxyurea and ethyl methanesulfonate was determined in D61.M, VM2, and VM4, and the results were compared. Nocodazole and ethyl acetate induced chromosome loss in both the triploid and the tetraploid strains at lower concentrations than required in the diploid. These compounds also induced elevated frequencies of other genetic events in both the triploid and the tetraploid strains but not in the diploid. Hydroxyurea induced elevated frequencies of chromosome loss in the diploid and the tetraploid. Frequencies of chromosome loss in the triploid treated with hydroxyurea, although elevated, are based on observation of very few colonies of the correct phenotype. Ethyl methanesulfonate failed to induce chromosome loss in any of the three strains. Hydroxyurea and ethyl methanesulfonate did, however, induce very high frequencies of other genetic events.
Protective effect of two sunscreens against lethal and genotoxic effects of UVB in V79 Chinese hamster cells and Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains XV185-14C and D5.	Effects of p-aminobenzoic acid (PABA) and of 4-[(2-oxo-3-bornylidene)methyl]-phenyl trimethylammonium methylsulfate (OMM), two components used in sunscreen formulations, on the mutagenicity of UVB irradiation are compared in three genetic assay systems. A haploid strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae XV185-14C was used to measure reverse mutations at three loci. The diploid strain D5 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was used to screen for reciprocal mitotic recombination. The induction of forward mutations was measured in Chinese hamster V79 cells. Our results indicate that UVB irradiation induced HGPRT- mutants in V79 cells, reverse mutations in Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain XV185-14C, and mitotic crossing over and other genetic alterations in Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain D5. V79 Chinese hamster lung cells were the most sensitive to UVB irradiation, followed by Saccharomyces cerevisiae haploid strain XV185-14C and the diploid strain D5. PABA and OMM were both capable of protecting all three types of cells from UVB irradiation regarding both lethality and induction of various types of genetic alterations. At higher concentrations (above 10(-5) M), OMM was more effective in its photoprotective effect toward UVB irradiation than PABA.
Antimutagenicity in yeast.	In recent years there has been increasing interest in antimutagenesis, and studies have been done using both prokaryotic and eukaryotic systems. In eukaryotic systems the first studies were performed with different strains of Schizosaccharomyces pombe. In particular, caffeine and L-methionine were investigated. Different strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were employed in studies of a wide variety of compounds, including acridine, saccharin, salts, tumor promoters and co-carcinogens. Strain D7 was widely employed and antimutagenic activity of spermine, chlorophyllin, cobaltous chloride and fermented milk is reported.
Single gene alteration of plasma and mitochondrial membrane function in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Some physiological properties of a multiple-drug-resistant mutant with a permeability barrier to chloramphenicol and its isogenic parental strain were compared. The ATPase specific activity of plasma and mitochondrial membranes isolated from the mutant strain was approximately 20% lower (P less than 0.001, Tables 1 and 2) than that of membranes isolated from the isogenic parental strain. Additional evidence of altered mitochondrial function was: (i) the enhanced growth of the parental strain was eliminted by the [rho-] state (Table 3); (ii) the mutant strain had a greater resistance to petite induction by ethidium bromide (Table 4); (iii) the mutant strain was unable to use a nonfermentable energy source for respiratory adaptation (Table 5). It is proposed that a single gene mutation has resulted in an alteration of some physiological properties of the plasma and mitochondrial membranes.
Studies of energy-linked reactions. Localization of the site of action of trialkyltin in yeast mitochondria.	Ligand-binding studies with labelled triethyltin on yeast mitochondrial membranes showed the presence of high-affinity sites (KD = 0.6 micronM; 1.2 +/- 0.3 nmol/mg of protein) and low-affinity sites (KD less than 45 micronM; 70 +/- 20 nmol/mg of protein). The dissociation constant of the high-affinity site is in good agreement with the concentration of triethyltin required for inhibition of mitochondrial ATPase (adenosine triphosphatase) and oxidative phosphorylation. The high-affinity site is not competed for by oligomycin or venturicidin, indicating that triethyltin reacts at a different site from these inhibitors of oxidative phosphorylation. Fractionation of the mitochondrial membrane shows a specific association of the high-affinity sites with the ATP synthase complex. During purification of ATP synthase (oligomycin-sensitive ATPase) there is a 5-6-fold purification of oligomycin- and triethyltin-sensitive ATPase activity concomitant with a 7-9-fold increase in high-affinity triethyltin-binding sites. The purified yeast oligomycin-sensitive ATPase complex contains approximately six binding sites for triethyltin/mol of enzyme complex. It is concluded that specific triethyltin-binding sites are components of the ATP synthase complex, which accounts for the specific inhibition of ATPase and oxidative phosphorylation by triethyltin.
Effects of ethylene on the metabolism of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Supply of exogenous ethylene to lactate-grown yeast initially accelerated the rate of ethanol production from glucose, but later reduced the rate, with the overall effect being to reduce the total ethanol production. The rate of ethanol production by ethylene-treated yeast was not changed by removal of metabolic carbon dioxide. However, if CO2 was allowed to build up in the absence of applied ethylene, the ethanol production decreased. Ethylene increased the activities of a number of pentose phosphate and glycolytic pathway enzymes. The largest increase in activity was observed for phosphofructokinase (EC 2.7.1.11), regulatory enzyme of the glycolytic pathway. After an initial stimulation, glucose (and also 3-O-methyl glucose) uptake was reduced by ethylene. Ethylene appears to inhibit non-competitively the glucose transport system.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae: an efficient tool and model system for anticancer research]	The major mechanisms of cell function, such as metabolic pathways, DNA repair and cell cycle control have been conserved throughout DNA evolution from yeast to human, despite the former lacks cancer-related features. The S. cerevisiae genome has been entirely sequenced and not only reveals sequence similarity to the human, but a number of proteins also have a conserved function. Owing to its genetic features, yeast has been used as a remarkable model and tool to study important enzymes that are also targets for anticancer drugs, particularly in the field of the pyrimidine salvage pathway. In this review, we describe the recent developments in using yeast for anticancer research, focusing on metabolic pathway analysis, systematic drugs screening with yeast mutants or prospects in gene therapy with yeast enzymes.
Chemosensitization of fluconazole resistance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and pathogenic fungi by a D-octapeptide derivative.	Hyperexpression of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae multidrug ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter Pdr5p was driven by the pdr1-3 mutation in the Pdr1p transcriptional regulator in a strain (AD/PDR5(+)) with deletions of five other ABC-type multidrug efflux pumps. The strain had high-level fluconazole (FLC) resistance (MIC, 600 microg ml(-1)), and plasma membrane fractions showed oligomycin-sensitive ATPase activity up to fivefold higher than that shown by fractions from an isogenic PDR5-null mutant (FLC MIC, 0.94 microg ml(-1)). In vitro inhibition of the Pdr5p ATPase activity and chemosensitization of cells to FLC allowed the systematic screening of a 1.8-million-member designer D-octapeptide combinatorial library for surface-active Pdr5p antagonists with modest toxicity against yeast cells. Library deconvolution identified the 4-methoxy-2,3,6-trimethylbenzensulfonyl-substituted D-octapeptide KN20 as a potent Pdr5p ATPase inhibitor (concentration of drug causing 50% inhibition of enzyme activity [IC(50)], 4 microM) which chemosensitized AD/PDR5(+) to FLC, itraconazole, and ketoconazole. It also inhibited the ATPase activity of other ABC transporters, such as Candida albicans Cdr1p (IC(50), 30 microM) and Cdr2p (IC(50), 2 microM), and chemosensitized clinical isolates of pathogenic Candida species and S. cerevisiae strains that heterologously hyperexpressed either ABC-type multidrug efflux pumps, the C. albicans major facilitator superfamily-type drug transporter Ben(R)p, or the FLC drug target lanosterol 14 alpha-demethylase (Erg11p). Although KN20 also inhibited the S. cerevisiae plasma membrane proton pump Pma1p (IC(50), 1 microM), the peptide concentrations required for chemosensitization made yeast cells permeable to rhodamine 6G. KN20 therefore appears to indirectly chemosensitize cells to FLC by a nonlethal permeabilization of the fungal plasma membrane.
Concanavalin A induced activity change in yeast PM-bound NADH-HCF(III) oxidoreductase.	The activity of plasma membrane bound redox enzyme, NADH-HCF(III) oxidoreductase, in wild and mutant strains of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is modulated by Con A in a dose-dependent manner. The solubilized activity is enhanced at lower concentration and inhibited at higher concentration of Con A. The enzyme in mutant strain is more sensitive to inhibition. The activation of enzyme by Con A is suppressed in the presence of either alpha-methyl-D-mannoside or 2-deoxy-D-glucose, indicating the glycoproteic nature of enzyme as well as the resulting conformational change due to interaction with Con A as the factor for modulated activities. This was supported by recording the decrease in K(m) value of enzyme with respect to substrate NADH in the presence of lower concentration of Con A. The purified enzyme was more sensitive to lectin stimulation and, on the basis of comparative stimulatory effects of Con A and PSA on activity, it is likely that mannosyl moiety in enzyme is involved in binding the lectins to cause enzymic activation.
Genome-wide expression profile of steroid response in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The response of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae to human steroid hormone progesterone was studied by genomic expression profiling. The transcription profile data revealed that steroid response was a global phenomenon wherein a host of genes were affected. For example, 163 genes were upregulated and 40 genes were downregulated, by at least more than twofold. The major categories of upregulated genes included protein destination (15%), metabolism (14%), transport facilitation (12%), cell growth, cell division, and DNA synthesis (8%), and transcription (7%), while metabolism (22%), transcription (11%), intracellular transport (10%), cell growth, cell division, and DNA synthesis (10%), energy (8%), cell rescue, defense, and cell death (6%), and protein synthesis (6%) encoding genes were downregulated. Notwithstanding the fact that yeast cells do not possess commonly occurring steroid response cascade similar to higher eukaryotes, our results demonstrate that a short-term exposure to progesterone results in differential regulation of predominantly stress responsive genes.
Exposure of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to acetaldehyde induces sulfur amino acid metabolism and polyamine transporter genes, which depend on Met4p and Haa1p transcription factors, respectively.	Acetaldehyde is a toxic compound produced by Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells under several growth conditions. The adverse effects of this molecule are important, as significant amounts accumulate inside the cells. By means of global gene expression analyses, we have detected the effects of acetaldehyde addition in the expression of about 400 genes. Repressed genes include many genes involved in cell cycle control, cell polarity, and the mitochondrial protein biosynthesis machinery. Increased expression is displayed in many stress response genes, as well as other families of genes, such as those encoding vitamin B1 biosynthesis machinery and proteins for aryl alcohol metabolism. The induction of genes involved in sulfur metabolism is dependent on Met4p and other well-known factors involved in the transcription of MET genes under nonrepressing conditions of sulfur metabolism. Moreover, the deletion of MET4 leads to increased acetaldehyde sensitivity. TPO genes encoding polyamine transporters are also induced by acetaldehyde; in this case, the regulation is dependent on the Haa1p transcription factor. In this paper, we discuss the connections between acetaldehyde and the processes affected by this compound in yeast cells with reference to the microarray data.
Yeast genome-wide drug-induced haploinsufficiency screen to determine drug mode of action.	Methods to systematically test drugs against all possible proteins in a cell are needed to identify the targets underlying their therapeutic action and unwanted effects. Here, we show that a genome-wide drug-induced haploinsufficiency screen by using yeast can reveal drug mode of action in yeast and can be used to predict drug mode of action in human cells. We demonstrate that dihydromotuporamine C, a compound in preclinical development that inhibits angiogenesis and metastasis by an unknown mechanism, targets sphingolipid metabolism. The systematic, unbiased and genome-wide nature of this technique makes it attractive as a general approach to identify cellular pathways affected by drugs.
Independent regulation of chitin synthase and chitinase activity in Candida albicans and Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Chitin is an essential structural polysaccharide in fungi that is required for cell shape and morphogenesis. One model for wall synthesis at the growing cell surface suggests that the compliance that is necessary for turgor-driven expansion of the cell wall involves a delicate balance of wall synthesis and lysis. Accordingly, de novo chitin synthesis may involve coordinated regulation of members of the CHS chitin synthase and CHT chitinase gene families. To test this hypothesis, the chitin synthase and chitinase activities of cell-free extracts were measured, as well as the chitin content of cell walls isolated from isogenic mutant strains that contained single or multiple knock-outs in members of these two gene families, in both Candida albicans and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. However, deletion of chitinase genes did not markedly affect specific chitin synthase activity, and deletion of single CHS genes had little effect on in vitro specific chitinase activity in either fungus. Chitin synthesis and chitinase production was, however, regulated in C. albicans during yeast-hypha morphogenesis. In C. albicans, the total specific activities of both chitin synthase and chitinase were higher in the hyphal form, which was attributable mainly to the activities of Chs2 and Cht3, respectively. It appeared, therefore, that chitin synthesis and hydrolysis were not coupled, but that both were regulated during yeast-hypha morphogenesis in C. albicans.
Carbohydrate carbon sources induce loss of flocculation of an ale-brewing yeast strain.	To identify the nutrients that can trigger the loss of flocculation under growth conditions in an ale-brewing strain, Saccharomyces cerevisiae NCYC 1195.
Assessment of discriminatory power of three different fingerprinting methods based on killer toxin sensitivity for the differentiation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains.	A panel composed of 44 taxonomically certified strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae of different origin was used to evaluate the discriminatory power of three different fingerprinting methods based on sensitivity towards 24 killer toxins.
Homologous recombination is a highly conserved determinant of the synergistic cytotoxicity between cisplatin and DNA topoisomerase I poisons.	Phase I and II clinical trails are currently investigating the antitumor activity of cisplatin and camptothecins (CPTs; DNA topoisomerase I poisons), based on the dramatic synergistic cytotoxicity of these agents in some preclinical models. However, the mechanistic basis for this synergism is poorly understood. By exploiting the evolutionary conservation of DNA repair pathways from genetically tractable organisms such as budding and fission yeasts to mammalian cells, we demonstrate that the synergism of CPT and cisplatin requires homologous recombination. In yeast and mammalian cell lines defective for RAD52 and XRCC2/3, respectively, the combination of these agents proved antagonistic, while greater than additive activity was evident in isogenic wild-type cells. Homologous recombination appears to mediate a similar interaction of X-rays and CPT, but antagonizes the synergism of cytarabine (Ara-C) with CPT. These findings suggest that homologous recombination comprises an evolutionarily conserved determinant of cellular sensitivity when CPTs are used in combination with other therapeutics.
Substitution of threonine-1351 in the multidrug transporter Cdr1p of Candida albicans results in hypersusceptibility to antifungal agents and threonine-1351 is essential for synergic effects of calcineurin inhibitor FK520.	Functional characterization of a mutant Candida albicans drug resistance protein (Cdr1p) by overexpression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Response of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to a monoterpene: evaluation of antifungal potential by DNA microarray analysis.	Plant-derived essential oils with monoterpenoids have been used as antifungal drugs since ancient times, but the mode of action of these natural hydrocarbons at the molecular level is not understood. In order to understand the mechanisms of toxicity of alpha-terpinene (a cyclic monoterpene), a culture of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was exposed to 0.02% alpha-terpinene for 2 h and transcript profiles were obtained using yeast DNA arrays. These profiles, when compared with transcript profiles of untreated cultures, revealed that the expression of 793 genes was affected. For 435 genes, mRNA levels in treated cells compared with control cells differed by more than two-fold, whereas for 358 genes, it was <0.5-fold. Northern blots were performed for selected genes to verify the microarray results. Functional analysis of the up-regulated genes indicates that, similar to commonly used antifungal drugs, alpha-terpinene exposure affected genes involved in ergosterol biosynthesis and sterol uptake. In addition, transcriptional induction of genes related to lipid metabolism, cell wall structure and function, detoxification and cellular transport was observed in response to terpinene toxicity. Notably, the functions of 192 up-regulated genes are still unknown, but their characterization will probably shed light on the mechanisms of drug resistance and sensitivity. Taken together, this study showed that alpha-terpinene has strong antifungal activities and its modes of action resemble those of presently used antifungal drugs.
Nicotinic acid controls lactate production by K1-LDH: a Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain expressing a bacterial LDH gene.	Industrial applications for lactate, such as the production of chemicals, has led to interest in producing this organic acid by metabolically engineered a yeast such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which is more acid tolerant than lactic acid bacteria. This paper deals with lactate production by S. cerevisiae K1-LDH, in which the Lactobacillus plantarum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) gene is integrated into the genome of the wine yeast strain K1. We show that a vitamin, nicotinic acid (NiA), was the limiting factor for lactate production during fermentation with the K1-LDH strain. Increasing the NiA concentration in batch conditions or in the medium used to feed chemostats affected the lactate yield. Moreover, the addition of pulses of NiA or the exponential addition of NiA made it possible to control the lactate production kinetics throughout the fermentation process. The results point to the role of NiA in the regulation of metabolic pathways, but the physiological mechanisms remain poorly understood.
2-Dodecylcyclobutanone does not induce mutations in the Salmonella mutagenicity test or intrachromosomal recombination in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Treatment of foods, such as red meat and poultry, that contain palmitic acid with ionizing radiation leads to the formation of 2-dodecylcyclobutanone (2-DCB), a compound found only in irradiated foods. In this study, the Salmonella mutagenicity test and the yeast DEL assay were used to evaluate the genotoxic potential of 2-DCB. Salmonella Typhimurium tester strains TA98, TA100, TA1535, and TA1537 were exposed to 0, 0.125, 0.25, 0.5, and 1 mg per well of 2-DCB, with and without exogenous metabolic activation (5% S9 fraction), using the microtiter plate-based Miniscreen version of the test. 2-DCB did not induce mutations in the Salmonella mutagenicity test. When Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain RS112, which contains a nonfunctional duplication of the his3 gene that can be induced to form a functional HIS3+ gene by intrachromosomal recombination, was exposed to 0.63, 1.25, 2.5, or 5.0 mg/ml of 2-DCB, no increase in the rate of intrachromosomal (DEL) recombination was observed. The absence of genotoxicity observed in this study using purified 2-DCB agrees with the lack of genotoxic and teratogenic activity observed in previously conducted multigeneration feeding studies of laboratory animals (rats, mice, guinea pigs, and rabbits) that used radiation-sterilized poultry that contained 2-DCB as a unique radiolytic product.
Sphingolipid C4 hydroxylation influences properties of yeast detergent-insoluble glycolipid-enriched membranes.	Sphingoid base C4 hydroxylation is required for syringomycin E action on the yeast plasma membrane. Detergent-insoluble glycolipid-enriched membranes (DIGs) from a yeast strain lacking C4 hydroxylated sphingoid bases (sur2delta) are composed of linear membrane fragments instead of vesicular structures observed for wild-type DIGs, though they have similar lipid compositions and amounts of DIG marker proteins. Light-scattering bands collected from sur2delta after centrifugation of Triton X-100-treated cell lysates in continuous density gradients have lower buoyant densities than that of the wild-type. The results show that C4 hydroxylation influences the physical and structural properties of DIGs and suggest that syringomycin E interacts with lipid rafts.
Distinct regulatory mechanism of yeast GPX2 encoding phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase by oxidative stress and a calcineurin/Crz1-mediated Ca2+ signaling pathway.	The GPX2 gene encodes a homologue of mammalian phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Previously, we have reported that the oxidative stress-induced expression of GPX2 is strictly regulated by Yap1 and Skn7 transcription factors. Here, we found that the expression of GPX2 is induced by CaCl(2) in a calcineurin (CN)/Crz1-dependent manner, and the CN-dependent response element was specified in the GPX2 promoter. Neither Yap1 nor Skn7 was required for Ca(2+)-dependent induction of GPX2, therefore, distinct regulation for the oxidative stress response and Ca(2+) signal response for GPX2 exists in yeast cells.
Systematic quantification of gene interactions by phenotypic array analysis.	A phenotypic array method, developed for quantifying cell growth, was applied to the haploid and homozygous diploid yeast deletion strain sets. A growth index was developed to screen for non-additive interacting effects between gene deletion and induced perturbations. From a genome screen for hydroxyurea (HU) chemical-genetic interactions, 298 haploid deletion strains were selected for further analysis. The strength of interactions was quantified using a wide range of HU concentrations affecting reference strain growth. The selectivity of interaction was determined by comparison with drugs targeting other cellular processes. Bio-modules were defined as gene clusters with shared strength and selectivity of interaction profiles. The functions and connectivity of modules involved in processes such as DNA repair, protein secretion and metabolic control were inferred from their respective gene composition. The work provides an example of, and a general experimental framework for, quantitative analysis of gene interaction networks that buffer cell growth.
Inorganic cations mediate plant PR5 protein antifungal activity through fungal Mnn1- and Mnn4-regulated cell surface glycans.	Antimicrobial activities of many defense proteins are profoundly altered by inorganic cations, thereby controlling disease pathologies in a number of mammalian systems, such as cystic fibrosis in humans. Protein-based active defense systems in plants also are influenced by cations; however, little is known of how these cation effects are mediated. Cytotoxicity of the pathogenesis-related protein osmotin against the model fungus Saccharomyces cerevisiae was progressively abolished by K+. By the use of S. cerevisiae mannosylation mutants, this effect was shown to require mannosephosphate residues in the cell wall. However, osmotin activity was not suppressed by even high concentrations of Ca2+. Rather, submillimolar levels of Ca2+ specifically facilitated osmotin's activity, as well as its binding to the cell surface. This effect also was dependent on mannosephosphate groups on the cell surface, and appeared to require negative charge on a portion of the osmotin protein. Results suggest that Ca2+ modulates osmotin action by facilitating its binding to the fungal cell surface, but that K+ blocks this interaction by competing for binding to mannosephosphate groups. Therefore, we have identified glycan interaction as a mechanism for antimicrobial protein activity modulation by cations, a pattern that may apply to diverse innate defense responses.
Exploration of essential gene functions via titratable promoter alleles.	Nearly 20% of yeast genes are required for viability, hindering genetic analysis with knockouts. We created promoter-shutoff strains for over two-thirds of all essential yeast genes and subjected them to morphological analysis, size profiling, drug sensitivity screening, and microarray expression profiling. We then used this compendium of data to ask which phenotypic features characterized different functional classes and used these to infer potential functions for uncharacterized genes. We identified genes involved in ribosome biogenesis (HAS1, URB1, and URB2), protein secretion (SEC39), mitochondrial import (MIM1), and tRNA charging (GSN1). In addition, apparent negative feedback transcriptional regulation of both ribosome biogenesis and the proteasome was observed. We furthermore show that these strains are compatible with automated genetic analysis. This study underscores the importance of analyzing mutant phenotypes and provides a resource to complement the yeast knockout collection.
(E)- and (Z)-1,2,4-triazolylchromanone oxime ethers as conformationally constrained antifungals.	A series of 1,2,4-triazolylchromanone oxime ethers were synthesized and tested for in vitro antifungal activity. Many of these derivatives exhibit high activity against Candida albicans, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Aspergillus niger and Microsporum gypseum.
Over-production of dihydrofolate reductase leads to sulfa-dihydropteroate resistance in yeast.	Dihydropteroate synthase (DHPS) can metabolise sulfa drugs into sulfa-dihydropteroate (sulfa-DHP), which inhibits cell growth through competition with dihydrofolate (DHF), possibly indicating dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) as the target of sulfa-DHP. The effect of over-production of DHFR on sulfa-DHP resistance was examined in Saccharomyces cerevisiae using a strain that requires DHF for growth. This strain was transformed with a plasmid which encodes over-production of DHFR in the presence of CuSO4. Over-production led to resistance to sulfa-DHP suggesting that sulfa-DHP targets DHFR. Spontaneous mutants hyper-resistant to sulfa-DHP did not show any changes within DHFR.
Oxidative stress activates FUS1 and RLM1 transcription in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae in an oxidant-dependent Manner.	Mating in haploid Saccharomyces cerevisiae occurs after activation of the pheromone response pathway. Biochemical components of this pathway are involved in other yeast signal transduction networks. To understand more about the coordination between signaling pathways, we used a "chemical genetic" approach, searching for compounds that would activate the pheromone-responsive gene FUS1 and RLM1, a reporter for the cell integrity pathway. We found that catecholamines (l-3,4-hydroxyphenylalanine [l-dopa], dopamine, adrenaline, and noradrenaline) elevate FUS1 and RLM1 transcription. N-Acetyl-cysteine, a powerful antioxidant in yeast, completely reversed this effect, suggesting that FUS1 and RLM1 activation in response to catecholamines is a result of oxidative stress. The oxidant hydrogen peroxide also was found to activate transcription of an RLM1 reporter. Further genetic analysis combined with immunoblotting revealed that Kss1, one of the mating mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), and Mpk1, an MAPK of the cell integrity pathway, participated in l-dopa-induced stimulation of FUS1 and RLM1 transcription. We also report that Mpk1 and Hog1, the high osmolarity MAPK, were phosphorylated upon induction by hydrogen peroxide. Together, our results demonstrate that cells respond to oxidative stress via different signal transduction machinery dependent upon the nature of the oxidant.
The relative roles in vivo of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Pol eta, Pol zeta, Rev1 protein and Pol32 in the bypass and mutation induction of an abasic site, T-T (6-4) photoadduct and T-T cis-syn cyclobutane dimer.	We have investigated the relative roles in vivo of Saccharomyces cerevisiae DNA polymerase eta, DNA polymerase zeta, Rev1 protein, and the DNA polymerase delta subunit, Pol32, in the bypass of an abasic site, T-T (6-4) photoadduct and T-T cis-syn cyclobutane dimer, by transforming strains deleted for RAD30, REV3, REV1, or POL32 with duplex plasmids carrying one of these DNA lesions located within a 28-nucleotide single-stranded region. DNA polymerase eta was found to be involved only rarely in the bypass of the T-T (6-4) photoadduct or the abasic sites in the sequence context used, although, as expected, it was solely responsible for the bypass of the T-T dimer. We argue that DNA polymerase zeta, rather than DNA polymerase delta as previously suggested, is responsible for insertion in bypass events other than those in which polymerase eta performs this function. However, DNA polymerase delta is involved indirectly in mutagenesis, since the strain lacking its Pol32 subunit, known to be deficient in mutagenesis, shows as little bypass of the T-T (6-4) photoadduct or the abasic sites as those deficient in Pol zeta or Rev1. In contrast, bypass of the T-T dimer in the pol32delta strain occurs at the wild-type frequency.
Finding new components of the target of rapamycin (TOR) signaling network through chemical genetics and proteome chips.	The TOR (target of rapamycin) proteins play important roles in nutrient signaling in eukaryotic cells. Rapamycin treatment induces a state reminiscent of the nutrient starvation response, often resulting in growth inhibition. Using a chemical genetic modifier screen, we identified two classes of small molecules, small-molecule inhibitors of rapamycin (SMIRs) and small-molecule enhancers of rapamycin (SMERs), that suppress and augment, respectively, rapamycin's effect in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Probing proteome chips with biotinylated SMIRs revealed putative intracellular target proteins, including Tep1p, a homolog of the mammalian PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10) tumor suppressor, and Ybr077cp (Nir1p), a protein of previously unknown function that we show to be a component of the TOR signaling network. Both SMIR target proteins are associated with PI(3,4)P2, suggesting a mechanism of regulation of the TOR pathway involving phosphatidylinositides. Our results illustrate the combined use of chemical genetics and proteomics in biological discovery and map a path for creating useful therapeutics for treating human diseases involving the TOR pathway, such as diabetes and cancer.
Synthesis of 9-acridinyl sulfur derivatives: sulfides, sulfoxides and sulfones. Comparison of their activity on tumour cells.	The synthesis of several acridine thioethers is described. These compounds were oxidized to give new sulfoxides and sulfones. Among 23 compounds prepared, 19 were tested in vitro against the human cancer cell lines panel of NCI screening. Activity is increased 5-10 times from sulfides to sulfoxides. Among substituted groups in the side chain, sulfur mustard, epoxy sulfide and sulfoxide displayed the most interesting activity.
Comparison of two alternative dominant selectable markers for wine yeast transformation.	Genetic improvement of industrial yeast strains is restricted by the availability of selectable transformation markers. Antibiotic resistance markers have to be avoided for public health reasons, while auxotrophy markers are generally not useful for wine yeast strain transformation because most industrial Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains are prototrophic. For this work, we performed a comparative study of the usefulness of two alternative dominant selectable markers in both episomic and centromeric plasmids. Even though the selection for sulfite resistance conferred by FZF1-4 resulted in a larger number of transformants for a laboratory strain, the p-fluoro-DL-phenylalanine resistance conferred by ARO4-OFP resulted in a more suitable selection marker for all industrial strains tested. Both episomic and centromeric constructions carrying this marker resulted in transformation frequencies close to or above 10(3) transformants per microg of DNA for the three wine yeast strains tested.
Integrating phenotypic and expression profiles to map arsenic-response networks.	Arsenic is a nonmutagenic carcinogen affecting millions of people. The cellular impact of this metalloid in Saccharomyces cerevisiae was determined by profiling global gene expression and sensitivity phenotypes. These data were then mapped to a metabolic network composed of all known biochemical reactions in yeast, as well as the yeast network of 20,985 protein-protein/protein-DNA interactions.
Valproate decreases inositol biosynthesis.	Lithium and valproate (VPA) are used for treating bipolar disorder. The mechanism of mood stabilization has not been elucidated, but the role of inositol has gained substantial support. Lithium inhibition of inositol monophosphatase, an enzyme required for inositol recycling and de novo synthesis, suggested the hypothesis that lithium depletes brain inositol and attenuates phosphoinositide signaling. Valproate also depletes inositol in yeast, Dictyostelium, and rat neurons. This raised the possibility that the effect is the result of myo-inositol-1-phosphate (MIP) synthase inhibition.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae fungemia in a head and neck cancer patient: a case report and review of the literature.	We report the case of a 65-year old male who developed Saccharomyces cerevisiae fungemia after completing a course of concomitant chemotherapy and radiation therapy for head and neck carcinoma. He had grade IV oral mucositis, and received Saccharomyces boulardii (Perenterol) orally as treatment for aseptic diarrhoea just before the onset of fungemia. We discuss the epidemiology and pathology of Saccharomyces cerevisiae in the cancer patient population.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae fungemia in an elderly patient with Clostridium difficile colitis.	Saccharomyces boulardii is widely used as a probiotic compound and is generally thought to be safe. We report one case of fungemia caused by Saccharomyces cerevisiae occurring in an elderly patient treated orally with S. boulardii in association with vancomycin for Clostridium difficile colitis. We do not recommend administering this viable yeast particularly in debilited patient with active colitis.
Surface-active fungicidal D-peptide inhibitors of the plasma membrane proton pump that block azole resistance.	A 1.8-million-member D-octapeptide combinatorial library was constructed in which each member comprised a diversity-containing N-terminal pentapeptide and a C-terminal amidated triarginine motif. The C-terminal motif concentrated the library members at the fungal cell surface. A primary screen for inhibitors of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Candida albicans growth, together with an in vitro secondary screen with the S. cerevisiae plasma membrane ATPase (Pma1p) as a target, identified the antifungal D-octapeptide BM0 (D-NH(2)-RFWWFRRR-CONH(2)). Optimization of BM0 led to the construction of BM2 (D-NH(2)-RRRFWWFRRR-CONH(2)), which had broad-spectrum fungicidal activity against S. cerevisiae, Candida species, and Cryptococcus neoformans; bound strongly to the surfaces of fungal cells; inhibited the physiological activity of Pma1p; and appeared to target Pma1p, with 50% inhibitory concentrations in the range of 0.5 to 2.5 microM. At sub-MICs (<5 microM), BM2 chemosensitized to fluconazole (FLC) S. cerevisiae strains functionally hyperexpressing fungal lanosterol 14alpha-demethylase and resistance-conferring transporters of azole drugs. BM2 chemosensitized to FLC some FLC-resistant clinical isolates of C. albicans and C. dubliniensis and chemosensitized to itraconazole clinical isolates of C. krusei that are intrinsically resistant to FLC. The growth-inhibitory concentrations of BM2 did not cause fungal cell permeabilization, significant hemolysis of red blood cells, or the death of cultured HEp-2 epithelial cells. BM2 represents a novel class of broad-spectrum, surface-active, Pma1p-targeting fungicides which increases the potencies of azole drugs and circumvents azole resistance.
Acetaminophen toxicity and resistance in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Acetaminophen (paracetamol), one of the most widely used analgesics, is toxic under conditions of overdose or in certain disease conditions, but the mechanism of acetaminophen toxicity is still not entirely understood. To obtain fresh insights into acetaminophen toxicity, this phenomenon was investigated in yeast. Acetaminophen was found to be toxic to yeast cells, with erg mutants displaying hypersensitivity. Yeast cells grown in the presence of acetaminophen were found to accumulate intracellular acetaminophen, but no metabolic products of acetaminophen could be detected in these extracts. The toxicity response did not lead to an oxidative stress response, although it did involve Yap1p. The cytochrome P450 enzymes of yeast, Erg5p and Erg11p, did not appear to participate in this process, unlike the mammalian systems. Furthermore, we could not establish a central role for glutathione depletion or the cellular glutathione redox status in acetaminophen toxicity, suggesting differences from mammalian systems in the pathways causing toxicity. Investigations of the resistance mechanisms revealed that deletion of the glutathione-conjugate pumps Ycf1p (a target of Yap1p) and Bpt1p, surprisingly, led to acetaminophen resistance, while overexpression of the multidrug resistance pumps Snq2p and Flr1p (also targets of Yap1p) led to acetaminophen resistance. The Yap1p-dependent resistance to acetaminophen required a functional Pdr1p or Pdr3p protein, but not a functional Yrr1p. In contrast, resistance mediated by Pdr1p/Pdr3p did not require a functional Yap1p, and revealed a distinct hierarchy in the resistance to acetaminophen.
Pkc1 and the upstream elements of the cell integrity pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Rom2 and Mtl1, are required for cellular responses to oxidative stress.	In this study we analyze the participation of the PKC1-MAPK cell integrity pathway in cellular responses to oxidative stress in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Evidence is presented demonstrating that only Pkc1 and the upstream elements of the cell integrity pathway are essential for cell survival upon treatment with two oxidizing agents, diamide and hydrogen peroxide. Mtl1 is characterized for the first time as a cell-wall sensor of oxidative stress. We also show that the actin cytoskeleton is a cellular target for oxidative stress. Both diamide and hydrogen peroxide provoke a marked depolarization of the actin cytoskeleton, being Mtl1, Rom2 and Pkc1 functions all required to restore the correct actin organization. Diamide induces the formation of disulfide bonds in newly secreted cell-wall proteins. This mainly provokes structural changes in the cell outer layer, which activate the PKC1-MAPK pathway and hence the protein kinase Slt2. Our results led us to the conclusion that Pkc1 activity is required to overcome the effects of oxidative stress by: (i) enhancing the machinery required to repair the altered cell wall and (ii) restoring actin cytoskeleton polarity by promoting actin cable formation.
A role for the non-phosphorylated form of yeast Snf1: tolerance to toxic cations and activation of potassium transport.	The Snf1/AMP-activated protein kinases play a key role in stress responses of eukaryotic cells. In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae Snf1 is regulated by glucose depletion, which triggers its phosphorylation at Thr210 and concomitant increase in activity. Activated yeast Snf1 is required for the metabolic changes allowing starvation tolerance and utilization of alternative carbon sources. We now report a function for the non-activated form of Snf1: the regulation of the Trk high-affinity potassium transporter, encoded by the TRK1 and TRK2 genes. A snf1Delta strain is hypersensitive in high-glucose medium to different toxic cations, suggesting a hyperpolarization of the plasma membrane driving increased cation uptake. This phenotype is suppressed by the TRK1 and HAL5 genes in high-copy number consistent with a defect in K(+) uptake mediated by the Trk system. Accordingly, Rb(+) uptake and intracellular K(+) measurements indicate that snf1Delta is unable to fully activate K(+) import. Genetic analysis suggests that the weak kinase activity of the non-phosphorylated form of Snf1 activates Trk in glucose-metabolizing yeast cells. The effect of Snf1 on Trk is probably indirect and could be mediated by the Sip4 transcriptional activator.
The yeast multidrug transporter Qdr3 (Ybr043c): localization and role as a determinant of resistance to quinidine, barban, cisplatin, and bleomycin.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae ORF YBR043c, predicted to code for a transporter of the major facilitator superfamily required for multiple drug resistance, encodes a plasma membrane protein that confers resistance to quinidine and barban, as observed before for its close homologues QDR1 and QDR2. This ORF was, thus, named the QDR3 gene. The increased expression of QDR3, or QDR2, also leads to increased resistance to the anticancer agents cisplatin and bleomycin. However, no evidence for increased QDR3 expression in yeast cells exposed to all these inhibitory compounds was found. Transport assays support the concept that Qdr3 is involved, even if opportunistically, in the active export of quinidine out of yeast cell. A correlation was established between the efficiency of quinidine active export mediated by Qdr3p, Qdr2p or Qdr1p, and the efficacy of the expression of the encoding genes in alleviating the deleterious action of quinidine, as well as of the other compounds (QDR2>QDR3>>>QDR1).
Effects of substrate specificity on initiating the base excision repair of N-methylpurines by variant human 3-methyladenine DNA glycosylases.	The human 3-methyladenine (AAG, ANPG, MPG) DNA glycosylase excises alkylated purines from DNA. In previous studies, we determined the importance of an active site amino acid (asparagine 169) in the recognition of substrates by AAG. In this study, we characterize the consequences of expressing the AAG variants bearing amino acid substitutions at position 169 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that lack endogenous 3-methyladenine DNA glycosylase. Survival, mutation induction, and DNA double strand break formation were determined in response to methyl methanesulfonate. The ability of purified wild-type and AAG variants to remove 3-methyladenine and 7-methylguanine, the two most abundant adducts produced by methyl methanesulfonate, was also determined. The N169D AAG variant displayed a approximately 100-fold lower activity for 3-methyladenine as compared to wild-type and did not detectably remove 7-methylguanine. When expressed in S. cerevisiae, the N169D variant provided better protection against methyl methanesulfonate toxicity than wild-type. Fewer strand breaks in vivo were also seen in the presence of the N169D variant following MMS exposure. In contrast, the N169A and N169S AAG variants displayed approximately 30-fold lower activity for 3-methyladenine and 7-methylguanine. Expression of the N169A and N169S AAG variants in S. cerevisiae during methyl methanesulfonate exposure resulted in greater sensitivity, greater mutation induction following MMS exposure, and more strand breaks in vivo. Strand breaks seen in S. cerevisiae that express wild-type AAG or the N169 variants were resolved to varying extents during recovery. In contrast, strand breaks formed in S. cerevisiae that expressed a catalytically inactive AAG variant were not resolved during the recovery times examined. Taken together, the results provide evidence that 3-methyladenine adducts not repaired by base excision repair cause double strand breaks that are not rapidly resolved. Evidence is also provided that the BER intermediates resulting from excision of 7-methylguanine by wild-type AAG contributes to the mutagenicity and cytotoxicity of alkylating agents.
Role of mitochondria in the pheromone- and amiodarone-induced programmed death of yeast.	Although programmed cell death (PCD) is extensively studied in multicellular organisms, in recent years it has been shown that a unicellular organism, yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, also possesses death program(s). In particular, we have found that a high doses of yeast pheromone is a natural stimulus inducing PCD. Here, we show that the death cascades triggered by pheromone and by a drug amiodarone are very similar. We focused on the role of mitochondria during the pheromone/amiodarone-induced PCD. For the first time, a functional chain of the mitochondria-related events required for a particular case of yeast PCD has been revealed: an enhancement of mitochondrial respiration and of its energy coupling, a strong increase of mitochondrial membrane potential, both events triggered by the rise of cytoplasmic [Ca2+], a burst in generation of reactive oxygen species in center o of the respiratory chain complex III, mitochondrial thread-grain transition, and cytochrome c release from mitochondria. A novel mitochondrial protein required for thread-grain transition is identified.
A genome-wide overexpression screen in yeast for small-molecule target identification.	We describe a multicopy gene suppression screen of drug sensitivity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that facilitates the identification of cellular targets of small molecules. An array of yeast transformants harboring a multicopy yeast genomic library was screened for resistance to growth inhibitors. Comparison of array growth patterns for several such inhibitors allowed the differentiation of general and molecule-specific genetic suppressors. Specific resistance to phenylaminopyrimidine (1), an inhibitor identified from a kinase-directed library, was associated with the overexpression of Pkc1 and a subset of downstream kinases. Components of two other pathways (pheromone response/filamentous growth and Pho85 kinase) that genetically interact with the PKC1 MAPK signaling cascade were also identified. Consistent with the suppression screen, inhibitor 1 bound to Pkc1 in yeast cell lysate and inhibited its activity in vitro. These results demonstrate the utility of this approach for the rapid deconvolution of small-molecule targets.
Pradimicin resistance of yeast is caused by a mutation of the putative N-glycosylation sites of osmosensor protein Sln1.	Pradimicin, a mannose-binding antifungal antibiotic, induces apoptosis-like cell death in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Previously we found that the substitution of the 74th amino acid from glycine to cysteine in Ypd1 yields a mutant resistant to pradimicin. In this study, the involvement of a membrane-spanning osomosensor, Sln1, which is located upstream of Ypd1, was investigated. A mutant, sln1 DeltaNG, that lacks the putative N-glycosylation sites in the extracellular domain became resistant to pradimicin. On the other hand, the null mutants of Ssk1, Pbs2, and Hog1, which are located downstream of the Sln1 cascade, were sensitive to pradimicin as well as the wild-type strain. In conclusion, pradimicin exerts its fungicidal action with the involvement of Sln1, but the downstream branch, Ssk1 and the HOG pathway, is not involved.
The mode of action of the plant antimicrobial peptide MiAMP1 differs from that of its structural homologue, the yeast killer toxin WmKT.	The plant antimicrobial peptide MiAMP1 from Macadamia integrifolia and the yeast killer toxin peptide WmKT from Williopsis mrakii are structural homologues. Comparative studies of yeast mutants were performed to test their sensitivity to these two antimicrobial peptides. No differences in susceptibility to MiAMP1 were detected between wild-type and several WmKT-resistant mutant yeast strains. A yeast mutant MT1, resistant to MiAMP1 but unaffected in its susceptibility to plant defensins and hydrogen peroxide, also did not show enhanced tolerance towards WmKT. It is therefore probable that the Greek key beta-barrel structure shared by MiAMP1 and WmKT provides a robust structural framework ensuring stability for the two proteins but that the specific action of the peptides depends on other motifs.
Yeast Sec proteins interact with polypeptides traversing the endoplasmic reticulum membrane.	We show by photocross-linking that nascent secretory proteins, during their passage through the endoplasmic reticulum membrane of S. cerevisiae, are in physical contact with Sec61p and Sec62p, two genetically identified membrane proteins that are essential for in vivo translocation. Sec61p seems to be in continuous contact, whereas Sec62p is involved only transiently. Translocation comprises both ATP-dependent and -independent phases of interaction with the Sec proteins. The results suggest a direct role of the Sec proteins in translocation.
Gene products that promote mRNA turnover in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	We showed previously that the increased rate of mRNA turnover associated with premature translational termination in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae requires a functional UPF1 gene product. In this study, we show that the UPF1 gene codes for a 109-kDa primary translation product whose function is not essential for growth. The protein contains a potential zinc-dependent nucleic acid-binding domain and a nucleoside triphosphate-binding domain. A 300-amino-acid segment of the UPF1 protein is 36% identical to a segment of the yeast SEN1 protein, which is required for endonucleolytic processing of intron-containing pre-tRNAs. The same region is 32% identical to a segment of Mov-10, a mouse protein of unknown function. Dominant-negative upf1 mutations were isolated following in vitro mutagenesis of a plasmid containing the UPF1 gene. They mapped exclusively at conserved positions within the sequence element common to all three proteins, whereas the recessive upf1-2 mutation maps outside this region. The clustering of dominant-negative mutations suggests the presence of a functional domain in UPF1 that may be shared by all three proteins. We also identified upf mutations in three other genes designated UPF2, UPF3, and UPF4. When alleles of each gene were screened for effects on mRNA accumulation, we found that the recessive mutation upf3-1 causes increased accumulation of mRNA containing a premature stop codon. When mRNA half-lives were measured, we found that excess mRNA accumulation was due to mRNA stabilization. On the basis of these results, we suggest that the products of at least two genes, UPF1 and UPF3, are responsible for the accelerated rate of mRNA decay associated with premature translational termination.
Mediated electrochemical measurement of the inhibitory effects of furfural and acetic acid on Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Candida shehatae.	The toxic effects of furfural and acetic acid on two yeasts, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Candida shehatae, were evaluated using an electrochemical method. Intracellular redox activities were lowered by 40% and 78% for S. cerevisiae and C. shehatae, respectively, by 8 g furfural l(-1), and by 46% and 67%, respectively, by 8 g acetic acid l(-1). The proposed method can accurately measure the effects of inhibitors on cell cultures.
Mms22p protects Saccharomyces cerevisiae from DNA damage induced by topoisomerase II.	The cleavage reaction of topoisomerase II, which creates double-stranded DNA breaks, plays a central role in both the cure and initiation of cancer. Therefore, it is important to understand the cellular processes that repair topoisomerase II-generated DNA damage. Using a genome-wide approach with Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we found that Deltamre11, Deltaxrs2, Deltarad50, Deltarad51, Deltarad52, Deltarad54, Deltarad55, Deltarad57 and Deltamms22 strains were hypersensitive to etoposide, a drug that specifically increases levels of topoisomerase II-mediated DNA breaks. These results confirm that the single-strand invasion pathway of homologous recombination is the major pathway that repairs topoisomerase II-induced DNA damage in yeast and also indicate an important role for Mms22p. Although Deltamms22 strains are sensitive to several DNA-damaging agents, little is known about the function of Mms22p. Deltamms22 cultures accumulate in G2/M, and display an abnormal cell cycle response to topoisomerase II-mediated DNA damage. MMS22 appears to function outside of the single-strand invasion pathway, but levels of etoposide-induced homologous recombination in Deltamms22 cells are lower than wild-type. MMS22 is epistatic with RTT101 and RTT107, genes that encode its protein binding partners. Finally, consistent with a role in DNA processes, Mms22p localizes to discrete nuclear foci, even in the absence of etoposide or its binding partners.
Genetic network interactions among replication, repair and nuclear pore deficiencies in yeast.	The yeast RAD27 gene encodes a functional homolog of the mammalian FEN1 protein, a structure-specific endo/exonuclease which plays an important role in DNA replication and repair. Previous genetic interaction studies, including a synthetic genetic array (SGA) analysis, showed that the survival of rad27Delta cells requires several DNA metabolic processes, in particular those mediated by all members of the Rad52-dependent recombinational repair pathway. Here, we report the results of our SGA analysis of the collection of non-essential yeast genes against the rad27Delta mutation, which resulted in the identification of a novel synthetic lethal interaction conferred by mutations affecting the Nup84 nuclear pore subcomplex (nup133Delta, nup120Delta and nup84Delta). Additional screens showed that all Rad52 group genes are required for the survival of the nup133Delta and nup120Delta mutants, which are defective in nuclear pore distribution and mRNA export, but not of the nup133DeltaN mutant, which is solely defective in pore distribution. This requirement for the DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair pathway is consistent with the observation that, like rad27Delta, the nup133Delta, nup120Delta and nup84Delta mutants are sensitive to methyl methanesulfonate (MMS). Furthermore, nup133Delta cells exhibit an increased number of spontaneous DNA repair foci containing Rad52. Altogether, these data suggest that the pathological interactions between the rad27Delta and specific nupDelta mutations result from the accumulation of unrepaired DNA damages.
Effect of EDTA alone and in combination with polygodial on the growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The antifungal activity of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) against Saccharomyces cerevisiae was significantly affected by various conditions such as inoculum size, pH, and metal ions (Mg(2+), Ca(2+)). EDTA was found to be effective against this yeast at the inoculum size of 10(5) colony forming units (CFU)/mL with the minimum inhibitory concentration of 400 mug/mL and the minimum fungicidal concentration of 6400 mug/mL, but it was not effective at 10(7) CFU/mL up to 6400 mug/mL. The fungicidal activity of EDTA against S. cerevisiae was significantly enhanced in combination with polygodial. Isobolograms, fractional inhibitory concentration, and fractional fungicidal concentration indices were used for evaluating the interaction between combined compounds. This synergistic effect is likely due to polygodial's destructive action on the cellular membrane, which facilitates the transmembrane transport of foreign compounds (EDTA) into yeast cells. Once inside the cells, EDTA forms chelation with divalent metals such as Mg(2+) and Ca(2+), which are required by various essential enzymes.
DNA interstrand cross-link repair in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell cycle: overlapping roles for PSO2 (SNM1) with MutS factors and EXO1 during S phase.	Pso2/Snm1 is a member of the beta-CASP metallo-beta-lactamase family of proteins that include the V(D)J recombination factor Artemis. Saccharomyces cerevisiae pso2 mutants are specifically sensitive to agents that induce DNA interstrand cross-links (ICLs). Here we establish a novel overlapping function for PSO2 with MutS mismatch repair factors and the 5'-3' exonuclease Exo1 in the repair of DNA ICLs, which is confined to S phase. Our data demonstrate a requirement for NER and Pso2, or Exo1 and MutS factors, in the processing of ICLs, and this is required prior to the repair of ICL-induced DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) that form during replication. Using a chromosomally integrated inverted-repeat substrate, we also show that loss of both pso2 and exo1/msh2 reduces spontaneous homologous recombination rates. Therefore, PSO2, EXO1, and MSH2 also appear to have overlapping roles in the processing of some forms of endogenous DNA damage that occur at an irreversibly collapsed replication fork. Significantly, our analysis of ICL repair in cells synchronized for each cell cycle phase has revealed that homologous recombination does not play a major role in the direct repair of ICLs, even in G2, when a suitable template is readily available. Rather, we propose that recombination is primarily involved in the repair of DSBs that arise from the collapse of replication forks at ICLs. These findings have led to considerable clarification of the complex genetic relationship between various ICL repair pathways.
Tunicamycin resistance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: genetic studies.	Tunicamycin is a nucleoside antibiotic complex produced by Streptomyces lysosuperficus which inhibits glycosylation. Several mutants have been isolated in this laboratory that are resistant to tunicamycin, of which the majority are recessive and a few are dominant. The mutations are possibly due to some loss of transport function or alteration in the membrane. These recessive mutations have been mapped to chromosome 1 by the 2 mu mapping method. Studies are underway to map the dominant mutations as well and to group these mutations into its complementation groups and to characterize them biochemically. Both mating types of these mutant strains have been generated in our laboratory.
Adenine deaminase and adenine utilization in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Compared with other purine salvage and nitrogen catabolism enzymatic activities, adenine deaminase (adenine aminohydrolase [AAH]; EC 3.5.4.2) activity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is uniquely regulated. AAH specific activity is not induced by adenine and is reduced sevenfold when cells are cultivated in medium containing proline in place of ammonium as the sole nitrogen source. Exogenous adenine enters metabolic pathways primarily via the function of either AAH or adenine phosphoribosyltransferase (APRT; EC 2.4.2.7). Exogenous adenosine cannot normally be utilized as a purine source. Strains efficiently utilized adenosine or inosine when grown in pH 4.5 medium containing Triton X-100. A recessive mutation permitting utilization of adenosine or inosine in standard media was isolated. In both situations, growth of purine auxotrophs required either AAH or APRT activity. With medium containing either ammonium or proline as a nitrogen source, minimum doubling times of purine auxotrophs deficient in either APRT or AAH were measured. In proline-based medium, AAH and APRT permitted equal utilization of exogenous adenine. In ammonium-based medium, the absence of APRT increased the minimum doubling time by 50%. Similar experiments using sufficient exogenous histidine to feedback inhibit histidine biosynthesis failed to affect the growth rates of adenine auxotrophs blocked in AAH or APRT, indicating that the histidine-biosynthetic pathway does not play a significant role in adenine utilization. The gene that encodes AAH in S. cerevisiae was isolated by complementation using yeast strain XD1-1, which is deficient in AAH, APRT, and purine synthesis. A 1.36-kb EcoRI-SphI fragment was demonstrated to contain the structural gene for AAH by expressing this DNA in Escherichia coli under control of the trp promoter-operator. Northern (RNA) studies using the AAH-, APRT-, and CDC3-coding regions indicated that AAH regulation was not mediated at the level of transcription or mRNA degradation.
Allelism of IMP1 and GAL2 genes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Cloning and characterization of the previously described Saccharomyces cerevisiae IMP1 gene, which was assumed to be a nuclear determinant involved in the nucleomitochondrial control of the utilization of galactose, demonstrate allelism to the GAL2 gene. Galactose metabolism does not necessarily involve the induction of the specific transport system coded by GAL2/IMP1, because a null mutant takes up galactose and grows on it. Data on galactose uptake are presented, and the dependence on ATP for constitutive and inducible galactose transport is discussed. These results can account for the inability of imp1/gal2 mutants to grow on galactose in a respiration-deficient background. Under these conditions, uptake was affected at the functional level but not at the biosynthetic level.
Regulation of gene expression by oxygen in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The oxygen regulation of two broad categories of yeast genes is discussed in this review. The first is made up of genes regulated by heme, and the second is made up of genes whose regulation is heme independent. Heme-regulated genes fall into two classes: heme-activated and heme-repressed genes. Activation is achieved through one of two transcriptional activators, the heme-dependent HAP1 protein or the heme-activated, glucose-repressed HAP2/3/4 complex. Some of the properties and the DNA-binding sites of these activators are discussed. Heme repression is achieved through the action of the ROX1 repressor, the expression of which is transcriptionally activated by heme. Once ROX1 is synthesized, its function is heme independent. Evidence that ROX1 binds to DNA or is part of a DNA-binding complex is described. Factors which modulate the function of these regulatory proteins are discussed, and a schematic of heme activation and repression is presented. The mitochondrial subunits of cytochrome c oxidase are induced by oxygen in a heme-independent fashion. The translation of one, cytochrome c oxidase subunit III, is dependent upon three nucleus-encoded initiation factors. One of these, PET494, is itself translationally regulated by oxygen in a heme-independent fashion. The expression of at least four other mitochondrially encoded cytochrome subunits is dependent upon specific translation factors, raising the potential for translational regulation as a general mechanism. Finally, a number of anaerobic genes that show heme-independent, oxygen-repressed expression have been identified. These fall into two kinetic classes, suggesting that there are at least two different regulatory circuitries.
Differentiating mechanisms of toxicity using global gene expression analysis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Genotoxic stress triggers a variety of biological responses including the transcriptional activation of genes regulating DNA repair, cell survival and cell death. Genomic approaches, which monitor gene expressions across large numbers of genes, can serve as a powerful tool for exploring mechanisms of toxicity. Here, using five different agents, we investigated whether the analysis of genome-wide expression profiles in Saccharomyces cerevisiae could provide insights into mechanisms of genotoxicity versus cytotoxicity. To differentiate the genotoxic stress-associated expression signatures from that of a general cytotoxic stress, we compared gene expression profiles following the treatment with DNA-reactive (cisplatin, MMS, bleomycin) and DNA non-reactive (ethanol and sodium chloride) compounds. Although each of the tested chemicals produced a distinct gene expression profile, we were able to identify a gene expression signature consisting of a relatively small number of biologically relevant genes capable of differentiating genotoxic and cytotoxic stress. The gene set includes such upregulated genes as HUG1, ECM4 and previously uncharacterized gene, YLR297W in the genotoxic and GAP1, CGR1 in the cytotoxic group. Our results indicate the potential of gene expression profile analysis for elucidating mechanism of action of genotoxic agents.
Catalases protect cellular proteins from oxidative modification in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells had higher antioxidant enzyme activities under growth in ethanol than that in glucose as a carbon and energy source. The correlations between catalase activity and protein carbonyl level (r(2)=0.857), between catalase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activities (r(2)=0.924) and between protein carbonyl levels and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity (r(2)=0.988) under growth in ethanol were found. Growing in ethanol the strain deficient in cytosolic and peroxisomal catalases had 7.1-fold higher level of carbonyl proteins than that of wild-type strain. Our data suggest that in vivo catalases may protect glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase against oxidative inactivation.
Low cytotoxicity of ecteinascidin 743 in yeast lacking the major endonucleolytic enzymes of base and nucleotide excision repair pathways.	Ecteinascidin 743 (ET-743) is a promising antitumoral drug for the treatment of soft tissues sarcomas, becoming a good candidate for clinical trials. However, the molecular mechanism of how ET-743 induces cells death is poorly understood. The chemical structure of ET-743 suggests that it can form cytotoxic cross-links with proteins and DNA. Experiments with Escherichia coli and mammalian cells indicate that the nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathway promotes ET-743 cytotoxicity. We therefore analyzed cytotoxicity and tolerance to ET-743 in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, defective for NER and/or base excision repair (BER), either in single mutants or in combination with mutant alleles of genes encoding proteins involved in DNA translesion synthesis (TLS) and homologous recombination (HR). Treatment of haploid and diploid S. cerevisiae strains with ET-743 led to induced mutagenesis, mitotic gene conversion, and crossing-over. The results indicated that yeast strains lacking endonucleases of the NER and BER pathways are especially resistant for ET-743. The mutagenesis data points to a weak mutagenic activity of ET-743 in both WT and strains lacking BER/NER endonuclease, and that a mutant blocked in both BER and TLS totally lacks induced mutagenesis. The diploid strain shows an increase in the frequencies of crossing-over and mitotic recombination. These data lead us to propose a model for ET-743 action in eukaryotic cells, where the presence of BER and NER endonucleases results in cell death. However, ET-743 damage can be tolerated in BER and/or NER mutants by TLS (error-prone) or in combination with HR (error-free).
Utilization of target-specific, hypersensitive strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to determine the mode of action of antifungal compounds.	Target-specific hypersusceptible strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were used to screen antifungal compounds. Two novel Erg7p inhibitors were identified, providing proof of principle of the approach taken. However, observed hypersensitivities to antifungals acting via other targets imply that use of this tool to identify the mode of action requires significant deconvolution.
RGD1, encoding a RhoGAP involved in low-pH survival, is an Msn2p/Msn4p regulated gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The RhoGAP Rgd1p is involved in different signal transduction pathways in Saccharomyces cerevisiae through its regulatory activity upon the Rho3 and Rho4 GTPases. The rgd1Delta mutant, which presents a mortality at the entry into the stationary phase in minimal medium, is sensitive to medium acidification caused by biomass augmentation. We showed that low-pH shock leads to abnormal intracellular acidification of the rgd1Delta mutant. Transcriptional regulation of RGD1 was studied in several stress conditions and we observed an activation of RGD1 transcription at low pH and after heat and oxidative shocks. The transcription level at low pH and after heat shock was demonstrated to depend on the STRE box located in the RGD1 promoter. The general stress-activated transcription factors Msn2p and Msn4p as well as the HOG pathway were shown to mainly act on the basal RGD1 transcriptional level in normal and stress conditions.
Study on the effect of thiamine on the metabolism of yeast by intrinsic fluorescence.	Thiamine in living human bodies exists mainly as diphosphate, which works as a co-enzyme of the sugar metabolism system (active vitamin B1). Thiamine deficiency brings many clinically significant problems, such as dysphoria, quadriplegia and dyspepsia. Intrinsic fluorescence has an advantage over the extrinsic fluorescence of an unperturbed environment during investigation, especially in complex systems such as biological cells and tissues. Cellular fluorescence provides a sensitive index of the functional state of a living cell (1). Different amounts of thiamine were added to culture medium and the fluorescence of tryptophan and NADH from yeast was determined. When the thiamine concentration was greater than 0-0.16 microg/mL, the intensity of tryptophan fluorescence increased linearly, whereas the NADH fluorescence decreased. When the thiamine concentration was above 0.24 microg/mL, the fluorescence of tryptophan and NADH was almost unchanged. We concluded that low thiamine concentration in culture medium had a large effect on the growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and possible reasons are discussed.
Genotoxicity of stannous chloride in yeast and bacteria.	Stannous chloride was found genotoxic in microbial test systems of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, in one strain of Salmonella typhimurium and in the Mutoxitest of Escherichia coli. Five isogenic haploid yeast strains differing only in a particular repair-deficiency had the following ranking in Sn2+ -sensitivity: rad52delta>rad6delta>rad2delta>rad4delta>RAD, indicating a higher relevance of recombinogenic repair mechanisms than nucleotide excision in repair of Sn2+ -induced DNA damage. Sn2+ -treated cells formed aggregates that lead to gross overestimation of toxicity when not undone before diluting and plating. Reliable inactivation assays at exposure doses of 25-75 mM SnCl2 were achieved by de-clumping with either EDTA- or phosphate buffer. Sn2+ -induced reversion of the yeast his1-798, his1-208 and lys1-1 mutant alleles, in diploid and haploid cells, respectively, and putative frameshift mutagenesis (reversion of the hom3-10 allele) was observed. In diploid yeast, SnCl2 induced intra-genic mitotic recombination while inter-genic (reciprocal) recombination was very weak and not significant. Yeast cells of exponentially growing cultures were killed to about the same extend at 0.1% of SnCl2 than respective cells in stationary phase, suggesting a major involvement of physiological parameters of post-diauxic shift oxidative stress resistance in enhanced Sn2+ -tolerance. Superoxide dismutases, but not catalase, protected against SnCl2-induced reactive oxygen species as sod1delta had a three-fold higher sensitivity than the WT while the sod2delta mutant was only slightly more sensitive but conferred significant sensitivity increase in a sod1delta sod2delta double mutant. In the Salmonella reversion assay, SnCl2 did not induce mutations in strains TA97, TA98 or TA100, while a positive response was seen in strain TA102. SnCl2 induced a two-fold increase in mutation in the Mutoxitest strain IC203 (uvrA oxyR), but was less mutagenic in strain IC188 (uvrA). We propose that the mutagenicity of SnCl2 in yeast and bacteria occurs via error-prone repair of DNA damage that is produced by reactive oxygen species.
CDC14 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Cloning, sequence analysis, and transcription during the cell cycle.	We have cloned, mapped and sequenced the complete CDC14 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and characterized its transcription during the cell cycle. CDC14 was found within a 3.5-kilobase pair XhoI-XbaI fragment of chromosome VI. The DNA sequence reveals an open reading frame capable of encoding a 423-amino acid polypeptide. Protein sequence comparisons through the Prosite, GenBank and EMBL databases allowed us to identify a conserved protein tyrosine phosphatase active site in the encoded CDC14 protein beginning at amino acid 153. Disruption demonstrates that CDC14 is an essential gene. The level of the CDC14 transcript appears to be weakly cell cycle-regulated and has a periodicity which lags approximately 15 min behind histone HTB1 mRNA accumulation levels. DNA sequence analysis has identified a region within the CDC14 promoter which bears a striking resemblance (15 out of 21 base pairs identity) to the cell cycle regulation region of the promoter of the histone H2A1-H2B1 (HTA1-HTB1) gene pair. The cell cycle regulation sequence is responsible for the periodic accumulation and hydroxyurea sensitivity of the histone HTA1-HTB1 message. However, unlike histone mRNA, which is repressed upon hydroxyurea arrest, CDC14 mRNA appears to be unaffected. This suggests that CDC14 and histone genes are regulated by different mechanisms during the cell cycle. Furthermore, superhelical density measurements suggest that CDC14 is not involved in nucleosome assembly.
Nondissociation of GAL4 and GAL80 in vivo after galactose induction.	Transcription of galactose-inducible genes in yeast is regulated by interaction between the activator protein GAL4 and the negative regulatory protein GAL80. It has been suggested that GAL80 binds to and represses GAL4 under uninduced conditions and dissociates from GAL4 on induction. However, the possibility that GAL80 remains associated with GAL4 after induction has not been ruled out. Experiments to discriminate between these two models were performed and revealed that GAL80 stays bound after induction.
Hsp104 is required for tolerance to many forms of stress.	Heat-shock proteins (hsps) are induced by many types of stress. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a mutation in the HSP104 gene, a member of the highly conserved hsp100 gene family, reduces the ability of log-phase fermenting cells to withstand high temperatures after mild, conditioning pretreatments. Here, we examine the expression of hsp104 and its importance for survival under many different conditions. Hsp104 is expressed at a higher level in respiring cells than in fermenting cells and is required for the unusually high basal thermotolerance of respiring cells. Its expression in stationary phase cells and spores is crucial for the naturally high thermotolerance of these cell types and for their long-term viability at low temperatures. The protein is of critical importance in tolerance to ethanol and of moderate importance in tolerance to sodium arsenite. Thus, the hsp104 mutation establishes the validity of a long-standing hypothesis in the heat-shock field, namely, that hsps have broadly protective functions. Further, that a single protein is responsible for tolerance to heat, ethanol, arsenite and long-term storage in the cold indicates that the underlying causes of lethality are similar in an extraordinary variety of circumstances. Finally, the protein is of little or no importance in tolerance to copper and cadmium, suggesting that the lethal lesions produced by these agents are fundamentally different from those produced by heat.
In vivo activation by ethanol of plasma membrane ATPase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Ethanol, in concentrations that affect growth and fermentation rates (3 to 10% [vol/vol]), activated in vivo the plasma membrane ATPase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The maximal value for this activated enzyme in cells grown with 6 to 8% (vol/vol) ethanol was three times higher than the basal level (in cells grown in the absence of ethanol). The Km values for ATP, the pH profiles, and the sensitivities to orthovanadate of the activated and the basal plasma membrane ATPases were virtually identical. A near-equivalent activation was also observed when cells grown in the absence of ethanol were incubated for 15 min in the growth medium with ethanol. The activated state was preserved after the extraction from the cells of the membrane fraction, and cycloheximide appeared to prevent this in vivo activation. After ethanol removal, the rapid in vivo reversion of ATPase activation was observed. While inducing the in vivo activation of plasma membrane ATPase, concentrations of ethanol equal to and greater than 3% (vol/vol) also inhibited this enzyme in vitro. The possible role of the in vivo activation of the plasma membrane proton-pumping ATPase in the development of ethanol tolerance by this fermenting yeast was discussed.
Cotransport of phosphate and sodium by yeast.	Phosphate uptake by yeast at pH 7.2 is mediated by two mechanisms, one of which has a Km of 30 micronM and is independent of sodium, and a sodium-dependent mechanism with a Km of 0.6 micronM, both Km values with respect to monovalent phosphate. The sodium-dependent mechanism has two sites with affinity for Na+, with affinity constants of 0.04 and 29 mM. Also lithium enhances phosphate uptake; the affinity constants for lithium are 0.3 and 36 mM. Other alkali ions do not stimulate phosphate uptake at pH 7.2. Ribidium has no effect on the stimulation of phosphate uptake by sodium. Phosphate and arsenate enhance sodium uptake at pH 7.2. The Km of this stimulation with regard to monovalent orthophosphate is about equal to that of the sodium-dependent phosphate uptake. The properties of the cation binding sites of the phosphate uptake mechanism and those of the phosphate-dependent cation transport mechanism have been compared. The existence of a separate sodium-phosphate cotransport system is proposed.
Yeast-binding C-type lectin with opsonic activity from conger eel (Conger myriaster) skin mucus.	A mannose-specific lectin with agglutination activity against a yeast, Saccharomyces serevisiae, was purified from conger eel (Conger myriaster) skin mucus. The lectin, named conCL-s, has a tetrameric structure consisting of two non-covalently associated dimers whose constituent monomers with a molecular mass of about 16,000 Da are linked by a disulphide bond. conCL-s is composed of 173 amino acid residues including a 24-residue signal peptide, and belongs to the C-type lectin family, which is typically characterized by binding to sugar in a Ca2+-dependent manner. Nevertheless, conCL-s showed Ca2+-independent activity in its yeast-binding. The gene expression of the lectin was widely detected in external and internal mucosal tissues, i.e., skin, gills, tongue, buccal cavity wall and esophagus. In these tissues, mRNA of conCL-s was exclusively distributed in club cells, which are one of the major components of the epidermis and mucosal epithelium in Anguilliforme species. conCL-s showed agglutination activity to a bacterium, Escherichia coli. Furthermore, attachment of the lectin to microspheres significantly enhanced their phagocytosis in conger eel macrophages. These findings suggest that conCL-s acts as an opsonin and plays an important role in the innate immunity on the body surface in conger eels.
Sensitive determination of L-lysine with a new amperometric microbial biosensor based on Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast cells.	A new amperometric microbial biosensor based on Saccharomyces cerevisiae NRRL-12632 cells, which had been induced for lysine oxidase enzyme and immobilized in gelatin by a cross-linking agent was developed for the sensitive determination of L-lysine amino acid. To construct the microbial biosensor S. cerevisiae cells were activated and cultured in a suitable culture medium. By using gelatine (8.43 mg cm(-2)) and glutaraldehyde (0.25%), cells obtained in the logarithmic phase of the growth curve at the end of a 14 h period were immobilized and fixed on a pretreated oxygen sensitive Teflon membrane of a dissolved oxygen probe. The assay procedure of the microbial biosensor is based on the determination of the differences of the respiration activity of the cells on the oxygenmeter in the absence and the presence of L-lysine. According to the end point measurement technique used in the experiments it was determined that the microbial biosensor response depended linearly on L-lysine concentrations between 1.0 and 10.0 microM with a 1 min response time. In optimization studies of the microbial biosensor, the most suitable microorganism quantities were found to be 0.97x10(5)CFU cm(-2). In addition phosphate buffer (pH 7.5; 50 mM) and 30 degrees C were obtained as the optimum working conditions. In characterization studies of the microbial biosensor some parameters such as substrate specificity, interference effects of some substances on the microbial biosensor responses, reproducibility of the biosensor and operational and storage stability were investigated.
Specific modulation of apoptosis and Bcl-xL phosphorylation in yeast by distinct mammalian protein kinase C isoforms.	Mammalian protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms have been subject of particular attention because of their ability to modulate apoptotic proteins. However, the roles played by each PKC isoform in apoptosis are still unclear. Here, expression of individual mammalian PKC isoforms in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is used as a new approach to study the role of each isoform in apoptosis. The four isoforms tested, excepting PKC-delta, stimulate S. cerevisiae acetic-acid-induced apoptosis essentially through a mitochondrial ROS-dependent pathway. However, their co-expression with Bcl-xL reveals a PKC-isoform-dependent modulation of Bcl-xL anti-apoptotic activity. A yeast pathway homologue to the mammalian SAPK/JNK is responsible for acetic-acid-induced Bcl-xL phosphorylation that is differently modulated by PKC isoforms. The data obtained suggest conservation of an ancient mechanism of apoptosis regulation in yeast and mammals and offer new insights into mammalian apoptosis modulation by PKC isoforms.
Various cytosine/adenine permease homologues are involved in the toxicity of 5-fluorocytosine in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	5-Fluorocytosine (5-FC), a medically applied antifungal agent (Ancotil), is also active against the model organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 5-FC uptake in S. cerevisiae was considered to be mediated by the FCY2-encoded cytosine/adenine permease. By applying a highly sensitive assay, a low-level but dose-dependent toxicity of 5-FC in fcy2 mutants was detected, whereas cells deficient in the cytosine deaminase (encoded by FCY1), which is essential for intracellular conversion of 5-FC to 5-fluorouracil, display strong dose-independent resistance. Thus, an alternative, Fcy2-independent access pathway for 5-FC exists in S. cerevisiae. A genome-wide search for cytosine permease homologues identified two uncharacterized candidate genes, designated FCY21 and FCY22, both of which exhibit highest similarity to FCY2. Disruption of either FCY21 or FCY22 resulted in strains displaying low-level resistance, indicating the functional involvement of both gene products in 5-FC toxicity. When mutations in FCY21 or FCY22 were combined with the FCY2 disruption, both double mutants displayed stronger resistance when compared to the FCY2 mutant alone. Disruptions in all three permease genes consequently conferred the highest degree of resistance, not only towards 5-FC but also to the toxic adenine analogon 8-azaadenine. As residual 5-FC sensitivity was, however, even detectable in the fcy2 fcy21 fcy22 mutant, we analysed the relevance of other FCY2 homologues, i.e. TPN1, FUR4, DAL4, FUI1 and yOR071c, for 5-FC toxicity. Among these, Tpn1, Fur4 and the one encoded by yOR071c were found to contribute significantly to 5-FC toxicity, thus revealing alternative entry routes for 5-FC via other cytosine/adenine permease homologues.
Isolation of Arabidopsis thaliana cDNAs that confer yeast boric acid tolerance.	An Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA library was introduced into a Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant that lacks ScBOR1 (YNL275W), a boron (B) efflux transporter. Five cDNAs were identified that confer tolerance to high boric acid. The nucleotide sequence analysis identified the clones as a polyadenylate-binding protein, AtPAB2; a ribosomal small subunit protein, AtRPS20B; an RNA-binding protein, AtRBP47c'; and two Myb transcription factors, AtMYB13 and AtMYB68. The expression of these five genes also conferred boric acid tolerance on wild-type yeast. Two yeast genes, ScRPS20 and ScHRB1, that are similar to the isolated clones, were necessary for this boric acid tolerance. The possible roles of these A. thaliana and S. cerevisiae genes in boric acid tolerance are discussed.
Base excision repair of both uracil and oxidatively damaged bases contribute to thymidine deprivation-induced radiosensitization.	Increased cellular sensitivity to ionizing radiation due to thymidine depletion is the basis of radiosensitization with fluoropyrimidine and methotrexate. The mechanism responsible for cytotoxicity has not been fully elucidated but appears to involve both the introduction of uracil into, and its removal from, DNA. The role of base excision repair of uracil and oxidatively damaged bases in creating the increased radiosensitization during thymidine depletion is examined.
Effect of compounds released during pretreatment of wheat straw on microbial growth and enzymatic hydrolysis rates.	In the process of producing ethanol from lignocellulosic materials such as wheat straw, compounds that can act inhibitory to enzymatic hydrolysis and to cellular growth may be generated during the pretreatment. Ethanol production was evaluated on pretreated wheat straw hydrolysate using four different recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains, CPB.CR4, CPB.CB4, F12, and FLX. The fermentation performance of the four S. cerevisiae strains was tested in hydrolysate of wheat straw that has been pretreated at high dry matter content (220 g/L dry matter). The results clearly showed that F12 was the most robust strain, whereas the other three strains were strongly inhibited when the fraction of hydrolysate in the fermentation medium was higher than 60% (v/v). Furthermore, the impact of different lignin derivatives commonly found in the hydrolysate of pretreated wheat straw, was tested on two different enzyme mixtures, a mixture of Celluclast 1.5 L FG and Novozym 188 (3:1) and one crude enzyme preparation produced from Penicillium brasilianum IBT 20888. From all the potential inhibiting compounds that were tested, formic acid had the most severe influence on the hydrolysis rate resulting in a complete inactivation of the two enzyme mixtures.
Dual effects of plant steroidal alkaloids on Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Many plant species accumulate sterols and triterpenes as antimicrobial glycosides. These secondary metabolites (saponins) provide built-in chemical protection against pest and pathogen attack and can also influence induced defense responses. In addition, they have a variety of important pharmacological properties, including anticancer activity. The biological mechanisms underpinning the varied and diverse effects of saponins on microbes, plants, and animals are only poorly understood despite the ecological and pharmaceutical importance of this major class of plant secondary metabolites. Here we have exploited budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) to investigate the effects of saponins on eukaryotic cells. The tomato steroidal glycoalkaloid alpha-tomatine has antifungal activity towards yeast, and this activity is associated with membrane permeabilization. Removal of a single sugar from the tetrasaccharide chain of alpha-tomatine results in a substantial reduction in antimicrobial activity. Surprisingly, the complete loss of sugars leads to enhanced antifungal activity. Experiments with alpha-tomatine and its aglycone tomatidine indicate that the mode of action of tomatidine towards yeast is distinct from that of alpha-tomatine and does not involve membrane permeabilization. Investigation of the effects of tomatidine on yeast by gene expression and sterol analysis indicate that tomatidine inhibits ergosterol biosynthesis. Tomatidine-treated cells accumulate zymosterol rather than ergosterol, which is consistent with inhibition of the sterol C(24) methyltransferase Erg6p. However, erg6 and erg3 mutants (but not erg2 mutants) have enhanced resistance to tomatidine, suggesting a complex interaction of erg mutations, sterol content, and tomatidine resistance.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae ste20 mutant showing resistance to glucose-induced cell death.	Glucose is one of the most important nutrients for yeast growth, which induces cell death of S. cerevisiae in the absence of other nutrients to support growth. In the present study, we reported that the S. cerevisiae ste20 mutant was resistant to glucose-induced cell death. Cells of ste20 mutant that were treated with glucose maintained intact membrane and nuclei. Ste20 kinase phosphorylates histone H2B at serine 10 (S10) during hydrogen peroxide (H202)-induced cell death. Therefore, glucose-induced cell death (GICD) may be regulated via a similar pathway of H2O2-induced apoptosis.
The genome-wide screening of yeast deletion mutants to identify the genes required for tolerance to ethanol and other alcohols.	A set of homozygous diploid deletion mutants of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae was screened for the genes required for tolerance to aliphatic alcohols. The screen identified 137, 122 and 48 deletion mutants sensitive to ethanol, 1-propanol and 1-pentanol, respectively. A number of the genes required for ethanol tolerance were those also required for tolerance to other alcohols. Numerous mutants with defective genes encoding for vacuolar H+ -ATPase (V-ATPase) were cosensitive to these alcohols. A global screening approach of yeast deletion library mutants was useful in elucidating the mechanisms of alcohol tolerance based on different lipophilicities.
Identification of mouse sphingomyelin synthase 1 as a suppressor of Bax-mediated cell death in yeast.	We have identified mouse sphingomyelin synthase 1 as a novel suppressor of the growth inhibitory effect of heterologously expressed Bax. Yeast cells expressing sphingomyelin synthase 1 were also found to show an increased resistance to a variety of cytotoxic stimuli including hydrogen peroxide, osmotic stress and elevated temperature. Sphingomyelin synthase 1 functions by catalyzing the conversion of ceramide and phosphatidylcholine to sphingomyelin and diacylglycerol. Ceramide is an antiproliferative and proapoptotic sphingolipid whose level increases in response to a variety of stresses. Consistent with its biochemical function, yeast cells expressing sphingomyelin synthase 1 have an enhanced ability to grow in media containing the cell-permeable C2-ceramide analog as well as the ceramide precursor phytosphingosine. We also show that overexpression of AUR1, a potential yeast functional homolog of sphingomyelin synthase, also protects cells from osmotic stress. Taken together, these results suggest that sphingomyelin synthase 1 likely prevents cell death by counteracting stress-mediated accumulation of endogenous sphingolipids.
Sulfur and adenine metabolisms are linked, and both modulate sulfite resistance in wine yeast.	Sulfite treatment is the most common way to prevent grape must spoilage in winemaking because the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is particularly resistant to this chemical. In this paper we report that sulfite resistance depends on sulfur and adenine metabolism. The amount of adenine and methionine in a chemically defined growth medium modulates sulfite resistance of wine yeasts. Mutations in the adenine biosynthetic pathway or the presence of adenine in a synthetic minimal culture medium increase sulfite resistance. The presence of methionine has the opposite effect, inducing a higher sensitivity to SO(2). The concentration of methionine, adenine, and sulfite in a synthetic grape must influences the progress of fermentation and at the transcriptional level the expression of genes involved in sulfur (MET16), adenine (ADE4), and acetaldehyde (ALD6) metabolism. Sulfite alters the pattern of expression of all these genes. This fact indicates that the response to this stress is complex and involves several metabolic pathways.
Quantitative and dynamic analyses of G protein-coupled receptor signaling in yeast using Fus1, enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP), and His3 fusion protein.	The mechanism of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling in yeasts is similar to that in mammalian cells. Therefore, yeasts can be used in GPCR assays, and several ligand detection systems using a pheromone signaling pathway in yeasts have been developed by employing yeasts with disrupted chromosomal genes that code for proteins producing specific effects. In this study, the construction of yeast strains that can detect ligand binding mediated by interactions between the G protein and GPCR using either fluorescence or auxotrophic selectivity is demonstrated. The strain was constructed by integrating the fusion gene of pheromone-responsive protein (FUS1), enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP), and auxotrophic marker protein (HIS3) into the FUS1 locus. Moreover, the influence of gene disruptions on the yeast signal transduction cascade is closely investigated with respect to both quantitative and dynamic aspects to further develop a high-throughput screening system for the GPCR assay using yeasts. Yeast strains with a disrupted SST2 gene, which is a member of the RGS (regulator of G protein signaling) family, and a disrupted FAR1 gene, which mediates cell cycle arrest in response to a pheromone, were monitored by measuring their fluorescence and growth rate. This method will be applicable to other comprehensive GPCR ligand screening methods.
The effect of citric acid and pH on growth and metabolism of anaerobic Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Zygosaccharomyces bailii cultures.	The effects of citric acid at pH values of 3.0, 4.0, and 4.5 on growth and metabolism of anaerobic Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Zygosaccharomyces bailii cultures were investigated. S. cerevisiae and Z. bailii exhibited similar tolerances to citric acid, as determined by growth measurements, at all three pH values investigated. The citric-acid-induced growth inhibition of both yeast species increased with increasing pH values, indicating that the antimicrobial mechanism of citric acid differs from that of classical weak-acid preservatives. In S. cerevisiae, citric acid shifted the primary energy metabolism towards lower ethanol production and higher glycerol production, thus resulting in lower ATP production. These metabolic changes in S. cerevisiae were pH-dependent; i.e. the higher the pH, the lower the ATP production, and they may explain why growth of S. cerevisiae is more inhibited by citric acid at higher pH values. In Z. bailii, citric acid also caused an increased glycerol production, although to a lesser extent than in S. cerevisiae, but it caused virtually no changes in ethanol and ATP production.
Chemical genomic profiling for identifying intracellular targets of toxicants producing Parkinson's disease.	The yeast deletion collection includes approximately 4700 strains deleted for both copies of every nonessential gene. This collection is a powerful resource for identifying the cellular pathways that functionally interact with drugs. In the present study, the complete pool of approximately 4700 barcoded homozygous deletion strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were surveyed to identify genes/pathways interacting with 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) and N,N-dimethyl-4-4-bipiridinium (paraquat), neurotoxicants that can produce Parkinson's disease. Each yeast mutant is molecularly "barcoded" the collections can be grown competitively and ranked for sensitivity by microarray hybridization. Analysis data from these screens allowed us to determine that the multivesicular body pathway is an important element of toxicity induced by both MPP(+) and paraquat. When yeast genes that when deleted showed sensitivity to MPP(+) and paraquat toxicity were analyzed for their homology to human genes, 80% were found to have highly conserved human homologs (with e < 10(-8)). Future work will address if these human genes may also functionally interact with MPP(+) and paraquat toxicity.
Characterization of squalene epoxidase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae by applying terbinafine-sensitive variants.	Squalene epoxidase (SE) is the target of terbinafine, which specifically inhibits the fungal enzyme in a noncompetitive manner. On the basis of functional homologies to p-hydroxybenzoate hydroxylase (PHBH) from Pseudomonas fluorescens, the Erg1 protein contains two flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) domains and one nucleotide binding (NB) site. By in vitro mutagenesis of the ERG1 gene, which codes for the Saccharomyces cerevisiae SE, we isolated erg1 alleles that conferred increased terbinafine sensitivity or that showed a lethal phenotype when they were expressed in erg1-knockout strain KLN1. All but one of the amino acid substitutions affected conserved FAD/nucleotide binding sites. The G(25)S, D(335)X (W, F, P), and G(210)A substitutions in the FADI, FADII, and NB sites, respectively, rendered the SE variants nonfunctional. The G(30)S and L(37)P variants exhibited decreased enzymatic activity, accompanied by a sevenfold increase in erg1 mRNA levels and an altered sterol composition, and rendered KLN1 more sensitive not only to allylamines (10 to 25 times) but also to other ergosterol biosynthesis inhibitors. The R(269)G variant exhibited moderately reduced SE activity and a 5- to 10-fold increase in allylamine sensitivity but no cross-sensitivity to the other ergosterol biosynthesis inhibitors. To further elucidate the roles of specific amino acids in SE function and inhibitor interaction, a homology model of Erg1p was built on the basis of the crystal structure of PHBH. All experimental data obtained with the sensitive Erg1 variants support this model. In addition, the amino acids responsible for terbinafine resistance, although they are distributed along the sequence of Erg1p, cluster on the surface of the Erg1p model, giving rise to a putative binding site for allylamines.
FK 506-binding protein proline rotamase is a target for the immunosuppressive agent FK 506 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	FK 506 and cyclosporin A are potent immunosuppressive compounds that inhibit T-cell activation by interfering with signal transduction. In vitro, FK 506 binds and inhibits the activity of FK 506-binding protein (FKBP), a peptidylprolyl rotamase (cis-trans isomerase). Cyclosporin A acts similarly on a different proline rotamase, cyclophilin. Experiments described here demonstrate genetically that FKBP is a target for FK 506 in vivo. We have isolated the gene encoding the FKBP proline rotamase (FPR1) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The encoded yeast protein is highly homologous with bovine and human FKBP and shares no homology with cyclophilin. Disruption of FPR1 and CPR1 (encoding cyclophilin) individually or in combination is not lethal; thus, either enzymatic proline rotamerization is not essential for life or an unknown proline rotamase can substitute for the missing enzymes. Overexpression or disruption of FPR1 confers resistance to growth inhibition by FK 506, suggesting that FKBP is a target for FK 506 in yeast. However, FKBP is only one of at least two targets because strains lacking FKBP are only partially resistant to FK 506.
Fluidization of membrane lipids enhances the tolerance of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to freezing and salt stress.	Unsaturated fatty acids play an essential role in the biophysical characteristics of cell membranes and determine the proper function of membrane-attached proteins. Thus, the ability of cells to alter the degree of unsaturation in their membranes is an important factor in cellular acclimatization to environmental conditions. Many eukaryotic organisms can synthesize dienoic fatty acids, but Saccharomyces cerevisiae can introduce only a single double bond at the Delta(9) position. We expressed two sunflower (Helianthus annuus) oleate Delta(12) desaturases encoded by FAD2-1 and FAD2-3 in yeast cells of the wild-type W303-1A strain (trp1) and analyzed their effects on growth and stress tolerance. Production of the heterologous desaturases increased the content of dienoic fatty acids, especially 18:2Delta(9,12), the unsaturation index, and the fluidity of the yeast membrane. The total fatty acid content remained constant, and the level of monounsaturated fatty acids decreased. Growth at 15 degrees C was reduced in the FAD2 strains, probably due to tryptophan auxotrophy, since the trp1 (TRP1) transformants that produced the sunflower desaturases grew as well as the control strain did. Our results suggest that changes in the fluidity of the lipid bilayer affect tryptophan uptake and/or the correct targeting of tryptophan transporters. The expression of the sunflower desaturases, in either Trp(+) or Trp(-) strains, increased NaCl tolerance. Production of dienoic fatty acids increased the tolerance to freezing of wild-type cells preincubated at 30 degrees C or 15 degrees C. Thus, membrane fluidity is an essential determinant of stress resistance in S. cerevisiae, and engineering of membrane lipids has the potential to be a useful tool of increasing the tolerance to freezing in industrial strains.
Anethole, a potential antimicrobial synergist, converts a fungistatic dodecanol to a fungicidal agent.	Anethole shows synergistic effects on the antifungal activities of phytochemicals including polygodial and (2E)-undecenal against Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Candida albicans. It was found that a fungistatic dodecanol combined with a sublethal amount of anethole showed a fungicidal activity against S. cerevisiae. The MIC of dodecanol quickly reduced cell viability, but the cell viability recovered shortly after and then finally became no longer different from the control, indicating that the effect of dodecanol on this yeast was classified as sublethal damage. On the other hand, anethole completely restricted the recovery of cell viability. Therefore the expression of the synergistic effect was probably due to a blockade of the recovery process from dodecanol-induced stress.
Characteristics affecting expression and solubilization of yeast membrane proteins.	Biochemical and structural analysis of membrane proteins often critically depends on the ability to overexpress and solubilize them. To identify properties of eukaryotic membrane proteins that may be predictive of successful overexpression, we analyzed expression levels of the genomic complement of over 1000 predicted membrane proteins in a recently completed Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein expression library. We detected statistically significant positive and negative correlations between high membrane protein expression and protein properties such as size, overall hydrophobicity, number of transmembrane helices, and amino acid composition of transmembrane segments. Although expression levels of membrane and soluble proteins exhibited similar negative correlations with overall hydrophobicity, high-level membrane protein expression was positively correlated with the hydrophobicity of predicted transmembrane segments. To further characterize yeast membrane proteins as potential targets for structure determination, we tested the solubility of 122 of the highest expressed yeast membrane proteins in six commonly used detergents. Almost all the proteins tested could be solubilized using a small number of detergents. Solubility in some detergents depended on protein size, number of transmembrane segments, and hydrophobicity of predicted transmembrane segments. These results suggest that bioinformatic approaches may be capable of identifying membrane proteins that are most amenable to overexpression and detergent solubilization for structural and biochemical analyses. Bioinformatic approaches could also be used in the redesign of proteins that are not intrinsically well-adapted to such studies.
Ring test assessment of the mKir2.1 growth based assay in Saccharomyces cerevisiae using parametric models and model-free fits.	Inward rectifying K+ (Kir) channels are a subfamily of the potassium channel superfamily. They mediate potassium influx into the cells, a process responding to the polarization state, a variety of intracellular messengers and specific auxiliary proteins, thereby they are involved in important physiological processes such as the pacemaker activity in the heart, insulin release, and potassium uptake in glial cells. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae mKir2.1 in vitro assay was subjected to a ring test assessment. Compound-associated mKir2.1 modulating effects were detected by growth determination of functionally complemented S. cerevisiae cells in a 96-well format within 15 h. Dose-response diagrams and EC50 value calculations were determined by parametric model and model-free fits using cubic spline interpolation. These characteristics were evaluated by statistical methods to determine reproducibility among working groups. Nonparametric bootstrap simulations of the variability of the data revealed that EC50 values of the mKir2.1 indicator strain were well-matched (81-92 microM), enabling unambiguous quantitative statements about inhibitory effects and no significant influence of the different laboratory conditions. Limitations of the assay include compounds/samples that are either insoluble under the conditions of the test or strongly cytotoxic to yeast. Thus, the described test is a sensitive and reliable tool that can be used in different laboratories and is applicable in drug discovery and development as simple and reliable prescreening procedure.
Cisplatin upregulates Saccharomyces cerevisiae genes involved in iron homeostasis through activation of the iron insufficiency-responsive transcription factor Aft1.	The response of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to cisplatin was investigated by examining variations in gene expression using cDNA microarrays and confirming the results by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The mRNA levels of 14 proteins involved in iron homeostasis were shown to be increased by cisplatin. Interestingly, the expression of all 14 genes is known to be regulated by Aft1, a transcription factor activated in response to iron insufficiency. The promoter of one of these genes, FET3, has been relatively well studied, so we performed a reporter assay using the FET3 promoter and showed that an Aft1 binding site in the promoter region is indispensable for induction of transcription by cisplatin. The active domain of Aft1 necessary for activation of the FET3 promoter by cisplatin is identical to the one required for activation by bathophenanthroline sulfonate, an inhibitor of cellular iron uptake. Furthermore, we found that cisplatin inhibits the uptake of (55)Fe(II) into yeast cells. These findings suggest that cisplatin activates Aft1 through the inhibition of iron uptake into the cells, after which the expression of Aft1 target genes involved in iron uptake might be induced.
Ribosome depurination is not sufficient for ricin-mediated cell death in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The plant toxin ricin is one of the most potent and lethal substances known. Ricin inhibits protein synthesis by removing a specific adenine from the highly conserved alpha-sarcin/ricin loop in the large rRNA. Very little is known about how ricin interacts with ribosomes and the molecular mechanism by which it kills cells. To gain insight to the mechanism of ricin-induced cell death, we set up yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) as a simple and genetically tractable system to isolate mutants defective in cytotoxicity. Ribosomes were depurinated in yeast cells expressing the precursor form of the A chain of ricin (pre-RTA), and these cells displayed apoptotic markers such as nuclear fragmentation, chromatin condensation, and accumulation of reactive oxygen species. We conducted a large-scale mutagenesis of pre-RTA and isolated a panel of nontoxic RTA mutants based on their inability to kill yeast cells. Several nontoxic RTA mutants depurinated ribosomes and inhibited translation to the same extent as wild-type RTA in vivo. The mutant proteins isolated from yeast depurinated ribosomes in vitro, indicating that they were catalytically active. However, cells expressing these mutants did not display hallmarks of apoptosis. These results provide the first evidence that the ability to depurinate ribosomes and inhibit translation does not always correlate with ricin-mediated cell death, indicating that ribosome depurination and translation inhibition do not account entirely for the cytotoxicity of ricin.
Growth kinetics and Pho84 phosphate transporter activity of Saccharomyces cerevisiae under phosphate-limited conditions.	The effect of phosphate (P ( i )) concentration on the growth behavior of Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain CEN.PK113-5D in phosphate-limited batch and chemostat cultures was studied. The range of dilution rates used in the present study was 0.08-0.45 h(-1). The batch growth of yeast cells followed Monod relationship, but growth of the cells in phosphate-limited chemostat showed change in growth kinetics with increasing dilution rates. The difference in growth kinetics of the yeast cells in phosphate-limited chemostat for dilution rates below and above approximately 0.2 h(-1) has been discussed in terms of the batch growth kinetic data and the change in the metabolic activity of the yeast cells. Immunological detection of a C-terminally myc epitope-tagged Pho84 fusion protein indicated derepressive expression of the Pho84 high-affinity P ( i ) transporter in the entire range of dilution rates employed in this study. Phosphate transport activity mediated by Pho84 transporter was highest at very low dilution rates, i.e. 0.08-0.1 h(-1), corresponding to conditions in which the amount of synthesized Pho84 was at its maximum.
High Pdr12 levels in spoilage yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) correlate directly with sorbic acid levels in the culture medium but are not sufficient to provide cells with acquired resistance to the food preservative.	Sorbic acid is a commonly used food preservative against yeast and fungal food spoilage. Understanding its effect on the molecular physiology of yeast cells will allow the food industry to develop knowledge-based strategies to make more optimal use of its preservative action. Here we show that the yeast membrane protein Pdr12, previously shown to be prominently involved in sorbic acid resistance development in laboratory strains, was strongly induced by the presence of sorbic acid in the culture medium in Saccharomyces strains isolated from spoiled foods. Induction of Pdr12 expression was seen both under laboratory conditions and upon growth in a commercial soft drink. Induction was rapid and maintained for the duration of the stress. No Pdr12-like protein induction was seen in Zygosaccharomyces bailii or Zygosaccharomyces lentus, two well-known beverages spoilage organisms. Finally, unexpectedly, our studies showed for the first time that pre-inducing Pdr12p to maximal levels by subjecting cells to a mild sorbic acid stress did not lead to cells with an acquired resistance. Neither more rapid growth in the presence of the acid nor growth at higher sorbic acid concentrations at a given environmental pH was observed. Thus we have shown that while important in resistance development against sorbic acid, by itself induction of the pump is not sufficient to acquire resistance to the preservative.
Inhibitory effect of umbelliferone aminoalkyl derivatives on oxidosqualene cyclases from S. cerevisiae, T. cruzi, P. carinii, H. sapiens, and A. thaliana: a structure-activity study.	Eighteen coumarin derivatives were tested as inhibitors of oxidosqualene cyclases (OSCs) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Trypanosoma cruzi, Pneumocystis carinii, Homo sapiens, and Arabidopsis thaliana, all expressed in an OSC-defective strain of S. cerevisiae.35 All the compounds have an aminoalkyl chain bound to an aromatic nucleus; unconventional synthetic procedures (microwave- and ultrasound-promoted reactions) were successfully used to prepare some of them. The most interesting structure-dependent difference in inhibitory activities was observed with an N-oxide group replacement of the tertiary amino group at the end of the side chain. An interesting species specificity also emerged: T. cruzi OSC was the least sensitive enzyme; P. carinii and A. thaliana OSCs were the most sensitive. The remarkable activities of three compounds on the T. cruzi enzyme and of five of them on the P. carinii enzyme suggest the present series as a promising compound family for the development of novel antiparasitic agents.
Menadione stress in Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains deficient in the glutathione transferases.	Using S. cerevisiae as a eukaryotic cell model we have analyzed the involvement of both glutathione transferase isoforms, Gtt1 and Gtt2, in constitutive resistance and adaptive response to menadione, a quinone which can exert its toxicity as redox cycling and/or electrophiles. The detoxification properties, of these enzymes, have also been analyzed by the appearance of S-conjugates in the media. Direct exposure to menadione (20 mM/60 min) showed to be lethal for cells deficient on both Gtt1 and Gtt2 isoforms. However, after pre-treatment with a low menadione concentration, cells deficient in Gtt2 displayed reduced ability to acquire tolerance when compared with the control and the Gtt1 deficient strains. Analyzing the toxic effects of menadione we observed that the gtt2 mutant showed no reduction in lipid peroxidation levels. Moreover, measuring the levels of intracellular oxidation during menadione stress we have shown that the increase of this oxidative stress parameter was due to the capacity menadione possesses in generating reactive oxygen species (ROS) and that both GSH and Gtt2 isoform were required to enhance ROS production. Furthermore, the efflux of the menadione-GSH conjugate, which is related with detoxification of xenobiotic pathways, was not detected in the gtt2 mutant. Taken together, these results suggest that acquisition of tolerance against stress generated by menadione and the process of detoxification through S-conjugates are dependent upon Gtt2 activity. This assessment was corroborated by the increase of GTT2 expression, and not of GTT1, after menadione treatment.
Analysis of gene networks for drug target discovery and validation.	Understanding responses of the cellular system for a dosing molecule is one of the most important problems in pharmacogenomics. In this chapter, we describe computational methods for identifying and validating drug target genes based on the gene networks estimated from microarray gene expression data. We use two types of microarray gene expression data: gene disruptant microarray data and time-course drug response microarray data. For this purpose, the information of gene networks plays an essential role and is unattainable from clustering methods, which are the standard for gene expression analysis. The gene network is estimated from disruptant microarray data by the Bayesian network model, and then the proposed method automatically identifies sets of genes or gene regulatory pathways affected by the drug. We use an actual example from analysis of Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene expression profile data to express a concrete strategy for the application of gene network information toward drug target discovery.
EOS1, whose deletion confers sensitivity to oxidative stress, is involved in N-glycosylation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The deletion strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae YNL080c (designed as EOS1) was identified as a strain sensitive to high-sucrose stress in our previous report [A. Ando, F. Tanaka, Y. Murata, H. Takagi, J. Shima, Identification and classification of genes required for tolerance to high sucrose stress revealed by genome-wide screening of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, FEMS Yeast Res. 6 (2006) 249-267]. Delta eos1 showed higher sensitivity to oxidative stress than to high-sucrose stress. Immunofluorescence microscopic and cellular fractionation analyses suggested that Eos1 localizes in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. We found that the deletion of EOS1 enhances tunicamycin tolerance and that in Delta eos1 the transcription level of KAR2, which is the ER stress-inducible gene, was much lower than that in the wild-type strain (BY4741) when exposed to tunicamycin. The inhibition of the N-glycosylation of carboxypeptidase Y and invertase activity caused by the addition of tunicamycin was depressed in Delta eos1, suggesting that EOS1 may be involved in N-glycosylation of the cellular proteins.
Schistosoma mansoni: the IMP4 gene is involved in DNA repair/tolerance after treatment with alkylating agent methyl methane sulfonate.	Using a functional complementation strategy, we have isolated a Schistosoma mansoni cDNA that complemented Escherichia coli mutant strains which are defective in the DNA base excision repair pathway. This cDNA partially complemented the MMS-sensitive phenotype of these strains. The sequence of the isolated cDNA was homologous to genes involved in the RNA metabolism pathway, especially ScIMP4 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. To establish whether the S. mansoni cDNA clone could complement yeast ScIMP4-defective mutants, we constructed a yeast haploid strain that coded for a truncated Imp4p protein. This mutant strain was treated with different DNA damaging agents, but showed only MMS sensitivity. The functional homology between the ScIMP4 gene and the cDNA from S. mansoni was verified by partial complementation of the mutant yeast with the worm's gene. This gene appears to be involved in DNA repair and RNA metabolism in both S. mansoni and S. cerevisiae.
Alternative 3' pre-mRNA processing in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is modulated by Nab4/Hrp1 in vivo.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae RNA-binding protein Nab4/Hrp1 is a component of the cleavage factor complex required for 3' pre-mRNA processing. Although the precise role of Nab4/Hrp1 remains unclear, it has been implicated in correct positioning of the cleavage site in vitro. Here, we show that mutation or overexpression of NAB4/HRP1 alters polyA cleavage site selection in vivo. Using bioinformatic analysis, we identified four related motifs that are statistically enriched in Nab4-associated transcripts; each motif is similar to the known binding site for Nab4/Hrp1. Site-directed mutations in predicted Nab4/Hrp1 binding elements result in decreased use of adjacent cleavage sites. Additionally, we show that the nab4-7 mutant displays a striking resistance to toxicity from excess copper. We identify a novel target of alternative 3' pre-mRNA processing, CTR2, and demonstrate that CTR2 is required for the copper resistance phenotype in the nab4-7 strain. We propose that alternative 3' pre-mRNA processing is mediated by a Nab4-based mechanism and that these alternative processing events could help control gene expression as part of a physiological response in S. cerevisiae.
Mutations at different sites in members of the Gpr1/Fun34/YaaH protein family cause hypersensitivity to acetic acid in Saccharomyces cerevisiae as well as in Yarrowia lipolytica.	The Gpr1 protein of the ascomycetous yeast Yarrowia lipolytica belongs to the poorly characterized Gpr1/Fun34/YaaH protein family, members of which have thus far only been found in prokaryotes and lower eukaryotes. Trans-dominant mutations in the GPR1 gene result in acetic acid sensitivity of cells at low pH. Moreover, Gpr1p is subjected to phosphorylation at serine-37 in a carbon source-dependent manner. Here we show that several mutations within the ORFs of the GPR1 orthologues of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, YCR010c (ATO1) and YNR002c (ATO2), also trans-dominantly induce acetic acid hypersensitivity in this yeast. We demonstrate that the C-termini of mutated Gpr1p, Ycr010cp and Ynr002cp are necessary for the triggering of acetic acid sensitivity. Phosphorylation of Y. lipolytica Gpr1p was also affected by several mutations. Data further suggest that Gpr1p exists in an oligomeric state.
Identification and characterization of a very long-chain fatty acid elongase gene in the methylotrophic yeast, Hansenula polymorpha.	To understand the biosynthetic network of fatty acids in the methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha, which is able to produce poly-unsaturated fatty acids, we have attempted to identify genes encoding fatty acid elongase. Here we have characterized HpELO1, a fatty acid elongase gene encoding a 319-amino-acid protein containing five predicted membrane-spanning regions that is conserved throughout the yeast Elo protein family. Phylogenetic analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence suggests that HpELO1 is an ortholog of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae ELO3 gene that is involved in the elongation of very long-chain fatty acids (VLCFAs). In the fatty acid profile of the Hpelo1Delta disruptant by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, the amount of C24:0 and C26:0 decreased to undetectable levels, whereas there was a large accumulation of C22:0, suggesting that the HpELO1 is involved in the elongation of VLCFAs and is essential for the production of C24:0. Expression of HpELO1 suppressed the lethality of the S. cerevisiae elo2Delta elo3Delta double disruptant and recovered the synthesis of VLCFAs. Similar to the S. cerevisiae elo3Delta strain, the Hpelo1Delta disruptant exhibited the extraordinary growth sensitivity to fumonisin B(1), a ceramide synthase inhibitor. Furthermore, cells of the Hpelo1Delta disruptant were more sensitive to Zymolyase and more flocculent than the wild-type cells, clumping together and falling rapidly out of suspension, suggesting that the Hpelo1Delta mutation causes changes in cell wall composition and structure.
MPK1 gene is required for filamentous growth induced by isoamyl alcohol in Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains from the alcoholic fermentation.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the MPK1 (SLT2) gene deletion upon filamentous growth induced by isoamyl alcohol (IAA) in two haploid industrial strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae using oligonucleotides especially designed for a laboratory S. cerevisiae strain. The gene deletion was performed by replacing part of the open reading frames from the target gene with the KanMX gene. The recombinant strains were selected by their resistance to G418, and after deletion confirmation by polymerase chain reaction, they were cultivated in a yeast extract peptone dextrose medium + 0.5% IAA to evaluate the filamentous growth in comparison to wild strains. Mpk1 derivatives were obtained for both industrial yeasts showing the feasibility of the oligonucleotides especially designed for a laboratory strain (Sigma1278b) by Martinez-Anaya et al. (In yeast, the pseudohyphal phenotype induced by isoamyl alcohol results from the operation of the morphogenesis checkpoint. J Cell Sci 116:3423-3431, 2003). The filamentation rate in these derivatives was significantly lower for both strains, as induced by IAA. This drastic reduction in the filamentation ability in the deleted strains suggests that the gene MPK1 is required for IAA-induced filamentation response. The growth curves of wild and derivative strains did not differ substantially. It is not known yet whether the switch to filamentous growth affects the fermentative characteristics of the yeast or other physiological traits. A genetically modified strain for nonfilamentous growth would be useful for these studies, and the gene MPK1 could be a target gene. The feasibility of designed oligonucleotides for this deletion in industrial yeast strains is shown.
The nature of the nitrogen source added to nitrogen depleted vinifications conducted by a Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain in synthetic must affects gene expression and the levels of several volatile compounds.	Nitrogen starvation may lead to stuck and sluggish fermentations. These undesirable situations result in wines with high residual sugar, longer vinification times, and risks of microbial contamination. The typical oenological method to prevent these problems is the early addition of ammonium salts to the grape juice, although excessive levels of these compounds may lead to negative consequences for the final product. This addition reduces the overall fermentation time, regardless of the time of addition, but the effect is more significant when nitrogen is added during the yeast exponential phase. In this work we analysed the effect of adding different nitrogen sources (ammonia, amino acids or a combination of both) under nitrogen depletion in order to understand yeast metabolic changes that lead to the adaptation to the new conditions. These studies were carried out in a synthetic must that mimics the composition of the natural must. Furthermore, we studied how this addition affects fermentative behaviour, the levels of several yeast volatile compounds in the final product, arginase activity, and the expression of several genes involved in stress response and nitrogen metabolism during vinification. We found that the nature of the nitrogen source added during yeast late exponential growth phase introduces changes to the volatile compounds profile and to the gene expression. On the other hand, arginase activity and the expression of the stress response gene ACA1 are useful to monitor nitrogen depletion/addition during growth of the wine yeast considered under our vinification conditions.
Cytoplasmic glutathione redox status determines survival upon exposure to the thiol-oxidant 4,4'-dipyridyl disulfide.	Dipyridyl disulfide (DPS) is a highly reactive thiol oxidant that functions as electron acceptor in thiol-disulfide exchange reactions. DPS is very toxic to yeasts, impairing growth at low micromolar concentrations. The genes TRX2 (thioredoxin), SOD1 (superoxide dismutase), GSH1 (gamma-glutamyl-cysteine synthetase) and, particularly, GLR1 (glutathione reductase) are required for survival on DPS. DPS is uniquely thiol-specific, and we found that the cellular mechanisms for DPS detoxification differ substantially from that of the commonly used thiol oxidant diamide. In contrast to this oxidant, the full antioxidant pools of glutathione (GSH) and thioredoxin are required for resistance to DPS. We found that DPS-sensitive mutants display increases in the disulfide form of GSH (GSSG) during DPS exposure that roughly correlate with their more oxidizing GSH redox potential in the cytosol and their degree of DPS sensitivity. DPS seems to induce a specific disulfide stress, where an increase in the cytoplasmic/nuclear GSSG/GSH ratio results in putative DPS target(s) becoming sensitive to DPS.
Growth characteristics of Saccharomyces cerevisiae S288C in changing environmental conditions: auxo-accelerostat study.	The effect of individual environmental conditions (pH, pO(2), temperature, salinity, concentration of ethanol, propanol, tryptone and yeast extract) on the specific growth rate as well as ethanol and glycerol production rate of Saccharomyces cerevisiae S288C was mapped during the fermentative growth in aerobic auxo-accelerostat cultures. The obtained steady-state values of the glycerol to ethanol formation ratio (0.1 mol mol(-1)) corresponding to those predicted from the stoichiometric model of fermentative yeast growth showed that the complete repression of respiration was obtained in auxostat culture and that the model is suitable for calculation of Y(ATP) and Q(ATP) values for the aerobic fermentative growth. Smooth decrease in the culture pH and dissolved oxygen concentration (pO2) down to the critical values of 2.3 and 0.8%, respectively, resulted in decrease in growth yield (Y(ATP)) and specific growth rate, however the specific ATP production rate (Q(ATP)) stayed almost constant. Increase in the concentration of biomass (>0.8 g dwt l(-1)), propanol (>2 g l(-1)) or NaCl (>15 g l(-1)) lead at first to the decrease in the specific growth rate and Q(ATP), while Y(ATP) was affected only at higher concentrations. The observed decrease in Q(ATP) was caused by indirect rather than direct inhibition of glycolysis. The increase in tryptone concentration resulted in an increase in the specific growth rate from 0.44 to 0.62 h(-1) and Y(ATP) from 12.5 to 18.5 mol ATP g dwt(-1). This study demonstrates that the auxo-accelerostat method, besides being an efficient tool for obtaining the culture characteristics, provides also decent conditions for the experiments elucidating the control mechanisms of cell growth.
Lissoclibadins 4-7, polysulfur aromatic alkaloids from the Indonesian ascidian Lissoclinum cf. badium.	Four new polysulfur aromatic alkaloids, lissoclibadins 4 (1), 5 (2), 6 (3), and 7 (4), were isolated from the ascidian Lissoclinum cf. badium collected in Indonesia, together with seven known alkaloids, lissoclibadins 1 (5), 2 (6), and 3 (7), lissoclinotoxins E (8) and F (9), 3,4-dimethoxy-6-(2'-N,N-dimethylaminoethyl)-5-(methylthio)benzotrithiane (10), and N,N-dimethyl-5-(methylthio)varacin (11). Compounds 1-11 were isolated from the ascidian collected in March (wet season), while 5-11 have been obtained previously from the organism collected in September (dry season) at the same site. The structures of the new compounds were assigned on the basis of their spectroscopic data. Lissoclibadins 4-7 (1-4) inhibited the colony formation of Chinese hamster V79 cells with EC50 values of 0.71, 0.06, 0.06, and 0.17 microM, respectively. Compounds 1-4 showed also weak antimicrobial activity against Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Alterations in linker flexibility suppress DNA topoisomerase I mutant-induced cell lethality.	Eukaryotic DNA topoisomerase I (Top1p) catalyzes changes in DNA topology via the formation of a covalent enzyme-DNA intermediate, which is reversibly stabilized by the anticancer agent camptothecin (CPT). Crystallographic studies of the 70-kDa C terminus of human Top1p bound to duplex DNA describe a monomeric protein clamp circumscribing the DNA helix. The structures, which lack the N-terminal domain, comprise the conserved clamp, an extended linker domain, and the conserved C-terminal active site Tyr domain. CPT bound to the covalent Top1p-DNA complex limits linker flexibility, allowing structural determination of this domain. We previously reported that mutation of Ala(653) to Pro in the linker increases the rate of enzyme-catalyzed DNA religation, thereby rendering Top1A653Pp resistant to CPT (Fiorani, P., Bruselles, A., Falconi, M., Chillemi, G., Desideri, A., and Benedetti P. (2003) J. Biol. Chem. 278, 43268-43275). Molecular dynamics studies suggested mutation-induced increases in linker flexibility alter Top1p catalyzed DNA religation. To address the functional consequences of linker flexibility on enzyme catalysis and drug sensitivity, we investigated the interactions of the A653P linker mutation with a self-poisoning T718A mutation within the active site of Top1p. The A653P mutation suppressed the lethal phenotype of Top1T718Ap in yeast, yet did not restore enzyme sensitivity to CPT. However, the specific activity of the double mutant was decreased in vivo and in vitro, consistent with a decrease in DNA binding. These findings support a model where changes in the flexibility or orientation of the linker alter the geometry of the active site and thereby the kinetics of DNA cleavage/religation catalyzed by Top1p.
Ssh4, Rcr2 and Rcr1 affect plasma membrane transporter activity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Nutrient uptake in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a highly regulated process. Cells adjust levels of nutrient transporters within the plasma membrane at multiple stages of the secretory and endosomal pathways. In the absence of the ER-membrane-localized chaperone Shr3, amino acid permeases (AAP) inefficiently fold and are largely retained in the ER. Consequently, shr3 null mutants exhibit greatly reduced rates of amino acid uptake due to lower levels of AAPs in their plasma membranes. To further our understanding of mechanisms affecting AAP localization, we identified SSH4 and RCR2 as high-copy suppressors of shr3 null mutations. The overexpression of SSH4, RCR2, or the RCR2 homolog RCR1 increases steady-state AAP levels, whereas the genetic inactivation of these genes reduces steady-state AAP levels. Additionally, the overexpression of any of these suppressor genes exerts a positive effect on phosphate and uracil uptake systems. Ssh4 and Rcr2 primarily localize to structures associated with the vacuole; however, Rcr2 also localizes to endosome-like vesicles. Our findings are consistent with a model in which Ssh4, Rcr2, and presumably Rcr1, function within the endosome-vacuole trafficking pathway, where they affect events that determine whether plasma membrane proteins are degraded or routed to the plasma membrane.
Quercetin increases oxidative stress resistance and longevity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Quercetin, the major flavonol found in several fruits and vegetables, is a natural antioxidant with potential anticancer and antiaging activities. In this paper, the effect of quercetin in Sacharomyces cerevisiae cells submitted to oxidative stress was studied. Hydrogen peroxide resistance increased in cells pretreated with quercetin. Cellular protection was correlated with a decrease in oxidative stress markers, namely, levels of reactive oxygen species, glutathione oxidation, protein carbonylation, and lipid peroxidation. The acquisition of H2O2 resistance was not associated with the induction of antioxidant defenses or with iron chelation. Oxidative stress is a limiting factor for longevity. In agreement, quercetin also increased 60% chronological life span. These results support the utilization of yeast as a useful model to screen in vivo for natural antioxidants with putative health beneficial effects.
Preprotein transport machineries of yeast mitochondrial outer membrane are not required for Bax-induced release of intermembrane space proteins.	The mitochondrial outer membrane contains protein import machineries, the translocase of the outer membrane (TOM) and the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM). It has been speculated that TOM or SAM are required for Bax-induced release of intermembrane space (IMS) proteins; however, experimental evidence has been scarce. We used isolated yeast mitochondria as a model system and report that Bax promoted an efficient release of soluble IMS proteins while preproteins were still imported, excluding an unspecific damage of mitochondria. Removal of import receptors by protease treatment did not inhibit the release of IMS proteins by Bax. Yeast mutants of each Tom receptor and the Tom40 channel were not impaired in Bax-induced protein release. We analyzed a large collection of mutants of mitochondrial outer membrane proteins, including SAM, fusion and fission components, but none of these components was required for Bax-induced protein release. The released proteins included complexes up to a size of 230 kDa. We conclude that Bax promotes efficient release of IMS proteins through the outer membrane of yeast mitochondria while the inner membrane remains intact. Inactivation of the known protein import and sorting machineries of the outer membrane does not impair the function of Bax at the mitochondria.
Absence of Btn1p in the yeast model for juvenile Batten disease may cause arginine to become toxic to yeast cells.	Lymphoblast cell lines established from individuals with juvenile Batten disease (JNCL) bearing mutations in CLN3 and yeast strains lacking Btn1p (btn1-Delta), the homolog to CLN3, have decreased intracellular levels of arginine and defective lysosomal/vacuolar transport of arginine. It is important to establish the basis for this decrease in arginine levels and whether restoration of arginine levels would be of therapeutic value for Batten disease. Previous studies have suggested that synthesis and degradation of arginine are unaltered in btn1-Delta. Using the yeast model for the Batten disease, we have determined that although btn1-Delta results in decreased intracellular arginine levels, it does not result from altered arginine uptake, arginine efflux or differences in arginine incorporation into peptides. However, expression of BTN1 is dependent on arginine and Gcn4p, the master regulator of amino acid biosynthesis. Moreover, deletion of GCN4 (gcn4-Delta), in combination with btn1-Delta, results in a very specific growth requirement for arginine. In addition, increasing the intracellular levels of arginine through overexpression of Can1p, the plasma membrane basic amino acid permease, results in increased cell volume and a severe growth defect specific to basic amino acid availability for btn1-Delta, but not wild-type cells. Therefore, elevation of intracellular levels of arginine in btn1-Delta cells is detrimental and is suggestive that btn1-Delta and perhaps mutation of CLN3 predispose cells to keep arginine levels lower than normal.
Rad50 adenylate kinase activity regulates DNA tethering by Mre11/Rad50 complexes.	Mre11 and Rad50 are the catalytic components of a highly conserved DNA repair complex that functions in many aspects of DNA metabolism involving double-strand breaks. The ATPase domains in Rad50 are related to the ABC transporter family of ATPases, previously shown to share structural similarities with adenylate kinases. Here we demonstrate that Mre11/Rad50 complexes from three organisms catalyze the reversible adenylate kinase reaction in vitro. Mutation of the conserved signature motif reduces the adenylate kinase activity of Rad50 but does not reduce ATP hydrolysis. This mutant resembles a rad50 null strain with respect to meiosis and telomere maintenance in S. cerevisiae, correlating adenylate kinase activity with in vivo functions. An adenylate kinase inhibitor blocks Mre11/Rad50-dependent DNA tethering in vitro and in cell-free extracts, indicating that adenylate kinase activity by Mre11/Rad50 promotes DNA-DNA associations. We propose a model for Rad50 that incorporates both ATPase and adenylate kinase reactions as critical activities that regulate Rad50 functions.
Fungicidal activity of cellobiose lipids from cultural fluid of yeast Cryptococcus humicola and Pseudozyma fusiformata]	Cellobiose lipids of yeast fungi Cryptococcus humicola and Pseudozyma fusiformata have similar fungicidal activities against different yeast, including pathogenic Cryptococcus and Candida species. Basidiomycetic yeast reveals maximum sensitivity to these preparations; e.g., cells of cryptococcus Filobasidiella neoformans almost completely die after 30-min incubation in a glycolipid solution at a concentration of 0.02 mg/ml. The same effect toward ascomycetous yeast, including pathogenic Candida species, is achieved only at five to eight times higher concentrations of glycolipids. The cellobiose lipid from P. fusiformata, which, unlike glycolipid from Cr. humicola, has hydroxycaproic acid residue as O-subtituent of cellobiose and additional 15-hydroxy group in aglycone, inhibits the growth of the studied mycelial fungi more efficiently than the cellobiose lipid from Cr. humicola.
Evidence for a direct role of the Doa4 deubiquitinating enzyme in protein sorting into the MVB pathway.	Degradation of various membrane proteins in the lumen of the vacuole/lysosome requires their prior sorting into the multivesicular body (MVB) pathway. In this process, ubiquitin serves as a sorting signal for most cargoes. The yeast ubiquitin hydrolase Doa4 acts late in the MVB pathway. It's role is to catalyze deubiquitination of cargo proteins prior to their sorting into the endosomal vesicles. This step rescues ubiquitin from degradation in the vacuole/lysosome, enabling it to be recycled. Accordingly, the level of monomeric ubiquitin is typically reduced in doa4 mutants. Although MVB sorting of cargo proteins is also impaired in doa4 mutants, the question of whether this defect is due solely to Doa4's role in maintaining a normal pool of ubiquitin in the cell remains open. We here show that the requirement of Doa4 for correct MVB sorting of the endocytic cargo general amino acid permease and of the biosynthetic cargo carboxypeptidase S are not because of the role of Doa4 in ubiquitin recycling. This suggests a direct role of Doa4 in MVB sorting and we show that this role depends on Doa4's catalytic activity. We propose that deubiquitination by Doa4 of cargo proteins and/or some components of the MVB sorting machinery is essential to correct sorting of cargoes into the MVB pathway.
A study of biochemical and functional interactions of Htl1p, a putative component of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Rsc chromatin-remodeling complex.	HTL1, a small gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, encodes a 78-aminoacid peptide that influences the performance of a wide range of cellular processes [Lanzuolo, C., Ederle, S., Pollice, A., Russo, F., Storlazzi, A., Pulitzer, J.F., 2001. The HTL1 gene,YCR020W-b of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is necessary for growth at 37 degrees C, and for the conservation of chromosome stability and fertility. Yeast, 18, 1317-1330]. Genetic interactions and co-immunoprecipitation experiments indicate a role for Htl1p in functions controlled by RSC, a multiprotein, ATP-dependent, chromatin-remodeling complex [Lu, Y.M., Lin, Y.R., Tsai, A., Hsao, Y.S., Li, C.C., Cheng, M.Y., 2003. Dissecting the pet18 mutation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: HTL1 encodes a 7-kDa polypeptide that interacts with components of the RSC complex. Mol. Genet. Genomics., 269, 321-330] [Romeo, M.J., Angus-Hill, M.L., Sobering, A.K., Kamada, Y., Cairns, B.R., Levin, D.E., 2002. HTL1 encodes a novel factor that interacts with the Rsc chromatin-remodeling complex in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Mol. Cell. Biol., 22, 8165-8174]. Htl1p and RSC components, share the property of associating with TBP a component of general multiprotein transcription factor TFIID [Sanders, S.L., Jennings, J., Canutescu, A., Link, A.J., Weil, P.A., 2002. Proteomics of the eukaryotic transcription machinery: identification of proteins associated with components of yeast TFIID by multidimensional mass spectrometry. Mol. Cell. Biol. 22, 4723-4738]. We confirm, by integrating genetic and biochemical experiments, that Htl1p binding to the RSC complex is direct and physiologically relevant and show that it is mediated by Rsc8p, a core component of the RSC complex. Deletion of HTL1, like depletion of RSC core subunits [Moreira, J.M., Holmberg, S., 1999. Transcriptional repression of the yeast CHA1 gene requires the chromatin-remodeling complex Rsc. Embo J., 18, 2836-2844], leads to constitutive transcription of the CHA1 locus. This transcriptional phenotype exhibits variable penetrance. Deletion of HTL1 also leads to hydroxyurea hypersensitivity at 30 degrees C, suggesting a defect in replication/repair. This defect leads, during cell growth, to selection of mutations at the SIR3 locus that suppress hydroxyurea sensitivity.
A microarray-based protocol for monitoring the growth of yeast overexpression strains.	Gene overexpression can be used to investigate the biological pathways that are important in the response to a small molecule or other perturbation. To facilitate the use of gene overexpression in the study of small-molecule mechanisms, we developed a microarray-based protocol for monitoring the growth of a pool of yeast strains, each overexpressing a different protein. In this protocol, yeast harboring a set of approximately 3,900 galactose-inducible overexpression plasmids are grown in the absence or presence of a small molecule for multiple generations. The plasmids are then extracted from the two populations, processed and labeled in such a manner that their relative concentrations can be determined by competitive hybridization to a microarray. Although this protocol was developed for monitoring a specific set of overexpression plasmids, it could presumably be adapted to monitor yeast that have been transformed with any set of plasmids for which the gene inserts have been spotted, or otherwise arrayed, in a microarray format. This protocol can be completed in approximately 15 hours of hands-on time over the course of several days.
Evaluation of toxicity of the mycotoxin citrinin using yeast ORF DNA microarray and Oligo DNA microarray.	Mycotoxins are fungal secondary metabolites commonly present in feed and food, and are widely regarded as hazardous contaminants. Citrinin, one of the very well known mycotoxins that was first isolated from Penicillium citrinum, is produced by more than 10 kinds of fungi, and is possibly spread all over the world. However, the information on the action mechanism of the toxin is limited. Thus, we investigated the citrinin-induced genomic response for evaluating its toxicity.
Effect of carbon source perturbations on transcriptional regulation of metabolic fluxes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Control effective flux (CEF) of a reaction is the weighted sum of all fluxes through that reaction, derived from elementary flux modes (EFM) of a metabolic network. Change in CEFs under different environmental conditions has earlier been proven to be correlated with the corresponding changes in the transcriptome. Here we use this to investigate the degree of transcriptional regulation of fluxes in the metabolism of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We do this by quantifying correlations between changes in CEFs and changes in transcript levels for shifts in carbon source, i.e. between the fermentative carbon source glucose and nonfermentative carbon sources like ethanol, acetate, and lactate. The CEF analysis is based on a simple stoichiometric model that includes reactions of the central carbon metabolism and the amino acid metabolism.
Cloning and transcriptional analysis of the ADE6 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene, ADE6, encoding 5'-phosphoribosylformyl glycinamidine synthetase (EC 6.3.5.3) has been cloned by complementation of an ade6 auxotroph. Transformation of ade6 mutants with ADE6-carrying centromeric plasmids restored normal, adenine-independent growth behavior in the recipients. Strains containing a disrupted ade6 allele were constructed and behaved as stable adenine auxotrophs. Southern transfer and genetic analyses of strains carrying a disrupted ade6 allele demonstrated that the cloned gene was ADE6 and not a suppressor. The cloned ADE6 DNA was mapped on the RAD2-proximal fragment of chromosome VII by hybridization on yeast chromosomes separated by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. Northern-blot hybridization experiments show that the ADE6 region produces two different mRNA species of approx. 5 and 2 kb. Disappearance of the larger, but not the smaller, transcript is associated with ade6 mutations. A threefold repression in the amount of the 5-kb ADE6 mRNA is observed when growth medium is supplemented with exogenous adenine.
The gene encoding squalene epoxidase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae: cloning and characterization.	The gene (ERG1) encoding squalene epoxidase (ERG) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae was cloned. It was isolated from a gene library, prepared from an allylamine-resistant (AlR) S. cerevisiae mutant, by screening transformants in a sensitive strain for AlR colonies. The ERG tested in a cell-free extract from one of these transformants proved to be resistant to the Al derivative, terbinafine. From this result, we concluded that the recombinant plasmid in the transformant carried an allelic form of the ERG1 gene. The nucleotide sequence showed the presence of one open reading frame coding for a 55,190-Da peptide of 496 amino acids. Southern hybridization experiments allowed us to localize the ERG1 gene on yeast chromosome 15.
Telomere-related functions of yeast KU in the repair of bleomycin-induced DNA damage.	Bleomycins are small glycopeptide cancer chemotherapeutics that give rise to 3'-modified DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, DSBs are predominantly repaired by RAD52-dependent homologous recombination (HR) with some support by Yku70/Yku80 (KU)-dependent pathways. The main DSB repair function of KU is believed to be as part of the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) pathway, but KU also functions in a "chromosome healing" pathway that seals DSBs by de novo telomere addition. We report here that rad52Deltayku70Delta double mutants are considerably more bleomycin hypersensitive than rad52Deltalig4Delta cells that lack the NHEJ-specific DNA ligase 4. Moreover, the telomere-specific KU mutation yku80-135i also dramatically increases rad52Delta bleomycin hypersensitivity, almost to the level of rad52Deltayku80Delta. The results indicate that telomere-specific functions of KU play a more prominent role in the repair of bleomycin-induced damage than its NHEJ functions, which could have important clinical implications for bleomycin-based combination chemotherapies.
Oxidative stress and protease dysfunction in the yeast model of Friedreich ataxia.	Friedreich ataxia has frequently been associated with an increased susceptibility to oxidative stress. We used the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) model of Friedreich ataxia to study the physiological consequences of a shift from anaerobiosis to aerobiosis. Cells lacking frataxin (Deltayfh1) showed no growth defect when cultured anaerobically. Under these conditions, a significant amount of aconitase was functional, with an intact 4 Fe/4 S cluster. When shifted to aerobic conditions, aconitase was rapidly degraded, and oxidatively modified proteins (carbonylated and HNE-modified proteins) accumulated in both the cytosol and the mitochondria. The ATP-dependent mitochondrial protease Pim1 (Lon) was strongly activated, although its expression level remained unchanged, and the cytosolic activity of the 20S proteasome was greatly decreased, compared to that in wild-type cells. Analysis of the purified proteasome revealed that the decrease in proteasome activity was likely due to both direct inactivation of the enzyme and inhibition by cytosolic oxidized proteins. These features indicate that the cells were subjected to major oxidative stress triggered by oxygen. Accumulation of oxidatively modified proteins, activation of Pim1, and proteasome inhibition did not directly depend on the amount of mitochondrial iron, because these phenotypes remained unchanged when the cells were grown under iron-limiting conditions, and these phenotypes were not observed in another mutant (Deltaggc1) which overaccumulates iron in its mitochondrial compartment. We conclude that oxygen is primarily involved in generating the deleterious phenotypes that are observed in frataxin-deficient yeast cells.
Self-association and BiP dissociation are not sufficient for activation of the ER stress sensor Ire1.	Ire1 is a type I transmembrane protein located on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Upon ER stress, Ire1 releases the ER chaperone BiP and self-associates. This activates Ire1 and triggers the unfolded protein response in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We isolated and characterized an Ire1 luminal domain mutant lacking both the N-terminal and the juxtamembrane loosely folded subregions. Although this 'core' mutant was able to self-associate and failed to bind BiP even under nonstressed conditions, its activation was still dependent on ER stress. Furthermore, although substitution of Pro for Ser103 (S103P) in the luminal domain of full-length Ire1 caused neither BiP dissociation nor a change in self-association, the substitution in combination with the core mutation resulted in constitutive activation. This phenotype of the S103P mutation required a cluster of positively charged amino acid residues (Arg or Lys) located close to the mutation site in the Ire1 sequence. These observations indicate that in addition to BiP dissociation and self-association of Ire1, another unknown change on the luminal side is crucial for Ire1 activation.
Function of the putative Na+/H+ antiporter gene PeNhaD1 from salt-resistant Populus euphratica Oliv]	Yeast complementation experiments were carried out to define the possible function of PeNhaD1, a Na(+)/H(+) antiporter gene from Populus euphratica Oliv., a salt resistant tree. PeNhaD1 was introduced to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant strain ANT3 (Deltaena1-4::HIS3 Deltanha1::LEU2), which lacks the plasma membrane Na(+)/H(+) antiporter gene ScNHA1 or GX1 (Deltanhx1::TRP1), which lacks tonoplast Na(+)/H(+) antiporter gene ScNHX1. Our results showed that PeNhaD1 rescued the normal growth of ANT3 in the presence of high salt (80 mmol/L NaCl on solid medium or 400 mmol/L in liquid medium, pH 6.0), but not that of GX1, suggesting that PeNhaD1 may play a role in salt tolerance of Populus euphratica by maintaining the capacity for salt exclusion under saline condition.
Inhibiton by sulfanilamide of sporulation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The antimetabolite sulfanilamide inhibits sporulation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain AP1. Cells exposed to sulfanilamide at various times during the sporulation process become progressively insensitive to the drug, although accumulation of sulfanilamide by the cells increases with time. Vegetative growth of AP1 is practically unaffected by sulfanilamide; pregrowth of the cells in the presence of the drug does not prevent sporulation. Thus, inhibition is confined to the meiotic phase of the cell cycle. Sensitivity to sulfanilamide is independent of pH. Increasing the time cells are exposed to sulfanilamide results in a progressive reduction of ascus formation; however, the inhibition is reversible since sporulation can occur in cells exposed to the drug for greater than 24 h. The drug arrests the cells at a point before commitment to sporulation, since yeast cells exposed to sulfanilamide for 12 h do not complete the sporulation process when returnedto vegetative medium, but resume mitotic growth instead. Meiotic nuclear division is largely prevented by sulfanilamide, and synthesis of RNA and protein is severely retarded. DNA synthesis is inhibited up to 50%; glycogen synthesis is approximately 90% inhibited. Other yeast strains showed varying sensitivity to sulfanilamide; homothallic strains were generally less affected.
Cwp2p, the plasma membrane receptor for Pichia membranifaciens killer toxin.	PMKT is a channel-forming killer toxin secreted by Pichia membranifaciens. To identify novel genes that mediate cellular resistance to PMKT we screened a collection of 288 deletion mutants. We found 29 open reading frames (ORFs) that, when deleted, confer resistance to PMKT. In addition, the deletion of 15 ORFs was observed to increase protoplast resistance, in agreement with the initial assumption that a plasma membrane receptor for PMKT exists. Whole cells and protoplasts of a cwp2Delta mutant were found to be completely resistant to PMKT and were unable to bind PMKT, indicating that Cwp2p interacts with it. A protein with a molecular mass of 11.7 kDa was purified from PMKT-affinity columns. This protein was sequenced and identified as Cwp2p. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchoring-defective mutants were much less sensitive to PMKT, as were wild-type protoplasts pretreated with phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C to remove GPI-anchored proteins, indicating that the GPI-anchored precursor of Cwp2p is also necessary for PMKT activity. Carboxyfluorescein-entrapped liposomes containing a purified GFP-Cwp2p fusion protein in their membranes were much more sensitive to PMKT than protein-free liposomes. Cwp2p and its GPI-anchored precursor are proposed for the first time to be involved as PMKT secondary receptors.
Yeast on drugs: Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a tool for anticancer drug research.	The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is being widely used as a model for investigating fundamental processes relevant to all living organisms. Many of these processes are affected by genetic and epigenetic alterations in cancer such as cell cycle progression, DNA replication and segregation, maintenance of genomic integrity and stress responses. Therefore, yeast emerges as an attractive model for anticancer drug research. The genetic tractability of budding yeast, its ease of manipulation and the wealth of functional genomics tools available in this organism makes it ideal for genome-wide analysis of biological functions and chemical screenings. The present review will discuss some of the innovative advantages based on yeast genetics and genomics for antitumour drug target identification and drug discovery.
Mitochondria-independent morphological and biochemical apoptotic alterations promoted by the anti-tumor agent bleomycin in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Bleomycin is a highly potent cytotoxic and genotoxic agent used in the chemotherapy of various types of tumors. It is a radiomimetic anticancer drug that produces single- and double-stranded DNA breaks in a catalytic way. Using Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model system, we show that when a high amount of bleomycin molecules is internalized (100 micromol/L), morphological changes identical to those usually associated with apoptosis, i.e., a sub-G1 region peak, chromatin condensation, and very rapid DNA fragmentation into oligonucleosomal-sized fragments, are observed. The known bleomycin inhibitors cobalt and EDTA were able to prevent bleomycin nucleasic activity and thus apoptotic cell death. However, both oligomycin, a potent inhibitor of the mitochondrial F0F1-ATPase, and antimycin, a drug affecting mitochondria respiration, were unable to prevent the bleomycin-induced apoptotic-like cell death. These results suggest that high bleomycin concentrations induce an apoptosis-like mitochondria-independent cell death in yeast.
Protein expression profiles in Saccharomyces cerevisiae during apoptosis induced by H2O2.	We identified the proteins involved during apoptosis induced by H2O2 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and analyzed the global protein pattern by 2-DE. We analyzed classical parameters of apoptosis such as chromatin condensation, DNA fragmentation, and morphology changes of cells. Exposure of yeast cells to nonphysiological doses of peroxides decreases the expression (or increases degradation) of enzymes involved in protection against oxidative stress. This leads the yeast cells to a reduction of their antioxidant defense and makes the cells more prone to apoptosis. In our data the down expression of peroxiredoxin II and GST I, could induce a perturbation of mitochondrial function with an alteration of permeability of the membrane leading to the mitochondria-mediated apoptosis. Moreover, we identified a new spot of a classical glycolytic enzyme: the glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase during apoptosis. It is known that GAPDH is an extremely abundant glycolytic enzyme with multiple functions and that its overexpression is evident during apoptosis induced by a variety of stimuli. Our results confirm that it is a major intracellular messenger mediating apoptotic death and that this new spot of GAPDH could be an intracellular sensor of oxidative stress during apoptosis induced by H2O2 in S. cerevisiae.
Response of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to lead ion stress.	The response of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to different concentrations of Pb(2+) was investigated. The results demonstrated that the growth of S. cerevisiae in the presence of Pb(2+) showed a lag phase much longer than that in the absence of Pb(2+). The inhibition was dependent upon Pb(2+) concentrations. The Pb(2+) at a concentration of 5 microM inhibited the microbial growth by approximately 30% with regard to control, whereas Pb(2+) at concentration of 2 microM did not have a significant effect on the microbial growth. The existence of Pb(2+) did not perturb cell-protein synthesis and there was a good correlation between dry cell weights and total protein content (R (2) = 0.98). The RNA/DNA ratio in the microbial cells varied with Pb(2+) concentration and there was a significant positive correlation between Pb(2+) concentration and the RNA/DNA ratio. The microbial assimilation of ammonium ion was inhibited by the presence of Pb(2+) in the medium; when Pb(2+) concentration was 10 microM, the microbial ammonium assimilation was inhibited about 50%, in comparison with the control experiment.
Comparison of the endocrine effects of treated wastewaters from different paper mills by use of an in-vitro test with modified yeast cells.	As opposed to effluents from chemical pulp production, very little is known about the endocrine potential of papermaking effluents. To evaluate the endocrine potential of biologically treated effluents from the main grades produced in Germany (fine, graphic and packaging papers), 16 samples were studied by means of the Recombinant Yeast Estrogen Assay (R-YEA). 10 samples were tested positive; seven of them were effluents from recovered paper processing mills. Possible sources of endocrine disruptors in addition to wood components include papermaking chemicals, paper converting chemicals, if recovered paper is used, and/or detrimental substances introduced by impurities in these chemicals. Six of the above samples were subjected to individual substance analyses to detect endocrinologically active or potentially endocrinologically active substances. Even though phthalate compounds were detected in concentrations between 0.46 and 2.36 microg/L, only two of the six samples were tested positive in the R-YEA, because the test fails to adequately detect this compound's class. Despite this drawback, the R-YEA will be used for further studies because of the great variety of potential endocrine substances present in paper mill effluents. In particular, mechanical and recycled fibre pulps as well as the constituents of chemical additives must be investigated in more detail.
Inhibition of membrane Ca2(+)-ATPase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae by mating pheromone alpha-factor in vitro.	Plasma membrane Ca2(+)-ATPase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was solubilized and partially purified by calmodulin-affinity chromatography. The activity of Ca2(+)-ATPase isolated from MATa cells was inhibited by physiological concentrations of the mating pheromone alpha-factor in a dose-dependent manner. The enzyme prepared from a receptor-deficient sterile mutant cells (delta ste-2) was similarly inhibited by alpha-factor, but the enzyme from MAT alpha cells was resistant to the mating pheromone. We suggest that the inhibition may be involved in the alpha-factor-induced increase of Ca2+ uptake reaction of MATa cells.
Differential sensitivity of the cellular compartments of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to protonophoric uncoupler under fermentative and respiratory energy supply.	The effect of a protonophoric uncoupler (CCCP) on the different cellular compartments was investigated in yeast grown aerobically on lactate. These cells were incubated in a resting cell medium under three conditions; in aerobiosis with lactate or glucose or in anaerobiosis with glucose as energetic substrate. For each condition, in vivo 31P NMR was used to measure pH gradients across vacuolar and plasma membrane and phosphorylated compound levels. Respiratory rate (aerobic conditions) and TPP+ uptake were measured independently. Concerning the polyphosphate metabolism, spontaneous NMR-detected polyphosphate breakdown occurred, in anaerobiosis and in the absence of CCCP. In contrast, in aerobiosis, polyphosphate hydrolysis was induced by addition of either CCCP or a vacuolar membrane ATPase-specific inhibitor, bafilomycin A1. Moreover, polyphosphates were totally absent in a null vacuolar ATPase activity mutant. The vacuolar polyphosphate content depended on two factors: vacuolar pH value, strictly linked to the vacuolar H(+)-ATPase activity, and inorganic phosphate concentration. CCCP was more efficient in dissipating the proton electrochemical gradient across vacuolar and mitochondrial membranes than across the plasma membrane. This discrepancy can be essentially explained by a difference of stimulability of each proton pump involved. As long as the energetic state (measured by NDP + NTP content) remains high, the plasma membrane proton ATPase is able to compensate the proton leak. Moreover, this ATPase contributes only partially to the generation of delta pH. The maintenance of the delta pH across the plasma membrane, that of the energetic state, and the cellular TPP+ uptake depend on the nature of the ATP-producing process.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Deuterium oxide, dimethylsulfoxide and heat shock confer protection against hydrostatic pressure damage in yeast.	Deuterium oxide, dimethylsulfoxide (Me2SO) and heat shock treatment were all significantly effective at baro-injury as measured by plating efficiency after decompression. The content of unfreezable cell water was observed to increase during heat treatment, and this increase was associated with increase in viability.
Purification, biosynthesis and cellular localization of a major 125-kDa glycophosphatidylinositol-anchored membrane glycoprotein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been shown to contain a major 125-kDa membrane glycoprotein which is anchored in the lipid bilayer by a glycophosphatidylinositol anchor. This protein was purified to near homogeneity and was used to raise a rabbit antibody. Biosynthesis of the 125-kDa protein was studied by immunoprecipitation of 35SO4-labeled material from wild-type cells or a secretion mutant (sec18) in which the vesicular traffic from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi is blocked. The 125-kDa protein is first made in the ER as a 105-kDa precursor which already contains a glycophosphatidylinositol anchor and which is slowly transformed into the 125-kDa form upon chase (t1/2 approximately 10-15 min). The 105-kDa precursor can be reduced to an 83-kDa form by the enzymatic removal of N-glycans. The removal of N-glycans from the mature 125-kDa protein yields a 95-kDa species. Thus, removal of the N-glycans does not reduce the ER and mature forms to the same molecular mass, indicating that not only elongation of N-glycans but also another post-translational modification takes place during maturation. Selective tagging of surface proteins by treatment of 35SO4-labeled cells with trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid at 0 C followed by immunoprecipitation of the tagged proteins shows that the 125-kDa protein, but not the 105-kDa precursor, becomes transported to the cell surface. This tagging of cells after various lengths of chase also shows that the surface appearance of the protein is biphasic with about one half of the mature 125-kDa protein remaining intracellular for over 2 h. Glycosylation and/or glycophosphatidylinositol anchor addition is important for the stability of the 125-kDa protein since the protein remains undetectable in sec53, a temperature-sensitive mutant which does not make GDP-mannose at 37 C and does not add glycophosphatidylinositol anchors at 37 degrees C.
Effect of a carbon source on polyphosphate accumulation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae accumulate inorganic polyphosphate (polyP) when reinoculated on a phosphate-containing medium after phosphorus starvation. Total polyP accumulation was similar at cultivation on both glucose and ethanol. Five separate fractions of polyP: acid-soluble fraction polyP1, salt-soluble fraction polyP2, weakly alkali-soluble fraction polyP3, alkali-soluble fraction polyP4, and polyP5, have been obtained from the cells grown on glucose and ethanol under phosphate overplus. The dynamics of polyP fractions depend on a carbon source. The accumulation rates for fractions polyP2 and polyP4 were independent of the carbon source. The accumulation rates of polyP1 and polyP3 were higher on glucose, while fraction polyP5 accumulated faster on ethanol. As to the maximal polyP levels, they were independent of the carbon source for fractions polyP2, polyP3, and polyP4. The maximal level of fraction polyP1 was higher on glucose than on ethanol, but the level of fraction polyP5 was higher on ethanol. It was assumed that accumulation of separate polyP fractions has a metabolic interrelation with different energy-providing pathways. The polyphosphate nature of fraction polyP5 was demonstrated for the first time by (31)P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, enzymatic assay, and electrophoresis.
Cytoplasmic localization of sterol transcription factors Upc2p and Ecm22p in S. cerevisiae.	Ergosterol homeostasis is a critical process for fungal cells. Paralogous zinc cluster transcription factors Upc2p and Ecm22p are major regulators of ergosterol biosynthesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Upc2p and Ecm22p sense and respond to sterol depletion but their mechanism of activation has not been defined. Subcellular localization and functional expression of Upc2p-GFP and Ecm22p-GFP was monitored by fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry in live yeast cells. Both fusion proteins localized to intracellular membranes and to perinuclear foci. Perinuclear localization of Upc2p-GFP and Ecm22p-GFP was increased when ergosterol biosynthesis was blocked by azole drug treatment. Nuclear localization in response to sterol depletion is consistent with the hypothesis that Upc2p and Ecm22p are trafficked from a membrane to the nucleus as a post-translational mechanism of sterol sensing.
A genome-wide screen of genes involved in cadmium tolerance in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	Cadmium is a worldwide environmental toxicant responsible for a range of human diseases including cancer. Cellular injury from cadmium is minimized by stress-responsive detoxification mechanisms. We explored the genetic requirements for cadmium tolerance by individually screening mutants from the fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe) haploid deletion collection for inhibited growth on agar growth media containing cadmium. Cadmium-sensitive mutants were further tested for sensitivity to oxidative stress (hydrogen peroxide) and osmotic stress (potassium chloride). Of 2649 mutants screened, 237 were sensitive to cadmium, of which 168 were cadmium specific. Most were previously unknown to be involved in cadmium tolerance. The 237 genes represent a number of pathways including sulfate assimilation, phytochelatin synthesis and transport, ubiquinone (Coenzyme Q10) biosynthesis, stress signaling, cell wall biosynthesis and cell morphology, gene expression and chromatin remodeling, vacuole function, and intracellular transport of macromolecules. The ubiquinone biosynthesis mutants are acutely sensitive to cadmium but only mildly sensitive to hydrogen peroxide, indicating that Coenzyme Q10 plays a larger role in cadmium tolerance than just as an antioxidant. These and several other mutants turn yellow when exposed to cadmium, suggesting cadmium sulfide accumulation. This phenotype can potentially be used as a biomarker for cadmium. There is remarkably little overlap with a comparable screen of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae haploid deletion collection, indicating that the two distantly related yeasts utilize significantly different strategies for coping with cadmium stress. These strategies and their relation to cadmium detoxification in humans are discussed.
Deletion of MAG1 and MRE11 enhances the sensitivity of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae HUG1P-GFP promoter-reporter construct to genotoxicity.	Eukaryotic yeast-based DNA damage cellular sensors offer many advantages to traditional prokaryotic-based mutagenicity assays. The HUG1P-GFP promoter-reporter construct has proven to be an effective method to selectively screen for multiple types of DNA damage. To enhance the sensitivity and selectivity of the system to different types of DNA damage, two genes involved in distinct DNA damage responses were deleted. Deletion of MAG1, a gene encoding a DNA glycosylase and member of the base excision repair (BER) pathway, increased the biosensor's sensitivity to the alkylating agents methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) (lowering the sensitivity threshold to 0.0001% (v/v)) and ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS). Deletion of MRE11, part of the highly conserved RMX complex that aids in sensing and repairing double strand breaks in budding yeasts, enhanced sensitivity to gamma radiation (gamma-ray) (detection threshold of 50Gy) and camptothecin. The mre11Delta phenotype dominated in mag1Deltamre11Delta strains. Through the deletions, we were able to engineer increased selectivity to alkylating agents, gamma-ray, and camptothecin, since increased sensitivity to one type of damage did not alter the quantitative response to other genotoxins. The enhancements to the HUG1P-GFP system did not affect its ability to detect several other DNA damaging agents, including 1,2-dimethyl hydrazine (SDMH), phleomycin, and hydroxyurea (HU), or affect its lack of response to the potentially non-genotoxic carcinogen formaldehyde.
The Schizosaccharomyces pombe Pfh1p DNA helicase is essential for the maintenance of nuclear and mitochondrial DNA.	Schizosaccharomyces pombe Pfh1p is an essential member of the Pif family of 5'-3' DNA helicases. The two Saccharomyces cerevisiae homologs, Pif1p and Rrm3p, function in nuclear DNA replication, telomere length regulation, and mitochondrial genome integrity. We demonstrate here the existence of multiple Pfh1p isoforms that localized to either nuclei or mitochondria. The catalytic activity of Pfh1p was essential in both cellular compartments. The absence of nuclear Pfh1p resulted in G(2) arrest and accumulation of DNA damage foci, a finding suggestive of an essential role in DNA replication. Exogenous DNA damage resulted in localization of Pfh1p to DNA damage foci, suggesting that nuclear Pfh1p also functions in DNA repair. The absence of mitochondrial Pfh1p caused rapid depletion of mitochondrial DNA. Despite localization to nuclei and mitochondria in S. pombe, neither of the S. cerevisiae homologs, nor human PIF1, suppressed the lethality of pfh1Delta cells. However, the essential nuclear function of Pfh1p could be supplied by Rrm3p. Expression of Rrm3p suppressed the accumulation of DNA damage foci but not the hydroxyurea sensitivity of cells depleted of nuclear Pfh1p. Together, these data demonstrate that Pfh1p has essential roles in the replication of both nuclear and mitochondrial DNA.
Pdr12p-dependent and -independent fluorescein extrusion from baker's yeast cells.	Fluorescein efflux from S. cerevisiae cells was measured to study the peculiarities of fluorescein transport system, which is important for yeast resistance to certain drugs and weak organic acid preservatives. Glucose-independent and glucose-stimulated fluorescein effluxes were characterized using iodoacetate, cyanide and orthovanadate, inhibitors of glycolysis, electron transport chain, and ATPases, respectively. It is supposed that in glucose-free medium fluorescein extrusion is ATP-dependent and the energy for this efflux is mainly provided by respiration. In glucose-containing medium, glycolysis plays a critical role for extrusion of fluorescein. The results indicate that acetic acid inhibits the fluorescein efflux from yeast cells. The inhibition constant of glucose-stimulated fluorescein efflux is significantly lower in parental strain than in two mutants defective in PDR12 (ABC-transporter Pdr12p) or WAR1 (transcription factor of Pdr12p). It can be suggested that the membrane protein Pdr12 is involved in fluorescein extrusion from the yeast cells, but component(s) other than Pdr12p is (are) also important.
Dose-to-duration encoding and signaling beyond saturation in intracellular signaling networks.	The cellular response elicited by an environmental cue typically varies with the strength of the stimulus. For example, in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the concentration of mating pheromone determines whether cells undergo vegetative growth, chemotropic growth, or mating. This implies that the signaling pathways responsible for detecting the stimulus and initiating a response must transmit quantitative information about the intensity of the signal. Our previous experimental results suggest that yeast encode pheromone concentration as the duration of the transmitted signal. Here we use mathematical modeling to analyze possible biochemical mechanisms for performing this "dose-to-duration" conversion. We demonstrate that modulation of signal duration increases the range of stimulus concentrations for which dose-dependent responses are possible; this increased dynamic range produces the counterintuitive result of "signaling beyond saturation" in which dose-dependent responses are still possible after apparent saturation of the receptors. We propose a mechanism for dose-to-duration encoding in the yeast pheromone pathway that is consistent with current experimental observations. Most previous investigations of information processing by signaling pathways have focused on amplitude encoding without considering temporal aspects of signal transduction. Here we demonstrate that dose-to-duration encoding provides cells with an alternative mechanism for processing and transmitting quantitative information about their surrounding environment. The ability of signaling pathways to convert stimulus strength into signal duration results directly from the nonlinear nature of these systems and emphasizes the importance of considering the dynamic properties of signaling pathways when characterizing their behavior. Understanding how signaling pathways encode and transmit quantitative information about the external environment will not only deepen our understanding of these systems but also provide insight into how to reestablish proper function of pathways that have become dysregulated by disease.
Various oils and detergents enhance the microbial production of farnesol and related prenyl alcohols.	The object of this research was improvement of prenyl alcohol production with squalene synthase-deficient mutant Saccharomyces cerevisiae ATCC 64031. On screening of many kinds of additives, we found that oils and detergents significantly enhanced the extracellular production of prenyl alcohols. Soybean oil showed the most prominent effect among the additives tested. Its effect was accelerated by a high concentration of glucose in the medium. The combination of these cultivation conditions led to the production of more than 28 mg/l of farnesol in the soluble fraction of the broth. The addition of these compounds to the medium was an effective method for large-scale production of prenyl alcohols with microorganisms.
Pheromone-induced phosphorylation of a G protein beta subunit in S. cerevisiae is associated with an adaptive response to mating pheromone.	The mating pheromone response in S. cerevisiae is activated by a G protein-mediated signaling pathway in which G beta gamma is the active transducer of the signal. When exogenous pheromone is added to vegetatively growing cells, G beta is rapidly phosphorylated at several sites; phosphorylation does not require de novo protein synthesis. A mutation in G beta was constructed that eliminates signal-induced phosphorylation. This mutation leads to enhanced sensitivity to and impaired ability to recover from pheromone, but does not affect the ability of G beta gamma to transmit the mating signal. These phenotypes suggest that G protein phosphorylation mediates an adaptive response to pheromone-induced signaling. G beta phosphorylation does not require either the pheromone receptor C-terminus or the product of the SST2 gene, both of which mediate separate adaptive responses to pheromone. However, G beta phosphorylation is greatly facilitated by the presence of the G alpha subunit, which has also been shown to participate in an adaptation to pheromone.
Inhibition of glycogen synthesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by the mating pheromone alpha-factor.	Treatment of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae with the pheromone alpha-factor caused an inhibition of glycogen synthesis in MATa haploid cells but not in MAT alpha cells or MATa/MAT alpha diploid cells. The concentration of alpha-factor required for a half-maximal inhibition was comparable to that required for the induction of the FUS1 gene. Strains containing a disruption in ste2 or ste12 or temperature-sensitive mutations in ste4, ste7, or ste11 continued to divide and to accumulate glycogen in the presence of alpha-factor. In contrast, inhibition of glycogen occurred upon exposure to mating pheromone of far1 mutants which, under this condition, fail to arrest in G1 and continue to divide while simultaneously undergoing the transcriptional induction and morphological changes typical of mating cells. The inhibition of glycogen accumulation by alpha-factor persisted in a strain lacking glycogen phosphorylase (EC 2.4.1.1), which ruled out the participation of this enzyme in the pheromone response. Glycogen synthase (EC 2.4.1.11) from a cells treated with alpha-factor was found primarily in the glucose 6-phosphate-dependent (inactive) form whereas the total activity was unaltered. This indicates that the action of mating pheromone is mainly to inhibit the interconversion of the inactive glucose 6-phosphate-dependent form to the active glucose 6-phosphate-independent form of glycogen synthase without affecting the concentration of the enzyme.
Role of heat shock transcription factor in yeast metallothionein gene expression.	The induction of Saccharomyces cerevisiae metallothionein gene transcription by Cu and Ag is mediated by the ACE1 transcription factor. In an effort to detect additional stimuli and factors that regulate metallothionein gene transcription, we isolated a Cu-resistant suppressor mutant of an ACE1 deletion strain. Even in the absence of metals, the suppressor mutant exhibited high basal levels of metallothionein gene transcription that required upstream promoter sequences. The suppressor gene was cloned, and its predicted product was shown to correspond to yeast heat shock transcription factor with a single-amino-acid substitution in the DNA-binding domain. The mutant heat shock factor bound strongly to metallothionein gene upstream promoter sequences, whereas wild-type heat shock factor interacted weakly with the same region. Heat treatment led to a slight but reproducible induction of metallothionein gene expression in both wild-type and suppressor strains, and Cd induced transcription in the mutant strain. These studies provide evidence for multiple pathways of metallothionein gene transcriptional regulation in S. cerevisiae.
Modulation of the antifungal activity of new medicinal plant extracts active on Candida glabrata by the major transporters and regulators of the pleiotropic drug-resistance network in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The increased incidence of drug-resistant fungal infections, a process in which active efflux plays an important role, calls for the development of new treatments. Candida albicans and Candida glabrata are the most frequent human fungal pathogens. The latter, in spite of its increased azole tolerance, is rarely used in medicinal plant screening. Several extracts inhibiting the growth of this pathogenic yeast are identified here. The ethyl acetate extract of the herb Dalea formosa of the American Southwest, not previously known to possess antifungal activity, proved most active against azole-sensitive and azole-resistant isolates. The model yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, related to C. glabrata, was used to evaluate the influence of multidrug efflux on the antifungal activity of identified extracts and selected fractions from further purification steps, together with their ability to modulate ketoconazole resistance. The differential involvement of the major pleiotropic drug transporters of the ATP-binding cassette superfamily Pdr5p, Snq2p, and Yor1p as well as their transcriptional activators Pdr1p and Pdr3p in the detoxification of the antifungal constituents of several important medicinal plants is demonstrated. These include Artemisia annua and its widely used antimalarial component artemisinin. This approach revealed the concomitant presence of multidrug efflux pump substrates and modulators in the extract of A. annua and also allowed the identification of an extract not affected by the major pleiotropic drug-resistance genes.
Cytochemical and biochemical studies of yeasts after in vitro exposure to miconazole.	Yeast cells exposed to different doses of the antimycotic agent miconazole revealed important cytochemical changes in the topographic distribution of the phosphatases. A strong effect was observed on the behavior of oxidative and peroxidative enzymes. Decreased cytochrome c oxidase and peroxidase activity and increased catalase activity were seen after treatment with a fungistatic dose of miconazole, whereas a complete disappearance of these enzymes was observed after treatment with a minimal fungicidal dose of miconazole. This was in complete agreement with the quantitative biochemical data. A hypothesis is advanced concerning the possible involvement of peroxidase and catalase in the mechanism of action of this drug.
Alkaline sucrose sedimentation studies of MMS-induced DNA single-strand breakage and rejoining in the wild type and in UV-sensitive mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	MMS-induced DNA single-strand breakage and rejoining was studied in the RAD strain and in rad6 and rad21 mutants, both very sensitive to this treatment as compared with the wild type. Alkaline sucrose gradient centrifugation showed that MMS treatment reduced the molecular weight of DNA in the RAD strain and in rad6 and rad21 mutants to the same extent. Four hours of post-incubation in synthetic growth medium after treatment with a dose of 0.4% MMS which reduces cell survival of RAD, rad21 and rad6 to 50, 20 and less than 0.01%, respectively, resulted in a significant increase in the molecular weight of DNA in the wild type, but in only slight increase in mutant strains. When the strains were exposed to a lower dose of MMS (0.04%) which led to 100% survival of RAD and 50 and 20% survival of rad21 and rad6, respectively, wild-type DNA sedimented to the position of control DNA, while in both mutants the increase in molecular weight of DNA was less pronounced.
Stress-dependent coordination of transcriptome and translatome in yeast.	Cells rapidly alter gene expression in response to environmental stimuli such as nutrients, hormones, and drugs. During the imposed "remodeling" of gene expression, changes in the levels of particular mRNAs do not necessarily correlate with those of the encoded proteins, which could in part rely on the differential recruitment of mRNAs to translating ribosomes. To systematically address this issue, we have established an approach to rapidly access the translational status of each mRNA in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae by affinity purification of endogenously formed ribosomes and the analysis of associated mRNAs with DNA microarrays. Using this method, we compared changes in total mRNA levels (transcriptome) with ribosome associations (translatome) after the application of different conditions of cellular stress. Severe stresses, induced by amino acid depletion or osmotic shock, stimulated highly correlated responses affecting about 15% of both total RNA levels and translatome. Many of the regulated messages code for functionally related proteins, thus reflecting logical responses to the particular stress. In contrast, mild stress provoked by addition of Calcofluor-white and menadione altered the translatome of approximately 1% of messages with only marginal effects on total mRNA, suggesting largely uncorrelated responses of transcriptome and translatome. Among these putative translationally regulated messages were most components of the mitochondrial ATPase. Increased polysome associations of corresponding messages and higher mitochondrial ATPase activities upon treatment confirmed the relevance for regulation of this macromolecular complex. Our results suggest the presence of highly sensitive translational regulatory networks that coordinate functionally related messages. These networks are preferentially activated for rapid adaptation of cells to minor environmental perturbations.
Heterotrophic culture of Chlorella protothecoides in various nitrogen sources for lipid production.	The influences of urea, yeast extract, and nitrate as the nitrogen source on heterotrophic growth of four strains of Chlorella protothecoides were investigated in 9-day feed-batch cultures. Biomass dry weight concentration (DWC) and lipid yield (LY) of the four strains in all media were compared. The highest LY in 9 days was 654 mg/L/day by UTEX 255 in 2.4 g/L KNO(3) medium with a biomass DWC of 11.7 g/L and lipid content of 50.5%. Using green autotrophic seeds instead of yellow heterotrophic seeds improved the biomass DWC (13.1 vs. 11.7 g/L), LY (850 vs. 654 mg/L/day), and lipid to glucose consumption ratio (0.607 vs. 0.162). Moreover, 17.0 g/L DWC and 489 mg/L/day LY were obtained from the sequentially mixed-nitrogen medium, and the lipid to glucose consumption ratio was improved to 0.197 from 0.162 in 2.4 g/L nitrate medium and from 0.108 in 4.2 g/L yeast extract medium in the first batch.
Sequential injection kinetic flow assay for monitoring glycerol in a sugar fermentation process by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	A sequential injection system to monitor glycerol in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae fermentation process was developed. The method relies on the rate of formation of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide in its reduced form (NADH, measured spectrophotometrically at 340 nm) from the reaction of glycerol with NAD(+) cofactor, catalysed by the enzyme glycerol dehydrogenase present in solution. This procedure enables the determination of glycerol between 0.046 and 0.46 g/l, (corresponding to yeast fermentation samples with concentrations up to 50 g/l) with good repeatability (relative standard deviation for n = 10 lower than 2.2% for three different samples) at a sampling frequency of 25/h. The detection and quantification limits using a miniaturised spectrophotometer were 0.13 and 0.44 mM, respectively. Reagent consumption was of 0.45 mumol NAD(+) and 1.8 microg enzyme per assay, and the waste production was 2.8 ml per determination. Results obtained for samples were in agreement with those obtained with a high-performance liquid chromatography method.
Involvement of ergosterol in tolerance to vanillin, a potential inhibitor of bioethanol fermentation, in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	A vanillin-tolerant strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was screened and its intracellular ergosterol levels were compared with several laboratory yeast strains to study the potential relationship between ergosterol content and vanillin tolerance. Saccharomyces cerevisiae NBRC1950 was selected as a vanillin-tolerant strain. Its ergosterol content was higher than those of the laboratory strains. The results of DNA microarray and quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that five genes involved in ergosterol biosynthesis (ERG28, HMG1, MCR1, ERG5, and ERG7) were upregulated in NBRC 1950 compared with strain X2180, suggesting that high expression of genes involved in ergosterol biosynthesis may cause high ergosterol content in strain NBRC 1950. The S. cerevisiae HX strain, which was a high-ergosterol-containing strain derived from X2180, was more tolerant to vanillin than the parental strain, suggesting that high ergosterol content may, in part, be responsible for vanillin tolerance. These findings provide a biotechnological basis for the molecular engineering of S. cerevisiae with increased tolerance to vanillin.
The lethal effects of some onolophosphate insecticides on yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Thre enolophosphate insecticides (chlorphenvinphos: 0-/-/2',4'-dichlorophenyl/-2-chlorovinyl/diethyl phosphate, bromphenvinphos: 0-/1-/2',4'-dichlorophenyl/-2-bromovinyl/diethyl phosphate, mebromvinphos: 0-/1-/2',4'-dichlorophenyl/-2-bromovinyl/dimethyl phosphate) have been tested for their biological activity in baker's yeast. The results indicate that the chemicals exert an immediate hibitory effect on amino acid transport system, respiration, fermentation and ell growth. Consequently the effect of precipitous cell death also occurred. Furthermore the direct destroying action of the studied chemicals on protoplast as also observed. The main cause of cell death is the development of membrane leakiness. It was found that the loss of sugar transport activity parallels the loss of cell viability. All the studied insecticides showed negligible netic activity.
Construction and validation of a yeast model system for studying in vivo the susceptibility to nucleoside analogues of DNA polymerase gamma allelic variants.	Mitochondrial dysfunctions have been observed in subjects treated with antiretroviral nucleoside analogues, such as stavudine, as they can interfere with the activity of DNA polymerase gamma. Recently, stavudine-induced mitochondrial toxicity was associated to POLG mutations R964C and E1143G. A yeast model system useful to evaluate the association between D4T toxicity and mutations in MIP1, the yeast ortholog of POLG, was constructed and validated as a tool for pharmacogenetics research. We showed that mutant Mip1p(R964C) and possibly Mip1p(E1143G) are more sensitive to stavudine, and that stavudine has the potential to cause mitochondrial toxicity in heterozygous subjects harboring recessive mutations.
A different mechanism for the inhibition of the carboxyltransferase domain of acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase by tepraloxydim.	Acetyl-CoA carboxylases (ACCs) are crucial metabolic enzymes and are attractive targets for drug discovery. Haloxyfop and tepraloxydim belong to two distinct classes of commercial herbicides and kill sensitive plants by inhibiting the carboxyltransferase (CT) activity of ACC. Our earlier structural studies showed that haloxyfop is bound near the active site of the CT domain, at the interface of its dimer, and a large conformational change in the dimer interface is required for haloxyfop binding. We report here the crystal structure at 2.3 A resolution of the CT domain of yeast ACC in complex with tepraloxydim. The compound has a different mechanism of inhibiting the CT activity compared to haloxyfop, as well as the mammalian ACC inhibitor CP-640186. Tepraloxydim probes a different region of the dimer interface and requires only small but important conformational changes in the enzyme, in contrast to haloxyfop. The binding mode of tepraloxydim explains the structure-activity relationship of these inhibitors, and provides a molecular basis for their distinct sensitivity to some of the resistance mutations, as compared to haloxyfop. Despite the chemical diversity between haloxyfop and tepraloxydim, the compounds do share two binding interactions to the enzyme, which may be important anchoring points for the development of ACC inhibitors.
Med8, Med18, and Med20 subunits of the Mediator head domain are interdependent upon each other for folding and complex formation.	We have studied folding and complex formation of the yeast Mediator head-module protein subunits Med8, Med18, and Med20. Using a combination of immunoprecipitation, far-UV circular dichroism, and fluorescence measurements on recombinantly expressed and denatured proteins that were allowed to renature separately or in different combinations, we found that Med8, Med18, and Med20 can fold in different ways to form both soluble monomeric proteins and different distinct subcomplexes. However, the concurrent presence of all three protein subunits during the renaturation process is required for proper folding and trimer complex formation.
Investigations on the role of base excision repair and non-homologous end-joining pathways in sodium selenite-induced toxicity and mutagenicity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Selenium (Se) belongs to nutrients that are essential for human health. Biological activity of this compound, however, mainly depends on its dose, with a potential of Se to induce detrimental effects at high doses. Although mechanisms lying behind detrimental effects of Se are poorly understood yet, they involve DNA damage induction. Consequently, DNA damage response and repair pathways may play a crucial role in cellular response to Se. Using Saccharomyces cerevisiae we showed that sodium selenite (SeL), an inorganic form of Se, can be toxic and mutagenic in this organism due to its ability to induce DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). Moreover, we reported that a spectrum of mutations induced by this compound in the stationary phase of growth is mainly represented by 1-4 bp deletions. Consequently, we proposed that SeL acts as an oxidizing agent in yeast producing oxidative damage to DNA. As short deletions could be anticipated to arise as a result of action of non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) and oxidative damage to DNA is primarily coped with base excision repair (BER), a contribution of these two pathways towards survival, DSB induction, mutation frequency and types of mutations following SeL exposure was examined in present study. First, we show that while NHEJ plays no role in repairing toxic DNA lesions induced by SeL, cells with impairment in BER are sensitized towards this compound. Of BER activities examined, those responsible for processing of 3'-blocking DNA termini seem to be the most crucial for manifestation of the toxic effects of SeL in yeast. Second, an impact of NHEJ and BER on DSB induction after SeL exposure turned to be inappreciable, as no increase in DNA double-strand breakage in NHEJ and BER single or NHEJ BER double mutant upon SeL exposure was observed. Finally, we demonstrate that impairment in both these pathways does not importantly change mutation frequency after SeL exposure and that NHEJ is not responsible for generation of short deletions after SeL treatment, as these were comparably induced in the wild-type and NHEJ-defective cells.
Rapamycin sensitivity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is mediated by a peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase related to human FK506-binding protein.	Rapamycin is a macrolide antifungal agent with structural similarity to FK506. It exhibits potent immunosuppressive properties analogous to those of both FK506 and cyclosporin A (CsA). Unlike FK506 and CsA, however, rapamycin does not inhibit the transcription of early T-cell activation genes, including interleukin-2, but instead appears to block downstream events leading to T-cell activation. FK506 and CsA receptor proteins (FKBP and cyclophilin, respectively) have been identified and shown to be distinct members of a class of enzymes that possess peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) activity. Despite the apparent differences in their mode of action, rapamycin and FK506 act as reciprocal antagonists in vivo and compete for binding to FKBP. As a means of rapidly identifying a target protein for rapamycin in vivo, we selected and genetically characterized rapamycin-resistant mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and isolated a yeast genomic fragment that confers drug sensitivity. We demonstrate that the resonse to rapamycin in yeast cells is mediated by a gene encoding a 114-amino-acid, approximately 13-kDa protein which has a high degree of sequence homology with human FKBP; we designated this gene RBP1 (for rapamycin-binding protein). The RBP1 protein (RBP) was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified to homogeneity, and shown to catalyze peptidyl-prolyl isomerization of a synthetic peptide substrate. PPIase activity was completely inhibited by rapamycin and FK506 but not by CsA, indicating that both macrolides bind to the recombinant protein. Expression of human FKBP in rapamycin-resistant mutants restored rapamycin sensitivity, indicating a functional equivalence between the yeast and human enzymes.
Atorvastatin-induced cell toxicity in yeast is linked to disruption of protein isoprenylation.	Statins, used to treat hypercholesterolemia, are one of the most frequently prescribed drug classes in the developed world. However, a significant proportion of users suffer symptoms of myotoxicity, and currently, the molecular mechanisms underlying myotoxicity remain ambiguous. In this study, Saccharomyces cerevisiae was exploited as a model system to gain further insight into the molecular mechanisms of atorvastatin toxicity. Atorvastatin-treated yeast cells display marked morphological deformities, have reduced cell viability and are highly vulnerable to perturbed mitochondrial function. Supplementation assays of atorvastatin-treated cells reveal that both loss of viability and mitochondrial dysfunction occur as a consequence of perturbation of the sterol synthesis pathway. This was further investigated by supplementing statin-treated cells with various metabolites of the sterol synthesis pathway that are believed to be essential for cell function. Ergosterol, coenzyme Q and a heme precursor were all ineffective in the prevention of statin-induced mitochondrial disruption and cell death. However, the addition of geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate and farnesyl pyrophosphate significantly restored cell viability, although these did not overcome petite induction. This highlights the pleiotropic nature of statin toxicity, but has established protein prenylation disruption as one of the principal mechanisms underlying statin-induced cell death in yeast.
Tyrosine phosphorylation by Src within the cavity of the adenine nucleotide translocase 1 regulates ADP/ATP exchange in mitochondria.	Phosphorylation of adenine nucleotide translocator 1 (ANT1) at residue Y194, which is part of the aromatic ladder located within the lumen of the carrier, critically regulates mitochondrial metabolism. Recent data support the concept that members of the Src family of nonreceptor tyrosine kinases are constitutively present in mitochondria and key to regulation of mitochondrial function. Herein, we demonstrate that site mutations of ANT1 (Y190-->F190, Y194-->F194) mimicking dephosphorylation of the aromatic ladder resulted in loss of oxidative growth and ADP/ATP exchange activity in respiration-incompetent yeast expressing mutant chimeric yN-hANT1. ANT1 is phosphorylated at Y194 by the Src family kinase members Src and Lck, and increased phosphorylation is tightly linked to reduced cell injury in preconditioned protected vs. unprotected cardiac mitochondria. Molecular dynamics simulations find the overall structure of the phosphorylated ANT1 stable, but with an increased steric flexibility in the region of the aromatic ladder, matrix loop m2, and four helix-linking regions. Combined with an analysis of the putative cytosolic salt bridge network, we reason that the effect of phosphorylation on transport is likely due to an accelerated transition between the main two conformational states (c<-->m) of the carrier during the transport cycle. Since "aromatic signatures" are typical for other mitochondrial carrier proteins with important biological functions, our results may be more general and applicable to these carriers.
Proofreading in vivo: editing of homocysteine by methionyl-tRNA synthetase in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Homocysteine thiolactone is a product of an error-editing reaction, catalyzed by Escherichia coli methionyl-tRNA synthetase, which prevents incorporation of homocysteine into tRNA and protein, both in vitro and in vivo. Here, the thiolactone is also shown to occur in cultures of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In yeast, the thiolactone is made from homocysteine in a reaction catalyzed by methionyl-tRNA synthetase. One molecule of homocysteine is edited as thiolactone per 500 molecules of methionine incorporated into protein. Homocysteine, added exogenously to the medium or overproduced by some yeast mutants, is detrimental to cell growth. The cost of homocysteine editing in yeast is minimized by the presence of a pathway leading from homocysteine to cysteine, which keeps intracellular homocysteine at low levels. These results not only directly demonstrate that editing of errors in amino acid selection by methionyl-tRNA synthetase operates in vivo in yeast but also establish the importance of proofreading mechanisms in a eukaryotic organism.
Microarray analysis of p-anisaldehyde-induced transcriptome of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	p-Anisaldehyde (4-methoxybenzaldehyde), an extract from Pimpinella anisum L. seeds, is a potential novel preservative. To reveal the possible action mechanism of p-anisaldehyde against microorganisms, yeast-based commercial oligonucleotide microarrays were used to analyze the genome-wide transcriptional changes in response to p-anisaldehyde. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR was performed for selected genes to verify the microarray results. We interpreted our microarray data with the clustering tool, T-profiler. Analysis of microarray data revealed that p-anisaldehyde induced the expression of genes related to sulphur assimilation, aromatic aldehydes metabolism, and secondary metabolism, which demonstrated that the addition of p-anisaldehyde may influence the normal metabolism of aromatic aldehydes. This genome-wide transcriptomics approach revealed first insights into the response of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (S. cerevisiae) to p-anisaldehyde challenge.
The yeast aquaglyceroporin Fps1p is a bidirectional arsenite channel.	The stress-activated kinase Hog1p mediates arsenic tolerance by decreasing arsenite influx through the aquaglyceroporin Fps1p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Unexpectedly, we found that overexpression of FPS1 increased arsenite tolerance suggesting a physiological role of Fps1p in arsenic detoxification. Consistently, during arsenite treatment transcription of FPS1 gene was strongly upregulated, while Fps1p was not degraded and remained localized to the plasma membrane. Moreover, deletion of FPS1 gene resulted in arsenate sensitivity. Finally, transport experiments revealed that Fps1p in concert with the arsenite transporter Acr3p mediates arsenite efflux.
Ref2, a regulatory subunit of the yeast protein phosphatase 1, is a novel component of cation homoeostasis.	Maintenance of cation homoeostasis is a key process for any living organism. Specific mutations in Glc7, the essential catalytic subunit of yeast protein phosphatase 1, result in salt and alkaline pH sensitivity, suggesting a role for this protein in cation homoeostasis. We screened a collection of Glc7 regulatory subunit mutants for altered tolerance to diverse cations (sodium, lithium and calcium) and alkaline pH. Among 18 candidates, only deletion of REF2 (RNA end formation 2) yielded increased sensitivity to these conditions, as well as to diverse organic toxic cations. The Ref2F374A mutation, which renders it unable to bind Glc7, did not rescue the salt-related phenotypes of the ref2 strain, suggesting that Ref2 function in cation homoeostasis is mediated by Glc7. The ref2 deletion mutant displays a marked decrease in lithium efflux, which can be explained by the inability of these cells to fully induce the Na+-ATPase ENA1 gene. The effect of lack of Ref2 is additive to that of blockage of the calcineurin pathway and might disrupt multiple mechanisms controlling ENA1 expression. ref2 cells display a striking defect in vacuolar morphogenesis, which probably accounts for the increased calcium levels observed under standard growth conditions and the strong calcium sensitivity of this mutant. Remarkably, the evidence collected indicates that the role of Ref2 in cation homoeostasis may be unrelated to its previously identified function in the formation of mRNA via the APT (for associated with Pta1) complex.
Genetic analysis of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome I: on the role of mutagen specificity in delimiting the set of genes identifiable using temperature-sensitive-lethal mutations.	In a previous attempt to identify as many as possible of the essential genes on Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome I, temperature-sensitive (Ts-) lethal mutations that had been induced by ethyl methane-sulfonate or nitrosoguanidine were analyzed. Thirty-two independently isolated mutations that mapped to chromosome I identified only three complementation groups, all of which had been known previously. In contrast, molecular analyses of segments of the chromosome have suggested the presence of numerous additional essential genes. In order to assess the degree to which problems of mutagen specificity had limited the set of genes detected using Ts- lethal mutations, we isolated a new set of such mutations after mutagenesis with UV or nitrogen mustard. Surprisingly, of 21 independently isolated mutations that mapped to chromosome I, 17 were again in the same three complementation groups as identified previously, and two of the remaining four mutations were apparently in a known gene involved in cysteine biosynthesis. Of the remaining two mutations, one was in one of the essential genes identified in the molecular analyses, and the other was too leaky to be mapped. These results suggest that only a minority of the essential genes in yeast can be identified using Ts- lethal mutations, regardless of the mutagen used, and thus emphasize the need to use multiple genetic strategies in the investigation of cellular processes.
Arsenate and phosphate interaction in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	In the present study, arsenate (As(V)) and phosphate (P(V)) interactions were investigated in growth, uptake and RNA content in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). Yeast grew slowly with As(V) concentrations increasing in the medium. However, the maximal population density was almost the same among different As(V) treatments. It was in the late log phase that yeast growth was augmented by low As(V), which was maybe due to the fact that methionine metabolism was stressed by vitamin B6 deprivation, so As(V) treatments did not affect maximal population density. However, with P (V) concentrations increasing, the maximal population density increased. Therefore, the maximal population density was determined by P (V) concentrations in the medium but not by As (V) concentrations in the medium. Ycfl p(a tonoplast transpor) transports As(GS)3 into the vacuole, but arsenic(As) remaining in the thalli was 1.27% with As(V) exposure for 60 h, from which it can be speculated that the percentage of As transported into vacuole should be lower than 1.27%. However, the percentage of As pumped out of cell was 71.49% with As (V) exposure for 68 h. Although two pathways (extrusion and sequestration) were involved in As detoxification in yeast, the extrusion pathway played a major role in As detoxification. RNA content was the highest in the early-log phase and was reduced by As(V).
Identification of protein kinase disruptions as suppressors of the calcium sensitivity of S. cerevisiae Deltaptp2 Deltamsg5 protein phosphatase double disruptant.	The double disruptant of the S. cerevisiae protein phosphatase (PPase) genes, PTP2 (phosphotyrosine-specific PPase) and MSG5 (phosphotyrosine and phosphothreonine/serine-PPase) causes calcium-sensitive growth (Cas). Previous study using Fluorescent-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis showed that this growth defect with calcium occurs at G1-S transition in the cell cycle. We discovered that six non-essential protein kinase (PKase) disruptions (Deltabck1, Deltamkk1, Deltaslt2/Deltampk1, Deltamck1, Deltassk2 and Deltayak1) suppressed the Cas-phenotype of the Deltaptp2 Deltamsg5 double disruptant. Bck1p, Mkk1p and Slt2p are components of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade of cell wall integrity pathway (Slt2 pathway), and Mck1p is its down regulator. Ssk2p is the MAPK kinase kinase of the high-osmolarity glycerol (HOG) pathway, while Yak1p is a negative regulator for the cAMP-dependent PKA pathway. FACS analysis revealed that only the disruption of Deltassk2 and Deltayak1 but not Deltabck1, Deltamkk1, Deltaslt2 and Deltamck1 was able to suppress the delayed G1-S transition, suggesting that suppression of the growth defect is not always accompanied by suppression of the G1-S transition delay. The discovery of these PKases as suppressors revealed that in addition to the previously anticipated Slt2 pathway, HOG, Yak1p and Mck1p regulatory pathways may also be involved in the calcium sensitivity of the Deltaptp2 Deltamsg5 double disruptant.
Effect of vitamin A treatment on superoxide dismutase-deficient yeast strains.	Vitamin A (Vit A) is widely suggested to be protective against oxidative stress. However, different studies have been demonstrated the pro-oxidant effects of retinoids in several experimental models. In this work, we used the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model organism to study the Vit A effects on superoxide dismutase (SOD)-deficient yeast strains. We report here that Vit A (10, 20 and 40 mg/ml) decreases the survival of exponentially growing yeast cells, especially in strains deficient in CuZnSOD (sod1Delta) and CuZnSOD/MnSOD (sod1Deltasod2Delta). We also observed the protective effect of vitamin E against the Vit A-induced toxicity. Possible adaptation effects induced by sub-lethal oxidative stress were monitored by pre-, co- and post-treatment with the oxidative agent paraquat. The enzymatic activities of catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and the total glutathione content were determined after Vit A treatment. Our results showed that CuZnSOD represents an important defence against Vit A-generated oxidative damage. In SOD-deficient strains, the main defence against Vit A-produced reactive oxygen species (ROS) is GPx. However, the induction of GPx activity is not sufficient to prevent the Vit A-induced cell death in these mutants in exponential phase growth.
Orm family proteins mediate sphingolipid homeostasis.	Despite the essential roles of sphingolipids both as structural components of membranes and critical signalling molecules, we have a limited understanding of how cells sense and regulate their levels. Here we reveal the function in sphingolipid metabolism of the ORM genes (known as ORMDL genes in humans)-a conserved gene family that includes ORMDL3, which has recently been identified as a potential risk factor for childhood asthma. Starting from an unbiased functional genomic approach in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we identify Orm proteins as negative regulators of sphingolipid synthesis that form a conserved complex with serine palmitoyltransferase, the first and rate-limiting enzyme in sphingolipid production. We also define a regulatory pathway in which phosphorylation of Orm proteins relieves their inhibitory activity when sphingolipid production is disrupted. Changes in ORM gene expression or mutations to their phosphorylation sites cause dysregulation of sphingolipid metabolism. Our work identifies the Orm proteins as critical mediators of sphingolipid homeostasis and raises the possibility that sphingolipid misregulation contributes to the development of childhood asthma.
Transformations of inorganic mercury by Candida albicans and Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Candida albicans were incubated with 0.25, 0.5, or 0.75 micrograms of Hg (as HgCl2) per ml of Nelson's medium in the presence of trace amounts of oxygen at 28 degrees C for 12 days. Two control media were used, one without added Hg and one without yeast inoculum. Yeast cell growth was estimated after 1, 2, 3, and 8 days of incubation. The contents of organomercury in the system and of elemental mercury released from the media and collected in traps were determined at the end of the experiments. The results were as follows. (i) C. albicans was the more mercury-resistant species, but both yeast species failed to grow in the media containing 0.75 micrograms of Hg per ml. (ii) The amounts of organomercury produced by the two species were proportional to the amount of HgCl2 added to the medium. In all cases C. albicans produced considerably larger amounts of methylmercury than S. cerevisiae. (iii) The amounts of elemental Hg produced were inversely proportional to the HgCl2 level added in the case of S. cerevisiae but were all similar in the case of C. albicans. (iv) Neither organomercury nor elemental Hg was produced in any of the control media.
Effects of growth temperature on toxicity of T-2 toxin and roridin A to yeast.	In yeasts, growth temperature is known to affect the membrane phospholipid content. The effect of temperature on the growth inhibition of Kluyveromyces marxianus and Saccharomyces cerevisiae by the trichothecene mycotoxins, T-2 toxin and roridin A, was investigated. Examination of EC50 values for T-2 toxin and roridin A showed that these toxins were least inhibitory to both yeasts at 30 and 25 degrees C, respectively. Increasing or decreasing growth temperature from these temperatures gradually increased the inhibitory effect of the trichothecene mycotoxins. Temperature may affect the toxicity of the trichothecenes to the yeasts by regulating the composition of yeast cell membranes.
One-sided action of amphotericin B on cholesterol-containing membranes is determined by its self-association in the medium.	The inducement of K+ permeability through membranes by the polyene antibiotic amphotericin B (AmB) has been analyzed as a measure of the antibiotic activity. Dose-response curves have been obtained with cholesterol- and ergosterol-containing egg yolk phosphatidylcholine large unilamellar vesicles (LUVs), human erythrocytes, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells. Conductance changes induced by AmB in sterol-containing planar bilayer membranes have also been studied. AmB self-association in aqueous buffer was determined by circular dichroism (CD) as a function of the antibiotic concentration. Electronic absorption and CD spectra of AmB were recorded in the presence of LUVs. For given AmB concentrations, the extent of permeability inducement is dependent on the lipid concentration. On the other hand, for cholesterol-containing LUVs or erythrocytes, a critical AmB concentration had to be reached before any permeability is observed. Independent of lipid concentration, this concentration was directly related to antibiotic self-association in the aqueous buffer. The same observation was made for erythrocytes and nystatin. The AmB absorption and CD spectra were totally different for ergosterol- and cholesterol-containing LUVs. Formation of single channels by one-sided addition of AmB could be observed only in ergosterol-containing membranes. These data lead us to propose that the permeability pathways induced by amphotericin B or nystatin, in ergosterol- and in cholesterol-containing membranes, are of different natures. In the latter case the antibiotics are only active, by single-sided addition, in the self-associated form. These findings offer important clues for the design of less toxic derivatives of AmB: they should have a low degree of self-association in water.
Yeast nucleosomal particles: structural and transcriptional properties.	Yeast nucleosomal core particles have been characterized by thermal denaturation, circular dichroism, and digestion with DNase I and with trypsin. Practically all nucleosomal DNA melts in one transition centered at 70 degrees C, and the circular dichroism spectrum is displaced to lower wavelengths as compared to that corresponding to chicken nucleosomal cores. The susceptibility of yeast nucleosomal particles to dissociation by salt is significantly higher than that of chicken nucleosomal cores, a substantial dissociation being observed at 0.5 M NaCl. Treatment of yeast nucleosomal particles with the amino group reagent dimethylmaleic anhydride is accompanied by selective release of histones H2A and H2B. The results indicate not large but significant structural differences between yeast and chicken nucleosomal cores. However, the in vitro transcription properties of complete and H2A.H2B-deficient nucleosomal cores are similar in the two kinds of particles: the histone octamer blocks RNA synthesis, this block being eliminated in part by the partial loss of histones H2A and H2B.
Significance of C-terminal cysteine modifications to the biological activity of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae a-factor mating pheromone.	We have undertaken total synthesis of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae a-factor (NH2-YIIKGVFWDPAC[S-farnesyl]-COOCH3) and several Cys-12 analogs to determine the significance of S-farnesylation and carboxy-terminal methyl esterification to the biological activity of this lipopeptide mating pheromone. Replacement of either the farnesyl group or the carboxy-terminal methyl ester by a hydrogen atom resulted in marked reduction but not total loss of bioactivity as measured by a variety of assays. Moreover, both the farnesyl and methyl ester groups could be replaced by other substituents to produce biologically active analogs. The bioactivity of a-factor decreased as the number of prenyl units on the cysteine sulfur decreased from three to one, and an a-factor analog having the S-farnesyl group replaced by an S-hexadecanyl group was more active than an S-methyl a-factor analog. Thus, with two types of modifications, a-factor activity increased as the S-alkyl group became bulkier and more hydrophobic. MATa cells having deletions of the a-factor structural genes (mfal1 mfa2 mutants) were capable of mating with either sst2 or wild-type MAT alpha cells in the presence of exogenous a-factor, indicating that it is not absolutely essential for MATa cells to actively produce a-factor in order to mate. Various a-factor analogs were found to partially restore mating to these strains as well, and their relative activities in the mating restoration assay were similar to their activities in the other assays used in this study. Mating was not restored by addition of exogenous a-factor to a cross of a wild-type MAT alpha strain and a MATaste6 mutant, indicating a role of the STE6 gene product in mating in addition to its secretion of a-factor.
Protein synthesis requirements for nuclear division, cytokinesis, and cell separation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Protein synthesis inhibitors have often been used to identify regulatory steps in cell division. We used cell division cycle mutants of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and two chemical inhibitors of translation to investigate the requirements for protein synthesis for completing landmark events after the G1 phase of the cell cycle. We show, using cdc2, cdc6, cdc7, cdc8, cdc17 (38 degrees C), and cdc21 (also named tmp1) mutants, that cells arrested in S phase complete DNA synthesis but cannot complete nuclear division if protein synthesis is inhibited. In contrast, we show, using cdc16, cdc17 (36 degrees C), cdc20, cdc23, and nocodazole treatment, that cells that arrest in the G2 stage complete nuclear division in the absence of protein synthesis. Protein synthesis is required late in the cell cycle to complete cytokinesis and cell separation. These studies show that there are requirements for protein synthesis in the cell cycle, after G1, that are restricted to two discrete intervals.
Genotoxicity of the boldine aporphine alkaloid in prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms.	The aporphine alkaloid boldine, present in Peumus boldus (boldo-do-Chile) widely used all over the world, was tested for the presence of genotoxic, mutagenic and recombinogenic activities in microorganisms. This alkaloid did not show genotoxic activity with or without metabolic activation in the SOS chromotest and Ames tester strains TA100, TA98 and TA102. It was not able to induce point and frameshift mutations in haploid Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells. However, mitotic recombinational events such as crossing-over and gene conversion were weakly induced in diploid yeast cells by this alkaloid. Also, boldine was able to induce weakly cytoplasmic 'petite' mutation in haploid yeast cells.
Effect of L-azetidine 2-carboxilic acid on the activity of the general amino-acid permease from Saccharomyces cerevisiae var. ellipsoideus.	Addition of the L-proline analogue L-azetidine 2-carboxylic acid to growing cultures of Saccharomyces cerevisiae var. ellipsoideus promoted fast deactivation of the general aminoacid permease, measured as L-valine uptake, without an immediate decrease in the growth rate. Cells preincubated with the analogue for 3 h were unable to restore either growth ability or general aminoacid permease activity in analogue-free medium. Eadie-Hofstee plots of L-valine uptake in the presence of the analogue are consistent with a strong reduction in the number of active molecules of the general amino-acid permease located in the plasma membrane. Inhibitory effects on protein synthesis were seen after preincubations of the yeast with the analogue for 3 h although a 30 min preincubation had no effect.
Reduction in ribosomal protein synthesis is sufficient to explain major effects on ribosome production after short-term TOR inactivation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Ribosome synthesis depends on nutrient availability, sensed by the target of rapamycin (TOR) signaling pathway in eukaryotes. TOR inactivation affects ribosome biogenesis at the level of rRNA gene transcription, expression of ribosomal proteins (r-proteins) and biogenesis factors, preribosome processing, and transport. Here, we demonstrate that upon TOR inactivation, levels of newly synthesized ribosomal subunits drop drastically before the integrity of the RNA polymerase I apparatus is severely impaired but in good correlation with a sharp decrease in r-protein production. Inhibition of translation by cycloheximide mimics the rRNA maturation defect observed immediately after TOR inactivation. Both cycloheximide addition and the depletion of individual r-proteins also reproduce TOR-dependent nucleolar entrapment of specific ribosomal precursor complexes. We suggest that shortage of newly synthesized r-proteins after short-term TOR inactivation is sufficient to explain most of the observed effects on ribosome production.
Yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae devoid of Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase as a cellular model to study acrylamide toxicity.	Acrylamide is known as a cytotoxic and genotoxic component of starch-containing heat-processed food. We demonstrate that yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae may be used as a cellular model to examine the biochemical mechanisms of acrylamide toxicity. We found that acrylamide causes impairment of growth of the yeast deficient in Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (sod1) in a concentration-dependent manner. This growth inhibitory effect is not due to cell death but to decreased cell vitality and proliferative capacity. Treatment of the sod1 yeast with acrylamide induced generation of increased reactive oxygen species and depletion of glutathione. The toxicity of acrylamide for yeast cells may be abolished by antioxidants (ascorbate, cysteine, N-acetylcysteine, glutathione and dithiothreitol) or lowering oxygen content in the atmosphere.
Bax activation by engagement with, then release from, the BH3 binding site of Bcl-xL.	Bcl-2 homologues (such as Bcl-x(L)) promote survival in part through sequestration of "activator" BH3-only proteins (such as Puma), preventing them from directly activating Bax. It is thus assumed that inhibition of interactions between activators and Bcl-x(L) is a prerequisite for small molecules to antagonize Bcl-x(L) and induce cell death. The biological properties, described here of a terphenyl-based alpha-helical peptidomimetic inhibitor of Bcl-x(L) attest that displacement of Bax from Bcl-x(L) is also critical. Terphenyl 14 triggers Bax-dependent but Puma-independent cell death, disrupting Bax/Bcl-x(L) interactions without affecting Puma/Bcl-x(L) interactions. In cell-free assays, binding of inactive Bax to Bcl-x(L), followed by its displacement from Bcl-x(L) by terphenyl 14, produces mitochondrially permeabilizing Bax molecules. Moreover, the peptidomimetic kills yeast cells that express Bax and Bcl-x(L), and it uses Bax-binding Bcl-x(L) to induce mammalian cell death. Likewise, ectopic expression of Bax in yeast and mammalian cells enhances sensitivity to another Bcl-x(L) inhibitor, ABT-737, when Bcl-x(L) is present. Thus, the interaction of Bcl-x(L) with Bax paradoxically primes Bax at the same time it keeps Bax activity in check, and displacement of Bax from Bcl-x(L) triggers an apoptotic signal by itself. This mechanism might contribute to the clinical efficiency of Bcl-x(L) inhibitors.
Bismuth heterocycles based on a diphenyl sulfone scaffold: synthesis and substituent effect on the antifungal activity against Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	A series of heterocyclic organobismuth(III) compounds 2 [ClBi(5-R-C6H(3)-2-SO2C6H(4)-1'-): R=Me, Ph, MeO, Cl, H, t-Bu, CF3, F, Me2N] was synthesized in order to study the relative importance of structure and specific substitutions in relation to their lipophilicity and antifungal activity against the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A clear structure-activity relationship between the size of the inhibition zone and the value of ClogP was found for 2. These results suggest that the higher the lipophilicity, the lower the antifungal activity. Thus, 2e (R=H) and 2h (R=F), which had ClogP values of 1.18 and 1.45, respectively, were most active. In contrast, 2b (R=Ph) and 2f (R=t-Bu) had ClogP values of 3.06 and 3.00, respectively, and exhibited no antifungal activity. Compound 6b ClBi[5-(OH)C6H(3)-2-SO(2)-5'-(OH)C6H(3)-1'-] had an estimated ClogP value of 0.81 but exhibited only low activity in spite of its low ClogP value, suggesting that such a considerable decrease in lipophilicity lowers inhibition activity. Bismuth carboxylate 7b derived from p-nitrobenzoic acid and 2e exhibited inhibition activity comparable to those of 2e and 2h despite its higher lipophilicity (ClogP=2.68).
Increase of ethanol tolerance of Saccharomyces cerevisiae by error-prone whole genome amplification.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae was transformed for higher ethanol tolerance by error-prone whole genome amplification. The resulting PCR products were transformed back to the parental strain for homologous recombination to create a library of mutants with the perturbed genomic networks. A few rounds of transformation led to the isolation of mutants that grew in 9% (v/v) ethanol and 100 g glucose l(-1) compared to untransformed yeast which grew only at 6% (v/v) ethanol and 100 g glucose l(-1).
Use of yeast chemigenomics and COXEN informatics in preclinical evaluation of anticancer agents.	Bladder cancer metastasis is virtually incurable with current platinum-based chemotherapy. We used the novel COXEN informatic approach for in silico drug discovery and identified NSC-637993 and NSC-645809 (C1311), both imidazoacridinones, as agents with high-predicted activity in human bladder cancer. Because even highly effective monotherapy is unlikely to cure most patients with metastasis and NSC-645809 is undergoing clinical trials in other tumor types, we sought to develop the basis for use of C1311 in rational combination with other agents in bladder cancer. Here, we demonstrate in 40 human bladder cancer cells that the in vitro cytotoxicity profile for C1311 correlates with that of NSC-637993 and compares favorably to that of standard of care chemotherapeutics. Using genome-wide patterns of synthetic lethality of C1311 with open reading frame knockouts in budding yeast, we determined that combining C1311 with a taxane could provide mechanistically rational combinations. To determine the preclinical relevance of these yeast findings, we evaluated C1311 singly and in doublet combination with paclitaxel in human bladder cancer in the in vivo hollow fiber assay and observed efficacy. By applying COXEN to gene expression data from 40 bladder cancer cell lines and 30 human tumors with associated clinical response data to platinum-based chemotherapy, we provide evidence that signatures of C1311 sensitivity exist within nonresponders to this regimen. Coupling COXEN and yeast chemigenomics provides rational combinations with C1311 and tumor genomic signatures that can be used to select bladder cancer patients for clinical trials with this agent.
Severe ethanol stress induces assembly of stress granules in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Stress granules (SGs) and processing bodies (P bodies) are cytoplasmic domains and play a role in the control of translation and mRNA turnover in mammalian cells subjected to environmental stress. Recent studies have revealed that SGs also form in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae in response to glucose depletion and robust heat shock. However, information about the types of stress that cause budding yeast SGs is quite limited. Here we demonstrate that severe ethanol stress generates budding yeast SGs in a manner independent of the phosphorylation of eIF2. The concentration that generated budding yeast SGs (>10%) was higher than that causing P bodies (>6%), and P bodies were assembled prior to SGs. As well as mammalian SGs, the assembly of budding yeast SGs under ethanol stress was blocked by cycloheximide. On the other hand, the budding yeast SGs caused by ethanol stress contained eIF3c but not eIF3a and eIF3b, although the eIF3 complex is a core constituent of mammalian SGs. Moreover, null mutants (pbp1, pub1 and tif4632) with a strong reduction in SG formation did not resume proliferation after the elimination of ethanol stress, indicating that the formation of budding yeast SGs might play a role in sufficient recovery from ethanol stress.
Lehualides E-K, cytotoxic metabolites from the Tongan marine sponge Plakortis sp.	Spectroscopy-guided chemical analysis of a marine sponge from the genus Plakortis, collected in Tonga, yielded seven new metabolites of polyketide origin, lehualides E-K (5-11), four of which incorporate various sulfur functionalities. The structures of compounds 5-11 were elucidated by interpretation of spectroscopic data and spectral comparison with model compounds. The biological activities of compounds 6-9 were investigated against human promyeloid leukemic HL-60 cells and two yeast strains, wild-type and a drug-sensitive mutant.
Low ergosterol content in yeast adh1 mutant enhances chitin maldistribution and sensitivity to paraquat-induced oxidative stress.	Alcohol dehydrogenases catalyse the reversible oxidation of alcohols to aldehydes or ketones, with concomitant reduction of NAD(+) or NADP(+) . Adh1p is responsible for the reduction of acetaldehyde to ethanol, while Adh2p catalyses the reverse reaction, the oxidation of ethanol to acetaldehyde. Lack of Adh1p shifts the cellular redox balance towards excess NADH/NADPH and acetaldehyde, while absence of Adh2p does the opposite. Yeast mutant adh1 had a slow growth rate, whereas adh2 grew like the isogenic wild-type (WT) during prediauxic shift fermentative metabolism. After 48 h WT and mutants reached the same number of viable cells. When exponentially growing (LOG) cells were exposed to calcofluor white, only mutant adh1 displayed an irregular deposition of chitin. Quantitative analyses of both LOG and stationary-phase cells showed that adh1 mutant contained significantly less ergosterol than cells of WT and adh2 mutant, whereas the erg3 mutant contained extremely low ergosterol pools. Both adh1 and adh2 mutants showed higher-than-WT resistance to heat shock and to H(2) O(2) but had WT resistance when exposed to ultraviolet (UV) light and the DNA cross-linking agent diepoxyoctane, indicating normal DNA repair capacity. Mutant adh1 was specifically sensitive to acetaldehyde and to membrane peroxidizing paraquat. Our results link the pleiotropic phenotype of adh1 mutants to low pools of ergosterol and to reductive stress, and introduce the two new phenotypes, resistance to heat shock and to H(2) O(2) , for the adh2 mutant, most probably related to increased ROS production in mitochondria, which leads to the induction of oxidative stress protection.
UV and arsenate toxicity: a specific and sensitive yeast bioluminescence assay.	We describe a Saccharomyces cerevisiae bioluminescence assay for UV and arsenate in which bacterial luciferase genes are regulated by the promoter of the yeast gene, UFO1. UFO1 encodes the F-box subunit of the Skp1Cdc53F-box protein ubiquitin ligase complex and is induced by DNA damage and by arsenate. We engineered the UFO1 promoter into an existing yeast bioreporter that employs human genes for detection of steroid hormone-disrupting compounds in water bodies. Our analysis indicates that use of an endogenous yeast promoter in different mutant backgrounds allows discrimination between different environmental signals. The UFO1-engineered yeast give a robust bioluminescence response to UVB and can be used for evaluating UV protective sunscreens. They are also effective in detecting extremely low concentrations of arsenate, particularly in pdr5 mutants that lack a mechanism to extrude toxic chemicals; however, they do not respond to cadmium or mercury. Combined use of endogenous yeast promoter elements and mutants of stress response pathways may facilitate development of high-specificity yeast bioreporters able to discriminate between closely related chemicals present together in the environment.
Structural analysis of compounds with actions similar to local anesthetics and antipsychotic phenothiazines in yeast.	Local anesthetics and antipsychotic phenothiazines cause a rapid shutdown of both actin polarization and translation initiation in yeast cells, like some environmental stresses. These compounds all have an amphiphilic structure, surfactant activity and the ability to lyse yeast cells. To elucidate the structures responsible for the shutdown activity and cell lysis, we investigated a variety of amphiphiles. In the hydrophobic region, the straight alkyl structure was sufficient for the shutdown of actin polarization and translational initiation. In the hydrophilic region of the straight alkyl compounds, cationic trimethyl ammonium (TMA) and non-ionic hydroxyl structure (alcohols) shut down both reactions, while an anionic structure, sulphate, with a long alkyl chain (C6) shut down actin polarization only. On the compounds that shut down both reactions, including the clinical drugs, TMA compounds and alcohols, the potencies of shutdown and lysis exponentially increased with increasing the number of carbons in the hydrophobic region, whereas safety was affected by the structures of both hydrophilic and hydrophobic regions. These results indicate that the yeast system can easily evaluate clinical drugs, and provide a structural basis for designing compounds to shut down intracellular reactions.
Distinct response of yeast ribosomes to a miscoding event during translation.	Numerous mechanisms have evolved to control the accuracy of translation, including a recently discovered retrospective quality control mechanism in bacteria. This quality control mechanism is sensitive to perturbations in the codon:anticodon interaction in the P site of the ribosome that trigger a dramatic loss of fidelity in subsequent tRNA and release factor selection events in the A site. These events ultimately lead to premature termination of translation in response to an initial miscoding error. In this work, we extend our investigations of this mechanism to an in vitro reconstituted Saccharomyces cerevisiae translation system. We report that yeast ribosomes do not respond to mismatches in the P site by loss of fidelity in subsequent substrate recognition events. We conclude that retrospective editing, as initially characterized in Escherichia coli, does not occur in S. cerevisiae. These results highlight potential mechanistic differences in the functional core of highly conserved ribosomes.
Expression of aldehyde dehydrogenase 6 reduces inhibitory effect of furan derivatives on cell growth and ethanol production in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Yeast dehydrogenases and reductases were overexpressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae D452-2 to detoxify 2-furaldehyde (furfural) and 5-hydroxymethyl furaldehyde (HMF), two potent toxic chemicals present in acid-hydrolyzed cellulosic biomass, and hence improve cell growth and ethanol production. Among those enzymes, aldehyde dehydrogenase 6 (ALD6) played the dual roles of direct oxidation of furan derivatives and supply of NADPH cofactor to their reduction reactions. Batch fermentation of S. cerevisiae D452-2/pH-ALD6 in the presence of 2g/L furfural and 0.5 g/L HMF resulted in 20-30% increases in specific growth rate, ethanol concentration and ethanol productivity, compared with those of the wild type strain. It was proposed that overexpression of ALD6 could recover the yeast cell metabolism and hence increase ethanol production from lignocellulosic biomass containing furan-derived inhibitors.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae vaginitis: microbiology and in vitro antifungal susceptibility.	Genitourinary infections by Saccharomyces cerevisiae are rare. Here, we describe eight S. cerevisiae vulvovaginitis episodes where molecular (Affirm VPIII) and conventional microbiological methods (culture and carbohydrate assimilation) have proven to be inadequate for diagnostic purposes. DNA sequencing allowed the correct identification of the pathogen. All isolates were susceptible to most antifungal agents, with two of them also found to be susceptible-dose-dependent to itraconazole.
Global analysis for functional residues of histone variant Htz1 using the comprehensive point mutant library.	Histone variants perform unique functions and are deposited onto DNA by mechanisms distinct from those of canonical histones. The H2A variant, H2A.Z, also known as Htz1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is not uniformly distributed across the genome but facilitates transcriptional activation at target gene promoters and anti-silencing at heterochromatin loci. Htz1 is also involved in DNA replication, DNA repair, chromosome segregation and cell cycle control. Its sequence identity to canonical H2A is only 60%, and it is likely that the nonconserved residues are responsible for Htz1-specific functions. However, precise roles of these variant-specific residues are not well understood. To gain insights into the molecular basis underlying the functional differences between canonical and variant histones, 117 alanine-scanning point mutants of Htz1 were constructed for this study, and chemical genetic screens were carried out. Consequently, seven Htz1 residues that conferred one or more abnormal phenotypes when mutated were identified. Based on primary sequence and functional conservation between H2A and Htz1, two of these residues (F32 and I109) appear to have an Htz1-specific role, whereas the rest seem to have functions shared between H2A and Htz1. This study provides a useful resource for future investigations into functional convergence and divergence between canonical and variant histones.
Microarray analysis for Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	In this protocol, gene expression in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) is changed after exposure to oxidative stress induced by the addition of hydrogen peroxide (HO), an oxidizing agent. In the experiment, yeast is grown for 48 hours in 1/2X YPD broth containing 3X glucose. The culture is split into a control and treated group. The experiment culture is treated with 0.5 mM HO in Hanks Buffered Saline (HBSS) for 1 hour. The control culture is treated with HBSS only. Total RNA is extracted from both cultures and is converted to a biotin-labeled cRNA product through a multistep process. The final synthesis product is taken back to the UVM Microarray Core Facility and hybridized to the Affymetrix yeast GeneChips. The resulting gene expression data are uploaded into bioinformatics data analysis software.
Systematic mutational analysis of the intracellular regions of yeast Gap1 permease.	The yeast general amino acid permease Gap1 is a convenient model for studying the intracellular trafficking of membrane proteins. Present at the plasma membrane when the nitrogen source is poor, it undergoes ubiquitin-dependent endocytosis and degradation upon addition of a good nitrogen source, e.g., ammonium. It comprises 12 transmembrane domains (TM) flanked by cytosol-facing N- and C-terminal tails (NT, CT). The NT of Gap1 contains the acceptor lysines for ubiquitylation and its CT includes a sequence essential to exit from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER).
Concentration and application order effects of sodium benzoate and eugenol mixtures on the growth inhibition of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Zygosaccharomyces bailii.	Growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Zygosaccharomyces bailii cells was monitored in the presence of sodium benzoate and eugenol alone or combined. The two antimicrobials' concentration, addition order, and timing were varied to determine and quantify any additive inhibitory effect on the yeasts. The yeast growth was also followed in the presence of ethanol, which served as solubilizer, at pertinent concentrations. The growth patterns are depicted as adjusted optical density compared with time curves. They all had sigmoid shape, described mathematically by a shifted logistic model that had an almost perfect fit to the data. The model's 3 parameters accounted for the curve's asymptote, the location of its inflection point and slope, which are rough measures of the overall growth level and its degree of suppression, the time to reach the peak growth rate and its retardation, and the overall growth rate, respectively. Maximum growth inhibition was achieved when the sodium benzoate and eugenol were administered together or alone in full dose. When each was administered alone but in 2 half dose additions, their efficacy dropped. When they were used together but added sequentially with a 24 h pause, their administration order had a noticeable effect on the treatment's efficacy, which depended on their respective concentrations. These observations are presented in a slightly modified version of the "hurdle" ideogram. They suggest that sequencing the administration of antimicrobials can be a simple tool to probe their mode of activity and quantify their efficacy.
Identification of novel genes responsible for ethanol and/or thermotolerance by transposon mutagenesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains tolerant to ethanol and heat stresses are important for industrial ethanol production. In this study, five strains (Tn 1-5) tolerant to up to 15% ethanol were isolated by screening a transposon-mediated mutant library. Two of them displayed tolerance to heat (42C). The determination of transposon insertion sites and Northern blot analysis identified seven putative genes (CMP2, IMD4, SSK2, PPG1, DLD3, PAM1, and MSN2) and revealed simultaneous down-regulations of CMP2 and IMD4, and SSK2 and PPG1, down-regulation of DLD3, and disruptions of the open reading frame of PAM1 and MSN2, indicating that ethanol and/or heat tolerance can be conferred. Knockout mutants of these seven individual genes were ethanol tolerant and three of them (SSK2, PPG1, and PAM1) were tolerant to heat. Such tolerant phenotypes reverted to sensitive phenotypes by the autologous or overexpression of each gene. Five transposon mutants showed higher ethanol production and grew faster than the control strain when cultured in rich media containing 30% glucose and initial 6% ethanol at 30C. Of those, two thermotolerant transposon mutants (Tn 2 and Tn 3) exhibited significantly enhanced growth and ethanol production compared to the control at 42C. The genes identified in this study may provide a basis for the application in developing industrial yeast strains.
Visualization of the synergistic effect of lithium acetate and single-stranded carrier DNA on Saccharomyces cerevisiae transformation.	Transformation is an indispensable method for the genetic manipulation of cells. Saccharomyces cerevisiae can be transformed by incubating intact cells and plasmid DNA in the presence of polyethylene glycol alone. Lithium acetate (LiAc) and single-stranded carrier DNA (ssDNA) enhance the transformation efficiency, but the mechanism underlying this enhancement has remained elusive. In this study, we first confirmed that LiAc and ssDNA synergistically improve the transformation efficiency of S. cerevisiae intact cells. We then used transmission electron microscopy to observe the cell walls of yeast incubated with both LiAc and ssDNA in the presence of negatively charged Nanogold (in this context, a mimic of DNA). Under these conditions, the cell walls exhibited protruded, loose, and porous structures. The Nanogold was observed within the cell wall, rather than on the surface. We also made observations using YOYO-1, a fluorescent DNA probe. Based on the transmission electron microscopy and fluorescence data, we speculated that ssDNA covers the whole cell and enters, at least partially, into the cell wall structure, causing the cell wall to become protruded, loose, and porous; meanwhile, LiAc produces effect on the cell wall. Together, the two compounds synergistically enhance the transformation efficiency and frequency.
A high-throughput assay for modulators of NNT activity in permeabilized yeast cells.	Nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase (NNT) mutant mice show glucose intolerance with impaired insulin secretion during glucose tolerance tests. Uncoupling of the  cell mitochondrial metabolism due to such mutations makes NNT a novel target for therapeutics in the treatment of pathologies such as type 2 diabetes. The authors propose that increasing NNT activity would help reduce deleterious buildup of reactive oxygen species in the inner mitochondrial matrix. They have expressed human Nnt cDNA for the first time in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and transhydrogenase activity in mitochondria isolated from these cells is six times greater than is seen in wild-type mitochondria. The same mitochondria have partially uncoupled respiration, and the cells have slower growth rates compared to cells that do not express NNT. The authors have used NNT's role as a redox-driven proton pump to develop a robust fluorimetric assay in permeabilized yeast. Screening in parallel a library of known pharmacologically active compounds (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke collection) against NNT  cells, they demonstrate a robust and reproducible assay suitable for expansion into larger and more diverse compound sets. The identification of NNT activators may help in the elucidation of the role of NNT in mammalian cells and assessing its potential as a therapeutic target for insulin secretion disorders.
Ieodomycins A-D, antimicrobial fatty acids from a marine Bacillus sp.	Bioassay-guided isolation of the EtOAc extract of a marine Bacillus sp., cultured in modified Bennett's broth medium, yielded four new antimicrobial fatty acids, named ieodomycins A-D. The planar structures of these new compounds were determined by extensive 1D and 2D NMR and HRESIMS spectroscopic data analysis. Their absolute configurations were elucidated by modified Mosher's method and literature data review. All four new compounds demonstrated antimicrobial activities in vitro.
N-terminal short fragment of TUP1 confers resistance to 5-bromodeoxyuridine in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Small molecules that exhibit biological activity have contributed to the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of various biological phenomena. 5-Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) is a thymidine analogue that modulates various biological phenomena such as cellular differentiation and cellular senescence in cultured mammalian cells. Although BrdU is thought to function through changing chromatin structure and gene expression, its precise molecular mechanisms are not understood. To study the molecular mechanism for the action of BrdU, we have employed the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model system, and screened multi-copy suppressor genes that confer resistance to BrdU. Our genetic screen has revealed that expression of the N-terminal short fragment of TUP1, and also disruption of HDA1 or HOS1, histone deacetylases that interact with TUP1, conferred resistance to BrdU. These results suggest the implication of the chromatin proteins in the function of BrdU, and would provide novel clues to answer the old question of how BrdU modulates various biological phenomena.
Enhanced resistance of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to vanillin by expression of lacA from Trametes sp. AH28-2.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae is affected by the presence of certain phenolic compounds such as vanillin during fermentation of pretreated lignocellulosic hydrolysates. Since vanillin can be polymerized in the presence of laccase into compounds with lower toxicity, the laccase gene, lacA, from Trametes sp. AH28-2 was fused to the -factor signal sequence and transferred into S. cerevisiae CEN.PK strains for secretory expression. Furthermore, the chaperone gene, KAR2, was overexpressed to promote the translocation of laccase. In the presence of 8 mmol/L vanillin, a shorter lag phase was observed in the lacA gene expressing strains. The vanillin-specific conversion rate of the lacA-expressing strain BSJX0A2 was 0.069 g g(-1)biomass h(-1), while it was 0.065 g g(-1)biomass h(-1) in the reference strain.
Analysis of chloroquine resistance transporter (CRT) isoforms and orthologues in S. cerevisiae yeast.	Previous work from our laboratory optimized MeOH-inducible expression of the P. falciparum malarial parasite transporter PfCRT in P. pastoris yeast. These strains are useful for many experiments but do not allow for inducible protein expression under ambient growth conditions. We have therefore optimized galactose-inducible expression of PfCRT in S. cerevisiae yeast. We find that expression of PfCRT confers CQ hypersensitivity to growing yeast and that this is due to plasma membrane localization of the transporter. We use quantitative analyses of growth rates to compare hypersensitivity for yeast expressing various PfCRT isoforms. We also report successful high level inducible expression of the P. vivax orthologue, PvCRT, and compare CQ hypersensitivity for PvCRT vs PfCRT expressing yeast. We test the hypothesis that hypersensitivity is due to increased transport of CQ into yeast expressing the transporters via direct (3)H-CQ transport experiments and analyze the effect that membrane potential has on transport. The data suggest important new tools for rapid functional screening of PfCRT and PvCRT isoforms and provide further evidence for a model wherein membrane potential promotes charged CQ transport by PfCRT. Data also support our previous conclusion that wild type PfCRT is capable of CQ transport and provide a basis for understanding the lack of correspondence between PvCRT mutations and resistance to CQ in the important malarial parasite P. vivax.
Design of nanoemulsion-based delivery systems of natural antimicrobials: effect of the emulsifier.	This work aims at investigating the effect of the nanoemulsion delivery systems on the antimicrobial activity of different essential oil components. Carvacrol, limonene and cinnamaldehyde were encapsulated in the sunflower oil droplets of nanoemulsions prepared by high pressure homogenization and stabilized by different emulsifiers: (a) lecithin, (b) pea proteins, (c) sugar ester and (d) a combination of Tween 20 and glycerol monooleate. The antimicrobial activity was measured against three different microorganisms, such as Escherichia coli, Lactobacillus delbrueckii and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The measured antimicrobial activity was significantly affected by the formulation of the nanoemulsion, where the different bioactive compounds were encapsulated. In particular, the effect of the delivery systems on the antimicrobial activity was correlated to the concentration of the essential oil components in the aqueous phase in equilibrium with the nanoemulsion droplets, suggesting that the ability of the active molecules to interact with cell membranes is associated to their dissolution in the aqueous phase. These considerations can lead to a more rational design of the nanoemulsion-based delivery systems for essential oils, based on the opportune choice of the emulsifiers in dependence of the desired function of the antimicrobials within the food system.
Gene RAD31 is identical to gene MEC1 of yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae]	The earlier identified gene RAD31 was mapped on the right arm of chromosome II in the region of gene MEC1 localization. Epistatic analysis demonstrated that the rad31 mutation is an allele of the MEC1 gene, which allows further designation of the rad31 mutation as mec1-212. Mutation mec1-212, similar to deletion alleles of this gene, causes sensitivity to hydroxyurea, disturbs the check-point function, and suppresses UV-induced mutagenesis. However, this mutation significantly increases the frequency of spontaneous canavanine-resistance mutations induced by disturbances in correcting errors of DNA replication and repair, which distinguishes it from all identified alleles of gene MEC1.
Glucose signaling-mediated coordination of cell growth and cell cycle in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Besides being the favorite carbon and energy source for the budding yeast Sacchromyces cerevisiae, glucose can act as a signaling molecule to regulate multiple aspects of yeast physiology. Yeast cells have evolved several mechanisms for monitoring the level of glucose in their habitat and respond quickly to frequent changes in the sugar availability in the environment: the cAMP/PKA pathways (with its two branches comprising Ras and the Gpr1/Gpa2 module), the Rgt2/Snf3-Rgt1 pathway and the main repression pathway involving the kinase Snf1. The cAMP/PKA pathway plays the prominent role in responding to changes in glucose availability and initiating the signaling processes that promote cell growth and division. Snf1 (the yeast homologous to mammalian AMP-activated protein kinase) is primarily required for the adaptation of yeast cell to glucose limitation and for growth on alternative carbon source, but it is also involved in the cellular response to various environmental stresses. The Rgt2/Snf3-Rgt1 pathway regulates the expression of genes required for glucose uptake. Many interconnections exist between the diverse glucose sensing systems, which enables yeast cells to fine tune cell growth, cell cycle and their coordination in response to nutritional changes.
P1 and P2 protein heterodimer binding to the P0 protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is relatively non-specific and a source of ribosomal heterogeneity.	The ribosomal stalk is formed by four acidic phosphoproteins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, P1, P1, P2 and P2, which form two heterodimers, P1/P2 and P1/P2, that preferentially bind to sites A and B of the P0 protein, respectively. Using mutant strains carrying only one of the four possible P1/P2 combinations, we found a specific phenotype associated to each P1/P2 pair, indicating that not all acidic P proteins play the same role. The absence of one P1/P2 heterodimer reduced the rate of cell growth by varying degrees, depending on the proteins missing. Synthesis of the 60S ribosomal subunit also decreased, particularly in strains carrying the unusual P1-P2 or P1-P2 heterodimers, although the distinct P1/P2 dimers are bound with similar affinity to the mutant ribosome. While in wild-type strains the B site bound P1/P2 in a highly specific manner and the A site bound the four P proteins similarly, both the A and B binding sites efficiently bound practically any P1/P2 pair in mutant strains expressing truncated P0 proteins. The reported results support that while most ribosomes contain a P1/P2-P0-P1/P2 structure in normal conditions, the stalk assembly mechanism can generate alternative compositions, which have been previously detected in the cell.
Glucose-induced posttranslational activation of protein phosphatases PP2A and PP1 in yeast.	The protein phosphatases PP2A and PP1 are major regulators of a variety of cellular processes in yeast and other eukaryotes. Here, we reveal that both enzymes are direct targets of glucose sensing. Addition of glucose to glucose-deprived yeast cells triggered rapid posttranslational activation of both PP2A and PP1. Glucose activation of PP2A is controlled by regulatory subunits Rts1, Cdc55, Rrd1 and Rrd2. It is associated with rapid carboxymethylation of the catalytic subunits, which is necessary but not sufficient for activation. Glucose activation of PP1 was fully dependent on regulatory subunits Reg1 and Shp1. Absence of Gac1, Glc8, Reg2 or Red1 partially reduced activation while Pig1 and Pig2 inhibited activation. Full activation of PP2A and PP1 was also dependent on subunits classically considered to belong to the other phosphatase. PP2A activation was dependent on PP1 subunits Reg1 and Shp1 while PP1 activation was dependent on PP2A subunit Rts1. Rts1 interacted with both Pph21 and Glc7 under different conditions and these interactions were Reg1 dependent. Reg1-Glc7 interaction is responsible for PP1 involvement in the main glucose repression pathway and we show that deletion of Shp1 also causes strong derepression of the invertase gene SUC2. Deletion of the PP2A subunits Pph21 and Pph22, Rrd1 and Rrd2, specifically enhanced the derepression level of SUC2, indicating that PP2A counteracts SUC2 derepression. Interestingly, the effect of the regulatory subunit Rts1 was consistent with its role as a subunit of both PP2A and PP1, affecting derepression and repression of SUC2, respectively. We also show that abolished phosphatase activation, except by reg1, does not completely block Snf1 dephosphorylation after addition of glucose. Finally, we show that glucose activation of the cAMP-PKA (protein kinase A) pathway is required for glucose activation of both PP2A and PP1. Our results provide novel insight into the complex regulatory role of these two major protein phosphatases in glucose regulation.
Glucose levels regulate the nucleo-mitochondrial distribution of Mig2.	Mig2 has been described as a transcriptional factor that in the absence of Mig1 protein is required for glucose repression of the SUC2 gene. Thus, until now, the main role assigned to Mig2 has been the functional redundancy to Mig1. In this study, we report that Mig2 has a double subcellular localization. As expected, in high-glucose conditions it is accumulated in the nucleus but in low-glucose conditions Mig2 has an unexpected mitochondrial localization and role in mitochondrial morphology. We describe that Mig2 physically interacts with the mitochondrial protein Ups1 in a glucose-dependent manner. We also show that mig2 mutant cells exhibit a fragmented network of mitochondrial tubules, a phenotype similarly observed in cells lacking Fzo1 and Ups1. Furthermore, Mig2 acts antagonistically with respect to the fission-promoting components, because mitochondrial aggregation induced by DNM1 deletion was rescued in the dnm1mig2 double mutant. Thus, our studies have revealed an additional role for Mig2 as a novel factor required for the maintenance of fusion-competent mitochondria in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and strongly suggest that Mig2 could be involved in the cross talk between the nucleus and the mitochondria through Ups1 to regulate mitochondrial morphology in a glucose dependent manner.
Mcm2 phosphorylation and the response to replicative stress.	The replicative helicase in eukaryotic cells is comprised of minichromosome maintenance (Mcm) proteins 2 through 7 (Mcm2-7) and is a key target for regulation of cell proliferation. In addition, it is regulated in response to replicative stress. One of the protein kinases that targets Mcm2-7 is the Dbf4-dependent kinase Cdc7 (DDK). In a previous study, we showed that alanine mutations of the DDK phosphorylation sites at S164 and S170 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mcm2 result in sensitivity to caffeine and methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) leading us to suggest that DDK phosphorylation of Mcm2 is required in response to replicative stress.
Cytoprotective activity of minocycline includes improvement of mitochondrial coupling: the importance of minocycline concentration and the presence of VDAC.	Available data indicate that minocycline, an antibiotic of the tetracycline family, has cytoprotective properties due to a direct interaction with mitochondria. Yet, the data in the case of isolated mitochondria suggest discrepant or even detrimental effect(s) of the interaction. We have studied the cytoprotective activity displayed by minocycline in the case of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells pretreated with HO. We demonstrated that the activity of minocycline required the presence of VDAC (voltage-dependent anion-selective channel) and provided distinct improvement of mitochondrial coupling. In the case of isolated mitochondria, we verified that minocycline exhibited uncoupler activity when applied in micromolar concentrations. However, when added in nanomolar concentrations, minocycline was able to improve the level of coupling for isolated mitochondria. The coupling improvement effect was observed in mitochondria containing VDAC but not in por1 mitochondria (depleted of VDAC1, termed here VDAC) and in both types of mitoplasts. Thus, properly low concentrations of minocycline within the cell in the vicinity of VDAC-containing mitochondria enable the improvement of energy coupling of mitochondria that contributes to cytoprotective activity of minocycline.
The Pht1;9 and Pht1;8 transporters mediate inorganic phosphate acquisition by the Arabidopsis thaliana root during phosphorus starvation.	 The activation of high-affinity root transport systems is the best-conserved strategy employed by plants to cope with low inorganic phosphate (Pi) availability, a role traditionally assigned to Pi transporters of the Pht1 family, whose respective contributions to Pi acquisition remain unclear.  To characterize the Arabidopsis thaliana Pht1;9 transporter, we combined heterologous functional expression in yeast with expression/subcellular localization studies and reverse genetics approaches in planta. Double Pht1;9/Pht1;8 silencing lines were also generated to gain insight into the role of the closest Pht1;9 homolog.  Pht1;9 encodes a functional plasma membrane-localized transporter that mediates high-affinity Pi/H symport activity in yeast and is highly induced in Pi-starved Arabidopsis roots. Null pht1;9 alleles exhibit exacerbated responses to prolonged Pi limitation and enhanced tolerance to arsenate exposure, whereas Pht1;9 overexpression induces the opposite phenotypes. Strikingly, Pht1;9/Pht1;8 silencing lines display more pronounced defects than the pht1;9 mutants.  Pi and arsenic plant content analyses confirmed a role of Pht1;9 in Pi acquisition during Pi starvation and arsenate uptake at the root-soil interface. Although not affecting plant internal Pi repartition, Pht1;9 activity influences the overall Arabidopsis Pi status. Finally, our results indicate that both the Pht1;9 and Pht1;8 transporters function in sustaining plant Pi supply on environmental Pi depletion.
Clustered mutations in yeast and in human cancers can arise from damaged long single-strand DNA regions.	Mutations are typically perceived as random, independent events. We describe here nonrandom clustered mutations in yeast and in human cancers. Genome sequencing of yeast grown under chronic alkylation damage identified mutation clusters that extend up to 200 kb. A predominance of "strand-coordinated" changes of either cytosines or guanines in the same strand, mutation patterns, and genetic controls indicated that simultaneous mutations were generated by base alkylation in abnormally long single-strand DNA (ssDNA) formed at double-strand breaks (DSBs) and replication forks. Significantly, we found mutation clusters with analogous features in sequenced human cancers. Strand-coordinated clusters of mutated cytosines or guanines often resided near chromosome rearrangement breakpoints and were highly enriched with a motif targeted by APOBEC family cytosine-deaminases, which strongly prefer ssDNA. These data indicate that hypermutation via multiple simultaneous changes in randomly formed ssDNA is a general phenomenon that may be an important mechanism producing rapid genetic variation.
Ammonium is toxic for aging yeast cells, inducing death and shortening of the chronological lifespan.	Here we show that in aging Saccharomyces cerevisiae (budding yeast) cells, NH(4) (+) induces cell death associated with shortening of chronological life span. This effect is positively correlated with the concentration of NH(4) (+) added to the culture medium and is particularly evident when cells are starved for auxotrophy-complementing amino acids. NH(4) (+)-induced cell death is accompanied by an initial small increase of apoptotic cells followed by extensive necrosis. Autophagy is inhibited by NH(4) (+), but this does not cause a decrease in cell viability. We propose that the toxic effects of NH(4) (+) are mediated by activation of PKA and TOR and inhibition of Sch9p. Our data show that NH(4) (+) induces cell death in aging cultures through the regulation of evolutionary conserved pathways. They may also provide new insights into longevity regulation in multicellular organisms and increase our understanding of human disorders such as hyperammonemia as well as effects of amino acid deprivation employed as a therapeutic strategy.
Point sources of emerging contaminants along the Colorado River Basin: source water for the arid Southwestern United States.	Emerging contaminants (ECs) (e.g., pharmaceuticals, illicit drugs, personal care products) have been detected in waters across the United States. The objective of this study was to evaluate point sources of ECs along the Colorado River, from the headwaters in Colorado to the Gulf of California. At selected locations in the Colorado River Basin (sites in Colorado, Utah, Nevada, Arizona, and California), waste stream tributaries and receiving surface waters were sampled using either grab sampling or polar organic chemical integrative samplers (POCIS). The grab samples were extracted using solid-phase cartridge extraction (SPE), and the POCIS sorbents were transferred into empty SPEs and eluted with methanol. All extracts were prepared for, and analyzed by, liquid chromatography-electrospray-ion trap mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-ITMS). Log D(OW) values were calculated for all ECs in the study and compared to the empirical data collected. POCIS extracts were screened for the presence of estrogenic chemicals using the yeast estrogen screen (YES) assay. Extracts from the 2008 POCIS deployment in the Las Vegas Wash showed the second highest estrogenicity response. In the grab samples, azithromycin (an antibiotic) was detected in all but one urban waste stream, with concentrations ranging from 30ng/L to 2800ng/L. Concentration levels of azithromycin, methamphetamine and pseudoephedrine showed temporal variation from the Tucson WWTP. Those ECs that were detected in the main surface water channels (those that are diverted for urban use and irrigation along the Colorado River) were in the region of the limit-of-detection (e.g., 10ng/L), but most were below detection limits.
Occurrence of killer yeasts in isolates of clinical origin.	A total of 1 025 strains belonging to different Candida species of clinical origin   were evaluated for their killer activity against sensitive strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.   Isolates were identified by standard morphological and biochemical analyses. For the   evaluation of the killer activity, potential killer isolates were streaked on plates previously   seeded with the sensitive strain. A total of 52 Candida isolates (5%) exhibited killer activity   against both sensitive yeast strains. The occurrence of the killer phenomenon was   proportionally higher in isolates recovered from closed cavities. Candida glabrata was the   species with the most occurrences of killer strains, but a bigger proportion of killer activity   was observed in Candida utilis. Secretion of killer toxins could represent at least partially, an   advantage against other candida and non-Candida strains in the colonization process,   especially for uncommon Candida species.
Chemical composition, antimicrobial, antioxidant and cytotoxic activity of the essential oil from the leaves of Acanthopanax leucorrhizus (Oliv.) Harms.	The leaf essential oil of Acanthopanax leucorrhizus, a widely used medicinal plant, was obtained by hydrodistillation and analyzed by using combination of capillary GC-FID, GC-MS and RI. Fifty-nine components, representing 93.1% of the total oil, were identified in the essential oil and the main components of the oil were -pinene (7.3%), linalool (6.5%), p-cymene (6.3%), -elemene (3.8%), -terpinene (3.7%), spathulenol (3.2%) and cis-sabinene hydrate (3.1%). Furthermore, the in vitro antimicrobial, antioxidant and cytotoxic activities of the essential oil were examined. The test results showed that the essential oil exhibited a broad spectrum of anti-microbial activity against all microorganisms tested. Gram-positive bacteria were more sensitive to the oil than gram-negative bacteria and yeasts. The oil possessed moderate cytotoxicity on human tumor cells with lower IC(50) values of 25.65g/ml (Hep G2), 28.71g/ml (Hela), 30.15g/ml (Bel-7402) and 37.55g/ml (A-549). The moderate antioxidant activity of the oil was also evaluated by the 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical method.
Transcriptional activation of yeast genes disrupts intragenic nucleosome phasing.	Nucleosomes often undergo extensive rearrangement when genes are activated for transcription. We have shown previously, using paired-end sequencing of yeast nucleosomes, that major changes in chromatin structure occur when genes are activated by 3-aminotriazole (3AT), an inducer of the transcriptional activator Gcn4. Here, we provide a global analysis of these data. At the genomic level, nucleosomes are regularly phased relative to the transcription start site. However, for a subset of 234 strongly induced genes, this phasing is much more irregular after induction, consistent with the loss of some nucleosomes and the re-positioning of the remaining nucleosomes. To address the nature of this rearrangement, we developed the inter-nucleosome distance auto-correlation (DAC) function. At long range, DAC analysis indicates that nucleosomes have an average spacing of 162 bp, consistent with the reported repeat length. At short range, DAC reveals a 10.25-bp periodicity, implying that nucleosomes in overlapping positions are rotationally related. DAC analysis of the 3AT-induced genes suggests that transcription activation coincides with rearrangement of nucleosomes into irregular arrays with longer spacing. Sequence analysis of the +1 nucleosomes belonging to the 45 most strongly activated genes reveals a distinctive periodic oscillation in the A/T-dinucleotide occurrence that is present throughout the nucleosome and extends into the linker. This unusual pattern suggests that the +1 nucleosomes might be prone to sliding, thereby facilitating transcription.
Genotoxic and mutagenic properties of Bauhinia platypetala extract, a traditional Brazilian medicinal plant.	Bauhinia platypetala Burch. is a traditionally used Brazilian medicinal plant, although no evidence in the literature substantiates the safety of its use.
Perturbation of sphingolipid metabolism induces endoplasmic reticulum stress-mediated mitochondrial apoptosis in budding yeast.	Sphingolipids are a class of membrane lipids conserved from yeast to mammals which determine whether a cell dies or survives. Perturbations in sphingolipid metabolism cause apoptotic cell death. Recent studies indicate that reduced sphingolipid levels trigger the cell death, but little is known about the mechanisms. In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we show that reduction in complex sphingolipid levels causes loss of viability, most likely due to the induction of mitochondria-dependent apoptotic cell death pathway, accompanied by changes in mitochondrial and endoplasmic reticulum morphology and endoplasmic reticulum stress. Elevated cytosolic free calcium is required for the loss of viability. These results indicate that complex sphingolipids are essential for maintaining endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis and suggest that perturbation in complex sphingolipid levels activates an endoplasmic reticulum stress-mediated and calcium-dependent pathway to propagate apoptotic signals to the mitochondria.
Simultaneous production of bio-ethanol and bleached pulp from red algae.	The red algae, Gelidium corneum, was used to produce bleached pulp for papermaking and ethanol. Aqueous extracts obtained at 100-140 C were subjected to saccharification, purification, fermentation, and distillation to produce ethanol. The solid remnants were bleached with chlorine dioxide and peroxide to make pulp. In the extraction process, sulfuric acid and sodium thiosulfate were added to increase the extract yield and to improve de-polymerization of the extracts, as well as to generate high-quality pulp. An extraction process incorporating 5% sodium thiosulfate by dry weight of the algae provided optimal production conditions for the production of both strong pulp and a high ethanol yield. These results suggest that it might be possible to utilize algae instead of trees and starch for pulp and ethanol production, respectively.
Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme Cdc34 mediates methylmercury resistance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by increasing Whi2 degradation.	Overexpression of Cdc34, a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, confers methylmercury resistance on yeast cells. This suggests that degradation, by the ubiquitin-proteasome (UP) system, of proteins that enhance methylmercury toxicity might be a factor in the development of methylmercury resistance. The present study shows that yeast cells overexpressing Whi2, a protein that is ubiquitinated in cells, are highly susceptible to methylmercury, suggesting that Whi2 may enhance methylmercury toxicity. Although both Whi2 deficiency and Cdc34 overexpression individually confer methylmercury resistance on yeast cells, Whi2-deficient cells overexpressing Cdc34 showed no additive resistance to methylmercury, compared with Whi2-expressing cells that overexpress Cdc34. The intracellular level of Whi2 was significantly reduced by Cdc34 overexpression; however, this reduction was almost completely attenuated when proteasomal degradation was inhibited. These results suggest that overexpression of Cdc34 confers methylmercury resistance on yeast cells through the UP system by promoting degradation of Whi2, a methylmercury toxicity-enhancing protein.
Identification of deubiquitinating enzymes involved in methylmercury toxicity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Deubiquitinating enzymes that influence the methylmercury susceptibility of yeast cells were investigated. Deficiency of Ubp2, Ubp4, Ubp 6, or Ubp14 conferred methylmercury resistance on cells, while deficiency of Ubp7, Ubp13, or Ubp15 conferred high methylmercury susceptibility. Of these enzymes, deficiency of Ubp4 and Ubp6 was associated with particularly high methylmercury resistance. Yeast cells treated with a proteasome inhibitor showed methylmercury resistance due to Ubp4 deficiency, but not due to Ubp6 deficiency. Thus, the enhanced methylmercury toxicity associated with Ubp6 expression requires proteasomal activity, suggesting that Ubp4 and Ubp6 contribute to enhanced methylmercury toxicity through different mechanisms.
Relationship between ethanol and oxidative stress in laboratory and brewing yeast strains.	Ethanol is a chemical stress factor that inhibits cellular growth and determines metabolic changes leading to reduction of cell viability during fermentation and yeast storage. To determine the effect of time, temperature and ethanol during storage of brewing yeasts we have monitored viability of cells stored for 72 h, at 6 C or 12 C, in the presence of various ethanol concentrations. Under the conditions tested, 6 C is the most favourable temperature to store brewing yeast creams emphasizing the importance of a tight temperature control in the storage vessels. Because W210 is less resistant to storage in the presence of ethanol than W34/70, the optimal storage parameters obtained under our laboratory conditions vary significantly. The ale strain is sensitive to storage under ethanol concentrations higher than 5% (v/v) for more than 48 h at 6 C whereas at the same temperature the lager strain tolerates ethanol up to 7.5% (v/v) for 72 h. Also, the viability assays indicate that the antioxidant protein Yap1 is an important factor to storage resistance of BY4741 laboratory strain. To investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying tolerance of brewing yeast strains to ethanol, we have performed phenotypic analysis, localization studies and have monitored the activation of antioxidant and protection genes as well as the intracellular contents of glycogen and trehalose. Overall, our data suggest that the ale strain W210 has a defective antioxidant defence system and that ethanol may induce the antioxidant defences as well as glycogen and trehalose protection mechanisms in laboratory and brewing yeast strains.
Bridging the gap between gene expression and metabolic phenotype via kinetic models.	Despite the close association between gene expression and metabolism, experimental evidence shows that gene expression levels alone cannot predict metabolic phenotypes, indicating a knowledge gap in our understanding of how these processes are connected. Here, we present a method that integrates transcriptome, fluxome, and metabolome data using kinetic models to create a mechanistic link between gene expression and metabolism.
Oxidative stress and replication-independent DNA breakage induced by arsenic in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Arsenic is a well-established human carcinogen of poorly understood mechanism of genotoxicity. It is generally accepted that arsenic acts indirectly by generating oxidative DNA damage that can be converted to replication-dependent DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs), as well as by interfering with DNA repair pathways and DNA methylation. Here we show that in budding yeast arsenic also causes replication and transcription-independent DSBs in all phases of the cell cycle, suggesting a direct genotoxic mode of arsenic action. This is accompanied by DNA damage checkpoint activation resulting in cell cycle delays in S and G2/M phases in wild type cells. In G1 phase, arsenic activates DNA damage response only in the absence of the Yku70-Yku80 complex which normally binds to DNA ends and inhibits resection of DSBs. This strongly indicates that DSBs are produced by arsenic in G1 but DNA ends are protected by Yku70-Yku80 and thus invisible for the checkpoint response. Arsenic-induced DSBs are processed by homologous recombination (HR), as shown by Rfa1 and Rad52 nuclear foci formation and requirement of HR proteins for cell survival during arsenic exposure. We show further that arsenic greatly sensitizes yeast to phleomycin as simultaneous treatment results in profound accumulation of DSBs. Importantly, we observed a similar response in fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, suggesting that the mechanisms of As(III) genotoxicity may be conserved in other organisms.
Mn tolerance in rice is mediated by MTP8.1, a member of the cation diffusion facilitator family.	Manganese (Mn) is an essential micronutrient for plants, but is toxic when present in excess. The rice plant (Oryza sativa L.) accumulates high concentrations of Mn in the aerial parts; however, the molecular basis for Mn tolerance is poorly understood. In the present study, genes encoding Mn tolerance were screened for by expressing cDNAs of genes from rice shoots in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A gene encoding a cation diffusion facilitator (CDF) family member, OsMTP8.1, was isolated, and its expression was found to enhance Mn accumulation and tolerance in S. cerevisiae. In plants, OsMTP8.1 and its transcript were mainly detected in shoots. High or low supply of Mn moderately induced an increase or decrease in the accumulation of OsMTP8.1, respectively. OsMTP8.1 was detected in all cells of leaf blades through immunohistochemistry. OsMTP8.1 fused to green fluorescent protein was localized to the tonoplast. Disruption of OsMTP8.1 resulted in decreased chlorophyll levels, growth inhibition in the presence of high concentrations of Mn, and decreased accumulation of Mn in shoots and roots. However, there was no difference in the accumulation of other metals, including Zn, Cu, Fe, Mg, Ca, and K. These results suggest that OsMTP8.1 is an Mn-specific transporter that sequesters Mn into vacuoles in rice and is required for Mn tolerance in shoots. 
Characterization of a purine permease family gene OsPUP7 involved in growth and development control in rice.	In this study, PUP-type cytokinin transporter genes were identified in rice (Oryza sativa L.). The Oryza sativa purine permease (OsPUP) family has 12 members that show similar predicted protein sequences with AtPUPs. To reveal the functions of OsPUP genes, we searched the T-DNA mutant library of rice and found one mutant for the member OsPUP7. The T-DNA insertion caused a new transcript that encodes a protein with 26 amino acids different from the native OsPUP7 at the C-terminus. The mutant showed multiple phenotypic changes including increased plant height, big seeds, and delayed flowering. The mutant also showed increased sensitivity to drought and salt stresses and treatments with kinetin and abscisic acid. OsPUP7 is expressed mainly in the vascular bundle, pistil, and stamens. The measurement of cytokinins (CKs) showed that CK content in the mutant spikelets accumulated higher than that in the wild type. Moreover, uptake experiment in the yeast fcy2 mutant suggested that OsPUP7 has the ability to transport caffeine, a CK derivative. Our results indicate that the PUP transport system also exists in rice, and OsPUP7 has an important role in the transport of CK, thus affecting developmental process and stress responses. 
EU-wide monitoring survey on emerging polar organic contaminants in wastewater treatment plant effluents.	In the year 2010, effluents from 90 European wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) were analyzed for 156 polar organic chemical contaminants. The analyses were complemented by effect-based monitoring approaches aiming at estrogenicity and dioxin-like toxicity analyzed by in vitro reporter gene bioassays, and yeast and diatom culture acute toxicity optical bioassays. Analyses of organic substances were performed by solid-phase extraction (SPE) or liquid-liquid extraction (LLE) followed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) or gas chromatography high-resolution mass spectrometry (GC-HRMS). Target microcontaminants were pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs), veterinary (antibiotic) drugs, perfluoroalkyl substances (PFASs), organophosphate ester flame retardants, pesticides (and some metabolites), industrial chemicals such as benzotriazoles (corrosion inhibitors), iodinated x-ray contrast agents, and gadolinium magnetic resonance imaging agents; in addition biological endpoints were measured. The obtained results show the presence of 125 substances (80% of the target compounds) in European wastewater effluents, in concentrations ranging from low nanograms to milligrams per liter. These results allow for an estimation to be made of a European median level for the chemicals investigated in WWTP effluents. The most relevant compounds in the effluent waters with the highest median concentration levels were the artificial sweeteners acesulfame and sucralose, benzotriazoles (corrosion inhibitors), several organophosphate ester flame retardants and plasticizers (e.g. tris(2-chloroisopropyl)phosphate; TCPP), pharmaceutical compounds such as carbamazepine, tramadol, telmisartan, venlafaxine, irbesartan, fluconazole, oxazepam, fexofenadine, diclofenac, citalopram, codeine, bisoprolol, eprosartan, the antibiotics trimethoprim, ciprofloxacine, sulfamethoxazole, and clindamycine, the insect repellent N,N'-diethyltoluamide (DEET), the pesticides MCPA and mecoprop, perfluoroalkyl substances (such as PFOS and PFOA), caffeine, and gadolinium.
Design, synthesis and biological activities of some 7-aminocephalosporanic acid derivatives.	The treatment of 7-ACA with 4-substituted benzensulfonyl chlorides afforded the compounds containing 4-nitro/aminophenyl sulfonylamino moiety in the cephalosporanic acid skeleton (2, 4). The synthesis of the cephalosporanic acid derivatives containing 1,3-thiazole or 5-oxo-1,3-thiazolidine nucleus and sulfonamide function (8a, 8b, 10) was performed starting from 7-ACA by several steps. The reaction of 7-ACA with [4-(2-fluoro-4-nitrophenyl)piperazin-1-yl]acetyl chloride afforded the corresponding 7-{[4-(2-fluoro-4-nitrophenyl)piperazin-1-yl]acetyl}amino derivative (13). The synthesized compounds were screened for their antimicrobial and antiurease activities. Some of them were found to possess good-moderate antimicrobial activity against the test microorganisms. Compound 5d was observed to have moderate anti-urease activity. 
Predicting functional gene interactions with the hierarchical interaction score.	Systems biology aims to unravel the vast network of functional interactions that govern biological systems. To date, the inference of gene interactions from large-scale 'omics data is typically achieved using correlations. We present the hierarchical interaction score (HIS) and show that the HIS outperforms commonly used methods in the inference of functional interactions between genes measured in large-scale experiments, making it a valuable statistic for systems biology. 
The molecular genetics of coenzyme Q biosynthesis in health and disease.	Coenzyme Q, or ubiquinone, is an endogenously synthesized lipid-soluble antioxidant that plays a major role in the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Although extensively studied for decades, recent data on coenzyme Q have painted an exciting albeit incomplete picture of the multiple facets of this molecule's function. In humans, mutations in the genes involved in the biosynthesis of coenzyme Q lead to a heterogeneous group of rare disorders, with most often severe and debilitating symptoms. In this review, we describe the current understanding of coenzyme Q biosynthesis, provide a detailed overview of human coenzyme Q deficiencies and discuss the existing mouse models for coenzyme Q deficiency. Furthermore, we briefly examine the current state of affairs in non-mitochondrial coenzyme Q functions and the latter's link to statin. 
Inhibitory activity of carbonyl compounds on alcoholic fermentation by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Aldehydes and acids play important roles in the fermentation inhibition of biomass hydrolysates. A series of carbonyl compounds (vanillin, syringaldehyde, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, pyrogallol aldehyde, and o-phthalaldehyde) were used to examine the quantitative structure-inhibitory activity relationship of carbonyl compounds on alcoholic fermentation, based on the glucose consumption rate and the final ethanol yield. It was observed that pyrogallol aldehyde and o-phthalaldehyde (5.0 mM) reduced the initial glucose consumption rate by 60 and 89%, respectively, and also decreased the final ethanol yield by 60 and 99%, respectively. Correlating the molecular descriptors to inhibition efficiency in yeast fermentation revealed a strong relationship between the energy of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (ELUMO) of aldehydes and their inhibitory efficiency in fermentation. On the other hand, vanillin, syringaldehyde, and 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde (5.0 mM) increased the final ethanol yields by 11, 4, and 1%, respectively. Addition of vanillin appeared to favor ethanol formation over glycerol formation and decreased the glycerol yield in yeast fermentation. Furthermore, alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) activity dropped significantly from 3.85 to 2.72, 1.83, 0.46, and 0.11 U/mg at 6 h of fermentation at vanillin concentrations of 0, 2.5, 5.0, 10.0, and 25.0 mM correspondingly. In addition, fermentation inhibition by acetic acid and benzoic acid was pH-dependent. Addition of acetate, benzoate, and potassium chloride increased the glucose consumption rate, likely because the salts enhanced membrane permeability, thus increasing glucose consumption. 
The yeast peroxiredoxin Tsa1 protects against protein-aggregate-induced oxidative stress.	Peroxiredoxins are ubiquitous thiol-specific proteins that have multiple functions in stress protection, including protection against oxidative stress. Tsa1 is the major yeast peroxiredoxin and we show that it functions as a specific antioxidant to protect the cell against the oxidative stress caused by nascent-protein misfolding and aggregation. Yeast mutants lacking TSA1 are sensitive to misfolding caused by exposure to the proline analogue azetidine-2-carboxylic acid (AZC). AZC promotes protein aggregation, and its toxicity to a tsa1 mutant is caused by the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The generation of [rho(0)] cells, which lack mitochondrial DNA, rescues the tsa1 mutant AZC sensitivity, indicating that mitochondria are the source of ROS. Inhibition of nascent-protein synthesis with cycloheximide prevents AZC-induced protein aggregation and abrogates ROS generation, confirming that the formation of aggregates causes ROS production. Protein aggregation is accompanied by mitochondrial fragmentation, and we show that Tsa1 localises to the sites of protein aggregation. Protein aggregates are formed adjacent to mitochondria, and our data indicate that active mitochondria generate ROS. These data indicate a new role for peroxiredoxins in protecting against ROS that are generated as a result of protein misfolding and aggregate formation.
A high-definition view of functional genetic variation from natural yeast genomes.	The question of how genetic variation in a population influences phenotypic variation and evolution is of major importance in modern biology. Yet much is still unknown about the relative functional importance of different forms of genome variation and how they are shaped by evolutionary processes. Here we address these questions by population level sequencing of 42 strains from the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and its closest relative S. paradoxus. We find that genome content variation, in the form of presence or absence as well as copy number of genetic material, is higher within S. cerevisiae than within S. paradoxus, despite genetic distances as measured in single-nucleotide polymorphisms being vastly smaller within the former species. This genome content variation, as well as loss-of-function variation in the form of premature stop codons and frameshifting indels, is heavily enriched in the subtelomeres, strongly reinforcing the relevance of these regions to functional evolution. Genes affected by these likely functional forms of variation are enriched for functions mediating interaction with the external environment (sugar transport and metabolism, flocculation, metal transport, and metabolism). Our results and analyses provide a comprehensive view of genomic diversity in budding yeast and expose surprising and pronounced differences between the variation within S. cerevisiae and that within S. paradoxus. We also believe that the sequence data and de novo assemblies will constitute a useful resource for further evolutionary and population genomics studies. 
Yap1 mediates tolerance to cobalt toxicity in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Cobalt has a rare occurrence in nature, but may accumulate in cells to toxic levels. In the present study, we have investigated how the transcription factor Yap1 mediates tolerance to cobalt toxicity.
Synthesis of amphiphilic seleninic acid derivatives with considerable activity against cellular membranes and certain pathogenic microbes.	Selenium compounds play a major role in Biology, where they are often associated with pronounced antioxidant activity or toxicity. Whilst most selenium compounds are not necessarily hazardous, their often selective cytotoxicity is interesting from a biochemical and pharmaceutical perspective. We have synthesized a series of amphiphilic molecules which combine a hydrophilic seleninic acid head group - which at the same time serves as thiol-specific warhead - with a hydrophobic tail. These molecules possess a surface activity similar to the one of SDS, yet their biological activity seems to exceed by far the one of a simple surfactant (e.g. SDS) or seleninic acid (e.g. phenyl seleninic acid). Such compounds effectively haemolyse Red Blood Cells and exhibit pronounced activity against Saccharomyces cerevisiae. From a chemical perspective, the seleninic warheads are likely to attack crucial cysteine proteins of the cellular thiolstat. 
Construction of reductive pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae for effective succinic acid fermentation at low pH value.	Succinic acid is an important precursor for the synthesis of high-value-added products. Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a suitable platform for succinic acid production because of its high tolerance towards acidity. In this study, a modified pathway for succinate production was established and investigated in S. cerevisiae. The engineered strain could produce up to 6.170.34g/L of succinate through the constructed pathway. The succinate titer was further improved to 8.090.28g/L by the deletion of GPD1 and even higher to 9.980.23g/L with a yield of 0.32mol/mol glucose through regulation of biotin and urea levels. Under optimal supplemental CO2 conditions in a bioreactor, the engineered strain produced 12.970.42g/L succinate with a yield of 0.21mol/mol glucose at pH 3.8. These results demonstrated that the proposed engineering strategy was efficient for succinic acid production at low pH value. 
General statistical framework for quantitative proteomics by stable isotope labeling.	The combination of stable isotope labeling (SIL) with mass spectrometry (MS) allows comparison of the abundance of thousands of proteins in complex mixtures. However, interpretation of the large data sets generated by these techniques remains a challenge because appropriate statistical standards are lacking. Here, we present a generally applicable model that accurately explains the behavior of data obtained using current SIL approaches, including (18)O, iTRAQ, and SILAC labeling, and different MS instruments. The model decomposes the total technical variance into the spectral, peptide, and protein variance components, and its general validity was demonstrated by confronting 48 experimental distributions against 18 different null hypotheses. In addition to its general applicability, the performance of the algorithm was at least similar than that of other existing methods. The model also provides a general framework to integrate quantitative and error information fully, allowing a comparative analysis of the results obtained from different SIL experiments. The model was applied to the global analysis of protein alterations induced by low HO concentrations in yeast, demonstrating the increased statistical power that may be achieved by rigorous data integration. Our results highlight the importance of establishing an adequate and validated statistical framework for the analysis of high-throughput data.
Comparative proteomic analysis of Saccharomyces cerevisiae under different nitrogen sources.	In cultures containing multiple sources of nitrogen, Saccharomyces cerevisiae exhibits a sequential use of nitrogen sources through a mechanism known as nitrogen catabolite repression (NCR). To identify proteins differentially expressed due to NCR, proteomic analysis of S. cerevisiae S288C under different nitrogen source conditions was performed using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE), revealing 169 candidate protein spots. Among these 169 protein spots, 121 were identified by matrix assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight/time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/TOF). The identified proteins were closely associated with four main biological processes through Gene Ontology (GO) categorical analysis. The identification of the potential proteins and cellular processes related to NCR offer a global overview of changes elicited by different nitrogen sources, providing clues into how yeast adapt to different nutritional conditions. Moreover, by comparing our proteomic data with corresponding mRNA data, proteins regulated at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional level could be distinguished. Biological significance In S. cerevisiae, different nitrogen sources provide different growth characteristics and generate different metabolites. The nitrogen catabolite repression (NCR) process plays an important role for S. cerevisiae in the ordinal utilization of different nitrogen sources. NCR process can result in significant shift of global metabolic networks. Previous works on NCR primarily focused on transcriptomic level. The results obtained in this study provided a global atlas of the proteome changes triggered by different nitrogen sources and would facilitate the understanding of mechanisms for how yeast could adapt to different nutritional conditions. 
Anti-cancer drug KP1019 modulates epigenetics and induces DNA damage response in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	KP1019 comprises a class of ruthenium compounds having promising anticancer activity. Here, we investigated the molecular targets of KP1019 using Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model organism. Our results revealed that in the absence of the N-terminal tail of histone H3, the growth inhibitory effect of KP1019 was markedly enhanced. Furthermore, H3K56A or rtt109 mutants exhibit hypersensitivity for KP1019. Moreover, KP1019 evicts histones from the mononucleosome and interacts specifically with histone H3. We have also shown that KP1019 treatment causes induction of Ribonucleotide Reductase (RNR) genes and degradation of Sml1p. Our results also suggest that DNA damage induced by KP1019 is primarily repaired through double-strand break repair (DSBR). In summary, KP1019 targets histone proteins, with important consequences for DNA damage responses and epigenetics. 
The haploinsufficiency profile of -hederin suggests a caspofungin-like antifungal mode of action.	The leaves of common ivy (Hedera helix) contain the cytotoxic saponin -hederin, which is inhibitory to Candida albicans at low concentrations. To investigate the mode of action of -hederin, a haploinsufficiency screen was carried out using a library of 1152 Saccharomyces cerevisiae deletion strains. An ethanol ivy extract containing -hederin was used in the initial screen to reduce the amount of compound required. Strains exhibiting disproportionately low growth were then examined in more detail by comparing growth curves in the presence and absence of -hederin. This approach identified three hypersensitive strains carrying gene deletions for components of the transcription related proteins SWI/SNF, RNA polymerase II and the RSC complex. Saponin cytotoxicity is often attributed to membrane damage, however -hederin did not induce hypersensitivity with an aminophospholipid translocase deletion strain that is frequently hypersensitive to membrane damaging agents. The haploinsufficiency profile of -hederin is most similar to that reported for drugs such as caspofungin that inhibit synthesis of the fungal cell wall. Screening with plant extracts rather than isolated compounds, provides a valuable shortcut in haploinsufficiency screening provided hypersensitive strains are then confirmed as such using purified active principles. 
Application of toxicogenomic profiling to evaluate effects of benzene and formaldehyde: from yeast to human.	Genetic variation underlies a significant proportion of the individual variation in human susceptibility to toxicants. The primary current approaches to identify gene-environment (GxE) associations, genome-wide association studies and candidate gene association studies, require large exposed and control populations and an understanding of toxicity genes and pathways, respectively. This limits their application in the study of GxE associations for the leukemogens benzene and formaldehyde, whose toxicity has long been a focus of our research. As an alternative approach, our published work has applied innovative in vitro functional genomics testing systems, including unbiased functional screening assays in yeast and a near-haploid human bone marrow cell line. Through comparative genomic and computational analyses of the resulting data, human genes and pathways that may modulate susceptibility to benzene and formaldehyde were identified, and the roles of several genes in mammalian cell models were validated. In populations occupationally exposed to low levels of benzene, we applied peripheral blood mononuclear cell transcriptomics and chromosome-wide aneuploidy studies in lymphocytes. In this review, we describe our comprehensive toxicogenomic approach and the potential mechanisms of toxicity and susceptibility genes identified for benzene and formaldehyde, as well as related studies conducted by other researchers. 
Diterpene glycosides and polyketides from Xylotumulus gibbisporus.	Four new tetracyclic diterpene glycosides, namely, sordarins C-F (1-4), and three new -lactone polyketides, namely, xylogiblactones A-C (5-7), along with sordarin were isolated from the ethyl acetate extracts of the fermented broths of Xylotumulus gibbisporus YMJ863. The structures of 1-7 were elucidated on the basis of spectroscopic data analyses. The configurations of 1-4 were deduced by NOESY, molecular modeling, and comparison with the literature. The relative configurations of 5-7 were deduced by X-ray crystallographic analysis of 5. Compounds 1-5 and sordarin were evaluated in an antifungal assay using Candida albicans ATCC 18804, C. albicans ATCC MYA-2876, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae ATCC 2345, and only sordarin exhibited significant antifungal activities against these fungal strains, with MIC values of 64.0, 32.0, and 32.0 g/mL, respectively. The effect of compounds 1-7 and sordarin on the inhibition of NO production in lipopolysaccharide-activated murine macrophages was also evaluated. Compounds 2 and sordarin inhibited NO production with IC50 values of 327.246.6 and 157.124.1 M, respectively.
Proline modulates the Trypanosoma cruzi resistance to reactive oxygen species and drugs through a novel D, L-proline transporter.	Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas' disease, has a metabolism largely based on the consumption of glucose and proline. This amino acid is essential for host cells infection and intracellular differentiation. In this work we identified a proline transporter (TcAAAP069) by yeasts complementation assays and overexpression in Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigotes. TcAAAP069 is mono-specific for proline but presents an unusual feature; the lack of stereospecificity, because it is competitively inhibited by the D- enantiomer. Parasites overexpressing TcAAAP069 have an increased intracellular proline concentration, 2.6-fold higher than controls, as a consequence of a higher proline transport rate. Furthermore, augmented proline concentration correlates with an improved resistance to trypanocidal drugs and also to reactive oxygen species including hydrogen peroxide and nitric oxide, emulating natural physiological situations. The IC50s for nifurtimox, benznidazole, H2O2 and NO. were 125%, 68%, 44% and 112% higher than controls, respectively. Finally, proline metabolism generates a higher concentration (48%) of ATP in TcAAAP069 parasites. Since proline participates on essential energy pathways, stress and drug resistance responses, these results provide a novel target for the development of new drugs for the treatments for Chagas' disease. 
Synthesis and biological evaluation of 2-aminobenzamide derivatives as antimicrobial agents: opening/closing pharmacophore site.	A series of new 2-aminobenzamide derivatives (1-10) has been synthesized in good to excellent yields by adopting both conventional and/or a time-efficient microwave assisted methodologies starting from isatoic anhydride (ISA) and characterized on the basis of their physical, spectral and microanalytical data. Selected compounds of this series were then tested against various bacterial (Bacillus subtilis (RCMB 000107) and Staphylococcus aureus (RCMB 000106). Pseudomonas aeruginosa (RCMB 000102) and Escherichia coli (RCMB 000103) and fungal strains (Saccharomyces cerevisiae (RCMB 006002), Aspergillus fumigatus (RCMB 002003) and Candida albicans (RCMB 005002) to explore their potential as antimicrobial agents. Compound 5 was found to be the most active compound among those tested, which showed excellent antifungal activity against Aspergillus fumigatus (RCMB 002003) more potent than standard Clotrimazole, and moderate to good antibacterial and antifungal activity against most of the other strains of bacteria and fungi. Furthermore, potential pharmacophore sites were identified and their activity was related with the structures in the solution. 
Antiparasitic chaiyaphumines from entomopathogenic Xenorhabdus sp. PB61.4.	A new class of four depsipentapeptides called chaiyaphumines A-D (1-4) was isolated from Xenorhabdus sp. PB61.4. Their structures were elucidated by detailed 1D and 2D NMR experiments and by a Marfey's analysis following flash hydrolysis of the peptide. Verification of the structure was achieved by three-dimensional modeling using NOE-derived distance constraints, molecular dynamics, and energy minimization. Chaiyaphumine A (1) showed good activity against Plasmodium falciparum (IC50 of 0.61 M), the causative agent of malaria, and was active against other protozoal tropical disease causing agents. 
Suppressive drug interactions between antifungals.	In this issue of Chemistry & Biology, Cokol and colleagues report a systematic study of drug interactions between antifungal compounds. Suppressive drug interactions occur more frequently than previously realized and come in different flavors with interesting implications. 
Mode of expression of the positive regulatory genes PHO2 and PHO4 of the phosphatase regulon in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The mode of expression was investigated for two positive regulatory genes, PHO2 and PHO4, whose products are indispensable for the transcriptional control of the structural genes of repressible acid phosphatase and the inorganic phosphate (Pi) transport system in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Northern analysis of poly(A)+ RNA of the wildtype and the pho regulatory mutants with PHO4 DNA as hybridization probe and expressional analysis of a pho4'-'lacZ fused gene on a YEp plasmid revealed that PHO4 is expressed at a low level, constitutively, and independently of the PHO regulatory system and Pi in the medium. Similar analyses with PHO2 DNA indicated that PHO2 is expressed at an even lower level than PHO4, and is repressed by Pi and by the active PHO2 product, possibly at the translational level, while retaining a substantial level of basal activity.
Effect of dimethyl sulphoxide on mitochondrial biogenesis in regenerating rat liver and Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Effect of dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO) on mitochondrial biogenesis in regenerating rat liver and cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae during aerobiosis has been studied by monitoring the cytochrome oxidase activity. A single dose of DMSO (275 mg/100-125 g body wt) to normal rats stimulated cytochrome oxidase activity in liver mitochondria while the same dose to partial hepatectomized rats inhibited the enzyme activity. Administration of low dose of DMSO (92 mg/100-125 g body wt) to partial hepatectomized rats did not alter the enzyme activity. Anaerobic cells of S. cerevisiae on aerobiosis for 2 hr attained cytochrome oxidase activity level on par with aerobic cells. Inclusion of DMSO (275 mg/100 ml) in the growth medium of S. cerevisiae during respiratory adaptation exerted partial inhibitory effect on the formation of cytochrome oxidase at 2 hr period, while the 10-fold concentration inhibited the enzyme formation completely. However, the inhibitory effect of DMSO on enzyme formation was abolished on prolonged growth (18 hr and above), while these doses had no influence on cytochrome oxidase in aerobic cells of S. cerevisiae. The results imply that DMSO may be exerting its effect on the assembly of subunits into active enzyme complex during mitochondrial biogenesis.
Regulation of postreceptor signaling in the pheromone response pathway of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	alpha-Factor pheromone inhibits division of yeast a cells. After prolonged exposure to alpha-factor, the cells adapt to the stimulus and resume cell division. The sst2 mutation is known to inhibit adaptation. This report examines adaptation in scg1 (also designated gpa1) and STE4Hpl (Hpl indicates haploid lethal) mutants that exhibit constitutive activation of the pheromone response pathway. Recovery of the STE4Hpl mutant was blocked by the sst2-1 mutation, whereas recovery of the scg1-7 mutant was not completely blocked by sst2-1. These results indicate that both SST2-dependent and -independent mechanisms regulate postreceptor events in the pheromone response pathway. Down regulation of receptors in response to alpha-factor was independent of the signal that was generated in the scg1 mutant.
The paromomycin resistance mutation (parr-454) in the 15 S rRNA gene of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is involved in ribosomal frameshifting.	The leaky expression of the yeast mitochondrial gene oxi1, containing a framshift mutation (+1), is caused by natural frameshift suppression, as shown previously (Fox and Weiss-Brummer 1980). A drastic decrease in the natural level of frameshifting is found in the presence of the parr-454 mutation, localized at the 3' end of the 15 S rRNA gene. This mutation causes resistance to the antibiotic paromomycin in the yeast strains D273-10B and KL14-4A (Li et al. 1982; Tabak et al. 1982). The results of this study imply that in the yeast strain 777-3A this mutation alone is sufficient for restriction of the level of natural frameshifting but is insufficient to confer resistance to paromomycin. A second mutation, arising spontaneously with a frequency of 10(-4) leads, in combination with the parr-454 mutation, to full paromomycin resistance in strain 777-3A.
The PSO4 gene is responsible for an error-prone recombinational DNA repair pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The induction of mitotic gene conversion and crossing-over in Saccharomyces cerevisiae diploid cells homozygous for the pso4-1 mutation was examined in comparison to the corresponding wild-type strain. The pso4-1 mutant strain was found to be completely blocked in mitotic recombination induced by photoaddition of mono- and bifunctional psoralen derivatives as well as by mono- (HN1) and bifunctional (HN2) nitrogen mustards or 254 nm UV radiation in both stationary and exponential phases of growth. Concerning the lethal effect, diploids homozygous for the pso4-1 mutation are more sensitive to all agents tested in any growth phase. However, this effect is more pronounced in the G2 phase of the cell cycle. These results imply that the ploidy effect and the resistance of budding cells are under the control of the PSO4 gene. On the other hand, the pso4-1 mutant is mutationally defective for all agents used. Therefore, the pso4-1 mutant has a generalized block in both recombination and mutation ability. This indicates that the PSO4 gene is involved in an error-prone repair pathway which relies on a recombinational mechanism, strongly suggesting an analogy between the pso4-1 mutation and the RecA or LexA mutation of Escherichia coli.
PSO4: a novel gene involved in error-prone repair in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The haploid xs9 mutant, originally selected for on the basis of a slight sensitivity to the lethal effect of X-rays, was found to be extremely sensitive to inactivation by 8-methoxypsoralen (8MOP) photoaddition, especially when cells are treated in the G2 phase of the cell cycle. As the xs9 mutation showed no allelism with any of the 3 known pso mutations, it was now given the name of pso4-1. Regarding inactivation, the pso4-1 mutant is also sensitive to mono- (HN1) or bi-functional (HN2) nitrogen mustards, it is slightly sensitive to 254 nm UV radiation (UV), and shows nearly normal sensitivity to 3-carbethoxypsoralen (3-CPs) photoaddition or methyl methanesulfonate (MMS). Regarding mutagenesis, the pso4-1 mutation completely blocks reverse and forward mutations induced by either 8MOP or 3CPs photoaddition, or by gamma-rays. In the cases of UV, HN1, HN2 or MMS treatments, while reversion induction is still completely abolished, forward mutagenesis is only partially inhibited for UV, HN1, or MMS, and it is unaffected for HN2. Besides severely inhibiting induced mutagenesis, the pso4-1 mutation was found to be semi-dominant, to block sporulation, to abolish the diploid resistance effect, and to block induced mitotic recombination, which indicates that the PSO4 gene is involved in a recombinational pathway of error-prone repair, comparable to the E. coli SOS repair pathway.
Relationships between structure, toxicity and genetic effects in Salmonella typhimurium and Saccharomyces cerevisiae for substituted aniline mustards.	A series of 4-substituted aniline mustards of widely varying reactivities have been evaluated for their mutagenic effects in Salmonella typhimurium strains of varying uvrB gene and plasmid status, and for their ability to cause mitotic crossing-over in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The 4-methyl aniline mustard N,N-bis(2-chloroethyl)-4-methylaniline and its corresponding half-mustard N-(2-chloroethyl)-4-methylaniline showed widely different effects in the various bacterial strains, with the half-mustard being much less toxic than the full mustard in the uvrB- strain TA100. However, in the uvrB+ strain TA1978+, possessing an intact excision repair system, both compounds were equally toxic and the full mustard was the more mutagenic. Both compounds were equally effective in promoting mitotic crossing-over in yeast. For a series of 4-substituted full mustards, the toxicity in S. typhimurium strain TA100 correlated with substituent electronic parameters in the same way as does mammalian cell toxicity, supporting the view that the primary mode of toxicity is via DNA cross-linking, even for unreactive analogues. However, there were no obvious correlations between substituent physiochemical properties and mutagenic potential in bacteria, suggesting that mutagenic events are subject to a variety of influences other than the reactivity of the mustard group. In contrast, the most chemically reactive compounds were the most toxic and most recombinogenic in yeast.
Genotoxicity of nitrosated ranitidine.	The genotoxicity of ranitidine, widely used in the therapy of peptic ulcers, and of nitrosated ranitidine was examined in test systems with the bacteria Salmonella typhimurium for gene mutations, and with the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae D7 for reverse mutations and gene conversion. Under the experimental conditions applied, ranitidine was negative in both systems, while the product obtained by nitrosation in vitro was mutagenic for Salmonella strains TA100 and TA98 with and without metabolic activation. The largest increase of his+ revertants, 3 times greater than the control, was obtained in strain TA100 in the absence of S9 fraction. Nitrosated ranitidine was also recombinogenic for the yeast S. cerevisiae.
Comparative studies of the recombinogenic action of some pesticides on yeasts in the absence and presence of metabolic activation]	Recombinogenic activity of five pesticides (dimatyph, endosulfan, cypermethrin, picloram and crotoxyphos) has been studied on yeasts Saccharomyces cerevisiae under conditions of metabolic activation and without it. Treatment of yeasts by microsomal activating mixtures (S9 fractions of hens and rats) promoted no formation of active metabolites. Active pesticides (dimatyph, endosulfan, picloram) under conditions of metabolic activation induced the detoxication process.
Photodynamic activities of food additive dyes on the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Photodynamic cell-inactivating activities of food additive dyes on the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae were investigated. Activities of dyes not permitted as food additives were also examined. Red No. 105 (rose bengal), Red No. 3 (erythrosine) and Red No. 104 (phloxine), which are permitted as food additives, markedly inactivated yeast cells by photodynamic action. Eosine, matius yellow and guinia green B, which are not permitted, also exhibited moderate cell-inactivating activity by photodynamic action. None of the dyes used in this experiment exhibited petite induction by photodynamic action.
Mechanism of stimulation of endogenous fermentation in yeast by carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone.	Addition of the uncoupler and protonophore carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) to starved yeast cells starts endogenous alcoholic fermentation lasting about 20 min. Hexose 6-phosphates, fructose 2,6-bisphosphate, and pyruvate accumulate in less than 2 min after addition of CCCP from almost zero concentration to concentrations which correspond to 1/5-1/10 of the steady-state concentrations during fermentation of glucose. CCCP immediately causes a decrease of the intracellular cytosolic pH from 6.9 to 6.4. This change activates adenylate cyclase (Purwin, C., Nicolay, K., Scheffers, W.A., and Holzer, H. (1986) J. Biol. Chem. 261, 8744-8749) and leads to the previously observed transient increase of cyclic AMP. It is shown here that the following enzymes known from in vitro experiments to be activated by cyclic AMP-dependent phosphorylation are activated in the CCCP-treated starved yeast cells in vivo: glycogen phosphorylase, trehalase (pH 7), 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase. The activation of 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase leads to an accumulation of fructose 2,6-bisphosphate, which is known from in vitro experiments to activate 6-phosphofructo-1-kinase and to inhibit fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase. All effects observed in the intact yeast cells fit with the idea that the CCCP-initiated activation of adenylate cyclase leads to a sequence of events which by protein phosphorylation and allosteric effects initiates endogenous alcoholic fermentation.
In vivo and in vitro evidence for a proton leakage through the inner mitochondrial membrane in a mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were isolated which supported three mutations: two unlinked chromosomic mutations conferring thermosensitivity and cold sensitivity respectively, and a mitochondrial mutation conferring paromomycin sensitivity. When studied on isolated mitochondria, these mutants exhibited low phosphorylation efficiency and great proton permeability of their inner mitochondrial membrane. Experiments were carried out on whole cells: determination of growth rates, cellular yields and cellular respiration, either in the presence of triethyltin, an ATP synthase inhibitor, or in the presence of uncoupler, demonstrating that the proton leakage is actually a physiological phenomenon linked to the cold-sensitive phenotype. Experiments performed on isolated mitochondria confirmed the existence of such a proton leakage.
The interaction of quinone analogues with wild-type and ubiquinone-deficient yeast mitochondria.	The interaction of the exogenous quinones, duroquinone (DQ) and the decyl analogue of ubiquinone (DB) with the mitochondrial respiratory chain was studied in both wild-type and a ubiquinone-deficient mutant of yeast. DQ can be reduced directly by NADH dehydrogenase, but cannot be reduced by succinate dehydrogenase in the absence of endogenous ubiquinone. The succinate-driven reduction of DQ can be stimulated by DB in a reaction inhibited 50% by antimycin and 70-80% by the combined use of antimycin and myxothiazol, suggesting that electron transfer occurs via the cytochrome b-c1 complex. Both DQ and DB can effectively mediate the reduction of cytochrome b by the primary dehydrogenases through center o, but their ability to mediate the reduction of cytochrome b through center i is negligible. Two reaction sites for ubiquinol seem to be present at center o: one is independent of endogenous Q6 with a high reaction rate and a high Km; the other is affected by endogenous Q6 and has a low reaction rate and a low Km. By contrast, only one ubiquinol reaction site was observed at center i, where DB appears to compete with endogenous Q6. DB can oxidize most of the pre-reduced cytochrome b, while DQ can oxidize only 50%. On the basis of these data, the possible binding patterns of DB on different Q-reaction sites and the requirement for ubiquinone in the continuous oxidation of DQH are discussed.
Inhibition of yeast mitochondrial F1-ATPase, F0F1-ATPase and submitochondrial particles by rhodamines and ethidium bromide.	ATP hydrolysis by F1-ATPase is strongly inhibited by cationic rhodamines; neutral rhodamines are very poor inhibitors. Rhodamine 6G is a noncompetitive inhibitor of purified F0F1-ATPase and submitochondrial particles, however, an uncompetitive inhibitor of F1-ATPase (KI approximately equal to 2.4 microM for all three enzyme forms). Ethidium bromide is a noncompetitive inhibitor of F0F1-ATPase, submitochondrial particles and also F1-ATPase (KI approximately equal to 270 microM). Neither of the inhibitors affects the negative cooperativity (nH approximately equal to 0.7). The non-identical binding sites for rhodamine 6G and ethidium bromide are located on the F1-moiety and are topologically distinct from the catalytic site. Binding of the inhibitors prevents the conformational changes essential for energy transduction. It is concluded that the inhibitor binding sites are involved in proton translocation. In F1-ATPase, binding of MgATP at a catalytic site causes conformational changes, which allosterically induce the correct structure of the rhodamine 6G binding site. In F0F1-ATPase, this conformation of the F1-moiety exists a priori, due to allosteric interactions with F0-subunits. The binding site for ethidium bromide on F1-ATPase does not require substrate binding at the catalytic site and is not affected by F0F1-subunit interactions.
Effect of ethanol on activity of the plasma-membrane ATPase in, and accumulation of glycine by, Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The pH optimum of the ATPase activity in plasma membranes from Saccharomyces cerevisiae NCYC 431 from 8 h cultures was around 6.5 and that in membranes from organisms from 16 h cultures near 6.0. The Km[ATP] of the enzyme was virtually unaffected by the age of the culture from which organisms were harvested, although the Vmax of the enzyme in membranes from organisms from 8 h cultures was higher than that for organisms from 16 h cultures. Ethanol non-competitively inhibited ATPase activity in membranes, although the inhibition constant for the enzyme from organisms from 8 h cultures was lower than that from organisms from 16 h cultures. Glycine accumulation by the general amino acid permease was non-competitively inhibited by ethanol. Inhibition constants were virtually the same for glycine uptake by deenergized organisms from 8 h and 16 h cultures, but under energized conditions the value was greater for organisms from 16 h rather than 8 h cultures. The data indicate that inhibition of plasma-membrane ATPase activity by ethanol could account, at least in part, for inhibition of glycine accumulation by ethanol.
Function and regulation of yeast copperthionein.	A functional copperthionein (CUP1) gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is essential to prevent copper-mediated cytotoxicity, but is dispensable for cell growth in the absence of exogenous copper. The CUP1 gene is negatively autoregulated, as observed by the necessity for a functional CUP1 gene in order to repress basal level transcription from the CUP1 promoter. Both the copper protection and transcriptional autoregulatory functions can be complemented by expression in yeast of either of two monkey metallothionein isoform cDNAs. The expression of the CUP1 gene is induced at the level of transcription by copper via cis-dominant upstream control sequences which are tandemly repeated. Synthetic CUP1 upstream control sequences confer copper inducibility on a heterologous yeast promoter in a manner similar to that observed for the authentic upstream control region.
The comparative influence of substituted phenols (especially chlorophenols) on yeast cells assayed by electro-rotation and other methods.	The toxicity of 31 phenols was studied by electro-rotation of yeast cells. Control yeast cells show both anti-field and co-field rotation, depending upon the field frequency applied. After treatment with supra-threshold amounts of phenols the anti-field rotation is weakened or abolished and a stronger co-field rotation can be seen. The proportion of cells showing the co-field rotation was found to be a sensitive measure of toxicity. Doses of 2.2 mumol/l of pentachlorophenol, or of 0.3 mumol/l of pentabromophenol were detectable after 3 h incubation at pH 4.0. At a given pH, the toxicity of the chlorophenols correlated extremely well with their octanol:water partition coefficients (Pow). The complete set of phenols showed fair overall correlation with Pow, but less good correlation with their acidity constants (pKa). In particular the toxicity of a given phenol was less than predicted from its pKa if the incubation pH was higher than the pKa. Biochemical assays on 23 of the phenols showed that the rotational sensitivity runs closely parallel to the sensitivities of cell growth rate and of the plasmamembrane ATPase, but less closely to the inhibition of purine incorporation. It appears that the electro-rotation method provides a useful and rapid test for the presence of organic ecotoxins. The test enables us to distinguish differences between single cells, and is comparable in sensitivity to biochemical tests that use vesicles or homogenates derived from a cell population.
Effect of ethanol on the glucose-induced movements of protons across the plasma membrane of Saccharomyces cerevisiae NCYC 431.	The study of glucose-induced proton fluxes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae NCYC 431 showed a decrease of proton net efflux by ethanol across the plasma membrane of energized cells. Furthermore a negative net proton efflux (an influx) occurred from a given ethanol concentration (between 1.3 and 1.5 M) whatever the experimental conditions used, thus allowing the definition of a nil-net exchange step where no net movement of protons across the plasma membrane could be observed. A new technique of ethanol tolerance determination in yeast based upon a correlation for the same ethanol concentration between both the collapse of the proton gradient and the growth cessation in cultures supplemented with ethanol after 8 h incubation was proposed. The defined method also showed a cumulated effect of temperature and ethanol on Saccharomyces cerevisiae NCYC 431.
Turnover of abnormal proteins in Bacillus megaterium and Saccharomyces cerevisiae: differences between in vivo and in vitro degradation.	Degradation of abnormal proteins in Bacillus megaterium and Saccharomyces cerevisiae in vivo was compared with that in cell-free extracts. Protein degradation in vivo, when the cells were labelled with 14C-leucine during growth in the presence of ethionine, was affected by the concentration of the analogue used. Proteins synthesized in the presence of 0.2-1 mM ethionine were degraded most rapidly in both organisms. The proteolytic enzyme system of yeast degraded the analogue-containing proteins in vitro faster than the normal proteins. This holds also for proteins synthesized in the presence of 5 mM ethionine, whose degradation in vivo was impaired. The proteolytic system of B. megaterium, on the other hand, was unable in vitro to differentiate between normal and abnormal proteins. Denatured proteins underwent preferential degradation over normal and ethionine-containing proteins.
Antimicrobial effects of some mono- and bishydrazones.	Antibacterial, antifungal and antiprotozoal effects of nine mono- and bishydrazones of glycolaldehyde, glyoxal, methoxyacetaldehyde and glutaraldehyde were studied using eight model organisms. It was found that bishydrazones are much more efficient antimicrobial agents than monohydrazones in the case of all model microorganisms.
Amino acid uptake and protein synthesis in germinating spores of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Spores transferred to germination medium incorporated exogenous lysine into protein within 20 min but required 2-3 to begin incorporation of exogenous proline or alanine. During this time considerable uptake of amino acids into the intracellular pool occurred. Cycloheximide added to the germination medium inhibited incorporation of lysine into protein but did not lessen in accumulation in the pool. Spore germination was inhibited by cycloheximide.
On the mode of action of a new antifungal antibiotic, aculeacin A: inhibition of cell wall synthesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The mode of action of a new antifungal antibiotic, aculeacin A, was studied with the cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In the presence of aculeacin A, the distinct decrease of viable cells was observed. The most of cells treated with aculeacin A lysed with releasing intracellular substances at the tips of their buds. This lysis was considered to be due to the inhibition of cell wall synthesis, because the incorporation of glucose into the cell wall glucan was significantly reduced. Aculeacin A also had a weak activity to burst the protoplasts of S. cerevisiae at a relatively high concentration.
Evidence that specific and "general" control of ornithine carbamoyltransferase production occurs at the level of transcription in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Ornithine carbamoyltransferase synthesis is subject to two major regulatory systems in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. One system is specific for the arginine biosynthetic enzymes, whereas the other appears to be general, acting on a variety of other amino acid pathways as well. We observed that the synthetic capacity for continued ornithine carbamoyltransferase synthesis had the same short half-life (ca. 5 to 7 min) whether repression of enzyme production was brought about by action of the specific or general control system. We present evidence suggesting that both control systems regulate accumulation or ornithine carbamoyltransferase-specific synthetic capacity, rather than modulating its expression.
Negative interactions between amino acid and methylamine/ammonia transport systems of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The transport of methylamine (methylammonium ion) and ammonia (ammonium ion) is accomplished in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by means of a specific active transport system. L-Amino acids are noncompetitive inhibitors of methylamine transport. This inhibition is relieved or eliminated in mutant strains that have a reduced ability to transport amino acids. The inhibition of methylamine transport occurs immediately upon the addition of amino acids to the assay system and persists until the external amino acid pool is depleted. The degree of inhibition observed is a direct function of the rate of amino acid transport. Both methylamine and ammonia are capable of inhibiting amino acid transport. The inhibition of amino acid transport is eliminated in mutant strains that cannot transport methylamine and ammonia.
Induction of mitotic crossing over in Saccharomyces by p-Toluidine.	p-Toluidine, a carcinogen for rats, does not cause genetic damage when tested directly in Saccharomyces cerevisiae; however, certain chemical derivatives of p-toluidine do induce gene conversion when tested directly. It may be suspected by analogy with other aromatic amines that p-toluidine, a monocyclic aromatic amine, requires conversion to breakdown products which are then the genetically active and carcinogenic entities. The Udenfriend hydroxylation medium, which has been used previously to show the genetic activity of certain other aromatic amines and nitrosamines, was used in the incubation of p-toluidine with Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The resulting breakdown products, but not the parent compound, induced reciprocal mitotic recombination in a diploid strain D-3. Recombination was monitored by using induced homozygosity of the red ade 2 marker, and the reciprocal nature of the event was confirmed by observing the simultaneous homozygosity of two peripheral markers.
Extra-chromosomal inheritance of rhodamine 6G resistance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Rhodamine 6G was found to be a specific inhibitor of aerobic growth of yeast, having no effect on fermentative growth. A single step spontaneous mutant of S. cerevisiae resistant to rhodamine 6G was isolated, which showed cross-resistance to the ATPase inhibitors venturicidin and triethyltin, to the uncoupler 1799, to bongkrekic acid and to cycloheximide, but not to oligomycin or to the inhibitors of mito chondrial protein synthesis, chloramphenicol and erythromycin. The genetic analysis of this mutant showed that both nuclear and cytoplasmic (but apparently not mitochondrial) factors may be involved in the determination of the mutation. The behaviour is discussed as a possible function for 2 micron circular (omicron) DNA.
Manganese mutagenesis in yeast. VI. Mn2+ uptake, mitDNA replication and ER induction: comparison with other divalent cations.	A medium was found in which manganese efficiently induces erythromycin-resistant mitochondrial mutations, and which is suitable for measuring Mn2+ uptake and the labelling of DNA (fig. 1). Mn2+ uptake is stimulated by glucose and slowed down by cycloheximide (Fig 2). Mg2+ competes with Mn2+ uptake much stronger than does Zn2+ (Fig. 3). All of the conditions which favour Mn2+ uptake also favour induction of erythromycin-resistant mutations (Tables 3, 4). Mn2+ strongly inhibits protein synthesis (Table 1). Nuclear DNA replication is also strongly inhibited by this cation, while mitochondrial DNA replication is only weakly inhibited during the first 3 h of labelling, but there is small if any increase of the label incorporation between the 3rd 6th h of labelling (Table 2). The relation between label incorporation into mitDNA and mutation induction by manganese is not straightforward (Table 5). From among 11 divalent cations tested, only Mn2+ was capable of inducing mitochondrial erythromycin-resistant mutations (Table 6).
Newer antimycotics. III. Halogen- and nitro-substituted anilines and phenols (author's transl)]	The author produced a number of halogeno- and nitro-derivatives of anilines and phenols, investigated their antimicrobial efficiency in vitro, further the toxicity on mice of their most effective representatives. From the author's results it can be concluded that trihalogenoanilines and tetrachloroaniline exerted a relatively strong fungistatic activity with a broad spectrum of efficiency (Tab. 2) likewise to the polyhalogenophenols and halogenonitrophenols (Tab. 3). The acute toxicity of the most effective halogenoanilines was relatively small; they were found to be significantly less toxic than halogenophenols and tetramethyl-thiuramdisulfide (Tab. 5). On the basis of the intensive fungistatic activity and small toxicity of the tri- and tetrahalogenoanilines, it seems that a number of representatives of these types of chemical compounds could be given a role in the chemotherapy of superficial human and animal dermatomycoses, and also in the chemoprophylaxis of certain phytomycoses.
Yeast hexokinase mutants.	Using yeast mutants, it is shown that growth on glucose occurs even in the absence of both hexokinase A and hexokinase B; fructose growth requires at least one of these two enzymes. Expression of hexokinase A and of glucokinase seem to be regulated.
The influence of tetraphenylborates (hydrophobic anions) on yeast cell electro-rotation.	The action of a series of tetraphenylborate ion (TPB) derivatives on yeast cells was studied by electro-rotation of the pre-treated cells. TPB derivatives in which all four phenyl groups were substituted with fluorine, chlorine or trifluoromethyl were much more toxic than the unsubstituted compound, the effect increasing dramatically with increasing size of substituents. These observations suggest that the toxicity of these hydrophobic ions is determined mainly by their size and possibly also by the chemical inductivity of their substituent groups. The order of the toxicities of these ions was in fair agreement with literature values for their translocation rates across artificial bilayers. Incubation times of 3 h were used as standard, longer incubations (up to 48 h) showed that the number of cells affected by low doses of TPB increased with the logarithm of time after the first hour of incubation. Although measurements of the percentage of cells showing co-field rotation showed that controls were not adversely affected by incubations as long as 9 h, rotation spectra showed that some cells suffer loss of internal conductivity during extended incubations. Decrease of the pH of the incubation medium, or inclusion of high concentrations of NaCl or KCl, potentiated the effects of these hydrophobic ions. The toxicity developed slowly, and the sensitivity of the assay was only very weakly dependent on the cell suspension density.
'Petite' mutagenesis by anticancer drugs in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The mitochondria of cancer cells are potential targets for chemotherapy. Drugs which primarily affect mitochondrial DNA can be screened using a 'petite' mutagenesis assay in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We have used this approach to estimate the antimitochondrial effects of a range of current clinical and experimental antitumour drugs with varying modes of action. Of agents currently in the clinic, the antimetabolites 5-fluorouracil and methotrexate were extremely effective in inducing this respiratory defect, providing cells were growing during treatment. Adriamycin, BCNU, bleomycin, methyl CCNU, cis-platinum, chlorambucil, daunomycin, nitracine, nitrogen mustard and hycanthone were also weakly effective 'petite' mutagens, in either growing or non-growing conditions. None of the currently used agents but some experimental drugs induced high numbers of 'petite' mutants during growing or non-growing conditions. To date, where such agents have been tested clinically, they have proved either ineffective or very toxic. It is possible that antimitochondrial effects on non-proliferating cellular tissues such as the heart might cause unacceptable toxicity and preclude the clinical use of such agents. For those agents effective against proliferating cells, the mitochondria could be an important target for chemotherapy in some cell types. This type of drug appears relatively uncommon in the clinic at present. The 'petite' mutagenesis assay could be more widely used as a screen to optimize this property in development of analogues of current clinical agents, or in developing new types of anticancer drug.
Sensitivity of fructose-1,6-biphosphatase from yeast, liver and skeletal muscle to fructose-2,6-biphosphate and 5'-adenosine monophosphate.	As a prerequisite for future studies on the possible effect of sulphite, an anti-microbial agent, on gluconeogenesis in yeast, a comparative study of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase), a key enzyme of gluconeogenesis, from yeast, liver and skeletal muscle is reported. In contrast to FBPase from yeast or liver, FBPase from skeletal muscle is approximately 1000-fold more sensitive to inhibition by 5' adenosine monophosphate and 30 to 250-fold less sensitive to inhibition by fructose-2,6-bisphosphate. The kinetic properties of the FBPases, determined by the ratios R(Mg2+/Mn2+) and R (pH 7/9) of the enzyme activities, measured at 10 mM Mg2+ and 2 mM Mn2+ and at pH 7.0 and 9.0, respectively, show a drastic difference between the skeletal muscle and the yeast or liver enzymes. The data support the idea that the enzymes from yeast and liver function in gluconeogenesis, whereas the enzyme from skeletal muscle is involved in other biological functions.
In-vitro activity of antifungal agents in combination with four quinolones.	The antifungal activity of amphotericin B (AMB), mepartricin (MEPA), 5-fluorocytosine (5FC) and three imidazoles was tested in combination with each of four quinolones against 60 clinical yeast isolates. The inhibitory activity of AMB and MEPA was marginally enhanced by the azaquinolones, nalidixic acid (NAL) and enoxacin (ENO), but there was antagonism when combined with the fluorinated quinolones ciprofloxacin (CIP) and norfloxacin (NOR). All quinolones except NAL partially antagonised 5FC. Miconazole (MCZ), ketoconazole (KTZ) and itraconazole (ITZ) were each found to be synergistic with low concentrations of the quinolones, and also with high concentrations of NAL and ENO, but were strongly antagonised by high concentrations of CIP and NOR.
Automated spectrophotometric assay for cell division regulation in yeast.	A spectrophotometric assay is presented for monitoring the regulation of cell division by the polypeptide alpha-factor in cultures of living cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast. This assay is simple, automated, and may have wider application in the study of other eucaryotic cells that do not require anchorage for cell growth. The kinetics of absorbance change were monitored continuously over time in yeast cell cultures that were mixed and aerated in cuvettes fitted with top-loading propeller stirrers. The absorbance doubling time. TD(Abs), was identical to the cell number doubling time in the absence of cell division arrest by alpha-factor. alpha-Factor lengthened the TD(Abs) during division arrest. At pH 5.8, 10(5) 381G cells/ml, the Khalf-maximal was 250 +/- 50 nM alpha-factor for the TD(Abs) increase during arrest, with a maximum increase of five-fold. After a period of time the TD(Abs) abruptly shortened. This is defined as the spectrophotometric recovery time (RTspec) and was compared to the time of recovery that is due to the reinitiation of cell division monitored by bud emergence (RTBE). RTBE occurred 40 +/- 5 min prior to RTspec when recovery was spontaneous or was artificially induced by the removal of alpha-factor (pH 5.8, 381G). The difference between RTBE and RTspec was independent of alpha-factor concentration between 0.05 and 1 microM and cell concentration between 1 and greater than or equal to 25 x 10(5) cells/ml (pH 5.8, 381G) but was both pH and cell strain dependent. At pH 5.8 and 2.7 the recovery from arrest occurred by inactivation of alpha-factor. The TD(Abs) increase during arrest appears to be due to an alpha-factor-induced inhibition of net cell mass increase, an effect that has not been reported previously. Evidence is presented that this process is also correlated with the formation of cell projections.
Characterization of nystatin-resistant mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and preparation of sterol intermediates using the mutants.	Analysis of sterols of Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutants N3, N15, N26, and N3H, defective in sterol biosynthesis, was performed. Strains N3, N15, and N26 were isolated from their mother strain, M10, by screening with nystatin (Nagai et al. (1980) Mie Med. J. 30, 215-224), and strain N3H was isolated from N3 as a doubly-mutated strain. The main sterols of N3, N15, N26, and N3H were ergosta-7,22-dienol, ergost-8-enol, cholesta-5,7,24-trienol, and ergosta-7,22,24(28)-trienol, respectively. The former three strains were characterized as defective in delta 5-desaturation, delta 8--delta 7 isomerization, and C-24 transmethylation. Strain N3H was found to be defective in delta 5-desaturation as well as in delta 24(28)-reduction. However, the defect of N26 and N3H was suggested to be leaky, since small amounts of ergosterol and ergosta-7,22-dienol were found in these mutants, respectively. In N15, an accumulation (2% in total sterols) of the compound likely to be hydroxylated sterol was found. By aerobic adaptation of these strains, the accumulation of these strains, the accumulations of ergosta-7,22-dienol (22 mg/g dry cells), ergosta-7,22,24(28)-trienol (24 mg), ergosta-8,24(28)-dienol (18 mg), and cholesta-8,24-dienol (22 mg) reached a maximum in N3, N3H, N15, and N26 after 20, 20, 30, and 30 h, respectively. These strains appear to be useful for making 14C-labeled and non-labeled preparations of the above sterols.
Hyper-mutation caused by the reml mutation in yeast is not dependent on error-prone or excision repair.	The reml mutations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae confer a semi-dominant hyper-recombination/hyper-mutation phenotype. Neither reml mutant allele has any apparent meiotic affect. We have examined spontaneous mutation in reml-2 strains and demonstrate that the reml-2 mutation, like reml-1, confers an average 10-fold increase in reversion and forward mutation rates. Unlike certain yeast rad mutations with phenotypes similar to reml, strains containing reml are resistant to MMS and only slightly UV sensitive at very high doses. To understand the mutator phenotype of reml, we have used a double-mutant approach, combining the reml mutation with radiation-sensitive mutations affecting DNA repair. Double mutants of reml-2 and a mutation in the yeast error-prone repair group (rad6-1) or a mutation in excision repair (rad1-2 or rad4) maintain the hyper-mutation phenotype. Since mutation rates remain elevated in these double-mutant strains, it appears as if the mutations which occur in the presence of reml resemble spontaneous mutation since they do not require the action of a repair system.
Factors influencing deactivation of yeast cells exposed to ethanol.	The lyotropic series discovered in 1888 by Hofmeister describes the effect of solutes on the structure and physical chemistry of the aqueous phase. Chaotropic members of the lyotropic series destructure the aqueous phase while antichaotropic solutes act to enhance the structuredness of the aqueous phase. This alteration of the aqueous phase affects the physical structure or physicochemical state of any other phase exposed to the aqueous phase, such as the plasma membrane of any cell. Solute lyotropy is therefore, via its ability to alter the physicochemical state of the plasma membrane, able to modify the processes of yeast cell deactivation (i.e. the processes leading to loss of ability to replicate and to eventual cell death) in the presence of toxic solutes such as ethanol. In this study the effect of a variety of salts and non-ionic solutes upon cell deactivation in the presence of 16% w/v ethanol is explained in terms of the lyotropic series. Chaotropic salts protect against ethanol-induced deactivation and antichaotropic salts enhance the rate of this process. It is proposed that the mechanism by which chaotropic solutes exert their protective effect involves a reduction in the activity coefficient of the ethanol, thereby reducing the concentration of ethanol within the plasma membrane.
Structural and functional studies of the amino terminus of yeast metallothionein.	Purified yeast copper-metallothionein lacks 8 amino-terminal residues that are predicted from the DNA sequence of its gene. The removed sequence is unusual for metallothionein in its high content of hydrophobic and aromatic residues and its similarity to mitochondrial leader sequences. To study the significance of this amino-terminal cleavage, several mutations were introduced into the metallothionein coding gene, CUP1. One mutant, which deletes amino acid residues 2-8, had a minor effect on the ability of the molecule to confer copper resistance to yeast but did not affect CUP1 gene regulation. A second mutation, which changes two amino acids adjacent to the cleavage site, blocked removal of the extension peptide but had no effect on copper detoxification or gene regulation. Immunofluorescence studies showed that both the wild-type and these two mutant proteins are predominantly cytoplasmic with no evidence for mitochondrial localization. The cleavage site mutation allowed isolation and structural characterization of a full length metallothionein polypeptide. The copper content and luminescent properties of this molecule were identical to those of the truncated wild-type protein indicating a homologous cluster structure. Moreover, the amino-terminal peptide was selectively removed by various endopeptidases and an exopeptidase suggesting that it does not participate in the tertiary fold. These results argue that the amino-terminal peptide is not required for either the structural integrity or biological function of yeast metallothionein.
Changes in 45Ca and 109Cd uptake, membrane potential and cell pH in Saccharomyces cerevisiae provoked by Cd2+.	The effect of Cd2+ poisoning of Saccharomyces cerevisiae on 45Ca, 109Cd and [14C]tetraphenylphosphonium (TPP) uptake and cell pH was examined. At Cd2+ concentrations that produced substantial K+ efflux the rates of uptake of 45Ca, 109Cd and [14C]TPP increased progressively during incubation of the cells with Cd2+, and the cell pH was lowered concomitantly. The initial rates of uptake of the divalent cations and of TPP were increased in cells pre-loaded with Cd2+, which shows that stimulation of the ion fluxes was exerted by the Cd2+ that accumulated in the cells. The distribution ratio of TPP between cells and medium, however, was decreased by Cd2+. Although hyperpolarization of the cell membrane by Cd2+ cannot be excluded, it is argued that Cd2+ primarily stimulated divalent cation uptake by increasing the cation permeability of the cell membrane allowing the cations to enter the cells more easily.
Model-based relationship between physicochemical properties and inhibitory potency of alkylating 2-furylethylenes on yeast glycolysis.	Inhibitory effects of 35 2-furylethylenes, non-specific alkylating agents, on glycolysis in a respiratory mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were correlated with their 1-octanol/water partition coefficients and the rate constants for reaction with 2-mercaptoacetic acid using physiologically based models. The simplest model explaining the data satisfactorily consists of two-step drug-receptor interaction involving reversible formation of a structurally non-specific non-covalent complex stabilized later covalently. The concentration of the free drug in the receptor surroundings was related to its initial concentration in external medium via a simple form of a disposition function constructed on the basis of time hierarchy of passive membrane transport, non-covalent binding to cell constituents and metabolic inactivation of the drug.
A complex pattern of sensitivity to simple monofunctional alkylating agents exists amongst the rad mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The radiation-sensitive rad mutants of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae exhibit a complex pattern of sensitivity to simple monofunctional alkylating agents. The RAD1, RAD2, RAD4 and RAD14 genes of the RAD3 epistasis group are implicated in the repair of ethylations to DNA. The RAD3, RAD10 and RAD16 genes of this group are not involved. The RAD4 and RAD14 genes have a particular role in repair following exposure to those ethylating agents that preferentially alkylate oxygen, but not to those that preferentially ethylate nitrogen. The RAD1 and RAD2 genes are involved in the repair of damage induced by all the ethylating agents used except EMS. The mutants in this group that are sensitive to ENU were not sensitive to MNU, suggesting that nucleotide excision operates on ethylations but not on methylations. In the RAD6 group, the RAD6 and RAD18 genes are involved in DNA repair after exposure to all the alkylating agents tested, whereas RAD8 appears to have a role in the repair of O-alkylations but not N-alkylations. RAD9 operates in the repair of methylations and ethylations, but does not influence events after exposure to EMS. In the RAD52 group, the mutants tested were sensitive to ENU and DES. Thus some members of all three epistasis groups are involved in the repair of alkylations to DNA.
Participation of ATP in the binding of a yeast replicative complex to DNA.	The activity that replicates yeast DNA in vitro can be isolated from cells of the budding yeast Saccharomyces in a high-Mr (approximately 2 X 10(6] form. Several lines of evidence indicate that this fraction contains a multiprotein replicative complex. A functional assay has been developed for the analysis of the interaction of the replicating activity with DNA. Binding of the activity required Mg2+, but did not require the addition of ATP or the other ribo- or deoxynucleoside triphosphates. However, the ATP analogues adenosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate and adenosine 5'-[beta gamma-imido]triphosphate blocked the binding, suggesting that ATP participates in the interaction at some stage. The binding was template (origin)-specific in either the presence or the absence of ATP and the other nucleoside triphosphates; however, ATP stabilized the replicating activity. The preferential inhibition of binding that was observed in the presence of the DNA topoisomerase II inhibitor coumermycin suggests that the requirement for ATP may be at least partially accounted for by the involvement of this enzyme in the initial interaction of the replicating activity with DNA. Finally, the binding was rapid. In contrast, DNA synthesis displayed a lag when assayed directly without first allowing a period for the replicating activity to bind to the DNA. In addition, binding was 'tight', as judged by the resistance of the protein--DNA complexes to salt in comparison with the relative sensitivity of binding. The replicating activity was not readily displaced from the complexes by exogenous DNAs, either possessing or lacking yeast origins of replication. The results suggest that the interaction of the replicating activity with the DNA occurs in more than one stage.
The isolation and characterization of Ni2+ resistant mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Four Ni2+ resistant mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae have been isolated and characterized. In the accumulation of Ni2+, there was no significant difference between the wild type strain and the Ni2+ resistant mutants. The synthesis of RNA in the yeast was severely inhibited by Ni2+ while inhibition of protein synthesis was less pronounced. The inhibitory effect of Ni2+ on both RNA and protein synthesis in Ni2+ resistant mutants of yeast was less pronounced than in the wild type strain, while four Ni2+ resistant mutants were more sensitive to Cd2+ and Cu2+ than was the wild type strain. Ni2+ resistant mechanism(s) appeared to exist within the cells and differed from those of Cd2+ or Cu2+.
Genetic activity of allyl chloride.	Allyl chloride (3-chloroprene) is mutagenic for Salmonella typhimurium and it induces gene conversions in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. It also displays DNA-modifying activity for E. coli. This is in contrast to a recent study which reported its lack of genetic activity for Salmonella typhimurium.
Yeast mutants with distorted cell membranes as a detection system for antitumor antibiotics.	Yeast mutants with distorted cell membranes, which are selectively inhibited by anticancer antibiotics and are not affected by antibacterial antibiotics, could be of considerable interest as test organisms. They could be used for the isolation of active antitumor substances from complex mixtures of natural compounds.
The lability of the products of mitochondrial protein synthesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A novel method for protein half-life determination.	A method for the determination of the half-life of mitochondrial translation products in yeast in vivo is proposed. The method uses inhibitors of cytoplasmic and mitochondrial protein synthesis and is based on double-labelling pulse-chase techniques, the second label being used to estimate 'post-incorporation' during the 'chase'. For the first time the difference between post-incroporation and the widely known recycling of the label is considered. These studies show that, in the turnover of mitochondrial translation products, the problem is of post-incorporation into mitochondria (especially from the cell sap) is predominant. The results obtained with this procedure indicate that the half-life of the products of mitochondrial protein synthesis in yeast at the late-exponential phase is about 60 min. The results suggest that mitochondrial transplantation products are subject to proteolysis to acid-soluble forms.
Chromosomal mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae affecting the cell wall binding site for killer factor.	Fifty-two killer, factor-resistant, nuclear mutants were isolated from sensitive strains of yeast and assorted into three functional groups. All but one mutant owed their resistance to an alteration in the cell wall binding site for killer. In several mutant strains, an alteration at the site of killer binding was associated with a change in the susceptibility of the cell wall to degradation by glusulase. The killer-binding site could be inactivated by periodate but not by pronase treatment. The nature of the site is discussed.
Janus green resistance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: interaction of nuclear and cytoplasmic factors.	Janus green B was found to be a specific inhibitor of mitochondrial function in yeast. This is consistent with the Janus green specificity in supravital staining of mitochondria. A mutant of S. Cerevisiae resistant to Janus green B was isolated. It shows cross resistance to oligomycin, ethidium bromide and a weak resistance to chlormaphenicol. The mutant was found to be sensitive to cycloheximide and erythromycin. Genetic analysis of this mutant showed that mitochondrial genes are not involved in the determination of Janus Green resistance. Tetrad analysis suggested that two more more nuclear genes are concerned, but many unusal genetic features suggestive of the involvement of a cytoplasmic element remain to be explained.
Dose-rate effects of 8-methoxypsoralen plus 365-NM irradiation on cell killing in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Tow types of dose-rate effect that alter the survival response of haploid yeast cells to 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) plus treatment with irradiation at 365 nm were studied. (1) When the concentration of 8-MOP was varied between 9.2 X 10(-5) and 2.3 X 10(-8) M and the dose rate of 365-nm irradiation kept constant, the efficiency of the irradiation for killing increased relatively to that of 8-MOP whe the concentration of 8-MOP decreased. This indicated that there was no strict reciprocity between radiation dose and concentration of drug. (2) When the dose rate of radiation was varied between 0.66 X 10(3) and 108 X 10(3) J m-2 h-1 and the concentration of 8-MOP was kept constant, the survival of wild-type cells increased strikingly at low dose rates of radiation as compared with high dose rates. Cells responded more to changes at low dose rates than to equal changes a high dose rates. The high resistance of wild-type cells to 8-MOP plus radiation delivered at low dose rates absent from rad 1-3 cells defective in excision-repair. This suggests that the dose-rate effect seen in wild-type cells depended at least in part on an active excision-repair function. At low dose rates of radiation, the shoulder of the survival curve for rad1-3 cells, i.e. the ability to accumulate sub-lethal damage, was increased by a factor of about 2 when compared with that seen at a high dose rate. Thus it is likely that at low dose rates a repair function other than excision-resynthesis may operate in rad1-3 cells.
Effect of anticalmodulin drugs on the action of yeast alpha factor pheromone.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae alpha factor pheromone arrest growth of cells of the a mating type (MAT a) at the G1 phase of the cell cycle. When treatment of MAT a cells with alpha factor was carried out in the presence of anticalmodulin drugs, trifluoperazine or chlorpromazine, the extent of cell growth arrest induced by alpha factor was reduced or even became undetectable. These results lend support to the hypothesis that calmodulin plays a role as mediator in the action of alpha factor on MAT a cells.
Analysis of the energy metabolism after incubation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae with sulfite or nitrite.	After addition of 5 mM sulfite or nitrite to glucose-metabolizing cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae a rapid decrease of the ATP content and an inversely proportional increase in the level of inorganic phosphate was observed. The concentration of ADP shows only small and transient changes. Cells of the yeast mutant pet 936, lacking mitochondrial F1 ATPase, after addition of 5 mM sulfite or nitrite exhibit changes in ATP, ADP and inorganic phosphate very similar to those observed in wild type cells. They key enzyme of glucose degradation, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase was previously shown to be the most sulfite- or nitrite-sensitive enzyme of the glycolytic pathway. This enzyme shows the same sensitivity to sulfite or nitrite in cells of the mutant pet 936 as in wild type cells. It is concluded that the effects of sulfite or nitrite on ATP, ADP and inorganic phosphate are the result of inhibition of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and not of inhibition of phosphorylation processes in the mitochondria. Levels of GTP, UTP and CTP show parallel changes to ATP. This is explained by the presence of very active nucleoside monophosphate kinases which cause a rapid exchange between the nucleoside phosphates. The effects of the sudden inhibition of glucose degradation by sulfite or nitrite on levels of ATP, ADP and inorganic phosphate are discussed in terms of the theory of Lynen (1942) on compensating phosphorylation and dephosphorylation in steady state glucose metabolizing yeast.
Mechanism of action of Pseudomonas syringae phytotoxin, syringomycin. Interaction with the plasma membrane of wild-type and respiratory-deficient strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The effects of the phytotoxin, syringomycin, produced by Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae, were examined on cells of a wild-type and a respiratory-deficient (rho0) mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The growth of both strains in liquid culture was inhibited by 0.5 micrograms syringomycin per ml and higher. Uptake rates of tetraphenylphosphonium and dimethyloxazolidine ions in cell suspensions of both strains increased when 1.5 micrograms per ml syringomycin was added. These responses were kinetically and quantitatively similar in the two strains and indicated increases in electrical potential (cell interior negative) and pH differences (cell interior alkaline) across the plasma membrane. Glucose (0.1 M) enhanced the effect on the electrical potential, was required for the pH changes, and increased the cellular ATP levels. These results show that the effects of syringomycin are energy-dependent and are due to alterations of plasma membrane and not to mitochondrial function.
Immunofluorescence of the microtubular skeleton in growing and drug-treated yeast protoplasts.	The microtubular system in growing protoplasts of Saccharomyces uvarum was visualized by immunofluorescence using the monoclonal antitubulin antibody TU 01. We confirmed the coexistence of regular spindle configuration and extensive cytoplasmic networks in growing protoplasts and also observed a distinct distortion of cytoplasmic microtubules in association with wall removal. After a short period for recovery of protoplasts in nutrient medium a restitution of cytoplasmic microtubules and their resumed contact with the protoplast surface was observed. Treatment of growing protoplasts with nocodazole resulted in the disappearance of spindle and cytoplasmic microtubules in the relevant fraction of the protoplast population. In carbendazime (MBC)-arrested protoplasts spindle microtubules were absent but cytoplasmic microtubules associated with spindle pole bodies were clearly visible. Microtubule reassembly on spindle pole bodies occurred within 30 min after washing out nocodazole as well as carbendazime. The approach using protoplasts suggests a simple way in which the differential effect of antimicrotubule agents can be experimentally tested and the microtubule organizing activity of yeast protoplasts visualized at the population level.
Cloning in Saccharomyces cerevisiae of a cycloheximide resistance gene from the Candida maltosa genome which modifies ribosomes.	We have previously shown that cycloheximide resistance can be induced in a strain of Candida maltosa by modifying ribosomes (M. Takagi, S. Kawai, Y. Takata, N. Tanaka, M. Sunairi, M. Miyazaki, and K. Yano, J. Gen. Appl. Microbiol. 31:267-275, 1985). The present paper describes the cloning of the gene involved in this resistance (designated RIM-C for ribosome modification by cycloheximide) by using a host-vector system of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Modification of 40S ribosomal subunits from yeast with dimethylmaleic anhydride.	Modification of 40S ribosomal subunits from Saccharomyces cerevisiae with dimethylmaleic anhydride (DMMA), a reagent for protein amino groups, is accompanied by loss of polypeptide-synthesizing activity and by dissociation of proteins from the particles. The protein-deficient ribosomal particles, originated from 40S subunits by treatment with dimethylmaleic anhydride at a molar ratio of reagent to particle of 250, can partially reconstitute active subunits upon addition of the corresponding released proteins, and regeneration of the modified amino groups.
High mutagenic activity of 3-azido-1,2-propanediol (azidoglycerol, AG) in strain D7 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	3-Azido-1,2-propanediol (azidoglycerol, AG) showed a high mutagenicity in strain D7 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. At 5 mM it increased the spontaneous frequency of isoleucine revertants 3500 times and the frequency of gene convertants 3000 times during 24 h of growth, reducing the growth rate to 30%. In non-growth conditions, treatment with 150 mM of AG for 3 h reduced cell survival to 60% and enhanced the frequency of isoleucine revertants 490 times and tryptophan-independent convertants 50 times. At equal survival levels, AG was found to be 3000-fold more mutagenic and 200-fold more convertogenic than sodium azide.
Inhibition of yeast respiration and fermentation by benomyl, carbendazim, isocyanates, and other fungicidal chemicals.	The inhibition of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevesiae) metabolism by fungicidal chemicals was investigated. Glucose- or ethanol-dependent yeast respiration was measured with an oxygen electrode, and manometric determination of carbon dioxide release was used to measure fermentation. Both respiration and fermentation were inhibited more by benomyl than by identical molar concentrations of its breakdown product, carbendazim. Butyl isocyanate, another benomyl breakdown product, inhibited respiration more but inhibited fermentation less than the parent compound. Of the isocyanates tested, hexyl isocyanate was the most inhibitory towards both activities. Captan was more active and iprodione less active than benomyl. Because benomyl rapidly broke down to carbendazim when it was prepared in 80% ethanol, only 59% of the dissolved benomyl was intact when it was added to yeast to determine its effect on respiration or fermentation.
Surface colony growth in a controlled nutrient environment. 2 The effect of ethanol.	The effect of feed alcohol in an apparatus designed to study growth rates of surface colonies in constant nutrient conditions was studied. The results obtained indicate that departure from exponential growth in normal conditions is due to accumulation of alcohol in the system.
Induction of mutations by photodynamic action of thiopyronine in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The induction of cytoplasmic and nuclear mutations by the photodynamic action of thiopyronine is demonstrated in a haploid strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae that has been isolated as a photodynamic sensitive mutant. No significant increase in corresponding mutation frequencies could be observed in a strain resistant to photodynamic inactivation by thiopyronine.
Genetic analysis of mutations affecting growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae at low temperature.	A large number of genes control growth of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae at low temperatures (< 10 degrees ). Approximately 47 percent of the mutants selected for inability to grow at 4-5 degrees C show increased sensitivity to cycloheximide. In 3 of 4 cases tested, supersensitivity to cycloheximide and inability to grow at the low temperature segregate together and thus appear to be effects of the same mutation. Since many cold-sensitive mutants of bacteria have been found to have altered ribosomes and since cycloheximide resistance in yeast can be caused by ribosomal changes, this suggests that the mutants having low-temperature-sensitive growth may be defective in ribosome-assembly processes at the low temperatures. Two of the lts loci, lts1 and lts3 have been located on chromosome VII and another two, lts4 and lts10 on chromosome IV. A mutation, cyh10, conferring cycloheximide resistance, but not cold sensitivity, has been located close to the centromere on chromosome II.
Selection of ribosomal mutants by antibiotic suppression in yeast.	Wild-type Saccharomyces cerevisiae is highly resistant to streptomycin. A histidine auxotroph was found which could grow without histidine in the presence of high concentrations of streptomycin. Selection for derivatives of this strain which could be suppressed by much lower concentrations of streptomycin yielded streptomycin-sensitive mutants which are cold-sensitive and have altered ribosomal profiles.
Studies on the regulation of X-prolyl dipeptidyl aminopeptidase activity.	The specific activity of X-prolyl-dipeptidyl aminopeptidase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae grown on glucose-containing medium remains constant during exponential growth and increases less than twofold when cells reach the stationary phase. In cells harvested from exponential growth on glucose-containing medium the specific activity of the enzyme is found to be 20-30% lower than the specific activity observed in media without glucose, containing acetate or ethanol as the carbon source. X-Prolyl-dipeptidyl aminopeptidase is not inactivated after the addition of glucose to stationary phase cells. Growth of the yeast on poor nitrogen sources or under nitrogen-starvation results in a three- to fourfold increase in the level of the enzyme.
Effect of heavy metal interactions on the growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae]	The influence of interactions of cadmium, zinc, lead, and mercury on the growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been studied. Generally the experiments resulted in the following findings: Low zinc concentrations reduce the toxicity of cadmium while high zinc concentrations intensify the effects of cadmium. Zinc does not decrease the growth inhibition by mercury. The actions of cadmium and mercury are not changed by lead, but 5 X 10(-4) M lead prevent completely the increase of the growth intensity caused by zinc. Combinations of toxic concentrations of cadmium and mercury show a synergistic lengthening of the lag period, but their cumulative influence on the growth rate is lower than the sum of the corresponding inhibition effects.
The use of phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride in the study of catabolite inactivation and repression in intact cells of Saccharomyces cervisiae.	Catabolite inactivation of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase, isocitrate lyase, phosphoenolpruvate carboxykinase and malate dehydrogenase in intact cells could be prevented by phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride added 40 min prior to the addition of glucose. Protein synthesis, fermentative and respiratory activity and catabolite repression were not affected. Elimination of catabolite inactivation by the addition of PMSF revealed that catabolite repression started at different times for different enzyme.
In vivo studies on yeast cytochrome c methylation in relation to protein synthesis.	Methylation of cytochrome c was studied in vivo using double label with L-[methyl-3H]methionine and DL-[2-14C]methionine. In pulse-chase experiments the cytochrome c associated with the mitochondrial fraction possessed a higher ratio of 3H/14C label, suggesting the presence of methylated cytochrome c. The appearance of methylated cytochrome c in mitochondria showed no lag phase. The inhibition of cytochrome c methylation in presence of cycloheximide indicated that both the methylation and protein synthesis were tightly coupled and cycloheximide selectively inhibited cytochrome c methylation. There was also an indication of selective turnover of incorporation methyl groups in preformed cytochrome c.
Properties of particulate and solubilized phosphatidylserine synthase activity from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Inhibitory effect of choline in the growth medium.	When radiolabeled serine is incubated with a particulate fraction from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, radioactivity is incorporated initially into phosphatidylserine and gradually appears in phosphatidylethanolamine. Because decarboxylation of phosphatidylserine is blocked by hydroxylamine, phosphatidylserine synthase can be assayed separately. The yeast phosphatidylserine synthase activity 1) exhibits a divalent cation requirement; 2) is stimulated by exogenous CDP-diolein (apparent Km = 0.17 mM); 3) has an apparent Km = 4 mM for L-serine; 4) has a neutral pH optimum; 5) is inhibited by p-hydroxymercuribenzoate; and 6) is reversible in the presence of 5'-CMP, but not 2'-CMP, 3'-CMP, or 5'-AMP. The phospholipid-synthesizing activity is solubilized with Triton X-100 and the enzymatic parameters have been compared with the particulate form of the enzyme. Detergent extracts catalyze the conversion of exogenous purified [31P]CDP-diglyceride to [32P]phosphatidylserine in the presence of Mn2+ and L-serine. Enzyme preparations from cells grown in the presence of choline, that have reduced phospholipid methylation activity (Waechter, C. J., Steiner, M. R., and Lester, R. L. (1969) J. Biol. Chem. 244, 3419-3422), also have substantially less phosphatidylserine synthase activity compared to identical preparations grown in the absence of choline. When choline, phosphocholine, CDP-choline, and phosphatidylcholine are present in vitro, there is no direct inhibitory effect on phosphatidylserine synthase activity. While the inclusion of choline in the growth medium caused a significant reduction in phosphatidylserine synthase activity, it did not appreciably effect the apparent Km values for L-serine and CDP-diglyceride. These results are consistent with choline-grown cells containing less phosphatidylserine synthase activity because of lower amounts of enzyme present or perhaps less active enzyme due to covalent modification.
Regulation of alpha-galactosidase synthesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and effect of cerulenin on the secretion of this enzyme.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae -136ts MEL10 (a thermosensitive mutant whose RNA synthesis is inhibited at 37 degrees C but is normal at 23 degrees C), when grown at 23 degrees C in the presence of galactose, melibiose or L-arabinose, these cells synthesize alpha-galactosidase mRNA. In the simultaneous presence of both galactose and glucose the transcription of alpha-galactosidase mRNA is blocked. Glucose also interferes with mRNA translation, but the degree of inhibition depends on concentration and time of addition of the hexose to induced cells. It has been found that the final concentration of alpha-galactosidase produced by induced cells when transferred at the non-permissive temperature (37 degrees C) is inversely proportional to the incubation time in glucose. Cerulenin inhibits lipid formation on growing yeasts, but protein synthesis and selective permeability are not affected. The antibiotic partially inhibits secretion of alpha-galactosidase with a parallel accumulation of this enzyme in membranous structures, specially at the level of the plasma membrane. Induction of alpha-galactosidase or cerulenin addition to growing cells, results in changes in the polypeptide composition of the plasma membrane.
Direct selection of Saccharomyces cerevisiae resistant to the antibiotic G418 following transformation with a DNA vector carrying the kanamycin-resistance gene of Tn903.	We have developed a new procedure for selecting yeast transformants without the need for complementing auxotrophic markers. The procedure is based on resistance to antibiotic G418 imparted to transformants by recombinant DNA vectors. We constructed several Escherichia coli-yeast shuttle vectors containing the kanamycin (G418)-resistance gene of Tn903, plus several yeast genes making dual selections possible. The efficiency for selecting G418-resistant transformants was dependent upon several factors including the composition of the growth medium and the time at which G418 selective pressure was administered. Media which contained levels of salts found in yeast nitrogen base rendered cells partially to completely resistant to G418 and could not be used for selecting G418-resistant transformants. On the other hand, untransformed cells remained sensitive to G418 when grown on YEPD medium thus allowing selection of G418-resistant transformants. A lag phase of 12 to 18 h, following growth at 30 degrees C, was required prior to administration of G418 to achieve maximal transformation frequency. Transformation frequencies ranged from 100 to 700 per micrograms of DNA and varied with the vector and strain used. The kanamycin gene imparted resistance to G418 in either the episomally or chromosomally integrated state. The gene was highly stable in the integrated state, even without selective pressure. The utility of the procedure was demonstrated by selecting transformants of four different strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and by cloning autonomous replication sequences (ARS) from the yeast Kluyveromyces lactis. We believe that this or related procedures could be used to develop transformation systems for many eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells for which no transformation procedure is available.
In vitro site-directed mutagenesis with synthetic DNA oligonucleotides yields unexpected deletions and insertions at high frequency.	We have used in vitro site-directed mutagenesis with synthetic DNA oligonucleotides to introduce single nucleotide mutations in yeast mtDNA. In addition to the expected DNA alterations we also recovered with high frequency mutants with large deletions and insertions which arose through interaction with the synthetic DNA fragment. Characterization of a number of these by DNA sequence analysis has permitted reconstruction of the mutagenic events. In all cases, the DNA fragment had base paired with non-adjacent DNA sequences sometimes more than 1000 nucleotides apart from each other on the target strand. The products of such interactions cannot be avoided due to the non-stringent annealing conditions during complementary DNA strand synthesis. However, deliberate mispairing can be directed precisely, as shown by our ability to specifically delete the 1143-bp intron from the yeast mitochondrial gene coding for large ribosomal RNA with a synthetic DNA fragment consisting of the sequence of the exon borders flanking the intron.
Effect of saccharose and lactose on the resistance of Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast to desiccation]	Incubation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells in solutions containing different sucrose or lactose concentrations (0.25 to 1.0 M) makes the organism more resistant to dehydration. The effect is increased when the cells are incubated for longer periods of time. Apparently, certain intracellular reactions making the yeast survive upon dehydration are initiated under these conditions.
Effects of cadmium, zinc, lead and mercury on the growth and accumulating ability of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomycopsis lipolytica, Candida tropicalis, and Candida utilis]	The effects of cadmium, zinc, lead, and mercury on the growth and the accumulating ability of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomycopsis lipolytica, Candida tropicalis, and Candida utilis had been studied. Generally the experiments resulted in the following findings: Very small concentrations of cadmium and mercury already decrease the growth intensity of the yeasts by lengthening the lag period and the doubling time. The cell yield is not reduced. Zinc increases the productivity of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Saccharomycopsis lipolytica by shortening the lag period. The lead concentrations investigated show no significant influence on the growth. Low pH values intensify the effectiveness of the four heavy metals. The yeasts tested accumulate heavy metals, especially cadmium, to high concentrations and therefore substrates containing heavy metals are only limited suitable for the scp-production with yeasts.
Mutagenic activity of tetryl, a nitroaromatic explosive, in three microbial test systems.	The military explosive N-methyl-N,2,4,6-tetranitroaniline (tetryl) is a direct acting mutagen in three microbial mutagenicity test systems at concentrations as low as 5 microgram/ml. In two of these systems (Neurospora crassa and Salmonella typhimurium) it caused base-pair substitution reversions. In the third (Saccharomyces cerevisiae D4) it caused mitotic gene conversions at two loci. Three nonaromatic explosives (PETN, RDX, HMX) did not exhibit mutagenic activity in the Ames Salmonella test. Further studies on tetryl seem indicated, as past and present human exposure may entail a health risk.
A comparison of the biological properties of androst-5-en-3 beta-ol, a series of (20R)-n-alkylpregn-5-en-3 beta-ols and 21-isopentylcholesterol with those of cholesterol.	The delta 5-sterol, androst-5-en-3 beta-ol, which has no side chain at C-17, did not permit molting of the insect Heliothis zea, growth of either the protozoan Tetrahymena pyriformis, or the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae adapted to anaerobic conditions, nor was the sterol esterified by a mammalian microsomal ACAT preparation. However, the sterol did form a liposome with egg lecithin and, when fed to mice, did inhibit hepatic cholesterol synthesis. 21-Isopentylcholesterol also formed a liposome but neither supported the growth of the yeast nor was metabolized by the protozoan. When sterols, 20(R)-n-alkylpregn-5-en-3 beta-ols, with side chains of varying lengths were added to the medium of the protozoan, maximal esterification with fatty acids occurred with the 20(R)-n-pentyl derivative, and maximal inhibition of tetrahymanol formation occurred with the n-butyl, n-pentyl, and n-hexyl derivatives. In all of the assays cholesterol showed a positive response, either permitting molting or growth, being metabolized, inhibiting sterol or tetrahymanol synthesis, or forming a liposome.
Potentiation of the biological activities of daunomycin and adriamycin by ascorbic acid and dimethylsulfoxide.	L-Ascorbic acid (0.57 mM) and dimethylsulfoxide (14.1 mM) were found to potentiate four times the antibacterial activities of daunomycin and adriamycin in the Staphylococcus aureus test. This effect, however, could not be demonstrated against eukaryotic cells and leukemia P 388 in mice.
The use of yeast cultures for the detection of environmental mutagens using a fluctuation test.	A microbial fluctuation test, modified for the detection of environmental mutagens has been evaluated using a number of strains of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Auxotrophic diploid cultures of yeast which produce prototrophic colonies by both mitotic gene conversion and mutation have been extensively utilized for the detection and evaluation of chemicals showing genetic activity. A number of the yeast strains utilized were shown to be suitable for use in the fluctuation test although the time scales of the experiments were considerably extended (up to 16 days) compared to those involving bacteria. The yeast strains respond to doses of mutagens at least a 100-fold lower than that required in a conventional short exposure treat and plate experiment. In experiments involving the induction of mitotic gene conversion at the tryptophan-5 and histidine-4 loci in the fluctuation test significant increases in prototrophic cells were produced in the presence of the insecticide Lindex (0.05 microng/ml), the preservative Thiomersal (0.0001 microng/ml), a mahogany hair dye (0.01 microng/ml), the herbicide Paraquat (0.02 microng/ml) and the alkylating agent ethyl methane sulphonate (0.1 microng/ml). The results demonstrate that the fluctuation test provides an extremely sensitive assay for the detection of chemicals which show genetic activity in yeast at non-toxic concentrations.
Regulation of phosphatidylethanolamine methyltransferase level by myo-inositol in Saccaromyces cerevisiae.	1. A conditional choline auxotroph was isolated. The growth of this mutant was markedly inhibited by the addition of a low concentration of myo-inositol to the culture medium. The growth inhibition was completely prevented by the addition of choline. 2. When this mutant cell was grown in the presence of myo-inositol, the intracellular level of phosphatidylethanolamine methyltransferase was very low, whereas in the cell grown in the absence of myo-inositol the enzyme level was normal. The addition of myo-inositol to the cell grown in the absence of myo-inositol caused a marked decrease in the methyltransferase level. 3. The reduction in phosphatidylethanolamine methyltransferase level by myo-inositol also occurred in various wild type strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 4. The decreased methyltransferase activity was restored by the removal of myo-inositol from the culture medium. The restoration of the enzyme level was completely abolished by cycloheximide. Thus, it was shown that protein synthesis was involved in the change of phosphatidylethanolamine methyltransferase level by myo-inositol. 5. These results suggest that the synthesis of phosphatidylcholine from phosphatidylethanolamine by the methylation pathway is regulated by myo-inositol.
Caffeine resistance of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Four caffeine-resistant haploid isolates, two resistant to 50 mM caffeine and two resistant to 100 mM caffeine, were genetically analyzed. Complementation and tetrad analysis indicated that all four mutations are alleles of the same locus. All four isolates demonstrated incomplete dominance when hybridized to the wild-type strain and dominance of high to low resistance when hybridized to one another. Differences in caffeine resistance were found between wild-type grande cells and its petite derivative.
Ornithine decarboxylase activity and cell cycle regulation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the specific activity of the enzyme ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) was correlated with overall growth status. The activity of ODC was highest in actively growing cells, whereas the specific activity was lower in slow-growing cultures limited for nitrogen or inhibited by low concentrations of cycloheximide. Specific activities of ODC were also low in cultures arrested in the stationary phase (in the G1 portion of the cell cycle) by starvation for required nutrients. Although correlated with overall growth, ODC activity was not required for growth or cell cycle regulation. Cells continued to grow in the presence of the polyamine spermidine or spermine, which markedly reduced ODC specific activities. Thus, high levels of ODC activity were not necessary for growth, nor were decreased ODC specific activities sufficient to cause cells to arrest in G1. Conversely, one agent (o-phenanthroline) which causes growing cells to arrest in G1 did so with no effect on ODC specific activity. Therefore, ODC specific activity changes are not necessary for cell cycle regulation but simply reflect the normal growth status of cells.
Altered immunochemical reactivity of Saccharomyces cerevisiae a-cells after alpha-factor-induced morphogenesis.	Antibodies were raised against Saccharomyces cerevisiae a-cells that had been exposed to the sex pheromone, alpha-factor. After adsorption of the antiserum with diploid cells, antibodies remained that reacted specifically with the mannan from haploid cells. The characteristic determinant was observed in mannan from pheromone-treated a-cells, in mannan from untreated alpha-cells, and at a much lower concentration, in mannan from control a-cells. The antigens from these three mannans appeared to be identical. The determinant was destroyed by mild-acid hydrolysis or periodate oxidation, but not by proteolysis or digestion with exo-alpha-mannanase. Mutants with altered mannan were unable to express the antigen. Complete acid hydrolysates mannan from alpha-factor-treated a-cells contained mannose, glucose, and N-acetylglucosamine. Partial acid hydrolysis, under conditions that destroyed the antigenic determinant, released only mannose and mannobiose. The mannose fraction was labeled to high specific activity during response of a-cells to alpha-factor if radioactive glucose was the carbon source. Neither alpha- not beta-D-mannopyranosyl phosphate was a hapten. The results are consistent with the presence of a haploid-specific antigen containing an acid-labile mannose determinant and show that the amount of this antigen in a-cell mannan is increased in response to alpha-factor.
Uptake of the lipophilic cation dibenzyldimethylammonium into Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Interaction with the thiamine transport system.	The distribution ratio of the lipophilic cation dibenzyldimethylammonium between the cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the medium appears to reflect changes in the membrane potential in a way that is qualitatively correct: the addition of a proton conductor or of an agent which blocks metabolism causes an apparent depolarization of the cell membrane; monovalent cations cause also a lowering of the equilibrium distribution, whereas the addition of divalent cations results in an increase of the partition ratio. However, uptake of dibenzyldimethylammonium and probably also of other liophilic cations proceeds via the thiamine transport system of the yeast. Dibenzyldimethylammonium transport is inducible, like thiamine transport. A kinetic analysis of the mutual interaction between thiamine and dibenzyldimethylammonium uptake shows that these compounds share a common transport system; moreover, dibenzyldimethylammonium uptake is inhibited complete by thiamine disulfide, a competitive inhibitor of thiamine transport and dibenzyldimethylammonium uptake in a thiamine-transport mutant is reduced considerably. It is concluded that one should be cautious when using lipophilic cations to measure the membrane potential of cells of S. cerevisiae.
Glucose repression and autolysis of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells: alterations in the cytochemical localization of acid phosphatase.	Alterations in the localization of acid phosphatase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae during glucose repression and during autolysis have been studied. Cell morphology becomes distinctly changed after only 2 h in the presence of high glucose concentration while after 3 h of glucose repression the majority of the mitochondrial structures resemble promitochondria. Yeast cells repressed for 6 h contain almost completely degraded mitochondrial structures and numerous lipid droplets in the central vacuole and cytoplasm. Destruction of mitochondria is accompanied by the accumulation of acid phosphatase in these organelles and in the cytoplasm, whereas its activity in the central vacuole is lowered, most probably because of the leakage of the enzyme into the cytoplasm. No preferential breakdown of mitochondria is observed during autolysis. On the contrary, mitochondria are apparently the last to be degraded. Digestion of cytoplasmic regions and membranous elements occurs intravacuolarly after sequestration by protrusions of the central vacuole which are formed at the initial stages of autolysis. Acid phosphatase is not released from the central vacuole, suggesting indirectly that vacuole enzymes do not migrate into the cytoplasm during autolysis.
Induction of mitotic gene conversion by browning reaction products and its modulation by naturally occurring agents.	Mitotic gene conversion in the D7 strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was significantly enhanced by exposure to non-enzymatic browning reaction products. These products were formed during the heating of sugar (caramelization reaction) or sugar-amino acid mixtures (Maillard reaction) at temperatures normally used during the cooking of food. Several modulating factors of this convertogenic activity were identified. These factors included two main groups: (1) trace metals which are widely distributed in the environment; and (2) several cellular enzymatic systems. The convertogenic activities of a heated glucose-lysine mixture and a commercial caramel powder were completely suppresses when yeast were concurrently exposed to these products and to either FeIII or CuII. Equimolar concentrations of MnII or sodium selenite had no effect on the convertogenic activity of the products of either model system. Horse-radish peroxidase, beef liver catalase and rat liver S9 preparations each decreased the frequency of gene conversion induced by the caramel powder and the heated glucose-lysine products. This modulating activity of the enzymes was lost if they were heat-inactivated. These studies indicate the presence of a variety of protective mechanisms which can modify genotoxic components in complex food mixtures.
Role of DNA repair in ethyl methanesulfonate-induced mutagenesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS)-induced reversion of two sites which revert preferentially by GC to AT transitions, cycl-131 and cycl-115, has been examined in readiation sensitive, rad, mutants of yeast belonging to the rad52 epistasis group. The rad50, rad51, rad52, rad54 and rad56 mutants showed reducted reversion of both tester sites when stationary phase diploid cells were treated with EMS. No correlation was found between EMS-induced reversion and EMS-induced homologous mitotic intragenic recombination. Survival of rad6 rad52 double mutants following EMS treatment indicates that there is one epistasis group for the repair of EMS-induced lethal damage in yeast. A model involving misrepair mutagenesis of specific lesions is proposed to account for the experimental results.
Induction of heat-shock proteins and accumulation of trehalose by TPN in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	TPN [Tetrachloroisophthalonitrile], a kind of disinfectant, affected growth in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Exposed to TPN under no lethal conditions, 70-, 90-kDa protein and hsp104 were induced. Each of them was not uniformly induced; namely, the 70-kDa protein was more sensitive to TPN among other proteins. Trehalose was also accumulated depending on the concentration. The degree of thermotolerance in yeast cells pretreated with 1.0 mg/l TPN was about 100-fold greater than in the control. Under this condition, TPN-inducible proteins were synthesized but trehalose was not accumulated. Although TPN-inducible proteins and trehalose were definitely synthesized with 10.0 or 100.0mg/l TPN treatment, thermotolerance was not acquired.
TOR mutations confer rapamycin resistance by preventing interaction with FKBP12-rapamycin.	The antifungal, immunosuppressive compound rapamycin arrests the cell cycle in G1 in both yeast cells and T-lymphocytes. Previous genetic studies in yeast identified mutations in three genes, FPR1 (FKBP12), TOR1, and TOR2, which confer rapamycin resistance, and genetic findings implicated the TOR proteins as direct targets of FKBP12-rapamycin. Consistent with this model, we find that modulating TOR1 and TOR2 expression alters rapamycin sensitivity. We describe several TOR2 mutations that confer rapamycin resistance. These mutations prevent FKBP12-rapamycin binding to TOR2, as assayed with the two-hybrid system. We find that TOR1 and the mammalian TOR homologue (mTOR) also bind FKBP12-rapamycin, and mutations corresponding to those in TOR2 similarly block FKBP12-rapamycin binding. We demonstrate that FKBP12 prolyl isomerase activity is not required for FKBP12-rapamycin binding to TOR and that a composite protein-drug surface contacts the TOR proteins. These studies confirm that the TOR proteins are direct targets of FKBP12-rapamycin, reveal that drug-resistant mutations prevent this association, and define structural features of these complexes.
Studies on metal resistance system in Kluyveromyces marxianus.	Through preliminary plate tests, Kluyveromyces marxianus was found to be much more resistant to toxic heavy metals compared to a CUP1R strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Specific growth rate and maximum dry weights affected by increasing metal concentrations were determined to obtain precise patterns of resistance. Metal biosorption was also monitored during the course of growth in synthetic media containing respective metals at 0.5 mM final concentration. Although Zn- and Co-binding was negligible, as much as 90% of silver, 60% of copper, and 65% of cadmium were found to be absorbed by the end of active growth. Analysis of the protein profiles of S. cerevisiae and K. marxianus on metal exposure suggested constitutive production of metallothionein in K. marxianus. Furthermore, a smaller protein synthesized by K. marxianus on induction by silver or cadmium accounts for the high resistance of the organism to these metals.
The E. coli recA gene can restore the defect in mutagenesis of the pso4-1 mutant of S. cerevisiae.	The E. coli recA gene was introduced into the pso4-1 mutant of S. cerevisiae and transformants were treated with 8-MOP+UVA and 254-nm UV light. The results showed that the recA gene increased the resistance to the toxic effect of 8-MOP+UVA and restored the frequency of reversion of the pso4-1 mutants after both treatments. The presence of the recA gene stimulated expression of the small subunit of the ribonucleotide reductase (Rnr2) in the pso4-1 mutants. Thus the E. coli recA gene is functional in yeast. Moreover, it was shown that the pso4-1 mutant is epistatic to pso1-1 and rad6-1, which belong to a mutagenic repair pathway. We propose here that the PSO4 gene has some role in the control of mutagenic repair in yeast.
Mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae sensitive to oxidative and osmotic stress.	Although oxidative stress is involved in many human diseases, little is known of its molecular basis in eukaryotes. In a genetic approach, S. cerevisiae was used to identify elements involved in oxidative stress. By using hydrogen peroxide as an agent for oxidative stress, 34 mutants were identified. All mutants were recessive and fell into 16 complementation groups (pos1 to pos16 for peroxide sensitivity). They corresponded to single mutations as shown by a 2:2 segregation pattern. Enzymes reportedly involved in oxidative stress, such as glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, glutathione reductase, superoxide dismutase, as well as glutathione concentrations, were investigated in wild-type and mutant-cells. One complementation group lacked glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and was shown to be allelic to the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase structural gene ZWF1/MET19. In other mutants all enzymes supposedly involved in oxidative-stress resistance were still present. However, several mutants showed strongly elevated levels of glutathione reductase, gluconate-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. One complementation group, pos9, was highly sensitive to oxidative stress and revealed the same growth phenotype as the previously described yap1/par1 mutant coding for the yeast homologue of mammalian transcriptional activator protein, c-Jun, of the proto-oncogenic AP-1 complex. However, unlike par1 mutants, which showed diminished activities of oxidative-stress enzymes and glutathion level, the pos9 mutants did not reveal any such changes. In contrast to other recombinants between pos mutations and par1, the sensitivity did not further increase in par1 pos9 recombinants, which may indicate that both mutations belong to the same regulating circuit.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Intricate interplay between general and specific transcription factors in the promoter of the QCR8 gene.	Transcription of the QCR8 gene, encoding subunit VIII of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae mitochondrial ubiquinol-cytochrome c oxidoreductase (QCR), is controlled by the carbon-source-dependent heme-activator protein complex HAP2/3/4 and the general transcriptional regulators autonomous replication-site-binding factor ABF1 and centromere-binding and promoter-binding factor CPF1. In this study, we investigate and dissect the relative contributions and mutual interactions of these regulators in transcriptional control. Transcription was analyzed both under steady-state conditions and during nutritional shifts, in hap delta mutants and after site-specific mutagenesis of the various binding sites in the chromosomal context of the QCR8 gene. We present evidence for both direct and indirect interactions between ABF1 and HAP2/3/4, and show that HAP2/3/4 is essential for a rapid transcriptional induction during transition from repressed to derepressed conditions. However, the activator is not the only determinant for carbon-source-dependent regulation, and we observe a functional difference between HAP2/3/4 and the HAP2/3 subcomplex. ABF1 is required for maintainance of basal repressed and derepressed transcription in the steady state of growth. The repressive action of the negative modulator CPF1 during escape from glucose repression is overcome through the cooperative action of ABF1 and HAP2/3/4. The implications of the intricate interactions of these DNA-binding regulators for control of expression of mitochondrial protein genes are discussed.
Arabidopsis thaliana NADPH oxidoreductase homologs confer tolerance of yeasts toward the thiol-oxidizing drug diamide.	To isolate new plant genes involved in the defense against oxidative stress, an Arabidopsis cDNA library in a yeast expression vector was transformed into a yeast strain deficient in the YAP1 gene, which encodes a b-Zip transcription factor and regulates general stress response in yeasts. Cells from approximately 10(5) primary transformants were subjected to a tolerance screen toward the thiol-oxidizing drug diamide, which depletes the reduced glutathione in the cell. Four types of Arabidopsis cDNAs were isolated. Three of these cDNAs (P1, P2, and P4) belong to a plant zeta-crystallin family and P3 is an Arabidopsis homolog of isoflavonoid reductases. As such, all four isolated cDNAs are homologous to NADPH oxidoreductases. P1, P2, and P3 steady-state mRNAs accumulated rapidly in Arabidopsis plants under various oxidative stress conditions, such as treatment with paraquat, t-butylhydroperoxide, diamide, and menadione. The data suggested that proteins encoded by the isolated cDNAs play a distinct role in plant antioxidant defense and are possibly involved in NAD(P)/NAD(P)H homeostasis.
Regulation of profilin localization in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by phosphoinositide metabolism.	Profilin is an actin- and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-binding protein that plays a role in the organization of the cytoskeleton and may be involved in growth factor signaling pathways. The subcellular localization of profilin was examined in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Immunoblot analysis showed that profilin was localized in both the plasma membrane and cytosolic fractions of the cell. Actin was bound to the profilin localized in the cytosol. The association of profilin with the membrane was peripheral and mediated through interaction with phospholipid. The phospholipid dependence of profilin for membrane binding was examined in vitro using pure profilin and defined unilamellar phospholipid vesicles. The presence of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate in phospholipid vesicles was required for maximum profilin binding. Moreover, the binding of profilin to phospholipid vesicles was dependent on the surface concentration of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. The subcellular localization of profilin was examined in vivo under growth conditions (i.e. inositol starvation of ino1 cells and glucose starvation of respiratory deficient cells) where plasma membrane levels of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate were depleted. Depletion of plasma membrane phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate levels resulted in a translocation of profilin from the plasma membrane to the cytosolic fraction. Profilin translocated back to the membrane fraction from the cytosol under growth conditions where plasma membrane levels of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate were replenished. These results suggested that phosphoinositide metabolism played a role in the localization of profilin.
Mechanism-based antitumor screening of Caribbean marine organisms: isolation and structure determination of novel diterpenoids from the gorgonian Eunicea tourneforti.	As part of a collaborative research effort between the University of the Virgin Islands and Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, we carried out the extraction and bioassay of 87 marine organisms in a mechanism-based assay involving genetically altered yeast strains. Of these, nineteen showed differential activity between the mutant and wild-type yeast strains indicating the presence of potential DNA interacting agents. We now report the isolation and characterization of five new diterpenoids, 2-6, together with the previously known diterpenoid 1, from the bioactive extracts of the gorgonian Eunicea tourneforti forma atra. The structures of the isolated compounds were determined by employing a variety of one- and two-dimensional nmr methods.
Characterization of the PNT1 pentamidine resistance gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae PNT1 gene was isolated and characterized. When present in high copy number in S. cerevisiae, PNT1 confers resistance to the anti-Pneumocystis carinii drug pentamidine. The PNT1 gene encodes a previously uncharacterized polypeptide of 409 amino acids. The predicted gene product is a very basic (pI 9.9) polypeptide with one potential membrane-associated region. PNT1 is located on chromosome XVR of S. cerevisiae. It is transcribed at a very low level. Overexpression of the gene increases resistance to the cytostatic and mitochondrial DNA-damaging effects of pentamidine and related cationic compounds. Disruption of the gene leads to slightly increased levels of susceptibility to pentamidine and some related compounds.
Influence of some selected ions on system water activity and on ethanol vapour pressure and its inhibitory action on Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The individual and interactive effects of some ionic species on the ethanol vapour pressure in equilibrium with the system, the water activity, and the fermentative performance of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were investigated. The concentrations of the ions Ca2+, Mg2+, and NH4+ were modulated according to a central composite design, within a range of values that can be individually considered optimal for S. cerevisiae. Although the temperature and ethanol and glucose concentrations were kept constant, the initial water activity and ethanol vapour pressure of the systems were remarkably affected by the interactions between the three ions studied. The data concerning the fermentative activity emphasize the role of the physical state of ethanol. In fact, when the ethanol concentration was kept constant, the highest fermentative performances of yeast were obtained when the ethanol vapour pressure, depending particularly on the Ca2+ and Mg2+ interaction, was the lowest in the matrix of values considered.
Effects of insulin and glucose tolerance factor on glucose uptake by yeast cells.	Addition of mammalian insulin or glucose tolerance factor (GTF), to Saccharomyces cerevisiae ATCC 7752, increased 2-deoxyglucose uptake by yeast cells. The enhancement was dose-dependent, and also dependent on preincubation of the cells with glucose, prior to the addition of the hormone. The effect of insulin on glucose uptake by the yeast was very similar to the effect of GTF on these cells. Insulin and GTF increased also the growth of yeast cells, while denatured insulin or glucagon failed to act. Our findings support the view that both insulin and GTF might regulate carbohydrate metabolism in microorganisms.
Enhancement of synthesis and activity of yeast transport proteins by metabolic substrates.	The transport rates of amino acids, ranging from L-Glu to L-Lys, uracil, adenine and sulfate and phosphate anions by Saccharomyces cerevisiae are greatly increased by preincubation with D-glucose in a nongrowth medium when a de novo synthesis of proteins takes place. In addition, some substrates, especially the inorganic anions, require the presence of glucose during their transport. This requirement has to do both with ongoing protein synthesis and degradation, as well as with providing energy and/or activating the plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase which supplies the protons to the H+ symports studied here.
The regulation of DNA topoisomerase II by casein kinase II.	DNA topoisomerase II is an essential nuclear enzyme required for the proper condensation and segregation of chromosomes during mitotic and meiotic cell division. The enzyme exists in the cell as a phosphoprotein, and it is most highly phosphorylated in G2 and M-phases of the cell cycle. We have shown that topoisomerase II is the target of casein kinase II (CKII) in yeast by comparison of in vivo and in vitro phosphotryptic peptide maps. Limited proteolysis and probing with domain specific antibodies show that with the exception of a weakly modified residue between aa 660 and aa 1250, all residues modified by CKII are in the last 200 amino acids of yeast topoisomerase II. This C-terminal domain is the least conserved region of the enzyme and truncation of the enzyme shows that it is nonessential for activity in vitro. However, the fully dephosphorylated full-size protein is nearly inactive in decatenation assays, and activity can be restored by phosphorylation by CKII. To reconcile these observations, we propose that the C-terminal region is a negative regulatory domain, counteracted by phosphorylation within the domain itself. To test this hypothesis we have mutagenised 12 potential CKII phosphoacceptor sites in the C-terminus of topoisomerase II and introduced the mutant genes into a yeast strain which has a temperature sensitive top2 gene. The growth of the transformed strains is monitored at nonpermissive temperature to determine whether C-terminal phosphorylation is important for mitotic growth. In addition, we have purified the mutant enzymes to homogeneity for in vitro assays.
Analysis of Saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins induced by peroxide and superoxide stress.	Exponentially growing Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells are more sensitive to oxidants such as hydrogen peroxide and superoxides than stationary phase cells. Using disruption mutations in the genes encoding the two S. cerevisiae superoxide dismutases, we show that the principal mechanism of toxicity of redox-cycling compounds, such as menadione and plumbagin, is via the production of superoxide anions. Using two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis we have compared the pattern of protein expression in cells labelled with L-[35S]methionine and stressed with either H2O2 or menadione. Three groups of proteins were evident: those whose levels are elevated by both H2O2 and menadione, and those specifically induced by either H2O2 or menadione. Experiments with promoter fusions demonstrated that one of the heat inducible forms of HSP70 (SSA1) was inducible with H2O2. Furthermore, induction of the yeast H2O2-responsive TRX2 promoter by menadione required the metabolism of menadione.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae YDR1, which encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) superfamily, is required for multidrug resistance.	A multidrug resistance gene, YDR1, of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which encodes a 170-kDa protein of a member of the ABC superfamily, was identified. Disruption of YDR1 resulted in hypersensitivity to cycloheximide, cerulenin, compactin, staurosporine and fluphenazine, indicating that YDR1 is an important determinant of cross resistance to apparently-unrelated drugs. The Ydr1 protein bears the highest similarity to the S. cerevisiae Snq2 protein required for resistance to the mutagen 4-NQO. The drug-specificity analysis of YDR1 and SNQ2 by gene disruption, and its phenotypic suppression by the overexpressed genes, revealed overlapping, yet distinct, specificities. YDR1 was responsible for cycloheximide, cerulenin and compactin resistance, whereas, SNQ2 was responsible for 4-NQO resistance. The two genes had overlapping specificities toward staurosporine and fluphenazine. The transcription of YDR1 and SNQ2 was induced by various drugs, both relevant and irrelevant to the resistance caused by the gene, suggesting that drug specificity can be mainly attributed to the functional difference of the putative transporters. The transcription of these genes was also increased by heat shock. The yeast drug-resistance system provides a novel model for mammalian multidrug resistance.
Chemical reagents as potential impurities of pharmaceutical products: investigations on their genotoxic activity.	The genotoxic activity of chemical reagents and intermediates as potential impurities of final pharmaceutical products have been investigated by the AFI Mutagenesis Study Group. A number of compounds employed in the synthesis of beta-lactam (12), quinolone (6), antiviral (3), and other drugs (11) were analyzed. The information reported in this article was mainly obtained experimentally in our laboratories. In addition, attempts were made to obtain reference data; however, these were available for only a few compounds. The genetic end-point taken into account was principally gene mutation in bacteria. All chemical reagents used in the synthesis of quinolones and antivirals were negative in the Ames test. As far as reagents employed in beta-lactam synthesis were concerned, genotoxic activity was shown by the alkylating agents bromomethanol acetate and chloromethanol acetate, by carbon disulfide, and by the different dimethylanilines. The other chemicals generically considered as involved in "other syntheses" did not induce gene mutation, except for 2,5-dibromopentyl acetate, which was positive in the Ames test. For this compound, as for the halogenated methanol acetates, genotoxic activity was expected in view of its alerting chemical structure.
Regulation of phosphatidic acid biosynthetic enzymes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Phosphatidic acid is the biosynthetic precursor of all glycerolipids. To understand how phosphatidic acid biosynthesis is controlled in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we studied the regulation of three enzyme activities involved in the synthesis of this glycerolipid precursor, i.e., glycerophosphate acyltransferase (GPAT), dihydroxyacetone phosphate acyltransferase (DHAPAT), and acyl DHAP reductase. GPAT activity was increased 3-fold, while DHAPAT activity was increased up to 9-fold in wild type cells grown in a nonfermentable carbon source compared to that of glucose-grown cells. The ratio of GPAT/DHAPAT activity was 12 in glucose-grown cells but only 4 in cells grown in glycerol/ethanol. In the previously characterized tpa1 mutant, (T. S. Tillman and R. M. Bell. 1986. J. Biol. Chem. 261: 9144-9149), GPAT was decreased 2-fold and DHAPAT 27-fold compared to activities in the wild type. Acyl DHAP reductase activity in both wild type and tpa1 cells grown on a nonfermentable carbon source was increased approximately 2-fold over that of glucose-grown cells. All three enzymatic activities increased as wild type cells grown on glucose entered the stationary phase of growth. Therefore, GPAT, DHAPAT, and acyl DHAP reductase activities appear to be regulated by the respiratory state of the cell. None of the activities was affected to a great extent by inositol, which is a key regulator of many enzymes involved in the synthesis of PtdOH-derived phospholipids in S. cerevisiae, nor by deletion of the mitochondrial genome.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Functional expression of P-glycoproteins in secretory vesicles.	We expressed P-glycoproteins (P-gps) encoded by the three mouse mdr genes in the membranes of secretory vesicles (SV) accumulating in the yeast mutant strain sec 6-4. Expression of the Mdr1 and Mdr3 isoforms in SV membranes caused a significant increased accumulation of the drug vinblastine (VBL) over background levels measured in control SV. The Mdr1/Mdr3-mediated increased drug accumulation could be completely abolished by the P-gp modulator verapamil. By contrast, overexpression of Mdr2 in these vesicles failed to increase intravesicular VBL accumulation over background levels. Mdr3-mediated VBL transport was not affected by changes in the membrane potential, since identical rates of VBL uptake were measured in the presence or absence of the endogenous proton-translocating PMA1 H(+)-ATPase responsible for the strong electrochemical membrane potential across SV membranes. Moreover, in the presence of a delta micro-H+ across the SV membranes (inside positive) of almost 90 mV, we detected in Mdr3-expressing SV an enhanced accumulation of the lipophilic cation and P-gp substrate tetraphenylphosphonium, suggesting that P-gp-mediated uptake of this cation occurs against an intravesicular depolarized membrane. Likewise, VBL transport in Mdr3-expressing SV was not affected by the presence or absence of a steep proton gradient (inside acid) and was independent of any proton movements, excluding a proton synport or antiport mechanism for P-gp-mediated drug transport. Finally, we could demonstrate that colchicine accumulation in Mdr3-expressing SV occurred against a significant substrate concentration gradient, reaching a 7-fold increase in intravesicular colchicine concentration above the extravesicular medium drug concentration. Our studies show that SV isolated from the temperature-sensitive yeast sec 6-4 mutants are an ideal tool to express and to functionally characterize heterologous membrane proteins, in general and P-gps, in particular.
Differential regulation of two myo-inositol transporter genes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	We previously isolated two distinct Saccharomyces cerevisiae myo-inositol transporter genes, ITR1 and ITR2 (Nikawa et al., 1991). Here, we studied the regulation of their expression by measuring steady-state mRNA levels and beta-galactosidase activities of lacZ fusion genes under different conditions. The results show that the expression of the two ITR genes is differently regulated: ITR1 was repressed by inositol and choline whereas ITR2 was constitutive. Deletion analysis of the ITR1 upstream region and comparison with the upstream regions of other genes involved in phospholipid synthesis indicate that the octamer sequence 5'-TTCACATG-3' is important for the expression and inositol/choline regulation of the ITR1 gene.
Chemically induced changes in the spectrum of amplifications of the human minisatellite MS1 integrated in chromosome III of a haploid yeast strain.	To study chemically induced DNA amplifications we used the haploid Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain TR(MS1)-1 carrying an integrated chromosomal copy of the human minisatellite. MS1. Chemicals with different mechanisms of action were tested in this strain: methyl methanesulphonate, ethylene oxide (EO), propylene oxide (PO), camptothecin, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenso-p-dioxin (TCDD) and reserpine. No increase in frequency of new MS1 length alleles was seen with any of the tested chemicals relative to the spontaneous frequency of approximately 30%. EO and TCDD induced changes in the amplification spectrum, i.e., the frequency distribution of MS1 length alleles longer than the original 1.42 kb allele. PO and camptothecin increased the frequency of plasmid "pop-out" events. It seems likely that several mechanisms e.g. unequal exchanges, replication slippage and loop formation leading to deletion of a ring of tandem repeats, are involved in the generation of new MS1 length alleles. A loop-forming deletion mechanism is supported by the tendency to multimodality shown in the deamplification (loss of repeat units) spectra, i.e. the frequency distribution of new MS1 length alleles shorter than the original allele. EO and TCDD induced "longer" MS1 length alleles as compared to the control. The frequent generation of new MS1 length alleles in this haploid yeast strain further demonstrates the instability of such sequences and their possible relevance to genetic toxicology and the mechanisms of induction of cancer as well as other diseases. This study is a first step towards the development of an assay for DNA amplification without the use of a selective agent.
Induction of genetic recombination: consequences and model systems.	Radiation and many chemicals have been found to induce homologous genetic recombination. Experimental systems that allow the detection and characterization of recombinagens exist in organisms as diverse as bacteria, fungi, plants, insects, and mammals. Recombination plays an important role in many biological processes, and studies of recombinagens can provide insight into underlying mechanisms. Studies of recombinagens are also of applied interest in genetic toxicology, because recombinational events in somatic cells can contribute to human disease. Clear connections have been established between mitotic recombination and the etiology of some cancers. This article briefly reviews two aspects of the induction of genetic recombination by radiation and chemicals--the health implications of recombinagenic effects and assays for detecting recombinagens.
Antimicrobial peptides from skin secretions of Rana esculenta. Molecular cloning of cDNAs encoding esculentin and brevinins and isolation of new active peptides.	Three cytolytic peptides, termed brevinin-1E, brevinin-2E, and esculentin, were isolated from skin secretions of the European frog Rana esculenta (Simmaco, M., Mignogna, G., Barra, D., and Bossa, F. (1993) FEBS Lett. 324, 159-161). Nucleotide sequence analysis of cDNAs coding for the corresponding precursors revealed that in all of them a single copy of the sequence of the mature peptide is present preceded by a dibasic cleavage site and followed by a stop codon. The signal peptides of these precursors show a clear homology to the corresponding region of the precursor of dermorphin, a neuropeptide occurring in the skin of amphibians of the subfamily Phyllomedusinae. Ten new peptides, ranging in size from 24 to 46 residues, all possessing an intramolecular disulfide bridge located at the carboxyl-terminal end, were isolated from skin secretions of R. esculenta. These peptides can be grouped into four subfamilies on the basis of their distinctive structural and/or functional properties. All of these new peptides have antimicrobial and/or hemolytic activities typical for the respective subfamily. In addition, we demonstrate that esculentin-1 also inhibits the growth of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Candida albicans, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
The third cytoplasmic loop of a yeast G-protein-coupled receptor controls pathway activation, ligand discrimination, and receptor internalization.	To identify functional domains of G-protein-coupled receptors that control pathway activation, ligand discrimination, and receptor regulation, we have used as a model the alpha-factor receptor (STE2 gene product) of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. From a collection of random mutations introduced in the region coding for the third cytoplasmic loop of Ste2p, six ste2sst alleles were identified by genetic screening methods that increased alpha-factor sensitivity 2.5- to 15-fold. The phenotypic effects of ste2sst and sst2 mutations were not additive, consistent with models in which the third cytoplasmic loop of the alpha-factor receptor and the regulatory protein Sst2p control related aspects of pheromone response and/or desensitization. Four ste2sst mutations did not dramatically alter cell surface expression or agonist binding affinity of the receptor; however, they did permit detectable responses to an alpha-factor antagonist. One ste2sst allele increased receptor binding affinity for alpha-factor and elicited stronger responses to antagonist. Results of competition binding experiments indicated that wild-type and representative mutant receptors bound antagonist with similar affinities. The antagonist-responsive phenotypes caused by ste2sst alleles were therefore due to defects in the ability of receptors to discriminate between agonist and antagonist peptides. One ste2sst mutation caused rapid, ligand-independent internalization of the receptor. These results demonstrate that the third cytoplasmic loop of the alpha-factor receptor is a multifunctional regulatory domain that controls pathway activation and/or desensitization and influences the processes of receptor activation, ligand discrimination, and internalization.
Identification of the maltose transport protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Identification of the maltose transport protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was attempted by searching for maltose-inducible proteins in isolated plasma membranes. Membranes from maltose-grown cells contained two proteins that were absent in glucose-grown cells. The proteins differed in size, but peptide sequence analysis indicated a high degree of homology. The amino-terminal and internal sequences of the largest protein, with an apparent molecular mass of 64 kDa, were determined. These sequences were identical to predicted amino acid sequences in the MAL61 gene product. It is concluded that this protein is the inducible maltose permease of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Trehalose inhibits ethanol effects on intact yeast cells and liposomes.	The effect of ethanol on stability of intact yeast cells has been investigated. Several strains with differences in trehalose metabolism were examined for their ability to survive in the presence of 10% (v/v) ethanol. A positive correlation was observed between cell viability and trehalose concentration. When leakage of electrolytes from the cells was recorded by observing changes in conductivity of the medium, we found that ethanol increases leakage, but the presence of trehalose reverses that effect. Similar studies were done with liposomes of similar composition to those seen in intact cells in log and stationary phases. In the presence of ethanol, carboxyfluorescein trapped in the liposomes leaked to the medium. When trehalose was added inside, outside or on both sides of the membrane, the ethanol-induced leakage was strongly inhibited. More leakage was observed in liposomes in gel phase state than in liquid-crystalline phase, suggesting that the thermotropic behavior of the lipids in the plasma membrane, together with trehalose, plays a role in enhancing ethanol tolerance.
Decrease in yeast glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity due to oxygen free radicals.	1. u.v. radiations and copper acetate, as free radical generating systems, determine a significant diminishing of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity in the homogenates of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 2. The inactivation is proportional to the concentration of the formed free radicals, existing a direct dependence on the action time of the free radicals generating systems and on the irradiation dose. The decrease of the enzyme catalytic activity is correlated with the increase of the malondialdehyde concentration. 3. The affinity for the substrate of the enzyme under the action of free radicals does not change significantly compared to the native enzyme: the Km value for NADP is halved, whilst that for glucose-6-phosphate remains unchanged. 4. The electrophoretic study shows evidence of five electrophoretic bands with enzymatic activity in the native extract and the disappearance of one molecular form under the free radical action.
Identification and analysis of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae SYR1 gene reveals that ergosterol is involved in the action of syringomycin.	A 2.5 kb DNA fragment of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae SYR1 gene was cloned by complementation of the syr1 mutations that simultaneously lead to resistance to the phytotoxin syringomycin and sensitivity of growth to high Ca2+ concentrations. Sequencing of this fragment revealed a single open reading frame encoding a polypeptide of 365 amino acids. Four hydrophobic regions each separated by hydrophilic regions were present in the protein. SYR1 was identical to ERG3, which is suggested to encode C-5 sterol desaturase required for ergosterol biosynthesis. The protein product of SYR1 was identified by Western blot analysis as a protein of 40 kDa in the particulate fraction. Gene disruption experiments demonstrated that elimination of SYR1/ERG3 is not lethal, but results in membrane C-5 desaturated sterol deficiencies, resistance to syringomycin and sensitivity to high Ca2+. The syr1 mutant cells had significantly decreased ability for syringomycin binding. The results indicated that C-5 desaturated sterols are involved in the binding of syringomycin to the cell, and the lack of the sterols in the mutant membrane results in sensitivity to high Ca2+ and an increased rate of cellular Ca2+ influx.
The linear-plasmid-encoded toxin produced by the yeast Pichia acaciae: characterization and comparison with the toxin of Kluyveromyces lactis.	The toxin produced by Pichia acaciae was purified and its properties compared to those of the toxin from Kluyveromyces lactis. Like this toxin, the P. acaciae toxin is a protein comprised of three subunits (molecular masses 110, 39 and 38 kDa) with an associated chitinase activity and a pH optimum between 7.0 and 7.5. P. acaciae toxin also caused G1 cell cycle arrest. Of the thirteen recessive alleles that provided resistance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae to K. lactis toxin, only three also conferred resistance to P. acaciae toxin. Similarities and differences in the interactions of the two toxins with yeast cells are discussed.
PAD1 encodes phenylacrylic acid decarboxylase which confers resistance to cinnamic acid in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The yeast enzyme phenylacrylic acid decarboxylase (PAD) confers resistance to phenylacrylic acids. Cinnamic acid (CA)-sensitive mutants lacking PAD activity were isolated and the PAD1 gene was cloned by phenotypic complementation. The nucleotide sequence of the smallest complementing fragment was determined. The predicted 242-amino-acid PAD polypeptide is 48.6% identical to the product of dedF of Escherichia coli. PAD activity and CA resistance, but not steady-state PAD1 mRNA levels, are influenced by mitochondrial genotype. PAD1 is a single-copy gene in the yeast genome and not essential for viability. The PAD1 locus was physically mapped to a position approx. 140 kb from the left end of chromosome IV.
Cloning and characterization of a yeast cytochrome b5-encoding gene which suppresses ketoconazole hypersensitivity in a NADPH-P-450 reductase-deficient strain.	Cytochrome P-450 (Cyp) 51 or lanosterol-C14-demethylase is the main target for antifungal compounds of the triazole family like ketoconazole (Kz). Disruption of the associated NADPH-P-450 reductase-encoding gene (YRED) is not lethal, but decreases by about 20-fold the Kz resistance (KzR) of wild-type (wt) Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Transformation of a YRED-disrupted strain by a yeast genomic library based on a multicopy vector allowed us to identify a suppressor of Kz hypersensitivity. Deletion analysis of the 5-kb cloned fragment indicated that yeast cytochrome b5-encoding gene (CYB5), which encodes a 120-amino-acid (aa) protein, is required and sufficient for the suppressor effect. The encoded polypeptide shares about 30% aa identity with mammalian cytochromes b5 (Cyb5). CYB5 disruption and tetrad analysis demonstrate that yeast Cyb5 is not required for growth in a Yred+ strain. Determination of the microsomal content of b-type cytochromes by differential spectra indicated the presence of a strongly decreased or null Cyb5 level in the disrupted strain. This confirms that we have cloned the gene encoding the major microsomal form of Cyb5 which appears not to be essential. Minor Cyb5 isoforms could also be present in yeast or other redox proteins could substitute for the pleiotropic roles of Cyb5 in the sterol and lipid biosynthesis pathways.
Growth and conidiation of Trichoderma viride are affected by non-steroidal antiinflammatory agents.	Nonsteroid antiinflammatory agents (NSAIA's) (inhibitors of cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase) of several structural series inhibited growth of Trichoderma viride. The most potent growth inhibitors were indomethacin and its derivative repanidal which inhibited in the range of 0.1 mmol/L. The weakest inhibitors were acetylsalicylic acid and lysine salicylate which exerted only a weak effect at concentrations above 1 mmol/L. The inhibition of growth was accompanied by a stimulation of conidiation in the dark. A light pulse increased the efficiency of these drugs to stimulate the conidiation. Saccharomyces cerevisiae was as sensitive to NSAIA's as T. viride while Botrytis cinerea was less sensitive. The results indicate that arachidonate metabolism may play a role in the growth of fungi and may participate also in the process of conidiation.
Transcriptional activation mediated by the yeast AP-1 protein is required for normal cadmium tolerance.	The yeast YAP1 gene encodes a transcriptional regulatory protein that utilizes a basic region-leucine zipper (bZip) DNA-binding domain to recognize its cognate DNA element. A synthetic reporter gene containing a SV40 AP-1 response element (ARE) cloned upstream of a TRP5 promoter-lacZ gene fusion shows yAP-1-dependent transactivation in vivo. Recent work has shown that changes in the gene dosage of this factor can dramatically alter the ability of a cell to tolerate a host of toxic agents including cadmium, cycloheximide, and sulfometuron methyl. We have focused on the YAP1-dependent cadmium resistance as cells that lack a functional YAP1 gene are hypersensitive to this metal. Deletion mapping experiments define two domains in the carboxyl-terminal region of the yAP-1 protein that are required for normal cadmium tolerance and ARE-TRP5-lacZ expression. Single amino acid substitutions in the bZip domain of yAP-1 indicate that this region is required for normal DNA binding and in vivo function of the protein. Replacement of a non-canonical asparagine with leucine in the yAP-1 leucine zipper leads to production of a defective protein. A substitution mutation in the basic domain converts this mutant protein into a dominant negative factor. The ability of yAP-1 to act as a positive regulator of transcription is required for its biological action.
Systematic mutational analysis of the yeast beta-tubulin gene.	A systematic strategy was used to create a synoptic set of mutations that are distributed throughout the single beta-tubulin gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Clusters of charged amino acids were targeted for mutagenesis and converted to alanine to maximize alterations on the protein's surface and minimize alterations that affect protein folding. Of the 55 mutations we constructed, three confer dominant-lethality, 11 confer recessive-lethality, 10 confer cold-sensitivity, one confers heat-sensitivity, and 27 confer altered resistance to benomyl. Only 11 alleles give no discernible phenotype. In spite of the fact that beta-tubulin is a highly conserved protein, three-fourths of the mutations do not destroy the ability of the protein to support the growth of yeast at 30 degrees C. The lethal substitutions are primarily located in three regions of the protein and presumably identify domains most critical for beta-tubulin function. Interestingly, most of the conditional-lethal alleles produce specific defects in spindle assembly at their restrictive temperature; cytoplasmic microtubules are relatively unaffected. The exceptions are two mutants that contain abnormally long cytoplasmic microtubules. Mutants with specific spindle defects were not observed in our previous collection of beta-tubulin mutants and should be valuable in dissecting spindle function.
Two bioactive pterocarpans from Erythrina burana.	Bioactivity-directed fractionation of the CHCl3 extract of the bark of Erythrina burana afforded phaseollidin [1] and cristacarpin [2]. Both 1 and 2 exhibited moderate but selective activity towards DNA repair-deficient yeast mutants, whereas only 1 was found to be cytotoxic. 13C-nmr spectra of both compounds were assigned.
Identification of a hyperactive mating pheromone of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The yeast mating pheromone a-factor is a farnesylated peptide [YIIKGVFWDPAC(Farnesyl)-OCH3] involved in the signal transduction cascade which leads to sexual conjugation of haploid cells. We have identified a synthetic analog of the a-factor, [D-Ala5] a-factor, which exhibits 4-6 fold greater biological activity than that of a-factor as judged by two different assay systems. In contrast, [L-Ala5] a-factor has 4-16 fold lower activity than wild-type a-factor. [D-Ala5] a-factor remains susceptible to cleavage by the yeast alpha-cell specific protease a-factorase, thereby ruling out increased activity due to greater stability. This report describes the first example of a hyperactive S. cerevisiae pheromone and may suggest a conformationally preferred form of this lipopeptide ligand.
Yeast genes involved in growth inhibition by Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae syringomycin family lipodepsipeptides.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae genes encoding functions necessary for inhibition by the Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae cyclic lipodepsipeptide, syringomycin-E, were identified by mutant analyses. Syringomycin-E-resistant mutants were isolated, shown to contain single recessive mutations, and divided into eight gene complementation groups. Representative strains from five groups were resistant to nystatin, and deficient in the plasma membrane lipid, ergosterol. All of the mutant strains were resistant to the related cyclic lipodepsipeptides, syringotoxin and syringostatin. The findings show that: 1) at least eight gene-encoded functions participate in the inhibitory response to syringomycin; 2) ergosterol is important for this response; 3) the three related lipodepsipeptides have similar modes of action.
Spectra of the formaldehyde-induced ultraweak luminescence from yeast cells.	An increase in the intensity and distinct spectral changes of ultraweak luminescence from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae were measured when the metabolism of cells was drastically altered. A small emission peak and a red emission band 680-850 nm appeared when air-dried cells were imbibed in water. Lethal concentrations of HCHO (0.01%-10%) elicited a 2500 fold increase of the emission intensity and distinct spectral alterations. A transient 500-580 nm emission appeared in the initial phase of interaction. Then a gradually increasing long-lasting red emission band centered around 620 nm predominated in the total spectral range covering 470-850 nm. These emissions were not correlated with minor changes in fluorescence emission and excitation spectra originating from tryptophan, flavins, and unidentified emitters.
Barley pathogenesis-related proteins with fungal cell wall lytic activity inhibit the growth of yeasts.	Proteins from intercellular fluid extracts of chemically stressed barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) leaves were separated by native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis at alkaline or acid pH. Polyacrylamide gels contained Saccharomyces cerevisiae (bakers' yeast) or Schizosaccharomyces pombe (fission yeast) crude cell walls for assaying yeast wall lysis. In parallel, gels were overlaid with a suspension of yeasts for assaying growth inhibition by pathogenesis-related proteins. The same assays were also performed with proteins separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under nonreducing conditions. In alkaline native polyacrylamide gels, only one band corresponding to yeast cell wall lytic activity was found to be inhibitory to bakers' yeast growth, whereas in acidic native polyacrylamide gels one band inhibited the growth of both yeasts. Under denaturing nonreducing conditions, one band of 19 kD inhibited the growth of both fungi. The 19-kD band corresponded to a basic protein after two-dimensional gel analysis. The 19-kD protein with yeast cell wall lytic activity and inhibitory to both yeasts was found to be different from previously reported barley chitosanases that were lytic to fungal spores. It could be different from other previously reported lytic antifungal activities related to pathogenesis-related proteins.
Genetic and molecular characterization of GAL83: its interaction and similarities with other genes involved in glucose repression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Expression of the GAL genes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is subject to glucose repression, a global regulatory mechanism that requires several gene products. We have isolated GAL83, one of these genes required for glucose repression. The sequence of the predicted Gal83 protein is homologous to two other yeast proteins, Sip1p and Sip2p, which are known to interact with the SNF1 gene product, a protein kinase required for expression of the GAL genes. High-copy clones of SIP1 and SIP2 cross-complement the GAL83-2000 mutation (as well as GAL82-1, a mutation in another gene involved in glucose repression), suggesting that these four genes may perform similar functions in glucose repression. Consistent with this hypothesis, a gal83 null mutation does not affect glucose repression, and only dominant or partially dominant mutations exist in GAL83 (and GAL82). Two other observations were made that suggests that GAL83 functions interdependently with GAL82 and REG1 (another gene involved in glucose repression) to effect glucose repression: 1) REG1 on a low-copy plasmid cross-complements GAL82-1 and GAL83-2000 mutations, and 2) all pairwise combinations of reg1, GAL82-1 and GAL83-2000 fail to complement one another. Such unlinked noncomplementation suggests that Gal83p, Gal82p and Reg1p may interact with one another. Possible roles for GAL83, GAL82 and REG1 are discussed in relation to SNF1, SIP1 and SIP2.
Molecular genetics of cryptopleurine resistance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: expression of a ribosomal protein gene family.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae CRY1 gene encodes the 40S ribosomal subunit protein rp59 and confers sensitivity to the protein synthesis inhibitor cryptopleurine. A yeast strain containing the cry1-delta 1::URA3 null allele is viable, cryptopleurine sensitive (CryS), and expresses rp59 mRNA, suggesting that there is a second functional CRY gene. The CRY2 gene has been isolated from a yeast genomic library cloned in bacteriophage lambda, using a CRY1 DNA probe. The DNA sequence of the CRY2 gene contains an open reading frame encoding ribosomal protein 59 that differs at five residues from rp59 encoded by the CRY1 gene. The CRY2 gene was mapped to the left arm of chromosome X, centromere-proximal to cdc6 and immediately adjacent to ribosomal protein genes RPS24A and RPL46. Ribosomal protein 59 is an essential protein; upon sporulation of a diploid doubly heterozygous for cry1-delta 2::TRP1 cry2-delta 1::LEU2 null alleles, no spore clones containing both null alleles were recovered. Several results indicate that CRY2 is expressed, but at lower levels than CRY1: (1) Introduction of CRY2 on high copy plasmids into CryR yeast of genotype cry1 CRY2 confers a CryS phenotype. Transformation of these CryR yeast with CRY2 on a low copy CEN plasmid does not confer a CryS phenotype. (2) Haploids containing the cry1-delta 2::TRP1 null allele have a deficit of 40S ribosomal subunits, but cry2-delta 1::LEU2 strains have wild-type amounts of 40S ribosomal subunits. (3) CRY2 mRNA is present at lower levels than CRY1 mRNA. (4) Higher levels of beta-galactosidase are expressed from a CRY1-lacZ gene fusion than from a CRY2-lacZ gene fusion. Mutations that alter or eliminate the last amino acid of rp59 encoded by either CRY1 or CRY2 result in resistance to cryptopleurine. Because CRY2 (and cry2) is expressed at lower levels than CRY1 (and cry1), the CryR phenotype of cry2 mutants is only expressed in strains containing a cry1-delta null allele.
Antibiotic and cytotoxic activity of brominated compounds from the marine sponge Verongia aerophoba.	Analysis of the marine sponge Verongia aerophoba from the Canary Islands afforded eight brominated secondary metabolites including the small molecular weight compounds aeroplysinin-1 (5) and the dienone (7) which were previously shown to arise by enzymatically catalyzed degradation of aerophobin-2 (4) and isofistularin-3 (1) following breakdown of the cellular compartmentation of the sponge. All compounds were identified from their NMR and mass spectra. Aeroplysinin-1 as well as dienone which arise from isofistularin-3 or aerophobin-2 by biotransformation within the sponge showed a significantly higher antibiotic as well as cytotoxic activity than their biogenetic precursors. Antibiotic activity was studied with respect to several gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria including B. subtilis, S. aureus and E. coli. The MICs (MBCs) of aeroplysinin-1 (5) and the dienone (7) varied between 12.5-25 (50-100) micrograms/ml respectively. Cytotoxicity was tested in vitro towards HeLa cells, a human cervix uteri tumour cell line. Aeroplysinin-1 (5) and the dienone (7) displayed pronounced cytotoxic activity with IC50s of 3.0 and 3.2 microM respectively. A five-fold increase in cytotoxicity was observed after O-acetylation of the dienone (7). The IC50 of the dienone O-acetate (0.6 microM) was comparable to that of the clinically used anticancer drug cisplatin (0.7 microM).
Studies on the utilization of inorganic pyrophosphate by different metabolic systems in yeast mitochondria.	A mitochondrial pyrophosphatase (PPase) from yeast cells (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) was studied and characterized. The hydrolytic activity towards inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi) was inhibited by different SH-reagents and increased in the presence of uncouplers, indicating a possible involvement of this enzyme in energy-linked processes. This view was also supported by the observation that these mitochondria were able to hydrolyze PPi, generating an electrical membrane potential (delta psi) of the same magnitude as that obtained with ATP. Both ATP and PPi inhibited the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and it was demonstrated that PPi can be used as substrate by mitochondrial kinases leading to the same pattern of protein phosphorylation as when ATP is used.
Resistance to imidazoles and triazoles in Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a new dominant marker.	The imidazole and triazole fungicides inhibit cytochrome P450 14 alpha-lanosterol demethylase (P45014DM) implicated in the ergosterol biosynthesis pathway, which is specific to fungi and yeasts. Two plasmids were obtained which allow triazole and imidazole resistance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The low copy number plasmid (pFD 383) encodes cytochrome P450 C14 alpha lanosterol demethylase under the control of phospho-glycerate-kinase promoter. S. cerevisiae transformed by the pFD 383 plasmid are resistant to imidazoles and triazoles. Moreover, this transformed strain shows increased levels of P45014DM mRNA and of cytochrome P450. A second low copy number plasmid (pFD 384) carries a mutant cytochrome P450 14 alpha lanosterol demethylase gene, which increases imidazole and triazole resistance. These constructions can be used on a dominant selection marker to transform wild-type yeasts and to confer imidazole and triazole resistance in industrial fermentation.
Antifungal activity of fluconazole in vitro]	The susceptibility of 97 fungal strains to fluconazole was evaluated using the dilution method. Forty-three of the strains were C. albicans, fifty-three other Candida species and one S. cerevisiae. The MIC values varied from 0.1 mg/l to 100 mg/l. However, the growth of 75.2% of the strains was considerably inhibited at 0.1 mg/l. Forty-nine strains were tested using both the dilution and disk-diffusion methods. The findings were consistent. The latter method may be performed on YNB medium and is of practical value.
Met30p, a yeast transcriptional inhibitor that responds to S-adenosylmethionine, is an essential protein with WD40 repeats.	A specific repression mechanism regulates the biosynthesis of sulfur amino acids in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. When the intracellular S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) concentration increases, transcription of the sulfur genes is repressed. Using a specific reporter system, we have isolated mutations impairing the AdoMet-mediated transcriptional regulation of the sulfur network. These mutations identified a new gene, MET30, and were shown to also affect the regulation of the methyl cycle. The MET30 gene was isolated and sequenced. Sequence analysis reveals that Met30p contains five copies of the WD40 motif within its carboxy-terminal part, like the yeast transcriptional repressors Hir1p and Tup1p. We identified one target of Met30p as Met4p, a transcriptional activator regulating the sulfate assimilation pathway. By the two-hybrid method, we showed that Met30p interacts with Met4p and identified a region of Met4p involved in this interaction. Further analysis reveals that expression of Met30p is essential for cell viability.
Expression of an ATP-binding cassette transporter-encoding gene (YOR1) is required for oligomycin resistance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Semidominant mutations in the PDR1 or PDR3 gene lead to elevated resistance to cycloheximide and oligomycin. PDR1 and PDR3 have been demonstrated to encode zinc cluster transcription factors. Cycloheximide resistance mediated by PDR1 and PDR3 requires the presence of the PDR5 membrane transporter-encoding gene. However, PDR5 is not required for oligomycin resistance. Here, we isolated a gene that is necessary for PDR1- and PDR3-mediated oligomycin resistance. This locus, designated YOR1, causes a dramatic elevation in oligomycin resistance when present in multiple copies. A yor1 strain exhibits oligomycin hypersensitivity relative to an isogenic wild-type strain. In addition, loss of the YOR1 gene blocks the elevation in oligomycin resistance normally conferred by mutant forms of PDR1 or PDR3. The YOR1 gene product is predicted to be a member of the ATP-binding cassette transporter family of membrane proteins. Computer alignment indicates that Yor1p shows striking sequence similarity with multidrug resistance-associated protein, Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ycf1p, and the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. Use of a YOR1-lacZ fusion gene indicates that YOR1 expression is responsive to PDR1 and PDR3. While PDR5 expression is strictly dependent on the presence of PDR1 or PDR3, control of YOR1 expression has a significant PDR1/PDR3-independent component. Taken together, these data indicate that YOR1 provides the link between transcriptional regulation by PDR1 and PDR3 and oligomycin resistance of yeast cells.
MIG1-dependent and MIG1-independent glucose regulation of MAL gene expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Glucose repression is a global regulatory system in Saccharomyces cerevisiae controlling carbon-source utilization, mitochondrial biogenesis, gluconeogenesis and other metabolic pathways. Mig1p, a zinc-finger class of DNA-binding protein, is a transcriptional repressor regulating GAL and SUC gene expression in response to glucose. This report demonstrates that Mig1 protein represses transcription of the MAL61 and MAL62 structural genes and also the MAL63 gene, which encodes the Mal-activator. Mig1p DNA-binding sites were identified upstream of all three MAL genes. Both of the Mig1p-binding sites found in the bidirectional MAL61-MAL62 promoter were shown to function in the Mig1p-dependent glucose repression. Studies using constitutive Mal-activator alleles suggest that glucose regulation of inducer availability is a second major contributing factor in glucose repression of MAL gene expression and is even stronger than the Mig1p-dependent component of repression. Moreover, our results also suggest the contribution of other minor mechanisms in glucose regulation of MAL gene expression.
Sterilization of microorganisms by the supercritical carbon dioxide micro-bubble method.	Lactobacillus brevis and Saccharomyces cerevisiae were completely sterilized by the supercritical (SC) CO2 micro-bubble method. Gaseous (G) and liquid (LQ) CO2 were used in a similar manner to compare the sterilizing effect. Among the three treatments, the microorganisms were only effectively sterilized by the SC CO2 treatment at 25 MPa and 35 degrees C.
Effect of trehalose during stress in a heat-shock resistant mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Cells of a heat-shock resistant mutant were approximately 1000-times more resistant to lethal heat shock than those of the parental strain. We observed that exponentially growing cells of the mutant synthesized trehalose and showed increased osmotolerance, dehydration tolerance an ethanol tolerance, a fact not observed in wild type strains. The mutant synthesizes constitutively six proteins, among them two proteins of 56 and 63 kDa. Interestingly these molecular weights could correspond to the subunit of trehalose-6-phosphate synthase and to phosphoglucomutase II, respectively. Our results showed that glucose-growing cells of the hsr 1 mutant possessed high levels of activity of these enzymes when compared to the control strain.
Effects of cadmium and of YAP1 and CAD1/YAP2 genes on iron metabolism in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae was more resistant to cadmium when the growth medium contained excess iron. Cadmium reduced the amount of iron taken up by cells during growth, and the cell ferrireductase activity was also strongly inhibited. These effects depended on the YAP1 and CAD1/YAP2 gene dosage. The growth rate of cells in iron-deficient conditions and their ferrireductase activity in the absence of added cadmium were also strongly affected by the dosage of YAP1 and CAD1/YAP2 genes. Our results suggest an indirect influence of these genes on iron metabolism, possibly via modification of the cell redox status.
Glutathione is an essential metabolite required for resistance to oxidative stress in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Glutathione (GSH) is an abundant cellular thiol which has been implicated in numerous cellular processes and in protection against stress caused by xenobiotics, carcinogens and radiation. Our experiments address the requirement for GSH in yeast, and its role in protection against oxidative stress. Mutants which are unable to synthesis GSH due to a gene disruption in GSH 1, encoding the enzyme for the first step in the biosynthesis of GSH, require exogenous GSH for growth under non-stress conditions. Growth can also be restored with reducing agents containing a sulphydryl group, including dithiothreitol, beta-mercaptoethanol and cysteine, indicating that GSH is essential only as a reductant during normal cellular processes. In addition, the GSH 1-disruption strain is sensitive to oxidative stress caused by H2O2 and tert-butyl hydroperoxide. The requirement for GSH in protection against oxidative stress is analogous to that in higher eukaryotes, but unlike the situation in bacteria where it is dispensable for growth during both normal and oxidative stress conditions.
Molecular and functional characterization of a mutant allele of the mitogen-activated protein-kinase gene SLT2(MPK1) rescued from yeast autolytic mutants.	We have further characterized the functionality of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene SLT2(MPK1), coding for a MAP-kinase homolog essential for cell integrity, which is involved in the Pkc1p signalling pathway. This gene was isolated on the basis of its capacity to complement the thermosensitive-autolytic, osmotic-remediable phenotype of lyt2 mutants. Both slt2delta and lyt2 mutants displayed a caffeine-sensitive phenotype consisting of cell lysis that was not dependent on temperature. Caffeine concentrations affecting the growth of these mutant strains were dependent on the genetic background, the SSD1 allele being very significant in this regard. The SLT2 allele of several lyt2 strains was both rescued and amplified by PCR. The recovered allele was shown to be non-functional as it could not complement the lytic phenotype of both deletion (slt2delta) and lyt2 strains. After nucleotide sequencing of the recovered allele, we found that the defect of lyt2 mutants consists in a substitution of an aspartic acid for a glycine at position 35 of the amino-acid sequence of Slt2p. Gly35 is the third glycine of a glycine cluster (Gly-X-Gly-X-X-Gly), a conserved region in protein kinases and other nucleotide-binding proteins. Keywords Yeast middle dot SLT2 middle dot MAP-kinase middle dot Caffeine
Sensitivity of sup35 and sup45 suppressor mutants in Saccharomyces cerevisiae to the anti-microtubule drug benomyl.	SUP35 and SUP45 genes determine the accuracy of translation at the stage of termination. We present indirect evidence indicating that these genes may also control some cellular process mediated by microtubules. A majority of sup35 and sup45 suppressor mutations confer supersensitivity to benomyl, the drug which de-polymerizes microtubules. In addition, data correlating phenotypic manifestations of sup45 suppressor mutations, involving sensitivity to benomyl, respiratory deficiency and a suppressor effect, are also presented.
Characterization of COX17, a yeast gene involved in copper metabolism and assembly of cytochrome oxidase.	Mutations in the COX17 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cause a respiratory deficiency due to a block in the production of a functional cytochrome oxidase complex. Because cox17 mutants are able to express both the mitochondrially and nuclearly encoded subunits of cytochrome oxidase, the Cox17p most likely affects some late posttranslational step of the assembly pathway. A fragment of yeast nuclear DNA capable of complementing the mutation has been cloned by transformation of the cox17 mutant with a library of genomic DNA. Subcloning and sequencing of the COX17 gene revealed that it codes for a cysteine-rich protein with a molecular weight of 8,057. Unlike other previously described accessory factors involved in cytochrome oxidase assembly, all of which are components of mitochondria, Cox17p is a cytoplasmic protein. The cytoplasmic location of Cox17p suggested that it might have a function in delivery of a prosthetic group to the holoenzyme. A requirement of Cox17p in providing the copper prosthetic group of cytochrome oxidase is supported by the finding that a cox17 null mutant is rescued by the addition of copper to the growth medium. Evidence is presented indicating that Cox17p is not involved in general copper metabolism in yeast but rather has a more specific function in the delivery of copper to mitochondria.
The multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP) subfamily (Yrs1/Yor1) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is important for the tolerance to a broad range of organic anions.	We have cloned and characterized a Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene YRS1 that complements the phenotype of the mutant sensitive to the anionic drug reveromycin A. The YRS1 gene, which is identical to the recently identified YOR1 gene, encodes a protein with extensive homology to the human multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP) and the yeast cadmium factor (Ycf1). A chromosomal deletion of YRS1 lead to viable Deltayrs1 cells, which exhibited hypersensitivity to reveromycin A. Elevation of the YRS1 gene dosage in wild type cells conferred increased resistance to reveromycin A. By analyzing the effect of YRS1 disruption and overexpression it was demonstrated that Yrs1 is involved in the detoxification of a wide range of the organic anions that contain carboxyl group(s) but none of the other type of toxic compounds examined. Fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis indicated the increased accumulation of the anionic fluorescent compound rhodamine B in Deltayrs1 cells. The expression of YRS1 was induced strikingly by reveromycin A. These results suggest that Yrs1 is a multispecific organic anion transporter important for tolerance against toxic environmental organic anions. Yrs1 had an overlapping specificity with Ycf1 in the resistance to cadmium.
Induction of phenazine biosynthesis in cultures of Pseudomonas aeruginosa by L-N-(3-oxohexanoyl)homoserine lactone.	A range of Pseudomonas spp. and other Gram-negative bacteria were screened for induction of antimicrobial activity in response to the autoregulatory factor L-N-(3-oxohexanoyl)homoserine lactone. In one of these, P. aeruginosa ATCC 10145, the production of phenazine metabolites was shown to be inducible in a dose-dependent manner. The production of phenazine-1-carboxamide increased over 50-fold compared to control cultures when supplemented with 200 micrograms/ml of the autoregulator. In addition, the production of an unidentified polar antibacterial substance by this strain increased with autoregulator concentration.
Activation of S-phase-promoting CDKs in late G1 defines a "point of no return" after which Cdc6 synthesis cannot promote DNA replication in yeast.	In eukaryotic cells, DNA replication is confined to a discrete period of the cell cycle and does not usually recur until after anaphase. In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, assembly of pre-replication complexes (pre-RCs) at future origins as cells exit mitosis (or later during G1 is necessary for subsequent initiation of DNA replication triggered by activation in late G1 of Cdc28/Cdk1 kinases associated with B-type cyclins Clb1-Clb6. The absence of pre-RCs during G2 and M phases could explain why origins of DNA replication fire only once during the cell cycle, even though S-phase-promoting Cdks remain active from the beginning of S phase through the end of M phase. Formation of pre-RCs and their maintenance during G1 depend on the synthesis and activity of an unstable protein encoded by CDC6. We find that Cdc6 synthesis can only promote DNA replication in a restricted window of the cell cycle: between destruction of Clbs after anaphase and activation of Clb5/ and Clb6/Cdk1 in late G1. The latter corresponds to a "point of no return," after which Cdc6 synthesis can no longer promote DNA replication. Cdc6 protein can be made throughout the cell cycle and, in certain circumstances, can accumulate within the nuclei of G2 and M phase cells without inducing re-replication. Thus, control over Cdc6 degradation and/or nuclear localization is not crucial for preventing origin re-firing. Our data are consistent with the notion that cells can no longer incorporate de novo synthesized Cdc6 into pre-RCs once C1b/Cdk1 kinases have been activated. We show that Cdc6p associates with Clb/Cdk1 kinases from late G1 until late anaphase, which might be important for inhibiting pre-RC assembly during S, G2, and M phases. Inhibition of pre-RC assembly by the same kinases that trigger initiation explains how origins are prevented from re-firing until Clb kinases are destroyed after anaphase.
Molecular genetic analysis of volatile-anesthetic action.	The mechanism(s) and site(s) of action of volatile inhaled anesthetics are unknown in spite of the clinical use of these agents for more than 150 years. In the present study, the model eukaryote Saccharomyces cerevisiae was used to investigate the action of anesthetic agents because of its powerful molecular genetics. It was found that growth of yeast cells is inhibited by the five common volatile anesthetics tested (isoflurane, halothane, enflurane, sevoflurane, and methoxyflurane). Growth inhibition by the agents is relatively rapid and reversible. The potency of these compounds as yeast growth inhibitors directly correlates with their lipophilicity as is predicted by the Meyer-Overton relationship, which directly correlates anesthetic potency of agents and their lipophilicity. The effects of isoflurane on yeast cells were characterized in the most detail. Yeast cells survive at least 48 h in a concentration of isoflurane that inhibits colony formation. Mutants resistant to the growth-inhibitory effects of isoflurane are readily selected. The gene identified by one of these mutations, zzz4-1, has been cloned and characterized. The predicted ZZZ4 gene product has extensive homology to phospholipase A2-activating protein, a GO effector protein of mice. Both zzz4-1 and a deletion of ZZZ4 confer resistance to all five of the agents tested, suggesting that signal transduction may be involved in the response of these cells to volatile anesthetics.
Resistance to cadmium ions and formation of a cadmium-binding complex in various wild-type yeasts.	The resistance to cadmium ions (Cd-resistance) and possible formation of cadmium-binding complexes were examined in eight different wild-type yeasts. Saccharomyces exiguus, Pichia farinosa, Torulaspora delbrueckii and Schizosaccharomyces octosporus exhibited partial Cd-resistance, as compared to the Cd-resistant strain 301N and the Cu-resistant but Cd-sensitive strain X2180-1B of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Saccharomyces carlsbergensis, Pichia mogii, Zygosaccharomyces rouxii and Kluyveromyces lactis were all Cd-sensitive. The partially Cd-sensitive species, with the exception of S. exiguus, accumulated Cd2+ ions in the cytoplasmic fraction to varying extents. This fraction from S. octosporus included a Cd-binding complex that contained (gamma EC)nG peptides known as cadystins or phytochelatins, while P. farinosa and T. delbrueckii synthesized Cd-binding proteins that were similar to the Cd-metallothionein produced by S. cerevisiae 301N in terms of molecular weight and amino acid composition. These results suggest that such cytoplasmic molecules play a role in the Cd-tolerance of the above three species of yeast. S. exiguus retained most cadmium in the cell wall fraction and no Cd-binding complex was found in the cytoplasm, an indication of the important role of the cell wall in its Cd-tolerance. Different modes of binding of Cd2+ ions appear to be involved in the Cd-resistance of wild-type yeasts and fungi.
The yeast splicing factor Mud13p is a commitment complex component and corresponds to CBP20, the small subunit of the nuclear cap-binding complex.	The mechanism by which pre-mRNAs are initially recognized by the splicing machinery is not well understood. In the yeast system, commitment complexes are the earliest identified splicing complexes. They contain pre-mRNA, U1 snRNP, and the splicing factor Mud2p and probably correspond to the mammalian E complexes, which contain pre-mRNA, U1 snRNP, and the splicing factor U2AF. To identify other yeast commitment complex components, we have characterized mutant strains that are synthetic lethal with viable U1 snRNA mutations. We report here that MUD13 is a nonessential gene that encodes the yeast homolog of CBP20, the small subunit of the vertebrate nuclear cap-binding complex (CBC). Characterization of splicing in the delta-MUD13 strain and extract indicates that Mud13p is a yeast splicing factor and is the second identified non-snRNP commitment complex component. The observations also suggest that CBC interacts with other commitment complex components as well as with the substrate cap. Taken together with the accompanying results for a mammalian system, our data indicate that cap-binding proteins as well as the pre-mRNA cap contribute to early steps in spliceosome assembly.
Effects of a novel DNA-damaging agent on the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell cycle.	We have investigated the effects on Saccharomyces cerevisiae of a novel antitumour agent (FCE24517 or Tallimustine) which causes selective alkylations to adenines in the minor groove of DNA. Tallimustine, added to wild-type cells for short periods, reduced the growth rate and increased the percentage of budded cells and delayed the cell cycle in the late S + G2 + M phases. In the rad9 delta null mutant cells, Tallimustine treatment did not affect growth rate and the percentage of budded cells but greatly reduced cell viability compared to isogenic cells. Consistent with a role of RAD9 in inducing a transient delay in G2 phase which preserves cell viability, the potent cytotoxic effect of the drug on rad9 delta cells was alleviated by treatment with nocodazole. Tallimustine was also found to delay the resumption from G1 arrest of wild-type but not of rad9 delta cells. These data indicate that the effects of Tallimustine on cell cycle progression in yeast are mediated by the RAD9 gene product. From our data it appears that yeast could be a valuable model system to study the mode of action of this alkylating drug and of minor groove alkylators in general.
Isolation and genetic characterization of pGKL killer-insensitive mutants (iki) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The linear double stranded DNA plasmid pGKL1 encodes the yeast killer toxin complex (Gunge et al., 1981) of which the killing mechanism is not understood. We isolated and characterized eight mutants in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that were insensitive to both the intracellularly expressed 28-kDa killer subunit and the native killer toxin complex. These mutations (iki1 through iki5) were all recessive, and classified into five complementation groups. The iki2 mutation was mapped to a position near the centromere on chromosome XIII. We developed a novel screening system to isolate the DNA fragments complementing the iki mutations from a Saccharomyces gene library, and isolated three DNA fragments that complement the iki1, iki3, and iki4 mutations, respectively.
Mechanisms regulating the transport of acetic acid in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Cells of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae IGC 4072 grown in medium with acetic acid produced a mediated transport system for acetic acid that behaved as an electroneutral proton symport for the anionic form of the acid. The system could transport propionate and formate but not lactate and pyruvate. Uptake of labelled lactic acid was negligible, no mediated transport system activity for this acid being found. The acetate transporter was also found in cells grown in lactic acid or ethanol media, suggesting that the carrier did not require the presence of an external inducer. When cells were grown in lactic acid medium, uptake of labelled acetic acid, at pH 5.0, was biphasic and consistent with the presence of two distinct transport modes for the acid. One of these components corresponded to the acetate/proton symport, and the higher affinity system corresponded to a more general monocarboxylate carrier that could also transport lactate, pyruvate and propionate. Both systems were subject to repression by glucose, fructose, sucrose, maltose or galactose. In glucose-repressed cells, the undissociated form of the acids appeared to be the only one that could cross the plasma membrane, a diffusion mechanism being involved in the acid uptake. Under these growth conditions and when the extracellular pH was lower than that of the cytosol, accumulation of the acid could also be observed, it being a function of the delta pH.
'Fusel' alcohols induce hyphal-like extensions and pseudohyphal formation in yeasts.	At a concentration of 0.5% (v/v), isoamyl alcohol induced the formation of hyphal-like extensions in haploid and diploid strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae in liquid complex medium. These extensions, which develop via bud initiation and elongation, undergo DNA replication and nuclear division and appear similar in many respects to an aberrant form of the cell division cycle. However, in 0.25% (v/v) isoamyl alcohol, S. cerevisiae formed pseudohyphae. Other 'fusel' alcohols (which are the products of amino acid catabolism) also induced hyphal-like extensions in this yeast, with n-amyl alcohol being as equally effective as isoamyl alcohol. Isoamyl alcohol induced the formation of pseudohyphae in two species of Candida and both hyphal-like extensions and pseudohyphae in Brettanomyces anomalus, suggesting a close relationship or a common basis to the development of the two morphologies.
Role of PM-ATPase, amino acid transport and free amino acid pool in the salt stress of, Candida membranefaciens.	The salt tolerant yeast Candida membranefaciens exhibited a pleiotropic modification in response to high NaCl stress. The in vivo specific activity of Plasma Membrane-ATPase (PM-ATPase) of 1.35 M NaCl adapted cells was enhanced at the mid-log phase. The enhancement in the PM-ATPase activity was NaCl specific as cells stressed with identical concentration of KCl did not have any effect on PM-ATPase. The NaCl specific enhancement in the PM-ATPase activity was associated with decreased Km. Studies on H+ efflux correlated with the results of PM-ATPase. However, in vitro incubation of the enzyme with exogenously added salts like NaCl and KCl invariably inhibited enzyme activity by 70-90% in a dose dependent manner to suggest that in vivo effects of the salts on PM-ATPase were different from the in vitro effects. C. membranefaciens showed a higher intracellular levels of glutamate and aspartate in presence of 1.35 M NaCl which may impart osmoprotection to the stressed cells. It was interesting to observe that the transport activities of aspartate and glutamate were not enhanced according to their relative proportion in the total pool of free amino acids. Instead, transport of these and other amino acids (except lysine and arginine) showed a drastic reduction (upto 90%) in the 1.35 M NaCl grown cells.
DNA photodamage, repair, gene induction and genotoxicity following exposures to 254 nm UV and 8-methoxypsoralen plus UVA in a eukaryotic cell system.	The induction and repair of different types of photodamage and photogenotoxicity in eukaryotic cells have been the subject of many studies. Little is known about possible links between these phenomena and the induction of DNA damage-inducible genes. We explored this relationship using the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a pertinent eukaryotic model. Previous results showed that the photogenotoxic potential of 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) plus UVA is higher than that of UV (254 nm). Moreover, the induction of the ribonucleotide reductase gene RNR2 by UV and 8-MOP plus UVA in an RNR2-LACZ fusion strain and the formation of DNA double-strand breaks (dsb) as repair intermediates after such treatments suggest that the latter process could involve a signal for gene induction. To further substantiate this, we measured the induction of the DNA repair gene RAD51 in RAD51-LACZ fusion strains using the dsb repair and recombination deficient mutant rad52 and the corresponding wild type, and we determined the formation of dsb by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. After treatments, the resealing of dsb formed as repair intermediates was impaired in the rad52 mutant. At equal doses, i.e. the same number of lesions, the induction of the RAD51 gene by UV or 8-MOP plus UVA was significantly reduced in the rad52 mutant as compared with the wild type. The same was true when equitoxic doses were used. Thus, the RAD52 repair pathway appears to play an important role not only in dsb repair but also in gene induction. Furthermore, the signaling pathways initiated by DNA damage and its processing are somewhat linked to the photogenotoxic response.
Specific cell wall proteins confer resistance to nisin upon yeast cells.	The cell wall of a yeast cell forms a barrier for various proteinaceous and nonproteinaceous molecules. Nisin, a small polypeptide and a well-known preservative active against gram-positive bacteria, was tested with wild-type Saccharomyces cerevisiae. This peptide had no effect on intact cells. However, removal of the cell wall facilitated access of nisin to the membrane and led to cell rupture. The roles of individual components of the cell wall in protection against nisin were studied by using synchronized cultures. Variation in nisin sensitivity was observed during the cell cycle. In the S phase, which is the phase in the cell cycle in which the permeability of the yeast wall to fluorescein isothiocyanate dextrans is highest, the cells were most sensitive to nisin. In contrast, the cells were most resistant to nisin after a peak in expression of the mRNA of cell wall protein 2 (Cwp2p), which coincided with the G2 phase of the cell cycle. A mutant lacking Cwp2p has been shown to be more sensitive to cell wall-interfering compounds and Zymolyase (J. M. Van der Vaart, L. H. Caro, J. W. Chapman, F. M. Klis, and C. T. Verrips, J. Bacteriol. 177:3104-3110, 1995). Here we show that of the single cell wall protein knockouts, a Cwp2p-deficient mutant is most sensitive to nisin. A mutant with a double knockout of Cwp1p and Cwp2p is hypersensitive to the peptide. Finally, in yeast mutants with impaired cell wall structure, expression of both CWP1 and CWP2 was modified. We concluded that Cwp2p plays a prominent role in protection of cells against antimicrobial peptides, such as nisin, and that Cwp1p and Cwp2p play a key role in the formation of a normal cell wall.
Polyamine metabolism in Saccharomyces cerevisiae exposed to ethanol.	Growth of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae was unaffected by up to 24 h exposure to ethanol concentrations ranging from 1% to 9%, but was reduced following exposure to 12% ethanol. Concentrations of the polyamines putrescine, cadaverine and spermidine were not affected by a 24 h exposure to 12% ethanol, although there was a significant increase in spermine level. These changes were accompanied by significant increases in the activities of the polyamine biosynthetic enzymes ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) and S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (AdoMetDC) and in the flux of label from ornithine into the polyamines. Formation of the cadaverine derivatives aminopropylcadaverine and N,N-bis(3-aminopropyl)cadaverine was greatly increased in yeast exposed to 12% ethanol for 24 h, probably via the action of ODC, AdoMetDC and the aminopropyltransferases. Exposure to 12% ethanol also led to substantial reductions in the uptake of putrescine and spermidine and the amino acid methionine.
The role of glucosidase I (Cwh41p) in the biosynthesis of cell wall beta-1,6-glucan is indirect.	CWH41, a gene involved in the assembly of cell wall beta-1,6-glucan, has recently been shown to be the structural gene for Saccharomyces cerevisiae glucosidase I that is responsible for initiating the trimming of terminal alpha-1,2-glucose residue in the N-glycan processing pathway. To distinguish between a direct or indirect role of Cwh41p in the biosynthesis of beta-1,6-glucan, we constructed a double mutant, alg5Delta (lacking dolichol-P-glucose synthase) cwh41Delta, and found that it has the same phenotype as the alg5Delta single mutant. It contains wild-type levels of cell wall beta-1,6-glucan, shows moderate underglycosylation of N-linked glycoproteins, and grows at concentrations of Calcofluor White (which interferes with cell wall assembly) that are lethal to cwh41Delta single mutant. The strong genetic interactions of CWH41 with KRE6 and KRE1, two other genes involved in the beta-1,6-glucan biosynthetic pathway, disappear in the absence of dolichol-P-glucose synthase (alg5Delta). The triple mutant alg5Deltacwh41Deltakre6Delta is viable, whereas the double mutant cwh41Deltakre6Delta in the same genetic background is not. The severe slow growth phenotype and 75% reduction in cell wall beta-1,6-glucan, characteristic of the cwh41Deltakre1Delta double mutant, are not observed in the triple mutant alg5Deltacwh41Deltakre1Delta. Kre6p, a putative Golgi glucan synthase, is unstable in cwh41Delta strains, and its overexpression renders these cells Calcofluor White resistant. These results demonstrate that the role of glucosidase I (Cwh41p) in the biosynthesis of cell wall beta-1,6-glucan is indirect and that dolichol-P-glucose is not an intermediate in this pathway.
Yeast gene YRR1, which is required for resistance to 4-nitroquinoline N-oxide, mediates transcriptional activation of the multidrug resistance transporter gene SNQ2.	We have cloned and characterized a Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene YRR1 that is important for resistance to the mutagen 4-nitroquinoline N-oxide (4-NQO). The wild-type YRR1 gene encodes a protein that contains a Zn(II)2Cys6-type zinc-finger motif. Disruption of the YRR1 gene leads to hypersensitivity to 4-NQO. A dominant mutation (YRR1-1) that confers strong resistance to 4-NQO has been identified. Epistasis analysis demonstrated that 4-NQO resistances mediated by the YRR1 and YRR1-1 alleles require the presence of the SNQ2 gene that encodes a multidrug resistance ATP binding cassette superfamily protein responsible for 4-NQO export. Northern blot analysis of SNQ2 mRNA levels indicated that Yrr1p is involved in basal and drug-induced transcriptional activation of SNQ2, whereas Pdr1p/Pdr3p transcription factors are mainly involved in basal SNQ2 expression. In the YRR1-1 mutant, the level of SNQ2 mRNA is constitutively elevated. These results establish that Yrr1p is important for 4-NQO resistance by mediating transcriptional activation of the SNQ2 gene in response to the stress imposed by 4-NQO. The gain-of-function mutation of Yrr1-1p was attributable to the duplication of a 12-amino-acid sequence generated near the carboxy terminus.
Catabolite inactivation of the maltose transporter in nitrogen-starved yeast could be due to the stimulation of general protein turnover.	Addition of glucose to Saccharomyces cerevisiae inactivates the maltose transporter. The general consensus is that this inactivation, called catabolite inactivation, is one of the control mechanisms developed by this organism to use glucose preferentially whenever it is available. Using nitrogen-starved cells (resting cells), it has been shown that glucose triggers endocytosis and degradation of the transporter in the vacuole. We now show that maltose itself triggers inactivation and degradation of its own transporter as efficiently as glucose. This fact, and the observation that glucose inactivates a variety of plasma membrane proteins including glucose transporters themselves, suggests that catabolite inactivation of the maltose transporter in nitrogen-starved cells is not a control mechanism specifically directed to ensure a preferential use of glucose. It is proposed that, in this metabolic condition, inactivation of the maltose transporter might be due to the stimulation of the general protein turnover that follows nitrogen starvation.
Rearrangements in minisatellite sequences induced by aflatoxin B1 in a metabolically competent strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The role of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) in the induction of rearrangements affecting minisatellite sequences was studied in an in vitro yeast model. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain used expresses human cytochrome P450 1A2 and NADPH-cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase and has previously been used to study genetic recombination events induced by AFB1. DNA multilocus fingerprinting was performed using probe M13 core hybridizing to a set of hypervariable minisatellite sequences in S. cerevisiae. Frequent spontaneous genomic alterations that affect the minisatellite fingerprint pattern were observed. Control cultures showed 15.8% rearrangements in minisatellites, and this frequency increased to 40.0% in cultures exposed to AFB1 (80 microg/ml). A total of approximately 29 minisatellite loci were visualized for each culture. Given the number of cultures examined (40 AFB1-treated and 38 controls) the rearrangement frequency per detectable minisatellite was 2.59% in the AFB1-treated group and 0.73% in the control group, which represents a statistically significant (P = 0.001) difference. Thus, our data strongly suggest that AFB1 can promote the genetic events responsible for minisatellite rearrangements in the yeast genome. Such genetic rearrangements may be important events during the etiology of liver carcinogenesis in people chronically exposed to dietary aflatoxins.
MTO1 codes for a mitochondrial protein required for respiration in paromomycin-resistant mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Mutations in MTO1 express a respiratory defect only in the context of a mitochondrial genome with a paromomycin-resistance allele. This phenotype is similar to that described previously for mss1 mutants by Decoster, E., Vassal, A., and Faye, G. (1993) J. Mol. Biol. 232, 79-88. We present evidence that Mto1p and Mss1p are mitochondrial proteins and that they form a heterodimer complex. In a paromomycin-resistant background, mss1 and mto1 mutants are inefficient in processing the mitochondrial COX1 transcript for subunit 1 of cytochrome oxidase. The mutants also fail to synthesize subunit 1 and show a pleiotropic absence of cytochromes a, a3, and b. In vivo pulse labeling of an mto1 mutant, however, indicate increased rates of synthesis of other mitochondrial translation products. The respiratory defective phenotype of mto1 and mss1 mutants is not seen in a paromomycin-sensitive genetic background. The visible absorption spectra of such strains indicate a higher ratio of cytochromes b/a and elevated NADH- and succinate-cytochrome c reductase activities. To explain these phenotypic characteristics, we proposed that the Mto1p.Mss1p complex plays a role in optimizing mitochondrial protein synthesis in yeast, possibly by a proofreading mechanism.
Defects in base excision repair combined with elevated intracellular dCTP levels dramatically reduce mutation induction in yeast by ethyl methanesulfonate and N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine.	Previously, we determined that elimination of deoxycytidylate (dCMP) deaminase (DCD1) in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae increases the intracellular dCTP:dTTP ratio and reduces the induction of G x C --> A x T transitions in the SUP4-o gene by ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) and N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG). Simultaneously, the G x C --> C x G transversion frequency rises substantially. We attributed the first response to dCTP outcompeting dTTP for incorporation opposite O6-alkylguanine, and the second outcome to the increased dCTP pool causing error-prone repair of apurinic (AP) sites resulting from the removal or lability of N7-alkylguanine. To test the latter hypothesis, we used isogenic dcd1 strains deleted for either of two genes (MAG1: 3-methyladenine glycosylase; APN1: apurinic endonuclease) involved in the repair of N7-alkylguanine. In these backgrounds, EMS or MNNG induction of total SUP4-o mutations, G x C --> A x T transitions and G x C --> C x G transversions were reduced by >98%, >97%, and >80%, respectively. Mutation frequencies in the dcd1 apn1 strain were close to those for spontaneous mutagenesis in the wild-type parent. These findings argue that misincorporation of dCTP during repair of alkylation-induced AP sites is responsible for the increased G x C --> C x G transversion frequency in the dcd1 strain treated with EMS or MNNG. The data also demonstrate that defective repair of AP sites coupled with an elevated dCTP:dTTP ratio eliminates most EMS and MNNG mutagenesis. In addition, the results point to a role for AP sites in the production of some EMS- and MNNG-induced G x C --> A x T transitions as well as other substitutions in the dcd1 strain.
Ubiquitination and degradation of the substrate recognition subunits of SCF ubiquitin-protein ligases.	The S. cerevisiae SCFCdc4p ubiquitin-protein ligase complex promotes cell cycle transitions through degradation of cell cycle regulators. To investigate SCFCdc4p regulation in vivo, we examined the stability of individual SCFCdc4p components. Whereas Cdc53p and Skp1p were stable, Cdc4p, the F box-containing component responsible for substrate recognition, was short lived and subject to SCF-mediated ubiquitination. Grr1p, another F box component of SCF complexes, was also ubiquitinated. A stable truncated Cdc4pF-beta-gal hybrid protein capable of binding Skp1p and entering into an SCF complex interfered with proteolysis of SCF targets and inhibited cell proliferation. The finding that the F box-containing SCF components are unstable suggests a mechanism of regulating SCF function through ubiquitination and proteolysis of F box components.
The histone H3-like TAF is broadly required for transcription in yeast.	In yeast cells, independent depletion of TAFs (130, 67, 40, and 19) found specifically in TFIID results in selective effects on transcription, including a common effect on his3 core promoter function. In contrast, depletion of TAF17, which is also present in the SAGA histone acetylase complex, causes a decrease in transcription of most genes. However, TAF17-depleted cells maintain Ace1-dependent activation, and they induce de novo activation by heat shock factor in a manner predominantly associated with the activator, not the core promoter. Thus, TAF17 is broadly, but not universally, required for transcription in yeast, TAF17 depletion and TAF130 depletion each disrupt TFIID integrity yet cause different transcriptional consequences, suggesting that the widespread influence of TAF17 might not be due solely to its function in TFIID.
yTAFII61 has a general role in RNA polymerase II transcription and is required by Gcn4p to recruit the SAGA coactivator complex.	We obtained a recessive insertion mutation in the gene encoding yeast TBP-associated factor yTAFII61/68 that impairs Gcn4p-independent and Gcn4p-activated HIS3 transcription. This mutation also reduces transcription of seven other class II genes, thus indicating a broad role for this yTAFII in RNA polymerase II transcription. The Gcn4p activation domain interacts with multiple components of the SAGA complex in cell extracts, including the yTAFII proteins associated with SAGA, but not with two yTAFIIs restricted to TFIID. The taf61-1 mutation impairs binding of Gcn4p to SAGA/yTAFII subunits but not to components of holoenzyme mediator. Our results provide strong evidence that recruitment of SAGA, in addition to holoenzyme, is crucial for activation by Gcn4p in vivo and that yTAFII61 plays a key role in this process.
C-terminal truncation of yeast SerRS is toxic for Saccharomyces cerevisiae due to altered mechanism of substrate recognition.	Like all other eukaryal cytosolic seryl-tRNA synthetase (SerRS) enzymes, Saccharomyces cerevisiae SerRS contains a C-terminal extension not found in the enzymes of eubacterial and archaeal origin. Overexpression of C-terminally truncated SerRS lacking the 20-amino acid appended domain (SerRSC20) is toxic to S. cerevisiae possibly because of altered substrate recognition. Compared to wild-type SerRS the truncated enzyme displays impaired tRNA-dependent serine recognition and is less stable. This suggests that the C-terminal peptide is important for the formation or maintenance of the enzyme structure optimal for substrate binding and catalysis.
Cisplatin sensitivity in cAMP-dependent protein kinase mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The emergence of cisplatin resistance poses a significant problem to the treatment of a variety of human malignancies. Therefore, understanding the molecular basis of cisplatin resistance could improve the clinical effectiveness of this anticancer agent. Recently, our laboratory has demonstrated that cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) mutants of the Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) and the mouse adrenocortical carcinoma Y1 cells exhibited increased resistance to cisplatin as well as other DNA-damaging drugs. Further studies showed that either the functional inactivation of PKA or the mutation in the regulatory subunit gene may cause increased recognition of cisplatin-damaged DNA and enhanced DNA repair capacity. In this study, we evaluated the role of PKA in modulating cellular sensitivity to cisplatin in a series of PKA mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Mutants with decreased kinase activity resulting from a srv2 mutation showed no alterations in cisplatin sensitivity. Complementation of TPK1 in a yeast strain containing mutant tpk1 and also tpk2 and tpk3 deletions did not significantly alter its sensitivity to this DNA-damaging agent. Yeast transformants containing increased kinase activity resulting from overexpression of RAS2Val19 or TPK1 and yeast strains having increased kinase activities due to mutations in the BCY1 gene also did not show alterations in their sensitivity to cisplatin. Therefore, results from these studies unambiguously demonstrate that changes in PKA activity have no effect on cisplatin sensitivity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Decreased CD11b expression, phagocytosis, and oxidative burst in urban particulate pollution-exposed human monocytes and alveolar macrophages.	Elevated levels of air pollution particulates < or = 10 microm in diameter (PM10) have been associated with an increase in mortality and morbidity due to pulmonary complications, including pneumonia. Impairment of inflammatory and host defense functions of the alveolar macrophage (AM) may be a precipitating factor. The present study was undertaken to determine whether human AM and blood derived monocytes (MO) modulate the expression of receptors important for phagocytosis of opsonized microbes (CD11b, CD11c), gram-negative bacteria (CD14), extracellular matrix interaction (CD29), and immune responses (CD11a, CD54, HLA-DR) when exposed to particulates obtained from urban air (UAP). Furthermore, phagocytosis of and oxidant generation by opsonized yeast were investigated in particle-exposed cells. AM and MO exposed to UAP for 18 h expressed significantly lower levels of CD11b and CD29. CD14 expression was markedly decreased in MO but not in AM, and CD11c was reduced in AM but not in MO. CD11a, CD54, and HLA-DR were unaltered in both phagocyte populations. Decreased receptor expression was not dependent on particle load in the cells. Phagocytosis of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the chemiluminescence response were also significantly inhibited by UAP. Time-course studies revealed that decreased oxidant generation was evident already at 3 h postexposure, while significant effects on phagocytosis and CD11b expression were found at 18 h. These data indicate that exposure to particulate pollution is likely to impair host defense functions of AM and MO, which are important in elimination of a variety of pathogens in the lung.
Different sources of acidity in glucose-elicited extracellular acidification in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Three wild-type strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, viz. K, Y55 and sigma 1278b, two mutants lacking one or both of the putative K+ transporters, trk1 delta and trk1 delta trk2 delta, and a mutant in the plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase, viz. pma1-105, were compared in their extracellular acidification following addition of glucose and subsequent addition of KCl; in ATPase activity in purified plasma membranes; and in respiration on glucose. The glucose-induced acidification was the greater the higher the respiratory quotient, i.e. the higher the anaerobic metabolism. A markedly lower acidification was found in the ATPase-deficient pma1-105 strain but also in the TRK-deficient double mutant. The acidification pattern after addition of KCl corresponds to expectations in the TRK mutants; however, a similarly decreased acid production was found in the ATPase-deficient mutant pma1-105. The highest rate of ATP hydrolysis in vitro was found with the trk1 delta trk2 delta mutant where glucose-, as well as KCl-induced acidification were lowest. Likewise, the pma1-105 mutant with extremely low acidification showed only a minutely lower ATP hydrolysis than did its parent Y55 strain. Apparently, several different sources of acidity are involved in the glucose-induced acidification (including extrusion of organic acids); in fact, contrary to the general belief, the H(+)-ATPase may play a minor role in this process in some strains.
Efficient initiation of S-phase in yeast requires Cdc40p, a protein involved in pre-mRNA splicing.	The S. cerevisiae CDC40 gene was originally identified as a cell-division-specific gene that is essential only at elevated temperatures. Cells carrying mutations in this gene arrest with a large bud and a single nucleus with duplicated DNA content. Cdc40p is also required for spindle establishment or maintenance. Sequence analysis reveals that CDC40 is identical to PRP17, a gene involved in pre-mRNA splicing. In this paper, we show that Cdc40p is required at all temperatures for efficient entry into S-phase and that cell cycle arrest associated with cdc40 mutations is independent of all the known checkpoint mechanisms. Using immunofluorescence, we show that Cdc40p is localized to the nuclear membrane, weakly associated with the nuclear pore. Our results point to a link between cell cycle progression, pre-mRNA splicing, and mRNA export.
Short-run tests for determining harmful effects of PCB-containing engine oils on cells.	Our main objective was to set up reproducible methods for a rapid determination of harmful effects of PCB-containing engine oils on cells. We used a plate method and Scenedesmus quadricauda, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Rhodotorula glutinis and Pseudomonas putida as test organisms.
Activation of the H+-ATPase in the plasma membrane of cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae grown under mild copper stress.	Cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae exhibited a more active plasma membrane H+-ATPase during growth in media supplemented with CuSO4 concentrations equal to or below 1 mM than did cells cultivated in the absence of copper stress. Maximal specific activities were found with 0.5 mM CuSO4. ATPase activity declined when cells were grown with higher concentrations up to 1.5 mM (the maximal concentration that allowed growth), probably due to severe disorganization of plasma membrane. Cu2+-induced maximal activation was reflected in an increase of Vmax (approximately threefold) and in the slight decrease of the Km for MgATP (from 0.93 +/- 0.13 to 0.65 +/- 0.16 mM). The expression of the gene encoding the essential plasma membrane ATPase (PMA1) was reduced with a dose-dependent pattern in cells grown with Inhibitory concentrations of copper, while the weakly expressed PMA2 gene promoter was moderately more efficient in cells cultivated under mild copper stress (1.5-fold maximal activation). ATPase was activated by copper despite the slightly lower content of ATPase protein in the plasma membrane of Cu2+-grown cells and the powerful inhibitory effect of Cu2+ in vitro.
Glucose repression on RIM1, a gene encoding a mitochondrial single-stranded DNA-binding protein, in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: a possible regulation at pre-mRNA splicing.	The mitochondrial single-stranded DNA-binding protein (SSB) encoded by anuclear gene, RIM1, is a homolog of Escherichia coli SSB. The addition of glucose decreased the amount of RIM1-mRNA in cells growing in a glycerol medium, but increased the amount of the immature RIM1-mRNA. The changes in the amounts of both mature and immature RIM1-mRNAs were dependent on SRN1/REG1/HEX2, a gene relating to pre-mRNA-splicing and glucose repression. These observations suggest that the expression of the mitochondrial SSB is regulated, at least in part, by pre-mRNA splicing under the control of glucose repression.
Comparison of the inhibitory effect of sorbic acid and amphotericin B on Saccharomyces cerevisiae: is growth inhibition dependent on reduced intracellular pH?	The effects of sorbic acid and amphotericin B on the growth and intracellular pH (pHi) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were studied and compared. Past evidence has suggested that the inhibitory action of sorbic acid on yeast is due to reduction of pHi per se. However, using a novel method to measure pHi in growing cells, little correlation was found between reduced growth rate on exposure to sorbic acid and reduction of pHi. In fact, growth inhibition correlated with an increase in the intracellular ADP/ATP ratio due to increased ATP consumption by the cells. This was partly attributed to the activation of protective mechanisms, such as increased proton pumping by the membrane H(+)-ATPase, which ensured that pHi did not decline when cells were exposed to sorbic acid. Therefore, the available evidence suggested that the inhibitory action of sorbic acid was due to the induction of an energetically expensive protective mechanism that compensated for any disruption of pHi homeostasis but resulted in less available energy for normal growth. In contrast to sorbic acid, with amphotericin B there was a direct correlation between growth inhibition and reduction of pHi due to the uncoupling effect of this compound on the plasma membrane. The inhibitory effect of amphotericin B was consistent with membrane disruption, or 'proton-uncoupling' leading to growth inhibition due to proton influx, decline in pHi and partial dissipation of the proton gradient.
The effect of magnesium ions during beer fermentation.	When cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae ale strain C1028 were grown aerobically, ethanol production displayed a hyperbolic increase over a limited range of magnesium concentrations up to approximately 0.7 mM. Entry of cells into the stationary growth phase and the time of maximum ethanol and minimum sugar concentrations correlated with a period of maximum Mg2+ concentration in the growing media. It is suggested that magnesium accumulation by yeast cells may be usefully exploited in biotechnology concerned with the production of beer.
Alkyl side-chain derivatives of sordaricin as potent antifungal agents against yeast.	Sordarin (1) was converted to 5 and 6, which showed potent antifungal activity against yeast. A series of C1-C9 alkyl side-chain derivatives was prepared, from which it was found that the optimal activity occurred with C5. A comparison of side chains with different unsaturation showed that the cis-alkene was the most active. This result suggested that the folding of the side chains might be crucial for the optimal activity.
New antifungals selected by molecular topology.	Molecular topology has been applied to find the new lead antimycotic compounds. Among the selected compounds stands out 3,3'-(4,4'-Biphenylene)bis(2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium chloride), Benztropine mesylate and Dicyclopentamethylenethiuram disulphide, with minimum inhibitory concentrations between 1.6 and 2 micrograms/mL.
