Structure activity relationship of inhibitors specific for prolyl endopeptidase.	Structural requirements of N-blocked L-proline derivatives as specific inhibitors for prolyl endopeptidase were investigated using a series of substrate analogs. Replacement of L-proline by its D-isomer remarkably reduced the inhibition. Introduction of a sulfur atom in proline and/or in the penultimate pyrrolidine rings significantly increased the inhibition, but the introduction of oxygen rather diminished the activity. A peptide linkage (acid-amide bond) between the proline and the pyrrolidine ring was also required to keep the inhibitory activity. A benzyloxycarbonyl group was most effective as an N-blocked component of the inhibitors.
Discovery of a novel small molecule, 1-ethoxy-3-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)-2-propanol, that induces apoptosis in A549 human lung cancer cells.	A novel small molecule, 1-ethoxy-3-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)-2-propanol (EOD), was synthesized in our laboratory. Previously, we reported pharmacological properties of EOD, triggering apoptosis in Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Here, we further investigated the effects of EOD on the growth of A549 human lung cancer cells. EOD treatment induced apoptosis in A549 cells via up-regulating the expression of P53 protein, blocking cell cycle partly at G1 phase, and ultimately activating caspase-3. In contrast, caspase-8 might be irrelevant to EOD-triggered apoptosis. This study indicated that EOD might be a potential chemopreventive agent for lung cancer. The work would encourage us to add more novel compounds to our 'library' of small molecules derived through modern synthetic organic chemistry, and would drive us to determine the proteins that the compounds target.
Analysis of disulfoton sulfoxide in chingentsuai by pulsed splitless mass spectrometry using programmed temperature vaporization (PTV) inlet]	A peak considered to be due to disulfoton sulfoxide as a metabolite of disulfoton was detected in the analysis of the chingentsuai extraction solution of vegetables by GC-FPD. In the analysis by GC/MS for identification, though the retention time and the mass spectrum were the same as those of the standard, the spectrum was different from MS library data. It appeared that decomposition of disulfoton sulfoxide occurred at the inlet. Therefore, we used a programmed temperature vaporization (PTV) inlet in the pulsed splitless mode to achieve a low inlet temperature and high injection pressure. As a result, the expected mass spectrum of disulfoton sulfoxide was obtained. Under this condition, the peak obtained from chingentsuai was identified as disulfoton sulfoxide. Disulfoton sulfoxide was detected from 2 of 25 chingentsuai samples, at concentrations of 0.66 microg/g and 0.14 microg/g.
Safrole oxide is a useful tool for investigating the effect of apoptosis in vascular endothelial cells on neural stem cell survival and differentiation in vitro.	Previously, we found safrole oxide could promote VEC apoptosis, however, it is not known whether it can induce NSC apoptosis. It is reported that neural stem cells (NSCs) are localized in a vascular niche. But the effects of apoptosis in vascular endothelial cells (VEC) on NSC growth and differentiation are not clear. To answer these questions, in this study, we co-cultured NSCs with VECs in order to imitate the situation in vivo, in which NSCs are associated with the endothelium, and treated the single-cultured NSCs and the co-cultured NSCs with safrole oxide. The results showed that safrole oxide (10-100 microg/mL) had no effects on NSC growth. Based on these results, we treated the co-culture system with this small molecule. The results showed that the NSCs differentiation, into neurons and gliacytes was induced by VECs untreated with safrole oxide. But in the co-culture system treated with safrole oxide, the NSCs underwent apoptosis. The data suggested that when VEC apoptosis occurred in the co-culture system, the NSC survival and differentiation could not be maintained, and NSCs died by apoptosis. Our finding provided a useful tool for investigating the effect of apoptosis in vascular endothelial cells on neural stem cell survival and differentiation in vitro.
Synthetic approaches to monofluoroalkenes.	Monofluoroalkenes are an important fluorinated class of compounds with applications in medicinal chemistry, material sciences and organic chemistry. An overview of methods allowing synthetic access to these fluorinated building blocks is provided. In particular, this critical review, which covers publications up to October 2010, will be divided according to the substitution pattern of the monofluoroalkenes, i.e. di-, tri- or tetra-substituted. Within each group, the various synthetic approaches will be divided according to the reaction type (282 references).
Enantiopure 1,4-diols and 1,4-aminoalcohols via stereoselective acyclic sulfoxide-sulfenate rearrangement.	Treatment of acyclic α-hydroxy and α-tosylamino sulfinyl dienes with amines affords enantiopure 1,4-diol or 1,4-hydroxysulfonamide derivatives in good yields and diastereoselectivities. This one-pot procedure entails a conjugate addition that triggers a diastereoselective sulfoxide-sulfenate [2,3]-sigmatropic rearrangement.
Determination of aldicarb and its metabolites in peanuts by high performance liquid chromatography-linear ion trap triple stage mass spectrometry]	A high performance liquid chromatography-linear ion trap triple stage mass spectrometry (HPLC-IT/MS3) method was established to detect aldicarb, aldicarb sulfoxide, and aldicarb sulfone in peanuts. The samples were extracted by acetonitrile saturated with cyclohexane, followed by clean-up with gel permeation chromatography (GPC). The determination was performed using HPLC-IT/MS3 for the identification and quantification of the compounds. The separation was carried on a Capcell PAK CR column with gradient elution using 5 mmol/L acetic acid/ammonium acetate/acetonitrile as mobile phase. The ionization of molecules was performed by electrospray mode. Selective reaction monitoring (SRM) was the acquisition mode used for the monitoring of MS3 transitions for each compound using aldicarb-d3 as internal standard for three analytes. Matrix effects were evaluated by comparing the recovery of matrix-matched and solvent-based calibration curves. The calibration graphs were linear in the ranges of 10 - 500 microg/L and the detection limits ranged from 4 to 5 microg/kg. The average recoveries ranged between 81.5% and 115% at three different spiked levels (10, 20 and 40 microg/kg). Satisfactory results were obtained in the determination of real peanut samples by this method.
Synthesis and antiviral activity of a novel glycosyl sulfoxide against classical swine fever virus.	A novel compound-2″,3″,4″,6″-tetra-O-acetyl-β-d-galactopyranosyl-(1→4)-2',3',6'-tri-O-acetyl-1-thio-β-d-glucopyranosyl-(5-nitro-2-pyridyl) sulfoxide-designated GP6 was synthesized and assayed for cytotoxicity and in vitro antiviral properties against classical swine fever virus (CSFV) in this study. We showed that the examined compound effectively arrested CSFV growth in swine kidney cells (SK6) at a 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 5 ± 0.12 μg/ml without significant toxicity for mammalian cells. Moreover, GP6 reduced the viral E2 and E(rns) glycoproteins expression in a dose-dependent manner. We have excluded the possibility that the inhibitor acts at the replication step of virus life cycle as assessed by monitoring of RNA level in cells and culture medium of SK6 cells after single round of infection as a function of GP6 treatment. Using recombinant E(rns) and E2 proteins of classical swine fever virus produced in baculovirus expression system we have demonstrated that GP6 did not influence glycoprotein production and maturation in insect cells. In contrast to mammalian glycosylation pathway, insect cells support only the ER-dependent early steps of this process. Therefore, we concluded that the late steps of glycosylation process are probably the main targets of GP6. Due to the observed antiviral effect accompanied by low cytotoxicity, this inhibitor represents potential candidate for the development of antiviral agents for anti-flavivirus therapy. Further experiments are needed for investigating whether this compound can be used as a safe antiviral agent against other viruses from unrelated groups.
Inhibition of cytochrome P-450c-mediated benzo[a]pyrene hydroxylase and ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase by dihydrosafrole.	1. Inhibitory activity of dihydrosafrole towards benzo[a]pyrene (BP) hydroxylase activity in hepatic microsomes from beta-naphthoflavone (BNF)-induced rats, and in reconstituted systems containing cytochrome P-450c, increased dramatically on preincubation of the inhibitor with NADPH; no inhibition occurred without preincubation. The level of BP hydroxylase inhibition was associated with the progressive formation of the 456 nm dihydrosafrole metabolite-cytochrome P-450c spectral complex during preincubation. 2. Inhibition of BP hydroxylase by dihydrosafrole in control microsomes, and inhibition of ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) in microsomes (control or BNF-induced) and in reconstituted systems with cytochrome P-450c, did not require preincubation and apparently was not dependent on prior formation of the dihydrosafrole metabolite-cytochrome P-450 complex. 3. Kinetic studies established that, following preincubation with NADPH, dihydrosafrole was a noncompetitive inhibitor of both BP hydroxylase and EROD activities. In the absence of preincubation, dihydrosafrole was an effective competitive inhibitor of EROD in BNF-induced microsomes and in reconstituted systems with cytochrome P-450c. 4. Both ethoxyresorufin and benzo[a]pyrene inhibited the development of the type I optical difference spectrum of dihydrosafrole in reconstituted systems containing cytochrome P-450c. Inhibition by ethoxyresorufin was competitive while that caused by benzo[a]pyrene was noncompetitive in nature. 5. The type II ligand phenylimidazole was an effective noncompetitive inhibitor of EROD activity but failed to exert any inhibitory effect on cytochrome P-450c-mediated BP hydroxylase activity. Phenylimidazole inhibited formation of the dihydrosafrole type I optical difference spectrum non-competitively. 6. The results indicate that ethoxyresorufin and benzo[a]pyrene may occupy different binding sites on cytochrome P-450c and that dihydrosafrole binds primarily to the site utilized by ethoxyresorufin.
The metabolic sulfonation and side-chain oxidation of 3'-hydroxyisosafrole in the mouse and its inactivity as a hepatocarcinogen relative to 1'-hydroxysafrole.	The chemically synthesized sulfuric acid esters of 1'-hydroxysafrole and 3'-hydroxyisosafrole, 1'-sulfooxysafrole and 3'-sulfooxyisosafrole, respectively, are both strong electrophiles. Each ester reacted with deoxyguanosine (dGuo) in aqueous solution to form both safrol-1'-yl- and isosafrol-3'-yl-deoxyguanosine adducts. Both 1'-hydroxysafrole and 3'-hydroxyisosafrole were also formed from each ester in the presence of water. When either 1'-[3H]hydroxysafrole or 3'-[3H]hydroxyisosafrole was incubated with mouse liver cytosols fortified with 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS) and RNA, similar levels of RNA- and protein-bound adducts were formed; thus, the hepatic sulfotransferase activities for these two substrates appear to be similar. In contrast, the levels of hepatic nucleic acid and protein adducts formed after administration of 3'-[3H]hydroxyisosafrole to mice were only 2-4% and 8-14%, respectively, of those obtained after an equimolar dose of 1'-[3H]hydroxysafrole. Likewise, when 3'-hydroxyisosafrole was injected into 12-day-old male B6C3F1 mice at a level of 0.1 or 2.5 mumol/g body wt., the average numbers of hepatomas per mouse (0.2 and 0.4, respectively) were not significantly increased over the average number for mice treated only with the solvent (0.2). By contrast, mice that received 0.1 mumol of 1'-hydroxysafrole/g body wt. developed about 2 hepatomas per mouse. The metabolism of 3'-hydroxyisosafrole in the rat and mouse differed markedly from that of 1'-hydroxysafrole. 3'-Hydroxyisosafrole rapidly underwent side-chain oxidation to yield 3,4-methylenedioxycinnamic acid and 3,4-methylenedioxybenzoic acid. In the first 4 h, 3,4-methylenedioxybenzoyl glycine and 3,4-methylenedioxycinnamoyl glycine, the major urinary metabolites, together accounted for 39% and 63% of the dose administered to rats and mice, respectively. The glucuronide of 3'-hydroxyisosafrole was not detected in the urine, whereas urinary excretion of the glucuronide of 1'-hydroxysafrole at 2 h accounted for approx. 40% of a dose of 1'-hydroxysafrole.
