Yersinia enterocolitica serovar O:8 infection in breeding monkeys in Japan.	In the period from December 2002 to January 2003, 5 of 50 squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) housed at a Zoological Garden in the Kanto region of Japan died following a few days' history of diarrhea. After this outbreak had ended in the squirrel monkeys, 1 of 2 dark-handed gibbons (Hylobates agilis) died in April of 2003, showing similar clinical signs. We examined the organs of 3 of the dead squirrel monkeys and of the dark-handed gibbon, and Yersinia enterocolitica serovar O:8, which is the most pathogenic serovar of Y. enterocolitica, was isolated. In order to determine the source and the transmission route of infection, 98 fecal samples (45 from squirrel monkeys, 20 from other monkeys of 18 different species, and 33 from black rats captured around the monkey houses) and 7 water samples were collected in the Zoological Garden, and were examined for the prevalence of Y. enterocolitica serovar O:8. Serovar O:8 was isolated from 21 of 65 monkeys (32.3%) and 5 of 33 (15.2%) black rats (Rattus rattus). Furthermore, we examined the 30 isolates using molecular typing methods, pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), ribotyping using the RiboPrinter system, and restriction endonuclease analysis of virulence plasmid DNA (REAP), and compared the isolates in this outbreak with Japanese O:8 isolates previously identified. Genotyping showed that almost all the isolates were identical, and the genotype of the isolates was highly similar to that from wild rodents captured in Niigata Prefecture. This is the first report of fatal cases of Y. enterocolitica serovar O:8 infection in monkeys anywhere in the world.
Comparison of the primate alphaherpesviruses. I. Characterization of two herpesviruses from spider monkeys and squirrel monkeys and viral polypeptides synthesized in infected cells.	Biological and biochemical properties of two neurotropic herpesviruses of New World monkeys--Herpesvirus saimiri type 1 (HVS-1) and Herpesvirus ateles type 1 (HVA-1)--were examined and compared. HVS-1 and HVA-1 both exhibited a time course of replication similar to another primate herpesvirus, SA 8. Both viruses grew rapidly and high titers of infectious virus were readily produced. HVS-1 and HVA-1 were also able to replicate efficiently in cell lines derived from a number of primate and non-primate species. Analysis of proteins synthesized in infected cells revealed the presence of over 30 virus-specific proteins ranging from less than 30,000 to over 200,000 daltons apparent molecular weight. Both viruses specified synthesis of a major capsid polypeptide of 148,000 daltons. Pulse labeling of cells during infection demonstrated temporal differences in the kinetics of synthesis of individual viral proteins and post-translational modification of a number of viral polypeptides. Glycosylated polypeptides synthesized in HVS-1 and HVA-1 infected cells were identified which ranged from approximately 49,000 to 120,000 daltons. Structural polypeptides of HVA-1 and HVS-1 virions were identified by SDS-PAGE analysis of purified virions. Taken together with clinical data on the diseases caused by these viruses, these studies indicate that HVS-1 and HVA-1 appear similar in many respects to both the human herpes simplex viruses and alphaherpesviruses of other primates.
Squirrel monkey retrovirus: electron microscopy of a virus from New World monkeys and comparison with Mason-Pfizer monkey virus.	The ultrastructural morphogenesis of squirrel monkey retrovirus (SMRV) and Mason-Pfizer monkey virus (MPMV) growth in cell culture were compared. Both viruses develop by a process that begins with the formation of intracytoplasmic A particles which are then enveloped at the plasma membrane during budding. SMRV also develops as a crescent-shaped nucleoid beneath a bulging plasma membrane, a development characteristic of type C oncornaviruses. Free extra-cellular mature SMRV was generally round with a centrally located electron-dense nucleoid enclosed by the viral envelope. In contrast, mature MPMV had a tubular-shaped nucleoid. Negative stained preparations of both viruses yielded head-tail forms with surface projections. By uranyl acetate/critical point drying, SMRV particles were usually round with an eccentric electron-dense nucleoid enclosed by the viral envelope, whereas MPMV particles were round and contained an electron-dense bar-shaped nucleoid. These morphological observations indicate that SMRV more closely resembles MPMV, presently the only member of genus oncornavirus type D, than other retroviruses species. However, since SMRV can be morphologically, biochemically, and immunologically distinguished from MPMV, it represents a new species within genus oncornavirus type D.
