Synthesis and ligand exchange reactions of P2Pd(II) and P2Pt(II) salicylaldimates.	Reaction of (dppe)MCl(2)(dppe = 1,2-bis(diphenylphosphino)ethane) with 2-(N-phenyliminomethyl)phenol leads to air-stable (dppe)M(N,O) chelates (M = Pd, 1a; M = Pt, 1b). The N-4-methylphenyl derivative of 1a has been characterized by X-ray analysis. The N,O ligands are kinetically labile and exchange occurs in solution in the presence of other salicylaldimines. In the presence of anilines, a metal-mediated imine exchange process occurs. Hammett analysis reveals that the platinum complexes are sensitive to the electronics at N but not at O. Electron donating groups on the N-aryl ring stabilize the metal complex.
Heterocyclic isosters of antimycobacterial salicylanilides.	A series of 64 derivatives of substituted heterocyclic analogues of salicylanilides was synthesized. The compounds were evaluated for in vitro antimycobacterial activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Mycobacterium avium and two strains of Mycobacterium kansasii. For the QSAR study, the combination of Free-Wilson approach with Hansch approach was used. The molecules were separated on the heterocyclic and salicyl moieties and the study of influences of electronic and hydrophobic properties was used as well. The compounds are a new group of potential anti-tuberculotics.
Design, synthesis, and biological testing of thiosalicylamides as a novel class of calcium channel blockers.	The current research aimed to investigate the importance of the heterocyclic ring system in the structure of the cardiovascular drug diltiazem for its calcium channel blocking activity. The manuscript describes the design, synthesis, and biological testing of a total of 10 S-(p-methoxybenzyl), N-substituted thiosalicylamides as a series of non-cyclic compounds derived from diltiazem's structure. The new compounds maintained all diltiazem pharmacophores except the thiazepine ring system. In vitro evaluation of the new series for calcium channel blocking effects revealed moderate activities with IC50 values in the range of 4.8-56.0 microM. The data suggest that the ring system is not essential for activity; however, its absence leads to a considerable drop of activity relative to that of diltiazem (IC50=0.3 microM). Compounds of the current series showed optimum activity when the aliphatic alkyl chain on the salicylamide nitrogen is part of a piperidine or piperazine ring system substituted at the terminal nitrogen with a benzyl group.
Synthesis and preliminary pharmacological study of thiophene analogues of the antipyretic and analgesic agent ethenzamide.	A preliminary pharmacological study of a thiophene analogue 1b of the analgesic and antipyretic agent Ethenzamide and of a closely related compound 1a showed that a great similarity exists among Ethenzamide and the thiophenic compounds for analgesic, antipyretic, ulcerogenic, hypothermic, and sedative effects. However, the acute toxicity in mice for the thiophenic compounds is notably higher than that of Ethenzamide.
Potential antipsychotic agents. 9. Synthesis and stereoselective dopamine D-2 receptor blockade of a potent class of substituted (R)-N-[(1-benzyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl]benzamides. Relations to other side chain congeners.	A number of substituted N-[(1-benzyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl]benzamides and -salicylamides have been prepared and investigated as dopamine D-2 receptor antagonists in vitro and in vivo. The affinity was found to be confined to the R enantiomer, in contrast to the corresponding N-ethyl or N-allyl derivatives. The X-ray structure of one of the compounds (15) confirmed the R stereochemistry. This compound (15) was found to adopt a solid-state conformation in which the 4-fluorobenzyl group is folded over the salicylamide moiety. Benzamides having a 2,3-dimethoxy substitution pattern (24 and 26) or salicylamides with a 5,6-dimethoxy grouping (21 and 22) were especially potent, in that they inhibited [3H]spiperone binding to rat striatal dopamine D-2 receptors in vitro with IC50 values of about 1 nM. The new compounds' ability to block apomorphine-induced stereotypies correlated with the affinity for the [3H]spiperone binding site. Higher dose levels were necessary to induce catalepsy than to block the apomorphine-induced responses. The influence of the aromatic substituents on the potency of substituted benzamides with three types of side chains, i.e. (R)-(1-benzyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl, (S)-(1-ethyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl and 1-benzyl-4-piperidinyl, was compared. The 3-bromo-5,6-dimethoxysalicylamide substitution pattern was found to be the most general since it gave very potent compounds in all series. The substituted (R)-N-[(1-(4-fluoro-benzyl)-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl]benzamides (26) and -salicylamides (22) are suitable for development into 18F radioligands without altering the parent structure.
Synthesis of 5-chloro-3'-nitro-4'-substituted salicylanilides, a new series of anthelmintic and antimicrobial agents.	A number of 5-chloro-3'-nitro-4'-substituted salicylanilides (6--23) have been synthesized by treating 4',5-dichloro-3'-nitrosalicylanilide (5) with various sodium aryl oxides, alkoxides, or amines. These compounds have been tested against Hymenolepis nana infection in rats and have also been evaluated for their in vitro antimicrobial activity against various strains of bacteria and fungi. In the former test 17 was the most active cestodicidal agent showing activity at 30 mg/kg. In the antimicrobial screening, 22 inhibited the growth of all the bacteria and fungi used while 6 was active against the penicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus at a minimum inhibitory concentration of 0.00609 microgram/mL.
