The salivary gland epithelial cells of patients with primary Sjögren's syndrome manifest significantly reduced responsiveness to 17β-estradiol.	Several lines of evidence indicate that salivary gland epithelial cells (SGEC) play an important role in the pathogenesis of primary Sjogren's syndrome (SS). Normal SGEC have been shown to possess functional estrogen receptors, however, the estrogenic response of SGEC in patients with SS has not been previously assessed. To address this issue, we comparatively tested cultured non-neoplastic SGEC lines from SS patients (SS-SGEC, n = 8) and from disease controls (control-SGEC, n = 12) in a standard estrogenic inhibition assay of cytokine-induced adhesion molecule expression, where the modulation of the expression of constitutive and interferon-gamma (IFNγ)-induced CD54/ICAM.1 molecules following treatment with 17β-estradiol (E2) was evaluated by flow cytometry. Similarly high ICAM.1 expression was induced by IFNγ in control-SGEC and SS-SGEC lines. E2-treatment did not modify the constitutive ICAM.1 expression in either control-SGEC or SS-SGEC lines. In line with previous results, E2-pretreatment of control-SGEC was found to impede significantly the IFNγ-induced upregulation of ICAM.1 (p = 0.003). However, such inhibition was not observed in the SS-SGEC lines (p = 0.55). Such aberrant response of SS-SGEC to estrogens did not appear to associate with altered expression of estrogen receptor (ER) proteins, as no discernible differences could be revealed by immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry in the patterns or the intensity of ERα and ERβ (ERβ1- and ERβ2-isoforms) protein expression in SGEC lines or minor salivary gland tissues between SS patients and disease controls. The deficient estrogenic responsiveness of SS-SGEC likely represents a manifestation of the intrinsic epithelial activation that characterizes SS and possibly indicates the perturbation of the immunoregulatory potential of estrogens in SS-epithelia.
Cell culture and characterization of human minor salivary gland duct cells.	In order to facilitate studies on human salivary glands, a method was developed for the culture of minor salivary gland duct cells from tissues obtained from oral surgery protocols. Minor salivary glands were isolated from such tissues, and a serum-free growth medium was developed which supported the growth of the ductal component of these glands. The ductal origin of these cells was confirmed through immunohistochemical localization of replicating nuclei through incorporation of BrdU. The presence of epidermal keratin in replicating cells and the absence of smooth muscle myosin further substantiated the ductal origin of cells. Using normal growth medium calcium concentrations (1.05 mM), these cells produced a keratinized multilayer of cells unable to undergo routine subculture procedures. A reduction in calcium ion concentration to 0.1 mM resulted in a cell monolayer, without evidence of terminal keratinization, which could undergo at least eight serial passages (1:3 ratio) under cell culture conditions. It is advanced that these minor salivary gland duct cell cultures will be of use to those studying diseases and disorders of the salivary glands.
Lectin histochemical study of bovine lingual glands.	Bovine lingual glands consist of mucous acini capped by demilunes. Information on the chemical structure of their secretory glycoconjugates was obtained by means of a battery of peroxidase-conjugated lectins with affinity for specific terminal sugars. Sialidase procedures followed by lectin staining were also used to visualize the sugar sequences. Stored secretions in mucous acinar cells contained fucose, N-acetylglucosamine, alpha and beta-N-acetylgalactosamine as terminal sugar residues and beta-galactose as penultimate sugar in a heterogeneous distribution. Demilunar cells failed to react with any of the lectins examined except that of Dolichos biflorus.
