Protein kinase C delta is essential for etoposide-induced apoptosis in salivary gland acinar cells.	We have previously shown that parotid C5 salivary acinar cells undergo apoptosis in response to etoposide treatment as indicated by alterations in cell morphology, caspase-3 activation, DNA fragmentation, sustained activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase, and inactivation of extracellular regulated kinases 1 and 2. Here we report that apoptosis results in the caspase-dependent cleavage of protein kinase C-delta (PKCdelta) to a 40-kDa fragment, the appearance of which correlates with a 9-fold increase in PKCdelta activity. To understand the function of activated PKCdelta in apoptosis, we have used the PKCdelta-specific inhibitor, rottlerin. Pretreatment of parotid C5 cells with rottlerin prior to the addition of etoposide blocks the appearance of the apoptotic morphology, the sustained activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase, and inactivation of extracellular regulated kinases 1 and 2. Inhibition of PKCdelta also partially inhibits caspase-3 activation and DNA fragmentation. Immunoblot analysis shows that the PKCdelta cleavage product does not accumulate in parotid C5 cells treated with rottlerin and etoposide together, suggesting that the catalytic activity of PKCdelta may be required for cleavage. PKCalpha and PKCbeta1 activities also increase during etoposide-induced apoptosis. Inhibition of these two isoforms with Gö6976 slightly suppresses the apoptotic morphology, caspase-3 activation, and DNA fragmentation, but has no effect on the sustained activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase or inactivation of extracellular regulated kinase 1 and 2. These data demonstrate that activation of PKCdelta is an integral and essential part of the apoptotic program in parotid C5 cells and that specific activated isoforms of PKC may have distinct functions in cell death.
Purines, a new class of agonists in salivary glands?	The response of rat submandibular glands to extracellular purines was tested. In crude cellular suspensions, ATP increased the [Ca2+]i mostly by promoting uptake of extracellular calcium. ATP caused the pHi to drop, a response blocked by chloride channel inhibitors. ATP also inhibited the basal and isoproterenol-stimulated activity of the Na+ -K+ -2Cl-cotransporter. These effects were reproduced by benzoyl-ATP, an agonist of ionotropic purinoceptors. In pure ductal suspensions, ATP activated a metabotropic P2Y1 purinergic receptor coupled to phospholipase C and opened a non-specific cation channel coupled to a P2X7 receptor. Activation of these receptors stimulated a Ca2+ -dependent and a Ca2+ -independent phospholipase A2, the latter resulting in kallikrein secretion. We conclude that purinergic agonists can modulate the activity of both acinar and ductal phases of secretion. Activation of metabotropic receptors coupled to phospholipase C could lead to responses resembling those to muscarinic or adrenergic agonists. Activation of ionotropic receptors could stimulate new intracellular responses also involved in secretory function.
Aquaporin-5 dependent fluid secretion in airway submucosal glands.	Fluid and macromolecule secretion by submucosal glands in mammalian airways is believed to play an important role in airway defense and surface liquid homeostasis and in the pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis. Immunocytochemistry revealed strong expression of aquaporin water channel AQP5 at the luminal membrane of serous epithelial cells in submucosal glands throughout the mouse nasopharynx and upper airways and AQP4 at the contralateral basolateral membrane in some glands. Novel methods were applied to measure secretion rates and composition of gland fluid in wild type mice and knockout mice lacking AQP4 or AQP5. In mice breathing through a tracheotomy, total gland fluid output was measured from the dilution of a volume marker present in the fluid-filled nasopharynx and upper trachea. Pilocarpine-stimulated fluid secretion was 4.3 +/- 0.4 microl/min in wild type mice, 4.9 +/- 0.9 microl/min in AQP4 null mice, and 1.9 +/- 0.3 microl/min in AQP5 null mice (p < 0.001). Similar results were obtained when secreted fluid was collected in the oil-filled nasopharyngeal cavity. Real-time video imaging of fluid droplets secreted from individual submucosal glands near the larynx in living mice showed a 57 +/- 4% reduced fluid secretion rate in AQP5 null mice. Analysis of secreted fluid showed a 2.3 +/- 0.2-fold increase in total protein in AQP5 null mice and a smaller increase in [Cl(-)], suggesting intact protein and salt secretion across a relatively water impermeable epithelial barrier. Submucosal gland morphology and density did not differ significantly in wild type versus AQP5 null mice. These results indicate that AQP5 facilitates fluid secretion in submucosal glands and that the luminal membrane of gland epithelial cells is the rate-limiting barrier to water movement. Modulation of gland AQP5 expression or function might provide a novel approach to treat hyperviscous gland secretions in cystic fibrosis and excessive fluid secretions in infectious or allergic bronchitis/rhinitis.
Alcohol-related diseases of the mouth and throat.	Chronic consumption of alcoholic beverages is an accepted social custom worldwide. In the upper aerodigestive tract, local morphological, metabolic and functional alterations can be present as a result of alcohol consumption. A clinical link between the chronic consumption of alcohol and head and neck cancer has been observed for decades. While alcohol was described initially as a risk enhancer only in smokers, a number of epidemiological studies have now provided sufficient evidence that chronic alcohol consumption increases the risk of head and neck cancer independent of exposure to tobacco smoke. Systemic effects of alcohol interact with local changes in the morphology and function of the salivary glands. In addition, alcohol leads to the accumulation of pathological microbes within the mucosa, leading to chronic infection. Susceptibility to carcinogens and cell proliferation in the mucosa are increased, resulting in genetic changes with the development of dysplasia, leucoplakia and carcinoma. Chronic alcohol consumption has been correlated with an increased risk of cancer and increased mortality in a dose-effect relationship. A number of biologically plausible mechanisms exist by which alcohol may cause cancer. These mechanisms are discussed in this chapter.
Four days of citalopram increase suppression of cortisol secretion by prednisolone in healthy volunteers.	Chronic antidepressant treatment increases glucocorticoid-mediated negative feedback on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, and thus reduces HPA axis activity, in depressed patients and healthy controls. In contrast, acute antidepressant treatment induces an activation of basal HPA axis activity.
Experimental assessment of biological compatibility of gold alloys by functional indices of salivary glands.	The effect of implanted gold alloys on composition and rate of excretion of oral fluid was studied on rats. It was found that gold alloy 900 modifies the function of the major salivary glands.
Histopathologic changes in dental and oral soft tissues in 2-butoxyethanol-induced hemolysis and thrombosis in rats*.	2-Butoxyethanol (2-BE; ethylene glycol monobutyl ether) is extensively used as a solvent in surface coatings, such as lacquers, enamels, and varnishes in industrial and household cleaning products. Its major toxicity is manifested in the circulation, as it induces hemolytic anemia and thrombosis in various organs. While 2-BE has been implicated in the induction of anemia in different species, the rat has proven most sensitive, especially the female of this species. The purpose of this study was to document the effects of 2-BE on dentition, the periodontal ligament, the tongue, the salivary glands, and the oral mucosa in male and female Fischer 344 rats.
Salivary secretion assay for drug efficacy for cystic fibrosis in mice.	Computerized assays on cultured cells ex vivo have been used to screen thousands of compounds for their effectiveness in correcting the basic physiological defect in cystic fibrosis (CF). While a number of these compounds appear promising, their effectiveness will almost certainly need to be demonstrated in animals before therapeutic tests in humans will be possible. We show herein that the function of salivary secretion in the mouse model for CF could be used as a simple, easy and rapid in vivo assay for drug effects. We demonstrate that salivary secretory capacity stimulated with a beta-adrenergic agonist closely reflects the genotype of origin. Specifically, the mean maximal secretory rate of saliva in normal wild type (+/+) mice was about 1.5 times higher than that of the mean rate in heterozygote (+/-) mice and more than 50 times greater than in CF (-/-) mice. Total saliva secreted per stimulated period obeyed a similar phenotype-genotype segregation. The data indicate that salivary secretory rates in CF mice could be used to assay potential drugs for their effectiveness in correcting the secretory defect in cystic fibrosis.
Expression of aquaporin-5 in and fluid secretion from immortalized human salivary gland ductal cells by treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine: a possibility for improvement of xerostomia in patients with Sjögren's syndrome.	The aim of the present study was to investigate the possibility that ductal cells, which preferentially survive and/or proliferate in Sjögren's syndrome (SS) salivary glands of patients with SS, could acquire the functional expression of membrane water channel aquaporin-5 (AQP5). Thus, in this study, we demonstrate that an immortalized normal human salivary gland ductal cell (NS-SV-DC) line, lacking the expression of AQP5, acquires AQP5 gene expression in response to treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-CdR), a DNA demethylating agent. Confocal microscopic analysis revealed the localization of AQP5 expression mainly at the apical and lateral sides of the plasma membrane. The expressed AQP5 protein was functionally active because AQP5 expression resulted in a significant increase in the osmotically directed net fluid rate across monolayers of NS-SV-DC cells. By the analysis of bisulfite sequencing of CpG islands in the AQP5 promoter, hypermethylation within the consensus Sp1-binding sites was commonly observed in parental cell clones, whereas demethylation at the CGs, one in the second consensus Sp1 element and the other outside of the third consensus Sp1 element in the AQP5 promoter, was detected in NS-SV-DC cells after treatment with 5-Aza-CdR. By analyzing the luciferase activity of transfected AQP5 promoter vectors, it became evident that demethylation at the CGs cooperatively functions between these two sites to induce AQP5 expression. Our data, therefore, suggest that treatment of ductal cells with 5-Aza-CdR could result in the expression of the AQP5 gene, thereby leading to increased fluid secretion from ductal cells in SS salivary glands.
Leukotriene B4 protects latently infected mice against murine cytomegalovirus reactivation following allogeneic transplantation.	Human CMV is often associated with transplant rejection and opportunistic infections such as pneumonia in immunosuppressed patients. Current anti-CMV therapies, although effective, show relatively high toxicity, which seriously limits their long-term use. In this study, we provide evidence that leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)) plays an important role in the fight against murine CMV (MCMV) infection in vivo. Intravenous administration of 50 and 500 ng/kg/day of LTB(4) to mice infected with a lethal dose of MCMV significantly increases their survival (50 and 70%, respectively), compared with the placebo-treated group (10% of survival). In mice infected with a sublethal dose of MCMV and treated daily with 50 ng/kg/day of LTB(4), the salivary gland viral loads were found to be reduced by 66% compared with the control group. Furthermore, using an allogeneic bone marrow transplantation mouse model, the frequency of MCMV reactivation from latently infected mice was much lower (38%) in LTB(4) (500 ng/kg)-treated mice than in the placebo-treated group (78%). Finally, in experiments using 5-lipoxygenase-deficient mice, MCMV viral loads in salivary glands were found to be higher in animals unable to produce leukotrienes than in the control groups, supporting a role of endogenous 5-lipoxygenase products, possibly LTB(4), in host defense against CMV infection.
Health benefits of saliva: a review.	The aim is to present a review of the literature on human saliva composition, flow rates and some of the health benefits of saliva, with emphasis on studies from our laboratory that have looked at effects of age and age-related diseases on saliva output and composition.
The effect of pirenzepine on gastric emptying and salivary flow rate: constraints on the use of saliva paracetamol concentrations for the determination of paracetamol pharmacokinetics.	1. The effects of pirenzepine on gastric emptying, salivary flow and saliva paracetamol concentrations were investigated in healthy volunteers. 2. Pirenzepine significantly reduced the area under the saliva flow-time curves (7.29 +/- 3.30 g min-1 h without pirenzepine; 4.19 +/- 2.59 g min-1 h with pirenzepine, P less than 0.01). Pirenzepine had no significant effect on plasma paracetamol Cmax (17.5 +/- 7.8 micrograms ml-1 without pirenzepine; 12.6 +/- 7.7 micrograms ml-1 with pirenzepine), plasma tmax (0.2 h (0.2-0.8 h) without pirenzepine; (0.2 h 0.2-0.8 h) with pirenzepine) and plasma AUC(0.6 h) (32.3 +/- 7.2 micrograms ml-1 h without pirenzepine; 30.3 +/- 6.5 micrograms ml-1 h with pirenzepine). 3. Mean ratios of saliva:plasma paracetamol AUC (1.06 +/- 0.24 without pirenzepine; 1.84 +/- 0.48 with pirenzepine, P less than 0.001) and saliva:plasma paracetamol Cmax (1.7 +/- 1.0 without pirenzepine; 6.5 +/- 2.7 with pirenzepine, P less than 0.01) were significantly increased by pirenzepine pretreatment, but there was a poor correlation between the percentage change in the area under the saliva flow-time curve and the percentage change in saliva paracetamol AUC (r = 0.47, P = 0.21). 4. The findings suggest that a) pirenzepine is a more selective antagonist of the muscarinic receptors in salivary glands than those in gastric smooth muscle and b) caution is required when using saliva paracetamol concentrations to determine the pharmacokinetics of the drug in the presence of other agents which may influence salivary flow rate.
The extracellular zinc-sensing receptor mediates intercellular communication by inducing ATP release.	Taste and salivary secretion disorders have been linked to zinc deficiency, indeed zinc is found in secretory granules in the salivary gland. The signaling role for the zinc release in this tissue, however, is poorly understood. Here, we address the signaling pathways and physiological role of the zinc-sensing receptor, ZnR, in the ductal salivary gland cell line, HSY. Exposure of these cells to zinc triggered intracellular Ca2+ release from thapsigargin-sensitive stores. The G alpha q inhibitor, YM-254890 (1 microM), eliminated the Zn2+-dependent Ca2+ response, demonstrating that ZnR is a G alpha q-coupled receptor. Dose-response curves yielded an apparent K0.5 of 36 microM and a Hill coefficient of 7 in the absence of extracellular Ca2+, and K0.5 of 55 microM with a Hill coefficient of 3 in its presence. This indicates that although Zn2+ is essential for ZnR activation, Ca2+ may affect the receptor co-operativity. The homologous desensitization pattern of ZnR was characterized by pre-exposure of cells to Zn2+ at concentrations found to activate the receptor. Re-exposure of cells to Zn2+ elicited an attenuated Zn2+-dependent Ca2+ response for at least 3 h, indicating that the ZnR is strongly desensitized by Zn2+. Finally, we studied the paracrine affects of ZnR using a co-culture consisting of the HSY cells and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). While no Zn2+-dependent Ca2+ release was observed in VSMC alone, application of Zn2+ to the co-culture induced a Ca2+ rise in both HSY cells and VSMC. This Ca2+ rise was inhibited by the ATP scavenger, apyrase. Taken together, our results demonstrate that ZnR activity is monitored in salivary cells and is modulated by extracellular Ca2+. We further show that ZnR enhances secretion of ATP, thereby linking zinc to key signaling pathways involved in modification of salivary secretions by the ductal cells.
Age-related vulnerability.	This presentation considers the vulnerability of the upper alimentary and respiratory tracts to environmental insults during aging. A specific example, salivary gland secretion, is discussed. Available data suggest that while aging per se does not affect salivary performance adversely, it does appear to compromise the glands in such a way that older persons are more vulnerable to exogenous factors that can reduce secretory capacity and, consequently, diminish oropharyngeal health.
Ivermectin is not an agonist at a GABA receptor in tick salivary glands.	The avermectins, broad-spectrum anti-parasitic agents which are effective against ticks, act principally by stimulating gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors directly or indirectly. GABA is known to potentiate dopamine-induced fluid secretion in the salivary glands of female ixodid ticks. We thus tested whether 10 microM ivermectin would have an effect similar to GABA in the isolated salivary gland preparation of Dermacentor andersoni. Ivermectin was not an agonist at this GABA receptor.
Green tea polyphenols reduce autoimmune symptoms in a murine model for human Sjogren's syndrome and protect human salivary acinar cells from TNF-alpha-induced cytotoxicity.	Sjogren's syndrome (SS) is a relatively common autoimmune disorder. A key feature of SS is lymphocytic infiltration of the salivary and lacrimal glands, associated with the destruction of secretory functions of these glands. Current treatment of SS targets the symptoms but is unable to reduce or prevent the damage to the glands. We reported previously that the major green tea polyphenol (GTP) epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) inhibits autoantigen expression in normal human keratinocytes and immortalized normal human salivary acinar cells (Hsu et al. 2005). However, it is not known whether GTPs have this effect in vivo, if they can reduce lymphocytic infiltration, or protect salivary acinar cells from tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)-induced cytotoxicity. Here, we demonstrate that in the NOD mouse, a model for human SS, oral administration of green tea extract reduced the serum total autoantibody levels and the autoimmune-induced lymphocytic infiltration of the submandibular glands. Further, we show that EGCG protected normal human salivary acinar cells from TNF-alpha-induced cytotoxicity. This protection was associated with specific phosphorylation of p38 MAPK, and inhibitors of the p38 MAPK pathway blocked the protective effect. In conclusion, GTPs may provide a degree of protection against autoimmune-induced tissue damage in SS, mediated in part through activation of MAPK elements.
A standardised mini pig model for in vivo investigations of anticholinergic effects on bladder function and salivation.	The objective was to validate an in vivo model for evaluation of pharmacological effects on bladder function taking the most predominant anticholinergic side effect (hyposalivation) into account. Therefore, two anticholinergic properties (propiverine hydrochloride and tolterodine-L(+)-tartrate) were used to test the in vivo model. Sacral anterior root stimulation (SARS) was performed to induce reproducible and standardized bladder contractions. To evaluate hyposalivation standardised salivavary flow measurements by stimulating the lingual nerve was performed in addition to SARS.
Further investigations on the action of ecdysteroids on the salivary glands of the female tick Amblyomma americanum.	Two phytecdysteroids (abutasterone, makisterone A) and five synthetic ecdysteroid analogues, all at 1 microgram/ml, were tested on salivary glands from the female tick, Amblyomma americanum L. (Acari:Ixodidae), held in organ culture for four days. All of these substances caused a significant reduction in fluid secretory competence of salivary glands in vitro. This constitutes further evidence that the structural requirements for causing salivary-gland degeneration in ticks are similar to those generally required for ecdysteroid activity in other arthropods. Although vertebrate steroids are known to augment fluid secretory competence by salivary glands in organ culture, beta-estradiol was not able to attenuate the degenerating effect of 20-hydroxyecdysone, supporting the suggestion that ecdysteroids and vertebrate steroids have distinct sites/mechanisms of action on this tissue.
Degree of modification of Ro60 by the lipid peroxidation by-product 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal may differentially induce Sjögren syndrome or systemic lupus erythematosus in BALB/c mice.	Our previous work showed that immunization of rabbits with 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified Ro60 (HNE-Ro60) accelerates autoimmunity. We extended this model into mice, hypothesizing that the severity of autoimmunity would be dependent on the degree of HNE modification of Ro60. Five groups of BALB/c mice (10/group) were used. Group I was immunized with Ro60. Groups II to IV were immunized with Ro60 modified with 0.4 mM (low), 2 mM (medium), and 10 mM (high) HNE, respectively. Group V controls received Freund's adjuvant. A rapid abrogation of tolerance to Ro60/La antigens occurred in mice immunized with HNE-modified Ro60, especially in the low and medium HNE-Ro60 groups. Lymphocytic infiltration and significantly high decrement in salivary flow (37%) compared to controls was observed only in the high HNE-Ro60 group, suggesting induction of a Sjögren syndrome-like condition in this group. Anti-dsDNA occurred only in mice immunized with medium HNE-Ro60. This group did not have a significant decrement in salivary flow, suggesting induction of a systemic lupus erythematosus-like manifestation in this group. Significantly high antibodies to Ro60 were found in saliva of mice in the low and medium HNE-Ro60 and the Ro60 groups, as well as anti-HNE Ro60 in the low and medium HNE-Ro60 groups. Understanding the mechanism of this differential induction may help discriminate between these two autoimmune diseases.
Morphological and functional state of major salivary glands under conditions of aluminum chloride excess in drinking water.	Morphology and function of the major salivary glands were studied in 50 albino rats drinking water supplemented with aluminum chloride for 2 weeks. Against the background of normal gland appearance, the salivation function and the composition of the saliva were changed: the concentrations of sodium and calcium ions and α-amylase activity were reduced. In parallel, cholesterol content was increased by 54%.
Drooling in neuropediatric patients]	Drooling is defined as an anterior salivary flow which can be insufficiently controlled due to dysphagia und orofacial motoric deficits. It leads to moistened lips, chin, hands and surrounding in diverse extent. Drooling can severely interfere social contacts and requires more nursing facilities. A multidisciplinary approach in diagnostics and therapy is essential. Key points are the evaluation of inhibited swallowing and of orofacial motoric deficits. In the therapy of drooling, scopolamine patches and oral stimulation plates are useful but within the last few years, the injection of botulinum toxin into the salivary glands produced positive effects, as this therapy is an effective, well tolerated and safe option in these children. Surgical corrections of the salivary glands are more and more reserved for isolated cases.
Effect of lithium on secretory factors and growth stimulation by bombesin in rat pancreas and salivary glands.	Lithium, a drug of choice in bipolar affective disorders, also affects the metabolism and cell proliferation in a diverse array of organisms. In this study, we investigated the effect of lithium on bombesin-mediated function in excretion and growth of the pancreas and the salivary glands. The weight, protein content, amylase concentration and salivary flow rate of the pancreas, parotid and the submandibular glands were determined in male Wistar rats after consumption of either water or lithium chloride (600 mg/l) for 14 days and each group received s.c. injection of either saline or bombesin (10 microg/kg) during the last 4 days of experiment. Our results revealed that administration of bombesin in lithium-treated group not only suppressed pancreas and parotid weight augmentation due to bombesin, but also significantly decreased pancreas growth. Chronic lithium consumption significantly inhibited the protein content augmentation due to bombesin in the salivary glands. Getting bombesin, as well as saline in lithium-treated group, resulted in notable decrease in salivary protein content. Protein content of pancreatic gland increased considerably in the bombesin-injected groups either treated with saline or lithium. In conclusion, the stimulatory effect of bombesin on the growth and protein content of the pancreas and the salivary gland was inhibited by lithium. Lithium seems to be a potent inhibitor of growth factors induced by bombesin probably through inhibiting phosphatidylinositol 4,5,bisphosphate hydrolysis.
Muscarinic type 3 receptor induces cytoprotective signaling in salivary gland cells through epidermal growth factor receptor transactivation.	Muscarinic type 3 receptor (M3R) plays a pivotal role in the induction of glandular fluid secretions. Although M3R is often the target of autoantibodies in Sjögren's syndrome (SjS), chemical agonists for M3R are clinically used to stimulate saliva secretion in patients with SjS. Aside from its activity in promoting glandular fluid secretion, however, it is unclear whether activation of M3R is related to other biological events in SjS. This study aimed to investigate the cytoprotective effect of chemical agonist-mediated M3R activation on apoptosis induced in human salivary gland (HSG) cells. Carbachol (CCh), a muscarinic receptor-specific agonist, abrogated tumor necrosis factor α/interferon γ-induced apoptosis through pathways involving caspase 3/7, but its cytoprotective effect was decreased by a M3R antagonist, a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) inhibitor, a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt inhibitor, or an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor. Ligation of M3R with CCh transactivated EGFR and phosphorylated ERK and Akt, the downstream targets of EGFR. Inhibition of intracellular calcium release or protein kinase C δ, both of which are involved in the cell signaling of M3R-mediated fluid secretion, did not affect CCh-induced ERK or Akt phosphorylation. CCh stimulated Src phosphorylation and binding to EGFR. A Src inhibitor attenuated the CCh/M3R-induced cytoprotective effect and EGFR transactivation cascades. Overall, these results indicated that CCh/M3R induced transactivation of EGFR through Src activation leading to ERK and Akt phosphorylation, which in turn suppressed caspase 3/7-mediated apoptotic signals in HSG cells. This study, for the first time, proposes that CCh-mediated M3R activation can promote not only fluid secretion but also survival of salivary gland cells in the inflammatory context of SjS.
Hypoglycemic effects of an aqueous extract of Bauhinia forficata on the salivary glands of diabetic mice.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the salivary glands in diabetic mice, analyzing alterations in the secretory epithelium and interactions with the stromal compartment acquired during a prolonged period of treatment with Bauhinia forficata extract. Female mice were divided into two groups: Nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice treated with Bauhinia forficata (I), and NOD mice not treated with the hypoglycemic agent (II). After treatment, the salivary glands were collected for analysis by transmitted and polarized light microscopy, complemented by three-dimensional analysis of these tissues. The results showed weight loss in animals of group II and weight recovery in treated animals. Glucose levels were elevated in group II, but declined in group I. In the two groups, the salivary glands were characterized by involution of the secretory epithelium, presence of an inflammatory infiltrate and an increase of extracellular fibrillar components. It can be concluded that treatment with Bauhinia forficata reduced glucose levels and contributed to weight recovery in treated animals. However, the observation of tissue destructuring and compromised epithelial-stromal interactions, with consequent impairment of glandular function, demonstrates that Bauhinia forficata exerts an effect on the recovery of body metabolism but this improvement does not influence in the tissue recovery.
Baroreceptor-mediated activation of sympathetic nerve activity to salivary glands.	Salivary gland function is regulated by both the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems. Previously we showed that the basal sympathetic outflow to the salivary glands (SNA(SG)) was higher in hypertensive compared to normotensive rats and that diabetes reduced SNA(SG) discharge at both strains. In the present study we sought to investigate how SNA(SG) might be modulated by acute changes in the arterial pressure and whether baroreceptors play a functional role upon this modulation. To this end, we measured blood pressure and SNA(SG) discharge in Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY-intact) and in WKY submitted to sinoaortic denervation (WKY-SAD). We made the following three major observations: (i) in WKY-intact rats, baroreceptor loading in response to intravenous infusion of the phenylephrine evoked an increase in SNA(SG) spike frequency (81%, p<0.01) accompanying the increase mean arterial pressure (ΔMAP: +77 ± 14 mmHg); (ii) baroreceptor unloading with sodium nitroprusside infusion elicited a decrease in SNA(SG) spike frequency (17%, p<0.01) in parallel with the fall in arterial blood pressure (ΔMAP: -30 ± 3 mmHg) in WKY-intact rats; iii) in the WKY-SAD rats, phenylephrine-evoked rises in the arterial pressure (ΔMAP: +56 ± 6 mmHg) failed to produce significant changes in the SNA(SG) spike frequency. Taken together, these data show that SNA(SG) increases in parallel with pharmacological-induced pressor response in a baroreceptor dependent way in anaesthetised rats. Considering the key role of SNA(SG) in salivary secretion, this mechanism, which differs from the classic cardiac baroreflex feedback loop, strongly suggests that baroreceptor signalling plays a decisive role in the regulation of salivary gland function.
Botulinum toxin A for oral cavity cancer patients: in microsurgical patients BTX injections in major salivary glands temporarily reduce salivary production and the risk of local complications related to saliva stagnation.	In patients suffering from oral cavity cancer surgical treatment is complex because it is necessary to remove carcinoma and lymph node metastasis (through a radical unilateral or bilateral neck dissection) and to reconstruct the affected area by means of free flaps. The saliva stagnation in the post-operative period is a risk factor with regard to local complications. Minor complications related to saliva stagnation (such as tissue maceration and wound dehiscence) could become major complications compromising the surgery or the reconstructive outcome. In fact the formation of oro-cutaneous fistula may cause infection, failure of the free flap, or the patient&#8217;s death with carotid blow-out syndrome. Botulinum injections in the major salivary glands, four days before surgery, temporarily reduces salivation during the healing stage and thus could reduce the incidence of  saliva-related complications. Forty three patients with oral cancer were treated with botulinum toxin A. The saliva quantitative measurement and the sialoscintigraphy were performed before and after infiltrations of botulinum toxin in the major salivary glands. In all cases there was a considerable, but temporary, reduction of salivary secretion. A lower rate of local complications was observed in the post-operative period. The salivary production returned to normal within two months, with minimal side effects and discomfort for the patients. The temporary inhibition of salivary secretion in the  post-operative period could enable a reduction in saliva-related local complications, in the incidence of oro-cutaneous fistulas, and improve the outcome of the surgery as well as the quality of residual life in these patients.
Protection of radiation-induced damage to the hematopoietic system, small intestine and salivary glands in rats by JNJ7777120 compound, a histamine H4 ligand.	Based on previous data on the histamine radioprotective effect on highly radiosensitive tissues, in the present work we aimed at investigating the radioprotective potential of the H4R ligand, JNJ7777120, on ionizing radiation-induced injury and genotoxic damage in small intestine, salivary glands and hematopoietic tissue. For that purpose, rats were divided into 4 groups. JNJ7777120 and JNJ7777120-irradiated groups received a daily subcutaneous JNJ7777120 injection (10 mg/kg) starting 24 h before irradiation. Irradiated groups received a single dose of 5 Gy on whole-body using Cesium-137 source and were sacrificed 3 or 30 days after irradiation. Tissues were removed, fixed, stained with hematoxylin and eosin or PAS staining and histological characteristics were evaluated. Proliferative and apoptotic markers were studied by immunohistochemistry, while micronucleus assay was performed to evaluate DNA damage. Submandibular gland (SMG) function was evaluated by methacholine-induced salivation. Results indicate that JNJ7777120 treatment diminished mucosal atrophy and preserved villi and the number of crypts after radiation exposure (240±8 vs. 165±10, P<0.01). This effect was associated to a reduced apoptosis and DNA damage in intestinal crypts. JNJ7777120 reduced radiation-induced aplasia, preserving medullar components and reducing formation of micronucleus and also it accelerated bone marrow repopulation. Furthermore, it reduced micronucleus frequency in peripheral blood (27±8 vs. 149±22, in 1,000 erythrocytes, P<0.01). JNJ7777120 completely reversed radiation-induced reduced salivation, conserving glandular mass with normal histological appearance and reducing apoptosis and atrophy of SMG. JNJ7777120 exhibits radioprotective effects against radiation-induced cytotoxic and genotoxic damages in small intestine, SMG and hematopoietic tissues and, thus, could be of clinical value for patients undergoing radiotherapy. 
Substance K and salivary secretion in the rat.	Intravenous injections of substance K (SK), a novel member of the family of tachykinins, evoked secretion from the three major salivary glands of the rat in the presence of muscarinic, alpha-adrenergic and beta-adrenergic receptor blockade; the submaxillary glands contributed most and the sublingual glands least to the total volume secreted. SK was less potent than substance P (SP) in evoking fluid and amylase secretion. However, the amylase concentration in parotid saliva evoked by SK was twice that evoked by SP, a finding which indicates that in the glands there are more than just one type of tachykinin receptors. Vasoactive intestinal peptide enhanced the SK evoked fluid response and increased the amylase concentration in parotid saliva. SK is a possible transmitter involved in the atropine-resistant parasympathetic nerve evoked salivation in the rat.
The role of lipolysis in human orosensory fat perception.	Taste perception elicited by food constituents and facilitated by sensory cells in the oral cavity is important for the survival of organisms. In addition to the five basic taste modalities, sweet, umami, bitter, sour, and salty, orosensory perception of stimuli such as fat constituents is intensely investigated. Experiments in rodents and humans suggest that free fatty acids represent a major stimulus for the perception of fat-containing food. However, the lipid fraction of foods mainly consists of triglycerides in which fatty acids are esterified with glycerol. Whereas effective lipolysis by secreted lipases (LIPs) liberating fatty acids from triglycerides in the rodent oral cavity is well established, a similar mechanism in humans is disputed. By psychophysical analyses of humans, we demonstrate responses upon stimulation with triglycerides which are attenuated by concomitant LIP inhibitor administration. Moreover, lipolytic activities detected in minor salivary gland secretions directly supplying gustatory papillae were correlated to individual sensitivities for triglycerides, suggesting that differential LIP levels may contribute to variant fat perception. Intriguingly, we found that the LIPF gene coding for lingual/gastric LIP is not expressed in human lingual tissue. Instead, we identified the expression of other LIPs, which may compensate for the absence of LIPF.
Alum, an aluminum-based adjuvant, induces Sjögren's syndrome-like disorder in mice.	Adjuvant-induced innate immune responses have been suspected to play a role in the initiation of certain autoimmune disorders. This study investigates the role of alum, an aluminum-based adjuvant in the induction of Sjögren's syndrome-like disorder in mice.
The affinity, selectivity and biological activity of telenzepine enantiomers.	The binding of the enantiomers of telenzepine to muscarinic receptor subtypes present in guinea-pig cerebral cortex, myocardium and salivary glands has been examined. The (+) enantiomer is more potent in all assays and exhibits a greater selectivity than the (-) enantiomer for the different receptor subtypes. As a consequence, the enantiomeric potency ratio varies from ca. 400 (cortical 'M1' receptors) to ca. 50 (cardiac receptors). In functional assays in vitro in the rabbit vas deferens and rat atria, the affinity constants and enantiomeric potency ratios for the two isomers agree with those found for the appropriate muscarinic receptor subtype in binding assays. A high enantiomeric potency ratio, 180, is found in vivo for the ability of the telenzepine enantiomers to inhibit the production of lesions in the modified Shay rat preparation. The data are compatible with the blockade of M1 receptors by (+)-telenzepine being responsible for this action of telenzepine and would tend to exclude the possibility that the anti-ulcer action of telenzepine is mediated via a muscarinic or non-muscarinic action of the (-) enantiomer.
Distribution of substance P and methionine-enkephalin in salivary glands and effect of chronic morphine treatment on levels of these peptides.	Substance P-like immunoreactivity (SPLI) and methionine-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity (MELI) were determined in salivary glands from rats by radioimmunoassay. In all salivary glands investigated (submandibular gland, sublingual gland and parotid gland), SPLI and MELI were detected. The amount of both peptides is comparable to or relatively higher than those found in any other peripheral tissue. The level of SPLI showed a tendency to increase following chronic treatment with morphine: the enhancement in the submandibular gland and the sublingual gland was especially remarkable. The level of MELI was decreased, particularly in the submandibular gland.
Differences in the temperature dependence of drug interaction with the noradrenaline and serotonin transporters.	High affinity, sodium-dependent binding of [3H]mazindol is associated with the noradrenergic transporter while the binding of [3H]imipramine and [3H]paroxetine are associated with the serotonin transporter, e.g. in human platelets. In general radioligand binding studies to the monoamine transporters are performed at a temperature different from the physiological temperature (37 degrees C) at which uptake occurs. Previously reported data show a temperature dependence for tricyclic but not for nontricyclic inhibitors of the uptake of serotonin in their interaction with radioligand binding to the serotonin transporter. In the present study, both tricyclic and nontricyclic inhibitors of the uptake of noradrenaline were shown to have equal affinity for the binding of [3H]mazindol to the noradrenergic transporter at 0 degrees and 25 degrees C. Moreover, whereas serotonin transporter substrates inhibit the binding of [3H]imipramine/paroxetine in human platelets in an essentially temperature-independent manner (0-37 degrees C), noradrenaline transporter substrates are of higher affinity in inhibiting the binding of [3H]mazindol at 0 degrees C than at 25 degrees C. At 0 degrees C, substrate affinity for inhibition of the binding of [3H]mazindol to the noradrenaline transporter in the salivary gland of the rat approximates to the substrate affinity for transport by the noradrenaline carrier. The present data point to significant differences in the interaction of both substrates and inhibitors with the noradrenergic and serotonergic transporters, as studied using the radioligand binding. Thus, the pharmacological profile of the serotonin transporter, in terms of substrate and inhibitor affinity, is best studied using radioligand binding at 37 degrees C, whereas radioligand binding to the noradrenaline transporter is most representative at 0 degrees C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Morphofunctional research on the effects of steroid-stimulating and -inhibiting drugs on the major salivary glands of rats.	Adult male albino rats underwent chronic treatment with synthetic adrenocorticotropin and Dexamethasone, and were examined for a long time after the administration of these drugs. The major salivary glands were observed by means of histological and histochemical methods. We did not find enzymatic modifications whereas morphological damage was particularly evident in the submaxillary and parotid glands, especially all after Dexamethasone treatment; this damage is to be found up to at least 14 days after the end of treatment.
Developmental changes in the responsiveness to ecdysterone of chromosome region I-18C of Chironomus tentans.	The presence of nascent RNA in chromosome region I-18C was revealed by the method of induced hybrid formation (IEH) and by use of anti-RNA:DNA antibodies. IEH signals were quantitated, and used as a measure of transcriptional activity in the region. The expansion of the I-18C region was also determined and used as an indication of local chromatin decondensation. Chironomus tentans larvae may undergo oligopause or they may develop subitaneously. It was found that the course of basal activity in I-18C differs substantially in these two modes of development. Most interestingly they also differ in activation of I-18C in response to in vitro ecdysterone treatment. Changes in hormonal responsiveness of I-18C parallel changes in the preexisting state of I-18C decondensation. Oligopause stage 5 animals, being most refractory in this respect, exhibit the most condensed I-18C chromosome region.
Test of six chemicals for embryotoxicity using fetal mouse salivary glands in culture.	Many new chemicals come into use each year, and the need for rapid and cost-effective methods for testing developmental toxicity is apparent. Establishing reliable in vitro techniques is important to a tier approach to testing for developmental toxicity. The fetal mouse salivary gland was selected as a possible test system because several interacting developmental processes occur in gland growth, and development is quantifiable by counting lobes. For each chemical tested, 20 glands from 13-day embryos were treated in a control media and in three concentrations of the test chemicals. The number of lobes present after 48 hours is dependent on the number of lobes at explantation. Glands with different numbers of lobes at explantation were compared by dividing the number of lobes present after 48 hours by the number present at explantation to determine a growth ratio. Mean growth ratios were used to construct dose-response curves, and from these curves the concentration that reduced growth by 50% (TP50) was determined. Comparisons with in vivo data were made by calculating three ratios; the TP50 was divided into the lowest teratogenic dose, the lowest maternal toxic dose, and the dose that was lethal to 50%. Four in vivo teratogens, 6-aminonicotinamide, cytochalasin B, hydroxyurea, and 3-acetylpyridine, all had ratios much higher than 1, indicating a very sensitive response by the glands. One in vivo teratogen, dexamethasone, had much lower ratios, indicating less sensitivity. Acetaminophen, a nonteratogen in vivo, actually stimulated growth of the glands at 10(-5) M and had very low ratios indicating a minimal response by the glands.
Effects of alpha, beta 1, and beta 2 adrenergic antagonists on the Na and K concentrations of sympathetic-nerve stimulated rat saliva.	Selective alpha and beta 1 and beta 2 adrenergic antagonists were used with electrical stimulation of the sympathetic innervation to parotid and submandibular glands of rats in order to delineate the role of the beta 1 and beta 2 adrenoceptors in regulation of salivary flow rate, Na reabsorption and K secretion from these glands. In parotid gland, [Na] of sympathetically evoked saliva in the presence of phentolamine (3 mg/kg, i.p.) was not different from that of nerve-evoked saliva in the presence of phentolamine and butoxamine (3 mg/kg, i.p.), except for the last 20 min of stimulation when [Na] of nerve-elicited saliva was higher. [K] of saliva with sympathetically evoked stimulation was the same in the presence of phentolamine alone as it was or in the presence of phentolamine and butoxamine. Again, there was no difference in salivary flow rate induced by either kind of stimulation, except for the first 10 min of stimulation, during which salivary flow rate of nerve-evoked saliva in the presence of phentolamine was lower than under the other conditions indicated. On the other hand, with submandibular gland, [Na] and [K] of nerve-elicited saliva in the presence of phentolamine were generally higher than levels of sympathetically evoked saliva in the presence of phentolamine and butoxamine. However, salivary flow rate of nerve-evoked saliva in the presence of phentolamine was generally lower than that of sympathetically evoked saliva in the presence of phentolamine and butoxamine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Isoproterenol-induced, lymphocyte-dependent hyperplasia of mouse salivary glands--a possible analog of a syngeneic mixed lymphocyte culture in vivo]	T-cell phenotype that regulates isoproterenol-induced lymphocyte-dependent hyperplasia of mouse salivary glands and conditions of its activation has been investigated. Stimulated Thy-1 and Ly-1-positive cell populations proliferated in the medium supplemented with both interleukin-1 (IL-1) and interleukin-2 (IL-2). The inhibiting population was Thy-1 and Ly-2-positive, proliferating only in IL-2-containing medium. Both regulatory cell properties and the character of their activation are similar to those of lymphocytes that regulate syngeneic mixed lymphocyte culture. The regularities shown may reflect important processes of cell proliferation regulation in multicellular organisms.
Effectiveness and safety of using cyclosporin A in the treatment of primary Sjögren's syndrome]	We used oral cyclosporine-A (CyA) (5 mg/kg/day) initially in a double blind study for 6 mos. 10 patients received CyA and 10 placebo. At the end of this study it was observed that CyA improved subjective xerostomia, while subjective xerophthalmia, parotid gland enlargement, Schirmer-I-test and parotid flow rate did not show any significant differences in the two study groups. 9 of 10 patients who had received CyA for 6 mos and 9 of 10 in the placebo group continued in an open trial (CyA at the same dose) for an additional 6 mos. At the end of the study the only efficacy of CyA observed was improvement of subjective xerostomia. The side-effects observed were hypertrichosis (14 persons), mild hypertension (4), infections (5) and 3 dropped out because of nausea, tremor, paresthesias and infections. In conclusion, small doses of CyA for 12 mos are rather ineffective for Sjogren's syndrome.
Effects of acetylcholine and forskolin on the non-electrolyte permeability of the perfused rabbit mandibular gland.	Previous studies have suggested that the permeability of exocrine glands to non-electrolytes may change according to the nature and intensity of the stimuli evoking secretion. The purpose of this study was to define the nature of these permeability changes using a method that distinguishes diffusion from solvent drag. Isolated rabbit mandibular salivary glands were perfused with solutions containing 14C-labelled non-electrolytes and stimulated with acetylcholine. Diffusive permeability coefficients (P) and solvent-drag filtration coefficients (1-sigma) were estimated from the relationship between salivary non-electrolyte concentration and salivary flow rate. Filtration coefficients for urea, ethanediol, glycerol, erythritol and sucrose increased with acetylcholine concentration while, with the exception of urea, the diffusive permeabilities remained virtually unchanged. The effect of increasing acetylcholine concentration can best be explained by postulating an increase in the effective channel radius of the water secretion pathway from 0.40 nm to 0.45 nm together with a small increase in the fraction of the total water flow passing through larger non-selective pores. Forskolin had little effect on either of the permeability parameters except for a small increase in the diffusive permeability to ethanediol.
Effect of reserpine on salivary gland radioiodine uptake in thyroid cancer.	Nine patients with thyroid cancer were treated with reserpine in an attempt to reduce radiation exposure to the salivary glands from 100-150 mCi doses of I-131 therapy to thyroid remnants or metastases. Three control patients were not treated with reserpine but did receive 100-150 mCi of I-131. Parotid/background ratios of activity after radioablative doses of I-131 in patients not treated with reserpine were significantly higher than the patients treated with reserpine, and this was also true seven days after the radioablative dose. Combined therapy with reserpine, chewing gum, lemon candies, and hydration is suggested for the prevention of sialadenitis and xerostomia due to large doses of radioiodine.
Induced stabilization of the transmembrane potential of Drosophila cells by heat shock and periodic applications of chloramphenicol.	The transmembrane potential of Drosophila salivary gland cells is largely decreased (by 78% within 120 min) in response to the application of 5 mM-chloramphenicol (CAP), with an initial slope of 0.5 mV min-1. This depolarization is reversed immediately after the CAP concentration is reduced to 0.06 mM by step-wise dilution with normal medium. At the same concentration, thiamphenicol (TAP) induces only a small reversible depolarization by less than 30% within 120 min. These results are in agreement with the different effects of CAP and TAP on respiration and induction of the heat-shock genes, as known from previous data. The extent of induced membrane depolarization decreases with the number of repeated applications of CAP to the same cell, alternating with 75-min periods of recovery. Moreover, reduced sensitivity to CAP is also observed in cells recovering from a transient heat shock (30 min, 36 degrees C) 45 min prior to the addition of CAP. This phenomenon is inhibited by cycloheximide (0.1 mM), which suggests an involvement of heat-induced proteins in the stabilization of certain membrane functions.
31P NMR studies on the isolated perfused mandibular gland of the rat.	Phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance (31P NMR) was used to study energy metabolism in the rat mandibular gland. The gland was isolated, perfused arterially and set in the NMR tube. At rest, 7 resonance peaks were observed and 6 peaks identified from low field as: 1) sugar phosphates (SP) and nucleotide monophosphate (NMP), 2) inorganic phosphate (Pi), 3) creatine phosphate (PCr), 4) gamma-nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) and beta-nucleotide diphosphate (NDP), 5) alpha-NTP, alpha-NDP, NAD+, and NADH, 6) an unknown peak, and 7) beta-NTP. From the results of high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), NTP consisted mainly of ATP and GTP, and UTP was not detected. The tissue contents of ATP and GTP in the perfused gland were determined by HPLC as 1.86 +/- 0.03 and 0.37 +/- 0.01 mmol/kg wet tissue (S.E., n = 5). From 31P NMR and HPLC data, the tissue levels of creatine phosphate, ADP, and sugar phosphates were estimated as 3.3, 0.4, and 4.2 mmol/kg wet tissue, respectively. The cessation of perfusion decreased the tissue levels of PCr and ATP and increased those of Pi and SP. On the other hand, administration of acetylcholine (1 microM), which is an optimal dose for secretion, decreased PCr and increased Pi but did not change SP. The ATP was unchanged initially and slowly decreased to the lower level during sustained secretion. These findings suggest that a sustained secretion requires more energy from ATP hydrolysis rather than initial secretion.
Membrane potential and resistance changes induced in salivary gland acinar cells by microiontophoretic application of acetylcholine and adrenergic agonists.	The effects of microiontophoretic applications of catecholamines and acetylcholine on parotid acinar cell membrane potential and resistance were investigated using intracellular microelectrode recording in superfused segments of mouse parotid or rat submandibular glands. Short pulses of acetylcholine and alpha-adrenergic agonists had similar effects, consisting of a marked decrease in membrane resistance accompanied by an initial depolization or hyperpolarization depending on the level of the resting membrane potential. This initial response was followed by a slow hyperpolarization occurring at a time when the resistance was increasing towards the prestimulation level. The equilibrium potential for the initial potential change caused by excitation of the cholinergic receptors was investigated directly by setting the membrane potential at different levels by injecting direct current and stimulating the same cell repeatedly with equal doses of acetylcholine. The equilibrium potential was found to be about -55 mV. The delayed hyperpolarization could not be reversed by passing hyperpolarizing current, but actually increased in size with higher membrane potentials. The minimum latency of the effect of acetylcholine or alpha-adrenergic agonists was 200-500 msec. Excitation of beta-adrenoceptors caused, after a long latency of several seconds, a small depolarization. Epinephrine induced a combined alpha- and beta-adrenergic response, with the alpha-component predominating. Blocking the alpha-adrenoceptors with phentolamine revealed the beta-adrenergic depolarization, while blocking the beta-adrenoceptors with propranolol caused the components of the alpha-adrenergic response to become more pronounced. All three receptors (alpha- and beta-adrenoceptors and cholinergic receptors) were present in individual acini.
The role of the salivary glands in supporting the relative stability of the blood hydrolytic activity]	Acute and chronic experiments in dogs revealed participation of the salivary glands in ensuring a relative constancy of the blood enzyme activity. The saliva hydrolases reflected the spectrum of blood plasma and its disturbance and extend the possibilities of the sialoenzymodiagnosis.
Developmental aspects of fluid and electrolyte secretion in salivary glands.	The salivary glands of rodents undergo considerable cytodifferentiation after birth and are useful models for the study of functional development, including the mechanisms of fluid and electrolyte secretion. In the rat submandibular gland, secretion of salivary fluid cannot be elicited until approximately 2 weeks of age. The currently accepted model of salivary fluid secretion indicates that this process depends on the activation, on stimulation of cholinergic receptors, of several ion transport systems, resulting in a net transport of osmotically active ions (primarily Cl- and Na+) across the acinar epithelium. This creates the necessary osmotic gradient for the transacinar movement of water. The process is associated with a signal transduction pathway involving the formation of phosphoinositide products (primarily inositol triphosphate or IP3) and the mobilization of Ca2+. The latter regulates monovalent ion conductances (K+, Cl-), which are critical for the secretory process. Immature submandibular glands and cells of early postnatal rats have a lower density of cholinergic receptors and release less K+ and Cl- than mature cells and gradually develop other ion transport systems (such as a Na, K, 2Cl cotransport system) involved in the secretory process. Surprisingly, they form more IP3 and show a larger increase in cytosolic Ca2+ when stimulated with maximal or supramaximal concentrations of agonist. Therefore, they show some interesting dissociations in the signal transduction mechanism that suggest differences in the coupling between receptors and membrane phosphoinositides, between IP3 and IP3-dependent Ca2+ stores, and between the Ca2+ signal and the monovalent ion transport systems which are critical for secretion.
Salivary gland dysfunction: causes, symptoms, treatment.	The three most common known causes of salivary gland dysfunction are medication usage, radiation therapy and Sjogren's syndrome. Current therapeutic options to treat salivary dysfunction are limited. Clinical considerations as well as the outlook for individuals experiencing salivary dysfunction are discussed.
The effect of propranolol on salivary gland function and dental caries development in young and aged rats.	Medications commonly used in elderly people cause hyposalivation and are associated with an enhanced prevalence of dental caries. Propranolol (a beta-adrenergic antagonist) is a commonly used antihypertensive agent that is prescribed for long-term use. The purpose of this investigation was to compare the effects of this drug on salivary composition and flow rate, and on caries, in young and aged rats. Forty young (28-day) and 36 aged (20-month) female Sprague-Dawley rats were infected with Streptococcus sobrinus 6715 and fed a cariogenic diet for 28 days. Propranolol was given in high (20 mg/kg/day) and low (10 mg/kg/day) doses via osmotic pumps. Unoperated and desalivated animals served as controls. Smooth-surface caries scores in the young animals receiving propranolol at 20 mg/kg/day were statistically higher than in the young intact rats (p < or = 0.05). Increased smooth-surface and sulcal caries scores were recorded in the aged propranolol-treated animals, but the differences were not statistically significant when compared with those in intact aged animals. Propranolol in aged animals did not affect the amount of alveolar bone loss but increased the risk of development of root caries. Young animals harboured greater populations of Strep. sobrinus and total cultivable flora than did all aged groups except the desalivated group. Salivary flow rates, induced by pilocarpine, were not decreased by the chronic administration of propranolol. Although the total protein concentration in parotid and submandibular saliva from drug-treated animals was reduced, differences were not observed in their SDS-PAGE profile when compared with unoperated animals. The findings demonstrate that chronic use of propranolol reduced the total protein concentration in saliva of all animals, increased caries susceptibility, but did not reduce the stimulated salivary flow rate.
Protein synthesis in the major salivary glands of the rat and the effects of re-feeding and acute ethanol injection.	Rates of protein synthesis in the major salivary glands of the rat were accurately determined in vivo using the 'flooding dose' technique and the effects of reflex stimulation through feeding or acute ethanol treatment were assessed. Rats were divided into three groups. The control group was fasted overnight, the re-fed group was also fasted then re-fed the following morning and the third group received an intraperitoneal injection of ethanol after an overnight fast. In control rats the sublingual gland had a higher rate of protein synthesis than the other glands. After a feed the rate of protein synthesis in parotid glands was approximately double that of controls whilst that of the submandibular glands had increased by 24% and the sublingual glands remained unchanged. Acute ethanol injection led to a reduced rate of protein synthesis in all glands. The higher rate of protein synthesis in sublingual glands under fasting conditions may be related to the spontaneous secretion of fluid and protein from this gland, which would require a constant replenishment of secretory protein by synthesis. Protein synthesis in the parotid gland, like secretion, appears to be closely linked with the reflex stimulation caused by mastication. The smaller increase in rate of protein synthesis seen in the submandibular gland after a re-feed does not appear to have been recorded before. It could be mediated by the increased reflex stimuli caused by mastication or by some circulating factor. The mechanism by which ethanol reduces protein synthesis in all glands is uncertain.
Impaired salivary gland function after radiotherapy compounded by commonly prescribed medications.	Impaired salivary gland function can be a major cause of late morbidity following the treatment of head and neck cancer with radiotherapy. A large number of commonly prescribed medications can also reduce salivary gland function. We report three patients with already impaired salivary gland function following successful radiotherapy in whom additional prescribed medication led to an increased reduction in salivary flow, thus further impairing the quality of life of these patients. Stopping the medication resulted in subjective and objective improvement in salivary gland function.
(+/-)-cis-2-methylspiro[1,3-oxathiolane-5,3'-quinuclidine] hydrochloride, hemihydrate (SNI-2011, cevimeline hydrochloride) induces saliva and tear secretions in rats and mice: the role of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors.	We investigated effects of (+/-)-cis-2-methylspiro[1,3-oxathiolane-5,3'-quinuclidine] hydrochloride, hemihydrate (SNI-2011, cevimeline hydrochloride), a rigid analogue of acetylcholine, on saliva and tear secretions in rats and mice to evaluate its therapeutical efficacy for xerostomia and xerophthalmia in patients with Sjogren's syndrome and X-ray exposure in the head and neck. Intraduodenal administrations of SNI-2011 increased saliva secretion in a dose-dependent manner at doses ranging from 3 to 30 mg/kg in normal rats and mice, two strains of autoimmune disease mice and X-irradiated saliva secretion defective rats. The salivation elicited by SNI-2011 was completely inhibited by atropine. A similar atropine-sensitive response was observed in tear secretion. In rat submandibular/sublingual gland membranes, [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate (QNB) binding was saturable, and Scatchard plot analysis revealed a single population of binding sites with a Kd of 22 pM and a maximal binding capacity of 60 fmol/mg protein. The competitive inhibition curve of the [3H]QNB binding by SNI-2011 was obtained, and its dissociation constant value calculated from IC50 was 1-2 microM. These results suggest that SNI-2011 increases saliva and tear secretions through a direct stimulation to muscarinic receptors in salivary and lacrimal glands, and they suggest that SNI-2011 should be beneficial to patients with Sjögren's syndrome and X-ray exposure in the head and neck.
Ultrastructural changes of Drosophila larval and prepupal salivary glands cultured in vitro with ecdysone.	Alterations in the ultrastructure of in vitro cultured larval salivary glands of Drosophila melanogaster in response to the steroid hormone ecdysone were studied in relation to complex changes in puffing patterns. We found that the changes in the fine structure of cultured glands reflected progression of the puffing pattern, and they paralleled those seen in vivo. We observed that glue secretion by exocytosis, the main function of salivary glands, took place between puff stage 5 (PS5) and PS7. Glue could not be expectorated under culture conditions but was slowly released from the lumen through a duct into the medium. After the cultured glands reached PS13/PS14, further progress of puffing and fine structural alterations required that the ecdysteroid titer be transiently extremely low or absent. Under in vitro conditions we did not observe the putative new secretory program(s) described for glands in vivo after PS12. However, ultrastructural changes which unambiguously indicated that an autohistolytic process had begun in vitro started to appear after PS17. Many salivary gland cells developed numerous features of progressive self-degradation between PS18 and PS21. Actual degradation of salivary glands in vivo seemed to be rapid, but in vitro degradation was never completed, probably due to a lack of exogenous factors from the hemolymph. Manipulations of ecdysone titer in vitro in the culture medium, known during the larval puffing cycle to cause premature induction of developmentally specific puffing patterns, did not affect the normal development of ultrastructural features of the cytoplasm and nucleus.
