Immunohistochemical investigations on the epimyoepithelial islands in lymphoepithelial lesions. Use of monoclonal keratin antibodies.	The histogenetic origin of cells in the epimyoepithelial islands occurring in patients with Sjoegren's syndrome has been investigated by using different monoclonal antibodies. The majority of cells in these islands reacted with broad specificity antibodies against keratins. The same cells are stained by a monoclonal antibody CKB1 which detects myoepithelial (basket) cells and basal cells (around the ducts) in normal salivary gland tissue, but which does not stain ductal epithelial cells. Conversely, the cells are not stained by the antibody CK5 which stains ductal epithelial cells in normal salivary gland tissue. The relation of the epimyoepithelial islands to the myoepithelial/basal cell system is thus demonstrated. Certain implications for practical use in surgical pathology are discussed.
Cytokeratin expression in normal salivary glands and in cystadenolymphomas demonstrated by monoclonal antibodies against selective cytokeratin polypeptides.	The distribution of selective cytokeratin polypeptides, vimentin, and glial fibrillary protein (GFP) in 5 human cystadenolymphomas of the parotid gland was compared with normal human parotid (n = 5) and submandibular (n = 4) glands using a panel of monoclonal antibodies against diverse and selective cytokeratin polypeptides, vimentin and glial fibrillary protein (GFP). A biotinstreptavidin method was used on cryostat sections. The immunocytochemical finding of identical cytokeratin polypeptides Nos. 7, 8, 18 and 19 and basal cells selectively labeled by the monoclonal antibody KS 8.58, in both the epithelial part of the cystadenolymphomas and in the duct epithelium of the parotid gland, confirms the hypothesis that the epithelial compartment of cystadenolymphomas is derived from the duct system. The triple expression of cytokeratin, vimentin and GFP in myoepithelial cells of the parotid gland is discussed.
Heterogeneity of keratin expression in epithelial tumor cells of adenolymphoma in paraffin sections.	Immunohistochemical expressions of keratin polypeptides detected by monoclonal antibodies were described in tumor cells of adenolymphoma, and the possibility of intercalated duct and ductal basal cells in the salivary glands being the progenitors was discussed. Basal cells in the tumor showed positive staining for keratin nos. 8, 13, 16, 18 and 19 detecting for monoclonal keratin antibodies (PKK 1, K 4.62, K 8.12, K 8.13), columnar tumor cells displayed strongly positive reactions with RPN 1164 and K4.62 suggesting keratin nos. 8 and 19. Great heterogeneity of distribution for keratin polypeptides was displayed by epithelial cells of adenolymphoma. Intercalated duct cells of normal salivary glands reacted with RPN 1164, RPN 1165, K 4.62 and K 8.13 monoclonal antibodies, which indicates the presence of keratins 8 and 19; and ductal basal cells reacted with PKK 1, K 4.62 and K 8.12, suggesting nos. 8, 13, 16, 18 and 19 keratins. Distribution of involucrin was variable in tumor epithelium of adenolymphoma, and was negative in the normal gland. The immunohistochemical distribution of keratin types between basal tumor cells of adenolymphoma and ductal basal cells of the normal salivary gland was compared.
Heterogeneous expression of S-100 protein subunits alpha and beta in cystadenolymphomas of salivary glands.	Immunohistochemical expression of S-100 protein and its subunits alpha and beta in a total of 27 cases of cystadenolymphomas of the parotid gland is described by means of polyclonal anti-S-100 protein antiserum and monoclonal antibodies against S-100 alpha and beta. Normal salivary glands showed strongly positive staining for S-100 alpha in acinic cells and a negative or slightly positive reaction in ductal cells; however, they were usually negative for S-100 beta staining. Neoplastic epithelial cells of cystadenolymphomas showed slightly positive staining for S-100 alpha in their cytoplasm, and there was a strongly positive reaction in a limited number of tumour cells. The S-100 beta subunit was expressed as a fine granular deposition in the apical cytoplasm of tumour cells. S-100 protein staining with the polyclonal reagent was usually negative or slightly positive in the tumour epithelia, but a small number of strongly positive cells were scattered throughout the tumour epithelia, suggesting the presence of Langerhan's cells. Interdigitating cells in lymphoid tissue reacted positively to monoclonal S-100 alpha as well as to the polyclonal antiserum.
The occurrence of blood group substances (A, B, H, Le-a, Le-b) in salivary glands and salivary gland tumors. An immunohistochemical investigation.	The distribution of blood group substances A, B, H, Le-a and Le-b in normal and neoplastic salivary gland tissue was evaluated by means of immunohistochemistry. The serological ABH blood group status of one third of the patients was known. Lewis blood group and secretory status were not known. In normal tissue, expression of blood group antigens corresponded to the serological blood group. Blood group substance H was present in almost every gland, regardless of the serological blood group. In submandibular glands, Le-b was rather selective for mucous acini. In tumors, a relationship of blood group expression to a glandular pattern and a high differentiation could be observed. Blood group substances were expressed at a high level in benign and highly differentiated malignant tumors. In poorly differentiated malignant tumors, they were mostly absent. Blood group expression evaluation could be of value in establishing the level of functional differentiation in salivary gland tumors.
p75, a polypeptide component of karyoskeletal protein-enriched fractions associated with transcriptionally active loci of Drosophila melanogaster polytene chromosomes.	A 75-kilodalton polypeptide has been identified which copurifies with karyoskeletal protein-enriched fractions prepared from Drosophila melanogaster embryos. Results of indirect immunofluorescence experiments suggest that this protein, here designated p75, is primarily associated with puffed regions of larval salivary gland polytene chromosomes. In nonpolytenized Schneider 2 tissue culture cells, p75 appeared to be localized throughout the nuclear interior during interphase. In mitotic cells, p75 was redistributed diffusely. A possible role for karyoskeletal elements in transcriptional regulation is discussed.
The amino acid sequence of antistasin. A potent inhibitor of factor Xa reveals a repeated internal structure.	Antistasin is a 15-kDa protein from the salivary glands of the Mexican leech, Haementeria officinalis, which manifests anticoagulant activity by inhibiting factor Xa. Previous work demonstrating the presence of this activity in salivary gland extracts and its partial purification has been reported (Tuszynski, G. P., Gasic, T. B, and Gasic, G.J. (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 9718-9723). The present study includes further purification to homogeneity of antistasin and its subsequent fragmentation and complete amino acid sequence determination. The protein, which possesses 119 amino acid residues, is blocked at its amino terminus by the presence of a pyroglutamic acid residue and has an unusually high cysteine content, with 20 cysteine residues. The primary structure of antistasin shows no homology to hirudin, a 65-residue anticoagulant protein from the medicinal leech, Hirudo medicinalis. Of great interest is the finding of significant internal homology within antistasin where a 2-fold internal repeated structure is observed. At least four isoforms of antistasin have been identified in leech salivary gland extracts by high performance liquid chromatography analysis, and partial amino acid sequence analysis of these isoforms indicates they differ by 1 or 2 amino acid residues.
Isolation, chemical and biological characterization of sulphated glycoproteins synthesized by rat buccal and palatal minor salivary glands in vivo and in vitro.	35S-labelled sulphated glycoproteins (SGP) were isolated from these glands after the incorporation of radiosulphate in vivo and in vitro by fractionation of tissue and medium extracts on Sepharose 4B and partial purification by DEAE-Sephacel anion exchange chromatography. Fractions were assessed for purity by SDS-PAGE and by cellulose-acetate electrophoresis. Molecular weights ranged from 34,000 to 5 X 10(6). It was notable that the molecular size of SGP from the in vitro media was generally lower than from the corresponding tissue fractions, particularly for the palatal samples. The fractions were heterogeneous and contained no sulphated glycosaminoglycans; they had high levels of aspartic acid, glutamic acid, threonine and serine, but there was no major difference in amino-acid composition between them. Carbohydrate analysis indicated typical components associated with sulphated glycoproteins, including fucose, galactose, glucose, mannose, N-acetylgalactosamine, N-acetylglucosamine and N-acetylneuraminic acid. Protein:carbohydrate ratios ranged from 0.1:1.0-3.5:1.0 and ester sulphate from 0.8 to 16.2 per cent. All fractions exhibited blood-group A reactivity and aggregated Streptococcus sanguis NCTC 7864; several fractions interacted similarly with Streptococcus mutans OMZ61.
Studies on kallikrein in the duct systems of the salivary glands of the cat.	By correlating immunofluorescence light microscopy with electron microscope studies and with kallikrein concentrations under various conditions, we have made the following observations and conclusions about kallikrein in the submandibular and other salivary glands.1. In the submandibular gland, specific immunofluorescence to kallikrein was observed in the luminal region of the striated ducts particularly, but also in the outer epithelial cells of the stratified epithelial collecting ducts. Sympathetic nerve stimulation resulted in a reduction in intensity of specific fluorescence and in its increased localization towards the lumen. The nearly complete elimination of kallikrein from the gland by duct obstruction for four days resulted in complete disappearance of specific fluorescence in the gland. Prolonged parasympathetic nerve stimulation at frequencies which did not reduce the kallikrein concentration of the gland failed to alter the specific immunofluorescence despite copious secretion of saliva. Our results failed to reveal evidence of secretion of kallikrein either into or towards the interstitium of the gland. The luminal layer of stratified epithelial cells in the collecting ducts contained small secretory granules closely resembling those in the striated ducts. Our results are not conclusive, but do suggest that kallikrein is located in these granules whence it is secreted into the lumen of the duct.2. The parotid gland was found to contain much lower concentrations of kallikrein than the submandibular gland. This finding was associated with the presence of far fewer striated ducts in the parotid gland. Otherwise, specific fluorescence and the response to sympathetic nerve stimulation was like that of the submandibular gland. Small secretory granules in the striated and collecting ducts resembled those of the submandibular gland.3. The sublingual gland, like the parotid, had a low concentration of kallikrein and very few striated ducts. These ducts were unevenly distributed and were concentrated in only a few lobules of the gland. Specific immunofluorescence was seen only in sections containing striated ducts.4. The possible physiological role of kallikrein in the salivary glands is discussed.
Structural and dynamical comparison of alpha, beta and gamma forms of murine epidermal growth factor.	Reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography of mouse epidermal growth factor (mEGF) purified by the method of Savage and Cohen allows resolution of four forms of the protein hormone: alpha, beta, gamma and delta. alpha-mEGF, the major form isolated by HPLC, is the parent mEGF originally sequenced by Savage and Cohen, and beta-mEGF is des-asparaginyl1-alpha-mEGF. Proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy has been used to investigate structural and dynamical differences among the alpha, beta and gamma forms of the peptide. Based on these data, gamma-mEGF can be tentatively identified as des-Asn1, Ser2-mEGF. Comparative nuclear Overhauser experiments on amide and aromatic proton resonances suggest that there are significant conformational changes in the peptide structure on cleavage of the N-terminal residues. Backbone amide proton/deuteron exchange rates in gamma-mEGF and beta-mEGF are significantly faster than those in alpha-mEGF suggesting that structural dynamics are enhanced in the minor forms; this interpretation is supported by the decrease in Tyr(2,6)-(3,5) intraresidue NOE magnitudes on going from alpha to beta to gamma forms. These data suggest that the average conformations of beta and gamma-mEGF favor a more open or denatured state of the protein and that the N terminus is critical to the structural integrity of the parent protein.
Identification and partial purification of species-specific allergens from Triatoma protracta (Heteroptera:Reduviidae).	This article describes the immunochemical characterization of allergens from Triatoma protracta, a hematophagous insect that causes IgE-mediated anaphylactic reactions when it bites sensitized allergic persons. Comparison of the allergenic potency of T. protracta salivary gland extract, thoracic and abdominal hemolymph, and a whole body extract by RAST inhibition demonstrated that salivary glands were the main source of T. protracta allergens. Concentrated salivary gland extracts were purified by gel filtration and isoelectric focusing. Fractions were tested for allergenic activity by RAST inhibition and for protein purity by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoelectrophoresis. Two protein peaks were obtained on gel filtration. The high-molecular-weight peak contained a 70,000 MW protein/glycoprotein that had little allergenic activity. The low-molecular-weight peak comprised six proteins, molecular weight 17,000 to 25,000, and T. protracta allergen(s) eluted in parallel with this peak. These proteins were resolved by isoelectric focusing, and two fractions, pI 6.7 to 7.3 and pI 8.2, contained most of the allergenic activity. By RAST, 25/28 sera from T. protracta-allergic patients contained IgE antibody to these fractions, suggesting that they were major allergens. Each fraction demonstrated a single precipitin arc on immunoelectrophoresis and two bands, molecular weight 18,000 to 20,000, on gel electrophoresis. Cross-inhibition radioimmunoassays demonstrated that each fraction completely inhibited binding of the other fraction to IgE antibody, suggesting that they contained different isoelectric forms of the same allergen.
Steroid hormone receptors in human salivary gland tumours.	Major salivary gland tumours were studied for the presence of hormone receptors for oestrogen and progesterone. Of the eight salivary gland tumours exhibiting varied histology, none showed high affinity receptors for oestrogen or progesterone. Salivary tissue from four patients with non-neoplastic salivary gland disease was also studied and found not to contain high affinity receptor sites. The absence of hormone receptors in these glands suggests that such tumours are not dependent on endocrine function.
Comparison of membrane phospholipid and its fatty acid compositions in developing rat salivary glands.	1. Membrane phospholipid and its fatty acid compositions have been analyzed in 3- and 9-week-old rat salivary glands. 2. When compared between the three major glands (parotid, submandibular, sublingual) in adult rats, phospholipid compositions were similar, but for their fatty acid, characteristic properties from each phospholipid were shown. 3. Alterations in their compositions were also observed during development of the salivary glands.
Immunocytochemical detection of carcinoembryonic antigen in salivary gland tumors.	The immunoperoxidase method was applied for carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) detection in biopsy specimens of salivary gland tumors. 9 out of 10 adenoidcystic carcinomas revealed a strong and abundant reaction in tumoral glands. 10 other specimens of pleomorphic adenomas showed weak staining in the areas of epithelial proliferation. Normal glands adjacent to the tumor mass revealed a weak but constant reaction on the luminal border. As in other types of gland tumor, the quantitative estimation of CEA production by salivary gland tumors may be useful in the monitoring of recurrencies.
Evaluation of the effects of nerve growth factor and anti-nerve growth factor on the development of central catecholamine-containing neurons.	Intracisternal NGF or anti-NGF has been found to produce no long-term major alterations in central norepinephrine (NE) or dopamine levels when administered to neonatal rats. While NGF and anti-NGF were found to produce significant changes in brain NE content within one week of treatment, changes in central NE were no longer detectable at 30 days of age. Modification of the growth response of the central adrenergic neurons following 6-OHDA treatment was also not affected by NGF or anti-NGF when evaluated 3 weeks after treatment. However, centrally administered anti-NGF did induce a loss of peripheral NE terminals, which was attributed to leakage of the anti-NGF from the central injection site.
Co-replication of satellite DNA of Chironomus melanotus with mainband DNA during polytenization.	The DNAs of five Chironomus species, C. plumosus, C. nuditarsis, C. thummi thummi, C. melanotus, and Camptochironomus pallidivittatus, were investigated in analytical neutral isopycnic CsCl density gradients. DNA was isolated both from larval brains ("diploid-DNA") and salivary glands ("polytene-DNA"). The buoyant densities of mainband DNAs were 1.692 g/cm3, with the exception of C. melanotus whose mainband had a density of 1.693 g/cm3. The densities correspond to a calculated GC content of 33% and 34% respectively. Only in C. melanotus was the DNA clearly resolved into mainband DNA and two distinct satellite shoulders: Satellite I, with a buoyant density of 1.684 g/cm3 (25% GC, calculated) and satellite II of 1.679 g/cm3 (19% GC, calculated). The two satellites comprise 15% of the total DNA in the "diploid-DNA"' and they also occur in the "polytene-DNA", where they make up 11%. The results are discussed in the general context of under- and overreplication in polyploid and polytene cells.
Calcium concentration of salivary glands and saliva after chemical or surgical sympathectomy.	Calcium concentration of the submaxillary (SM) gland of adult rat was increased to 2-3 times control levels 24 h after a single high dose of reserpine (RES) (5 mg/kg body weight), 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) (20 mg/kg body weight), or surgical removal of a superior cervical ganglion (Sx). The increase could also be induced within 24 h after a single injection of lower doses of RES (0.05, 0.5 mg/kg body weight). Increase in calcium concentration in the parotid (PA) was not found under any of the above conditions, but did occur transiently at times within 24 h. The increase in glandular calcium concentration was found to be temporally related to depletion of norepinephrine (NE). The time frame for initiation of calcium changes was not the same for chemical and surgical sympathectomy (Sx). Increase in calcium concentration occurred after onset of sympathectomy-induced degeneration secretion; the onset varied with the kind of sympathectomy, and was seen 1 h after drug administration with either RES or 6-OHDA, but not until about 13 h after surgical Sx. Similarly, NE was markedly depleted, but later with surgical than with chemical Sx. Furthermore, with both kinds of sympathectomy, depletion of NE occurred earlier with PA than with SM, since normal basal levels of NE of SM are 3 times as great (3400 ng/g wet weight), compared with PA levels (1300 ng/g wet weight). The fact that NED was the neurotransmitter eliciting the degeneration secretion was confirmed physiologically by examination of the composition of this secretion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Techniques and applications of extracellular space determination in mammalian tissues.	This review summarizes the ways in which the extracellular space (ECS) may be estimated in mammalian tissues, and briefly describes some of the uses to which the EC confinement of certain molecules (markers or tracers) may be put in the elucidation of physiological functions. The introductory section is followed by a description of the more commonly used marker molecules and their functional characteristics, and of factors likely to lead to the spurious over- or under-estimation of the ECS. Certain alternative methods are also described, in particular those based on morphological and electrical criteria which seek to demonstrate small, functionally important, changes in the size of specialized regions of the ECS (e.g. lateral cellular interspaces) without necessarily being required to provide a quantitatively precise estimate of their size. Section III describes the results of measurements of ECS in various mammalian tissues (muscle, gastro-intestinal tract, nervous tissue, crystalline lens, placenta, lung and kidney) and some applications of EC markers to investigation of cellular function (e.g. uptake of metabolic substrates and epithelial transport) and, in outline, characterization of capillary permeability. The available literature in this field is very extensive, and in the interests of brevity the reader is, where appropriate, referred to previous reviews covering specialized aspects of ECS determination and related topics.
