Mechanistic changes during phytoremediation of perchlorate under different root-zone conditions.	Two types of hydroponic bioreactors were used to investigate the mechanisnistic changes during phytoremediation of perchlorate under different root-zone conditions. The bioreactors included: (1) an aerobic ebb-and-flow system planted with six willow trees, and (2) individual willow trees grown in sealed root-zone bioreactors. Rhizosphere probes were used to monitor for the first time during phytoremediation of perchlorate, diurnal swings in oxidation-reduction potential (E(H)), dissolved oxygen (DO), and pH. Radiolabeled (36Cl-labeled) perchlorate was used as a tracer in a subset of the sealed bioreactor experiments to quantify the contribution of phytodegradation and rhizodegradation mechanisms. Rhizodegradation accounted for the removal of 96.1 +/- 4.5% (+/-95% CI) of the initial perchlorate dose in experiments conducted in sealed hydroponic bioreactors with low DO and little or no nitrate N. Meanwhile, the contribution of rhizodegradation decreased to 76 +/- 14% (+/-95% CI) when nitrate (a competing terminal electron acceptor) was provided as the nitrogen source. Slower rates of phytoremediation by uptake and phytodegradation were observed under high nitrate concentrations and aerobic conditions, which allowed perchlorate to persist in solution and resulted in a higher fraction uptake by the plant. Specifically, the rate of removal of perchlorate from bulk solution ranged from 5.4 +/- 0.54 to 37.1 +/- 2.25 mg/L/d (+/-SE) in the absence of nitrate to 1.78 +/- 0.27 to 0.46 +/- 0.02 mg/L/d (+/-SE) at high nitrate concentration. The results of this study indicate that the root-zone environment of plants can be manipulated to optimize rhizodegradation and to minimize undesirable processes such as uptake, temporal phytoaccumulation, and slow phytodegradation during phytoremediation of perchlorate. Rhizodegradation is desired because contaminants resident in plant tissue may remain an ecological risk until completely phytodegraded.
Heat shock protein 47 expression in aged normal human fibroblasts: modulation by Salix alba extract.	Heat shock protein (HSP) 47 is a specific chaperone of procollagen. This heat shock protein is responsible for the correct three-dimensional organization of procollagen and its control-quality prior secretion. The aim of the study is to evaluate the level of HSP 47 in aged, photoaged, and senescent fibroblasts and its modulation by a plant extract (Salix alba). The level of HSP 47 and/or procollagen expression in fibroblasts was measured by real-time RT-PCR (mRNA transcripts) and by flow cytometry (immunochemistry technique for measurement of arbitrary fluorescence intensity). Immunochemistry techniques and confocal microscopy were used to visualize the cellular localization of HSP 47 and procollagen. These parameters were compared with different age donors, nonsenescent, and senescent fibroblasts. Fibroblasts were irradiated by a noncytotoxic dose of UVA (6 J/cm(2)), and HSP 47 level was evaluated. S. alba extract was tested for its capacity to modulate HSP 47 expression. Colocalization of HSP 47 and procollagen was shown by confocal microscopy, indicating that HSP 47 could play a role of procollagen molecular chaperone in the cellular model. It was also shown that the HSP 47 level is decreased in old-donor cells, senescent, and irradiated cells. This decrease can be modulated by a S. alba extract (polyphenols rich) in a dose-dependent manner. The evaluation of HSP 47 expression in the experimental conditions can lead to a new approach of aging and photoaging, pointing out the implication of this chaperone in these pathophysiologic phenomena. Modulation of HSP 47 expression by this family of molecules could be of cosmetic and/or dermatologic interest.
The effect of hydrological regime on the metal bioavailability for the wetland plant species Salix cinerea.	The hydrological conditions on a site constitute one of the many factors that may affect the availability of potentially toxic trace metals for uptake by plants. Bioavailability of Cd, Mn and Zn in a contaminated dredged sediment-derived soil under different hydrological regimes was determined by measuring metal uptake by the wetland plant species Salix cinerea, both in field circumstances and in a greenhouse experiment. Longer submersion periods in the field caused lower Cd concentrations in leaves and bark. The wetland hydrological regime in the greenhouse experiment resulted in normal Cd and Zn concentrations in the leaves, while the upland hydrological regime resulted in elevated Cd and Zn concentrations in the leaves. Field observations and the greenhouse experiment suggest that a hydrological regime that creates or sustains a wetland is a potential management option that reduces metal bioavailability to willows. This would constitute a safe management option of metal-polluted, willow-dominated wetlands provided that wetland conditions can be maintained throughout the full growing season.
Interactions between accumulation of trace elements and macronutrients in Salix caprea after inoculation with rhizosphere microorganisms.	Although the beneficial effects on growth and trace element accumulation in Salix spp. inoculated with microbes are well known, little information is available on the interactions among trace elements and macronutrients. The main purpose of this study was to assess the effect of phytoaugmentation with the rhizobacteria Agromyces sp., Streptomyces sp., and the combination of each of them with the fungus Cadophora finlandica on biomass production and the accumulation of selected trace elements (Zn, Cd, Fe) and macronutrients (Ca, K, P and Mg) in Salix caprea grown on a moderately polluted soil. Dry matter production was significantly enhanced only upon inoculation with Agromyces sp. Regarding the phytoextraction of Cd and Zn, shoot concentrations were mostly increased after inoculation with Streptomyces sp. and Agromyces sp. + C. finlandica. These two treatments also showed higher translocation factors from roots to the leaves for both Cd and Zn. The accumulation of Cd and Zn in shoots was related to increased concentrations of K. This suggests that microorganisms that contribute to enhanced phytoextraction of Cd and Zn affect also the solubility and thus phytoavailability of K. This study suggests that the phytoextraction of Zn and Cd can be improved by inoculation with selected microbial strains.
Terrestrial ecosystem recovery following removal of a PCB point source at a former pole vault line radar station in Northern Labrador.	Saglek Bay (LAB-2), located on the northeast coast of Labrador is a former Polevault station that was operated by the U.S. Air Force from 1953 to 1971 when it was abandoned. An environmental assessment carried out in 1996 determined that the site was contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) with concentrations in soils far exceeding the Canadian Environmental Protection Agency (CEPA) regulation of 50 μg/g in three areas of the site (Beach, Site Summit, Antenna Hill). This led to remediation work carried out between 1999 and 2004 to remove and/or isolate all PCB-contaminated soil exceeding 50 μg/g and to further remediate parts of the site to <5 μg/g PCBs. In this study, spatial and temporal trends of PCB concentrations in soil, vegetation (Betula glandulosa and Salix spp.), and deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) were investigated over a period of fourteen (1997-2011) years in an effort to track ecosystem recovery following the removal of the PCB point sources. The data collected shows that PCB levels in vegetation samples are approximately four times lower in 2011 than pre-remediation in 1997. Similarly, PCB concentrations in deer mice in 2011 are approximately three times lower than those measured in 1997/98. Spatial trends in vegetation and deer mice continue to demonstrate that areas close to the former point sources of PCBs have higher PCB concentrations than those further away (and higher than background levels) and these residual PCB levels are not likely to decrease in the foreseeable future given the persistent nature of PCBs in general in the environment, and in particular in cold climates.
