Clinical effect of salicylic acid and high dose urea applied according to the standardized New German Formulary]	To determine whether salicylic acid and high dose urea in five different NRF (New German Formulary) formulations have an effect on stratum corneum.
Release from transdermal delivery systems. Application of a new non isothermic method to Trans-Ver-Sal patches.	In this paper a new non isothermic method for the determination of the release drug rate constant (k) from a transdermal delivery system is proposed. The new method was applied to transdermal patches Trans-Ver-Sal. The results obtained prove to be able to release salicylic acid of transdermal system and the effectiveness of the new method propose.
Topical acne drugs: review of clinical properties, systemic exposure, and safety.	This review examines the commonly available topical acne agents and factors that determine their percutaneous absorption. Reported and theoretical adverse effects from systemic exposure are detailed. The topical retinoid class, which includes tretinoin, adapalene and tazarotene, and the topical antibacterials, clindamycin and erythromycin, are regulated by prescription in most countries. Used appropriately, the above-mentioned drugs deliver, at most, miniscule amounts of active ingredient into the circulation. Clear-cut links to systemic toxicity in humans are practically nonexistent, except in the case of topical clindamycin, which has been associated with diarrhea rarely, and there have been 2 cases of pseudomembranous colitis reported. Birth defects have occurred in two patients treated with tretinoin and one patient treated with adapalene, but causation was not proven. Another prescription drug, 20% azelaic acid, is associated with relatively high systemic exposure, which is presumed innocuous because it is a normal dietary constituent whose endogenous levels are not altered by topical use. Benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, sulfur, and sodium sulfacetamide are available in concentrations of 2% or more in over-the-counter acne treatments and some prescription products. All of these agents are known to exhibit some degree of percutaneous absorption. They remain largely unregulated because, other than skin irritation, only local allergic contact dermatitis from benzoyl peroxide in about 2.5% of patients and rare local and systemic hypersensitivity reactions from sodium sulfacetamide have been reported. Salicylism has occurred using methyl salicylate ointments and high concentrations of salicylic acid on widespread areas of hyperkeratotic skin, but there are no known cases resulting from salicylic acid acne products. Caution is advised in special circumstances, such as during childhood, pregnancy, lactation and concomitant therapy with other drugs, because relevant studies are lacking. Animal data support avoidance of many topical agents, particularly known teratogens such as retinoids and salicylic acid, in pregnant women. Salicylate avoidance is advised during lactation, because aspirin use carries the risk of bleeding disorders in nursing infants.
Plantar wart treatment with combination imiquimod and salicylic acid pads.	Treatment of plantar warts is often difficult and may be painful, often employing destructive treatment modalities. We report the successful treatment of a patient with a large plantar wart using Imiquimod 5% cream under occlusion with a 40% salicylic acid pad. This combination treatment modality likely allows successful delivery of Imiquimod through the thick skin on the plantar surface. Once penetrated, an anti-viral state is created by upregulating specific cytokines to eradicate the human papilloma virus (HPV).
Endovascular treatment of chronic mesenteric ischemia: results in 14 patients.	We evaluated immediate and long-term results of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and stent placement to treat stenotic and occluded arteries in patients with chronic mesenteric ischemia. Fourteen patients were treated by 3 exclusive celiac artery (CA) PTAs (2 stentings), 3 cases with both Superior Mesenteric Artery (SMA) and CA angioplasties, and 8 exclusive SMA angioplasties (3 stentings). Eleven patients had atheromatous stenoses with one case of an early onset atheroma in an HIV patient with antiphospholipid syndrome. The other etiologies of mesenteric arterial lesions were Takayashu arteritis (2 cases) and a postradiation stenoses (1 case). Technical success was achieved in all cases. Two major complications were observed: one hematoma and one false aneurysm occurring at the brachial puncture site (14.3%). An immediate clinical success was obtained in all patients. During a follow-up of 1-83 months (mean: 29 months), 11 patients were symptom free; 3 patients had recurrent pain; in one patient with inflammatory syndrome, pain relief was obtained with medical treatment; in 2 patients abdominal pain was due to restenosis 36 and 6 months after PTA, respectively. Restenosis was treated by PTA (postirradiation stenosis), and by surgical bypass (atheromatous stenosis). Percutaneous endovascular techniques are safe and accurate. They are an alternative to surgery in patients with chronic mesenteric ischemia due to short and proximal occlusive lesions of SMA and CA.
Topical tacrolimus ointment combined with 6% salicylic acid gel for plaque psoriasis treatment.	While oral tacrolimus is effective for the treatment of psoriasis, tacrolimus ointment has shown only spotty efficacy in the treatment of plaque psoriasis. The efficacy of tacrolimus ointment for the treatment of facial and intertriginous psoriasis suggests that if tacrolimus penetration can be increased, the ointment could be used for effective treatment of plaque psoriasis.
Salicylic acid-derived poly(anhydride-esters) inhibit bone resorption and formation in vivo.	The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of a novel polymer that biodegrades into salicylic acid (SA) on the healing of critical sized long bone defects. Microspheres of the homopolymer, or a copolymer containing 50% less of the SA, were packed into 5-mm mid-diaphyseal defects in rat femurs. Control animals received collagen sponge implants. After 4 and 8 weeks of implantation, bone healing was evaluated using microradiography and quantitative histomorphometry. Four weeks postsurgery, significantly less new bone was formed in both of the polymer groups (p<0.038). Reduced bone loss was also noted with the polymers at this time, although it was not statistically significant. However, at 8 weeks postsurgery, a statistically significant reduction in bone loss was observed in both of the polymer groups compared with controls (p<0.0072). Both polymers seemed to elicit identical tissue responses because there were no differences detected between the homopolymer and copolymer materials at either time point. These results indicate that locally released SA can significantly reduce both bone loss and bone formation in this animal model.
Cutaneous bioassay of salicylic acid as a keratolytic.	Keratolytic efficacy of topical preparations containing salicylic acid was studied in humans utilizing adhesive tape stripping and quantifying SC removal by protein analysis. In combination with tape stripping, squamometry was used to evaluate the influence of salicylic acid on skin surface scaliness and desquamation. Furthermore, skin barrier perturbation and skin irritancy was recorded and related to the dermatopharmacological effect of the preparations. In contrast to squamometry, tape stripping combined with protein analysis was sensitive in detecting keratolytic effect of salicylic acid within hours of application. Importantly, whereas the pH of the preparations only minimally influenced efficacy, local dermatotoxicity was significantly increased at acidic pH. This indicates that the quest to increase the amount of free, non-dissociated SA is, in fact, counterproductive as the more acidic preparations resulted in skin irritation and barrier disruption.
Effects of topical petrolatum and salicylic acid upon skin photoreaction to UVA.	Various agents which can be used in combination can also interfere with phototherapy. In this study, the effects of topical petrolatum and 20% salicylic acid in petrolatum upon skin photoreaction to UVA were investigated, in an in vivo test. Minimal phototoxic dose (MPD) test was performed on 31 volunteers and the test was repeated with thin (0.1 cc/25 cm(2)) petrolatum, thick (0.3 cc/25 cm(2)) petrolatum, thin 20% salicylic acid in petrolatum, thick 20% salicylic acid in petrolatum and sunscreen. The effect of each agent on MPD was investigated. MPD was increased with thin and thick applications of all agents. Also, MPD was increased with 20% salicylic acid in petrolatum when compared with pure petrolatum, in the same thickness. The application of petrolatum and salicylic acid in petrolatum just before PUVA therapy is not recommended because of their blocking effects.
Production of antioxidant compounds by culture of Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer hairy roots: I. Enhanced production of secondary metabolite in hairy root cultures by elicitation.	Ginseng (Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer) hairy root cultures, established by infecting ginseng root discs with Agrobacterium rhizogenes, were used for secondary metabolite production. In this study, several elicitors [salicylic acid (SA), acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), yeast elicitor, and bacterial elicitor] were used to improve the productivity of useful metabolite in P. ginseng hairy root cultures. In SA elicitation, total ginseng saponin content increased slightly at lower elicitor dosages (0.1 to 0.5 mM). Also, the use of ASA as an elicitor resulted in the inhibition of biomass growth and an increase in total ginseng saponin content at every elicitor dosage (0.1 to 1.0 mM) by about 1.1 times. With yeast elicitor addition, hairy root growth was inhibited about 0.8-fold on a dry weight basis compared to the control, but total ginseng saponin content increased by about 1.17 times when compared to the control. The bacterial elicitor showed a slight inhibition of biomass growth, but total ginseng saponin content increased by about 1.23 times upon the addition of 1 mL.
Polyvinyl alcohol--gelatin patches of salicylic acid: preparation, characterization and drug release studies.	Polyvinyl alcohol-gelatin patches were developed and salicylic acid was incorporated at different stages of preparation of the patches. The patches were characterized by Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction (XRD), differential scanning calorimetry, tensile strength test, and scanning electron microscopy. The release patterns of the drug from the patches were also studied. The FTIR spectra of the blank patch indicated complete esterification of the free carboxylic groups of gelatin. The XRD studies indicated a crystalline form of the drug entrapped in the patches. Release of the drug from the patches followed Higuchian/Fickian kinetics indicating a diffusion-controlled release process.
Treatment of palmoplantar warts with a diphencyprone and salicylic acid ointment.	We report on 50 consecutive suitable patients with one or more palmoplantar warts who were treated with a patient-applied ointment comprising 0.1% diphencyprone and 15% salicylic acid in white soft paraffin. All patients sensitized to diphencyprone were followed up clinically and assessed by patient questionnaire. The intention to treat success rate in this series was 88%. The time to wart clearance ranged from less than 4 weeks to 4 months. In our patient group, 90% rated their treatment as 'excellent' or 'good', whereas 10% stated that the reaction induced by diphencyprone was 'too severe'. Our results are compared with those previously published using diphencyprone in the treatment of palmoplantar warts.
Characterization of NtChitIV, a class IV chitinase induced by beta-1,3-, 1,6-glucan elicitor from Alternaria alternata 102: Antagonistic effect of salicylic acid and methyl jasmonate on the induction of NtChitIV.	Tobacco BY-2 class IV chitinases (TBC-1, TBC-3) were rapidly and transiently induced by the beta-1,3-, 1,6-glucan elicitor from Alternaria alternata 102 (AaGlucan). The full-length cDNA and 5'-flanking region of a gene encoding class IV chitinases were isolated on the basis of the amino acid sequence of TBC-1. Sequence analysis indicated that NtChitIV encoded TBC-1, TBC-3, or both. Since purified TBC-1 and TBC-3 from BY-2 cells lack a chitin binding domain in the N-terminal region, these enzymes suggested to be derived from NtChitIV by post-translational proteolytic processing. The transcripts of NtChitIV accumulated rapidly within 1h after treatment with AaGlucan. Accumulation was maximal 3h after treatment. Reporter gene assays were used to analyze the promoter regions involved in the transcriptional control of NtChitIV, and these assays revealed that the 1.89-kb NtChitIV promoter was activated by AaGlucan but not by salicylic acid (SA) or methyl jasmonate (MeJA). The AaGlucan-induced transcriptional activation via 1.89-kb NtChitIV promoter was attenuated by pretreatment with SA or MeJA. These results suggest that NtChitIV expression is particularly induced by AaGlucan and that the AaGlucan-dependent signaling pathway is different from the SA- and MeJA-dependent signaling pathways.
Evaluation of skin penetration of topically applied drugs in humans by cutaneous microdialysis: acyclovir vs. salicylic acid.	Cutaneous drug application is used for both local drug therapy and systemic treatment. For both types of treatment, the drug concentration profile in, and transport across, the skin is important. To evaluate skin penetration of topically-applied drugs we recently used cutaneous microdialysis. The aim of this study was the use of this method for studying acyclovir and salicylic acid.
Formulation of transdermal drug delivery system: matrix type, and selection of polymer- their evaluation.	Goatskin is used instead of rat-skin to study the permeation and the results are compared. The percentage of permeation is double in goatskin. We have five different oils to study, how they influence permeation and all of them have improved permeation when used on goatskin. To analyze further two parameters-percentage and rate of permeation are used. When these five oils are used with salicyclic acid on goatskin the following results are obtained. The percentage of permeation is as follows [Caraway oil (48%) > Lemon oil (36%) > Peppermint oil (29%) > Lemon Grass oil (22%) > Citronella oil (19%)]. The caraway oil has the highest percentage of permeation whereas citronella oil has the lowest percentage of permeation. Caraway oil has three times more permeation than that of citronella oil. The selection of polymer for the formulation of TDDS was done basing on a comparative study of five polymers and their various combinations using such parameters as uniformity of weight, thickness and content and percentage and rate of diffusion counted. Results show that methylcellulose and hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose record more control release of salicyclic acid than the other polymers. Except HPMC all other polymers follow zero order kinematics. Basing on this experimental evidence transdermal patch of salicyclic acid was formed with HPMC, MC polymer incombination with caraway oil has permeating enhancer and evaluated using goatskin. Comparative study shows that there is two fold increases in the percentage of permeation.
Topical zinc oxide vs. salicylic acid-lactic acid combination in the treatment of warts.	Warts are a common dermatologic problem. Treatment is painful, prolonged, and can cause scarring.
Evaluation of Bensal HP for the treatment of diabetic foot ulcers.	The extract of oak bark (QRB7) has been used for years as a topical medication with success. QRB7 is the proprietary oak bark extract in Bensal HP. It is indicated as an external treatment for the inflammation and irritation associated with many common forms of dermatitis, including certain eczematoid conditions. These conditions include complications associated with pyodermas, and in the treatment of insect bites, burns, and fungal infections.
Iontophoretic transport of charged macromolecules across human sclera.	The mechanisms of transscleral iontophoresis have been investigated previously with small molecules in rabbit sclera. The objective of the present study was to examine transscleral iontophoretic transport of charged macromolecules across excised human sclera. Passive and 2mA iontophoretic transport experiments were conducted in side-by-side diffusion cells with human sclera. The effects of iontophoresis upon transscleral transport of model permeants bovine serum albumin (BSA) and polystyrene sulfonic acid (PSS) as well as a model drug bevacizumab (BEV) were determined. Passive and iontophoretic transport experiments of tetraethylammonium (TEA) and salicylic acid (SA) and passive transport experiments of the macromolecules served as the controls. The results of iontophoresis enhanced transport of TEA and SA across human sclera were consistent with those in a previous rabbit sclera study. For the iontophoretic transport of macromolecules BSA and BEV, higher iontophoretic fluxes were observed in anodal iontophoresis as compared to passive and cathodal iontophoresis. This suggests the importance of electroosmosis. For the polyelectrolyte PSS, higher iontophoretic flux was observed in cathodal iontophoresis compared to anodal iontophoresis. Both electroosmosis and electrophoresis affected iontophoretic fluxes of the macromolecules; the relative contributions of electroosmosis and electrophoresis were a function of molecular size and charge of the macromolecules.
A broad-spectrum, efficient and nontransgenic approach to control plant viruses by application of salicylic acid and jasmonic acid.	Plant viruses cause many diseases that lead to significant economic losses. However, most of the approaches to control plant viruses, including transgenic processes or drugs are plant-species-limited or virus-species-limited, and not very effective. We introduce an application of jasmonic acid (JA) and salicylic acid (SA), a broad-spectrum, efficient and nontransgenic method, to improve plant resistance to RNA viruses. Applying 0.06 mM JA and then 0.1 mM SA 24 h later, enhanced resistance to Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV), Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) and Turnip crinkle virus (TCV) in Arabidopsis, tobacco, tomato and hot pepper. The inhibition efficiency to virus replication usually achieved up to 80-90%. The putative molecular mechanism was investigated. Some possible factors affecting the synergism of JA and SA have been defined, including WRKY53, WRKY70, PDF1.2, MPK4, MPK2, MPK3, MPK5, MPK12, MPK14, MKK1, MKK2, and MKK6. All genes involving in the synergism of JA and SA were investigated. This approach is safe to human beings and environmentally friendly and shows potential as a strong tool for crop protection against plant viruses.
Salicylic acid-derived poly(anhydride-ester) electrospun fibers designed for regenerating the peripheral nervous system.	Continuous biomaterial advances and the regenerating potential of the adult human peripheral nervous system offer great promise for restoring full function to innervated tissue following traumatic injury via synthetic nerve guidance conduits (NGCs). To most effectively facilitate nerve regeneration, a tissue engineering scaffold within a conduit must be similar to the linear microenvironment of the healthy nerve. To mimic the native nerve structure, aligned poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid)/bioactive polyanhydride fibrous substrates were fabricated through optimized electrospinning parameters with diameters of 600 ± 200 nm. Scanning electron microscopy images show fibers with a high degree of alignment. Schwann cells and dissociated rat dorsal root ganglia demonstrated elongated and healthy proliferation in a direction parallel to orientated electrospun fibers with significantly longer Schwann cell process length and neurite outgrowth when compared to randomly orientated fibers. Results suggest that an aligned polyanhydride fiber mat holds tremendous promise as a supplement scaffold for the interior of a degradable polymer NGC. Bioactive salicylic acid-based polyanhydride fibers are not limited to nerve regeneration and offer exciting promise for a wide variety of biomedical applications.
Cantharidin-podophylotoxin-salicylic acid versus cryotherapy in the treatment of plantar warts: a randomized prospective study.	Plantar warts are refractory to any form of treatment. High cure rates have been reported with a topical proprietary formulation consisting of 1% cantharidin, 5% podophyllotoxin and 30% salicylic acid (CPS). However, no data exists comparing the efficacy of this formulation with another treatment. Cryotherapy is a method that is also widely used in the treatment of plantar warts. Likewise, there is no evidence that it is more effective than any topical treatment.
Recurrence rates and patient assessed outcomes of 0.5% 5-fluorouracil in combination with salicylic acid treating actinic keratoses.	Actinic keratoses (AK) have been classified as early in situ squamous cell carcinomas and should be treated.
Drug distribution in wet granulation: foam versus spray.	Foam granulation technology is a new wet granulation approach for pharmaceutical formulations. This study evaluates the performance of foam and spray granulation in achieving uniform drug distribution using a model formulation. To observe wetting and nuclei formation, single drop/foam penetration experiments were performed on a static powder bed comprised of varying compositions of hydrophilic/hydrophobic glass ballotini, and hydrophilic lactose/hydrophobic salicylic acid respectively. High shear granulation experiments were performed in a 5L mixer using varying compositions of hydrophilic lactose and hydrophobic salicylic acid. Four percent hydroxylpropyl methylcellulose (HPMC) solution was delivered at 90 g/min as either a foam (92% FQ) or an atomized spray whilst recording impeller power consumption. After drying, the granule size distribution was measured and the granule composition was estimated using gravimetric filtration in methanol. Foam penetration was less dependent on the powder hydrophobicity compared to drop penetration. For glass ballotini powder mixtures, foam induced nucleation created nuclei with relatively uniform structure and size regardless of the powder hydrophobicity. For salicylic acid and lactose mixtures, increasing the proportion of salicylic acid reduced the nuclei granule size for both foam and drop binder addition. The granule drug distribution was not significantly affected by the binder addition method. Processing conditions, including liquid binder amount, impeller speed, wet massing, and the wettability properties of the formulation were the dominant factors for delivering homogeneous granules. The study reveals that foam and spray granulation involve different nucleation mechanisms - spray tends to incur early liquid penetration whereas foam granulation operates well in mechanical dispersion. 
Comparative study of the effect of 50% pyruvic and 30% salicylic peels on the skin lipid film in patients with acne vulgaris.	Pyruvic (alfa-keto acid) and salicylic (beta-hydroxy acid) acids are superficial peels frequently used in patients with acne vulgaris.
Interaction of salicylic acid with verrucae assessed by FT-Raman spectroscopy.	FT-Raman spectroscopy has been used to investigate treated verrucae (warts from the sole of the foot) with a local application of a salicylic acid paint. Differences in the molecular structure of the stratum corneum across the verruca sample were observed, and by comparison with normal and hyperkeratotic skin it was concluded that the tissue around the edges of the verrucae was typically hyperkeratotic skin. In the centre of the verruca, the molecular structure of the skin was altered showing evidence of the interaction with salicylic acid. Salicylic acid was not observed in its characteristic dimerised acid structure, but spectroscopic evidence suggested that fission of the intermolecular H-bonding essentially cleaved the dimer. Observed changes in the v(CCO) stretching mode of the carboxyl and hydroxyl groups indicate the inter H-bonds have broken. These spectral changes are believed to be more consistent with salicylic acid bonding within the human papillomavirus-containing verruca tissue rather than simple acid dissociation upon dissolution in water within the tissue. No evidence for the presence of the other paint components, lactic acid and flexible collodion, was found in the verrucae spectra. This Raman approach may help to elucidate the molecular basis for therapeutic agents interacting with diseased skin.
