Genetic structure of Cenococcum geophilum populations in primary successional volcanic deserts on Mount Fuji as revealed by microsatellite markers.	Polymorphic simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers were used to investigate the genetic structure in a Cenococcum geophilum population associated with Salix reinii in an early successional volcanic desert at Gotenba, on the south-eastern slope of Mount Fuji in Japan, and in three other populations associated with the same host at more developed sites on the mountain, one at Fujinomiya and two at Subashiri. The genotype richness of C. geophilum tended to be higher in more developed vegetation patches as well as in more developed sites, suggesting that genotype richness increased with advanced succession because new genotypes might have been introduced into these sites over time. High genotypic similarity was observed between the Gotenba and Fujinomiya populations but not between the Gotenba and Subashiri populations, suggesting that C. geophilum genotypes in Gotenba were introduced from the direction of Fujinomiya. Genotypes in the Gotenba population were clearly distinguishable into two groups. The absence of any intermediate genotype suggests the absence of frequent recombination in this C. geophilum population associated with early successional vegetation.
Mycorrhizal associations in woody plant species at the Mt. Usu volcano, Japan.	We investigated the association between ectomycorrhizal (ECM) and arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi and pioneer woody plant species in areas devastated by the eruption of Mt. Usu, Japan, in 2000. We observed eight woody plant species at the research site, most of which were associated with ECM and/or AM fungi. In particular, dominant woody plant species Populus maximowiczii, Salix hultenii var. angustifolia and Salix sachalinensis were consistently associated with ECM fungi and erratically associated with AM fungi. We found one to six morphotypes in the roots of each ECM host and, on average, two in the roots of each seedling, indicating low ECM fungal diversity. ECM colonization ranged from 17 to 42% of root tips. Using morphotyping and molecular analyses, 15 ECM fungi were identified. ECM fungi differed greatly between hosts. However, Laccaria amethystea, Hebeloma mesophaeum, Thelephora terrestris and other Thelephoraceae had high relative colonization, constituting the majority of the ECM colonization in the roots of each plant species. These ECM fungi may be important for the establishment of pioneer woody plant species and further revegetation at Mt. Usu volcano.
