Immunohistochemical and fluorescent microscopic study of histogenesis of salivary mucoepidermoid carcinoma.	The purpose of the present investigation was to study the histogenesis of the mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the salivary glands. Eleven cases of mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the minor salivary glands and five of the major glands were extensively studied employing immunohistochemical and fluorescent microscopic techniques. Both the intermediate cells and the duct cells showed a rather similar pattern of reactivity for vimentin, actin and EMA. Also, the intermediate cells and the myoepithelial cells showed a similar reaction pattern for keratin and UGA-1. The intermediate, myoepithelial and duct cells shared a similar reaction pattern for desmin, myosin, CEA, and S-100 protein. However, the rest of the tumor markers studied (AFP, PNA and WGA) were found to be non contributary. We also found that the intermediate and to some extent the epidermoid tumor cells showed a positive reaction with Azophloxine GA, which is a selective stain for myoepithelial cells in the normal glands. Based on these findings, the duct cells, the myoepithelial cell in the normal glands and the intermediate cells of the mucoepidermoid carcinoma share certain similar characteristics. The intermediate cells may actually be a mixed population, some having characteristics of the myopithelial cells and others of duct cells. These findings are relevant to the possible role of the intermediate cell in the histogenesis of the mucoepidermoid carcinoma.
Heterogeneity of keratin expression in epithelial tumor cells of adenolymphoma in paraffin sections.	Immunohistochemical expressions of keratin polypeptides detected by monoclonal antibodies were described in tumor cells of adenolymphoma, and the possibility of intercalated duct and ductal basal cells in the salivary glands being the progenitors was discussed. Basal cells in the tumor showed positive staining for keratin nos. 8, 13, 16, 18 and 19 detecting for monoclonal keratin antibodies (PKK 1, K 4.62, K 8.12, K 8.13), columnar tumor cells displayed strongly positive reactions with RPN 1164 and K4.62 suggesting keratin nos. 8 and 19. Great heterogeneity of distribution for keratin polypeptides was displayed by epithelial cells of adenolymphoma. Intercalated duct cells of normal salivary glands reacted with RPN 1164, RPN 1165, K 4.62 and K 8.13 monoclonal antibodies, which indicates the presence of keratins 8 and 19; and ductal basal cells reacted with PKK 1, K 4.62 and K 8.12, suggesting nos. 8, 13, 16, 18 and 19 keratins. Distribution of involucrin was variable in tumor epithelium of adenolymphoma, and was negative in the normal gland. The immunohistochemical distribution of keratin types between basal tumor cells of adenolymphoma and ductal basal cells of the normal salivary gland was compared.
Different contents of glycosaminoglycans in a human neoplastic salivary duct cell line and its subclone with a myoepithelial phenotype.	The glycosaminoglycans (GAG) biosynthesized by a neoplastic human salivary duct cell line, HSGc, and by its nontumorigenic subclone, HSGc-E1, having a myoepithelial-like phenotype, were examined by incorporation of [3H]-acetate into GAG. The rate of GAG radiolabeling in HSGc-E1 was significantly greater than that in HSGc. The radiolabeled GAG recovered from HSGc-E1 showed a distribution of 22-32% in the cells and 68-78% secreted into the medium, while the amounts of GAG in the cells and medium of HSGc were equal. Two-dimensional electrophoresis of GAG extracted from the cells demonstrated that HSGc-E1 contained a much greater amount of heparan sulfate (HS, 53.5% of total), while HSGc synthesized hyaluronic acid (HA, 17.5%), HS 38.8%, chondroitin sulfate (Ch-S, 27.6%) and dermatan sulfate (DS, 16.1%). Moreover, treatment of HSGc with sodium butyrate or dibutyryl cyclic AMP (each is a potent inducer of differentiation to myoepithelial-like cells) strongly enhanced GAG synthesis, while dexamethasone (an inducer of differentiation to a more functional duct epithelium) did not stimulate GAG synthesis. These findings suggest that biosynthetic changes in the GAG content of neoplastic salivary cells are associated with their myoepithelial differentiation.
Establishment of a cell line producing basement membrane components from an adenoid cystic carcinoma of the human salivary gland.	A new cell line has been established from an adenoid cystic carcinoma arising in the submandibular gland of a 63-year-old woman. The cultured epithelial-like cells grew vigorously and adhered together to form a sheet. Immunohistochemical stainings for type IV collagen, laminin and fibronectin were clearly positive in the intercellular matrix and on the surface of the culture cells. Chondroitin 6-sulfate proteoglycan and heparan sulfate were also detected. Ultrastructural studies showed that the cells had abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum and a well-developed Golgi apparatus. Rough endoplasmic reticulum near the cell surface was markedly dilated, and contained material of low electron density. This cell line would be useful for biological and biochemical studies on the mechanisms by which the stromal component is formed.
Induction of cells with a chondrocyte-like phenotype by treatment with 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 in a human salivary acinar cell line.	A clonal cell with an acinar cell phenotype, which was induced by 5-azacytidine treatment of a neoplastic human salivary intercalated duct cell line, was cultivated in the presence of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. Morphological changes occurred; large cells that were polygonal or round in shape and had numerous vacuoles in their cytoplasm appeared in the treated cells, whereas the same concentration of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 did not affect the morphology of the parental cells. Major alterations, such as expression of type II collagen, alpha and beta chains of S-100 protein, and sulfated proteoglycans, were observed in these cells with a phenotype similar to chondrocytes. After the removal of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 from the culture, the treated cells returned rapidly to the phenotype of the untreated cells. These findings indicate that the reversible differentiation into chondrocyte-like cells of a human salivary acinar cell line occurs in growth medium containing 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.
Epithelial-myoepithelial duct carcinoma of salivary glands: a follow-up and cytophotometric study of 21 cases.	The Salivary Gland Registry provided 21 cases of epithelial-myoepithelial duct carcinoma of salivary glands from 1965-1980 which were evaluated retrospectively for clinical follow-up and cytophotometric data; 81% were localized in the major, 19% in the minor salivary glands. The male:female ratio was 1:1.1, 10 patients (47.6%) being men and 11 (52.4%) women. The youngest patient was 27, the oldest 91 y old. The mean age was 59.3 y (overall), 57.9 y (women) and 61.0 (men). The clinical course was characterized by lymph node metastases present at initial diagnosis and local recurrences in 23.5%. No patient died of the tumor. In 12 cases, cytochemical assessment of nuclear DNA by means of single cell scanning cytophotometry yielded diploid histograms. According to clinical and cytophotometrical data, epithelial-myoepithelial duct carcinoma of salivary glands can be regarded as a proper tumor entity of low grade malignancy.
Immunohistochemical distribution of human epidermal growth factor in salivary gland tumours.	Immunohistochemical identification of human epidermal growth factor (hEGF) was carried out in a total of 152 cases of salivary gland tumours, consisting 107 pleomorphic adenomas and their variants, 13 adenolymphomas and 32 adenoid cystic carcinomas. A high percentage of pleomorphic adenomas revealed markedly positive hEGF staining of the luminal surface cells of tubuloductal structures and of modified or neoplastic myoepithelial cells. Clear cells of the tumour showed various reactivities from very slight to strong. Eosinophilic epithelial cells of adenolymphoma gave a positive reaction for hEGF in all the cases, whereas most adenoid cystic adenoma lacked hEGF staining; however some cases showed positive staining of the tumour cells. The immunohistochemical detection of hEGF in most salivary gland tumours suggests this factor to be a possible new marker of salivary glands tumours, and to have a biological role in tumour proliferation.
Steroid hormone receptors in human salivary gland tumours.	Major salivary gland tumours were studied for the presence of hormone receptors for oestrogen and progesterone. Of the eight salivary gland tumours exhibiting varied histology, none showed high affinity receptors for oestrogen or progesterone. Salivary tissue from four patients with non-neoplastic salivary gland disease was also studied and found not to contain high affinity receptor sites. The absence of hormone receptors in these glands suggests that such tumours are not dependent on endocrine function.
Immunocytochemical detection of carcinoembryonic antigen in salivary gland tumors.	The immunoperoxidase method was applied for carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) detection in biopsy specimens of salivary gland tumors. 9 out of 10 adenoidcystic carcinomas revealed a strong and abundant reaction in tumoral glands. 10 other specimens of pleomorphic adenomas showed weak staining in the areas of epithelial proliferation. Normal glands adjacent to the tumor mass revealed a weak but constant reaction on the luminal border. As in other types of gland tumor, the quantitative estimation of CEA production by salivary gland tumors may be useful in the monitoring of recurrencies.
Localization of S-100 protein and glial fibrillary acidic protein-related antigen in pleomorphic adenoma of the salivary glands.	Pleomorphic adenoma of the salivary glands was studied by the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method and Ouchterlony's double diffusion for the presence of so-called nervous system-specific proteins, S-100 protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and astroprotein. Positive immunostaining for S-100 protein was observed in tumor cells of epithelial, myxomatous, and chondroid areas. An immunodiffusion test confirmed its presence in the tumor. Normal salivary glands were also stained with anti-S-100 serum, but the reaction was less intense than that of tumor. Specific immunostaining for GFAP and astroprotein was found in a small number of cells of myxomatous and chondroid areas and occasionally in cells in epithelial areas. An immunodiffusion test suggests that the GFAP-related antigen of the pleomorphic adenoma showing a minor heterogeneity of antigenic determinants is almost identical with GFAP. Normal salivary glands did not stain with GFAP or astroprotein antisera, nor did they react with anti-GFAP serum by immunodiffusion. Thus, the S-100 protein and GFAP-related antigen may be actively synthesized in adenoma cells during the course of tumor development. In addition, the GFAP-related antigen is considered to be a tumor-associated antigen of pleomorphic adenoma of the salivary glands.
