Comparison of blood, bone marrow aspirate, stool and urine cultures in the diagnosis of enteric fever.	A total of 288 specimens made up of 84 specimens each of blood, stool, urine and 36 specimens of bone marrow aspirates were collected from enteric fever patients. The blood specimen was used for cultural diagnosis and malaria parasite (MP) test, while serum from the blood was screened by Widal test. The remaining specimens (bone marrow aspirate, stool and urine) were only used for cultural diagnosis, but their cultural diagnostic sensitivity were only calculated from the patients whose Widal tests were positive. The widal test showed that 21(25%) had significant reciprocal titre levels of > 80 and > 160 for O and H antigens respectively. Malaria parasites test also had 23(37.4%) cases positive with 1(4.4%) and 22(95.7%) of them positive and negative by widal test respectively. Stool, blood and bone marrow aspirate were 33%, 28.6% and 38.1% sensitive respectively, while the diagnostic sensitivity of urine was zero. In the diagnosis of enteric fever, it is suggested that the presumptive serology test (Widal) be carried out along with cultures from bone marrow aspirate and stool where the former is affordable and available. Malaria parasite microscopy should also be done because majority of the suspected enteric fevers may actually only be malaria fever in an environment like Nigeria which is endemic for the two diseases (malaria and typhoid fever).
Lipsch端tz genital ulceration: a rare manifestation of paratyphoid fever.	In 1913, a distinctive clinical entity of acute genital ulcer occurring in an adolescent girl with a non-venereal infectious aetiology was described by Lipsch端tz. Since the initial description, several aetiologies have been discussed, and among them, paratyphoid fever is very uncommon. After her return from a trip, a 25-year-old girl developed high fever and diarrhoea. Examination of the vulva revealed a genital ulcer. The rest of the general examination was normal. Blood cultures identified Salmonella paratyphi A, and a diagnosis of Lipsch端tz's ulcer associated with paratyphoid fever was made. Bacteriaemia was then treated with antibiotics and the vulvar ulceration rapidly disappeared. Lipsch端tz described a distinctive clinical entity of acute genital ulcers occurring in adolescents. To our knowledge, we report herein the second case associated with proved paratyphoid fever. The authors thus recommend that typhoid or paratyphoid fever should be included in the differential diagnosis of genital ulcerations.
Mixed Salmonella infection: case report and review of the literature.	Mixed infection with multiple Salmonella serotypes in the same patient is an unusual finding. We present a case of enteric fever in which both Salmonella Typhi and Salmonella Paratyphi A were isolated from the blood of a patient traveling from India.
Microbial evaluation of foodservice surfaces in Texas child-care centers.	Children under the age of 5 years experience a disproportionately high rate of bacterial enteric infections. Research has shown a relationship between inadequate child-care center sanitation and illnesses in children. This cross-sectional study assessed the sanitation levels of foodservice surfaces in a sample of 36 Texas child-care centers via recovery and identification of selected enteric gram-negative bacteria. The centers in this study had the capacity to care for 50 to 332 children and represented diverse socioeconomic and racial profiles. Forty-one percent (68 of 167) of total swab samples collected tested positive for bacteria. Twenty-seven different types of bacteria were identified from positive swab samples. Most of the bacteria found are considered opportunistic pathogens, which can pose serious health risks to those with compromised immune systems, such as young children. Two types of bacteria recovered, Salmonella paratyphi A and Klebsiella pneumonia, are considered nonopportunistic and can infect healthy individuals. The most common areas of bacterial contamination were the sink drain area of the dishwashing sink, the hand-washing sink faucet handles, the handle of the garbage can lid, and cutting boards. It is vital for child-care staff to wash their hands often and disinfect all surfaces, because even surfaces that appear clean can harbor microorganisms.
Failure of oral antibiotic therapy, including azithromycin, in the treatment of a recurrent breast abscess caused by Salmonella enterica serotype Paratyphi A.	We report a case of recurrent, multifocal Salmonella enterica serotype Paratyphi A breast abscesses, resistant to ciprofloxacin, which relapsed despite surgery, aspiration and multiple courses of antibiotics, including co-trimoxazole and azithromycin. The patient was cured after  a prolonged course of intravenous ceftriaxone.
Isolation of Salmonella paratyphi A from thyroid abscess--a case report.	S. paratyphi A isolated from aberrant site i.e. thyroid abscess which is an unusual manifestation of focal salmonella infection. It is reported for its rare complications.
Evaluation of blood clot cultures for isolation of Salmonella typhi, Salmonella paratyphi-A, and Brucella melitensis.	Two types of clot culture, one with taurocholate-streptokinase and the other with bile as a culture medium, and two conventional cultures of whole blood were evaluated in parallel in an area where typhoid fever and brucellosis are endemic. Each of the four systems contained 5 ml of blood or the clot derived from 5 ml of blood and sufficient broth to yield a 1:11 dilution of the specimen. Of 542 patients studied, Salmonella paratyphi-A was isolated from 61, S. typhi from 46, and Brucella melitensis from 30. The two clot cultures yielded the salmonellae equally well; both were superior to whole blood cultured in Trypticase soy broth (P less than 0.02) but not to whole blood cultured in bile (P greater than 0.05). Only two systems were successful for isolation of B. melitensis. Blood-Trypticase soy broth identified 28 (93%), and clot-streptokinase cultures identified 21 (70%) (P greater than 0.05). The data indicate that use of clots per se offers no advantage in sensitivity over procedures which use whole blood. Nonetheless, they are excellent for isolation of enteric fever salmonellae and can be performed with clots left over after serum is removed for serological, biochemical, or other tests.
Short course ciprofloxacin therapy for enteric fever.	A short course of ciprofloxacin, 750 mgm b.i.d. for 7 days was found to be effective in the treatment of enteric fever in 21 hospitalized patients with S.typhi (18) and S.paratyphi A(3). Median time for fever response was 3 days. All isolates were susceptible to ciprofloxacin (MIC 0.0078-0.062 mcgm/ml). The mean serum peak and trough levels were 5.4 and 1.6 mcgm/ml respectively. Stool cultures were free of Salmonellae on follow up (11-24 weeks). Two developed recurrence of paratyphoid fever, 17 days and 4 months after therapy.
