Infection by Parvicapsula sp. (Myxozoa) is associated with mortality in sea-caged Atlantic salmon Salmo salar in northern Norway.	In March 2002, 3 seawater farms in northern Norway experienced high mortality among Atlantic salmon postsmolts. A myxosporean parasite assigned to the genus Parvicapsula was detected in the pseudobranchs of diseased fish, and extensive destruction of this organ was observed. The parasite was also found in the gills, liver and kidney of some fish. Based on host species, spore morphology, and the unusual site preference of the parasite, it is likely that it represents a hitherto undescribed species. The diseased fish had been transferred to seawater in September 2001, and it is believed that the infection took place shortly after exposure to seawater. The source of infection is unknown.
Parasite fauna of the landlocked Atlantic salmon Salmo salar L. in the basin of Namsen river]	The 26 specimens of the landlocked Atlantic salmon Salmo salar L. from Namsen river and its tributary Melingselva river (central Norway) were studied by the method of complete parasitological examination in the period of 1997-1998. The 15 parasite species have been recovered. Ration of parasite with a direct and complex cycle is approximately equal, 6 and 9 respectively. Larval stages of parasites predominate among the parasites with a complex cycle. The parasite fauna fond in the landlocked Atlantic salmon is most similar to that in youngsters of the lake salmon (Salmo salar morpha sebago Girard) and the migrating Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.).
Randomized clinical trial to investigate the effectiveness of teflubenzuron for treating sea lice on Atlantic salmon.	A double-blind, randomized control clinical trial was performed to investigate the effectiveness of teflubenzuron in controlling sea lice Lepeophtheirus salmonis on farmed Atlantic salmon Salmo salar. A total of 40 sea cages from 3 commercial cage sites in Atlantic Canada were used in this Good Clinical Practice (GCP) trial. The teflubenzuron was administered in the feed at a dosage of 10 mg kg(-1) biomass d(-1) for 7 d. Medicated and control cages were matched by site, cage size, and pre-treatment mean lice counts using cages as the unit of concern. Post-treatment lice counts and staging of developmental stages were performed at 1 and 2 wk after the end of treatment. Chalimus stages in medicated cages were significantly lower than in control cages at 1 wk (79% reduction in mean lice counts, p < 0.001), and at 2 wk (53% reduction, p < 0.001). Mobile (pre-adult and adult) stages were also significantly reduced in medicated cages at 1 wk (69% reduction, p < 0.01), and at 2 wk (40% reduction, p < 0.01) post-treatment, respectively. Teflubenzuron was proven effective for reducing lice burdens on salmon despite the low parasite levels experienced during the trial and the recruitment of lice from the untreated cages. The use of cage as the unit of concern was an important design component of this trial.
Historical control clinical trial to assess the effectiveness of teflubenzuron for treating sea lice on Atlantic salmon.	A historical control clinical trial was performed to assess the effectiveness of teflubenzuron in controlling sea lice Lepeoptheirus salmonis burdens on farmed Atlantic salmon Salmo salar over time. The study site comprised 9 sea cages, all of which were treated. The teflubenzuron was administered in the feed, at a dosage of 10 mg kg(-1) biomass d(-1), over a treatment period of 7 d. At 1 wk post-treatment, sea lice chalimus and mobile stages were reduced by 92 and 74% (both p < 0.001), respectively. At 2 wk post-treatment, chalimus stages were reduced by 41% and mobile stages 61% (both p < 0.001) compared to pre-treatment levels. At 3 wk post-treatment, chalimus stages were still 36% (p < 0.001) lower than pre-treatment levels, but mobile stages had increased to above pre-treatment levels. Our results show that the effects of teflubenzuron are limited to a 3 wk duration, but that with appropriate management, farms could benefit from these reduced lice burdens for longer periods.
Experimental infections of the monogenean Gyrodactylus turnbulli indicate that it is not a strict specialist.	Parasites represent a threat to endangered fish species, particularly when the parasite can host switch and the new host is vulnerable. If the parasite is highly host specific then successful host switching should be a rare occurrence; however, the host range of many parasites which are assumed to be specialists has never been tested. This includes the monogenean Gyrodactylus turnbulli, a well-studied ectoparasite found caudally on its known host, the guppy, Poecilia reticulata. In this study, we monitored parasite establishment and reproduction on a range of poeciliids and more distantly related fish. Individually maintained fish were experimentally infected with a single parasite and monitored daily to establish whether G. turnbulli could survive and reproduce on other fish species. Gyrodactylus turnbulli can infect a wider range of hosts than previously considered, highlighting the fact that host specificity can never be assumed unless experimentally tested. Our findings also have significant implications for parasite transmission to novel hosts and provide further insight into the evolutionary origins of this ubiquitous group of fish pathogens. Previous molecular evidence indicates that host switching is the key mechanism for speciation within the genus Gyrodactylus. Until recently, most Gyrodactylus spp. were assumed to be narrowly host specific. However, our findings suggest that even so-called specialist species, such as G. turnbulli, may represent a threat to vulnerable fish stocks. In view of the potential importance of host switching under artificial conditions, we propose to describe this as 'artificial ecological transfer' as opposed to 'natural ecological transfer', host switching under natural conditions.
Geographic risk factors for inter-river dispersal of Gyrodactylus salaris in fjord systems in Norway.	Gyrodactylus salaris has been recorded in 46 Norwegian rivers since 1975 and is considered a threat to Atlantic salmon stocks. The primary introductions of G. salaris (primary infected rivers) have been accounted for by specific events, as reported in the literature. The parasite has subsequently dispersed to adjacent localities (secondary infected rivers). The objective of this paper is to address the occurrence of secondary infections by examining the hypothesis of inter-river dispersal of G. salaris. A dispersal model for the secondary river infections via migrating infected fish is proposed. Due to the limited tolerance of G. salaris to salinity, both freshwater inflow to dispersal pathways and dispersal distance were expected to influence the probability of inter-river dispersal. Eighteen rivers were categorised as primary infected rivers, 28 as secondary infected rivers, and 54 as rivers at risk. Four risk factors: the log10 freshwater inflow; the dispersal distance; the time at risk; and the salmon harvest were combined in a multi-variable logistic regression model of the probability of secondary infection. The final multi-variable model included log10 freshwater inflow (Wald chi-square = 9.93) and dispersal distance (Wald chi-square = 6.48). Receiver operating characteristic analyses of the final model supported freshwater inflow as a strong predictor of G. salaris infection status. The strong influence of the freshwater inflow on the probability of secondary infection adds further support to the hypothesis of inter-river dispersal of G. salaris through fjords.
Parasite fauna of young landlocked salmon (Salmo salar m. Sebago girard) in the Pista River (the White Sea Basin)]	A native population of landlocked salmon of the Pista River was investigated in 2000-2002. Adult salmon in Pista River has smallest size among other populations of landlocked salmon in Karelia. Data on the biology and parasite fauna of young salmon are presented. The presence of local salmon populations in lakes of the river system is apparently one of the mechanisms keeping the magnitude of population. The presence of Gyrodactylus salaris, a harmful parasite of the young landlocked salmon, is established in this territory for the first time. This monogenean species is believed to have been introduced into the Pista River via stocking from Finland.
Isolation and culture of Sphaerothecum destruens from Sunbleak (Leucaspius delineatus) in the UK and pathogenicity experiments in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar).	The sunbleak (Leucaspius delineatus), a cyprinid fish native to continental Europe and now established in the UK, is experiencing population decline which appears to be linked to the spread of the invasive Asian cyprinid (Pseudorasbora parva). A population of sunbleak in the UK has previously been identified as infected with S. destruens at low prevalence. Because Sphaerothaecum destruens has, on occasion, caused severe disease in cultured and wild salmonids the aim of this work was to establish laboratory cultures of S. destruens from sunbleak in the UK and use these cultures in challenge experiments to determine if the UK isolate of S. destruens from cyprinid species is a potential threat to Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar). The first isolation and culture of S. destruens in the UK and from a cyprinid species is described. Cultured S. destruens spores from sunbleak are infective to EPC, CHSE and FHM cells, replicating most rapidly in FHM and EPC cells. Spores can be induced to zoosporulate in water forming motile, uni-flagellated zoospores. Challenge experiments indicated the spores are able to replicate and disperse in Atlantic salmon and are associated with increased mortality (up to 90%) when injected intraperitonealy.
In vitro cultured Neoparamoeba perurans causes amoebic gill disease in Atlantic salmon and fulfils Koch's postulates.	Amoebic gill disease (AGD) in marine farmed Atlantic salmon is of growing concern worldwide and remains a significant health issue for salmon growers in Australia. Until now the aetiological agent, Neoparamoeba perurans, has not been amenable to in vitro culture and therefore Koch's postulates could not be fulfilled. The inability to culture the amoeba has been a limiting factor in the progression of research into AGD and required the maintenance of an on-going laboratory-based infection to supply infective material. Culture methods using malt yeast agar with sea water overlaid and subculturing every 3-4 days have resulted in the establishment of a clonal culture of N. perurans, designated clone 4. Identity of the amoeba was confirmed by PCR. After 70 days in culture clone 4 infected Atlantic salmon, causing AGD, and was re-isolated from the infected fish. Diagnosis was confirmed by histology and the infectious agent identified by PCR and in situ hybridisation using oligonucleotide primers and probes previously developed and specific to N. perurans. This study has fulfilled Koch's postulates for N. perurans as a causative agent of AGD and illustrates its free-living and parasitic nature.
RNA interference mediated knockdown of the KDEL receptor and COPB2 inhibits digestion and reproduction in the parasitic copepod Lepeophtheirus salmonis.	Retrograde transport of proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi is an essential part of the secretory pathway that all newly synthesised secreted and membrane proteins in eukaryotic cells undergo. The aim of this study was to characterise two components of the retrograde transport pathway in the parasitic copepod Lepeophtheirus salmonis (salmon louse) on a molecular and functional level. LsKDELR and LsCOPB2 were confirmed to be the salmon louse homologues of the chosen target proteins by sequence similarity. Ontogenetic analysis by qRT-PCR revealed the highest expression levels of both genes in adult females and the earliest larval stage. LsKDELR and LsCOPB2 localisation in adult females was detected by immunofluorescence and in situ hybridisation, respectively. Both LsKDELR and LsCOPB2 were found in the ovaries, the oocytes and the gut. LsKDELR and LsCOPB2 were knocked down by RNA interference in preadult females, which was confirmed by qRT-PCR. LsCOPB2 knockdown lice had a significantly higher mortality and failed to develop normally, while both LsCOPB2 and LsKDELR knockdown caused disturbed digestion and the absence of egg strings. This shows the potential of LsKDELR and LsCOPB2 as suitable target candidates for new pest control methods. 
A method for stable gene knock-down by RNA interference in larvae of the salmon louse (Lepeophtheirus salmonis).	The salmon louse (Lepeophtheirus salmonis), an ectoparasitic copepod of salmonid fish, is a major threat to aquaculture in Norway, Ireland, Scotland and Canada. Due to rise in resistance against existing pesticides, development of novel drugs or vaccines is necessary. Posttranscriptional gene silencing by RNA interference (RNAi), when established in a high throughput system is a potential method for evaluation of molecular targets for new medical compounds or vaccine antigens. Successful use of RNAi has been reported in several stages of salmon lice. However, when we employed a previously described protocol for planktonic stages, no reproducible down-regulation of target genes was gained. In the present study, we describe a robust method for RNAi, where nauplius larvae are soaked in seawater added double stranded RNA (dsRNA). In order to test for when dsRNA may be introduced, and for the efficacy and duration of RNAi, we performed a series of experiments on accurately age determined larvae, ranging from the hatching egg to the copepodid with a salmon louse coatomer and a putative prostaglandin E synthase gene. Presumptive knock-down was monitored by real time PCR. Significant gene silencing was obtained only when nauplius I larvae were exposed to dsRNA during the period in which they molted to nauplius II. A knock down effect could be detected 2days after soaking, and it remained stable until the last measurement, on day 12. Soaking nauplius I larvae, knock-down was verified for six additional genes with a putative role in molting. For one chitinase, a loss-of-function phenotype with abnormal swimming was obtained. Hence, RNAi, induced in the nauplius, may facilitate studies of the molecular biology of the louse, such as the function of specific genes in developmental processes and physiology, host recognition, host-parasite interaction, and, in extension, the engineering of novel medicines. 
