Structural predictions of AgfA, the insoluble fimbrial subunit of Salmonella thin aggregative fimbriae.	The unusually stable and multifunctional, thin aggregative fimbriae common to all Salmonella spp. are principally polymers of the fimbrin subunit, AgfA. AgfA of Salmonella enteritidis consists of two domains: a protease-sensitive, 22 amino acid residue N-terminal region and a protease-resistant, 109 residue C-terminal core. The unusual amino acid sequence of the AgfA core region comprises two-, five- and tenfold internal sequence homology patterns reflected in five conserved, 18-residue tandem repeats. These repeats have the consensus sequence, Sx5QxGx2NxAx3Q and are linked together by four or five residues, (x)xAx2. The predicted secondary structure for this unusual arrangement of tandem repeats in AgfA indicates mainly extended conformation with the beta strands linked by four to six residues. Candidate proteins of known structure with motifs of alternating beta strands and short loops were selected from folds described in SCOP as a source of coordinates for AgfA model construction. Three all-beta class motifs selected from the Serratia marcescens metalloprotease, myelin P2 protein or vitelline membrane outer protein I were used for initial AgfA homology build-up procedures ultimately resulting in three structural models; beta barrel, beta prism and parallel beta helix. The beta barrel model is a compact, albeit irregular structure, with the beta strands arranged in two antiparallel beta sheet faces. The beta prism model does not reflect the 5 or 10-fold symmetry of the AgfA primary sequence. However, the favored, parallel beta helix model is a compact coil of ten helically arranged beta strands forming two parallel beta sheet faces. This arrangement predicts a regular, potentially stable, C-terminal core region consistent with the observed tandem repeat sequences, protease-resistance and strong tendency of this fimbrin to oligomerize and aggregate. Positional conservation of amino acid residues in AgfA and the Escherichia coli AgfA homologue, CsgA, provides strong support for this model. The parallel beta helix model of AgfA offers an interesting solution to a multifunctional fimbrin molecular surface having solvent exposed areas, regions for major and minor subunit interactions as well as fiber-fiber interactions common to many bacterial fimbriae.
Screening of LPS-specific peptides from a phage display library using epoxy beads.	The selection of identical or highly homologous peptides from phage display combinatorial peptide libraries has been unsuccessful in biopanning experiments using microtiter plates. In the present study, by biopanning on LPS-conjugated epoxy beads, we repeatedly enriched clones encoding AWLPWAK and NLQEFLF. These peptides were found to interact with the polysaccharide moiety of LPS, which is highly variable among gram negative bacterial species. In addition, phages encoding these peptides preferentially bound to the LPS of Salmonella family. AWLPWAK-conjugated beads absorbed Salmonella enteritidis from solution and showed a preference for S. enteritidis over Escherichia coli. In summary, this study shows for the first time that a peptide screened from phage displays of combinatorial peptide libraries can be synthesized on beads and be used practically to concentrate bacterial cells from solution.
AgfC and AgfE facilitate extracellular thin aggregative fimbriae synthesis in Salmonella enteritidis.	Salmonella thin aggregative fimbriae (Tafi; curli) are important in pathogenesis and biofilm formation; however, less is known of their structure and morphogenesis. In the Salmonella agfBAC Tafi operon, the transcription and role of agfC have been elusive. In this study, agfBAC transcripts were detected using a sensitive reverse transcriptase technique. Native AgfC was not detected using polyclonal antibodies generated against purified hexahistidine-tagged AgfC; however, in trans expression revealed that AgfC was localized to the periplasm as a mature form. An isogenic DeltaagfC mutant displayed an abundance of 20 nm fibres, in addition to native Tafi (5-7 nm), and had an increase in cell surface hydrophobicity. Purified 20 nm fibres were depolymerized under exceptionally stringent conditions to release what proved to be AgfA subunits. This revealed that the 20 nm fibres represented a different form of Tafi. The role of AgfC in Tafi assembly was investigated further using an antibody-capture assay of isogenic Deltaagf mutants. A soluble antibody-accessible form of AgfA was captured in wild-type (wt), DeltaagfB and DeltaagfF strains, in support of the extracellular nucleation-precipitation pathway of Tafi assembly, but not in DeltaagfC or DeltaagfE mutants. This indicates that AgfC and AgfE are important for AgfA extracellular assembly, facilitating the synthesis of Tafi.
Influence of the lipopolysaccharide structure of Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis on interactions with pig neutrophils.	The key process for immune response development is the recognition of bacteria by the immune system of the host based on the sensing of pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMP). One of the most important PAMP is the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) molecule, a complex molecule present in the outer membrane of Gram negative bacteria. In this study we were interested in how different parts of the LPS of Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis are recognized by porcine neutrophils. To this aim, we constructed S. Enteritidis mutants with rfaL and rfaC genes disabled in the attachment of the O-antigen and in the synthesis of the inner oligosaccharide core of LPS, respectively. We found that in the absence of serum, both the rfa mutants associated with neutrophils and stimulated them for reactive oxygen species (ROS) production significantly more than the wild-type strain. Addition of polymyxin B, which neutralized lipid A, the endotoxic moiety of LPS, effectively decreased the association of the wild-type strain and the rfaC mutant with neutrophils, but not the rfaL mutant. This indicates that the oligosaccharide core newly exposed on the surface in the rfaL mutant, protected from interaction in the wild-type strain by the O-antigen but completely absent in the rfaC mutant, may represent a new ligand for porcine neutrophils that cannot be neutralized by polymyxin B.
Combined treatments of high-pressure with the lactoperoxidase system or lactoferrin on the inactivation of Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella Enteritidis and Escherichia coli O157:H7 in beef carpaccio.	The effect of high hydrostatic pressure (HHP) treatments in combination with the lactoperoxidase system (LPOS) or activated lactoferrin (ALF) on Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serovar Enteritidis and Escherichia coli O157:H7 was investigated in cured beef carpaccio stored at 8 °C or 22 °C during 7 d. HHP (450 MPa for 5 min) reduced pathogen levels by 1-3 log units and the antimicrobial effect remained during 7 d of storage under temperature abuse conditions at 8 °C and at 22 °C. The individual application of LPOS and ALF did not affect the survival of the three pathogens studied during storage. However, a synergistic bactericidal interaction between LPOS and HHP was observed against S. Enteritidis and E. coli O157:H7. Combined treatments of HHP with LPOS would be useful to reduce the intensity of pressurization treatments diminishing changes in the quality of meat products. 
Periplasmic and fimbrial SefA from Salmonella enteritidis.	Salmonella enteritidis produces thin, filamentous fimbriae composed of the fimbrin subunit SefA. Although insoluble in most detergents and chaotropic agents, these fimbriae were soluble at pH 10.5. Furthermore, in sodium dodecyl sulfate, these fibers depolymerized into monomers, dimers and other multimers of SefA, which precipitated on removal of the detergent. In contrast, unassembled periplasmic SefA fimbrins purified from Escherichia coli expressing cloned sefA and sefB were readily soluble in aqueous solution. Fimbrial and periplasmic SefA also differed in their reaction with an anti-SEF14 monoclonal antibody and in their surface hydrophobicity, indicating that the two forms had different properties. Precise mass measurements of periplasmic and fimbrial SefA by mass spectroscopy showed that these variations were not due to post-translational modifications. Periplasmic SefA consisted primarily of intact as well as some N-terminally truncated forms. The main 24 amino acid, N-terminally truncated form of periplasmic SefA was present as a 12.2 kDa monomer which had a low tendency to dimerize whereas intact periplasmic SefA was present as a 34.1 kDa homodimer. Intact periplasmic SefA also formed stable multimers at low concentrations of chemical cross-linker but multimerization of the truncated form required high concentrations of protein or cross-linker. Thus, SefA fimbrins appear to multimerize through their N-termini and undergo a conformational change prior to assembly into fibers. Within these fibers, subunit-subunit contact is maintained through strong hydrophobic interactions.
Molecular epidemiology of Salmonella serotype Enteritidis. Relationships between food, water and pathogenic strains.	A molecular epidemiology study of Salmonella serotype Enteritidis was carried out by ribotyping performed with a mixture of PstI and SphI (PS ribotyping), and randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) typing conducted with the OPB17 primer. A series, including 38 food and 25 water strains, which were epidemiologically unrelated and collected in Spain over 1985-1996, was differentiated into 20 PS ribotypes [discrimination index (DI) = 0.67], RAPD types (DI = 0.28), and by combining both methods into 23 genomic groups (DI = 0.76). With ribotyping data from the strains tested in this and in a previous work, including clinical and reference strains, a similarity dendrogram was traced and the subsequent branches and groupings were correlated with RAPD types, phage types and sources of origin. At a similarity level of 55%, a major cluster (grouping five subclusters and three single branches) and two minor clusters were revealed. Results supported the fact that organisms representing, at least, 40 genomic groups are currently circulating in Spain, but that only the organisms of five groups predominate and these fall into a single subcluster or lineage. Organisms of these five groups could be considered endemic, associated with food-borne human infections and, for epidemiological purposes, can be differentiated by phage typing. The most frequent phage types can be subdivided into genomic groups. Organisms of the prevalent genomic groups and several less frequent ones were mainly associated with poultry transmission and gastroenteritis as the major clinical forms, while organisms of another two frequent groups were mainly associated with extra-intestinal infections, and organisms of four infrequent groups were only collected from sewage or environmental waters.
