Oral immunisation with live aroA attenuated Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium expressing the Yersinia pestis V antigen protects mice against plague.	Bubonic and pneumonic plague are caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis. The V antigen of Y. pestis is a protective antigen against plague. In this study, an aroA attenuated strain of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium (SL3261) has been used to deliver the Y. pestis V antigen as a candidate oral plague vaccine. SL3261 was transformed with the expression plasmid pTrc-LcrV, containing the lcrV gene encoding V antigen. Immunoblot analysis showed V antigen expression in SL3261 in vitro and intragastric immunisation of mice with the recombinant Salmonella resulted in the induction of V antigen-specific serum antibody responses and afforded protection against Y. pestis challenge. However, the antibody responses induced by the recombinant Salmonella did not correlate with the protection afforded, indicating that immune responses other than antibody may play a role in the protection afforded against plague by this candidate vaccine.
Immune responses dependent on antigen location in recombinant attenuated Salmonella typhimurium vaccines following oral immunization.	The subcellular location of a recombinant antigen in recombinant attenuated Salmonella vaccines may influence immunogenicity dependent on exposure of the recombinant antigen to cells involved in systemic immune responses. It has been shown that a recombinant attenuated Salmonella vaccine secreting the recombinant Streptococcus pneumoniae PspA (rPspA) antigen specified by pYA3494 induced protective anti-rPspA-specific immune responses (Kang et al. (2002) Infect. Immun. 70, 1739-1749). A recombinant plasmid pYA3496 specifying a His(6)-tagged rPspA (His(6)-rPspA) protein (no apparent signal sequence) caused the rPspA antigen to localize to the cytoplasm of Salmonella. Salmonella vaccines carrying pYA3494 or pYA3496 expressed similar amounts of rPspA. After a single oral immunization in BALB/c mice with 10(9) colony-forming units (CFU) of the recombinant Salmonella vaccines carrying pYA3494 or pYA3496, IgG antibody responses were stimulated to both rPspA and Salmonella lipopolysaccharide (LPS) antigens. The anti-rPspA IgG titer induced by Salmonella carrying pYA3494 (1.9 x 10(7)) was 10(4) times higher than induced by Salmonella carrying pYA3496 (<2.4 x 10(3)).
In vitro and in vivo stability of recombinant plasmids in a vaccine strain of Salmonella enterica var. Typhimurium.	This study examined the ability of different plasmid vectors encoding H(C) fragment, the non-toxic binding portion of tetanus toxin, to be stably retained by Salmonella enterica var. Typhimurium (Salmonella typhimurium) vaccine strain BRD509 and, upon immunisation, to induce an antibody response against the carried antigen. The H(C) fragment expression cassette containing the transcription/translation signals, H(C) fragment open reading frame and the downstream TrpA terminator, was excised from pTETtac4 and incorporated into the plasmids pIC20H, pBR322, pACYC184 and pRSF1010. The resulting constructs were transferred into attenuated S. typhimurium, BRD509, and the level of H(C) fragment expression was examined by Western blot analysis. The relative stability of each plasmid in S. typhimurium was determined in vitro in the absence of antibiotic selection, and in vivo following immunisation. The ability of each H(C) fragment-expressing strain to induce lipopolysaccharide- and tetanus toxoid-specific antibody responses was assayed by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. These studies showed that all the vaccine vector constructs, except the S. typhimurium carrying the expression vector based on pIC20H, were able to elicit a high titre immune response. The level of tetanus toxoid-specific antibody induced by S. typhimurium directly correlated with the level of in vitro and in vivo stability of the H(C) fragment expression plasmid carried by the bacterium, and not with an increased copy number of the parent plasmid vector.
Effect of in situ expression of human interleukin-6 on antibody responses against Salmonella typhimurium antigens.	In an attempt to trigger increased mucosal secretory immune responses against bacterial surface antigens, we constructed an optimized human interleukin (hIL)-6-secreting Salmonella typhimurium strain (X4064(pCH1A+pYL3E)), utilizing the hemolysin (Hly) exporter for secretory delivery of a functional hIL-6-hemolysin fusion protein (hIL-6-HlyA(s)). Through stable introduction of a second hIL-6-HlyA(s) expression plasmid (pYL3E) in the previously described X4064(pCH1A) strain, hIL-6-HlyA(s) secretion efficiencies were increased by at least 10-fold. As pCH1A in the parental strain, pYL3E was stable in vitro in the absence of antibiotic selection and in vivo neither did plasmids interfere in their stabilities. Increased hIL-6-HlyA(s) expression did not adversely interfere with bacterial growth. Comparative immunization experiments in mice with oral application of the different hIL-6-secreting strains revealed that increased in situ hIL-6-production influenced systemic antibody responses against Salmonella antigens but had no marked effect on mucosal responses. In mice immunized with X4064(pCH1A+pYL3E) significantly higher sera IgG and IgA titers for lipopolysaccharide (LPS) were found compared to mice immunized with X4064(pCH1A) and a hIL-6-negative control strain. Higher sera antibody titers were accompanied by increased numbers of IgG- and IgA-specific antibody-secreting cells in spleens and Peyer's patches, respectively. These data suggest that systemic antibody responses against Salmonella LPS are largely effected by IL-6 and, moreover, the amount and the cellular location of recombinantly expressed IL-6 appears to be crucial for enhancement of immune responses.
Use of the alpha-hemolysin secretion system of Escherichia coli for antigen delivery in the Salmonella typhi Ty21a vaccine strain.	This study examined the suitability of the hemolysin secretion system of Escherichia coli for expression and delivery of alpha-hemolysin (HlyA) by the S. typhi Ty21a strain, the only live oral Salmonella vaccine strain licensed for human use, under in vitro and in vivo conditions. For this purpose, two plasmid vectors encoding either the whole alpha-hemolysin of E. coli (pANN202-812/pMOhly2) or the hemolysin secretion signal (pMOhly1) were transferred into S. typhi Ty21a. S. typhi Ty21a carrying pANN202-812/pMOhly2 revealed efficient secretion of hemolysin in vitro. After formulation according to a process suitable for commercial production of Salmonella-based live bacterial vaccines, plasmids were shown to be stable in Ty21a and hemolysin secretion was demonstrated even after storage of the strains under real-time and stress conditions. After intranasal immunization of mice with S. typhi Ty21a/pANN202-812 plasmids are stable in vivo, and immunization induced a profound immune response against the heterologous HlyA antigen. Therefore, the combination of the hemolysin secretion system and S. typhi Ty21a could form the basis for a new generation of live bacterial vaccines.
Attenuated Salmonella typhimurium SL3261 as a vaccine vector for recombinant antigen in rabbits.	Oral live Salmonella vaccine vectors expressing recombinant guest antigens help stimulate systemic, mucosal, humoral, and cell-mediated immune responses against Salmonella and recombinant antigens. It may be possible to use them effectively against Haemophilus ducreyi, the bacterium that causes chancroid, a sexually transmitted genital ulcer disease. This study aimed to test the feasibility of using oral Salmonella vaccine vectors for the evaluation of chancroid vaccine candidates in the temperature-dependent rabbit model of H. ducreyi infection, an in vivo quantitative virulence assay of inducible immunity. We identified 10(8) to 10(9) CFU to be a safe and immunogenic oral dose range of S. typhimurium SL3261, by monitoring post-administration onset and course of illness and antibody titre by enzyme immunoassay (EIA). We successfully transduced plasmid pTETnir15 into the strain to produce recombinant S. typhimurium SL3261(pTETnir15), successfully expressed tetanus toxin fragment C (TetC) in it, and elicited serum anti-TetC titres of 1:6400 by EIA, 4 weeks after inoculation. The course of experimentally induced H. ducreyi skin lesions in rabbits treated with SL3261(pTETnir15) was similar to that in saline-treated controls. We describe a framework that successfully uses Salmonella as a vector for recombinant control antigen in the rabbit model of H. ducreyi infection, and is suitable for pre-clinical evaluation of Salmonella vector-based H. ducreyi vaccine antigen candidates.
Preliminary evaluation of the use of the sefA fimbrial gene to elicit immune response against Salmonella enterica serotype Enteritidis in chickens.	In the last 2 decades, the prevalence of Salmonella enterica serotype Enteritidis (Salmonella Enteritidis) has dramatically increased worldwide, becoming the leading cause of food-borne illnesses and an important public health issue. Many studies have suggested the role of the SEF14 fimbrial protein in the adhesion of Salmonella Enteritidis to the host. In the present study, the sefA gene, which encodes the main subunit of the SEF14 fimbrial protein, was cloned into a temperature-sensitive expression vector and transformed into a nonpathogenic, avirulent strain of Escherichia coli. The recombinant strain was used as a vaccine to elicit specific immune response against the SefA protein of Salmonella Enteritidis in 1-day-old chickens. The recombinant strain was reisolated from the intestines of treated birds for up to 21 days posttreatment, demonstrating its ability to colonize the intestinal tracts of 1-day-old chickens. In addition, immunoglobulin A (IgA) against the SefA protein was detected in intestinal secretions from treated birds at 7 days posttreatment and in bile samples from 14 to 21 days posttreatment by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Nontreated birds did not show any evidence of intestinal colonization by the recombinant strain or anti-SefA IgA response in their bile or intestinal secretions. Preliminary evaluation of the recombinant strain showed a potential use of this strain to elicit protection against Salmonella Enteritidis infection in chickens. Further experiments are needed to study the ability of the recombinant strain to protect birds against Salmonella Enteritidis colonization.
Oral vaccination with salmonella simultaneously expressing Yersinia pestis F1 and V antigens protects against bubonic and pneumonic plague.	The gut provides a large area for immunization enabling the development of mucosal and systemic Ab responses. To test whether the protective Ags to Yersinia pestis can be orally delivered, the Y. pestis caf1 operon, encoding the F1-Ag and virulence Ag (V-Ag) were cloned into attenuated Salmonella vaccine vectors. F1-Ag expression was controlled under a promoter from the caf1 operon; two different promoters (P), PtetA in pV3, PphoP in pV4, as well as a chimera of the two in pV55 were tested. F1-Ag was amply expressed; the chimera in the pV55 showed the best V-Ag expression. Oral immunization with Salmonella-F1 elicited elevated secretory (S)-IgA and serum IgG titers, and Salmonella-V-Ag(pV55) elicited much greater S-IgA and serum IgG Ab titers than Salmonella-V-Ag(pV3) or Salmonella-V-Ag(pV4). Hence, a new Salmonella vaccine, Salmonella-(F1+V)Ags, made with a single plasmid containing the caf1 operon and the chimeric promoter for V-Ag allowed the simultaneous expression of F1 capsule and V-Ag. Salmonella-(F1+V)Ags elicited elevated Ab titers similar to their monotypic derivatives. For bubonic plague, mice dosed with Salmonella-(F1+V)Ags and Salmonella-F1-Ag showed similar efficacy (>83% survival) against approximately 1000 LD(50) Y. pestis. For pneumonic plague, immunized mice required immunity to both F1- and V-Ags because the mice vaccinated with Salmonella-(F1+V)Ags protected against 100 LD(50) Y. pestis. These results show that a single Salmonella vaccine can deliver both F1- and V-Ags to effect both systemic and mucosal immune protection against Y. pestis.
A live Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis vaccine allows serological differentiation between vaccinated and infected animals.	Three precisely defined deletion mutants of Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis were constructed, a guanine auxotrophic DeltaguaB mutant, a nonflagellated DeltafliC mutant, and an auxotrophic and nonflagellated DeltaguaB DeltafliC double mutant. All three mutants were less invasive than the wild-type strain in primary chicken cecal epithelial cells and the human epithelial cell line T84 and less efficiently internalized in the chicken macrophage cell line HD11. The DeltafliC mutant was pathogenic in orally infected BALB/c mice, while the DeltaguaB mutant was attenuated and conferred protection against a challenge with the pathogenic parent strain. The DeltaguaB DeltafliC double mutant was totally asymptomatic and conferred better protection than the DeltaguaB mutant. This indicates that the major flagellar protein flagellin is not required for efficient vaccination of BALB/c mice against Salmonella infection. The DeltaguaB DeltafliC mutant was also safe for vaccination of 1-day-old chickens. After two immunizations, it induced statistically significant protection against infection of the internal organs of the birds by a virulent S. enterica serovar Enteritidis challenge strain but not against intestinal colonization. These data demonstrate that nonflagellated attenuated Salmonella mutants can be used as marker vaccines.
Intragastric immunization with recombinant Lactobacillus casei expressing flagellar antigen confers antibody-independent protective immunity against Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis.	A recombinant Lactobacillus casei expressing a flagellar antigen from Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis was constructed and evaluated as a mucosal vaccine. Intragastric immunization of the recombinant strain conferred protective immunity against Salmonella infection in mice. This immunization did not result in antigen-specific antibody in either feces or sera but induced the release of IFN-gamma on restimulation of primed lymphocytes ex vivo. The results suggested that the protective efficacy provided by flagellin-expressing L. casei is mainly attributable to cell-mediated immune responses. In addition, an adjuvant-type effect of the antigen delivery system with L. casei was also observed.
Immunization of pigs to prevent disease in humans: construction and protective efficacy of a Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium live negative-marker vaccine.	Zoonotic infections caused by Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium pose a constant threat to consumer health, with the pig being a particularly major source of multidrug-resistant isolates. Vaccination, as a promising approach to reduce colonization and shedding, has been scarcely used, as it interferes with current control programs relying on serology as a means of herd classification. In order to overcome this problem, we set out to develop a negative-marker vaccine allowing the differentiation of infected from vaccinated animals (DIVA). Applying an immunoproteomic approach with two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, Western blot, and quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry, we identified the OmpD protein as a suitable negative marker. Using allelic exchange, we generated an isogenic mutant of the licensed live vaccine strain Salmoporc and showed that virulence of Salmoporc and that of the mutant strain, SalmoporcDeltaompD, were indistinguishable in BALB/c mice. In a pig infection experiment including two oral immunizations with SalmoporcDeltaompD and challenge with a multiresistant S. enterica serovar Typhimurium DT104 clinical isolate, we confirmed the protective efficacy of SalmoporcDeltaompD in pigs, showing a significant reduction of both clinical symptoms and colonization of lymph nodes and intestinal tract. OmpD immunogenic epitopes were determined by peptide spot array analyses. Upon testing of several 9-mer peptides, each including an immunogenic epitope, one peptide (positions F(100) to Y(108)) that facilitated the detection of infected animals independent of their vaccination status (DIVA function) was identified. The approach described overcomes the problems currently limiting the use of bacterial live vaccines and holds considerable potential for future developments in the field.
Candidate live, attenuated Salmonella enterica serotype Typhimurium vaccines with reduced fecal shedding are immunogenic and effective oral vaccines.	Environmental shedding of genetically manipulated microorganisms is an issue impeding the development of new live vaccines. We have investigated the immunogenicity of a number of novel Salmonella enterica serotype Typhimurium oral vaccine candidates that express the fragment C (TetC) component of tetanus toxin and harbor combinations of additional mutations in genes shdA, misL, and ratB that contribute to the persistence of serotype Typhimurium's colonization of the intestine. Serotype Typhimurium aroA (TetC) derivatives harboring additional mutations in either shdA or misL or combinations of these mutations exhibited a marked decrease in shedding of the vaccine strain in the feces of orally vaccinated mice. However, equivalent levels of anti-TetC and anti-Salmonella lipopolysaccharide immunoglobulin G (IgG), IgG1, IgG2a, and IgA were detected in sera of the vaccinated but not of the control mice. Cellular immune responses to TetC were detected in all vaccinated mice, regardless of the presence of the additional mutations in shdA or misL. Further, immunization with serotype Typhimurium aroA candidate vaccines harboring shdA and misL afforded complete protection against challenge with a virulent strain of serotype Typhimurium.
Protective immunity of biodegradable nanoparticle-based vaccine against an experimental challenge with Salmonella Enteritidis in mice.	Salmonella spp. infections transmitted by contaminated poultry and eggs represent a major global health burden. Salmonella enterica serovar. Enteritidis is the leading cause of human salmonellosis worldwide. The cell surface antigens of Salmonella Enteritidis play an important role in the host-pathogen interactions and as such represent potential candidates for subunit-vaccine development. An immunogenic subcellular extract obtained from whole Salmonella Enteritidis cells (HE) was encapsulated in nanoparticles made with the polymer Gantrez (HE-NP). Proteomics was used to investigate the complex protein nature of the HE extract. Immunogenicity and protection studies against lethal Salmonella Enteritidis challenge were performed in BALB/c mice. Increased survival was observed in vaccinated mice as compared to a control group; 80% of the mice immunized with the HE-NP formulation survived even when administered 49 days before the lethal challenge. The cytokines released from in vitro-stimulated spleens showed a strong gamma interferon response in all immunized groups at day 10 post-immunization. However, the immunity induced by HE-NP at day 49 post-immunization suggests the involvement of a TH2 subclass in the protective effect. The potential for mucosal vaccination suggests that HE-nanoparticles may represent an important alternative to the conventional attenuated vaccines against Salmonella Enteritidis.
Formulation of a live bacterial vaccine for stable room temperature storage results in loss of acid, bile and bile salt resistance.	Live bacterial vaccines have great promise both as vaccines against enteric pathogens and as heterologous antigen vectors against diverse diseases. Ideally, room temperature stable dry formulations of live bacterial vaccines will allow oral vaccination without cold-chain storage or injections. Attenuated Salmonella can cross the intestinal wall and deliver replicating antigen plus innate immune activation signals directly to the intestinal immune tissues; however, the ingested bacteria must survive firstly gastric acid and secondly the antimicrobial defences of the small intestine. We found that the way in which cells are grown prior to formulation markedly affects sensitivity to acid and bile. Using a previously published stable storage formulation that maintained over 10% viability after 56 days storage at room temperature, we found dried samples of an attenuated Salmonella serovar Typhimurium vaccine lost acid and bile resistance compared to the same bacteria taken from fresh culture. The stable formulation utilised osmotic pre-conditioning in defined medium plus elevated salt concentration to induce intracellular trehalose accumulation before drying. Dried bacteria grown in rich media without osmotic pre-conditioning showed more resistance to bile, but less stability during storage, suggesting a trade-off between bile resistance and stability. Further optimisation is needed to produce the ultimate room temperature stable oral live bacterial vaccine formulation.
A safe vaccine (DV-STM-07) against Salmonella infection prevents abortion and confers protective immunity to the pregnant and new born mice.	Pregnancy is a transient immuno-compromised condition which has evolved to avoid the immune rejection of the fetus by the maternal immune system. The altered immune response of the pregnant female leads to increased susceptibility to invading pathogens, resulting in abortion and congenital defects of the fetus and a subnormal response to vaccination. Active vaccination during pregnancy may lead to abortion induced by heightened cell mediated immune response. In this study, we have administered the highly attenuated vaccine strain DeltapmrG-HM-D (DV-STM-07) in female mice before the onset of pregnancy and followed the immune reaction against challenge with virulent S. Typhimurium in pregnant mice. Here we demonstrate that DV-STM-07 vaccine gives protection against Salmonella in pregnant mice and also prevents Salmonella induced abortion. This protection is conferred by directing the immune response towards Th2 activation and Th1 suppression. The low Th1 response prevents abortion. The use of live attenuated vaccine just before pregnancy carries the risk of transmission to the fetus. We have shown that this vaccine is safe as the vaccine strain is quickly eliminated from the mother and is not transmitted to the fetus. This vaccine also confers immunity to the new born mice of vaccinated mothers. Since there is no evidence of the vaccine candidate reaching the new born mice, we hypothesize that it may be due to trans-colostral transfer of protective anti-Salmonella antibodies. These results suggest that our vaccine DV-STM-07 can be very useful in preventing abortion in the pregnant individuals and confer immunity to the new born. Since there are no such vaccine candidates which can be given to the new born and to the pregnant women, this vaccine holds a very bright future to combat Salmonella induced pregnancy loss.
Comparison of a regulated delayed antigen synthesis system with in vivo-inducible promoters for antigen delivery by live attenuated Salmonella vaccines.	Induction of strong immune responses against a vectored antigen in hosts immunized with live attenuated Salmonella vaccines is related in part to the amount of antigen delivered and the overall fitness of the Salmonella vector in relation to its ability to stimulate the host immune system. Constitutive high-level antigen synthesis causes a metabolic burden to the vaccine vector strain that can reduce the vaccine strain's ability to interact with host lymphoid tissues, resulting in a compromised immune response. A solution to this problem is the use of systems that regulate antigen gene expression, permitting high levels of antigen synthesis only after the vaccine strain has reached its target tissues. In vivo-inducible promoters (IVIPs) are often used to accomplish this. We recently developed an alternative strategy, a regulated delayed antigen synthesis (RDAS) system, in which the LacI-repressible P(trc) promoter controls antigen gene expression by adding arabinose. In this paper, we compared the RDAS system with two commonly used IVIPs, P(ssaG) and P(pagC). Three nearly identical plasmids, differing only in the promoter used to direct transcription of the pneumococcal pspA gene, P(trc), P(ssaG), or P(pagC), were constructed and introduced into isogenic Salmonella vaccine strains with or without arabinose-inducible LacI synthesis. Mice immunized with the RDAS strain developed slightly higher titers of mucosal and serum anti-PspA antibodies than P(pagC)-immunized mice, while titers in mice immunized with the P(ssaG) strain were 100-fold lower. Both the RDAS and P(pagC) strains conferred similar levels of protection against Streptococcus pneumoniae challenge, significantly greater than those for the P(ssaG) strain or controls. Thus, RDAS provides another choice for inclusion in the live vaccine design to increase immunogenicity.
Oral priming with Salmonella Typhi vaccine strain CVD 909 followed by parenteral boost with the S. Typhi Vi capsular polysaccharide vaccine induces CD27+IgD-S. Typhi-specific IgA and IgG B memory cells in humans.	Attenuated live oral typhoid vaccine candidate CVD 909 constitutively expresses Salmonella Typhi capsular polysaccharide antigen (Vi). A randomized, double-blind, heterologous prime-boost clinical study was conducted to determine whether immunity to licensed parenteral Vi vaccine could be enhanced by priming with CVD 909. Priming with CVD 909 elicited higher and persistent, albeit not significant, anti-Vi IgG and IgA following immunization with Vi, than placebo-primed recipients. Vi-specific IgA B memory (B(M)) cells were significantly increased in CVD 909-primed subjects. S. Typhi-specific LPS and flagella IgA B(M) cells were observed in subjects immunized with CVD 909 or with the licensed Vi-negative oral typhoid vaccine Ty21a. CVD 909-induced B(M) cells exhibited a classical B(M) phenotype (i.e., CD3(-)CD19(+)IgD(-)CD27(+)). This is the first demonstration of classical B(M) cells specific for bacterial polysaccharide or protein antigens following typhoid immunization. The persistent IgA B(M) responses demonstrate the capacity of oral typhoid vaccines to prime mucosally relevant immune memory.
What is the best way to use conjugate vaccines?	The present review discusses recent advances, challenges and opportunities for the best use of conjugate vaccines now and in the future.
Comparison of real-time PCR with conventional PCR and culture to assess the efficacy of a live attenuated Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium vaccine against Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis in commercial leghorn chicks vaccinated under field and laboratory conditions.	The efficacy of a live attenuated Salmonella Typhimurium Megan Vac 1 vaccine (MV1) was evaluated against Salmonella Enteritidis in chicken pullets with the use of PCR and culture methods. Two hundred Hyline W-32 white leghorn chicks were obtained from a local hatchery and divided into four treatment groups. Two of the groups served as positive and negative controls. The MV1 vaccine was administered to the chicks in the remaining two groups at 1 and 35 days old by either the coarse spray (field) or the oral route (laboratory) method. The chicks were challenged with a high dose of a Salmonella Enteritidis strain at 10 wk old and euthanatized 3 days postinoculation. Samples for PCR analysis were collected prior to enrichment, after pre-enrichment in buffered peptone water (BPW) and after primary enrichment from the ceca, liver, and spleen. None of the samples tested yielded positive results for the Salmonella Typhimurium vaccine strain by either the culture or PCR methods. Results from the standard culture method showed that vaccinating the birds with MV1 reduced the counts of Salmonella Enteritidis recovered from the challenged birds. In addition, fewer pre-enriched samples tested positive for Salmonella Enteritidis among the challenged groups that were vaccinated when compared to the unvaccinated challenged group. Under the conditions of this study, MV1 was unable to prevent colonization of other internal organs such as the liver and spleen. Real-time PCR was significantly more sensitive than conventional PCR (C-PCR) prior to enrichment, but after enrichment the sensitivities of the two methods were similar. Enrichment significantly increased the sensitivity of both PCR methods for the detection of Salmonella Enteritidis in cecal samples, but did not significantly increase the sensitivity for detection of Salmonella Enteritidis in liver and spleen samples that were pre-enriched in BPW. There was no significant difference between the laboratory or field vaccination methods with respect to either the prevalence of Salmonella Enteritidis isolation or the bacterial loads in culture-positive samples. Collectively, the data suggest that MV1 offered some protection against Salmonella Enteritidis in commercial layer chick pullets under the conditions of this study. Given the labor and time required to perform the C-PCR and culture methods, the real-time PCR method may prove to be a more useful method to use in diagnostics.
Early-life and contemporaneous nutritional and environmental predictors of antibody response to vaccination in young Gambian adults.	Recent research links nutritional exposures early in life with alterations in functional immunity that persist beyond childhood. Here we investigate predictors of antibody response to polysaccharide vaccines in a cohort of Gambian adults with detailed records from birth and early infancy available. 320 adults were given a single dose of a Vi polysaccharide vaccine for Salmonella typhi and a 23-valent capsular polysaccharide pneumococcal vaccine. Anti-Vi antibody levels and antibodies against 4 pneumococcal serotypes (1, 5, 14 and 23F) were measured in serum samples collected at baseline and then 14 days following vaccination and compared to data available from birth and early infancy. Post-vaccination antibody titres to serotype 14 of the pneumococcal vaccine were negatively associated with rate of growth from birth to three months of age, infant weight at 12 months of age and season of birth, but no other associations were observed with early-life exposures. The strongest predictor of antibody levels was pre-vaccination antibody titres, with adult height and serum neopterin levels at time of vaccination also implicated. The current study does not support the hypothesis that nutritional exposures early in life consistently compromise antibody response to polysaccharide vaccines administered in young adulthood.
Humoral and cellular immune response generated by different vaccine programs before and after Salmonella Enteritidis challenge in chickens.	The poultry industry has a high demand for Salmonella vaccines in order to generate safer Salmonella-free food for consumers around the world. Vaccination against S. Enteritidis (SE) is vastly undertaken in many countries, although the criteria for the use of live vaccine (LV) or killed vaccine (KV) should also depend on the immune mechanisms triggered by each. In this study, a commercial bacterin (KV) and an attenuated SG mutant (LV) were used in four different vaccine programs (LV; LV+LV; KV; LV+KV). At 1 day before (dbi) and 1, 6 and 9 days after SE challenge (dpi), humoral (IgM, IgG and secretory IgA) and cellular (CD8(+) T cells) immune responses were evaluated along with the production of IL-10, IL-12 and IFN-γ. Although after challenge, all birds from each group had an influx of CD8(+) T cells, birds which received KV had lower levels of these cells in organs and significantly higher levels of immunoglobulins. The expression of the cytokines was up-regulated in all groups post-vaccination, although, after challenge, cytokine expression decreased in the vaccinated groups, and increased in the unvaccinated group A. IL-10 levels were significantly higher at 1 day post-infection in the group that received KV, which may be involved in the weak cellular immune response observed within this group. In caecal tonsils, IFN-γ expression at 1 dbi was higher in birds which received two vaccine doses, and after challenge, the population of CD8(+) T cells constantly increased in birds that were only vaccinated with the LV. This study demonstrated that the development of a mature immune response by CD8(+) T cells, provided by the use of the LV, had better efficacy in comparison to the high antibody levels in the serum stimulated by the KV. However, high secretory IgA levels in the intestinal lumen associated with influx CD8(+) T cells may be indicative of protection as noticed in group E (LV+KV).
The capsular polysaccharide Vi from Salmonella typhi is a B1b antigen.	Vaccination with purified capsular polysaccharide Vi Ag from Salmonella typhi can protect against typhoid fever, although the mechanism for its efficacy is not clearly established. In this study, we have characterized the B cell response to this vaccine in wild-type and T cell-deficient mice. We show that immunization with typhoid Vi polysaccharide vaccine rapidly induces proliferation in B1b peritoneal cells, but not in B1a cells or marginal zone B cells. This induction of B1b proliferation is concomitant with the detection of splenic Vi-specific Ab-secreting cells and protective Ab in Rag1-deficient B1b cell chimeras generated by adoptive transfer-induced specific Ab after Vi immunization. Furthermore, Ab derived from peritoneal B cells is sufficient to confer protection against Salmonella that express Vi Ag. Expression of Vi by Salmonella during infection did not inhibit the development of early Ab responses to non-Vi Ags. Despite this, the protection conferred by immunization of mice with porin proteins from Salmonella, which induce Ab-mediated protection, was reduced postinfection with Vi-expressing Salmonella, although protection was not totally abrogated. This work therefore suggests that, in mice, B1b cells contribute to the protection induced by Vi Ag, and targeting non-Vi Ags as subunit vaccines may offer an attractive strategy to augment current Vi-based vaccine strategies.
Evaluation of protection conferred by a Salmonella Typhimurium inactivated vaccine in Salmonella-infected finishing pig farms.	The efficacy of an inactivated S. Typhimurium vaccine administered to pigs at the beginning of the fattening period was evaluated in four clinical trials (trials A, B, C and D). Faecal shedding and the systemic antibody response during fattening, as well as, the cecal contents and mesenteric lymph nodes collected after slaughtering were used to assess the outcome. Salmonella shedders prevalence in the control groups was six times higher than in the treated groups in trials A and D, both herds infected by S. Typhimurium. The risk of positive pens was also four or five times higher for the pens housing control pigs in trials A and C. Lower prevalence of Salmonella was observed in the slaughter samples from the vaccinated pigs in trial D and in the cecal content samples in trial A, when just the S. Typhimurium results were compared. The results suggest the effective homologous protection of the vaccinated pigs; however, the high humoral response elicited in the vaccinated pigs complicates their use in farms under serological surveillance programmes. 
