Immunogenic properties of the Salmonella atypical fimbriae in BALB/c mice.	Components of the Salmonella atypical fimbriae (Saf) were investigated for potential inclusion in a Salmonella vaccine. Recombinant histidine-tagged SafB chaperone complexed with SafD adhesin was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified. Starch microparticles were used, as an adjuvant and recombinant cholera toxin B subunit (rCTB) was included as a mucosal antigen-uptake enhancer. BALB/c mice were immunized orally or subcutaneously with SafB/D- and rCTB-conjugated microparticles and nasally or subcutaneously with SafB/D mixed with rCTB. The systemic and mucosal immune responses were studied, and an oral challenge with Salmonella enteritidis was performed. All immunized groups except that receiving oral immunization responded with high IgM-IgG titers to SafB/D. Analysis of the subclass ratio (IgG1/IgG2a+IgG2b) indicated a mixed Th1 and Th2 response, with Th1 predominating. The mucosal response, measured as specific IgA/total IgA (from fecal samples), was significantly greater than that in the untreated control group only in the group receiving intranasal immunization (P<0.05). Spleens were removed 6 days after oral challenge and Salmonella colony-forming units (CFU) were counted. The group immunized subcutaneously with SafB/D- and rCTB-conjugated microparticles had significantly lower CFU counts than the untreated control group (P<0.05).
Construction of recombinant attenuated Salmonella typhimurium DNA vaccine expressing H pylori ureB and IL-2.	To construct a recombinant live attenuated Salmonella typhimurium DNA vaccine encoding H pylori ureB gene and mouse IL-2 gene and to detect its immunogenicity in vitro and in vivo.
Salmonella species and Campylobacter jejuni cecal colonization model in broilers.	Salmonella and Campylobacter are of concern to the poultry industry because of the continuing association of poultry-borne transmission of these diseases to humans. Live, mature bird interventions can be demonstrated only by comparing colonization in nontreated groups of control birds with treated bird groups. This study attempted to create a reproducible broiler chicken colonization model. When chicks were challenged 2 d posthatch with both Salmonella and Campylobacter, cecal colonization was achieved. By 4 wk posthatch, Salmonella counts per gram of cecal content diminished to very low or nondetectable levels. Campylobacter counts remained high throughout the test period. To achieve the goal of creating a mature bird Salmonella intestinal colonization model, oral treatment of 10 to 25 mg of vancomycin was given to 4-wk-old broilers, and 3 h later a composite of 3 Salmonella isolates were gavaged into the chickens. Birds were sampled 1 and 2 wk later. The data indicated that colonization was achieved at levels of 10(6-7) cfu g(-1) of cecal materials (at wk 5) and >10(2) to 10(4) cfu g(-1) of cecal materials (at wk 6).
Vaccinations of animals and human health (author's transl)]	Vaccination of animals may have both positive and negative effects on human health. The negative consequences largely occur with live vaccines. The protection provided by vaccination to animals is taken advantage of for human health in the most diverse ways, both directly and indirectly. Typical examples are vaccination of dogs and cats against against rabies and inoculation against diseases of cattle, horses and dogs in which reoviruses of serotypes 1, 2 and 3 are involved. An important contribution to the protection of human health is also provided by vaccination with inactivated pathogens against leptospirosis and salmonellosis, against stomatitis vesicularis and American equine encephalitis and in developing countries against brucellosis.
Advantages of rooming-in care of mother and child in the control of enteric epidemics in neonatal departments]	The hygienic advantages of the rooming-in system is described by the authors. The conditions of their institution are given in this country setting. Major conclusions from enteritis epidemic in neonatal wards are: long-lasting hospitalization and bottle feeding increases the incidence of enteric infections. In the spreading of this epidemic the hands of the nursing staff play a decisive, very important role. The rooming-in system helps in defeating the enteric infections, as a possibility for isolation, by decreasing the chance of cross-infections, the satisfying breast feeding makes the supplementary food unnecessary, thus preventing the infection of the alimentary tract.
Dynamic model for predicting growth of Salmonella spp. in ground sterile pork.	A predictive model for Salmonella spp. growth in ground pork was developed and validated using kinetic growth data. Salmonella spp. kinetic growth data in ground pork were collected at several isothermal conditions (between 10 and 45°C) and Baranyi model was fitted to describe the growth at each temperature, separately. The maximum growth rates (μ(max)) estimated from the Baranyi model were modeled as a function of temperature using a modified Ratkowsky equation. To estimate bacterial growth under dynamic temperature conditions, the differential form of the Baranyi model, in combination with the modified Ratkowsky equation for rate constants, was solved numerically using fourth order Runge-Kutta method. The dynamic model was validated using five different dynamic temperature profiles (linear cooling, exponential cooling, linear heating, exponential heating, and sinusoidal). Performance measures, root mean squared error, accuracy factor, and bias factor were used to evaluate the model performance, and were observed to be satisfactory. The dynamic model can estimate the growth of Salmonella spp. in pork within a 0.5 log accuracy under both linear and exponential cooling profiles, although the model may overestimate or underestimate at some data points, which were generally<1 log. Under sinusoidal temperature profiles, the estimates from the dynamic model were also within 0.5 log of the observed values. However, underestimation could occur if the bacteria were exposed to temperatures below the minimum growth temperature of Salmonella spp., since low temperature conditions could alter the cell physiology. To obtain an accurate estimate of Salmonella spp. growth using the models reported in this work, it is suggested that the models be used at temperatures above 7°C, the minimum growth temperature for Salmonella spp. in pork.
Human genome-wide RNAi screen for host factors that modulate intracellular Salmonella growth.	Salmonella enterica is a bacterial pathogen of humans that can proliferate within epithelial cells as well as professional phagocytes of the immune system. While much has been learned about the microbial genes that influence the infectious process through decades of intensive research, relatively little is known about the host factors that affect infection. We performed a genome-wide siRNA screen to identify host genes that Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium (S. typhimurium) utilizes to facilitate growth within human epithelial cells. In this screen, with siRNAs targeting every predicted gene in the human genome, we identified 252 new human-host-susceptibility factors (HSFs) for S. typhimurium. We also identified 39 genes whose silencing results in increased intracellular growth of S. typhimurium. The HSFs identified are regulated most centrally by NFκB and associate with each other through an extremely dense network of interactions that center around a group of kinases. Most genes identified were not previously appreciated as playing roles in the intracellular lifecycle of S. enterica. Numerous HSFs identified with interesting characteristics that could play plausible roles in mediating intracellular microbial growth are discussed. Importantly, this study reveals significant overlap between the host network that supports S. typhimurium growth within human epithelial cells and the one that promotes the growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis within human macrophages. In addition to providing much new information about the molecular mechanisms underlying S. enterica-host cell interplay, all 252 HSFs identified are candidates for new anti-microbial targets for controlling S. enterica infections, and some may provide broad-spectrum anti-microbial activity.
AA amyloidosis in vaccinated growing chickens.	Systemic amyloid-A (AA) amyloidosis in birds occurs most frequently in waterfowl such as Pekin ducks. In chickens, AA amyloidosis is observed as amyloid arthropathy. Outbreaks of systemic amyloidosis in flocks of layers are known to be induced by repeated inflammatory stimulation, such as those resulting from multiple vaccinations with oil-emulsified bacterins. Outbreaks of fatal AA amyloidosis were observed in growing chickens in a large scale poultry farm within 3 weeks of vaccination with multiple co-administered vaccines. This study documents the histopathological changes in tissues from these birds. Amyloid deposits were also observed at a high rate in the tissues of apparently healthy chickens. Vaccination should therefore be considered as a potential risk factor for the development of AA amyloidosis in poultry. 
Salmonella screening of pregnant women.	Over a 9-year period all maternity patients were screened by rectal swab for salmonella excretion at the time of delivery. 30,471 mothers were screened and 60 (0.2%) yielded salmonellas, 43 (72%) of whom were symptomless excretors. Seven of the 60 babies (12%) excreted salmonellas, all of which were the same organism as in the mothers. Five had uncomplicated gastroenteritis in the neonatal period, but no mother or child suffered invasive disease and no incidents of hospital cross-infection occurred. These results show that screening is unjustified unless there are problems of cross-infection.
Live oral Salmonella vaccines: potential use of attenuated strains as carriers of heterologous antigens to the immune system.	Live attenuated strains of salmonellae are showing promise as live oral vaccines against human typhoid fever and other Salmonella infections of man and animals. Attenuation can be achieved by introducing genetically defined, non-reverting mutations into specific genes on the Salmonella chromosome. Mutations in the gal E or aroA genes of Salmonella inhibit the ability of the bacteria to grow in vivo, and strains carrying such lesions are effective vaccines against salmonellosis. Genetic determinants encoding for the expression of potentially protective antigens from heterologous, non-Salmonella pathogens can be readily introduced into these attenuated Salmonella strains. Expression of the heterologous antigen does not affect the ability of the Salmonella host to be used as a Salmonella vaccine. Mice infected orally with a Salmonella typhimurium aroA vaccine expressing the Escherichia coli heat-labile toxin B subunit developed both a secretory and serum antibody response to this antigen. These serum antibodies were able to neutralise the activity of E. coli heat-labile toxin in tissue culture assays. A humoral and cell-mediated (DTH) immune response was detected against beta galactosidase, an intracellular antigen, in mice infected with an aroA vaccine expressing this cloned antigen. The prospects for the development of live Salmonella vaccines as a method for delivering heterologous antigens derived from bacteria, viruses and parasites is discussed.
Radiovaccine of S. typhimurium cells.	Gamma-irradiation of S. typhimurium cells up to a dose of 500 krad significantly reduces their toxicity. However, the antigenicity of these cells is not altered, which suggests that these cells could be used as a vaccine. The protection offered by the irradiated cells is comparable to that of formalin-treated cells. The radio-vaccine, however, offers an additional advantage of significant detoxification of the endotoxin, thereby minimizing side effects. The lipopolysaccharide extracted from the irradiated S. typhimurium cells offered cross-protection against other Salmonella species tested.
Interferon-induced protein synthesis inhibits endocytosis of bacteria in epithelial cells.	Previous studies have shown that human leukocyte interferon (IFN), IFN-gamma, and recombinant (r) IFN-alpha-A protect cultured human cells against the invasiveness of salmonellae, shigellae, and enteroinvasive Escherichia coli. To differentiate between effect on endocytosis and adhesiveness, HEp-2 cells were pretreated with cytochalasin B to block endocytosis, and thereafter treated with IFN. Although a significant reduction of adhesion of bacteria to HEp-2 cells was observed, this reduction was far too small to explain the total reduction of bacterial invasiveness. Thus, the anti-invasive effect of IFN on HEp-2 cells is due mostly to inhibition of endocytosis. The IFN effect was not expressed at 4 degrees C, and the ribosomal 60S subunit inactivators, cycloheximide, abrin, and shigella toxin, completely blocked the expression of the IFN-induced anti-invasive state of the cell. Thus, the IFN effect is dependent on continuous ribosomal activity. Our results indicate that the major effect of IFN on bacterial invasiveness is on endocytosis, and that the action is mediated through the effect of IFN-induced protein synthesis.
Screening for Salmonella in pregnancy]	National and Regional Health Authorities advise a stool culture in pregnant women before term in order to detect Salmonella carriers, prevent the spread of this microorganism to the newborn and avoid outbreaks of this infection in the nurseries. The Tuscany section of the Italian Association of Obstetricians and Gynecologists decided to test the usefulness of this Salmonella screening. In 7431 pregnant women at the 36th week a stool sample was examined for the presence of Salmonella. The occurrence of diarrhoea in these women was also investigated. The prevalence of Salmonella excretors in our obstetric population was 0.27%. Thirty per cent of the positive women complained of diarrhoea; that means that the risk of being positive in the presence of this symptom is 11.8 times larger. The positive cases were detected essentially in late summer and fall. No nursery outbreak occurred during the period studied. The Salmonella-carrying mother can not take advantage of an effective antimicrobic therapy and a single stool sample allows the detection of only part of the carriers. Therefore screening can not prevent the possibility of transmission during birth. The unfavorable ratio between costs and benefits suggests that stool culture for Salmonella may be useful only in late summer and fall and in symptomatic women. In order to obtain better results in the prevention of infections among newborns the observance of careful hygienic rules in the delivery rooms and in the nurseries is mandatory.
High hydrostatic pressure inactivation of Salmonella typhimurium: effects of pressure, duration, pH and temperature studied by analysis of variance.	High hydrostatic pressure treatments are regarded as possible alternative methods for food preservation. One of the primary considerations for industrial applications is the ability of these methods to eradicate pathogenic microorganisms. This study subjected S. typhimurium suspensions, first in a phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) and then in a citrate phosphate buffer (pH 5.6), to high hydrostatic pressure treatments relative to the following variables: pressure (200-400 MPa), duration (3, 10 and 20 min), temperature (4, 20 and 40 degrees C) and the pH of the suspension medium (5.6 and 7.0). An optimal design of 40 runs was obtained using the Fedorov algorithm, and responses were studied by analysis of variance in terms of cell survival on plate count agar. Efficiency was determined by Log10 comparisons of the numbers of live cells before and after treatment. A statistically significant relationship was found between the four variables considered (pressure, pH, duration and temperature), their interactions (duration x pressure, pH x temperature, pH x pressure) and the inactivation of S. typhimurium. R-squared statistical analysis indicated that the linear model used accounted for more than 98% of the variability in the inactivation of S. typhimurium.
