Growth control of Listeria monocytogenes on cold-smoked salmon using a competitive lactic acid bacteria flora.	A Lactobacillus sake strain LKE5 and four strains of Carnobacterium piscicola were evaluated as biopreservation cultures to control the growth of Listeria monocytogenes on vacuum-packed, cold-smoked salmon stored at 5 degrees C. All five strains were antilisterial as live cultures in an agar diffusion assay. Cell-free supernatants of two strains of C. piscicola and L. sake LKE5 were also antilisterial because of the production of bacteriocins. The presence of high cell numbers of strains of C. piscicola had no influence on the sensory quality of cold-smoked salmon stored at 5 degrees C, but L. sake LKE5 caused strong sulfurous off-flavors and was rejected as a culture for biopreservation of cold-smoked salmon. A bacteriocin-producing strain of C. piscicola (A9b) initially caused a 7-day lag phase of L. monocytogenes, followed by a reduction in numbers of L. monocytogenes from 10(3) CFU/ml to below 10 CFU/ml after 32 days of incubation, coinciding with the detection of antilisterial compounds. The presence of a nonbacteriocin-producing strain of C. piscicola (A10a) prevented the growth of L. monocytogenes during the 32-day incubation. The growth of L. monocytogenes was strongly repressed on cold-smoked salmon in the presence of C. piscicola A9b and A 10a, respectively. The initial cell numbers of L. monocytogenes that were found on Oxford plates incubated at 25 degrees C reached low maximum cell counts of 10(4) and 2 x 10(3) after 14 and 20 days of storage in mixed culture with C. piscicola A9b and A10a.
Genetic variability among isolates of Listeria monocytogenes from food products, clinical samples and processing environments, estimated by RAPD typing.	RAPD analysis with four primers was used to examine the genetic relationship among 432 strains of Listeria monocytogenes isolated from clinical and veterinarian cases of listeriosis, dairy, vegetable, meat- and fish-based food items, environmental samples and samples collected from one transport terminal, one poultry-processing company and four Atlantic salmon-processing plants. The purpose of the study was to determine whether clinical isolates belonged to a specific genetic group, whether links could be made between food groups and clinical cases and whether specific genetic groups were associated with specific food products or processing units. There was great genetic variability among the isolates, which produced a total of 141 RAPD composites based on the RAPD analysis with four primers. The RAPD composites divided in two major clusters and clinical isolates were evenly distributed in both of them. None of the isolates from food products had the same RAPD composite as isolates from human patients, thus, no particular food commodity could be linked to clinical cases. Each food-processing environment was contaminated with more than one RAPD composite and the genetic variability found within each company was, in most cases, of approximately the same magnitude as the variability found when considering all the samples. In each plant, one or a few types persisted over time, indicating the presence of an established in-house flora. Our results indicate that most of the analysed cases of listeriosis were sporadic and, further, that these cases cannot be traced to a few specific food sources. We also found that no particular RAPD composite was better suited for survival in specific food types or food-processing environments, indicating that although differences may be found in virulence properties of individual strains, all L. monocytogenes must be treated as potentially harmful.
Characterization of pRAS1-like plasmids from atypical North American psychrophilic Aeromonas salmonicida.	Atypical psychrophilic Aeromonas salmonicida isolates were obtained from farmed and wild fish in Northeastern North America. These bacteria were isolated between 1992 and 2001 and carried tetracycline resistance (Tc(r)) plasmids of approximately 58 kb. The nine isolates had plasmids which could be divided into four groups based on the specific tetracycline resistance (tet) gene carried [tet(A) or tet(B)], incompatibility of the plasmid [IncU or other], whether the plasmid carried the IS6100 sequences, the sul1 gene, coding for sulfonamide resistance, the dfrA16 gene, coding for trimethoprim resistance, and/or carried a complete Tn1721, and their ability to transfer their Tc(r) plasmids to an Escherichia coli recipient at 15 degrees C. Five of the isolates, with genetically related Tc(r) plasmids, were able to transfer their plasmids to an E. coli recipient at frequencies ranging from 5.7x10(-4) to 2.8x10(-6) per recipient. The 1992 isolate carried a genetically distinct plasmid, which transferred at a slightly higher rate. The three remaining isolates carried one of two genetically different plasmids, which were unable to transfer to an E. coli recipient. Conjugal transfer at 15 degrees C is the lowest temperature that has been documented in bacteria.
Mapping of neutralizing epitopes on Renibacterium salmoninarum p57 by use of transposon mutagenesis and synthetic peptides.	Renibacterium salmoninarum is a gram-positive bacterium that causes bacterial kidney disease in salmonid fish. The virulence mechanisms of R. salmoninarum are not well understood. Production of a 57-kDa protein (p57) has been associated with isolate virulence and is a diagnostic marker for R. salmoninarum infection. Biological activities of p57 include binding to eukaryotic cells and immunosuppression. We previously isolated three monoclonal antibodies (4D3, 4C11, and 4H8) that neutralize p57 activity. These monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) bind to the amino-terminal region of p57 between amino acids 32 though 243; however, the precise locations of the neutralizing epitopes were not determined. Here, we use transposon mutagenesis to map the 4D3, 4C11, and 4H8 epitopes. Forty-five transposon mutants were generated and overexpressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). The ability of MAbs 4D3, 4H8, and 4C11 to bind each mutant protein was assessed by immunoblotting. Transposons inserting between amino acids 51 and 112 disrupted the 4H8 epitope. Insertions between residues 78 and 210 disrupted the 4C11 epitope, while insertions between amino acids 158 and 234 disrupted the 4D3 epitope. The three MAbs failed to bind overlapping, 15-mer peptides spanning these regions, suggesting that the epitopes are discontinuous in conformation. We conclude that recognition of secondary structure on the amino terminus of p57 is important for neutralization. The epitope mapping studies suggest directions for improvement of MAb-based immunoassays for detection of R. salmoninarum-infected fish.
Modification of a virulence-associated phenotype after growth of Listeria monocytogenes on food.	To assess the effect of different foods, which have been implicated or not in cases of listeriosis, on the in vitro virulence-associated phenotype level of different Listeria monocytogenes strains.
Heterogeneity in the genome RNAs and polypeptides of five members of a novel group of rotavirus-like viruses isolated from aquatic animals.	Biochemical characteristics of five rotavirus-like viruses isolated from striped bass (Morone saxatilis), turbot (Scophthalmus maximus), smelt (Osmerus mordax) and Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) in North America and Europe were compared. The genome of each isolate was composed of 11 segments of dsRNA and each isolate had a unique electropherotype in polyacrylamide gels. Agarose gel electrophoresis showed similar RNA profiles for all four isolates from North America, whereas the RNA profile of the isolate from Europe was different. Analysis of virion proteins revealed that each virus had five structural proteins ranging in Mr from 130,000 to 34,000. Each isolate had a unique polypeptide profile but their overall polypeptide patterns were similar. Reciprocal RNA-RNA blot hybridization demonstrated that all these rotavirus-like viruses cross-hybridized with each other except for the isolate from Europe which did not hybridize with the RNA from any of the other isolates. No genetic relationship was found between these rotavirus-like viruses of fish and a true group A rotavirus (SA11).
Effectiveness of chitosan-coated plastic films incorporating antimicrobials in inhibition of Listeria monocytogenes on cold-smoked salmon.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of chitosan-coated plastic films incorporating five Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) antimicrobials (nisin, sodium lactate (SL), sodium diacetate (SD), potassium sorbate (PS) and sodium benzoate (SB)) against Listeria monocytogenes on cold-smoked salmon. Salmon samples were surface-inoculated with a five-strain cocktail of L. monocytogenes and packaged in chitosan-coated plastic films containing 500 IU/cm(2) of nisin, 9 mg/cm(2) of SL, 0.5 mg/cm(2) of SD, 0.6 mg/cm(2) of PS, or 0.2 mg/cm(2) of SB, and stored at room temperature (ca. 20 degrees C) for 10 days. The film incorporating SL was the most effective, completely inhibiting the growth of L. monocytogenes during 10 days of storage. L. monocytogenes in samples packaged in the other four antimicrobial films grew, but the increase in counts was lower than the control. The antilisterial efficacy of films containing lower concentrations of SL (2.3 mg/cm(2) and 4.5 mg/cm(2)) and binary combinations SL, PS, SD, SB and nisin were subsequently evaluated. Among all the treatments, chitosan-coated plastic films with 4.5 mg/cm(2) SL, 4.5 mg/cm(2) SL-0.6 mg/cm(2) PS and 2.3 mg/cm(2) SL-500 IU/cm(2) nisin were the most effective. These three most effective antimicrobial films were then tested at refrigerated temperature. They completely inhibited the growth of L. monocytogenes on smoked salmon for at least 6 weeks. Chitosan-coated plastic films containing 4.5 mg/cm(2) SL can potentially assist the smoked-salmon processing industry in their efforts to control L. monocytogenes.
Seasonal variation in presence of Vibrio salmonicida and total bacterial counts in Norwegian fish-farm water.	Total bacterial counts and the number of the fish pathogenic bacterium Vibrio salmonicida have been studied in water samples collected twice a month in 12 Norwegian fish farms from October 1988 to June 1989. Total counts were determined by staining with 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole followed by epifluorescence microscopy. Cells of V. salmonicida were enumerated with a fluorescent antibody technique using highly specific monoclonal antibodies. Despite the fact that no outbreak of cold-water vibriosis was reported, V. salmonicida was detected in all 12 farms, in numbers ranging from 12 to 43 bacteria/mL. The number of farms where V. salmonicida was detected was generally highest during the winter. Total bacterial counts in the water samples varied between 4 X 10(4) and 9 X 10(5) bacteria/mL and the lowest numbers occurred during the winter period. The total bacterial counts were comparable with counts in water uninfluenced by fish farming. On the basis of our results, and additional information available about cold-water vibriosis caused by the bacterium V. salmonicida, an asymptomatic carrier state of the disease is proposed.
Modelling of integrated anoxic-anaerobic-aerobic treatment for salmon fishery wastewater in an upflow fixed-bed biofilm reactor.	Literature has paid scarce attention to the modelling of the integrated anoxic-anaerobic-aerobic process in upflow fixed-bed biofilm reactors used to treat wastewater. The present study developed a model for industrial salmon fishery wastewater treatment in an integrated anoxic-anaerobic-aerobic upflow fixed-bed biofilm reactor. The model successfully predicted the removal efficiency of both Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) and nitrogen for two recycle ratios at steady state. The simulation study shows that the COD removal efficiency is not affected by any parameter under the studied conditions, while the nitrogen removal efficiency is affected by the hydraulic retention time (HRT) and the inlet COD concentration, where Total Ammonia Nitrogen (TAN) is the most sensitive variable of the anoxic-anaerobic-aerobic system. The conditions that best obtained removal efficiencies above 70% are: recycle rate between 1 and 2; HRT between 1.4 and 2.2 days and inlet COD concentrations lower than 2500 mg COD L(-1). Analysis of the model's sensitivity indicated that the parameters that exert most influence on the model for the system were micro(max,M), k(h), micro(max,H), eta(NO3-), micro(NOB), K(DO)NOB and D(DO).
Bench-top validation testing of selected immunological and molecular Renibacterium salmoninarum diagnostic assays by comparison with quantitative bacteriological culture.	No gold standard assay exhibiting error-free classification of results has been identified for detection of Renibacterium salmoninarum, the causative agent of salmonid bacterial kidney disease. Validation of diagnostic assays for R. salmoninarum has been hindered by its unique characteristics and biology, and difficulties in locating suitable populations of reference test animals. Infection status of fish in test populations is often unknown, and it is commonly assumed that the assay yielding the most positive results has the highest diagnostic accuracy, without consideration of misclassification of results. In this research, quantification of R. salmoninarum in samples by bacteriological culture provided a standardized measure of viable bacteria to evaluate analytical performance characteristics (sensitivity, specificity and repeatability) of non-culture assays in three matrices (phosphate-buffered saline, ovarian fluid and kidney tissue). Non-culture assays included polyclonal enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), direct smear fluorescent antibody technique (FAT), membrane-filtration FAT, nested polymerase chain reaction (nested PCR) and three real-time quantitative PCR assays. Injection challenge of specific pathogen-free Chinook salmon, Oncorhynchus tshawytscha (Walbaum), with R. salmoninarum was used to estimate diagnostic sensitivity and specificity. Results did not identify a single assay demonstrating the highest analytical and diagnostic performance characteristics, but revealed strengths and weaknesses of each test. 
Commercial biopreservatives combined with salt and sugar to control Listeria monocytogenes during smoked salmon processing.	Three commercial antimicrobials, applied during the salting stage in the preparation of cold-smoked salmon, were investigated for their effect on the behavior of Listeria monocytogenes. Fresh salmon inoculated with L. monocytogenes INIA 2530 was treated with three bacteriocin-based commercial biopreservatives, which were applied in combination with a salt-sugar mix. The product was kept at 8°C for 7 days. L. monocytogenes grew by approximately 3 log CFU/g in control salmon (without the salt-sugar mix or biopreservatives). Pathogen levels were reduced by the three biopreservatives investigated. After 7 days at 8°C, L. monocytogenes counts in salmon treated with biopreservatives combined with the salt-sugar mix were significantly lower than those observed in salmon treated with only salt and sugar. At the end of storage, salmon treated with biopreservative derived from Pediococcus acidilactici had pathogen levels 3.6 log CFU/g lower than in control salmon (without the salt-sugar mix) and 1.5 log CFU/g lower than in the samples treated with only salt and sugar. The application of commercial biopreservatives to fresh salmon during the dry-salting stage might help control L. monocytogenes growth, thus enhancing the safety of cold-smoked salmon during refrigerated storage. 
Optimization of combinations of bactericidal and bacteriostatic treatments to control Listeria monocytogenes on cold-smoked salmon.	Contamination of cold-smoked salmon by Listeria monocytogenes is a major concern for the seafood industry. The objectives of this study were to (i) determine the most effective bactericidal treatment for L. monocytogenes on salmon and (ii) optimize bactericidal and bacteriostatic treatment combinations to identify cost-effective treatments against L. monocytogenes on salmon. L. monocytogenes challenge trials were conducted in brain heart infusion (BHI) and on salmon disks that were supplemented with bactericidal compounds nisin (NIS), lauric arginate (LAE), ε-polylysine (EPL), and chitosan (CHIT). Subsequently, the most effective bactericidal compound was further tested by concurrent application of a blend of organic acid salts containing potassium lactate and sodium diacetate (PLSDA). L. monocytogenes populations were measured at 7 °C over 60 days, and initial cell density (N₀), maximum initial log reduction (Nr), lag phase (λ), maximum growth rate (μmax), and maximum cell density (Nmax) over 60 days storage were estimated. Time to recover to initial cell density (Tinitial) was also compared for combinations of bactericidal and bacteriostatic treatments. Varying degrees of antimicrobial effects were observed with bactericidal compounds in BHI. However, when tested on salmon, only NIS significantly decreased initial L. monocytogenes populations by approximately 2 log CFU/g, and reduced Nmax by approximately 1.5 logCFU/g compared to untreated control (CTRL). Nr achieved by the combined treatment of NIS and PLSDA was approximately 2 log CFU/g regardless of the presence of PLSDA, and a dose-dependent increase in Nr was observed with increasing NIS concentrations. PLSDA alone or in combination with 20 ppm NIS was most effective at delaying growth of L. monocytogenes. The greatest reduction in Nmax was observed with the combination of 20 ppm NIS and PLSDA; Nmax was 3.1 log CFU/g lower compared to CTRL. Comparison of Tinitial indicated that PLSDA with NIS can effectively retard growth of L. monocytogenes to its initial level (following initial reduction) and offers a cost benefit over using high concentrations of NIS alone. In summary, the combined application of NIS (for a bactericidal effect) and PLSDA (for a bacteriostatic effect) proved to be an effective treatment option to reduce initial levels as well as minimize subsequent growth of L. monocytogenes throughout the expected shelf-life of cold-smoked salmon.
Three beta-lactamases isolated from Aeromonas salmonicida, including a carbapenemase not detectable by conventional methods.	The beta-lactamases of seven strains of Aeromonas salmonicida subsp. achromogenes resistant to amoxicillin (MIC > 1024 mg/l) and responsible for furunculosis in farmed Atlantic salmon in Scotland were examined to establish the mechanisms of beta-lactam resistance. Separation of a cell-free extract on an isoelectric focusing gel stained with the chromogenic cephalosporin nitrocefin showed the presence of two beta-lactamases, one with a pI of 7.9 and the other with a pI of 6.0. Hydrolysis assays of cell-free extracts of these strains demonstrated carbapenemase, penicillinase and cephalosporinase activity. However, when the beta-lactamases were separated by anion exchange chromatography, the carbapenemase activity could not be retrieved in either of the peak fractions containing the separated enzymes that had been visualised by nitrocefin. Consequently, a novel carbapenemase was discovered which cannot be detected with nitrocefin.
The comparative characteristics of the antibiotic sensitivity of psychrophilic and mesophilic aeromonads]	The general regularities of the antibiotic susceptibility of psychrophilic and mesophilic aeromonads were determined. The antibioticograms were in general similar. Still, there was observed a higher susceptibility of Aeromonas salmonicida to tetracycline, chloramphenicol and rifampicin, as well as a larger number of strains susceptible to semisynthetic broad spectrum penicillins (ampicillin and carbenicillin) and cephazoline. The susceptibility to aminoglycosides was lower.
Assessment of the antimicrobial sensitivity of Aeromonas salmonicida isolates from farmed Atlantic salmon in Scotland.	Sixty-five isolates of Aeromonas salmonicida were assessed for antimicrobial sensitivity by disc diffusion tests and the results compared with the minimum inhibitory concentration for each isolate. The results demonstrated that disc diffusion, using a standard technique, may be used to categorize isolates as sensitive or resistant provided that the corresponding minimum inhibitory concentrations are known.
Import risk assessment for salmon meat.	The authors discuss the risk assessment currently being conducted by the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service (AQIS) on the importation of salmon products. AQIS conducted a public consultation on the proposal, in line with Australian Government policy on transparency and accountability in the quarantine decision-making process. The authors examine the factors which should be taken into account in the assessment of the risk associated with the importation of such products, and note the difficulties encountered with the epidemiology of fish diseases.
Prevalence of Listeria monocytogenes and other Listeria spp.in smoked and 'gravad' fish.	Altogether 150 samples of vacuum-packed fish were examined for the presence of Listeria species. Listeria monocytogenes were isolated from 12 of 58 'gravad' fish samples, 3 of 26 cold-smoked and one of 66 hot-smoked fish samples. Ten of these 16 positive samples harboured more than 100 L. monocytogenes cfu/g. The highest level (132,000) was found in a sample of hot-smoked rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). Serogroup 1/2 was most frequently found, followed by 4 and 3. One sample of gravad rainbow trout harboured more than one serogroup of L. monocytogenes. L. innocua and L. seeligeri were isolated from 12 and 1 samples, respectively.
Visceral mycosis in Chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tschawytscha) due to Sporobolomyces salmonicolor.	One-month-old Chinook salmon fry from a cold-water hatchery were presented live for euthanasia and necropsy. Gross lesions were emaciation in 90% of the fry and ascites and increased cutaneous pigmentation in the remaining 10%. A cause for the emaciation was not determined. Histologically, the fry with ascites and increased pigmentation had visceral mycosis with aerocystitis, myositis, peritonitis, and dermatitis. Sporobolomyces salmonicolor, a rare human pathogen, was isolated and identified in tissue sections from affected fry.
False-positive fluorescence by pink salmon tissue and staphylococci in a rapid test for Escherichia coli.	Fluorescence from 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-D-glucuronide (MUG) hydrolysis is a common, rapid method for determining Escherichia coli in water and food. False-positive fluorescence occurred when either pink salmon fillets were tested or beta-glucuronidase-positive Staphylococcus species were present in other fish products. Salmon fillet, E. coli, S. xylosus, and S. warneri produced 2, 17, 39, and 43 nmol of 4-methylumbelliferone per ml, respectively, in a one-step detection broth (lauryl salts tryptose broth with MUG) for E. coli after 48 h at 35 degrees C. These false-positive reactions need to be considered when testing fish products, especially those contaminated through human handling.
Conservative prediction of time to Clostridium botulinum toxin formation for use with time-temperature indicators to ensure the safety of foods.	Integrating-type time-temperature indicators (TTIs) may be utilized to warn food processors and consumers about storage conditions that may have rendered a food potentially hazardous. As an example of how integrated TTIs could be manufactured to emulate an infinite set of time-temperature situations, a set of conditions which have supported C. botulinum growth and toxin production was compiled. The time-temperature curve representing conservative times required for toxin formation was constructed with data from literature relating to toxin formation as a function of temperature in any media or food product. This set of critical time-temperature data is fit by a conservative empirical relationship that can be used to predict combinations of incubation times and storage temperatures that represent a potential health risk from C. botulinum in foods. A TTI could be constructed to indicate deviation from such a given set of conditions to bring attention to foods that may have been exposed to potentially hazardous temperatures with respect to C. botulinum toxin formation.
