Hereditary gynecologic cancers: risk assessment, counseling, testing and management.	Gynecologists and gynecologic oncologists have a major role in identifying patients at increased risk of inherited cancer syndromes. Awareness of the biological and familial risk factors is useful in this practice, and can assist patients and families in navigating the follow-up for these complex disorders. Large national and international cohorts of women with known BRCA1/2 mutations or high risk continue to collect data in an attempt to better understand genetic risk, risk modifiers, and quality-of-life impact or screening, testing and risk reduction strategies. The Consortium of Investigators of Modifiers of BRCA1/2 is beginning to identify other genetic modifiers of BRCA1/2 risk and cancer cluster regions in an attempt to better individualize site specific cancer risk and prevention strategies. The Gynecologic Oncology Group has initiated along-term follow-up study to the Gynecologic Oncology Group 199 protocol, which will continue to advance understanding of patient decisions, quality-of-life impact, and other genetic factors responsible for cancer initiation and progression. These and other large consortia are invaluable resources with massive datasets requiring herculean analyses that will continue to rapidly advance our present knowledge and management of women with hereditary cancer syndromes.
Borderline mucinous cystic ovarian tumor with mural nodules (carcinosarcoma).	Carcinosarcoma mural nodules arising form a mucinous ovarian neoplasm is very rare and only two published cases have been reported. We report a case of a 29-year-old female patient who suffered from severe lower abdominal pain unrelated to menstruation for 1 year. She came to our (Shin-Kong Hospital) gynecology outpatient department in February 2010. The CT scan revealed a large cystic tumor, measuring approximately 36 cm in greatest dimension and at least 2 solid foci were noted. The patient underwent left salpingo-oophorectomy. A carcinosarcoma mural nodule arising within a mucinous ovarian neoplasm was diagnosed. The patient was treated by further chemotherapy and was free of the disease at time of publication. We reviewed the published studies, and in particular looked at the histology and immunohistochemistry of tumors, in which sarcomatoid carcinoma and carcinosarcoma like nodules were diagnosed. We also discussed the differential diagnosis of the mural nodule in a mucinous cystic neoplasm.
A case of true tubal hydatidiform mole and literature review.	Tubal hydatidiform mole is an uncommon condition with about 40 confirmed cases in the accessible literature. The patient usually presents with symptoms and signs of a classical ectopic pregnancy and it is only after histological examination and DNA ploidy analysis of the conceptus that a hydatidiform mole is diagnosed. Management requires complete removal of the conceptus and follow-up needs to be arranged with an appropriate supraregional centre. The authors present a case of complete molar tubal pregnancy and a review of the literature.
Robot assisted surgery in gynaecologic oncology - starting a program and initial learning curve from a UK tertiary referral centre: the Guildford perspective.	The paper discusses the setup and evaluation of early data following the establishment of a robotic surgery programme in a UK gynaecological oncology cancer centre.
Optical introscopy is a new diagnostic technique in reproductive medicine]	The WHO classification's concept "infertility of unclear genesis" is due to a number of circumstances. On the one hand, this is a preponderance of the subtle forms of diseases, which are a cause of female infertility, including the subclinical forms of small pelvic inflammatory diseases (SPID). On the other hand, this is an imperfection of existing diagnostic methods. Laparoscopy considered to be the gold standard demonstrates a not very high efficiency in diagnosing SPID because of its low sensitivity. In practice, laparoscopic diagnosis of SPID is combined with ultrasound study, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance tomography. This paper proposes to use optical coherent tomography (OCT) in addition to laparoscopy. OCT makes it possible to noninvasively in real time obtain information on the internal structure of biological tissues with a resolution of 10-15 pm at a depth of at least 2 mm. Removable endoscopic probes make OCT compatible with standard endoscopic studies. The use of OCT during laparoscopy yielded optical images of the internal structure of the fallopian tube wall in different conditions: unaltered fallopian tubes; an acute inflammatory process with pronounced changes; minimal manifestations of fallopian tube inflammatory changes. Based on the comparative analysis of OCT data and histological findings, the authors elaborated OCT criteria for health and disease. A blind test indicated the high diagnostic efficacy of the technique. The additional processing of images makes it possible to objectify the data and to automate the optical introscopic technique proposed by the authors.
A rare cause of acute abdominal pain in adolescence: hydrosalpinx leading to isolated torsion of fallopian tube.	Torsion of the fallopian tube accompanying hydrosalpinx is a rare occurrence in the pediatric population. This report describes a 13 year old sexually inactive girl with isolated tubal torsion due to hydrosalpinx. The girl had lower left abdominal pain for two days. The physical examination revealed left lower quadrant tenderness with a firm round anterior mass on rectal examination. Abdominal ultrasound showed left tubal enlargement with free pelvic peritoneal fluid. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) showed engorgement and dilatation of the left fallopian tube without contrast enhancement suspicious of tubal torsion. At operation, torsion of the left tube on its longitudinal axis was observed, and a salpingectomy was performed. Although rare, the diagnosis of torsion of the fallopian tube should be considered when evaluating acute abdominal pain. The earlier tubal torsion is diagnosed, the greater the likelihood of salvaging the fallopian tube.
Vaginal hysterectomies in patients without uterine prolapse: ten-year experience.	To review the results of vaginal hysterectomies in patients without uterine prolapse.
Single-port surgery and adnexal procedures: which indications in oncological surgery?]	To show the interest of single trocar in order to perform uni- or bilateral salpingo-oophorectomies.
Single-site laparoscopic management of a large adnexal mass.	Single-site laparoscopy is gaining acceptance in many surgical fields including gynecology. The purpose of this report is to demonstrate the technique and outcome for removing a large adnexal mass through a single site.
Enterobius vermicularis infection of the ovary.	Enterobius vermicularis is an intestinal parasite, which may occasionally involve extraintestinal sites including the female genital tract. We report a rare case of ovarian involvement, which presented with chronic right iliac fossa pain in a 31-year-old woman. A transvaginal ultrasound scan was suggestive of a right adnexal dermoid cyst; however, histological examination of the subsequent salpingo-oophorectomy specimen showed an abscess containing viable E. vermicularis ova. E. vermicularis is the most prevalent human nematode worldwide. Its ova are ingested, larvae hatch and mature female worms journey to the perianal region where they lay eggs. Female worms may also migrate from the anus along the female genital tract. Although of low pathogenicity, complications such as infertility or peritonitis may arise.
