Generation and analysis of expressed sequence tags from a NaHCO3-treated Limonium bicolor cDNA library.	Limonium bicolor, a halophytic species of Plumbaginaceae, can thrive in saline or saline-alkali (sodic) soil, demonstrating that it has developed an efficient saline-alkali resistance system, and is an ideal material for the study of saline-alkali tolerance. In order to identify and characterize the complexity of this adaptation, expressed sequence tags (ESTs) analysis and real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were conducted. We constructed a cDNA library of L. bicolor exposed to 0.4M NaHCO3 for 48h, and obtained 2358 ESTs, representing 1735 unique genes. A BLASTX search revealed that 1393 ESTs, representing 873 unique genes, showed significant similarity (E-values <10(-4)) to protein sequences in the non-redundant database. These ESTs were further grouped into 12 functional categories according to their functional annotation. The most abundant categories were metabolism (18.74%), photosynthesis (14.86%), unknown classification (12.20%), defense (12.20%), and transport facilitation (10.19%). In total, 286 putative abiotic stress related transcripts, representing 121 unique genes, were identified. Among them, the two most abundant genes encoded metallothionein (EH794553) and lipid transfer protein (EH794695), each of which accounted for 1.4% of the total ESTs. The expression of 18 putative stress-related genes were further analyzed in roots and leaves of L. bicolor using real-time RT-PCR, and 14 genes were differentially expressed by more than 2-fold as a result of the NaHCO3 stress. The results of this study may contribute to our understanding of the molecular mechanism of saline-alkali tolerance in L. bicolor.
Restoration of cerebral vascular relaxation in renin congenic rats by introgression of the Dahl R renin gene.	This study determined whether transfer of the renin gene from the Dahl salt-resistant (Dahl R) strain into the Dahl salt-sensitive (SS) genetic background restores the relaxation of middle cerebral arteries (MCAs) to different vasodilator stimuli in S/renRR renin congenic (SS.SR-(D13N1 and Syt2)/Mcwi) (RGRR) rats maintained on low-salt (0.4% NaCl) diet.
TaSRG, a wheat transcription factor, significantly affects salt tolerance in transgenic rice and Arabidopsis.	Based on our microarray-analysis results of the salt tolerant wheat mutant, RH8706-49, an unknown salt-induced gene containing a conserved DUF662 domain was identified and cloned; we named this gene TaSRG (Triticum aestivum Salt Response Gene). Real-time quantitative PCR analyses showed that the expression of this gene was affected by salt, drought, cold, ABA and other stress conditions. The overexpression of TaSRG in wild-type Arabidopsis resulted in increased salt tolerance compared with wild-type plants. In addition, subcellular localisation revealed that TaSRG encodes a protein that was found mainly in the nucleus. Our results suggest that wheat TaSRG might encode a transcription factor that could be utilised for enhancing stress tolerance in a wide range of plants.
Transcriptional profiling of Medicago truncatula under salt stress identified a novel CBF transcription factor MtCBF4 that plays an important role in abiotic stress responses.	Salt stress hinders the growth of plants and reduces crop production worldwide. However, different plant species might possess different adaptive mechanisms to mitigate salt stress. We conducted a detailed pathway analysis of transcriptional dynamics in the roots of Medicago truncatula seedlings under salt stress and selected a transcription factor gene, MtCBF4, for experimental validation.
Towards much more efficient biofuel crops - can sugarcane pave the way?	A triple challenge will confront world plant production in a few forthcoming decades: population increase, worsening of growth conditions and changeover from fossil-based to renewable energy and raw materials. The challenge cannot be met without utilizing the best modern biological techniques, genetic modification included. In the current era of rapid environmental changes, plant breeding should take even greater responsibility for food, feed, fiber and fuels than in the past. There are good prospects for remarkable improvements in yield level and energy efficiency of plant production, as is exemplified with the cases of modern crop and especially sugarcane improvement in consideration. For example, sugar content, biomass yield, pest and disease resistance, environmental safety and resource use efficiency of biofuel crop production can be essentially improved on the basis of new genetic know-how and taking advantage of the richness of genetic resources available in the Plant Kingdom. In particular, the natural reservoir of 10,000 wild grass species should be exploited in the purest way possible, by means of modern and precise GM methods. Consequently, our vital needs in biofuel crop production can be fulfilled without increasing crop production areas untenably at the expense of the remaining wilderness or compromising food security in the world.
Genomic analysis of phospholipase D family and characterization of GmPLDαs in soybean (Glycine max).	Phospholipase D (PLD) and its product phosphatidic acid play important roles in the regulation of plant growth, development, and stress responses. The genome database analysis has revealed PLD family in Arabidopsis, rice, poplar and grape. In this study, we report a genomic analysis of 18 putative soybean (Glycine max) PLD genes (GmPLDs), which exist in the 14 of 20 chromosomes. GmPLDs were grouped into six types, α(3), β(4), γ, δ(5), ε(2), and ζ(3), based on gene architectures, protein domains, evolutionary relationship, and sequence identity. These GmPLDs contained two HKD domains, PX/PH domains (for GmPLDζs), and C2 domain (for the other GmPLDs). The expression patterns analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription PCR demonstrated that GmPLDs were expressed differentially in various tissues. GmPLDα1, α2, and β2 were highly expressed in most tissues, whereas GmPLDδ5 was only expressed in flowers and GmPLDζ1 was predominantly expressed in flowers and early pods. The expression of GmPLDα1 and α2 was increased and that of GmPLDγ was decreased by salt stress. GmPLDα1 protein expressed in E. coli was active under the reaction conditions for both PLDα and PLDδ, hydrolyzing the common membrane phospholipids phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylglycerol. The genomic analysis for soybean PLD family provides valuable data for further identity and characterization of their functions.
Molecular cloning and characterization of plasma membrane- and vacuolar-type Na⁺/H⁺ antiporters of an alkaline-salt-tolerant monocot, Puccinellia tenuiflora.	A better understanding of salt tolerance in plants might lead to the genetic engineering of crops that can grow in saline soils. Here we cloned and characterized plasma membrane and vacuolar Na⁺/H⁺ antiporters of a monocotyledonous alkaline-tolerant halophyte, Puccinellia tenuiflora. The predicted amino acid sequence of the transporters were very similar to those of orthologs in monocotyledonous crops. Expression analysis showed that (1) NHA was more strongly induced by NaCl in the roots of P. tenuiflora while in rice it was rather induced in the shoots, suggesting that the role of NHA in salt excretion from the roots partly accounts for the difference in the tolerance of the two species, and that (2) NHXs were specifically induced by NaHCO₃ but not by NaCl in the roots of both species, suggesting that vacuolar-type Na⁺/H⁺ antiporters play roles in pH regulation under alkaline salt conditions. Overexpression of the antiporters resulted in increased tolerance of shoots to NaCl and roots to NaHCO₃. Overexpression lines exhibited a lower Na⁺ content and a higher K⁺ content in shoots under NaCl treatments, leading to a higher Na⁺/H⁺ ratio.
Reduced tillering in Basmati rice T-DNA insertional mutant OsTEF1 associates with differential expression of stress related genes and transcription factors.	A T-DNA insertional mutant OsTEF1 of rice gives 60-80% reduced tillering, retarded growth of seminal roots, and sensitivity to salt stress compared to wild type Basmati 370. The insertion occurred in a gene encoding a transcription elongation factor homologous to yeast elf1, on chromosome 2 of rice. Detailed transcriptomic profiling of OsTEF1 revealed that mutation in the transcription elongation factor differentially regulates the expression of more than 100 genes with known function and finely regulates tillering process in rice by inducing the expression of cytochrome P450. Along with different transcription factors, several stress associated genes were also affected due to a single insertion. In silico analysis of the TEF1 protein showed high conservation among different organisms. This transcription elongation factor predicted to interact with other proteins that directly or indirectly positively regulate tillering in rice.
AtPP2CG1, a protein phosphatase 2C, positively regulates salt tolerance of Arabidopsis in abscisic acid-dependent manner.	AtPP2CG1 (Arabidopsis thaliana protein phosphatase 2C G Group 1) was predicted as an abiotic stress candidate gene by bioinformatic analysis in our previous study. The gene encodes a putative protein phosphatase 2C that belongs to Group G of PP2C. There is no report of Group G genes involved in abiotic stress so far. Real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that AtPP2CG1 expression was induced by salt, drought, and abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. The expression levels of AtPP2CG1 in the ABA synthesis-deficient mutant abi2-3 were much lower than that in WT plants under salt stress suggesting that the expression of AtPP2CG1 acts in an ABA-dependent manner. Over-expression of AtPP2CG1 led to enhanced salt tolerance, whereas its loss of function caused decreased salt tolerance. These results indicate that AtPP2CG1 positively regulates salt stress in an ABA-dependent manner. Under salt treatment, AtPP2CG1 up-regulated the expression levels of stress-responsive genes, including RD29A, RD29B, DREB2A and KIN1. GUS activity was detected in roots, leaves, stems, flower, and trichomes of AtPP2CG1 promoter-GUS transgenic plants. AtPP2CG1 protein was localized in nucleus and cytoplasm via AtPP2CG1:eGFP and YFP:AtPP2CG1 fusion approaches.
Mechanisms of the selenium tolerance of the Arabidopsis thaliana knockout mutant of sulfate transporter SULTR1;2.	We investigated the mechanism of selenium (Se) tolerance using an Arabidopsis thaliana knockout mutant of a sulfate transporter, sultr1;2. Se stress inhibited plant growth, decreased chlorophyll contents, and increased protein oxidation and lipid peroxidation in the wild type, whereas the sultr1;2 mutation mitigated damage of these forms, indicating that sultr1;2 is more tolerant of Se than the wild type is. The accumulation of symplastic Se was suppressed in sultr1;2 as compared to the wild type, and the chemical speciation of Se in the mutant was different from that in the wild type. Regardless of Se stress, the activities of ascorbate peroxidase, catalase, and peroxidase in the mutant were higher than in the wild type, while the activity of superoxide dismutase in the mutant was the same as in the wild type. These results suggest that the sultr1;2 mutation confers Se tolerance on Arabidopsis by decreasing symplastic Se and maintaining antioxidant enzyme activities.
Salt-sensitive and salt-tolerant barley varieties differ in the extent of potentiation of the ROS-induced K(+) efflux by polyamines.	Generation of high levels of polyamines and reactive oxygen species (ROS) is common under stress conditions. Our recent study on a salt-sensitive pea species revealed an interaction between natural polyamines and hydroxyl radicals in inducing non-selective conductance and stimulating Ca(2+)-ATPase pumps at the root plasma membrane (I. Zepeda-Jazo, A.M. Velarde-Buendía, R. Enríquez-Figueroa, B. Jayakumar, S. Shabala, J. Muñiz, I. Pottosin, Polyamines interact with hydroxyl radicals in activating Ca2+ and K+ transport across the root epidermal plasma membranes, Plant Phys. 157 (2011) 1-14). In this work, we extended that study to see if interaction between polyamines and ROS may determine the extent of genotypic variation in salinity tolerance. This work was conducted using barley genotypes contrasting in salinity tolerance. Similar to our findings in pea, application of hydroxyl radicals-generating Cu(2+)/ascorbate mixture induced transient Ca(2+) and K(+) fluxes in barley roots. Putrescine and spermine alone induced only transient Ca(2+) efflux and negligible K(+) flux. However, both putrescine and spermine strongly potentiated hydroxyl radicals-induced K(+) efflux and respective non-selective current. This synergistic effect was much more pronounced in a salt-sensitive cultivar Franklin as compared to a salt-tolerant TX9425. As retention of K(+) under salt stress is a key determinant of salinity tolerance in barley, we suggest that the alteration of cytosolic K(+) homeostasis, caused by interaction between polyamines and ROS, may have a substantial contribution to genetic variability in salt sensitivity in this species.
Genome-wide characterization of the CBF/DREB1 gene family in Brassica rapa.	The C-repeat/dehydration-responsive element binding transcription factors (CBF/DREBs) are important proteins in involved in responses to abiotic stress in plants. We identified ten BrDREB1 genes belonging to the CBF/DREB1 gene family in the Brassica rapa whole genome sequence, whereas six genes are found in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome. The deduced amino acid sequences of the B. rapa genes showed conserved motifs shared with other known plant CBF/DREB1s. Comparative analysis revealed that nine of the BrDREB1 genes were derived from the recent genome triplication in the tribe Brassiceae and the other one was translocated. The nine genes were located in seven of the 12 macrosyntenic blocks that are triplicated counterparts of four Arabidopsis macrosyntenic blocks harboring six CBF/DREB1 genes: one gene on each of three blocks and three tandemly arrayed genes on another block. We inspected the expression patterns of eight BrDREB1 genes by RT-PCR and microarray database searches. All eight genes were highly up-regulated during cold (4 °C) treatment, and some of them were also responsive to salt (250 mM NaCl), drought (air drying), and ABA (100 μM) treatment. Microarray data for plant developmental stages revealed that BrDREB1C2 was highly expressed during a period of cold treatment for vernalization, similar to abiotic stress-inducible genes homologous to Bn28a, Bn47, Bn115, and BoRS1, but almost opposite of BrFLC genes. Taken together, the number of BrDREB1 genes increased to 10 by genome triplication and reorganization, providing additional functions in B. rapa abiotic stress responses and development, as distinct from their Arabidopsis homologs.
Uncovering the salt response of soybean by unraveling its wild and cultivated functional genomes using tag sequencing.	Soil salinity has very adverse effects on growth and yield of crop plants. Several salt tolerant wild accessions and cultivars are reported in soybean. Functional genomes of salt tolerant Glycine soja and a salt sensitive genotype of Glycine max were investigated to understand the mechanism of salt tolerance in soybean. For this purpose, four libraries were constructed for Tag sequencing on Illumina platform. We identify around 490 salt responsive genes which included a number of transcription factors, signaling proteins, translation factors and structural genes like transporters, multidrug resistance proteins, antiporters, chaperons, aquaporins etc. The gene expression levels and ratio of up/down-regulated genes was greater in tolerant plants. Translation related genes remained stable or showed slightly higher expression in tolerant plants under salinity stress. Further analyses of sequenced data and the annotations for gene ontology and pathways indicated that soybean adapts to salt stress through ABA biosynthesis and regulation of translation and signal transduction of structural genes. Manipulation of these pathways may mitigate the effect of salt stress thus enhancing salt tolerance.
A novel abi5 allele reveals the importance of the conserved Ala in the C3 domain for regulation of downstream genes and salt tolerance during germination in Arabidopsis.	Abscisic acid (ABA) signal transduction during Arabidopsis seed development and germination requires a Group A bZIP transcription factor encoded by ABA INSENSITIVE5 (ABI5). In addition to the basic leucine zipper DNA binding domain, Group A bZIPs are characterized by three N-terminal conserved regions (C1, C2 and C3) and one C-terminal conserved region (C4). These conserved regions are considered to play roles in ABI5 functions; however, except for the phosphorylation site, the importance of the highly conserved amino acids is unclear. Here, we report a novel abi5 recessive allele (abi5-9) that encodes an intact ABI5 protein with one amino acid substitution (A214G) in the C3 domain. The abi5-9 plants showed ABA insensitivity during germination and could germinate on medium containing 175 mM NaCl or 500 mM mannitol. Em1 and Em6--both encoding late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins and directly targeted by ABI5 regulation--were expressed at very low levels in abi5-9 plants compared with the wild type. In yeast, the abi5-9 protein exhibited greatly reduced interaction with ABI3 compared with ABI5. These data suggest that Ala214 in ABI5 contributes to the function of ABI5 via its interaction with ABI3.
Polyploids exhibit higher potassium uptake and salinity tolerance in Arabidopsis.	Genome duplication (or polyploidization) has occurred throughout plant evolutionary history and is thought to have driven the adaptive radiation of plants. We found that the cytotype of the root, and not the genotype, determined the majority of heritable natural variation in leaf potassium (K) concentration in Arabidopsis thaliana. Autopolyploidy also provided resistance to salinity and may represent an adaptive outcome of the enhanced K accumulation of plants with higher ploidy. 
Evidence for the role of wheat eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit g (TaeIF3g) in abiotic stress tolerance.	The gene encoding eIF3g (TaeIF3g), one of the 11 subunits of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 (eIF3), was cloned from wheat for carrying out its functional analysis. Transgenic expression of TaeIF3g enhanced the tolerance of TaeIF3g-overexpressing parental yeast cells and Arabidopsis plants under different abiotic stress conditions. Compared to untransformed plants, TaeIF3g-overexpressing Arabidopsis thaliana plants exhibited significantly higher survival rate, soluble proteins and photosynthetic efficiency, and enhanced protection against photooxidative stress under drought conditions. This study provides first evidence that TaeIF3g imparts stress tolerance and could be a potential candidate gene for developing crop plants tolerant to abiotic stress.
Hormone profiling and transcription analysis reveal a major role of ABA in tomato salt tolerance.	The response and adaptation of plants to different environmental stresses are of great interest as they provide the key to understanding the mechanisms underlying stress tolerance. In this study, the changing patterns of four endogenous hormones and various physiological and biochemical parameters of both a salt-tolerant (LA2711) and a salt-sensitive (ZS-5) tomato cultivar were examined under salt stress and non-stress conditions. Additionally, the transcription of key genes in the abscisic acid (ABA) biosynthesis and metabolism were analyzed at different time points. The results indicated that gene expression responsible for ABA biosynthesis and metabolism coincided with the hormone level, and SlNCED1 and SlCYP707A3 may play major roles in the process. LA2711 performed superior to ZS-5 on various parameters, including seed germination, Na(+) compartmentation, selective absorption of K(+), and antioxidant enzymes activity. The difference in salt tolerance between the two genotypes could be attributed to the different levels of ABA due to differences in gene expression of key genes in ABA biosynthesis and metabolism. Although gibberellin, cytokinin and auxin were involved, our results indicated that ABA signaling plays a major role in tomato salt tolerance. As compared to ZS-5, LA2711 had a higher capability to selectively absorb and redistribute K(+) and a higher tolerance to Na(+) in young leaves, which may be the main physiological mechanisms of salt tolerance. 
Identification, expression pattern, cellular location and potential role of the caveolin-1 gene from Artemia sinica.	Caveolins are integral membrane proteins that serve as scaffolds to recruit numerous signaling molecules. Caveolins play an important role in membrane trafficking, signal transduction, substrate transport and endocytosis in differentiated cells. In this study, a caveolin-1 gene from Artemia sinica (As-cav-1) was successfully cloned for the first time. The full-length cDNA of As-cav-1 comprises 974 bp, with a 675 bp open reading frame (ORF) that encodes a polypeptide of 224 amino acids with a caveolin scaffolding domain (CSD) and two transmembrane domains. Multiple sequence alignment revealed that the putative As-CAV-1 protein sequence was relatively conserved across species, especially in the CSD domain. Real-time PCR revealed high levels of the As-cav-1 transcript at 0h of embryo development. Furthermore, As-cav-1 transcripts were highly upregulated under high salinity (200‰) and low temperature stresses (15°C). To further characterize As-cav-1, recombinant pET30a-cav-1 protein was expressed using a prokaryotic expression system. The recombinant protein comprised 290 amino acids with a theoretical molecular weight of 32kDa, and a predicted isoelectric point of 5.6. Western blotting of the expression levels of As-CAV-1 during different embryo development stages revealed that As-CAV-1 levels decreased gradually during development stages from 0 h to 40 h, and increased at 3d. Furthermore, western blotting showed that As-CAV-1 was upregulated to its highest expression level by low temperature stress (15°C) and high salinity. Confocal laser microscopy analysis, using antibodies generated against the recombinant As-CAV-1 protein, showed that As-CAV-1 was mostly located in the cell membrane. Our results suggested that As-cav-1 plays a vital role in protecting embryos from high salt damage and low temperature stress, especially during post-diapause embryonic development.
Transcriptome analysis of salt tolerant common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) under saline conditions.	Salinity is one of the important abiotic stress factors that limit crop production. Common bean, Phaseolus vulgaris L., a major protein source in developing countries, is highly affected by soil salinity and the information on genes that play a role in salt tolerance is scarce. We aimed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and related pathways by comprehensive analysis of transcriptomes of both root and leaf tissues of the tolerant genotype grown under saline and control conditions in hydroponic system. We have generated a total of 158 million high-quality reads which were assembled into 83,774 all-unigenes with a mean length of 813 bp and N50 of 1,449 bp. Among the all-unigenes, 58,171 were assigned with Nr annotations after homology analyses. It was revealed that 6,422 and 4,555 all-unigenes were differentially expressed upon salt stress in leaf and root tissues respectively. Validation of the RNA-seq quantifications (RPKM values) was performed by qRT-PCR (Quantitative Reverse Transcription PCR) analyses. Enrichment analyses of DEGs based on GO and KEGG databases have shown that both leaf and root tissues regulate energy metabolism, transmembrane transport activity, and secondary metabolites to cope with salinity. A total of 2,678 putative common bean transcription factors were identified and classified under 59 transcription factor families; among them 441 were salt responsive. The data generated in this study will help in understanding the fundamentals of salt tolerance in common bean and will provide resources for functional genomic studies. 
Cloning of a cytosolic ascorbate peroxidase gene from Lycium chinense Mill. and enhanced salt tolerance by overexpressing in tobacco.	To evaluate the physiological importance of cytosolic ascorbate peroxidase (APX) in the reactive oxygen species (ROS)-scavenging system, a full-length cDNA clone, named LmAPX, encoding a cytosolic ascorbate peroxidase was isolated from Lycium chinense Mill. using homologous cloning, then the expression of LmAPX under salt stress was investigated. After sequencing and related analysis, the LmAPX cDNA sequence was 965 bp in length and had an open reading frame (ORF) of 750 bp coding for 250 amino acids. Furthermore, the LmAPX sequence was sub-cloned into prokaryotic expression vector pET28a and the recombinant proteins had a high expression level in Escherichia coli. Results from a southern blot analysis indicated that three inserts of this gene existed in the tobacco genome encoding LmAPX. Compared with the control plants (wild-type and empty vector control), the transgenic plants expressing the LmAPX gene exhibited lower amount of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and relatively higher values of ascorbate peroxidase activity, proline content, and net photosynthetic rate (Pn) under the same salt stress. These results suggested that overexpression of the LmAPX gene could decrease ROS production caused by salt stress and protect plants from oxidative stress.
