Comparing different salt forms of rotigotine to improve transdermal iontophoretic delivery.	The transdermal delivery of a new salt form of the dopamine agonist rotigotine, rotigotine.H(3)PO(4) is presented and compared to rotigotine.HCl. A comparison was made on the level of solubility, passive and iontophoretic delivery. Different aspects of the delivery were investigated: delivery efficiency, maximum flux, donor pH, electro-osmotic contribution and transport number. Changing the salt form from rotigotine.HCl to rotigotine.H(3)PO(4) increases significantly the solubility and rules out the influence of NaCl on the solubility by the absence of the common-ion effect. At low donor concentration, no difference in transdermal delivery was observed between the salt forms. Due to an increase in the maximum solubility of rotigotine.H(3)PO(4), a 170% increase in maximum flux, compared to rotigotine.HCl, was achieved. A balance between solubility and delivery efficiency can be obtained by choosing the correct donor pH between 5 and 6. A slight increase in electro-osmotic contribution and transport number was observed. Using the parameters, determined by modeling the in vitro transport, in vivo simulations revealed that with iontophoresis therapeutic levels can be achieved with a rapid onset time and be maintained in a controlled manner by adjusting the current density.
Modifying the diffusion layer of soluble salts of poorly soluble basic drugs to improve dissolution performance.	The dissolution mechanism of soluble salts of poorly soluble bases can be complex because both the dissolution of the salt and precipitation of the free base can occur depending on the experimental conditions and properties of the molecule. The dissolution of three soluble salts of poorly soluble bases is described in this paper. Two of these compounds precipitate as free base under normal stomach pH conditions (pH from 2-4) during dissolution. This free base precipitation is a result of formation of free base on the surface of the dissolving salt. Diffusion Layer modulated (DLM) solids are defined and presented that can effectively counteract this precipitation mechanism. These DLM materials employ excipients in order to modify the pH or solubility conditions at the surface of the dissolving salt to minimize precipitation of the free base that can occur. Rotating disk dissolution data is presented which shows how these formulated solids can act to improve the dissolution profile for these materials.
Effects of differential supplementation of fatty acids during the peripartum and breeding periods of Holstein cows: II. Neutrophil fatty acids and function, and acute phase proteins.	The objectives were to evaluate the effects of differential supplementation of Ca salts (CS) of fatty acids (FA) on plasma acute phase proteins and both FA composition and function (i.e., activity and cytokine production) of neutrophils, during the peripartum and breeding periods. Holstein cows were assigned randomly to receive either CS of palm (PO) or safflower (SO) oils from 30 d prepartum until 35 d postpartum (dpp) and CS of PO or fish oil (FO) from 35 to 160 dpp. Supplementation of CS of FA was at 1.5% of dietary dry matter. Cows (n=32) were sampled three times weekly from parturition to 35 dpp for analyses of plasma concentrations of haptoglobin and fibrinogen. Cows (n=47) were sampled for neutrophil phagocytic and oxidative burst activities toward Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus, and neutrophil abundances of L-selectin and β(2)-integrin assessed by flow cytometry at 32 d prepartum, within 7h after parturition, and 4 and 7 dpp. Profiles of FA in neutrophils and cytokine production (i.e., tumor necrosis factor alpha, TNF-α, and IL-1β) were assessed prepartum (n=14), 35 (PO vs. SO; n=26) and 85 dpp (PO vs. FO; n=28). Plasma concentrations of haptoglobin and fibrinogen were greater for cows fed SO compared with PO. The percentage of neutrophils with phagocytic and oxidative burst activities was not affected by transition diets, but activities per neutrophil were greater in SO compared with PO diets at 4 (phagocytosis and oxidative burst) and 7 dpp (oxidative burst). Neutrophil abundance of L-selectin, but not β(2)-integrin, was greater in SO compared with PO at 4 and 7 dpp. Neutrophil productions of TNF-α and IL-1β were increased at 35 dpp in SO compared with PO diets, but production of TNF-α was attenuated in FO compared with PO at 85 dpp. Neutrophil ratios of n-6:n-3 FA were greater at 35 dpp in the SO diet and less at 85 dpp in FO compared with PO diets. In conclusion, cows supplemented with CS of SO had improved innate immunity (i.e., acute phase response and neutrophil function) to better cope with the bacterial challenges in the postpartum period. Conversely, CS of FO attenuated neutrophil cytokine production.
Alkaline salts to counteract bone resorption and protein wasting induced by high salt intake: results of a randomized controlled trial.	High sodium chloride (NaCl) intake can induce low-grade metabolic acidosis (LGMA) and may thus influence bone and protein metabolism. We hypothesized that oral potassium bicarbonate (KHCO(3)) supplementation may compensate for NaCl-induced, LGMA-associated bone resorption and protein losses. Eight healthy male subjects participated in a randomized trial with a crossover design. Each of two study campaigns consisted of 5 d of dietary and environmental adaptation followed by 10 d of intervention and 1.5 d of recovery. In one study campaign, 90 mmol KHCO(3)/d were supplemented to counteract NaCl-induced LGMA, whereas the other campaign served as a control with only high NaCl intake. When KHCO(3) was ingested during high NaCl intake, postprandial buffer capacity ([HCO(3)(-)]) increased (P = 0.002). Concomitantly, urinary excretion of free potentially bioactive glucocorticoids [urinary free cortisol (UFF) and urinary free cortisone (UFE)] was reduced by 14% [∑(UFF,UFE); P = 0.024]. Urinary excretion of calcium and bone resorption marker N-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen was reduced by 12 and 8%, respectively (calcium, P = 0.047; N-terminal bone collagen telopeptide, P = 0.044). There was a trend of declining net protein catabolism when high NaCl was combined with KHCO(3) (P = 0.052). We conclude that during high salt intake, the KHCO(3)-induced postprandial shift to a more alkaline state reduces metabolic stress. This leads to decreased bone resorption and protein degradation, which in turn might initiate an anticatabolic state for the musculoskeletal system in the long run.
High salt intake does not exacerbate murine autoimmune thyroiditis.	Recent studies have shown that high salt (HS) intake exacerbates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and have raised the possibility that a HS diet may comprise a risk factor for autoimmune diseases in general. In this report, we have examined whether a HS diet regimen could exacerbate murine autoimmune thyroiditis, including spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis (SAT) in non-obese diabetic (NOD.H2(h4)) mice, experimental autoimmune thyroiditis (EAT) in C57BL/6J mice challenged with thyroglobulin (Tg) and EAT in CBA/J mice challenged with the Tg peptide (2549-2560). The physiological impact of HS intake was confirmed by enhanced water consumption and suppressed aldosterone levels in all strains. However, the HS treatment failed to significantly affect the incidence and severity of SAT or EAT or Tg-specific immunoglobulin (Ig)G levels, relative to control mice maintained on a normal salt diet. In three experimental models, these data demonstrate that HS intake does not exacerbate autoimmune thyroiditis, indicating that a HS diet is not a risk factor for all autoimmune diseases.
Decorative and traumatic tattoo biophysics and removal.	Decorative and traumatic tattoos represent foreign-body implantation into various depths of the dermis. Many methods of removal have been attempted with varying rates of success. Surgical excision with primary closure or grafts or flaps may be successful. Mechanical or chemical removal is useful as well. Thermic treatment including use of the argon and carbon dioxide lasers can remove tattoo pigment satisfactorily.
The characteristics of the mechanism of action in the joint use of solutions of brine and mud extracts with galvanization and ultrasonic exposure. 2]	Radionuclide tracing has demonstrated that intraperitoneal introduction of natural brine and mud solutions to intact rats followed by ultrasound versus galvanization provides more intensive delivery of chemical elements to the target organs and tissues. These differences should be taken into account when planning rehabilitation schemes with various physiotherapeutic modalities.
