cAMP activates the sodium pump in cultured cells of the elasmobranch rectal gland.	The inorganic ion content of rectal gland cells cultured from Squalus acanthias was studied by electron probe analysis in order to determine the effect of stimulation by cAMP. Cell sodium was reduced by 30% (P less than 0.01) at 8 min after exposure to dibutyryl cAMP and theophylline and remained low at 25 and 33 min. Chloride content also fell significantly with stimulation. Although cAMP may activate several transport sites, the results are consistent with a direct effect of stimulation to increase the activity of the sodium pump in shark rectal gland.
Effect of melatonin on salt gland and kidney function of gulls, Larus glaucescens.	This study examined effects of exogenous melatonin on osmoregulatory hormones and water and sodium secretion by salt glands and excretion via the kidneys of Glaucous-winged gulls (Larus glaucescens). Six saline acclimated gulls were injected with inulin and paraminohippuric acid and then infused with 500 mM NaCl to stimulate salt gland secretion. Each bird was given infusions of NaCl alone and NaCl plus melatonin. Experiments were made one week apart in a randomized order. A large blood sample (to measure osmoregulatory hormones) was taken before infusion, at secretion, and at the end of infusion. A small blood sample was taken at the midpoint of each of six 10 min sequential collections of salt gland secretion and urine. Melatonin tended to increase plasma sodium concentration, did decrease plasma osmolality, but did not affect potassium concentration. Melatonin did not affect salt gland secretion rate or concentration nor renal plasma flow or glomerular filtration. Melatonin increased urine flow rate, tended to increase urine sodium concentration, and did decrease urine potassium concentration. Combined renal and extrarenal sodium excretion was greater during MT treatment. During NaCl infusion, angiotensin II increased, aldosterone decreased, and arginine vasotocin remained unchanged. Melatonin did not affect these responses. These data suggest an osmoregulatory role for melatonin in birds with salt glands.
Atriopeptin stimulates chloride secretion in cultured shark rectal gland cells.	Monolayer cultures of shark rectal gland (SRG) epithelial cells were treated with atriopeptin (AP), and the effects on Cl- secretion and intracellular guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) accumulation were examined. Basolateral or apical exposure to 10(-7) M AP markedly stimulated (8-fold) Cl(-)-dependent, bumetanide-sensitive, short-circuit current (Isc). The AP-stimulated Isc exhibited transient oscillations before reaching a steady state. This behavior is not observed when Isc is activated by other secretagogues such as vasoactive intestinal peptide, 2-chloroadenosine, forskolin, or ionomycin. Intracellular cGMP was concomitantly elevated (10-fold) by 10(-7) M AP. Both Isc stimulation and cGMP accumulation responses exhibited a similar dose dependency beginning at an AP concentration of 1 nM. The bilateral response to AP suggests the presence of receptors on both apical and basolateral plasma membranes. These results are the first demonstration of a direct effect of AP on Cl(-)-secreting epithelial cells. These data also suggest a role for cGMP in mediating Cl- secretion in these cells.
Perfusion-secretion relationships in the isolated elasmobranch rectal gland.	Perfusion and sodium secretion parameters were measured in the isolated rectal gland of Scyliorhinus canicula L. perfused at in vivo pressures, and the effect of stimulation of secretory activity by cyclic AMP and theophylline on these parameters was determined. Stimulation resulted in large increases in secretion flow rate, percentage extraction of sodium from the perfusing fluid, and arteriovenous sodium concentration difference, but did not affect perfusion flow rate or the sodium concentration of the secreted fluid. Reduction of perfusion flow rate to values below 65% of the control level, achieved by reducing perfusion pressure, produced a marked decline in sodium secretion--a process accompanied by increases in the percentage extraction of sodium and arteriovenous concentration difference of sodium, but again without any change in the sodium concentration of the secreted fluid. The in vivo consequences of these findings are discussed with reference to related findings for the avian nasal salt gland. The normal rate of secretion, its sodium concentration, and the nature of the dependence of secretion rate on perfusion flow below certain levels, were essentially unaffected by a reduction in the availability of oxygen to the gland by approximately 80%. It is concluded that the observed relationship between perfusion flow and sodium secretion rate in the stimulated gland is not related to oxygen availability, and hence that the primary underlying function of the synchronized secretion-related vasodilation seen in the gland is not to increase the supply of oxygen to the stimulated secretory tissue. We discuss possible reasons why this erroneous conclusion has been reached by other workers.
Role of calcium in cAMP-mediated effects in the elasmobranch rectal gland.	The effects of A23187 and verapamil on the vasomotor and secretory effects of adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) in the rectal gland were investigated in Scyliorhinus canicula and Squalus acanthias. A23187 was a potent vasoconstrictor in the gland and reversed the vasodilatory action of cAMP in glands constricted with norepinephrine. Verapamil, like cAMP, prevented the vasoconstriction induced in the gland by norepinephrine. A23187 had no effect on the secretory activity (measured as ouabain binding and ouabain-sensitive oxygen consumption) of the glands. Verapamil inhibited the stimulation of ouabain binding, ouabain-sensitive oxygen consumption, and sodium secretion rate induced by cAMP plus theophylline, but did not affect the stimulation of ouabain binding and ouabain-sensitive oxygen consumption induced by amphotericin B. These data indicate that it is the cAMP-induced stimulation of the sodium-chloride cotransport system that is verapamil sensitive, and it is suggested that this stimulation is a calcium-dependent process. This emphasizes the independent nature of the secretory and vasomotor effects of the nucleotide in the gland.
Muscarinic-receptor activation stimulates oscillations in K+ and Cl- currents which are acutely dependent on extracellular Ca2+ in avian salt gland cells.	By utilizing the perforated-patch variant of the whole-cell patch-clamp recording technique, in order to maintain the integrity of the normal cellular buffering systems, we demonstrate that carbachol (CCh) stimulates simultaneous oscillations in a Ca(2+)- and voltage-activated K+ current and a linear Ca(2+)-activated Cl- current in an exocrine avian salt gland cell preparation. Similar conductance changes, although sustained rather than oscillatory, are stimulated by the Ca2+ ionophore A23187. The outward K+ current can be inhibited by tetraethylammonium chloride (TEA) whereas the Cl- current is inhibited by the Cl- channel blockers 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino) (NPPB) and N-phenylanthranilic acid (DPC). The oscillations in current stimulated by CCh are acutely dependent on extracellular Ca2+ and are not affected by the application of low doses of caffeine. In addition, the application of caffeine at all doses fails to mimic the current transients stimulated by CCh. As both caffeine and A23187 are unable to stimulate oscillations under the perforated-patch conditions we suggest that in avian salt gland cells the primary oscillatory mechanism probably involves a one-pool mechanism of Ca2+ release which is intimately related to the activation of a Ca2+ influx pathway.
