Selection and characterization of salt-tolerant calli of Taraxacum officinale]	In order to obtain salt-tolerant calli of Dandelion (Taraxacum officinale Weber), calli were induced from leaf explants of Dandelion on Murashige and Skoog's medium supplemented with 2.0 mg/L 6-benzyladenine and 0.5 mg/L 2,4-dichlorophen oxyacetic acid With 1.5% NaCl as selection pressure, most calli became brown and dead, whereas some new cell clusters appeared at the edge of the brown calli after 2 to 3 weeks. The survived cells were picked out and sub-cultured every 3 weeks onto the fresh selection medium and salt-tolerant calli were finally obtained through 4 continuous selections on the selection medium supplemented with 1.5% NaCl. Salt-tolerant calli increased steadily under a fixed NaCl stress though their relative growth rate decreased with increased NaCl concentration whereas the control calli which were sub-cultured by 4 continus selections on salt free medium ceased to grow under the same condition. This result indicated that the salt-tolerance of the selected calli is improved and this character is stable. Compared with the control, the SDS-PAGE pattern of the salt-tolerant calli had a unique 34 kD protein band. Its 30 kD and 18 kD protein bands were up-regulated. Further more, within the NaCl stress range up to 1.5%, the activities of antioxidant enzymes such as super oxidase dimutase, peroxidase and catalase, and the proline contents of the salt-tolerant calli were higher than those of the control. The results indicated that the selected calli with improved and stable salt tolerance were cell variants. The accumulation of the organic compatible solutes including proteins and the enhanced antioxidant capabilities in the salt tolerant calli are the two ways for them to regulate their osmotic homeostasis and alleviate the secondary reactive oxygen spexies damage respectively.
Potential utilization of NAC transcription factors to enhance abiotic stress tolerance in plants by biotechnological approach.	Abiotic stresses such as extreme temperature, drought, high salinity, cold and waterlogging often result in significant losses to the yields of economically important crops. Plants constantly exposed to capricious conditions have adapted at the molecular, cellular, physiological and biochemical level, enabling them to survive and cope with adverse environmental stresses. NAC (NAM, ATAF and CUC) transcription factors (TFs), which constitute one of the largest families of plant-specific TFs, have been reported to enhance tolerance against various stresses, such as drought, high salinity and cold, in a number of plants. In this review the NAC TF family will be described and the potential use of NAC TFs in development of improved stress tolerant transgenic crops will be discussed.
Molecular cloning and characterization of plasma membrane- and vacuolar-type Na⁺/H⁺ antiporters of an alkaline-salt-tolerant monocot, Puccinellia tenuiflora.	A better understanding of salt tolerance in plants might lead to the genetic engineering of crops that can grow in saline soils. Here we cloned and characterized plasma membrane and vacuolar Na⁺/H⁺ antiporters of a monocotyledonous alkaline-tolerant halophyte, Puccinellia tenuiflora. The predicted amino acid sequence of the transporters were very similar to those of orthologs in monocotyledonous crops. Expression analysis showed that (1) NHA was more strongly induced by NaCl in the roots of P. tenuiflora while in rice it was rather induced in the shoots, suggesting that the role of NHA in salt excretion from the roots partly accounts for the difference in the tolerance of the two species, and that (2) NHXs were specifically induced by NaHCO₃ but not by NaCl in the roots of both species, suggesting that vacuolar-type Na⁺/H⁺ antiporters play roles in pH regulation under alkaline salt conditions. Overexpression of the antiporters resulted in increased tolerance of shoots to NaCl and roots to NaHCO₃. Overexpression lines exhibited a lower Na⁺ content and a higher K⁺ content in shoots under NaCl treatments, leading to a higher Na⁺/H⁺ ratio.
A suite of new genes defining salinity stress tolerance in seedlings of contrasting rice genotypes.	Salinity is one of the major constraints adversely influencing crop productivity. Saltol QTL is a major QTL associated with Na⁺-K⁺ ratio and seedling stage salinity tolerance in rice. With an aim to understand the contribution of individual genes localized within saltol towards salinity tolerance, we analysed the transcript abundance of a set of these genes in seedlings of contrasting genotypes of rice. We hypothesize that this approach may be helpful in identifying new 'candidate genes' for improving salinity tolerance in crops. For this purpose, seedlings of Oryza sativa cv. IR64 (sensitive) and the landrace Pokkali (tolerant) were subjected to short/long durations of salinity. qRT-PCR analysis clearly exhibited differential regulation of genes encoding signaling related protein (SRPs), where higher transcript abundance for most of them was observed in Pokkali than IR64 under non-stress conditions, thereby indicating towards well preparedness of the former to handle stress, in anticipation. Genes encoding proteins of unknown function (PUFs), though, constitute a considerable portion of plant genome, have so far been neglected in most studies. Time course analysis of these genes showed a continuous increase in their abundance in Pokkali, while in IR64, their abundance increased till 24 h followed by a clear decrease, thereby justifying their nomenclature as 'salinity induced factors' (SIFs). This is the first report showing possible involvement of SIFs localized within salinity related QTL towards salinity stress response. Based on the phenotypes of insertional mutants, it is proposed that these SIFs may have a putative function in vegetative growth (SIFVG), fertility (SIFF), viability (SIFV) or early flowering (SIFEF).
