Costs of treatment and outcomes associated with second-line therapy and greater for relapsed ovarian cancer.	Most women with epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) will develop disease progression or recurrence with resistance to platinum therapy. We report overall costs and treatment outcomes associated with topotecan or gemcitabine administration in platinum- and paclitaxel-resistant EOC patients.
The salvage of open grade IIIB ankle and talus fractures.	Between 1983 and 1989, 11 open grade IIIB ankle or talus fractures were treated according to protocol including debridement, temporary placement of antibiotic beads, soft tissue coverage (including seven free vascular tissue transfers), intravenous antibiotics and fusion using an anterior plate, and bone graft. All patients had a minimum of three separate hospitalizations. Each had at least five operative procedures performed with an average of 8.2/patient (range: 5-12). The total in-patient hospital stay averaged 61.6 days (20-107 days) and in patient costs averaged $62,174.43/patient (range: $33,535.06-$143,847.45). Overall hospital cost averaged $1,009.32/day. Follow-up averaged 47.8 months (range 32-85 months), with an average time to union of 4.4 months. Fusion rate and muscle flap success was 100%. Although fusion and eradication of infection in this specific group of patients was possible, significant functional and psychosocial disability remained. Eight of eleven patients had significant pain, difficulty with stairs, and limited ambulation. All changed jobs or were unemployed. Patients with open grade IIIB tibiotalar injuries with significant bone loss may therefore benefit from early amputation. A multicenter randomized clinical outcome study is needed.
Medium-term cost analysis of breast reconstructions in a single Dutch centre: a comparison of implants, implants preceded by tissue expansion, LD transpositions and DIEP flaps.	Free flap breast reconstruction (BR) is generally believed to be more expensive than implant BR, but costs were previously shown to level out over time due to complications and re-operations. The aim of this study was to assess the economic implications of four BR techniques: silicone prosthesis (SP), implant preceded by tissue expansion (TE/SP), latissimus dorsi transposition with or without implant (LD ± SP) and deep inferior epigastric perforator (DIEP) flap.
Economic evaluation of rituximab added to fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide versus fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia]	We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of rituximab added to the chemotherapy regimen of fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (R-FC) versus fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (FC) for the treatment of patients with previously untreated or relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
A clinical audit of glottic cancer in Nova Scotia: a paradigm for effectiveness research.	We conducted a clinical audit of the recurrence-free rates and absolute survival of 146 patients who presented with T1-T3 glottic cancer and received primary radiotherapy treatment at the Nova Scotia Cancer Centre between 1984 and 1990. The outcomes are compared with a review of published results from other centres. We used stage T3 glottic cancer as an example to illustrate concepts of effectiveness research which are used to determine at what level interventions operate in the day to day practice of medicine. The actuarial recurrence-free rates at 5 years are: T1 91%, T2 73%, and T3 44%. The actuarial absolute survival rates are: T1 84%, T2 68%, and T3 52%. Effectiveness research may utilize efficacy research, clinical audit, quality of life assessment and decision making theory. Its objective is to aid the implementation of appropriate clinical management for specific individuals and defined communities. Expert computer systems may be necessary to synthesize the data and to enhance communication and decision making.
