Insecticidal activity of certain medicinal plants.	The methanol extracts of eight species of medicinal plants were tested for insecticidal activity in third instar larvae of Egyptian cottonworm (Spodoptera littoralis). All extracts showed a certain degree of larval toxicity. The extracts of Ocimum basilicum, Origanum majorana and Salvia officinalis appeared to be highly toxic. The extracts significantly affected the growth indexes [relative growth rate (RGR), efficiency of conversion of ingested food (ECI), efficiency of conversion of digested food (ECD)].
Antimutagenic effects of extracts from sage (Salvia officinalis) in mammalian system in vivo.	Naturally occurring antimutagenic factors, especially those of plant origin, have recently become a subject of intensive research. Antimutagenic properties of terpenoid fractions of sage (Salvia officinalis) were tested in mammalian system in vivo through examining the ability of sage to decrease the frequency of aberrant cells induced by a potent mutagen. First, groups of mice were treated with three concentrations of sage alone and it was established that the frequency of aberrant cells after treatment with a concentration of 25 microL/kg was not significantly different from the negative control (olive oil), while that found after treatment with the 50 microL/kg concentration differed significantly (chi2(1) = 4.05, p < 0.05). Sage used at a concentration of 100 microL/kg was cytotoxic. Mitomycin C (MMC), known as a potent mutagen, was used for induction of chromosome aberrations. Post-treatment with sage suppressed the effects of MMC significantly. Both concentrations (25 microL/kg and 50 microL/kg) produced a significant decrease in the frequency of aberrations relative to MMC (chi2(1) = 5.42, p < 0.02, chi2(1) = 14.93, p < 0.001, respectively). The percent of aberrations decreased with increasing concentrations of sage. Only nontoxic concentrations of sage without mutagenic effects can be recommended for use as inhibitors of mutagenesis or carcinogenesis.
Traditional Chinese medicines and Alzheimer's disease.	Traditional Chinese medicines have been widely investigated for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) because none of the current therapies-either the cholinesterase inhibitors or antagonist of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors-has profound effects on halting the progression of AD. In recent years, scientists have isolated many active compounds from herbs, which can alleviate dementia and neurodegenerative syndrome with fewer side effects than conventional drugs and, thus, are regarded as promising drug candidates for AD therapy. In this review, we summarize the latest research progress on six herbs for AD therapy-Huperzia serrata, Amaryllidaceae family, Ginkgo biloba, Uncaria rhynchophylla, Polygala tenuifolia, and Salvia officinalis-and focus on the analysis of their active components and possible mechanisms of pharmacological actions on AD.
