A case of relapsing acute disseminated encephalomyelitis with high dose corticosteroid treatment.	We report a 16-month-old boy with acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) who had an early relapse despite prompt treatment with high dose methylprednisolone. The second episode responded to intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg). This case illustrates the probability of relapses or treatment failures in ADEM after steroid treatment, and the use of alternative drugs.
Salvage of tibial pilon fractures using fusion of the ankle with a 90 degrees cannulated blade-plate: a preliminary report.	Six patients with ankle joint destruction and delayed metaphyseal union after tibial plafond fracture were surgically treated with tibiotalar arthrodesis and metaphyseal reconstruction, using a fixed-angle cannulated blade-plate. The procedure was performed through a posterior approach in five cases and a lateral approach in one case. The subtalar joint was preserved in all cases. Metaphyseal union and a stable arthrodesis were obtained in all cases without loss of fixation and with no mechanical failure of the blade-plate. Union was obtained in an average of 26 weeks. No secondary procedures were required to obtain union. All six patients were ambulatory at last follow-up. Stable internal fixation for simultaneous tibiotalar fusion and metaphyseal reconstruction can be achieved with a cannulated blade-plate while preserving the subtalar joint in complex plafond fractures.
T-cell depletion plus salvage immunotherapy with donor leukocyte infusions as a strategy to treat chronic-phase chronic myelogenous leukemia patients undergoing HLA-identical sibling marrow transplantation.	T-cell depletion (TCD) of the donor marrow graft has been shown to reduce the severity of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in patients with chronic-phase (CP) chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) undergoing HLA-identical sibling allogeneic marrow transplantation. However, there has been a corresponding reduction in the graft-versus-leukemia effect so that any decrease in GVHD-related mortality has been offset by an increased rate of disease relapse. Therapy of recurrent disease with donor leukocyte infusions (DLI) has been proven to be effective salvage therapy for the majority of patients who relapse after allogeneic BMT with CP CML. However, the overall impact of salvage DLI therapy on the survival of CP CML patients initially transplanted with TCD marrow grafts is not defined. To address this question, we have evaluated a clinical strategy of TCD followed by targeted adoptive immunotherapy with DLI in 25 CP CML patients undergoing allogeneic BMT from HLA-identical siblings. All patients received a standardized preparative regimen along with ex vivo TCD and posttransplant cyclosporine as GVHD prophylaxis. Durable engraftment was observed in all 25 patients. The incidence of grade II to IV acute GVHD was 8%. The cumulative incidence of transplant-related mortality (TRM) was 4%, and the 1-year probability of overall survival was 96%. The 3-year cumulative relapse incidence was 49%. All relapsed patients received DLI to reinduce remission. The total T-cell dose administered to these patients varied from 0.1 to 5.0 x 10(8) T cells/kg. Complete responses were observed in 12 of 14 patients, with 1 additional patient still too early to evaluate. Three patients died of GVHD after DLI, and 1 relapsed into blast crisis after a transient cytogenetic remission. Of the remaining 10 patients, 8 are in molecular remission, 1 is alive in relapse, and 1 is receiving DLI treatment. The median follow-up after infusion of surviving DLI patients in remission is 5.3 years. The probability of overall 5-year survival for the entire population is 80%, with a median follow-up of 6.4 years. We conclude that the clinical strategy of TCD followed by targeted adoptive immunotherapy with DLI for those patients with evidence of recurrent disease is a viable transplant strategy for CP CML, resulting in 80% survival and a low risk of acute GVHD and transplant-related mortality.
Prevalence and distribution of prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia in salvage radical prostatectomy specimens after radiation therapy.	High-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) is the most likely precursor of prostate cancer. The effect of radiation therapy (RT) on the prevalence of PIN is uncertain. We studied 86 patients who underwent salvage radical prostatectomy after irradiation failure at the Mayo Clinic. The prevalence, volume, multicentricity, spatial proximity to cancer, and architectural patterns of PIN were evaluated. High-grade PIN was identified in 53 (62%) of 86 prostatectomy specimens. Multiple architectural patterns were usually observed, including tufting in 87%, micropapillary in 66%, cribriform in 38%, and flat in 17%. The mean volume of PIN was 0.12 cm3 (range, 0.05-1.20 cm3). PIN was usually multicentric (70%), with a mean number of PIN foci of 2.5 (range, 1-10). Ninety-four percent of PIN foci were located within 2 mm of invasive cancer. There was no correlation between PIN and pathologic stage, surgical margin, tumor size, DNA ploidy, post-RT Gleason score, time interval from RT to biopsy-proven recurrence, postoperative prostate-specific antigen level, distant metastasis-free survival, or cancer-specific survival. Our examination of salvage radical prostatectomy specimens indicated that the prevalence and extent of PIN appeared to be reduced after RT compared to published studies of prostatectomies without prior RT.
Phase III randomized trials of docetaxel in patients with metastatic breast cancer.	In a randomized phase III trial in which docetaxel was compared with doxorubicin in metastatic breast cancer patients who had failed prior alkylating chemotherapy, docetaxel proved more active, achieving responses at a significantly higher rate (complete + partial responses, 48% v 33%). The risk to benefit ratio favors docetaxel. The higher response rate was achieved without the risk of potentially fatal cardiac toxicity evident in patients who received doxorubicin and with a lower risk of infection and febrile neutropenia. In a second phase III study, patients with metastatic breast cancer who had failed prior anthracycline therapy were randomized to receive either docetaxel or a standard salvage regimen of mitomycin C plus vinblastine. Those assigned to docetaxel lived significantly longer (median survival, 11.4 v 8.7 months), experienced a longer time before disease progression (19 weeks v 11 weeks), and achieved a higher overall response rate (30% v 11.6%). The toxicity profile of both regimens was manageable. These phase III studies confirmed the activity observed with docetaxel in the phase II trials and support the view point that docetaxel is one of the most active agents available for the treatment of breast cancer.
Successful treatment of relapsed T-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation with double conditioning.	We report a patient with T-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) who relapsed after treatment with relatively intensive third-generation chemotherapy, VACOP-B, and who was safely and effectively treated with allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (allo PBSCT) with double conditioning. The first conditioning consisted of carboplatin and etoposide. Twenty-one days later, the second conditioning was performed with cytosine arabinoside, cyclophosphamide, and total body irradiation (AraC/Cy/TBI). Between the periods of the first and second conditioning, autologous (auto) PBSCT (4.4 x 10(5) colony-forming units granulocyte/macrophage (CFU-GM)/kg, 3.8 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg) was performed to rescue marrow aplasia after the first conditioning. After the second conditioning, allo PBSCT (2.1 x 10(5) CFU-GM/kg, 8.2 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg) was performed from a human leukocyte antigen-identical sibling. Marrow reconstitution after allo PBSCT was rapid. Grade I acute graft-vs.-host disease (GVHD) involving skin and chronic GVHD on the eye was observed. No severe transplantation-related complications occurred. With a follow-up of 22 months after allogeneic PBSCT, the patient is alive without evidence of the disease. This case shows that allo PBSCT with intensive double conditioning may become a new treatment strategy to achieve long-term disease-free survival for young NHL patients of resistant relapse with a great deal of tumor burden and invasion of lymphoma cells in bone marrow.
Synovial sarcoma of the foot and ankle.	Synovial sarcoma of the foot and ankle frequently is misdiagnosed, which leads to delays in treatment. The clinical records of 14 patients with synovial sarcoma of the foot and ankle were reviewed. Common findings at presentation were an enlarging mass with a variable incidence of pain, tenderness, and edema. The patients tended to be younger than patients with other soft tissue sarcomas (30 years) and had a median duration of symptoms of 14 months. Of the 14 patients, 12 underwent an attempted curative surgical procedure. Ten patients had partial foot amputations or below knee amputations, whereas two had an attempted limb salvage by wide resection. Of the 14 patients, one experienced regionally recurrent disease and eight had pulmonary metastasis developed. All patients who had metastasis develop died of their disease. Tumor size was not observed to be a prognostic variable in this group of patients. Patients with biphasic histologic features had a better outcome than did those with a monophasic subtype. Patients with a prolonged duration of symptoms before diagnosis had a better outcome, presumably because these tumors biologically were less aggressive. Wide resection can be considered in a select group of patients.
Efficacy of salvage therapy containing ritonavir and saquinavir after failure of single protease inhibitor-containing regimens.	To assess the efficacy of salvage therapy containing ritonavir and saquinavir after failure of indinavir- or nelfinavir-containing regimens, and to determine correlates of success or failure.
Small cell carcinoma of the gall bladder: case report and review of literature.	Small cell carcinoma of the gall bladder is a very rare tumor. The neoplasm is highly lethal, metastasizes early, and may cause death shortly after diagnosis. Here we report a 56 year old male with small cell carcinoma of the gall bladder metastatic to the liver. He attained partial remission with 5 fluouracil, cisplatin based chemotherapy. However, the disease progressed after 3 months and salvage chemotherapy with docetaxel and caboplatin failed to produce any tumour response. He succumbed to the illness 13 months after cholecystectomy.
Rising PSA after a radical treatment.	Despite improvements in detection of early prostate cancer and surgical technique, approximately 25% of men develop biochemical recurrence following radical prostatectomy. Recurrence after local prostate cancer treatment, detectable only by a rise in serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA), is an increasingly common problem facing clinicians. Analysis of clinical and pathological factors can indicate the likelihood of treatment failure. In addition, at biochemical failure, PSA velocity or doubling time may indicate whether recurrent disease is local or distant to the prostate bed. Those thought to have local recurrence may benefit from radiation therapy, whereas those thought to have metastatic disease may benefit from systemic treatment, the most common being androgen deprivation. Some patients may be candidates for surveillance alone.
Docetaxel followed by hormone therapy after failure of definitive treatments for clinically localized/locally advanced prostate cancer: preliminary results.	An increasingly important issue in the management of prostate cancer is the occurrence of biochemical failure (ie, increasing serum prostate-specific antigen [PSA] levels) in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer who initially underwent definitive treatments with curative intent (prostatectomy and/or radiation therapy). This pilot trial evaluated chemotherapy followed by hormone therapy for a defined period in patients with biochemical (and possibly clinical) recurrence after initial local therapies for localized/locally advanced prostate cancer. Patients who developed increasing PSA > 4 ng/mL after initial prostatectomy and/or radiation therapy received docetaxel, 70 mg/m(2) every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses, followed by 4 months of total androgen suppression (using a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist plus bicalutamide, 50 mg/d) and 8 months of peripheral androgen blockade (using finasteride, 5 mg/d, plus bicalutamide, 50 mg/d). Twenty-seven patients have enrolled to date, 23 of whom received four or six cycles of docetaxel before hormonal therapies. Seventeen (74%) of 23 patients who completed four to six cycles of chemotherapy had a > or =40% decrease in PSA, and 16 (89%) of 18 patients who completed 4 months of total androgen suppression achieved PSA values of < or =0.1. The most common hematologic toxicity was grade (3/4) neutropenia; grade 3 nonhematologic toxicities were rare, and no grade 4 nonhematologic toxicities were reported. Thus, the preliminary results suggest that docetaxel before hormonal therapy includes a PSA response in many prostate cancer patients with biochemical failure after definitive local therapies.
Surgery versus radiotherapy for muscle invasive bladder cancer.	Muscle invasive bladder cancer is a serious clinical problem and is fatal for the majority of patients. Alternative treatments for this condition are radical cystectomy or radical radiotherapy. The choice of treatment varies according to the resident country. The ideal treatment would be a bladder preserving therapy with total eradication of the tumour without compromising survival.
Salvage radiotherapy for PSA failure after radical prostatectomy.	Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) failure after radical prostatectomy is a common clinical scenario, and there is no consensus on how it should be managed. Salvage radiation to the prostatic bed is a potentially curative treatment option, and is the subject of this review. Patient selection, and the efficacy and toxicity of treatment will be discussed, and recommendations made for current practice and future studies.
First-line Herceptin monotherapy in metastatic breast cancer.	The pivotal phase II and III Herceptin trials proved the efficacy and safety of second- or third-line single-agent Herceptin and first-line Herceptin in combination with chemotherapy, respectively. In the current trial, 114 patients were randomized to one of two dose groups of first-line Herceptin monotherapy: standard dose of 4 mg/ kg initial dose followed by 2 mg/kg intravenous (i.v.) weekly; or high dose of 8 mg/kg initial dose followed by 4 mg/kg i.v. weekly. The regimen was generally well tolerated. A similar incidence of adverse events was demonstrated in the two dose groups with the possible exception of acute infusion-related events such as fever and chills as well as rash and dyspnea, which appear to be more prevalent in the higher dose group. The overall response rate was 26% and response rates were similar between the two dose groups (24% for the standard Herceptin dose group and 28% for the high Herceptin dose group). Subgroup analysis determined a higher response rate in IHC 3+ patients (35%) and FISH-positive patients (41%). When women with stable disease for > or =6 months were included with responders, the clinical benefit rate in IHC 3+ patients was 47%. Median survival was 24.4 months, which is comparable with the survival rate seen in the pivotal phase III combination trial (25 months). Therefore, single-agent Herceptin is an important new option for the first-line treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer patients.
Interaction between Herceptin and taxanes.	The taxanes and Herceptin have been shown to possess significant clinical activity in metastatic breast cancer. Preclinical testing of taxane/Herceptin combinations demonstrated additive and synergistic interactions with paclitaxel and docetaxel, respectively. In a pivotal clinical trial, combination of paclitaxel (3-weekly) and Herceptin was associated with an increased response rate compared with paclitaxel monotherapy (41% vs. 17%; p = 0.001). The combination therapy also significantly improved time to disease progression (6.9 vs. 2.7 months; p < 0.05). In a phase II study of weekly paclitaxel plus Herceptin in patients with normal or increased tumor HER2 levels, a response was observed in 60% of patients and the regimen was well tolerated. Responses were more frequent in patients with HER2-overexpressing tumors (83% vs. 45%). Preliminary results from a phase II study of Herceptin plus docetaxel in patients with HER2-overexpressing tumors indicate significant activity, with a response observed in 7 (44%) of 16 evaluable patients. The preliminary results of a trial of weekly docetaxel and Herceptin demonstrate a response rate of 54% in 13 evaluable patients. Additional European trials of Hercep- tin/taxane combinations as first- and second-line and adjuvant therapy are ongoing. The results of the studies to date indicate that regimens combining Herceptin with 3-weekly and weekly taxane are effective and well tolerated.
Retrospective analysis of the safety of Herceptin immunotherapy in metastatic breast cancer.	Approximately 25,000 patients have been treated to date with the humanized anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody, Herceptin. This therapy has proved effective and well tolerated in patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer; adverse events were generally infusion-related fever and chills of mild-to-moderate severity. Cardiotoxicity and infusion-related reactions emerged as the two main safety concerns with the use of Herceptin. Retrospective analysis revealed a higher incidence of heart failure when Herceptin was combined with anthracyclines than that expected with anthracyclines alone. Age, anthracycline exposure and cardiac risk factors were found to be predictors of cardiac adverse events. Patients experiencing cardiac dysfunction responded well to standard cardiac medication and the majority improved. Cardiac function should be monitored regularly and Herceptin should be discontinued if significant heart failure develops unless the benefits for an individual patient outweigh the risks. Of 25,000 patients, 74 (0.3%) were reported to have experienced a serious infusion-related reaction. The majority occurred during or shortly after the first infusion and were characterized by respiratory symptoms. Most patients were successfully treated; a total of 33 patients continued Herceptin therapy with no recurrence of infusion reactions. Although the benefit to risk ratio of Herceptin remains favorable, physicians must be vigilant and aggressive in managing cardiotoxicity and infusion-related reactions.
Salvage therapy with single-agent paclitaxel by three-hour infusion in metastatic breast cancer: an experience in Taipei Veterans General Hospital.	Paclitaxel is an active agent in the treatment of breast, ovarian, lung and head and neck cancers. In previous phase I and II trials, it exerted novel cytotoxic effect on several malignancies. Various doses and regimens of paclitaxel have been assessed in metastatic breast cancer, with responses between 20 and 62%. However, combination therapy with other anti-cancer drugs leads to a high incidence of side effects. Our aim was to evaluate the efficacy of paclitaxel given by 3 h infusion as salvage chemotherapy for patients with metastatic breast cancer.
Chemotherapy with irinotecan (CPT-11), a topoisomerase-I inhibitor, for refractory and relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Irinotecan hydrochloride (CPT-11), a DNA topoisomerase-I inhibitor, is now widely used in the treatment of various solid tumors, including colorectal, gastric, breast, lung, and ovarian cancer. Despite the good response shown in the late phase-II study, CPT-11 was not often employed in the treatment of malignant lymphoma, mainly because of severe leukopenia and diarrhea caused by the recommended schedule: 40 mg/m2 of CPT-11 on days 1 to 3, 8 to 10, 15 to 17, then discontinued for at least 2 weeks. In clinical use, administration of CPT-11 had to be ceased on days 15 to 17 in almost all cases, and on days 8 to 10 in a considerable number of patients. Subsequently, a lower dose schedule (less than 40 mg/m2) was developed. Our phase II trial employing a reduced dose of CPT-11 on days 1 and 2, plus ADM on day 3 with 3-week interval in patients with refractory and relapsed NHL showed a fairly good response of relapsed B-cell lymphoma and a substantial response of T-cell lymphoma with acceptable toxicity. The combination of a topoisomerase-I inhibitor (CPT-11) and a topoisomerase-II inhibitor is an interesting concept for the treatment of NHL. Another phase II trial in combination with CPT-11 and other anti-cancer drugs, particularly cisplatin or topoisomerase-II inhibitors, is warranted. A superior salvage chemotherapy regimen could be found in the future by investigating combinations of low-dose CPT-11 and cisplatin or topoisomerase-II inhibitors.
Single-agent estramustine phosphate (EMP) is active in advanced breast cancer after failure with anthracyclines and taxanes.	Estramustine phosphate (EMP) is an oral cytotoxic agent that depolymerizes tubuline, a mechanism of action that has been revisited during the last decade. Because of its lack of haematological toxicity and favourable tolerance profile, EMP is a good candidate for palliative chemotherapy. The aim of the study was to assess its tolerance and efficacy in advanced breast cancer after failure with usual regimens.
Thoracic positron emission tomography using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose for the evaluation of residual mediastinal Hodgkin disease.	Residual mediastinal masses are frequently observed in patients with Hodgkin disease (HD) after completed therapy, and the discrimination between active tumor tissue and fibrotic residues remains a clinical challenge. We studied the diagnostic value of metabolic imaging by 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) in detecting active mediastinal disease and predicting relapse. Twenty-eight HD patients with a residual mediastinal mass of at least 2 cm after initial therapy or after salvage chemotherapy were prospectively assigned to 29 examinations with FDG PET and were evaluated as 29 "subjects." Patients were monitored for at least 1 year after examination and observed for signs of relapse. Median follow-up was 28 months (range, 16 to 68 months). A PET-negative mediastinal tumor was observed in 19 subjects, of whom 16 stayed in remission and 3 relapsed. Progression or relapse occurred in 6 of 10 subjects with a positive PET, whereas 4 subjects remained in remission. The negative predictive value (negative PET result and remission) at 1 year was 95%, and the positive predictive value (positive PET result and relapse) was 60%. The disease-free survival for PET-negative and PET-positive patients at 1 year was 95% and 40%, respectively. The difference was statistically significant. A negative FDG PET indicates that an HD patient with a residual mediastinal mass is unlikely to relapse before 1 year, if ever. On the other hand, a positive PET result indicates a significantly higher risk of relapse and demands further diagnostic procedures and a closer follow-up.
Mixing sumatriptan: a prospective study of stratified care using multiple formulations.	To assess the acceptability, utility, and tolerability of a system of stratified care of acute migraine using multiple formulations of sumatriptan.
Gene scanning of VDJH-amplified segments is a clinically relevant technique to detect contaminating tumor cells in the apheresis products of multiple myeloma patients undergoing autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation.	Contaminating tumour cells in apheresis products have proved to influence the outcome of patients with multiple myeloma (MM) undergoing autologous stem cell transplantation (APBSCT). The gene scanning of clonally rearranged VDJ segments of the heavy chain immunoglobulin gene (VDJH) is a reproducible and easy to perform technique that can be optimised for clinical laboratories. We used it to analyse the aphereses of 27 MM patients undergoing APBSCT with clonally detectable VDJH segments, and 14 of them yielded monoclonal peaks in at least one apheresis product. The presence of positive results was not related to any pre-transplant characteristics, except the age at diagnosis (lower in patients with negative products, P = 0.04). Moreover, a better pre-transplant response trended to associate with a negative result (P = 0.069). Patients with clonally free products were more likely to obtain a better response to transplant (complete remission, 54% vs 28%; >90% reduction in the M-component, 93% vs 43% P = 0.028). In addition, patients transplanted with polyclonal products had longer progression-free survival, (39 vs 19 months, P = 0.037) and overall survival (81% vs 28% at 5 years, P = 0.045) than those transplanted with monoclonal apheresis. In summary, the gene scanning of apheresis products is a useful and clinically relevant technique in MM transplanted patients.
Autologous reconstitution combined with durable leukemic remission after allogeneic BMT for CML: absence of persistence of a donor-derived T cell effector population.	We report a case of autologous hematopoietic recovery with durable leukemic remission after BMT from a phenotypically HLA-identical donor in a 30-year-old male with CML. Graft loss was diagnosed from day 60 post-BMT by VNTR PCR. To assess for the presence of a minor donor-derived T cell population that could exert an anti-leukemic effect, we serially applied a sensitive process of chimerism analysis by fluorescent PCR on sorted T cells. No residual donor T cells could be detected. We also showed retrospectively that a very sensitive method of MRD analysis by real-time quantitative PCR could have permitted prediction of relapse in this case.
Hematologic and cytogenetic remission by STI571 (Glivec) in a patient relapsing with accelerated phase CML after second allogeneic stem cell transplantation.	We describe the clinical activity of the ABL kinase inhibitor STI571 in a patient with accelerated phase of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) relapsing after a second allogeneic BMT and with minimal levels of donor chimerism. STI571 resulted in rapid elimination of leukemic cells with ensuing prolonged severe leukopenia and neutropenia complicated by neutropenic fever and colitis. Subsequent hematopoietic recovery was driven by donor derived cells and was associated with grade 3 graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). STI571 induced sustained hematological and cytogenetic remission combined with controllable GvHD, therapeutic goals not achieved by two preceding allogeneic transplants and repeated donor lymphocyte transfusions (DLT).
Metastatic breast cancer with resistance to both anthracycline and docetaxel successfully treated with weekly paclitaxel.	We report the case of a 38-year-old woman who underwent surgery for stage III-b breast cancer, and whose liver metastasis failed to respond to both docetaxel (administered at 30-40 mg/m2 every 2 weeks as a 1-h intravenous infusion) and epirubicin (administered as a 40-60 mg/m2 bolus hepatic arterial infusion). For subsequent treatment, this patient was managed with weekly paclitaxel. The regimen showed some usefulness for the treatment of the liver metastasis, as indicated by an improvement in performance status and tolerable toxicity. This case demonstrates that weekly paclitaxel may be well tolerated and useful for patients with extensive metastatic breast cancer that was resistant to treatment. Our findings also suggest that paclitaxel could be used as a salvage therapy in patients with anthracycline- and docetaxel-resistant breast cancer.
Remarkable application of serum EBV EBER-1 in monitoring response of nasopharyngeal cancer patients to salvage chemotherapy.	Nineteen consecutive patients with metastatic or recurrent nasopharyngeal cancer (NPC) receiving combination chemotherapy were monitored for EBV DNA in their serum. EBV DNA (EBER-1) concentration in serum was measured before, during, and after chemotherapy. Thirteen patients had additional multiple prechemotherapy readings. There was a significant lead time from first detection of serum EBER-1 to clinical recurrence in 62% of patients by a mean of 17.4 weeks (range: 8-74.5 weeks; mean = 28.2 weeks if confined to the 8 patients with significant lead time). The median EBER-1 concentration was significantly higher in those with distant metastasis as compared to those with loco-regional recurrence only (17,468 vs. 684 pg/mL serum; p = 0.046, Mann-Whitney U test). Among the 13 patients who responded to chemotherapy, 4 exhibited clinical complete remission (CR) who were only found in the group with EBER-1 DNA drop to background level, while the magnitude of EBER-1 drop did not discriminate partial remission (PR) and stable disease (SD) patients clearly. Subsequent profile of EBER-1 DNA showed concordance with clinical course of either continuous remission or later progression. EBER-1 DNA in serum can become a useful adjunctive surrogate marker to monitor chemotherapeutic response in NPC patients with distant metastasis or advanced local recurrence.
An out-patient second-line chemotherapy with gemcitabine and vinorelbine in patients with non-small cell lung cancer previously treated with cisplatin-based chemotherapy. A phase II study of the Hellenic co-operative Oncology Group.	Thirty-nine patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer, refractory or resistant to platinum or taxanes derivatives were treated on an out-patient basis with vinorelbine 25 mg/m2 intravenous (I.V.) on days 1 and 8 followed by gemcitabine 800 mg/m2 l.V. on days 1 and 8. Chemotherapy was repeated every 3 weeks. The patients were evaluated for response every two cycles of treatment. All 39 patients were assessable for toxicity and 35 were assessable for response. On an intent to treat analysis, only 1 (2.6%) patient achieved a partial response (PR) (95% CI 0.09% to 17.6%); fourteen patients (35.9%, 95% CI 29.45% to 67.4%) had stable disease (SD) and 24 (61.5%) had progressive disease (PD). The median time to tumor progression (TTP) was 4.7 months (range 0.13 to 18.9 months), the median survival time was 7.3 months (range 0.6 to 18.9 months) and the 1-year survival rate was 35%. Clinical benefit response including improvement of PS, dyspnea and anorexia, pain and cough reduction and cessation of hemoptysis and fever was observed in 10% to 50% of patients. Grade 3/4 neutropenia occurred only in 2 (5.2%) patients. Five patients experienced febrile neutropenia, which was successfully treated with G-CSF and broad-spectrum antibiotics. No patient experienced grade 3/4 anaemia or thrombocytopenia. One patient experienced grade 4 fatigue and stopped the treatment. Nausea / vomiting, fatigue, neurotoxicity, diarrhea and fever were mild in the majority of patients and did not result in any clinically significant problem. There were no treatment-related deaths. In conclusion, the combination of gemcitabine and vinorelbine showed low objective response rate in patients previously treated with CDDP/taxanes-containing regimens. This regimen was relatively well-tolerated and was associated with prolonged 1-year survival and improvement in cancer related symptoms. To validate these findings a randomized trial of gemcitabine and vinorelbine versus taxotere or best supportive care is required.
Dacarbazine DTIC and carboplatin as an outpatient treatment for disseminated malignant melanoma.	Occasionally long-term survival in disseminated melanoma can be obtained through chemotherapy. We treated 22 patients with disseminated melanoma with an outpatient regimen consisting of dacarbazine (DTIC) and carboplatin. Three patients had a complete response lasting 4+, 9 and 9 months (survival 4+, 10 and 16 months), respectively; 3 patients had a partial response lasting 4, 6 and 8 months (survival 6+, 11+ and 14 months), respectively. Overall response was 27% (95% confidence interval 11-50%). Toxicity was relatively mild and mainly due to nausea. In 3 patients the dose of carboplatin was reduced because of grade 4 haematological toxicity. This described easy outpatient regimen shows comparable results as other polychemotherapeutic regimens in disseminated melanoma, but with a relatively mild toxicity profile.
Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in chronic myeloid leukemia with different clinical stages.	Seven patients with Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) were treated with an ICE-based regimen plus G-CSF with the aim of mobilizing and collecting Ph-negative peripheral stem cells in the setting of an autologous transplant program. Five patients had CML in the first chronic phase and 2 in the accelerated phase. All patients had been previously treated with interferon-alpha. Median value and ranges for harvested mononuclear cells, CD34+ cells and CFU-GM, respectively: 5.65 x 10(8)/kg (2.61-11.38); 1.48 x 10(6)/kg (0.216-3.5), and 3.43 x 10(4)/kg (0.243-11.6). FISH was the only useful method for detection of minimal residual disease on apheresis product showing <5% t(9;22) positive cells in 2 cases and <10% positive cells in 4 other cases. Four of seven autologous grafts have been transplanted to date. Busulfan conditioning was used in 1 case and TBI/Cy conditioning in 3 other cases. All patients are alive and well following transplantation and are on interferon-alpha therapy.
Cocaine-contaminated allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.	Should a person with history of drug addiction be categorically denied as a bone marrow donor? The answer to the question is controversial. We report a case of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for refractory acute myeloid leukemia preceded by essential thrombocythemia. The donor used cocaine and marijuana the night before the bone marrow harvest.
Radiotherapy alone for clinical T4 skin carcinoma of the head and neck with surgery reserved for salvage.	To evaluate the outcomes of definitive radiotherapy in the treatment of clinical stage T4 cutaneous carcinomas of the head and neck.
Prognostic value of pretransplantation positron emission tomography using fluorine 18-fluorodeoxyglucose in patients with aggressive lymphoma treated with high-dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation.	The study assessed the prognostic value of fluorine 18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography ([18F]FDG-PET) after salvage chemotherapy before high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplantation (HDT/SCT) in patients with induction failure or relapsing chemosensitive lymphoma. Retrospective analysis of the clinical and conventional imaging data of 60 patients scheduled for HDT/SCT was performed in parallel with the analysis of the [18F]FDG-PET results. To determine the ability of [18F]FDG-PET to predict clinical outcome, PET images were reread without knowledge of conventional imaging and clinical history. Presence or absence of abnormal [18F]FDG uptake was related to progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Thirty patients showed a negative [18F]FDG-PET scan before HDT/SCT; 25 of those remained in complete remission, with a median follow-up of 1510 days. Two patients died due to a treatment-related mortality but without evidence of recurrent disease at that time (228-462 days). Only 3 patients had a relapse (median PFS, 1083 days) after a negative [18F]FDG-PET scan. Persistent abnormal [18F]FDG uptake was seen in 30 patients and 26 progressed (median PFS, 402 days); of these 26, 16 died from progressive disease (median OS, 408 days). Four patients are still in complete remission after a positive scan. Comparison between groups indicated a statistically significant association between [18F]FDG-PET findings and PFS (P <.000001) and OS (P <.00002). [18F]FDG-PET has an important prognostic role in the pretransplantation evaluation of patients with lymphoma and enlarges the concept of chemosensitivity used to select patients for HDT/SCT.
Gammadelta T cells for immune therapy of patients with lymphoid malignancies.	There is increasing evidence that gammadelta T cells have potent innate antitumor activity. We described previously that synthetic aminobisphosphonates are potent gammadelta T cell stimulatory compounds that induce cytokine secretion (ie, interferon gamma [IFN-gamma]) and cell-mediated cytotoxicity against lymphoma and myeloma cell lines in vitro. To evaluate the antitumor activity of gammadelta T cells in vivo, we initiated a pilot study of low-dose interleukin 2 (IL-2) in combination with pamidronate in 19 patients with relapsed/refractory low-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) or multiple myeloma (MM). The objectives of this trial were to determine toxicity, the most effective dose for in vivo activation/proliferation of gammadelta T cells, and antilymphoma efficacy of the combination of pamidronate and IL-2. The first 10 patients (cohort A) who entered the study received 90 mg pamidronate intravenously on day 1 followed by increasing dose levels of continuous 24-hour intravenous (IV) infusions of IL-2 (0.25 to 3 x 106 IU/m2) from day 3 to day 8. Even at the highest IL-2 dose level in vivo, gammadelta T-cell activation/proliferation and response to treatment were disappointing with only 1 patient achieving stable disease. Therefore, the next 9 patients were selected by positive in vitro proliferation of gammadelta T cells in response to pamidronate/IL-2 and received a modified treatment schedule (6-hour bolus IV IL-2 infusions from day 1-6). In this patient group (cohort B), significant in vivo activation/proliferation of gammadelta T cells was observed in 5 patients (55%), and objective responses (PR) were achieved in 3 patients (33%). Only patients with significant in vivo proliferation of gammadelta T cells responded to treatment, indicating that gammadelta T cells might contribute to this antilymphoma effect. Overall, administration of pamidronate and low-dose IL-2 was well tolerated. In conclusion, this clinical trial demonstrates, for the first time, that gammadelta T-cell-mediated immunotherapy is feasible and can induce objective tumor responses.
Result of high-dose imatinib mesylate in patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia after failure of interferon-alpha.	Imatinib at 400 mg daily is effective in chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) after interferon failure, although only a few patients achieve a molecular remission. We investigated whether higher doses of imatinib may be more effective. Thirty-six patients with chronic-phase CML after failure on interferon-alpha were treated with 400 mg imatinib twice daily. Median time from diagnosis was 25 months (range, 10-135 months); 4 patients (11%) had clonal evolution. All 11 patients with active disease achieved complete hematologic response. Excluding patients with fewer than 35% Ph-positive metaphases before the start of therapy, 19 (90%) of 21 evaluable patients achieved a major cytogenetic response. Of 27 evaluable patients, 24 (89%) achieved a complete cytogenetic response. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction was performed in bone marrow every 3 months. Of 32 evaluable patients, 18 (56%) showed BCR-ABL/ABL percentage ratios lower than 0.045%, including 13 (41%) with undetectable levels. With a median follow-up of 15 months, all patients were alive in chronic phase. Toxicities were similar to those reported with standard dose; 71% of patients continue to receive 600 mg or more of imatinib daily. In conclusion, high-dose imatinib induces complete cytogenetic responses in most patients with chronic-phase CML after interferon failure. This is accompanied by a high rate of molecular remission.
Multicenter phase 2 trial of thalidomide in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma: adverse prognostic impact of advanced age.	Relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma has a poor outlook. Some patients respond to thalidomide; however, criteria for predicting response have not been conclusively identified. We initiated a prospective multicenter phase 2 trial in patients with relapsed/refractory myeloma using thalidomide up to the maximum dose, 800 mg/d. Interferon-alpha-2B (1.5-3.0 x 10(6) U, subcutaneously, 3 times per week) was added at week 12 if disease was responsive or stable. Patients intolerant of interferon continued thalidomide alone. Thalidomide with or without interferon was continued until disease progression. Objectives were to determine toxicity, response rate (RR), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) and to elucidate relevant prognostic factors. We enrolled 75 patients, with median age 64 years (range, 36-83 years). Median individual maximum-tolerated dose of thalidomide was 600 mg/d; 41% reached 800 mg/d. Overall RR was 28%, and 55% stable disease (SD). The only predictor for response was age 65 years or younger (38% versus 17%; P =.043). At 18 months median follow-up, the actuarial median PFS and OS were 5.5 and 14.6 months, respectively. Multivariate analysis for OS demonstrated age exceeding 65 years (median, 9.2 months versus longer than 26 months; P =.011), raised serum lactate dehydrogenase (P =.002), and raised serum creatinine (P =.007) predicted inferior outcomes. Nineteen patients received interferon. Ten discontinued owing to toxicity. Four of 12 patients who received interferon for longer than 4 weeks were converted from SD to partial response. Our findings confirm substantial activity of thalidomide in relapsed/refractory myeloma. Interferon may improve response in selected patients, but is often not tolerated. The inferior outcome demonstrated in those with the identified prognostic factors is important in planning management for such patients.
Treatment and survival of 38 female breast lymphomas: a population-based study with clinical and pathological reviews.	Breast lymphomas are rare and consensus about their treatment is lacking. A population-based study of 38 breast lymphomas, registered in the databases of two Comprehensive Dutch Cancer Centers from 1981 to 1999, was performed. The median age of all female patients was 65 years (20-92): 25 patients had localized and 13 patients had disseminated lymphoma. The most common type was diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), which accounted for 17 of the localized and 4 of the disseminated cases. Burkitt's lymphoma (BL), three being disseminated, was found in four patients. There were six extranodal marginal zone lymphomas (ENMZL), three being localized. Seven DLBCL and one BL showed additional histological features of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma. Localized aggressive lymphomas treated with surgery and/or radiation therapy had relapse rates of 100% and 67%, respectively. Cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunomycin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP)-like chemotherapy with or without local irradiation led to 17% relapses in patients with localized aggressive lymphoma. Median follow-up time was 32 months (0.6-218); 37% of the patients relapsed and 24% had progressive disease. Response to salvage regimens, given to 91% of the patients with recurrent disease, was poor. The 2-year overall survival rate was 63%, 72% for patients with localized disease, and 46% for patients with disseminated lymphoma. The majority of breast lymphomas are localized aggressive lymphomas that should be treated initially with CHOP-like chemotherapy with or without irradiation. The initial choice of treatment is very important because response to salvage regimens is poor.
Salvage technique for treatment of periplafond tibial fractures: the modified fibula-pro-tibia procedure.	We describe a technique of fixation for treatment of distal tibia periplafond fractures and nonunions that uses a modification of the principle of the fibula-pro-tibia procedure (fusing the tibia and fibula together to create a one-bone lower leg). The fibula is plated, and the screws are brought across to the medial tibial cortex. The procedure is accomplished with or without a tibial buttress plate and always includes iliac crest bone grafting of the nonunion site and synostosis. We have used this technique in five patients with satisfaction.
Role of autologous stem cell transplantation in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Autologous hematopoietic stem sell transplantation is increasingly considered for treatment of patients with high-risk chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Patients not eligible for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation with poor prognosis disease, documented chemosensitivity, and a minimal tumor burden at the time of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation can be treated with autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation currently using peripheral blood stem cells. Different purging methods to obtain sources of stem cells free of tumor contamination are currently being evaluated. Major concerns are judicious selection of which patients may benefit from this approach, the subsequent risk of relapse of disease, and the long-term risk of development of secondary malignancies, including myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myelogenous leukemia. Recognizing and reducing the risk factors that contribute to relapse and complications of the procedure should improve outcome after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. With the increasing use, increasing effectiveness, and low treatment-related mortality associated with nonmyeloablative conditioning regimens, the question of whether a patient should be offered autologous or allogeneic hematopoietic stem sell transplantation can be a difficult one. Defining salvage settings for relapse and implementing a tandem autologous/allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation approach may provide a method to improve outcome for selected patients.
Therapy with atazanavir plus saquinavir in patients failing highly active antiretroviral therapy: a randomized comparative pilot trial.	To assess the safety, efficacy of atazanavir (400 and 600 mg)/saquinavir (1200 mg) once daily versus ritonavir/saquinavir (400 mg/400 mg) twice daily with two nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) in highly active antiretroviral therapy failure.
The long-term clinical outcomes after rescue percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with acute myocardial infarction.	Rescue percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has been used to treat patients after failed thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction. However, the short- and long-term benefits of rescue PCI have not been known exactly. The goal of this study was to examine the clinical and angiographic outcomes, the success rate of the procedure, and the long-term survival rate after rescue PCI. The clinical and angiographic outcomes of 31 patients (Group I; 59.7 +/- 11.4 years, 80.6% male), who underwent rescue PCI were compared with those of 177 patients (Group II; 59.7 +/- 9.7 years, 79.7% male), who underwent primary PCI at Chonnam National University Hospital between January 1997 and December 1999. There were no significant differences in the risk factors for coronary artery diseases except for smoking (Group I; 24/31, 77.4% vs. Group II; 76/177, 42.9%, P = 0.011). The incidence of cardiogenic shock was higher in Group I than in Group II (Group I; 7/31, 22.6% vs. Group II; 11/177, 6.2%, P = 0.021). The coronary angiographic findings were not different between two groups, except for Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) flow of Group I was lower than in Group II (Group I; 1.14 +/- 0.93 vs. Group II; 1.61 +/- 1.14, P = 0.001). The primary success rate was 93.6% (29/31) in Group I and 94.9% (168/177) in Group II (P = 0.578). The baseline ejection fraction was lower in Group I than in Group II (Group I; 44.2 +/- 8.9% vs. Group II; 50.8 +/- 11.7, P = 0.023), which improved in both groups (Group I; 51.7 +/- 7.9% vs. Group II; 60.7 +/- 13.4%, P = 0.001 respectively) at 6 months after the procedures. The survival rates of Group I were 93.5%, 93.5%, and 90.3% and those of Group II were 94.5%, 93.7%, and 91% at 1, 6, and 12 months, respectively. Rescue PCI is associated with the risk factor of smoking. The indication for rescue PCI was more common in patents with cardiogenic shock. The success rate of rescue PCI was comparable to that of primary PCI, and left ventricular function is improved after rescue PCI on long-term clinical follow-up with relatively high survival rate.
Brachytherapy boost to the tumour bed in high risk patients after limited surgery for breast cancer.	The results of treatment for 174 patients at high risk of local recurrence, referred for radiotherapy after conservative surgery for early breast cancer, are evaluated. Microscopic margin involvement, extensive carcinoma in situ, and vascular/lymphatic invasion were the main risk factors for local recurrence. Whole-breast irradiation (40 Gy in 15 fractions over 3 weeks) followed with a brachytherapy boost (Ir192 wire implant or PDR Ir192) of 25 Gy was applied. Median follow-up was 80 months. The actuarial 6-year overall survival rate was 91% and the within breast recurrence-free survival was 88%. The most common risk factor among those recurring within the breast was involved surgical margins (13 out of 17). Cosmesis was reported to be good or excellent in 79% of cases. In patients at high risk for local recurrence, tumour-bed boost with brachytherapy can provide satisfactory local control after limited surgery and external radiotherapy.
Fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide for the treatment of advanced chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Therapeutic results in advanced chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are still unsatisfactory in terms of complete remission achievement and duration, in spite of the extensive use of purine analogs. The objective of this study was to describe the clinical characteristics and treatment results from a series of 32 patients managed with a therapeutic program based on the combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (CTX).
The treatment of multiple myeloma with docetaxel (an ECOG study).	Docetaxel has activity against multiple malignancies. In a previous ECOG study of untreated patients with multiple myeloma, paclitaxel was found to have mild activity, but had excessive toxicity. Docetaxel was evaluated in patients with relapsing or refractory multiple myeloma.
Radiation dosimetry results from a Phase II trial of ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin) radioimmunotherapy for patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and mild thrombocytopenia.	This was a 30-patient Phase II trial of reduced-dose (90)Y ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin) RIT for patients with low-grade, follicular, or transformed B-cell NHL and mild thrombocytopenia. Patients were given an imaging dose of (111)In-labeled ibritumomab tiuxetan for dosimetry measurements. One week later, patients were administered a therapeutic dose of 0.3 mCi/kg (11 MBq/kg) (90)Y ibritumomab tiuxetan. Both (111)In- and (90)Y-labeled ibritumomab tiuxetan doses were preceded by an infusion of 250 mg/m(2) rituximab (Rituxan, MabThera) an unlabeled chimeric anti-CD20 antibody, to clear peripheral blood B cells and improve biodistribution of the radiolabeled antibody. For all 30 patients, normal organ and red marrow radiation absorbed doses were well below protocol-defined limits of 2000 cGy and 300 cGy, respectively. Median radiation absorbed doses were 48 cGy to red marrow (range: 6.5-95 cGy), 393 cGy to liver (range: 92-1581 cGy), 522 cGy to spleen (range: 165-1711 cGy), 162 cGy to lungs (41-295 cGy), and 14 cGy to kidneys (0.03-65 cGy). Though most correlative analyses were negative, certain analyses demonstrated a statistically significant correlation between the severity or duration of thrombocytopenia and pharmacokinetic or dosimetric parameters. These correlations were not consistent across the total patient population, and therefore, could not be exploited to predict hematologic toxicity.
Additional radiation absorbed dose estimates for Zevalin radioimmunotherapy.	Zevalin (ibritumomab tiuxetan) radioimmunotherapy is a novel treatment for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). The Zevalin regimen includes 5 mCi (111)In-labeled Zevalin on Day 1, followed by serial anterior and posterior planar gamma images for imaging or dosimetry. On Day 8, patients receive 0.4 mCi/kg (90)Y Zevalin for radioimmunotherapy. Both Zevalin doses are preceded by 250 mg/m(2) rituximab to clear peripheral B cells and improve biodistribution of the radiolabeled antibody. In a 143-patient, Phase III, randomized study, the Zevalin regimen produced a significantly higher overall response rate than rituximab for relapsed or refractory, low-grade, follicular, or transformed NHL (80% versus 56%, p = 0.02). Fifteen patients from the Zevalin arm of this study were randomly selected for additional radiation dosimetry. (90)Y residence times were calculated from (111)In image analysis data. MIRDOSE3.1 radiation absorbed dose estimates to normal tissues were highest for spleen, testes, and liver, with considerably lower doses reaching heart, lung, intestines, red marrow, and kidneys. Radiation absorbed doses to organs and marrow were within a safe range following administration of 0.4 mCi/kg (90)Y Zevalin.
Latissimus dorsi muscle flap based on arterial branch to serratus anterior as salvage of a failed bipedicled transverse rectus abdominis muscle flap. A case report.	We present a case of a failed bipedicled (unilateral rectus flap with superior epigastric pedicle preserved and inferior epigastric vessels anastomosed to the thoracodorsal trunk as the second pedicle) transverse rectus abdominis muscle flap that had compromised the dominant pedicle of the latissimus dorsi muscle. A salvage procedure was possible using this muscle as a pedicle flap based on the back-flow from the serratus anterior arterial branch with success. The use of the reconstructive ladder is highlighted.
Salvage chemotherapy with a combination of irinotecan hydrochloride and mitomycin C in platinum- and paclitaxel-resistant epithelial ovarian cancer: case reports.	The efficacy and toxicity of salvage chemotherapy with a combination of irinotecan hydrochloride (CPT-11) and mitomycin C (MMC) for platinum-and paclitaxel-resistant epithelial ovarian cancer are reported.
Radiation therapy for esthesioneuroblastoma: rationale for elective neck irradiation.	Esthesioneuroblastoma is an uncommon malignancy of neural crest origin arising in the upper nasal cavity. We describe the University of Florida experience using radiation therapy (RT) in the treatment of this neoplasm, particularly the use of elective nodal irradiation.
Treatment outcome for synchronous locoregional failures of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.	To review the outcome and evaluate the prognostic factors in the treatment of synchronous locoregional failures of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC).
Phase II trial of cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, and interferon-alpha-2B as first line treatment of advanced urothelial cancer.	Cisplatin based combination chemotherapy remains the mainstay for treatment of advanced urothelial cancer. The combination of 5-fluorouracil and interferon has been found to be effective second line treatment of advanced urothelial cancer. Hence, we tested the combination of cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil and interferon as first line therapy in advanced urothelial cancer. Eligible patients had to have no prior chemotherapy or interferon. Treatment consisted of cisplatin 80 mg/m(2) on day one, followed by 5-fluorouracil 750 mg/m(2) as a daily infusion for 5 days and interferon alpha 2 B 5 MU/m(2) subcutaneously daily on day 1-5 of 5-fluorouracil infusion. Cycles repeated every 21 days. Eighteen patients, of which sixteen were males were enrolled. Median age was 60 years. All patients had transitional-cell carcinoma. The median number of cycles given was 4. Thirteen patients were evaluable for response. Two patients achieved CR and 3 PR for an overall response rate of 28% (95% confidence interval 7% to 49%). Median response duration was 8.3 months. Median survival was 5.5 months. Four patients died secondary to chemotherapy toxicities. Those were GI perforation in one, bronchopneumonia in one, acute renal failure in one and one patient died at home 3 weeks following the third cycle. The above regimen demonstrates excessive toxicity and moderate activity. It cannot be recommended in its present format. Novel anti-cancer agents need to explored.
High-dose myeloablative therapy and autologous peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation for elderly patients (greater than 65 years of age) with relapsed large cell lymphoma.	Eleven elderly patients (older than 65 years) with relapsed large cell lymphoma were treated with high-dose myeloablative therapy and autologous peripheral blood progenitor cell support (ABMT). All 11 patients were in sensitive relapse at the time of ABMT. Treatment-related mortality was 9%. Median CD34 cell collection was 4.8 x 10(6) cells/kg. Median time to hematologic recovery was 11 days for granulocytes (range, 9 to 16 days) and 18 days for platelets (range, 14 to 42 days). Nine of 11 patients (81%) achieved a complete response following ABMT. Median time to treatment failure was 17 months. The 4-year disease-free and overall survival is projected to be 44%. When compared with a cohort of patients under age 65 years with sensitive relapsed large cell lymphoma treated with ABMT during the same time interval, disease-free and overall survival are comparable. ABMT is feasible, tolerable, and effective in elderly patients with relapsed large cell lymphoma with disease-free survival rates comparable to younger patients.
Salvage or planned esophagectomy after chemoradiation therapy for locally advanced esophageal cancer--a review.	Definitive chemoradiation (without esophagectomy) and neoadjuvant chemoradiation followed by planned esophagectomy are commonly used treatments for locally advanced esophageal cancer. These two treatment strategies have similar survival outcomes, so the value of planned esophagectomy is debated. However, persistence or recurrence of local disease is not uncommon after definitive chemoradiation. Salvage esophagectomy for isolated local failures of definitive chemoradiation is an option for selected patients. In this article we review the debate over definitive chemoradiation versus neoadjuvant chemoradiation and surgery, and then restate the argument in terms of salvage versus planned esophagectomy. Although both forms of esophagectomy are done in the setting of previous chemoradiation, they are different in several ways. Salvage esophagectomy appears to be a more morbid operation than planned esophagectomy. Surgeons supportive of the salvage esophagectomy strategy face the challenge of reducing its postoperative mortality.
Improved prognosis of patients with intermediate- and poor-risk nonseminomatous germ cell tumours by optimizing combined treatment.	To assess whether the optimal use of combined treatment with chemotherapy and appropriately timed surgical intervention by a specialized team might improve the outcome for patients with poor- and intermediate-prognosis (International Germ Cell Consensus Classification, IGCCC) nonseminomatous germ cell tumours (NSGCTs).
Rates of disease progression among human immunodeficiency virus-infected persons initiating multiple-drug rescue therapy.	To characterize survival and to compare rates of disease progression to death of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients, between those initiating multiple-drug rescue therapy (MDRT) and those antiretroviral-inexperienced initiating triple-drug antiretroviral therapy (ART), we conducted a population-based analysis of HIV-infected men and women aged > or =18 years in British Columbia, Canada. Cumulative mortality rates were estimated by use of Kaplan-Meier methods, and Cox-proportional hazard regression was used to model the simultaneous effect of prognostic variables on survival. Cumulative mortality at 36 months was 14.2%+/-2.0% and 10.9%+/-1.0% for the MDRT and triple-drug ART groups, respectively (P=.105, log-rank test). After adjustment for other baseline prognostic variables, MDRT was found not to be a predictor of increased all-cause mortality (relative risk, 1.17; 95% confidence interval, 0.82-1.66) in multivariate analysis. Over the short-term, patients receiving MDRT had relatively low mortality. After adjustment for baseline prognostic factors, rates of survival were comparable with those in patients initiating triple-drug ART.
Postmenopausal women who progress on fulvestrant ('Faslodex') remain sensitive to further endocrine therapy.	This retrospective evaluation of data from two randomized, multicenter trials examined whether tumor responses to further endocrine therapy were seen in postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer who had progressed on both initial endocrine therapy, usually tamoxifen, and on the estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist fulvestrant ('Faslodex').
Cancer regression and autoimmunity induced by cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 blockade in patients with metastatic melanoma.	Cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) is a critical immunoregulatory molecule (expressed on activated T cells and a subset of regulatory T cells) capable of down-regulating T cell activation. Blockade of CTLA-4 has been shown in animal models to improve the effectiveness of cancer immunotherapy. We thus treated 14 patients with metastatic melanoma by using serial i.v. administration of a fully human anti-CTLA-4 antibody (MDX-010) in conjunction with s.c. vaccination with two modified HLA-A*0201-restricted peptides from the gp100 melanoma-associated antigen, gp100:209-217(210M) and gp100:280-288(288V). This blockade of CTLA-4 induced grade III/IV autoimmune manifestations in six patients (43%), including dermatitis, enterocolitis, hepatitis, and hypophysitis, and mediated objective cancer regression in three patients (21%; two complete and one partial responses). This study establishes CTLA-4 as an important molecule regulating tolerance to "self" antigens in humans and suggests a role for CTLA-4 blockade in breaking tolerance to human cancer antigens for cancer immunotherapy.
Intraoperative electron radiotherapy as a component of salvage therapy for patients with colorectal cancer and advanced nodal metastases.	To define the survival rates and relapse patterns in patients with isolated advanced nodal metastases secondary to colorectal cancer, treated with curative intent using aggressive combined-modality treatment.
Is there a role for radiation therapy in the management of Hrthle cell carcinoma?	To determine the role that radiation therapy may have in the management of resected, unresectable, and metastatic Hrthle cell carcinoma.
Complications after reconstruction by plate and soft-tissue free flap in composite mandibular defects and secondary salvage reconstruction with osteocutaneous flap.	Reconstruction of composite defects of the mandible is a challenging problem. Although the use of an osteocutaneous free flap, alone or in combination with another soft-tissue free flap, is generally accepted to be optimal, the bony reconstruction is sometimes undervalued, especially when the cancer is advanced. In such situations, reconstruction is often performed with a reconstruction plate covered with a soft-tissue free flap. Between January of 1997 and July of 2000, 80 patients with composite or extensive composite oromandibular defects underwent treatment with a reconstruction plate and a soft-tissue free flap. All of the patients were male, and the ages of the patients at the time of treatment ranged from 32 to 78 years (mean, 51 years). Tumors were classified as stage IV in 56 patients (70 percent), whereas the remaining 24 patients (30 percent) had recurrent carcinomas. The titanium mandibular reconstruction system manufactured by Stryker (Freiburg, Germany) was used to bridge the mandibular defects. The soft-tissue free flaps used for wound and plate coverage were as follows: anterolateral thigh flap (n = 75), radial forearm flap (n = 3), transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap (n = 1), and tensor fasciae latae flap (n = 1). Five patients with recurrent carcinomas and 10 with stage IV carcinomas (18.75 percent) died 2 to 6 months after the operation and were excluded from the study. The remaining 65 patients were monitored for an average follow-up period of 22 months (range, 6 to 40 months). During that period, one or more complications occurred for 45 patients (69.2 percent). Plate exposure was the most common complication and was observed for 30 patients (46.15 percent). Twenty of the 65 patients (30.8 percent) required secondary salvage reconstruction with a fibula osteoseptocutaneous flap. The decision to perform a secondary salvage procedure was based on the general health of the patient, the extent of local disease, and the severity of the complications. Patients underwent salvage operations after an average of 11.5 months (range, 6 to 26 months). The major reasons for the second operation were as follows: reconstruction plate exposure (n = 12), soft-tissue deficiency and mandibular contour deformation of the lateral face (n = 7), intraoral contracture and lack of a gingivobuccal sulcus (n = 6), trismus (n = 4), and osteoradionecrosis of the mandible (n = 2). The total flap survival rate was 90 percent (18 of 20 free flaps). In two cases, the skin paddles of the fibula osteoseptocutaneous flaps exhibited partial failure and were revised with pedicled pectoralis major and deltopectoral flaps. The reconstruction plate and free soft-tissue flap procedure for the reconstruction of composite defects of the oromandibular region has many late complications, which eventually necessitate reconstruction of the mandible with an osteocutaneous free flap.
A realistic complication analysis of 70 sural artery flaps in a multimorbid patient group.	The popularity of the sural artery flap has increased markedly throughout the years, and favorable results are reported almost uniformly. Previous publications have mainly presented results of small groups and of predominantly younger patients with posttraumatic defects, or they have reported technical modifications of the sural artery flap. The authors have increasingly used the reversed sural artery flap in a high-risk, critically multimorbid, and older patient population, and in contrast to the results of other authors, a considerable necrosis rate of 36 percent was seen. For the first time, a detailed, critical, retrospective complication analysis of 70 sural artery flaps is presented. The results reveal the following risk factors, which can potentially impair successful defect coverage and thus contribute to flap complications: concomitant diseases, particularly diabetes mellitus; peripheral arterial disease or venous insufficiency, which increase the risk of flap necrosis five-fold to six-fold; and patient age of over 40 years, because of an increased rate of comorbidity, underlying osteomyelitis, and the use of a tight subcutaneous tunnel. However, age alone did not seem to represent a risk factor by itself. Given the results of the analysis, the operative procedure was altered, as follows. In cases in which a lesser saphenous vein cannot be found, a delay procedure is recommended, or the flap is not utilized. In addition, an external fixation device seems to facilitate postoperative care markedly without adding specific complications; it is recommended in most patients. This analysis emphasizes specific risk factors that result in higher complication rates of the sural artery flap, and it leads to more realistic and appropriate expectations for this flap.
Long-term results of three-dimensional conformal adjuvant and salvage radiotherapy after radical prostatectomy.	To evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT) in the adjuvant and salvage setting after radical prostatectomy (RP).
Finasteride and flutamide therapy in patients with advanced prostate cancer: response to subsequent castration and long-term follow-up.	To report the efficacy of castration after progression on finasteride and flutamide. Standard androgen deprivation strategies for prostate cancer typically lead to castrate levels of testosterone. One alternative is the use of finasteride and flutamide.
EMR as salvage treatment for patients with locoregional failure of definitive chemoradiotherapy for esophageal cancer.	Definitive chemoradiotherapy is recognized as a standard treatment for esophageal cancer. Although most failures of this combined modality are locoregional, without distant metastasis, there are few curative treatment options available in such cases except salvage esophagectomy.
Second-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer with oxaliplatin plus raltitrexed.	Treatment with oxaliplatin plus raltitrexed has demonstrated an encouraging therapeutic index in patients with advanced colorectal cancer and malignant pleural mesothelioma. The aim of this multi-institutional study was to determine the antitumor potential of this combination in patients with metastatic gastric cancer failing prior palliative first-line chemotherapy, and to reconfirm its favorable toxicity profile.
Use of high-dose-rate brachytherapy in the management of locally recurrent rectal cancer.	Locally recurrent rectal cancer is associated with poor quality of life and has justified aggressive surgical and adjuvant approaches to control the disease. This study was designed to evaluate the use of fractionated perioperative high-dose-rate brachytherapy in association with wide surgical excision (debulking). Our hypothesis is that this combined therapy can help control locally recurrent rectal cancer.
Arthrodesis as a salvage procedure for recurrent instability of the shoulder.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of shoulder arthrodesis as a salvage procedure for recurrent shoulder instability. Eight patients with an average of seven prior stabilization attempts were reviewed retrospectively at a mean follow-up of 35 months (range, 24-83 months). The average time to bony union after arthrodesis was 3.5 months (range, 2.5-5 months). The patients reported significant overall subjective improvement as a group after fusion. None of the patients complained of instability postoperatively. All 8 stated that they would repeat the surgery again under similar preoperative circumstances. Despite limitations in function and residual pain, our results suggest that shoulder arthrodesis is a viable treatment option for patients with refractory shoulder instability.
Biology and management of AIDS-associated non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	The treatment of HIV-related lymphomas is evolving in the era of HAART. Standard-dose chemotherapy and dose-intensive therapies appear to be feasible. Whether outcomes are improved with combination chemotherapy and HAART remains unclear. Efforts aimed at developing pathogenic-based therapies will continue as the mechanisms of HIV lymphomagenesis are elucidated.
Lopinavir/ritonavir plus saquinavir in salvage therapy; pharmacokinetics, tolerability and efficacy.	Patients receiving a lopinavir/ritonavir and saquinavir dual protease inhibitor-based antiretroviral salvage regimen were studied to evaluate the pharmacokinetics, tolerability and efficacy of the regimen. Pharmacokinetic curves were obtained for lopinavir and saquinavir. Patient records were studied for adverse events and efficacy data. The pharmacokinetics of lopinavir and saquinavir were comparable with literature data, except for the saquinavir 0-12 h area under the curve and maximum concentration. The tolerability of the regimen was good and efficacy was encouraging.
Neoadjuvant hormone therapy before salvage radiotherapy for an increasing post-radical prostatectomy serum prostate specific antigen level.	We retrospectively evaluated the benefit of neoadjuvant androgen deprivation therapy administered before salvage external beam radiation treatment in patients with biochemical failure following retropubic radical prostatectomy (RRP).
Comparison between rules-based human immunodeficiency virus type 1 genotype interpretations and real or virtual phenotype: concordance analysis and correlation with clinical outcome in heavily treated patients.	We compared 2 rules-based genotype interpretation systems and real or virtual phenotype through a retrospective analysis of a prospective trial. Genotypes were determined with VircoGEN II (VIRCO) and were interpreted with either RetroGram 1.4 or TRUGENE HIV-1 (guidelines 3.0) or original virtual phenotype (Virtual Phenotype; VIRCO), as available in the year 2000. Among 188 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) type 1 isolates, overall concordance (kappa agreement) was observed for the 2 rules-based systems, whereas striking discordances were noted between them and real and virtual phenotype interpretations for stavudine, didanosine, zalcitabine, abacavir, and amprenavir (kappa<0.4). Clinical evaluation of a subset of 173 patients showed that both rules-based sensitivity scores were independently associated with HIV RNA loads <400 copies/mL at week 16 of during-treatment analysis (TRUGENE: odds ratio [OR], 2.90; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.52-5.52; P=.001; RetroGram: OR, 2.34; 95% CI, 1.21-4.55; P=.012), whereas, in contrast to real or virtual phenotype, interpretations according to biological cut-offs were not (OR, 1.91; 95% CI, 0.77-4.76; P=.162).
Evaluation for the development of 11q23 rearrangements in lymphoma patients treated with a high dose VP-16 and cyclophosphamide salvage regimen.	Patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoma often require treatment with aggressive chemotherapy. At McGill University, a combination of high dose VP-16 and cyclophosphamide (VP-CY) is commonly used as a salvage regimen. In recent years, cytogenetic abnormalities of the long arm of chromosome 11 at band 23 (11q23) have been linked to the use of VP-16, and may be associated with secondary myelodysplastic syndrome or acute leukemia. Therapy related 11q23 anomalies have not been widely studied in lymphoma patients. We have identified and reviewed the course of 107 patients who have been treated with VP-CY. Thirty-five patients remain alive and 21 consented to participate in our study. Patient bone marrows were studied morphologically, cytogenetically and molecularly, to identify any new changes that may have developed over the course of their treatment, with a special emphasis on the search for 11q23 rearrangements. Mean time between VP-CY treatment and marrow evaluation was 3.6 years. Of the 21 patients, 5 had Hodgkin's disease (HD) and 16 had non Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). They received a total of 30 cycles of VP-CY. Response rate was 100%, with 16 complete and 5 partial responses. Eighteen patients later underwent autologous stem cell transplantation. At the time of study, 19 of the patients were disease free and 2 were in relapse. On morphological analysis, 12 marrows appeared normal and 6 showed mild dyserythropoiesis. Standard cytogenetics was done to examine for any new chromosomal translocations or deletions. All cytogenetic studies yielded normal results. Molecular analysis by Southern blot was done on 15 patients in a search for 11q23 rearrangements, including the partial tandem duplication of ALL-1. All molecular studies were normal. We conclude that the use of VP-CY, given in our treatment schedule, does not appear to be associated with an increased risk of developing 11q23 rearrangements.
Salvage chemotherapy with donor lymphocyte infusion and STI 571 in a patient relapsing with B-lymphoblastic phase chronic myeloid leukemia after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.	Relapse is the main cause of treatment failure following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for blastic phase chronic myeloid leukemia. Treatment options including donor lymphocyte infusion, second transplantation, interferon- and re-induction chemotherapy are often unsuccessful. We report a patient with blastic phase chronic myeloid leukemia relapsing after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. The post-transplant leukemia was characterized with B-lymphoid markers and multiple genetic abnormalities including double Ph-chromosomes. The disease was treated with three courses of salvage chemotherapy combined with donor lymphocyte infusion and bcr-abl tyrosine kinase inhibitor. The leukemia proved to be non-responsive both to immune therapy and STI 571. The presented case demonstrates the need for combination approaches in post-transplant relapsed leukemia and discusses the possible contributing mechanisms of STI-571 resistance.
Characterization of viro-immunological responses in a closely followed cohort of heavily pretreated patients: evidence from the GenPheRex Study.	To assess prevalence and predictive factors of viro-immunological discordant trends in a cohort of heavily pretreated patients.
Pilot study of gemtuzumab ozogamicin, liposomal daunorubicin, cytarabine and cyclosporine regimen in patients with refractory acute myelogenous leukemia.	Multi-drug resistance (MDR) protein expression is associated with reduced gemtuzumab ozogamicin (Mylotarg) activity. Both cyclosporine-A (CSA) and liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin, DaunoXome (DNX) may reduce the negative impact of MDR. A gemtuzumab ozogamicin, DNX, cytarabine (ara-C) and CSA (MDAC) regimen was piloted in patients with refractory acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) (relapsed 10, primary refractory 1) (median age 37 years (16-67)). One (9%) patient achieved a transient CR, one CRp. Grade 3/4 toxicities included sepsis (seven patients; 63%); hyperbilirubinemia (six patients; 54%), with transaminitis in one patient; mucositis (three patients; 27%). The inclusion of CSA in a gemtuzumab ozogamicin-containing regimen is feasible. The MDAC regimen was associated with significant toxicity in a cohort of patients with very advanced AML.
An UK myeloma forum phase II study of thalidomide; long term follow-up and recommendations for treatment.	Myeloma remains incurable with conventional treatment in the vast majority of patients. The introduction of thalidomide in 1999 for the treatment of relapsed disease offers the opportunity to treat patients who have developed myelotoxicity or who are refractory to conventional chemotherapy. The optimal schedule remains unresolved and only two studies have reported long term follow-up data. We report a phase II low dose escalation study of thalidomide with long term follow-up showing overall survival (OS) of 19 months and progression free survival (PFS) of 14 months. In addition we report on the side effects and toxicity and give recommendations for the use of thalidomide in the relapsed setting based upon these findings.
DTPACE: an effective, novel combination chemotherapy with thalidomide for previously treated patients with myeloma.	To improve outcome in previously treated patients (at least two cycles of standard therapy) with multiple myeloma, thalidomide was combined with cytotoxic chemotherapy as induction therapy.
Management of port-site metastasis after laparoscopic surgery for ovarian cancer.	The purpose of this study was to define the clinical features and long-term prognosis of port-site metastasis after primary laparoscopic surgery for ovarian cancer.
Salivary gland neoplasms in children.	Of 29 patients, aged 3 to 16 years, with nonvasoformative salivary gland tumors, 21 had malignant tumors. Mucoepidermoid carcinoma was the most common; adenocarcinoma, adenoid cystic carcinoma, and acinic cell carcinoma were equally represented. Pleomorphic adenoma was the exclusive benign lesion, occurring in eight patients. Mean follow-up for patients with malignant lesions was 13.6 years (minimum, 3.5 years). Absolute 2- and 5-year survival rates were 100% and 90%, respectively. Mean follow-up for benign lesions was 15.9 years; none recurred. Superficial or total parotidectomy is the treatment of choice for malignant parotid neoplasms. Benign parotid lesions are adequately controlled with parotidectomy based on extent of disease. Facial nerve sacrifice can often be avoided. We advocate postoperative radiotherapy for high-grade lesions or those with adverse prognostic factors, such as soft-tissue extension and perineural invasion.
Long-term outcome of patients with relapsed and refractory germ cell tumors treated with high-dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow rescue.	To review the long-term outcome of patients with recurrent and refractory germ cell tumors treated with high-dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow rescue.
Salvage combination chemotherapy with cytarabine, carboplatin and steroids for relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma]	We have treated 29 patients (19 men and 10 women) with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with a combination of cytarabine (Ara-C), carboplatin (CBDCA) and prednisolone (PSL). The regimen, on days 1 to 3, included Ara-C, 400 mg/m2 i.v.; CBDCA; 250 mg/m2 i.v.; and PSL, 40 mg/m2. Since complete response was achieved in 10 patients (34.5%) and partial response in 9 (31.0%), the total response rate was 65.5%. The 50% survival duration of all patients after the initiation of this therapy was 8 months. The overall 5-year survival rate was 66.7% for those who achieved CR or PR with the Ara-C/CBDCA regimen and received high-dose chemotherapy and autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Myelosuppression was the major toxicity. Total WBC counts under 1,000/microliter were seen in 67.7% of the courses, and thrombocytopenia under 50,000/microliter was seen in 96.8%. Ara-C/CBDCA has proven to be an effective salvage regimen for patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoma. High-dose chemotherapy and autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation should be considered for salvageable patients.
Pulsed cyclophosphamide, thalidomide and dexamethasone: an oral regimen for previously treated patients with multiple myeloma.	Thalidomide is an oral agent with significant activity in one-third of patients with refractory myeloma. However, long-term continuous administration of thalidomide can be associated with significant side effects such as deep-vein thrombosis and peripheral neuropathy. Furthermore, it is not clear whether continuous administration of thalidomide is necessary for its antimyeloma effect. We performed a phase II study with a combination that was based on the intermittent administration of thalidomide.
Rescue therapy combining intermediate-dose cytarabine with amsacrine and etoposide in relapsed adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	In all, 625 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) entered the Leucmie Aigu Lymphoblastique de l'Adulte-94 trial from June 1994 to June 1999, and received a 4-week induction therapy followed either by chemotherapy alone or stem cell transplantation (SCT). In a clinical phase II study, 40 patients with standard- or high-risk ALL - except Philadelphia chromosome-positive ALL -, relapsing at least 3 months after the beginning of therapy and who did not receive any SCT, received a rescue protocol combining amsacrine 120 mg/m(2)/day, days 1-3, cytarabine 1 g/m(2)/12 h, days 1-5, and etoposide 100 mg/m(2)/day, days 1-5. All relapses occurred 'on therapy'. In all, 16 patients (40%) achieved a second complete remission. The median time to neutrophil recovery >0.5 x 10(9)/l was 27 days. The median time to platelet recovery >50 x 10(9)/l was 28 days. Extra-hematologic toxicity was mild (only one toxic death from severe infection). The median overall survival was 5.4 months. The median disease-free survival (DFS) was 3.2 months with a 3-year DFS of 12%. Unfavorable prognostic factors for complete remission achievement were: high-risk ALL at diagnosis (P=0.03), and white blood cell count at relapse >or=30 x 10(9)/l (P=0.02). No relationship was found between survival and any characteristics of the disease. Four patients underwent allogeneic SCT (two phenoidentical and two genoidentical) and three patients received autologous SCT. This treatment combining amsacrine, cytarabine, and etoposide was therefore effective and well tolerated in 'on-therapy'-relapsed ALL. However, the median DFS was short requiring the rapid completion of effective intensive postremission therapy.
Efficacy and morbidity of arc-therapy radiosurgery for cerebral arteriovenous malformations: a comparison with the natural history.	To report the results of arc-therapy radiosurgery for cerebral arteriovenous malformation (AVM) and to compare the adverse event rate with the rate expected from the natural history.
Salvage radiotherapy for palpable, locally recurrent prostate cancer after radical prostatectomy.	A retrospective study to evaluate the outcome of salvage radiotherapy (RT) for clinically apparent, palpable prostate cancer recurrence after radical prostatectomy (RP).
Cheilectomy of the hip in children.	Cheilectomy of the hip is a salvage operation for patients with pain and limitation of motion caused by a mechanical blockage of an abnormally shaped femoral head. Eight patients ranging in age from 8 to 15 years were retrospectively reviewed in order to evaluate the intermediate-term results of cheilectomy to address the separate problems of pain, range of motion, and function. A mean follow-up of 5 years is reported. Clinical records and radiographs were analyzed. All patients were found to have short-term relief of pain and an increase in hip motion. Six of the eight patients regressed in terms of increased pain and loss of range of motion 2-4 years after cheilectomy. Children with an abnormally shaped femoral head causing pain and limitation of motion can benefit for a short time from cheilectomy, even if the physes are closed.
Management of local recurrence of breast cancer.	This article reviews the management of isolated recurrences after primary treatment of breast cancer. These recurrences may occur within the breast after breast-conserving surgery, on the chest wall after mastectomy, or in the axilla. While often a marker of concurrent or future metastatic disease, local management with curative intent is advocated if the recurrence is isolated at presentation. Systemic therapy at this time (readjuvant) may well have benefit and should be more thoroughly investigated. Changes in breast cancer management, including sentinel lymph node biopsy, neoadjuvant chemotherapy, hormonal therapy and partial breast irradiation, may change the implications and management of isolated local breast, chest wall and axillary recurrences.
Interactions between amprenavir and the lopinavir-ritonavir combination in heavily pretreated patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus.	This pharmacokinetic study was designed to characterize interactions between amprenavir and the lopinavir-ritonavir combination in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus in whom previous antiretroviral therapy had failed.
Successful salvage using percutaneous vertebroplasty in cancer patients with painful spinal metastases or osteoporotic compression fractures.	Percutaneous vertebroplasty significantly improved pain, mobility and quality of life in cancer patients with bone metastases who failed radiation or with osteoporotic compression fractures. The serious complication is relatively rare.
Remarkable response to rituximab in a patient with atypical CD20(++) mantle cell lymphoma of the bone marrow leading to severe pancytopenia.	Rituximab, a chimeric monoclonal antibody which binds to the CD20 antigen, has been reported in several studies to induce remissions in low- and high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma without causing myelosuppression. We report here a case of a 68-year-old female patient with an atypical mantle cell lymphoma infiltrating only the bone marrow without leukemic involvement or any other nodal or extranodal manifestations. Progressive severe pancytopenia due to the diffuse bone marrow infiltration led to life-threatening infections following oral chlorambucil treatment. No response to chlorambucil was noted. The patient attained a complete remission after salvage therapy with four weekly infusions of single-agent rituximab at a standard dose of 375 mg/m(2). Thus, anti-CD20 antibody may be the treatment of choice for patients with CD20(+) B-non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who cannot tolerate chemotherapy due to high risk of infectious complications as a result of severe pancytopenia.
Chemo-reirradiation in persistent/recurrent head and neck cancers.	This retrospective study was carried out to evaluate the feasibility and safety of chemo-reirradiation as a salvage treatment in patients with persistent/recurrent head and neck cancers.
Second line chemotherapy with 5 fluorouracil and vinorelbine in anthracycline and taxane pretreated patients with metastatic breast cancer.	5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) and Vinorelbine (Vin) are active in the second line therapy of metastatic breast cancer (MBC). We conducted a multi-institutional phase II study to assess the activity of the combination of 5-FU and Vin in anthracycline and taxane pretreated patients with MBC.
HIV protease mutations associated with amprenavir resistance during salvage therapy: importance of I54M.	To examine the clinical significance of HIV protease mutations detected before and after therapy with amprenavir.
Benefit of treatment interruption in HIV-infected patients with multiple therapeutic failures: a randomized controlled trial (ANRS 097).	Both highly potent antiretroviral drug rescue therapy and treatment interruption have been suggested to be effective in patients with multiple treatment failure.
Virological phenotype switches under salvage therapy with lopinavir-ritonavir in heavily pretreated HIV-1 vertically infected children.	To investigate the effects of salvage therapy with lopinavir-ritonavir on HIV-1 phenotype in heavily antiretroviral experienced HIV-infected children.
High-dose therapy and autologous stem cell transplantation for multiple myeloma poorly responsive to initial therapy.	Autologous stem cell transplant (SCT) improves survival in multiple myeloma (MM) and remains the standard of care for eligible patients. Nearly a third of patients with newly diagnosed MM fail initial therapy aimed at reducing tumor burden preceding SCT (primary refractory). It is unclear if an initial response is important for successful SCT. We evaluated our experience with SCT in 50 patients with primary refractory MM and compared it to 101 patients with chemosensitive disease receiving SCT. The study cohort had a median age of 56 years (range 29-72) consisting of 87 males (58%). A total of 46 patients (92%) in the refractory group and 100 (99%) in the chemosensitive group had a response to transplant (50% or greater reduction in the M-protein). In all, 10 refractory patients (20%) and 35 (35%) in the chemosensitive group achieved a CR (P=0.06). The 1-year estimated progression-free survival from the time of transplant for the refractory group was 70% compared to 83% for the chemosensitive group (P=0.65). The lack of response to initial induction therapy does not appear to preclude a good response to SCT. We recommend that patients with primary refractory MM be offered early SCT.
The pharmacokinetics, safety, and initial virologic response of a triple-protease inhibitor salvage regimen containing amprenavir, saquinavir, and ritonavir.	The aim of this study was to quantify the change in saquinavir and amprenavir exposure when combined and used with low-dose ritonavir; to evaluate 24-week safety and immunologic and virologic response. It was a randomized, nonblinded, prospective study. There were 11 HIV-1-infected, antiretroviral-experienced, male and female subjects > or = 18 years old, median HIV-1 RNA and CD4(+) T-cell count of 4.86 log copies/mL and 10(6) cells/mm(3), respectively. Subjects were randomly assigned to receive saquinavir 1000 mg/ritonavir 100 mg every 12 hours or amprenavir 600 mg/ritonavir 100 mg every 12 hours for 7 days. After 12-hour pharmacokinetic sampling, the third protease inhibitor (PI) was added, and pharmacokinetics sampling was repeated 14 days later. Subsequent PI dosage adjustments were based on real-time pharmacokinetic assessment. Saquinavir did not affect amprenavir or ritonavir pharmacokinetics. Amprenavir decreased area under the concentration-time curve (AUC(0-12h)) and C(12h) for saquinavir 82 and 61%, and 74 and 75% for ritonavir. An adjusted PI regimen of amprenavir 600 mg/saquinavir 1400 mg/ritonavir 200 mg every 12 hours returned saquinavir exposure to baseline. At 24 weeks, HIV RNA declined a median of 1.55 log copies/mL and CD4(+) T-cell counts increased a median of 52 cells/mm(3). Gastrointestinal events predominated and were mild to moderate. These data suggest that amprenavir/saquinavir/ritonavir may be a viable salvage regimen in heavily PI-experienced individuals. New formulations of amprenavir and saquinavir may simplify this regimen.
Stereotactic radiosurgical treatment in 103 patients for 153 cerebral melanoma metastases.	To report on the outcome of patients with melanoma brain metastases treated with stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS).
Microsurgical free flap reconstruction outcomes in head and neck cancer patients after surgical extirpation and intraoperative brachytherapy.	The management of recurrent or persistent head and neck cancer poses a challenging problem. Salvage surgery for these individuals consists of ablative surgery, interstitial brachytherapy, and microsurgical free flap reconstruction. This study reviews complications after such reconstruction.
Effectiveness of intratympanic dexamethasone injection in sudden-deafness patients as salvage treatment.	To study the effectiveness of intratympanic dexamethasone (IT-DEX) in patients with severe or profound sudden sensorineural hearing loss (SSNHL) after treatment failure with conventional therapy.
Efficacy, safety and predictive factors of virological success of a boosted amprenavir-based salvage regimen in heavily antiretroviral-experienced HIV-1-infected patients.	Amprenavir (APV) has been shown to be effective in naive or treatment-experienced HIV-1 infected patients. However, the safety and efficacy of the APV 600 mg/ritonavir (RTV) 100 mg twice a day (bid) combination, the usually recommended dosage for boosted APV, have been less well studied. We assessed the predictive factors associated with virological success of APV/RTV-based regimens.
Gefitinib (ZD1839) monotherapy as a salvage regimen for previously treated advanced non-small cell lung cancer.	A worldwide compassionate-use program has enabled >42,000 patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) to receive gefitinib treatment. Here we report the outcome of gefitinib therapy in patients who enrolled in the "Iressa" Expanded Access Program at the Samsung Medical Center.
Auditory brainstem implant as a salvage treatment after unsuccessful cochlear implantation.	The present article investigates on an individual basis the performance achieved with the auditory brainstem implant in patients who had been treated unsuccessfully with a cochlear implant.
Polymorphism within the cyclin D1 gene is associated with an increased risk of carcinoma in situ in patients with superficial bladder cancer.	To evaluate the prognostic value of CCND1 polymorphism in superficial and invasive transitional cell cancer of the bladder.
Long-term outcome of patients with prostate cancer and pathologic seminal vesicle invasion (pT3b): effect of adjuvant radiotherapy.	To evaluate the long-term outcome of patients with prostate cancer who have pathologic seminal vesicle invasion without lymph node metastasis (pT3bN0M0) and compare management strategies.
Revision of malaligned triple arthrodesis: a case report.	Malalignment of a triple arthrodesis can pose significant challenges to the foot and ankle surgeon. Lack of a plantigrade foot will not be well tolerated by the patient and will often require revision of the original surgery. This article presents a review of the treatment algorithm used to address this unique problem. A case study based on this approach is also presented.
Second-line weekly paclitaxel in patients with inoperable non-small cell lung cancer who fail combination chemotherapy with cisplatin.	This phase II study was designed to assess single-agent paclitaxel (Taxol), as second-line chemotherapy.
Phase II study of docetaxel and carboplatin as second-line treatment in NSCLC.	Aim of this study was to evaluate activity and toxicity of docetaxel and carboplatin as second-line treatment in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients who failed or relapsed after previous chemotherapy. Patients had to have unresectable stage IIIb or IV NSCLC, previous chemotherapy, a performance status < or = 2, a normal bone marrow reserve, and an adequate renal and liver function. Treatment consisted of docetaxel 75 mg/m2 and carboplatin AUC 6 mg/ml min administered every 3 weeks for a maximum of 5 cycles. Fifty-seven patients with a median age of 57 years were included. Prior treatment consisted of gemcitabine alone (n = 2) or gemcitabine in combination with cisplatin (n = 26) or epirubicin (n = 29). Median number of cycles for carboplatin and docetaxel was 4. Granulocytopenia and thrombocytopenia common toxicity criteria (CTC) grades 3 and 4 occurred in 79 and 30% of patients, respectively. Febrile neutropenia occurred in eight patients (14%), of whom two patients died. Fatigue grades 2 and 3 occurred in 42% of patients. Other non-haematological toxicity was mild. Tumour response rate was 37%, irrespective of the previous regimen. Median survival was 31 weeks, 1-year survival was 32%. In conclusion, the combination of docetaxel and carboplatin is active as second-line treatment in platinum and non-platinum pre-treated patients.
Importance of additional microvascular anastomosis in esophageal reconstruction after salvage esophagectomy.	Esophageal reconstruction after salvage esophagectomy in patients who have undergone curative-intent chemoradiotherapy for esophageal cancer is associated with a significant risk of perioperative morbidity and mortality. In particular, anastomotic leakage can cause severe and potentially fatal complications, including mediastinitis and pneumonia. The authors performed esophageal reconstruction with a pedicled right colon graft after salvage esophagectomy in eight patients. To decrease the rate of anastomotic leakage, the authors performed an additional microvascular anastomosis at the distal end of the graft. The distal stumps of the ileocolic artery and vein were anastomosed to the cervical vessels. After surgery, aspiration pneumonia and localized wound infection were observed in two patients each, but slight anastomotic leakage was observed in only one patient. Postoperative swallowing function was satisfactory in all patients. Although the incidence of anastomotic leakage is reportedly high, the authors observed anastomotic leakage in only one of eight patients. The authors believe that additional microvascular anastomosis helps prevent anastomotic leakage, especially in patients who have undergone salvage esophagectomy after curative chemoradiotherapy.
Cost and efficacy of therapeutic strategies in candidates for heart transplantation as salvage therapy]	A study of the real cost, the cost-effectiveness of treatment was performed in 31 cases of cardiogenic shock referred for cardiac transplantation, treated in a flexible therapeutic protocol associating implantation of an expensive mechanical circulatory support system (mechanical bridge) or treatment by drugs alone (pharmacological bridge) depending on the efficacy of IV enoximone. The average patient cost was 238,386 French Francs, ranging from 440,353 FF in patients receiving the mechanical bridge to 199,296 FF in those receiving the pharmacological bridge. The cost-effectiveness ratio expressed either as cost per patient surviving the different stages of the disease or as cost of obtaining an additional day of survival at the same intervals was twice as favourable in the group receiving the pharmacological treatment. This study suggests that IV enoximone and strict selection procedures for candidates for the more expensive option should help bring together the interest of the individual patient and of society as a whole.
Effectiveness of brachytherapy and fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy boost for persistent nasopharyngeal carcinoma.	Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) with local persistence after primary radiotherapy carries a high risk of treatment failure. We compared the effectiveness of brachytherapy and a fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy (SRT) boost in improving tumor control.
Intravenous 6-mercaptopurine decreases salvage after relapse in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a report from the Children's Cancer Group study CCG 1922.	To compare outcomes of patients with NCI standard risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who relapsed after being randomized to receive either oral or intravenous 6-mercaptopurine (6MP) in the Children's Cancer Group study CCG 1922.
Ex vivo expansion of megakaryocyte precursor cells in autologous stem cell transplantation for relapsed malignant lymphoma.	To evaluate the impact of ex vivo expanded megakaryocyte (MK) progenitors on high-dose chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia, we conducted a phase II study in 10 patients with relapsed lymphoma. Two fractions of peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) were cryopreserved, one with enough cells for at least 2 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg and a second obtained after CD34+ selection. Ten days before autologous stem cell transplantation, the CD34+ fraction was cultured with MGDF+SCF for 10 days. After BEAM (BCNU, cyclophosphamide, cytarabine, and melphalan) chemotherapy, patients were reinfused with standard PBPC and ex vivo expanded cells. No toxicity was observed after reinfusion. The mean fold expansion was 9.27 for nucleated cells, 2 for CD34+ cells, 676 for CD41+ cells, and 627 for CD61+ cells. The median date of platelet transfusion independence was day 8 (range: 7-12). All patients received at least one platelet transfusion. In conclusion, ex vivo expansion of MK progenitors was feasible and safe, but this procedure did not prevent BEAM-induced thrombocytopenia. Future studies will determine if expansion of higher numbers of CD34+ cells towards the MK-differentiation pathway will translate into a functional effect in terms of shortening of BEAM-induced thrombocytopenia.
Rescue for rare complications of the hepatic artery in living donor liver transplantation using grafts of autologous inferior mesenteric artery.	This report describes two rescued cases with rare complications of the hepatic artery in living-donor liver transplantation (LDLT). In both cases a segment of the autologous inferior mesenteric artery (IMA) was successfully used as an arterial graft for re-vascularization under microsurgery. The first case was that of a pseudoaneurysm of the hepatic artery, which caused massive gastrointestinal bleeding. The hepatic arteries of the pre- and post-aneurysm were divided, and the arterial graft from the recipient's IMA was interposed for reconstruction. The second case was that of an intimal dissection of the recipient's hepatic artery. Because the dissection extended to the root of the common hepatic artery, the autologous IMA was interposed between the donor's hepatic artery and the proximal stump of the recipient's splenic artery. Reconstruction using the arterial graft of the autologous IMA is feasible for re-vascularization of the hepatic artery in liver transplantation.
Autologous and allogeneic stem-cell transplantation as salvage treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia initially treated with all-trans-retinoic acid: a retrospective analysis of the European acute promyelocytic leukemia group.	To retrospectively determine the outcome of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) patients who underwent autologous or allogeneic stem-cell transplantation (SCT) during second complete remission.
Diagnosis, treatment and prognostic factors of adenoid cystic carcinoma of the palate]	To explore the clinical characteristics, diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of adenoid cystic carcinoma of the palate.
Phase II study of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin in heavily pretreated epithelial ovarian cancer patients. May a new treatment schedule improve toxicity profile?	Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) has shown promising activity in the treatment of recurrent ovarian cancer but skin toxicity remains the dose-limiting toxicity of the drug. The aim of this study was to investigate whether a different treatment schedule may improve the toxicity profile, especially in terms of dermatological and mucosal toxicity.
Liposomal nystatin in patients with invasive aspergillosis refractory to or intolerant of amphotericin B.	We assessed the activity and safety of liposomal nystatin, a broad-spectrum antifungal agent, for invasive aspergillosis in patients refractory to or intolerant of amphotericin B. Thirty-three patients were enrolled, received at least one dose of the study drug, and were evaluable for safety. Twenty-six patients had confirmed probable or definite aspergillosis and were fully eligible. Most patients had a hematological malignancy (53.8%) or hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (23.0%), were neutropenic (61.5%), and were refractory to previous amphotericin B (92.3%). The median duration of previous amphotericin B treatment was 16.5 days (range, 5 to 64 days). Aspergillosis was definite in 3 cases and probable in 23 cases. Liposomal nystatin was initiated at a dose of 4 mg/kg of body weight/day. Twenty-five patients were evaluable for response: a complete response was achieved for one patient, and a partial response was achieved for six. Thus, the overall response rate is 7 of 25 (28%; 95% confidence interval, 12 to 49%). Seventeen (68.0%) of the 25 evaluable patients died during therapy or within 1 month after the end of therapy. The primary cause of death was invasive aspergillosis for nine patients and underlying malignancy for eight patients. The most frequent side effects included chills, shivering, and fever, leading to discontinuation of therapy for two patients. Grade 1 decline in renal function was seen for 10 (30.3%) patients, and hypokalemia was seen for 13 (39.4%). We conclude that liposomal nystatin can be effective for salvage therapy of invasive aspergillosis. Infusion-related adverse events have been observed frequently.
Very late central nervous system relapse in a patient with B cell lymphoblastic lymphoma.	Very late relapse of lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL) is very rare. We report a case of a patient who developed central nervous system (CNS) relapse of LBL 16 years after the onset of the primary disease. An 8-year-old girl was hospitalized with a skin tumor in the occipital region on November 27, 1984. Examination of a biopsy of the skin tumor showed typical features of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (diffuse medium-sized cell type). She received multiagent chemotherapy and went into remission. On July 4, 2000, she was hospitalized with persistent headache. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging showed a cerebellar lesion, which was hypointense on T1-weighted images and of heterogeneous intensity on T2-weighted images. A midline suboccipital craniotomy was performed and pathological examination revealed a diffuse proliferation of lymphoid cells, which were positive for terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase, but negative for CD45RO, CD3 and CD20. Tumor cells stained positively for CD10, CD22, CD38 and HLA-DR. Revised immunohistochemistry of the primary specimens of skin tumor obtained 16 years earlier revealed a phenotype similar to that of the CNS disease. Polymerase chain reaction products for the immunoglobulin gene from both the skin and cerebellar specimens were an identical size. Thus, the original diagnosis of diffuse medium-sized lymphoma was revised to B cell LBL. An isolated CNS relapse of LBL was apparent in the present case. After salvage chemotherapy, the patient underwent high-dose chemotherapy with autologous peripheral blood stem cell support and subsequent craniospinal irradiation. She went into a lasting complete remission.
Randomized trial of three different regimens for 24 weeks for re-treatment of chronic hepatitis C patients who failed to respond to interferon-alpha monotherapy in Taiwan.	With the favorable result of interferon (IFN)-ribavirin combination therapy for 24 weeks among naive Taiwanese chronic hepatitis C (CHC) patients, the optimal regimens of re-treatment for CHC patients who failed initial IFN monotherapy is not well-established. The study evaluated the effectiveness of re-treatment for 24 weeks with 3 different regimens and predictors for sustained virological response (SVR).
Second-line chemotherapy with irinotecan plus carmustine in glioblastoma recurrent or progressive after first-line temozolomide chemotherapy: a phase II study of the Gruppo Italiano Cooperativo di Neuro-Oncologia (GICNO).	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), the most frequent brain tumor in adults, is not considered chemosensitive. Nevertheless, there is widespread use of first-line chemotherapy, often with temozolomide, as a therapeutic option in patients with progressive disease after surgery and radiotherapy. However, at the time of second recurrence and/or progression, active and noncross-resistant chemotherapy regimens are required. The aim of the present multicenter phase II trial, therefore, was to ascertain the efficacy of second-line carmustine (BCNU) and irinotecan chemotherapy.
Phase I study of the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib in pediatric patients with refractory solid tumors: a Children's Oncology Group study (ADVL0015).	To determine the maximum-tolerated dose, dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), and pharmacodynamics of the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (formerly PS-341) in children with recurrent or refractory solid tumors.
Dose-ranging pharmacodynamic study of tipifarnib (R115777) in patients with relapsed and refractory hematologic malignancies.	Tipifarnib, an orally bioavailable inhibitor of farnesyl transferase, has activity in hematologic malignancies, but the dose required to achieve the proposed biologic end point, inhibition of farnesylation, is unknown.
A phase II study of bendamustine chemotherapy as second-line treatment in metastatic uveal melanoma.	Uveal melanoma is the most frequent primary malignant neoplasm of the eye and has a poor prognosis in metastatic stage. Fotemustine or a combination of gemcitabine and treosulfan has demonstrated some efficacy in metastatic disease. We conducted a phase II trial to assess the second-line activity and toxicity of bendamustine hydrochloride, a nucleoside analogue with alkylating activity. Inclusion criteria were a Karnofsky performance status of > or = 60% and progressive disease during or after first-line chemotherapy. Bendamustine was administered at a dose of 120 mg/m2 on days 1 and 2. Cycles were repeated on day 22. The primary endpoint of the study was the determination of the number of patients achieving an objective response or stable disease. The secondary endpoint was toxicity. Eleven patients were enrolled into the trial. Grade III and IV toxicity consisted of anaemia, thrombocytopenia and leucocytopenia in two, one and two patients, respectively. No grade III or IV non-haematological toxicity was observed. According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST), all patients showed progressive disease. We conclude that bendamustine is ineffective as second-line chemotherapy for metastatic uveal melanoma.
Salvage chemotherapy with mitomycin, docetaxel, and irinotecan (MDI regimen) in metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma: a phase I and II trial.	This study evaluates the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and activity of mitomycin, docetaxel, and irinotecan (MDI) regimen on metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma, previously treated with gemcitabine-containing chemotherapy.
Salvage revision total knee replacement using the Endo-Model rotating hinge prosthesis.	Inability to balance a knee in complex revision total knee replacement has led to the use of rotating hinged knee devices in these cases as a salvage procedure. We conducted a retrospective study of 50 patients receiving 51 Endo-Model rotating hinge prosthesis with an average follow-up of 4 years (range 2-6 years). Clinical and radiological results were reviewed at latest follow-up. Five patients died from unrelated causes. Reasons for revision were infection (23), aseptic loosening (23), implant failure (3), stiffness (1) and peri-prosthetic fracture (1). The average number of previous surgery from and including the primary arthroplasty was three (ranges 1-14). Seven patients required plastic surgery for soft tissue cover. There was notable improvement in the pain, stability, range of motion and mobility of the patients with an improvement in the Hospital for Special Surgery Score (35.9 to 72.17). Postoperatively, 11 (22%) had an excellent HSS grade, 22 (44%) good grade, 10 (19%) fair grade and 8 (15%) poor grade. A significant number of our patients had an extremely low preoperative HSS score, and for these patients, an improvement to a fair grade HSS score was a satisfactory and realistic outcome. Forty-four (86%) patients were satisfied with the outcome of the revision surgery, 3 (6%) noncommittal and 4 (8%) disappointed. Comparing revision for infection vs. aseptic loosening, 22 (95%) patients out of 23 were satisfied in the aseptic loosening group vs. 17 (74%) out of 23 were satisfied in the infected group. In selected complex cases, salvage revision surgery shows encouraging results in the short to medium term using the Endo-Model rotating hinge prosthesis. A knee score such as the Hospital for Special Surgery score (objective outcome) should be used in conjunction with a patient satisfaction questionnaire (subjective outcome) in assessing the clinical outcome of complex, salvage revision knee surgery. Revision for infected total knee replacement is less likely to produce a satisfactory outcome as compared to revision for aseptic loosening.
Customised hinged knee replacements as a salvage procedure for failed total knee arthroplasty.	Failure of knee arthroplasty can lead to significant pain and functional disability. In a small number of patients with fracture, sepsis or massive bone loss they are considered for arthrodesis or above knee amputation. The purpose of this study was to investigate the results and complications of using customised hinged knee replacements in their place.
Phase II trial of vinorelbine for relapsed ovarian cancer: a Southwest Oncology Group study.	To assess the activity of vinorelbine in women with recurrent or resistant epithelial ovarian cancer following treatment with platinum and paclitaxel in terms of survival rate at 6 months, objective response rate (in the subset of patients with bidimensionally measurable disease), and health-related quality of life.
Retrospective analysis of weekly topotecan as salvage therapy in relapsed ovarian cancer.	To retrospectively investigate the safety and efficacy of weekly topotecan in heavily pretreated patients with ovarian cancer.
Locoregional recurrences of HNSCC: place of re-irradiations]	Unresectable forms of HNSCC relapses occurring in a previously irradiated area are relatively common and may be difficult to manage from a therapeutic point of view. Full dose re-irradiation with concomitant chemotherapy constitutes an alternative to palliative chemotherapy. Indeed, the feasibility of this approach has been shown, and may be associated with a curative potential in a relatively low proportion of these relapses.
The surgical management of recurrent urological malignancies after primary ablative therapy]	This literature review highlights the surgical management of recurrent urological malignancies after primary ablative therapy. In particular, recurrent nonseminomatous germ cell tumours (NSGCT) post-chemotherapy, recurrent bladder cancer post-cystectomy, loco-regional recurrence of prostate cancer after radiotherapy, and loco-regional recurrence of renal cell carcinoma after radical nephrectomy. The indications, operative technique, complications and outcomes of each malignancy are discussed.
Value of FDG PET in assessment of treatment response and surveillance in head-and-neck cancer patients after intensity modulated radiation treatment: a preliminary report.	[(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) imaging has been shown to be valuable in early detection of persistent and recurrent head-and-neck cancer after treatment. Previous studies have reported its use in patients treated with conventional radiation. Many patients are now treated with intensity-modulated radiation treatment (IMRT). We evaluated the value of FDG PET in the assessment of treatment response and surveillance in head-and-neck cancer patients treated with IMRT.
A reduced intensity conditioning regimen for allografting following autografting is feasible and has strong anti-myeloma activity.	Sixteen patients with stage III multiple myeloma (MM) and a median age of 51 years were treated with autografting followed by reduced intensity conditioning allotransplantation (RICT). Nine patients are alive in remission at a median of 30 months after their transplants, one patient is alive in relapse and 6 patients died of progressive disease (5) or extensive chronic graft-versus-host disease, infections and progressive disease (1). We suggest that this two-step approach is feasible and it has strong anti-myeloma activity.
Effective use of high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell rescue for relapsed adult Wilms' tumor and a novel alteration in intron 1 of the WT1 gene.	Adult Wilms' tumor (AWT) is a very rare and aggressive malignancy, and little information is available on effective therapy in adults. Although mutations in WT1 have been found in 10% to 15% of childhood Wilms' tumor patients, to date WT1 mutations in AWT patients have not been described. The authors describe a 47-year-old man with relapsed AWT and a novel germline alteration in intron 1 of WT1: IVS1-6 C-->A. This alteration may reduce the splicing efficiency for exon 2 and possibly results in exon skipping. The effective salvage chemotherapy contained ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide and was followed by a high-dose chemotherapy that contained melphalan, carboplatin, and etoposide. Both chemotherapy regimens showed moderate treatment-related toxicity. This report is the first that indicates that adult nephroblastoma patients also may carry WT1 germline mutations.
18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in evaluation of germ cell tumor after chemotherapy.	To evaluate the role of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) in the assessment of germ cell tumors after chemotherapy.
The correlation between palliation of bone pain by intravenous strontium-89 and external beam radiation to linked field in patients with osteoblastic bone metastases.	We studied the correlation between the efficacy of local external beam radiotherapy and the efficacy of strontium-89 in the palliation of osteoblastic metastatic bone pain in 43 patients with cancer. All 43 had been treated with hormonal or chemotherapy according to the primary malignancies and analgetic pharmacotherapy as needed, 36 received local external beam radiotherapy as a palliative before strontium-89 injection, and all 43 were ultimately treated with strontium-89 as salvage therapy. Responses to the first strontium treatment, and to the first radiation treatment if given, were taken from patient files. Pain was evaluated by Karnofsky performance status, analgesic dosage, and duration of response to treatment translated into numeric scores on a pain duration scale and an integrated response scale. The efficacy of limited field external radiation in metastatic bone pain palliation was 80.6% versus 58.1% for strontium-89. Patients treated with both external radiation and strontium had a positive correlation of 0.4 with a probability of P = 0.0158 between the responses to the 2 treatments, indicating that response to external radiotherapy could be viewed as an indicator of strontium-89 efficacy in metastatic osteoblastic bone pain palliation in the same patient. No significant correlation was found between strontium efficacy and gender, location of metastases to weight-bearing bones, duration of hormonal therapy or chemotherapy, or type of primary neoplasm.
VIP (etoposide, ifosfamide, cisplatin) in adult patients with recurrent or refractory Ewing sarcoma family of tumors.	Despite the fact that Ewing sarcoma family of tumors (ET) is chemosensitive, long-term survival is extremely rare for patients with primary refractory or recurrent disease. There is no standard salvage chemotherapy regimen available in this context. In this study the authors reviewed their experience with the combination of etoposide, ifosfamide, and cisplatin in adult patients with recurrent or refractory disease. From February 1997 through December 2001, they evaluated the efficacy of etoposide (75 mg/m2/day for 5 days), ifosfamide (1,200 mg/m2/day for 5 days), and cisplatin (20 mg/m2/day for 5 days) combination chemotherapy (VIP regimen), as second-line salvage therapy in 27 patients with recurrent or refractory ET. All patients were evaluated for response, time to progression, and overall survival. Twenty-one male and 6 female patients with recurrent (n = 14) and refractory (n = 13) disease were treated with the VIP regimen. Median age was 18 years (range, 16-34 years). Twenty-two patients were previously treated with vincristine, Adriamycin, ifosfamide, and actinomycin-D; and 5 patients were treated with cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin, and vincristine. Sites of recurrent or progressive disease included local (n = 3), distant (n = 11), and both local and distant (n = 13). A total of 129 cycles of VIP were given (median, 5 cycles/patient; range, 1-14 cycles/patient). One patient (4%) had a complete response (CR) and 8 patients (30%) had a partial response (PR), for an overall response rate of 34%. The median number of cycles given to patients with CR + PR was 6 (range, 3-14 cycles). Nine patients (33%) had stable disease and 9 (33%) had disease progression. Median time to progression and median overall survival were 6.6 months and 8.1 months respectively for all patients, and 12.8 months and 14.2 months respectively for responders. There were no toxic deaths. Major toxicities included grade IV granulocytopenia in 19 patients and grades III/IV thrombocytopenia in 15 patients. At a median follow-up of 8 months (range, 2-56 months), 24 patients died of disease progression, 2 patients are alive with disease, and 1 patient is alive with no evidence of disease. The authors conclude that the VIP combination is active in patients with recurrent/refractory ET, with acceptable toxicity, and offers good palliation. Cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy merits further investigation, possibly as first-line treatment in this disease.
High-dose calcitriol and carboplatin in metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer.	Calcitriol acts synergistically with carboplatin in preclinical models of adenocarcinoma of the prostate. The authors sought to test high-dose oral calcitriol in combination with carboplatin in patients with metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer. Seventeen patients received oral calcitriol (0.5 microg/kg) on day 1 and intravenous carboplatin (AUC 7 or AUC 6 in patients with prior radiation) on day 2, repeated every 4 weeks. PSA response was the primary end point and was defined as a 50% reduction confirmed 4 weeks later. Palliative response (2-point reduction or normalization of pain on the present pain intensity [PPI] scale without increased analgesic consumption) was also examined. One of 17 patients (6%, 95% CI, 0-28) achieved a confirmed PSA response. Four patients (24%, 95% CI, 7-49) had PSA reductions ranging from 24 to 38%. Of the 15 patients with a PPI > or = 1 point on entry, 3 (18%, 95% CI, 4-48) met criteria for palliative response. Treatment-related toxicity was mild and generally similar to that expected with single-agent carboplatin. Despite encouraging preclinical evidence, the addition of oral calcitriol to carboplatin in this study was not associated with an increase in the response rate when compared with the reported activity of carboplatin alone.
Successful salvage treatment of recurrent endometrial cancer with bulky central tumor and extensive lymph node metastasis. A case report.	Recurrent endometrial cancer with both local and distant metastasis is very difficult to treat. A 55-year-old endometrial adenocarcinoma patient with bulky central recurrences and pelvic and inguinal lymph node metastases underwent laparotomy and paraaortic, pelvic and inguinal lymphadenectomy followed by concurrent chemoradiation (with cisplatin) to the paraaortic and inguinal lymph nodes as well as the whole pelvis. Neck and mediastinal lymph node metastasis emerged during treatment. Neck-node radiation and epirubicin was added followed by paclitaxel and carboplatin. Complete remission was achieved. Ten months later, isolated central re-recurrence happened and total pelvic exenteration was performed. The patient has survived without further recurrence for more than five years after the exenteration. Therefore, a multimodality approach with a combination of radical resection (even pelvic exenteration), radiotherapy and chemotherapy could be offered to well-selected patients with recurrent endometrial cancer despite out-of-field progression during therapy and in-field local failure to initial salvage treatment.
Treatment of follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) represents the most common indolent lymphoma with a median survival of 10 years. A new prognostic index (FLIPI) provides prognostic information at diagnosis and at relapse. Initial treatments combining monoclonal antibody therapy using rituximab with chemotherapy appear to increase the response rate and decrease the risk of relapse with little increase in toxicity. Promising phase III trial results demonstrating improvements in outcome using rituximab have recently been reported. A number of phase II trials have also demonstrated encouraging activity combining radiolabeled antibodies in sequence with chemotherapy. The role of high-dose therapy and autologous transplantation is becoming more defined, with improvements in progression-free survival observed in the upfront and relapsed setting. The application of allogeneic transplantation, once restricted to young otherwise healthy patients has shown encouraging activity in older, relapsed, and refractory patients using nonmyeloablative conditioning regimens. These new treatment options make the management of newly diagnosed patients both exciting and a challenge.
Back from irreversibility: extracorporeal life support for prolonged cardiac arrest.	The survival of patients after prolonged cardiac arrest is still inadequate. Extracorporeal life support (ECLS) represents an alternative therapeutic method for patients who do not respond to conventional cardiopulmonary cerebral resuscitation. This technology is used to support the circulation of a patient with severe cardiac failure.
Long-term survival after salvage surgery for colorectal lung metastases.	We report the case of a patient with an extended pneumonectomy for colorectal lung metastases after the failure of multimodal treatment. Salvage surgery may be useful in highly selected patients to achieve local control, resulting in long-term disease-free survival.
Organ preservation for advanced resectable cancer of the base of tongue and hypopharynx: a Southwest Oncology Group Trial.	The Southwest Oncology Group designed a phase II trial for patients with base of tongue or hypopharyngeal cancer to evaluate the complete histologic response rate at the primary site after induction chemotherapy followed by chemoradiotherapy for responders. Secondary end points were the rate of organ preservation and the need for salvage surgery.
Salvage surgery after radical accelerated radiotherapy with concomitant boost technique for head and neck carcinomas.	Definitive radiotherapy (RT) for head and neck cancer is increasingly used to preserve organ function, whereas surgery is reserved for treatment failure. However, data are sparse regarding the feasibility of salvage surgery, particularly for unselected patients after accelerated RT.
Acoustic neuromas after failed radiation therapy: challenges of surgical salvage.	As stereotactic radiation has emerged as a treatment option for acoustic neuromas, cases that require surgical salvage after unsuccessful radiation have emerged. We present a comparison of the technical challenges faced by the surgeons in the treatment of irradiated versus nonirradiated acoustic neuromas.
Recent developments in salvage chemotherapy for patients with metastatic soft tissue sarcoma.	The number of effective cytotoxic agents for the treatment of patients with metastatic adult soft tissue sarcoma is limited, especially when patients have failed anthracycline- and ifosfamide-based chemotherapy. For the subgroup of patients with inoperable gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST), progress has been made via the rapid development and approval of the targeted therapy imatinib. Small round cell tumours (SRCTs), such as Ewing's sarcoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumour, desmoplastic SRCT and rhabdomyosarcoma, are chemotherapy-sensitive and potentially curable malignancies, which are treated with multimodality, dose-intensive, neoadjuvant protocols regardless of size or overt metastatic disease. Most other high-grade (grading >I), so-called 'adult type', soft tissue sarcomas such as fibrosarcoma, liposarcoma, pleomorphic and synovial sarcomas are treated with an anthracycline-based regimen with or without ifosfamide as front-line therapy. In relapsed 'adult type' soft tissue sarcomas, trofosfamide, gemcitabine and trabectedin (ecteinascidin 743) appear to be drugs associated with some activity and an acceptable toxicity profile. A high activity has been reported for the taxanes, in particular for paclitaxel, in vascular sarcomas located in the scalp or face and in Kaposi's sarcoma. It is interesting to note that the different drugs have particular effects in distinct subtypes of soft tissue sarcoma; however, it should be taken into account that the number of patients included in the phase II trials is limited. The role of the newer agents (e.g. epothilones, brostallicin) is currently undefinable. Targeted therapy inhibiting vascular endothelial growth factor receptor, epidermal growth factor receptor, RAF kinase, c-KIT or platelet-derived growth factor receptors will continue to be tested in GIST patients refractory to imatinib and in other sarcoma histologies.
Factors associated with the likelihood of receiving second line therapy for advanced non-small cell lung cancer.	Second-line (SL) treatment has been shown to improve survival and quality of life outcomes for patients with stage IIIB/IV non-small cell lung cancer. However, only a minority of patients will receive SL therapy and the characteristics of this population have not been well described in the literature. In an effort to define the factors that predict who is likely to receive second line treatment, we performed an analysis on 230 patients with stage IIIB or IV non-small cell lung cancer who received first line therapy with carboplatin and paclitaxel. The median age of these patients was 63, and 144 (63%) were male, 200 (87%) had stage IV disease, 106 (46%) had a KPS of 90-100% and 124 (54%) had a KPS of 70-80%. The median number of cycles of first line chemotherapy was 4. Of these patients, 101 (44%) received second line therapy (median age 57 (range 45-76), 50% male and 37% KPS 90-100%). In the univariate analysis, younger age (P = 0.015), high baseline performance status (P = 0.002), non-squamous histology (P = 0.027), female gender (P = 0.0003), two or more cycles of therapy (P = 0.0004), four or more cycles of therapy (P = 0.001), and grade 2 or greater neuropathy (P = 0.024) were significantly associated with an increased likelihood of receiving SL therapy. In the multivariate model, high baseline performance status (OR = 2.05, P = 0.015), female gender (OR = 2.69, P = 0.001), non-squamous histology (OR = 1.98, P = 0.066), and two or more cycles of therapy (OR = 5.89, P = 0.002) remained significant. In conclusion, less than 50% of patients with stage IIIB/IV non-small cell lung cancer received SL treatment. Factors increasing the likelihood of second-line therapy include high performance status, female gender and non-squamous histology, while early termination of first-line therapy decreased the likelihood of further therapy.
Current status of local salvage therapies following radiation failure for prostate cancer.	We reviewed the curative options available to patients with local failure after radical radiotherapy for prostate cancer and identified the patients best suited for such salvage therapies.
Technical considerations in tarsometatarsal joint arthrodesis.	Tarsometatarsal arthrodesis is indicated for degenerative joint disease after trauma. Deformity is often associated with post-traumatic arthropathy. Outcomes after surgical management are directly related to realignment. This article reviews the indications, preoperative evaluation, technical execution, and postoperative management of tarsometatarsal arthrodesis. Special emphasis is placed on realignment and restoration of normal foot architecture.
Salvage whole-abdominal radiation therapy after second-look laparotomy or secondary debulking surgery in patients with ovarian cancer.	Our aim was to determine the outcomes associated with use of whole-abdominal radiation therapy (WART) in women with ovarian cancer, to identify predictors of response, and to assess associated toxicity.
Organ preservation by combined modality treatment in bladder cancer: the European perspective.	Combined modality therapy, including transurethral resection, radiation therapy, and systemic chemotherapy, has been shown to produce survival rates comparable to those of radical cystectomy. With these programs, cystectomy has been reserved for patients with incomplete response or local relapse after trimodality treatment. This review summarizes European series of combined modality treatment of muscle-invasive bladder cancer and reflects our emphasis on the importance of combining radiation with a transurethral resection and cisplatin-based chemotherapy. It also documents our belief that high-grade T1 disease may be effectively treated by the same approach. This represents a true distinction between the European and US strategies. We also review the role of predictive and prognostic factors in selecting patients for the respective treatment alternatives.
Selective bladder preservation by trimodality therapy for patients with muscularis propria-invasive bladder cancer and who are cystectomy candidates--the Massachusetts General Hospital and Radiation Therapy Oncology Group experiences.	The Massachusetts General Hospital and the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group have been leading the charge for organ conservation in bladder cancer in North America for over two decades. In a series of six successive studies the group has refined the techniques and is now moving toward a translational future in which novel biologic agents will be combined with the best current strategies. The North American approach is characterized by its selective nature, in that it preselects patients likely to do well with a trimodality approach and then further selects according to the response to an induction course of chemotherapy and radiation. Only those who are complete responders move onto full dose. This "check point" allows salvage cystectomy to be performed on incomplete responders before they have had full-dose radiation. This preserves the urinary diversion options open to the surgeon as well as brings forward the time to a salvage procedure should it be needed.
Gemcitabine in intravesical treatment of Ta-T1 transitional cell carcinoma of bladder: Phase I-II study on marker lesions.	To study the ablative activity of intravesical gemcitabine against superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder at different doses and concentrations.
Comparison of late rectal toxicity from conventional versus three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy for prostate cancer: analysis of clinical and dosimetric factors.	To compare late rectal toxicity (LRT) after definitive radiotherapy (DR) and salvage radiotherapy (SR) in prostate cancer using conventional (CONV) or three-dimensional conformal (3-D) techniques.
Prognosis after local recurrence after conservative surgery and radiation for early-stage breast cancer.	To determine the long-term prognosis of patients who develop a local recurrence (LR) after conservative surgery (CS) and radiation therapy (RT) for early-stage invasive breast cancer.
Prognostic factors of glottic carcinomas treated with radiation therapy: value of the adjacent sign on radiological examinations in the sixth edition of the UICC TNM staging system.	To evaluate the predictive value of the adjacent sign, the tumor adjacent to the thyroid cartilage on radiologic examinations, in the new sixth edition of the International Union Against Cancer (UICC) staging system of glottic carcinoma.
Salvage therapy with clindamycin/primaquine for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.	Clindamycin/primaquine is effective for treating mild-to-moderate cases of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) in patients with AIDS. We retrospectively reviewed our experience with this combination among patients in whom conventional therapy had failed or was not tolerated. Twenty-six patients who experienced 28 episodes of PCP received salvage therapy with clindamycin/primaquine at two university-affiliated medical centers. Clindamycin was administered intravenously, (usually 900 mg every 8 hours), after which oral therapy was instituted. Primaquine (30 mg) was given orally to all patients except three; two of these patients received 15 mg of the drug daily and another 30 mg of drug on alternate days. In 11 of the episodes, the patients received clindamycin/primaquine as initial therapy for PCP because of previous intolerance of conventional therapy. In 13 of the episodes, conventional therapy had failed or the patients were unable to tolerate the regimen, while in four episodes conventional therapy failed and the patients were unable to tolerate their therapeutic regimens. Twenty-four (86%; 95% confidence interval, 73%-99%) of 28 episodes were successfully treated with clindamycin/primaquine. The most common adverse effect was the development of an erythematous rash. Clindamycin/primaquine appears to be an attractive alternative for patients in whom standard therapy for PCP has failed or cannot be tolerated.
Major limb amputations: an audit of indications in a suburban surgical practice.	Advancements in vascular and microsurgery in developed countries have led to fewer major limb amputations.
Outcome and prognostic factors in ovarian germ cell malignancies.	This study was undertaken to investigate the outcome and prognostic factors in patients with ovarian germ cell malignancies (OGCMs).
Prolonged survival following salvage surgery for chemorefractory ovarian immature teratoma: a case report and review of the literature.	Data regarding salvage surgery for ovarian immature teratoma (IT) are lacking despite its established role in the management of chemorefractory testicular germ cell tumors. In this report, a case of advanced IT that was salvaged by secondary cytoreduction following failure of both primary therapy and salvage chemotherapy is described, and the available literature is reviewed.
Successful treatment of chemo-refractory pulmonary metastases of renal pelvic cancer by second-line chemotherapy including gemcitabine followed by salvage surgery.	A 51-year-old woman developed multiple pulmonary metastases after receiving nephroureterectomy and two cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy for the treatment of renal pelvic transitional cell carcinoma. All metastases disappeared after four cycles of methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin and cisplatin (M-VAC) chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy; however, 8 months later two pulmonary metastases recurred. The patient was entered into a phase I study of combination chemotherapy with gemcitabine, etoposide and cisplatin, designed for chemorefractory urothelial cancer. The lung masses showed significant reduction after two cycles of this chemotherapy; following salvage surgery, the patient has been well with no evidence of recurrence for more than 3 years.
GEC/ESTRO-EAU recommendations on temporary brachytherapy using stepping sources for localised prostate cancer.	The aim of this paper is to present the GEC/ESTRO-EAU recommendations for template and transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) guided transperineal temporary interstitial prostate brachytherapy using a high dose rate iridium-192 stepping source and a remote afterloading technique. Experts in prostate brachytherapy developed these recommendations on behalf of the GEC/ESTRO and of the EAU. The paper has been approved by both GEC/ESTRO steering committee members and EAU committee members.
Limited efficacy of salvage radiotherapy for biopsy confirmed or clinically palpable local recurrence of prostate carcinoma after surgery.	To assess the efficacy of salvage radiotherapy (RT) for biopsy confirmed or clinically palpable local recurrence of prostate adenocarcinoma after radical prostatectomy (RP).
Results of whole-brain radiation as salvage of methotrexate failure for immunocompetent patients with primary CNS lymphoma.	This study evaluates the efficacy and toxicity of whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT) as salvage therapy for immunocompetent patients who failed initial high-dose methotrexate for primary CNS lymphoma (PCNSL).
Feasibility of salvage liver transplantation for patients with recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma.	Recurrence is the most frequent cause of treatment failure after hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) resection. Salvage liver transplantation is an alternative treatment for recurrent HCC. The transplantability for patients with recurrent HCC has not been well studied.
A case of recurrence and systemic metastasis of oral cancer successfully treated with combination chemotherapy of cisplatin and gemcitabine]	We report a case of recurrent and metastatic oral squamous cell carcinoma successfully treated with second-line combination chemotherapy of cisplatin and gemcitabine. A 62-year-old woman, who had previously been treated with surgery and chemoradiation, was referred to our department for systemic metastasis of oral cancer. She had received a combination regimen of cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil against locoregional recurrence. Systemic evaluation revealed metastasis to the lungs, liver and bones. Three cycles of a four-week regimen of combination chemotherapy including cisplatin and gemcitabine resulted in remarkable reduction of the pulmonary and liver metastatic tumors despite frequent neutropenia. Combination chemotherapy of gemcitabine and cisplatin was highly effective in this case, which recurred after a cisplatin-containing regimen. Gemcitabine seems promising and active for head and neck cancer treatment.
A patient with metastatic breast cancer associated with retention of pleural effusion with no response to both CMF and exemestane, whose life was saved by high-dose toremifene]	The patient was a 70-year-old woman, who became aware of a mass in her right breast in 2001, but left it untreated. On March 10, 2003, she visited a nearby doctor with the chief complaint of dyspnea. Since a large painful mass was palpable in the right breast, advanced right breast cancer was suspected, and the patient was referred to our department. Examination revealed the presence of right axillary lymph node metastasis, left pleural effusion, and left atelectasis, and the patient was admitted to our hospital on an emergency basis. Two cycles of CMF were begun on April 2, but CT indicated NC to PD. Therefore, exemestane (EXE, 25 mg/day), was administered on May 13. While the size of the primary lesion was partially decreased, the tumor marker levels were increasing markedly. Administration of EXE was therefore discontinued, and toremifene (TOR, 120 mg/day), was begun. The systemic condition began to improve one month after the start of TOR administration. Two months later, the primary lesion had decreased in size. At after 9 months of TOR treatment, the size of the primary lesion and the tumor marker levels continued to decrease, and both the left pleural effusion and the left atelectasis disappeared.
High-frequency oscillatory ventilation and adjunctive therapies: inhaled nitric oxide and prone positioning.	To review the use of high-frequency oscillatory ventilation (HFOV) with adjunctive therapies (inhaled nitric oxide [iNO] and prone positioning [PP]) in adult patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
Efficacy of weekly paclitaxel in patients with docetaxel-resistant metastatic breast cancer.	Partial cross-resistance to paclitaxel and docetaxel has been demonstrated in pre-clinical studies.
Operative salvage for locoregional recurrent colon cancer after curative resection: an analysis of 100 cases.	Locoregional recurrence after resection of colon carcinoma is an uncommon and difficult clinical problem. Outcome data to guide surgical management are limited. This investigation was undertaken to review our experience with surgical resection for patients with locoregional recurrence colon cancer, determine predictors of respectability, and define prognostic factors associated with survival.
Hematopoietic cell transplantation after nonmyeloablative conditioning for advanced chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Patients with chemotherapy-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have a short life expectancy. The aim of this study was to analyze the outcome of patients with advanced CLL when treated with nonmyeloablative conditioning and hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT).
Staging and prognostic factors in carcinoma of the base of the tongue.	During the period 1966-1985, 66 patients were submitted for curative treatment of a carcinoma of the base of the tongue in the Netherlands Cancer Institute. Treatment consisted of radiotherapy (59 patients), surgery and post-operative radiotherapy (4 patients) and surgery alone (3 patients). Patients were staged according to the UICC (1982) and UICC (1987)/AJCC (1988) criteria. Regrouping by the latter system caused enlargement of the N2-group and of stage IV. The crude 5-year survival was 22%, the 5-year tumour control was 36% and the locoregional control was 47%. The most important prognostic factors for the tumour-free interval are the T-category (P = 0.01) and stage grouping (UICC 1982) (P = 0.022). The same factors predict the locoregional control (P = 0.005 and 0.02 respectively). Crude survival is lower in smokers, and in patients in poor general condition (P = 0.04 and 0.007 respectively).
131-I-metaiodobenzylguanidine treatment in patients with refractory advanced neuroblastoma.	Fourteen patients with refractory advanced neuroblastoma were treated with 131-I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (131-I-MIBG); all had evidence of progressive disease or recurrent disease following combination chemotherapy. One patient without gross evidence of disease, following surgical resection of recurrent neuroblastoma before therapy with 131-I-MIBG, remains healthy without regrowth of tumor 3.5 years later. Two other patients had minor responses, and one had a mixed response. Two patients remain alive 1,212 and 1,926 days following the initial 131-I-MIBG treatment; the remaining 12 patients died of progressive disease. Moderate myelosuppression was the most notable toxicity observed; mild nausea and vomiting and transient mild liver enzyme elevation were also encountered. Treatment with 131-I-MIBG produced antineoplastic activity in patients with neuroblastoma and was well tolerated. To evaluate dose escalation, alternative dosage schedules, and alternative MIBG-radioconjugates, additional trials of radiolabeled MIBG are indicated.
Hyperfractionated radiation therapy and concurrent 5-fluorouracil, cisplatin and mitomycin-C in head and neck carcinoma. A pilot study.	Seventeen patients were entered into a Phase I/II trial of concurrent hyperfractionated radiation therapy (7,440 cGy total dose; 120 cGy b.i.d.) combined with constant infusion of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (1,000 mg/m2/24 hours for 72 hours) and cisplatin (DDP) (50 mg/m2) for a total of three cycles. Thirteen patients had Stage IV disease; three, Stage III disease; and one, Stage II hypopharyngeal disease. Thirteen of 17 patients had positive cervical lymph nodes, and the mean size of the largest lymph node was 5.5 x 5.1 cm. The patients were not treated with planned adjunctive surgery except for one patient who had a radical neck dissection for massive, rapidly growing cervical adenopathy, which recurred promptly within 1 month before the initiation of protocol therapy. After the initial six patients were entered, mitomycin-C (Mito 8 mg/m2) was added during the second cycle. All the patients completed the planned course of radiotherapy with a median dose of 7,440 cGy and a mean dose of 7,248 cGy except for two patients who died--one from toxicity and the other, suicide. The predominant toxicity was mucositis, which was grade 3/4 in 11 of 15 patients, resulting in an average interruption of radiation therapy of 12 days. Weight loss was significant and was on the average 12% of baseline weight. Hematological toxicity was mild in the 5-FU/DDP group (only one grade 3 toxicity of six) and severe in the 5-FU/DDP/Mito-treated patients (five of eight patients having grade 3/4 toxicity including one leukopenic pneumonitis death). Additional toxicity included one parapharyngeal cellulitis, which responded to antibiotics. Noncompliance with the complex regimen was only seen in three patients. One patient refused b.i.d. radiation therapy, and one patient refused further chemotherapy after the first cycle. Additionally, one patient who had a severe ethanol withdrawal reaction during the first cycle of 5-FU/DDP did not receive further chemotherapy. The complete response rate of both primary site and neck by the protocol regimen alone was 71%. However, two patients, one from each group, did undergo salvage neck dissection, and the locoregional control is currently 73%, with a mean follow-up time of 18.4 months. The feasibility of combining hyperfractionated radiation therapy with aggressive concurrent chemotherapy was demonstrated. The response and local control rate justifies the added toxicity of concurrent chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
A randomized controlled trial to evaluate antiretroviral salvage therapy guided by rules-based or phenotype-driven HIV-1 genotypic drug-resistance interpretation with or without concentration-controlled intervention: the Resistance and Dosage Adapted Regimens (RADAR) study.	It is not well defined whether concentration-controlled intervention (CCI) and rules-based human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) type 1 genotype drug-resistance interpretation (GI) or virtual phenotype drug-resistance interpretation (VPI) may improve the outcome of HIV salvage therapy.
Octreotide in liver cirrhosis: a salvage for variceal bleeding can be a gunshot for kidneys.	The renal effects of octreotide, used for bleeding esophageal varices in cirrhosis, are controversial.
Multicentre EORTC study 16997: feasibility and phase II trial of farnesyl transferase inhibitor & gemcitabine combination in salvage treatment of advanced urothelial tract cancers.	In this study, the feasibility and activity of combined chemotherapy of the farnesyl transferase inhibitor SCH66336 and gemcitabine was evaluated. This therapy was used as second-line treatment in patients with advanced urothelial tract cancer and the influence of SCH66336 exposure on the pharmacokinetics of gemcitabine was also determined. Patients who had received one previous chemotherapy regime for advanced urothelial cancer were treated with a combination of SCH66336 (150 mg in the morning and 100 mg in the evening) and Gemcitabine (1000 mg/m2 on day 1, 8 and 15 per 28-day cycle). Dosages of gemcitabine and its metabolite dFdU were performed on day one of cycle 1 before exposure to SCH66336 and day one of cycle 2. A total of 152 cycles were administered in 33 patients (median 3, range: 1-15). No patients had severe hematological toxicity, defined as Grade 4 thrombocytopenia or febrile neutropenia. Nine partial responses and one complete response were achieved in 31 assessable patients and corresponded to an overall response rate of 32.3% [95% CI:17%-51%]. There was no influence of exposure to SCH66336 on the level of gemcitabine or dFdU in 11 assessable patients. In conclusion, a combination of SCH66336 and gemcitabine is feasible in terms of toxicity and active as second-line treatment in patients with advanced urothelial tract cancer. SCH66336 had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of gemcitabine. Randomised trials should be undertaken to clarify the role of SCH66336 in combination with gemcitabine in cancer treatment.
Supracricoid partial laryngectomy with CHP and CHEP for local recurrence following irradiation of vocal cord carcinoma]	The cases of CHEP and CHP following supracricoid partial laryngectomy in the treatment of the local recurrence after irradiation of vocal cord carcinoma were reported. In both cases the wound was healed by first intention. The cannula was not removed in the patient after CHEP, although the wide of neolarynx and spirometry parameters showed such a possibility. That patient with a huge obesity developed progressive coronary disease after surgery. Sometimes he needs to open the plugged cannula. The spirometry parameters confirmed that the patient after CHP could be decannulationed in the third month after surgery. Because of his psychological resistance that was delayed to the sixth month. The deglutition is efficient in both patients. The oesophagus tube was removed in sixth and seventh weeks after the operation. The patient after CHEP was carried out the objective evaluation of deglutition in the videoroentgenokinematography which showed a small aspiration. In spite of that he didn't develop any pulmonary complication during 2.5 years after surgery. A few cases and short time of observation doesn't allowed us to draw the objective conclusions to the presented question.
IIVP salvage regimen induces high response rates in patients with relapsed lymphoma before autologous stem cell transplantation.	Patients with relapsed lymphoma can be cured with high-dose chemotherapy and autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). New therapeutic approaches with better cytoreductive capacity are needed for relapsed patients to keep their chance for cure with transplantation. We report 30 patients with relapsed lymphoma, median age 43 years, treated with IIVP salvage regimen consisting of ifosfamide, mesna, idarubicin, and etoposide for 2 or 3 cycles. Seventeen patients had non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and 13 patients had Hodgkin disease (HD). Fourteen (47%) patients were at their first relapse. Overall response rate was 86.6% (n = 26) with 19 patients (63.3%) achieving complete response. Overall response rate was 92% in patients with HD and 82% in NHL. The most frequent side effects observed were grade III-IV neutropenia (87%) and thrombocytopenia (73%). IIVP regimen is a highly effective salvage therapy for patients with relapsed HD or NHL who are candidates for autologous HSCT. Close follow up is necessary because of the high incidence of grade III-IV hematologic toxicity.
Current strategies for the treatment of diffuse large B cell lymphoma.	This paper reviews the improvement in the treatment of patients with diffuse large B cell lymphoma.
Immunological changes after highly active antiretroviral therapy with lopinavir-ritonavir in heavily pretreated HIV-infected children.	We evaluated the effect of salvage antiretroviral therapy with lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) on the immune system of heavily antiretroviral pretreated HIV-infected children. We carried out a longitudinal study in 20 antiretroviral experienced HIV-infected children to determine the changes in several immunological parameters (T cell subsets, thymic function) every 3 months during 18 months of follow-up on salvage therapy with LPV/r. Statistical analyses were performed with the Wilcoxon test, taking as a reference the basal value at the entry in the study. HIV-infected children showed an increase of CD4+ T cells, a decrease in CD8+ T cells, and an increase in T cell rearrangement excision circle (TRECs) levels. The percentage of HIV children with undetectable viral load (VL < or = 400 copies/ml) increased significantly (p = 0.007) and the percentage with SI viral phenotype decreased significantly (p = 0.002) at the end of the study. Thus, the viral phenotype changed to NSI/R5 after salvage therapy with LPV/r. Interestingly, we observed a significant decrease of memory (CD4+ CD45RO+) and a moderate decrease of activated (CD4+ HLA-DR+, CD4+ HLA-DR+CD38, CD4+, CD45RO+HLA-DR+) CD4+ T cells during the follow-up. On the other hand, memory (CD8+ CD45RO+ and CD8+ CD45RO+CD38+), activated (CD8+ HLA-DR+CD38+, CD8+ HLA-DR+, CD8+ CD38+), and effector (CD8+ CD57+, CD8+ CD28(-)CD57+) CD8+ T cells had a very significant decrease during follow-up. Our data indicate an immune system reconstitution in heavily pretreated HIV-infected children in response to salvage therapy with LPV/r as a consequence of a decrease in immune system activation and an increase in thymic function.
Primary operative versus nonoperative therapy for pediatric empyema: a meta-analysis.	The optimal treatment of children with empyema remains controversial. The purpose of this review was to compare reported results of nonoperative and primary operative therapy for the treatment of pediatric empyema.
Salvage chemotherapy with irinotecan and cisplatin in patients with metastatic gastric cancer failing both 5-fluorouracil and taxanes.	We conducted a phase II study to assess the efficacy and tolerability of irinotecan and cisplatin as salvage chemotherapy in patients with advanced gastric adenocarcinoma, progressing after both 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)- and taxane-containing regimen. Patients with measurable metastatic gastric cancer, progressive after previous chemotherapy that consisted either of a 5-FU-based regimen followed by second-line chemotherapy containing taxanes or a 5-FU and taxane combination were treated with irinotecan and cisplatin. Irinotecan 70 mg/m(2) was administered on day 1 and day 15; cisplatin 70 mg/m(2) was administered on day 1. Treatment was repeated every 4 weeks. For 28 patients registered, a total of 94 chemotherapy cycles were administered. The patients' median age was 51 years and 27 (96%) had an ECOG performance status of 1 or below. In an intent-to-treat analysis, seven patients (25%) achieved a partial response, which maintained for 6.3 months (95% confidence interval 6.2-6.4 months). The median progression-free and overall survival were 3.5 and 5.6 months, respectively. Major toxic effects included nausea, diarrhea and neurotoxicity. Although there was one possible treatment-related death, toxicity profiles were generally predictable and manageable. We conclude that irinotecan and cisplatin is an active combination for patients with metastatic gastric cancer in whom previous chemotherapy with 5-FU and taxanes has failed.
Surgical considerations for management of distal extremity soft tissue sarcomas.	This review focuses on the surgical management of soft tissue sarcomas of the hands and the feet. With recent advances in limb salvage surgery and radiotherapy delivery, local control of soft tissue sarcoma in the extremity has become optimized, and the associated functional results of this treatment have taken on extreme importance. Techniques to limit the amount of normal tissue resected and to reconstruct the resulting defects are critical to the final functional result.
Continuous low-dose GM-CSF as salvage therapy in refractory recurrent breast or female genital tract carcinoma.	Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF, sargramostim [Leukine]) is a powerful cytokine that is able to stimulate the generation of dendritic cells. Adjuvant treatment with continuous low-dose GM-CSF has been shown to prolong survival of stage III/IV melanoma patients. Data on continuous low-dose GM-CSF therapy in tumors other than prostate cancer are still lacking. This pilot trial was initiated in order to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of continuous low-dose GM-CSF as salvage in various chemotherapy-refractory carcinomas. A total of 19 patients who had failed a median of 4 prior chemotherapies were included. Their malignancies included metastatic breast cancer, recurrent ovarian carcinoma, metastatic endometrial carcinoma, and recurrent squamous cell cancer of the cervix uteri. Continuous low-dose GM-CSF was delivered subcutaneously at a daily starting dose of 125 microg. GM-CSF was increased at 25-microg increments until a maximum of 250 microg was reached or when mild leukocytosis (10-20 g/L) was achieved, providing that the relative eosinophil count did not exceed 15%. Therapy was continued until progression or refusal by the patient. Toxicity was generally mild. Only one patient was withdrawn due to grade 3 fatigue. In three additional patients, temporary dose reduction was necessary because of grade 1 injection site reactions, which recovered spontaneously. Mild to moderate leukocytosis was obvious in 10 patients. Systemic hypersensitivity-like reactions did not occur and no patient required hospitalization for other life-threatening side effects. The objective response rate was 37%: 1 complete and 6 partial responses, 4 disease stabilizations, 8 progression of disease. Median response duration was 6 months. Notably, 6 of 7 responders but only 1 of 8 patients with disease progression developed leukocytosis during therapy. Therefore, we conclude that continuous low-dose GM-CSF has substantial activity in heavily pretreated patients with either metastatic breast cancer or female genital tract cancer. Achievement of mild leukocytosis seems to be a predictor of response.
Chemoradiation therapy with or without salvage surgery for early squamous cell carcinoma of the hypopharynx.	Early squamous cell carcinoma of the hypopharynx is a rare clinical entity. Our objective was to analyze the outcome of patients with early hypopharyngeal cancer treated with curative radiotherapy or the combination of preoperative radiotherapy with surgery.
Effect of androgen suppression on hemoglobin in prostate cancer patients undergoing salvage radiotherapy plus 2-year buserelin acetate for rising PSA after surgery.	To examine the effect of 2-year androgen suppression (AS) on the pattern and extent of hemoglobin (Hb) change.
Early ipsilateral breast tumor recurrences after breast conservation affect survival: an analysis of the National Cancer Institute randomized trial.	To evaluate the effect of an ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (IBTR) after breast-conservation therapy (BCT) on survival.
Urgency of evaluation and outcome of acute ovarian torsion in pediatric patients.	To describe the symptoms, diagnostic studies, and rate of ovarian salvage among children and adolescents with ovarian torsion.
Major vascular lesions associated with orthopaedic injuries.	Seventeen patients, aged 11-67 years (mean, 32.6), with major vascular injuries associated with traumatic orthopaedic injuries, were treated operatively in the authors' institution over a 4-year period. The most common mechanism of trauma was a high-energy injury (70.8%), and the rate of open injuries was 88.2%; 64.9% of the injuries were located in the lower extremities. The treatment protocol consisted of aggressive resuscitation; Doppler imaging and, when necessary, angiography; stable bone fixation with subsequent vascular repair; and extended wound debridement. The vascular repair for arterial lacerations consisted of (a) end-to-end anastomosis (47.2%); (b) interpositional homologous vein graft (23.6%); (c) vascular decompression through fracture distraction in one patient (5.9%); (d) xenograft interposition (in one patient; 5.9%); (e) venous repair (in three patients; 17.7%); and (f) embolectomy (in all patients). Three vascular reoperations (17.7%) were necessary because of rupture of the anastomosis. The authors' preferred bone stabilization method was external fixation, which was used in 47.2% of cases. Amputation was performed in three cases (17.7%) as a salvage operation. Although six patients (35.4%) were admitted with delayed shock (mean duration, 73.6 +/- 27.8 min), this led to a lethal outcome due to shock lung in only one patient. Another patient developed massive lung embolism 3 months postoperatively and died. The authors believe that this well-organized approach, based on a specific treatment protocol, for patients with severe orthopaedic trauma and concomitant vascular injury, not only improves outcome but gives good to excellent functional results in the majority of patients.
Concomitant chemoradiotherapy with cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil and hydroxyurea in poor-prognosis head and neck cancer.	Based on encouraging results with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), hydroxyurea, and concomitant radiotherapy in patients with advanced or recurrent head and neck cancer, an attempt was made to modulate the regimen by the addition of cisplatin as a third active agent. A cohort of 26 patients with head and neck cancer of all histologies were entered into a broad phase I study investigating simultaneous radiation therapy, 5-FU (with or without leucovorin), HU, and infusional cisplatin administered on an alternate-week schedule. Eleven patients (group 1) had failed prior curative local therapy and 15 patients (group 2) were considered to have a poor prognosis with standard therapy. The median follow-up was 30 months. The response rate for all evaluable patients was 82% (14/17), and the complete response rate was 65% (11/17). Patients in group 1 demonstrated a high failure rate (9/11), while few group 2 patients failed after treatment (2/15). The median time to progression was 4.4 months in group 1 and has not been reached in group 2. Patients in group 1 failed locally (7/11), while no local failures were observed in group 2. Acute and cumulative hematologic toxicity was encountered at all dose levels and schedules tested and prevented escalation of the cisplatin dose beyond the desired level of 100 mg/m2 per months. Mucositis was a second significant toxicity in patients with head and neck cancer and was more pronounced during cycles containing leucovorin. A detailed analysis of survival, time to progression, and site of failure is presented.
High-dose salvage chemotherapy without bone marrow transplantation for adult patients with refractory Hodgkin's disease.	For patients with Hodgkin's disease (HD) who do not achieve complete response (CR), who experience a relapse within the first year of CR, and for those who have two or more relapses, the outcome is poor. Salvage chemotherapy regimens at conventional doses produce a CR rate that ranges from 10% to 50% and a 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) between 10% and 25%. On the other hand, high-dose chemotherapy regimens given in combination with bone marrow transplantation (BMT) produce a CR rate that ranges from 40% to 80% and a 3-year DFS of approximately 40%. We report the 5-year results of a prospective study in patients with refractory HD who were treated with three courses of intensive chemotherapy without BMT.
Allogeneic stem cell transplantation for patients with chronic myeloid leukemia and acute lymphocytic leukemia after Bcr-Abl kinase mutation-related imatinib failure.	Resistance to imatinib mesylate is an emerging problem in the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), often associated with point mutations in the Bcr-Abl kinase domain. Outcome of patients with such mutations after allogeneic stem cell transplantation (Allo-SCT) is unknown. Ten imatinib-resistant patients with Bcr-Abl kinase mutations received a transplant: 9 had CML (3 in chronic phase, 4 in accelerated phase, and 2 in blast phase) and 1 had Philadelphia-positive acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). Patients harbored 9 different protein kinase mutations (T315I mutation, n = 2). Preparative regimens were ablative (n = 7) and nonablative (n = 3). All patients engrafted; there were no treatment-related deaths. Disease response was complete molecular (CMR; n = 7), major molecular (n = 2), and no response (n = 1). Three patients (mutations Q252H, E255K, and T315I) died of relapse after Allo-SCT. Seven patients are alive (6 in CMR) for a median of 19 months. Allo-SCT remains an important salvage option for patients who develop resistance to imatinib through Bcr-Abl mutations.
Low-dose ARA-C and 1(OH) D3 administration in acute non lymphoid leukemia: pilot study.	Vitamin D3 metabolites have been shown to be able to induce monocytic differentiation both in vitro and in vivo. In this paper we report the preliminary results of an uncontrolled clinical trial where low doses of ARA-C and 1(OH)D3 were administered to patients affected by acute non lymphoid leukemia. The achievement of complete or partial remission was recorded. Morphological and cytochemical studies were performed in order to control the blastic populations under therapy. Immunocytochemical studies were also performed in some patients in order to detect the presence of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptors in the blast population. Seventeen percent reached complete remission and 45% reached only a partial remission.
Staged arthroplasty as salvage procedure for deep hip infection following intertrochanteric fracture.	Deep hip infection is a rare complication of intertrochanteric fractures and an optimal treatment has not yet been reported. Twenty-seven patients who contracted deep hip sepsis following the failed primary treatment of an intertrochanteric fracture were treated with two-stage hip arthroplasty. Antibiotic-impregnated cement beads were implanted following resection arthroplasty in the first 15 patients, and a temporary cement spacer prosthesis was used in the other 12 hips. There was only one recurrence of infection at an average follow-up of 4.8 years. Complications included non-union of the greater trochanter in four patients, intraoperative femoral fracture in two and fracture of the cement prosthesis in one. The use of an interim spacer was associated with better hip function in the interim period; a decreased operative time and less blood loss at the time of arthroplasty; and a higher hip score at final follow-up. Staged arthroplasty is an effective salvage procedure for deep hip infection after the failed treatment of an intertrochanteric fracture. The use of a temporary spacer maintains hip function between stages, makes arthroplasty less complicated, and improves the clinical outcome.
A phase II trial of weekly fractionated irinotecan and cisplatin for advanced gastric cancer.	This study was to evaluate the activity and the safety of a combination chemotherapy regimen of weekly fractionated irinotecan and cisplatin in advanced gastric cancer patients.
Tipranavir: a protease inhibitor for HIV salvage therapy.	To review the efficacy, safety, pharmacology, virology, pharmacokinetics, and resistance of the nonpeptidic protease inhibitor (PI) tipranavir.
Salvage treatment of histoplasmosis with posaconazole.	Six patients received salvage treatment with posaconazole oral suspension (800 mg/day in divided doses) for severe forms of histoplasmosis. One patient had pulmonary disease and 5 had disseminated disease. Previous antifungal therapy consisted of amphotericin B, itraconazole, fluconazole, or voriconazole. Posaconazole treatment duration for individual patients ranged from 6 weeks to 34 weeks. All patients had successful clinical outcomes with significant clinical improvements noted during the first month of therapy. Although the number of patients evaluated in this case series is small, the findings are encouraging and provide preliminary evidence that posaconazole may be a useful salvage treatment option for histoplasmosis involving a variety of infected tissues and organs.
A Phase III study to assess the clinical utility of low-dose fentanyl transdermal system in patients with chronic nonmalignant pain.	The transdermal fentanyl delivery system (fentanyl TTS; Duragesic) is currently widely available in patch strengths of 25, 50, 75, and 100 microg/h. However, a lower dose of 12 microg/h would allow optimal titration and fine tuning of the analgesic effect, and may be beneficial in certain patient populations such as the elderly or opioid-nave. A 12 microg/h fentanyl TTS patch has been developed, and the clinical efficacy and safety tested in this single-arm, non-randomized, open-label, multicenter, 28-day trial in opioid-exposed and -nave patients with moderate to severe pain for at least 6 months.
Glucocorticoid rescue for late-phase acute respiratory distress syndrome in trauma/surgical critical care patients.	High-dose glucocorticoid therapy (GCT) for the late fibroproliferative phase of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is controversial and has shown mixed results in medical patients. No studies have evaluated GCT in trauma/surgical critical care patients. The purpose of this study is to review the outcomes of trauma/surgical critical care patients with refractory ARDS treated with GCT. From January 2001 through September 2005, a pharmacy log was used to identify critically ill trauma/surgical patients in refractory ARDS (7 males and 2 females) who received GCT in an attempt to salvage them. GCT consisted of 200 mg intravenous methylprednisolone bolus for one dose and then 3 mg/kg per day divided every 6 hours for 6 weeks or until weaned off the ventilator. All patients as well as the survivors were analyzed. Outcome data was analyzed with SPSS (Chicago, IL) and the paired sample test. A P value < or = 0.05 was considered significant. Data is presented as mean +/- standard deviation. The Institutional Review Board approved this retrospective chart review. Seven patients (6 males and 1 female; age, 31 +/- 16 years) survived (78%), weaned off of the ventilator, and were discharged from the hospital. The 2 deaths were secondary to refractory respiratory failure as well as cardiac arrest (n = 1) and anoxic brain injury from septic hypotension (n = 1). In survivors (n = 7), hospital length of stay (LOS) and intensive care unit LOS was 71 +/- 30 days and 53 +/- 16 days, respectively. Duration of GCT administration was 17 +/- 6.4 days (range, 11-30 days). Ventilator time before GCT, during GCT, and after GCT was 22 +/- 8.4, 15 +/- 7.5, and 1.6 +/- 6.0 days, respectively. During GCT, 8 patients developed pneumonia, 5 had urinary tract infection, and 3 had bacteremia. All infections were effectively treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics, except in one patient who died of sepsis. PaO2/FIO2 ratio just before and after GCT was 100 +/- 36 and 247 +/- 56, respectively (n = 7; P < 0.001). Sequential organ failure assessment score just before and after GCT was 9.1 +/- 2.3 and 5.0 +/- 1.6, respectively (n = 7; P < 0.001). GCT rescue may have a role in salvaging critically ill trauma/surgical critical care patients in late-stage ARDS. More patients, however, need to be studied.
Salvage operation for persistent low back pain and sciatica induced by percutaneous laser disc decompression performed at outside institution: correlation of magnetic resonance imaging and intraoperative and pathological findings.	We identified several problems associated with percutaneous lumbar disc decompression (PLDD) based on a study of patients who required salvage operations for complications after undergoing PLDD at an outside institution.
Prognostic factors identified by Cox multivariate analysis of surgically treated 1018 laryngeal cancer patients]	To study the prognostic factors of 1018 patients with laryngeal cancer treated surgically.
Short-term outcomes of total hip arthroplasty after complications of open reduction internal fixation for hip fracture.	Failed open reduction internal fixation (ORIF) of the proximal femur can render patients severely disabled. This study analyzed the short-term functional results and complications of total hip arthroplasty (THA) for complications of ORIF after hip fracture. A retrospective arthroplasty database review identified 36 patients treated with a THA for complications of ORIF of the hip. These patients were matched to a cohort of 36 patients who underwent primary unilateral THA for osteoarthritis. Study results indicate that THA for failed ORIF of the hip is a successful procedure despite concerns of increased intraoperative difficulty and risk of fracture.
AngioJet Rheolytic thrombectomy during rescue PCI for failed thrombolysis: a single-center experience.	Previous studies have shown the efficacy of AngioJet Rheolytic Thrombectomy (RT) in reducing thrombus burden and improving coronary flow in acute myocardial infarction (MI). No study has specifically evaluated the use of AngioJet RT in patients undergoing rescue percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for failed thrombolysis, a setting that may be particularly beneficial given the extensive thrombus burden. The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of AngioJet RT during rescue PCI for failed thrombolysis.
Rescue percutaneous coronary intervention after failed thrombolysis: results from the Acute Coronary Syndrome Israel Surveys (ACSIS).	The benefit of rescue percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in acute myocardial infarction patients, who fail to show signs of reperfusion after full dose thrombolysis, is still an unresolved issue.
Salvage radiotherapy for isolated prostate specific antigen increase after radical prostatectomy: evaluation of prognostic factors and creation of a prognostic scoring system.	This study was performed to evaluate the results and prognostic factors associated with radiotherapy for a detectable serum prostate specific antigen level after radical prostatectomy.
Salvage extravesical ureteral reimplantation after failed endoscopic surgery for vesicoureteral reflux.	Open intravesical ureteral reimplantation has been reported to be uncomplicated following dextranomer/hyaluronic acid implantation. However, there are no known reports regarding extravesical ureteral reimplantation following dextranomer/hyaluronic acid failure. We reviewed our experience with extravesical ureteral reimplantation after dextranomer/hyaluronic acid failure.
Free fibula and corticocancellous bone grafting for salvage of a war-injured forearm.	The treatment of a complex forearm injury inflicted by a wartime mine explosion is presented in this study. Apart from the soft tissue damage, a 4-part fracture of the radius and loss of 19 cm of the ulnar diaphysis were present along with lesions of the median and ulnar nerves. The radial pulse was intact. The first formal treatment of the wounding consisted of extensive soft tissue and bone debridement and external fixation of radius with an additional intramedullary K-wire. After wound closure was obtained, a free vascular fibula grafting of the ulna and corticocancellous bone grafting of the radius were performed. Bone union of both the radius and ulna was subsequently achieved and 9 years after the injury, the patient has full flexion and extension of the elbow, full pronation and 70% of supination. Motion of the wrist is limited because of an ulnar plus variant of the distal radioulnar joint. Hand function is still limited by chronic low-moderate median nerve palsy, but the ulnar nerve has recovered completely. The patient is able to pinch, has full finger extension and can make a fist. He is satisfied that he made the correct decision in not having an initial amputation for his injury.
Intrathecal anti-CD20 antibody: an effective and safe treatment for leptomeningeal lymphoma.	A patient with relapsed B cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) infiltrating the Central nervous system (CNS) and resistant to chemotherapy was treated with intrathecal Rituximab (IT RTX), administered weekly for eight weeks at increasing doses, from 10 to 40 mg. After the second administration the patient showed significant clinical improvement and Cerebro spinal fluid (CSF) clearance of lymphomatous cells. A MRI scan performed after 30 days from the start of therapy showed full regression of lymphomatous infiltration. This report confirms the efficacy and safety of IT RTX in the treatment of CNS B-cell NHL.
Perineal salvage prostatectomy for radiation resistant prostate cancer.	No data are available on the use of perineal prostatectomy for salvage treatment of local recurrent prostate cancer after radiotherapy. Here we report on the clinical aspects and follow-up of salvage perineal prostatectomy.
Phase 2 trial of oral vorinostat (suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, SAHA) for refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL).	The activity and safety of the histone deacetylase inhibitor vorinostat (suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, SAHA) were evaluated in patients with refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL). Group 1 received vorinostat 400 mg daily, group 2 received vorinostat 300 mg twice daily for 3 days with 4 days rest, and group 3 received vorinostat 300 mg twice daily for 14 days with 7 days rest followed by 200 mg twice daily. Treatment continued until disease progression or intolerable toxicity. The primary objective was to determine the complete and partial response (PR) rate. Time to response (TTR), time to progressive disease (TTP), response duration (DOR), pruritus relief, and safety were determined. Thirty-three patients who had received a median of 5 prior therapies were enrolled. Eight patients achieved a PR, including 7 with advanced disease and 4 with Szary syndrome. The median TTR, DOR, and TTP for responders were 11.9, 15.1, and 30.2 weeks, respectively. Fourteen of 31 evaluable patients had pruritus relief. The most common drug-related AEs were fatigue, thrombocytopenia, diarrhea, and nausea. The most common grade 3 or 4 drug-related AEs were thrombocytopenia and dehydration. Vorinostat demonstrated activity in heavily pretreated patients with CTCL. The 400 mg daily regimen had the most favorable safety profile and is being further evaluated.
Oral vinorelbine/paclitaxel combination treatment of metastatic breast cancer: a phase I study.	Intravenous (i.v.) vinorelbine (VRL) generally given on days 1 and 8 of an every three-week cycle in combination with paclitaxel (PTX) is an effective option for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer (MBC). In an effort to improve both patient and chemotherapy unit convenience, oral VRL was used at equivalent doses of i.v. VRL.
Radiotherapy after subtotally resected or recurrent ganglioglioma.	Gangliogliomas can recur after subtotal resection (STR). The role of postoperative radiation therapy (RT) is undefined.
Carbon ion radiotherapy of skull base chondrosarcomas.	To evaluate the effectiveness and toxicity of carbon ion radiotherapy in chondrosarcomas of the skull base.
Intraoperative radiation therapy for recurrent head-and-neck cancer: the UCSF experience.	To review a single-institutional experience with the use of intraoperative radiation therapy (IORT) for recurrent head-and-neck cancer.
Differential expression of drug-resistance-related genes between sensitive and resistant blasts in acute myeloid leukemia.	Drug resistance constitutes a considerable problem in the therapy of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In order to identify genes which might be related to drug resistance, we retrospectively studied gene expression patterns in blast populations of 14 patients with de novo AML, focusing on known or potential resistance mechanisms against cytosine arabinoside and anthracyclines. Following induction and postremission chemotherapy, 7 patients achieved a complete remission (CR) for more than 1 year, while 7 patients showed blast persistence (BP) after induction and salvage chemotherapy. Gene expression analysis was performed using RNA extracted from archived guanidine extracts and Affymetrix HGU133A gene chips. We utilized the Gene Ontology category Biological Process to select genes implicated in DNA metabolism, nucleoside and nucleotide metabolism and transport, reactive oxygen species metabolism, apoptosis and response to drugs and identified 32 differentially expressed genes. From this functional perspective, we found differences between the CR and BP groups with regard to nucleotide metabolism (PBEF1, G6PD; p = 0.048), apoptosis (TNFAIP3, TNFAIP8, MPO, BCL2A1, BAX, SON, BNIP3L; p = 0.039) and reactive oxygen species metabolism (SOD2, KIAA0179; p = 0.048). However, the attempt to construct a predictive model of chemoresistance failed. BP samples had a 2-fold higher expression of CD34 than CR samples. Thus, our findings are in line with reports describing differences in apoptosis resistance between CD34+ and CD34- blast populations. Taken together, our results suggest that drug resistance in AML is a heterogenous phenomenon that might be better defined by means of disturbed biological processes than by focusing on the alteration of the expression of distinct genes.
The multicenter trial SAKK 37/95 of cladribine, cyclophosphamide and prednisone in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemias and low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.	A multicenter trial was performed to confirm the therapeutic efficacy and the toxicity profile of the combination of cladribine, cyclophosphamide and prednisone in low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Twenty-three adults with previously treated (61%) or untreated (39%) NHL International Working Formulation A or Binet B and C CLL were administered cladribine 0.1 mg/kg/day as a subcutaneous bolus for 5 days, intravenous cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 on day 1, and oral prednisone 40 mg/m2 on days 1-5, every 4 weeks. Unexpected early hematological toxicities led to dose modifications for pretreated patients who received cladribine for 3 days only up to a maximum of five courses. Responses were observed in 75%, with 7 patients obtaining a complete clinical and hematological response. Median duration of complete response was 9 months. Median time to progression or relapse was 31 months. Myelosuppression and infections were dose limiting whereas posttreatment complications, including fatalities, resulted from infections. Median overall survival time from trial entry was 60 months. Activity of the combination of cladribine, cyclophosphamide and prednisone was confirmed. However, in the specific setting of a multicenter trial, unexpected fatal infectious episodes occurred in pretreated patients. Great caution is thus required in these susceptible patients and the routine use of corticosteroids should probably be abandoned.
Histologic characteristics and tumor spread of recurrent glottic carcinoma: analysis on whole-organ sections and comparison with tumor spread of primary glottic carcinomas.	The assessment of the precise tumor extent of recurrent glottic carcinomas is a challenge.
Treatment of invasive aspergillosis with posaconazole in patients who are refractory to or intolerant of conventional therapy: an externally controlled trial.	Invasive aspergillosis is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients. Current treatments provide limited benefit. Posaconazole is an extended-spectrum triazole with in vitro and in vivo activity against Aspergillus species.
Bortezomib, melphalan, prednisone, and thalidomide for relapsed multiple myeloma.	In multiple myeloma (MM), the addition of thalidomide or bortezomib to the standard oral melphalan/prednisone combination significantly increased response rate and event-free survival. In this multicenter phase 1/2 trial, dosing, safety, and efficacy of the 4-drug combination, bortezomib, melphalan, prednisone, and thalidomide (VMPT) was determined. Bortezomib was administered at 3 dose levels (1.0 mg/m2, 1.3 mg/m2, or 1.6 mg/m2) on days 1, 4, 15, and 22; melphalan was given at a dose of 6 mg/m2 on days 1 through 5 and prednisone at 60 mg/m2 on days 1 through 5. Thalidomide was delivered at 50 mg on days 1 through 35. Each course was repeated every 35 days. The maximum tolerated dose of bortezomib was 1.3 mg/m2. Thirty patients with relapsed or refractory MM were enrolled; 20 patients (67%) achieved a partial response (PR) including 13 patients (43%) who achieved at least a very good PR. Among 14 patients who received VMPT as second-line treatment, the PR rate was 79% and the immunofixation-negative complete response rate 36%. The 1-year progression-free survival was 61%, and the 1-year survival from study entry was 84%. Grade 3 nonhematologic adverse events included infections (5 patients), fatigue (1), vasculitis (1), and peripheral neuropathy (2); no grade 4 toxicities were recorded. Initial results showed that VMPT is an effective salvage therapy with a very high proportion of responses. The incidence of neurotoxicities was unexpectedly low.
Hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy using intensity-modulated radiotherapy in patients with one or two brain metastases.	A small fraction of patients with 1-2 brain metastases will not be suitable candidates to either surgical resection or stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) due to either their location or their size. The objective of this study was to determine the local control, survival, patterns of relapse and the incidence of brain injury following a course of hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy while avoiding upfront whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) in this subgroup of patients.
Definitive chemoradiation in the management of locally advanced esophageal cancer.	A significant number of patients diagnosed with esophageal cancer will present with locally advanced disease. The appropriate management of these patients continues to be a matter of significant debate. Over the past 2 decades, concurrent chemoradiation has been widely recognized as a viable option for a majority of these patients. Although there have been no randomized trials comparing definitive chemoradiation with surgical resection, there is little doubt that nonoperative therapy offers comparative opportunity for cure with less intendent morbidity and mortality. The broad applicability of this treatment option has led investigators to study methods of maximizing the therapeutic gain associated with the combination of external beam radiation and systemic chemotherapy. The long-term survival results have compared favorably with surgical series, thus leading to clinical trials designed to define the role of surgery in future management strategies. The early evaluation of these recent trials fails to identify any significant advantage associated with the routine use of surgery for most patients. Recent advances in drug development in conjunction with the identification of specific molecular targets has provided new opportunities to improve on the outcomes achieved with standard chemoradiation combinations.
Treatment of advanced refractory lymphomas with a combination of carmustine, bleomycin, teniposide, dexamethasone, and cisplatin (the BBVDD regimen). An ECOG pilot study.	Forty-four patients with relapsed, refractory malignant lymphomas (12 Hodgkin's disease, 32 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma) were treated with a combination of carmustine, bleomycin, teniposide, dexamethasone, and cisplatin (BBVDD regimen). Patients had failed at least one, and frequently two, chemotherapy regimens before admission to the study. Of the patients with Hodgkin's disease, 2 (17%) achieved complete response (CR), and 3 (25%) attained a partial response (PR) for an overall response rate (CR + PR) of 42%. Among the patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma there were 6 CR (19%) and 12 PR (37%), for an overall response rate of 56%. Median durations of response ranged from 2.5 months for nodular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in PR to 28.5 + months for Hodgkin's disease in CR. In these heavily pretreated patients, the incidence of toxic effects was grade 3 (48%), grade 4 (23%), grade 5 (2%). The one death (grade 5 toxicity) was attributed to pulmonary impairment due to bleomycin. BBVDD is a moderately effective regimen for the palliation of patients with refractory lymphomas and merits further study.
Role of surgical salvage for regional recurrence in laryngeal cancer.	The aims of this study were to analyze the pattern of regional recurrence in laryngeal cancer, evaluate the role of surgical salvage, and identify factors affecting salvage outcome.
Etoposide, ifosfamide and methotrexate combination chemotherapy in patients with aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma after failure of the LNH 84 regimen.	We assessed the efficacy of an etoposide, ifosfamide and methotrexate combination therapy (VIM) in 24 patients failing the LNH 84 protocol. Eight of these patients were refractory to the LNH 84 induction regimen, 10 were partial responders and the six remaining attained complete response after LNH 84 induction but relapsed during consolidation therapy or after completing the whole programme. Twenty-three patients were evaluable for response. The VIM regimen provided a 43 per cent complete response rate and an additional 17 per cent partial response rate. The complete response rate was particularly high (67 per cent) in the group of patients who were partial responders to LNH 84 induction treatment. Of the 10 complete responders, five relapsed after 4 to 42 months and five are still alive with no evidence of disease after 27 to 60 months. Overall VIM was well tolerated. Myelotoxicity was the most common side-effect. Infections with fever were observed in 8 per cent of the VIM courses. This study demonstrates that a complete response and a long survival can be obtained in patients after failure of a high-dose doxorubicin containing front-line treatment.
Natural history of biochemical recurrence after radical prostatectomy: risk assessment for secondary therapy.	A persistently elevated or rising serum level of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) after radical prostatectomy is indicative of recurrent prostate cancer. The natural history of PSA-defined biochemical recurrence (BCR) is highly variable. While a rising PSA level universally antedates metastatic progression and prostate cancer-specific mortality (PCSM), it is not a surrogate for these endpoints. Thus, the management of patients with BCR is controversial.
High-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation for peripheral T-cell lymphoma: complete response at transplant predicts survival.	Although the role of high dose chemotherapy (HDT) and autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) in the treatment of aggressive lymphoma has been established in several large prospective studies, its effectiveness in patients with peripheral T cell lymphoma (PTCL) has not been defined. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of HDT and ASCT and prognostic factors for survival in patients with PTCL. We retrospectively analyzed the results of 40 PTCL patients treated with HDT and ASCT at Asan Medical Center between January 1995 and December 2005. Twenty patients had PTCL-U (peripheral T cell lymphoma, unspecified), 10 had extranodal natural killer/T cell lymphoma, 5 had anaplastic large cell lymphoma, 3 had angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma, 1 had hepatosplenic gammasigma T cell lymphoma, and 1 had disseminated mycosis fungoides. Disease status at transplant was complete response (CR)1 in 3 patients, CR2 or greater in 8, partial remission in 25, and refractory in 4. At a median follow-up of 16 months (range, 5 to 135 months) for surviving patients, the median overall survival (OS) was 11.5 months and the 1-year probability of survival was 46.1%. The median event free survival (EFS) was 3.6 months (95% confidence interval, 2.5 to 4.8 months). Ten patients (25%) remain alive without evidence of disease. The median OS of 11 patients with CR at ASCT was not reached; of these, 7 patients (63.6%) were alive with CR. In multivariate analysis, CR at ASCT was a prognostic factor for EFS (P = 0.025) and OS (P = 0.027) and normal lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) at ASCT was a prognostic factor for improved OS (P = 0.025). Chemosensitive patients with PTCL who achieved CR before ASCT seem to benefit from HDT and ASCT. Pretransplant values of LDH had potential to predict the survival.
Thalidomide-dexamethasone plus pegylated liposomal doxorubicin vs. thalidomide-dexamethasone: a case-matched study in advanced multiple myeloma.	Nearly all patients with multiple myeloma (MM) relapse or become refractory to front-line therapy. Several salvage therapies have been explored, but the optimal combination regimen has not been defined. We performed a case-matched study comparing patients with relapsed/refractory MM receiving thalidomide-dexamethasone alone or the combination thalidomide-dexamethasone-liposomal pegylated doxorubicin.
Salvage radiotherapy for biochemical relapse after complete PSA response following radical prostatectomy: outcome and prognostic factors for patients who have never received hormonal therapy.	To evaluate the results of salvage conformal radiation therapy (3DC-EBRT) for patients submitted to radical prostatectomy (RP) who have achieved complete PSA response and who have never been treated with hormonal therapy (HT).To present the results of biochemical control, a period free from hormonal therapy and factors related to its prognosis.
Temozolomide as salvage treatment in primary brain lymphomas.	Methotrexate (MTX)-based chemotherapy extends survival in patients with primary brain lymphomas, but it is not clear whether multiagent chemotherapy is superior to MTX alone. Treatment options for patients with recurrent primary brain lymphoma are limited; there is no standard second-line chemotherapy. New chemotherapeutic agents with clear activity in brain lymphoma are needed for treatment of recurrent disease. We report the results of a phase II trial assessing activity of the alkylating agent temozolomide in immunocompetent patients with recurrent primary brain lymphomas, previously treated with high-dose MTX-containing chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy. A median of two courses (range 1-12) of temozolomide 150 mg m-2 day-1, for 5 days every 4 weeks was administered to 36 patients yielding nine complete and two partial responses (response rate: 31%; 95% confidence interval 16-46%). One-year survival was 31% (95% confidence interval 16-46%). Toxicity was negligible. We conclude that temozolomide is active in recurrent primary brain lymphomas and should further be evaluated in this disease, perhaps in combination with MTX as initial treatment.
Unrelated donor haematopoietic cell transplantation after non-myeloablative conditioning for patients with high-risk multiple myeloma.	Allografting induces long-term molecular remissions and possibly cure in myeloma patients. The development of non-myeloablative conditionings has reduced the transplant-related mortality (TRM) associated with myeloablation and extended the eligible age for transplantation. Moreover, high response rates are reported especially when allografting is preceded by cytoreductive high-dose chemotherapy. We investigated the feasibility of unrelated donor non-myeloablative transplantation as either part of the initial treatment plan or as salvage treatment in heavily pretreated patients.
Local excision of rectal tumours by transanal endoscopic microsurgery.	Transanal endoscopic microsurgery (TEM) allows locally complete excision of rectal tumours and provides an alternative to conventional surgery for benign tumours. However, its role in the curative treatment of invasive carcinoma is controversial. The aim of this study was to determine the morbidity and long-term results for rectal tumours excised by TEM.
Efficacy of consolidation high-dose chemotherapy with ifosfamide, carboplatin and etoposide (HD-ICE) followed by autologous peripheral blood stem cell rescue in chemosensitive patients with metastatic soft tissue sarcomas.	Prognosis of patients with metastatic soft tissue sarcomas (MSTS) is poor even after response to doxorubicin-based chemotherapy. We report phase II data of high-dose chemotherapy and peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) rescue in patients with MSTS responding to AI-G chemotherapy.
Survival benefit for early hormone ablation in biochemically recurrent prostate cancer.	To determine whether early initiation of androgen ablation in patients with biochemically recurrent prostate cancer, but without clinically evident metastases, is associated with improved overall or disease-specific survival. To describe subgroups, based on PSA kinetics, which are most likely to benefit from early androgen ablation.
Osteotomy for salvage of the arthritic ankle.	Ankle arthrodesis continues to be the procedure of choice for ankle arthritis. Coester and colleagues showed that arthrodesis is a significant risk factor for development of arthritis in the ipsilateral hindfoot and forefoot, however. Total ankle arthroplasty has gained significant interest but is not yet ideally suited for younger active patients because of unacceptable failure rates and complications. Osteotomies can play an important role in re-establishing normal alignment and potentially decreasing the rate of progression of wear on the articular surfaces and decreasing pain, which may allow more time before arthrodesis or arthroplasty are needed. The success of total ankle arthroplasty depends largely on the alignment of the foot and ankle and osteotomies can be used in a staged manner as part of a reconstructive effort including total ankle arthroplasty. Supramalleolar osteotomies can be used to align the tibia; alternatively, osteotomies in the midfoot and hindfoot can be used to balance the foot and ankle making them suitable for arthroplasty in an individual who perhaps would not otherwise have that treatment option. Further studies will continue to clarify the role and indications for osteotomies for treatment of ankle arthritis.
Bortezomib is active in patients with untreated or relapsed Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia: a phase II study of the National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group.	To evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of single-agent bortezomib in Waldenstrm's macroglobulinemia (WM).
Phase II study of gemcitabine and oxaliplatin in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer: an Australian and New Zealand Gynaecological Oncology Group study.	Gemcitabine and oxaliplatin have shown single-agent activity in relapsed ovarian cancer. This combination was used to determine response rates, time-to-event efficacy measures, and toxicity in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer. Patients with prior platinum-based chemotherapy who had measurable lesions and/or elevated CA-125 levels were identified as group A (platinum-refractory/platinum-resistant patients) and group B (platinum-sensitive patients). All patients received gemcitabine 1000 mg/m(2) on days 1 and 8 and oxaliplatin 130 mg/m(2) on day 8 every 21 days for up to eight cycles. Seventy-five patients (21 in group A and 54 in group B), with a median age of 58 years (range, 37-78), were enrolled. A median of six cycles (range, 1-8) was administered. By intent-to-treat analysis, 15 patients with measurable disease achieved partial response for an overall best response rate of 20.0% (9.5% in group A and 24.1% in group B). CA-125 response was observed in 48.4% patients (30.0% in group A and 57.1% in group B). Median time to progressive disease was 7.1 months (95% CI, 5.6-9.0 months) with 5.0 months in group A and 8.3 months in group B. Median overall survival was 17.8 months (95% CI, 12.9-21.3 months) with 9.2 months for group A and 20.0 months for group B. Major grade 3/4 toxicities were neutropenia (61.3%), leukopenia (24.0%), nausea (16.0%), and vomiting (22.7%). We conclude that the combination of oxaliplatin and gemcitabine is active in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer, but the regimen is unsatisfactory for further study due to modest response and relatively high toxicity.
Timed-sequential chemotherapy as induction and/or consolidation regimen for younger adults with acute myelogenous leukemia.	Increasing the intensity of induction chemotherapy has generated considerable recent interest in the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia. Achieving complete remission is a sine qua non condition for prolonged disease-free survival and may affect long-term outcome. In this setting, administering a repeat course of induction shortly after completion of the first course, known as timed-sequential chemotherapy (TSC), has been tested and may lead to an improved long-term outcome. Whether these results are due to the biologic recruitment of cell cycle-specific agents is unknown. However, this strategy to intensify induction may lead to more profound myelosuppression and to potential toxicities. Here we review the results of timed-sequential chemotherapy, used as induction regimen in de novo, relapsed or refractory AML or used as post-remission therapy, and compare them with those from other types of regimens.
Yttrium-90-ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin) combined with high-dose BEAM chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation for chemo-refractory aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	To determine the safety and outcome following standard-dose ibritumomab tiuxetan followed by BEAM high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) in patients with chemo-refractory aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Treatment results of adjuvant radiotherapy and salvage radiotherapy after radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer.	The indications for and the efficacy of radiation therapy after radical operation for patients with prostate cancer are not clear. We analyzed the treatment results of adjuvant radiotherapy and salvage radiotherapy after radical prostatectomy.
The anatomical and pathological characteristics of irradiated prostate cancers may influence the oncological efficacy of salvage ablative therapies.	Recurrent or radioresistant prostate cancer occurs in approximately 30% of men receiving primary radiotherapy. For men who are candidates for local salvage therapy, the oncological efficacy of ablative therapies may be affected by the anatomical and pathological features of cancers within irradiated prostate glands. We characterized and mapped the prostate cancers in our series of whole mount salvage radical prostatectomy specimens.
Irinotecan plus weekly 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin as salvage treatment for patients with metastatic colorectal cancer: a phase II trial.	A phase II study was conducted to evaluate the toxicity and efficacy of irinotecan/5-fluorouracil/leucovorin (CPT-11/5-FU/LV (AIO schedule)) as salvage treatment in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
Introduction of rituximab in front-line and salvage therapies has improved outcome of advanced-stage follicular lymphoma patients.	It is unclear whether new treatment modalities have improved the survival of follicular lymphoma patients. Some data show that there has been no improvement in survival in the last 3 decades of the 20th century, whereas the results of recent retrospective studies suggest that evolving therapy has improved the outcome for follicular lymphoma patients.
PEG "Rescue": a practical NOTES technique.	Dislodged percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tubes occur commonly and may require urgent surgical intervention in a susceptible patient population. Natural orifice translumenal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) may facilitate PEG rescue and avoid the morbidity associated with contemporary surgical techniques. We report a case of a dislodged PEG tube in the early post-operative period with evidence of incomplete gastrocutaneous tract formation and intra-abdominal leakage. Bedside transgastric NOTES exploration facilitated peritoneoscopy, evacuation of intra-abdominal fluid, and re-establishment of the PEG tube through the original gastrotomy tract. Tube feeds were resumed and postoperative contrast fluoroscopy demonstrated no intra-abdominal leakage from the replaced PEG tube. No postoperative complications related to the NOTES procedure were noted at 30 days of follow-up. PEG rescue represents a unique, practical, and empowering application of the burgeoning experience of NOTES.
Salvage therapy for Chinese non-small cell lung cancer patients who failed previous chemotherapy.	Our aim was to determine the appropriate salvage regimen for Chinese non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients who failed previous chemotherapy. We retrospectively analyzed data from our seven clinical trials, including single-agent gemcitabine, gefitinib, docetaxel with a different schedule, vinorelbine plus cisplatin, vinorelbine plus gemcitabine, docetaxel plus gemcitabine, and docetaxel plus ifosfamide, with a total of 342 cases (including 314 patients, of which 28 entered two different trials due to different salvage line settings), and compared these data with those of other studies, addressing the efficacy and toxicity of salvage therapy in patients who failed previous chemotherapy to analyze choosing of an appropriate salvage regimen. Of the 342 cases receiving salvage treatment, 71.1% were in second-line treatment, and 28.9% in third-line or later treatment. The response rate to our salvage therapy ranged widely, from 6.1% to 36.1%. Median survival was between 5.7 and 8.4 months when different salvage chemotherapy regimens were used, whereas it was 9.3 months in those who received gefitinib treatment. Similarly, 1-year survival ranged between 19.7% and 40% in a chemotherapy setting, and 40.8% for gefitinib treatment. Those who received gefitinib had better toxicity profiles than those who received other regimens. Febrile neutropenia occurred in 19 patients who received a chemotherapy agent (6.2%), and four patients died despite granulocyte colony-stimulating factor and antibiotic treatment. Grade 3 or 4 interstitial pneumonitis occurred in 14 of 247 patients (5.7%) who received docetaxel with/without another agent, and 10 patients died. Grade 3 interstitial pneumonitis occurred in one patient who received gefitinib treatment and recovered. In conclusion, both chemotherapeutic agents, such as docetaxel alone or gemcitabine plus vinorelbine, and gefitinib, are probably appropriate salvage regimens for Chinese NSCLC patients who have failed previous chemotherapy. However, gefitinib has a better safety profile and probably better survival than the chemotherapeutic agents and would be an appropriate alternative choice for salvage chemotherapy, even in a second-line setting for Chinese patients.
Salvage therapy in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer.	Patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer continue to have a poor prognosis; most die from the disease within 1 year. Chemotherapy is beneficial for some patients in the first-line metastatic setting. Three agents, namely docetaxel, pemetrexed, and erlotinib, are approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration as treatment in the second-line setting. In this article, we examine the data supporting the use of these agents in the second-line setting and review data from other completed trials. Lastly, we propose strategies to advance the treatment of patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Emergence of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 variants containing the Q151M complex in children receiving long-term antiretroviral chemotherapy.	We examined 28 children with HIV-1 infection who were not responding to existing antiviral regimens and were enrolled into clinical trials conducted at the National Cancer Institute to receive salvage therapy. In 3 of the 28 patients (10.7%), the Q151M complex amino acid substitutions were identified. The three patients had received nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) monotherapy and/or combination regimens with multiple NRTIs for 4.3-8.6 years prior to the study. Recombinant infectious clones generated by incorporating the RT-encoding region of HIV-1 isolated from patients' plasma samples were highly resistant to zidovudine, didanosine and stavudine, while they were moderately resistant to lamivudine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF). TDF-containing regimens reduced HIV-1 viremia in two of the three children carrying the Q151M complex. These data suggest that the Q151M could be prevalent in pediatric patients with long-term NRTI monotherapy and/or dual NRTI regimens and that HAART regimens containing TDF may be meritorious in such patients.
All advanced stage non-Hodgkin's lymphomas with a polymerase chain reaction amplifiable breakpoint of bcl-2 have residual cells containing the bcl-2 rearrangement at evaluation and after treatment.	Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of bcl-2 provides an extremely sensitive method to detect minimal disease in approximately 50% of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL). In an attempt to determine the clinical usefulness of this technique, we examined the bone marrow (BM) of 152 patients with advanced-stage NHL at the time of evaluation and after induction or salvage chemotherapy before autologous BM transplantation. The BM proved to be an accessible and reproducible tissue source to determine PCR positivity because all of the 102 patients examined had the same PCR-amplifiable breakpoint in their BM and lymph node. At the time of evaluation, PCR analysis in advanced-stage NHL patients added little additional information to morphologic analysis because each technique identified BM infiltration in approximately 70% of patients. PCR was significantly more useful in determining BM infiltration after induction or salvage therapy. At that time, approximately 50% of patients had morphologically normal BM, whereas PCR analysis remained positive in 100% of those with an amplifiable breakpoint. These observations were confirmed in a clinical trial attempting to induce remission in previously untreated low-grade advanced-stage NHL patients. In this series, PCR was positive in all patients after treatment although the BM was histologically uninvolved in 50% of cases, showing that conventional therapy did not eradicate bcl-2-positive cells.
Cyclophosphamide "metronomic" chemotherapy for palliative treatment of a young patient with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer.	Evaluation of the clinical efficacy and tolerance of metronomic chemotherapy as salvage therapy in a young patient with advanced, platinum resistant, ovarian carcinoma and bad performance status.
IMVP-16 followed by high dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation as salvage treatment for malignant lymphoma.	Thirty patients with high-grade malignant lymphoma were treated with ifosfamide-VP16213-methotrexate (IMVP-16) combination chemotherapy after failing to respond completely or after relapsing on CHOP-like therapy. Responders to the salvage therapy subsequently were treated with ablative chemotherapy (BCNU, VP16213, Ara-C and melphalan) and autografted. Of these 30 patients 11 were in relapse, 11 were partial responders and eight failed CHOP-like therapy. There were eight complete remissions and 12 partial responses to IMVP-16. These 20 patients were transplanted, together with one nonresponder. Ten of these 21 patients are disease-free survivors 16 to 76 months (median 32) after autografting. There were three treatment-related deaths: one before and two during the autografting procedure. Using one of the best salvage therapy combinations followed by high dose chemotherapy and autografting is feasible. The results of this study suggest that an appreciable number of patients may be cured by this procedure.
VIM3-ARA C: an effective salvage regimen in refractory or recurrent aggressive non Hodgkin's lymphoma. A report on 18 cases.	Based on encouraging results of previous combination regimens, we used a combination of VM26, ifosfamide, methyl GAG, mitoxantrone (or adriamycin), high-dose (HD) methotrexate and HD Ara C to treat 18 patients with relapsed or refractory NHL. Front-line therapy had been in most of them a reinforced CHOP regimen. Twelve patients (67 per cent) responded: there were nine (50 per cent) partial responses (PR) and three (17 per cent) complete remissions (CR). Nine of these 12 responders were grafted (eight autologous, one allogeneic transplants), one relapsed before autograft could be performed and the two remaining patients were excluded from autograft because of positive bone marrow. Five of nine patients remained free of disease after 11+ to 27+ months. Response rate was higher in patients who relapsed 'off' therapy (2/3), but CR was also obtained in two refractory NHL and persisted for 11+ and 26+ months, suggesting that VIM3-ARA C was, at least partially, non-cross-resistant with front-line adriamycin-containing regimens.
Ifosfamide in the treatment of high-grade recurrent non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.	We report the results of two phase II trials of ifosfamide in very high risk patients with either partially responsive or recurrent non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. In the first study, in which patients were extremely heavily pretreated (50 per cent had received a very intensive salvage regimen containing very high dose cyclophosphamide), there were two complete responses, two partial responses and one objective (minimal) response among 14 patients treated. Toxicity was acceptable even in this end-stage patient group. We concluded that ifosfamide is an active agent even in patients with tumours resistant to cyclophosphamide. The second trial was a pilot study in 13 patients of a regimen incorporating VP16, ifosfamide/mesna, and high dose ara-C (VIPA). There were four complete responses, five partial responses and two objective responses. Two patients died in complete remission from toxic complications, while a third, with a stably regressed mediastinal mass died after completion of the protocol. While very toxic, we considered that this regimen was highly effective, and have since incorporated a slightly less intensive combination of the same drugs into the primary therapy of high risk patients. Since the primary toxicity of the VIPA combination was myelosuppression, the use of a modified protocol incorporating colony stimulating factors to ameliorate the side-effects and possibly increase dose rate is worthy of further exploration in patients with recurrent B cell tumours.
Is local excision and chemoradiation an acceptable alternative in the treatment of early rectal cancer?	Local excision has a limited but important role in the modern management of patients with rectal tumors. The main criticism of the local treatment of early rectal cancer (T1N0M0 or T2N0M0) is the neglect of any potential metastatic mesorectal lymph nodes. This article presents the combined experience of several trials and indicates that neoadjuvant preoperative or adjuvant postoperative treatment may reduce the risk of local recurrence in a selected group of patients, and local excision results in overall survival comparable to the most aggressive treatment. Although the hypothetical improvement in morbidity and quality of life with local excision has not been demonstrated, the advantages of the local excision vs. radical surgery in the oncologic results seem obvious and require prospective randomized studies comparing both types of treatment.
Dexamethasone, cyclophosphamide, etoposide and cisplatin (DCEP) for relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma patients.	The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy and toxicity of DCEP (dexamethasone, cyclophosphamide, etoposide, cisplatin), as third-line regimen in relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (MM) patients.
Successful treatment of S-1 + CDDP followed by salvage EMR for a case with metastatic Barrett's esophageal cancer.	A 62-year-old woman with Barrett's esophageal cancer was hospitalized. Abdominal CT confirmed metastases to the liver and lymph nodes, for which surgical excision and radiotherapy were not indicated. We started chemotherapy with a course of daily oral S-1 at a dose of 80 mg/m(2) for 21 days, with a 2-hour drip of cisplatin at 60 mg/m(2) on day 8. Breaks of 14 drug-free days were given between courses. After two courses, a repeat CT confirmed that the liver and lymph node metastases had disappeared; after three courses, another CT confirmed that the metastatic foci were still absent, so we judged the disease to be in complete remission. Endoscopy and upper GI series confirmed that the primary tumor was reduced, and endoscopic mucosal resection performed using the strip biopsy method. The excision specimen was well differentiated adenocarcinoma, and mucosal invasion, and the excision stump was negative. After two more courses of S-1 + cisplatin, chemotherapy has been suspended with the patient's consent, and in the 21 months after endoscopic mucosal resection, no recurrence has been observed. This is a rare case of metastatic Barrett's esophageal cancer in which the metastases were eradicated by S-1 + cisplatin, and the primary tumor successfully excised by endoscopic mucosal resection after downstaging.
Recognizing hyperviscosity syndrome in patients with Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia.	Hyperviscosity syndrome can develop in patients with plasma cell dyscrasias, particularly Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (WM). Occurring in 10%-30% of patients with hyperviscosity syndrome, WM is an uncommon B-cell proliferative disorder characterized by bone marrow infiltration and production of monoclonal immunoglobulin M. The elevated blood viscosity in WM is the result of increased circulating serum immunoglobulin M. Because hyperviscosity syndrome can be lethal, it must be recognized and managed early. Hyperviscosity syndrome has a triad presentation: vision changes, neurologic abnormalities, and bleeding. Treatment includes hydration with diuresis, plasmapheresis, and control of the underlying disease. The current treatment for WM is chemotherapy (i.e., alkylating agents and nucleoside analogs) and the monoclonal antibody rituximab. Although hyperviscosity syndrome is not one of the most common conditions, when it does occur, oncology nurses play a critical role in patients' assessment and care.
Combination therapy with low-dose cyclosporin A, azathiopurine, and prednisolone for a child with refractory chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura]	We report on a boy with refractory chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) successfully treated with combination therapy composed of low-dose cyclosporin A (CsA), azathiopurine, and prednisolone. The patient was diagnosed as having ITP at 5 years of age, and received high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), followed by oral prednisolone, intravenous pulsed dexamethasone, oral cepharantin, and intermittent IVIG therapies. Because there were no or only transient responses to these medical therapies over 2 years, he was splenectomized. However, 3 months after the splenectomy, his platelet counts fell to below 10 x 10(3)/microl accompanied by wet purpura. We resumed low-dose intermittent IVIG treatment for 1 year without sustained efficacy. We then started combination therapy with CsA (2.5 mg/kg/day), azathiopurine (1.7 mg/kg/day), and prednisolone (0.8 mg/kg/day). Complete remission was achieved within 2 weeks and the platelet counts remained > 50 x 10(3)/microl even after tapering off the prednisolone and azathiopurine at 6 and 12 months, respectively and have moreover remained normal for more than 10 months after completion of 2 years of CsA treatment. There were no adverse events during the therapeutic course. This is the first pediatric case of ITP treated with CsA in Japan. Such combination therapy may be promising and tolerable for childhood ITP with splenectomy failure.
Bevacizumab in combination with oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and leucovorin (FOLFOX4) for previously treated metastatic colorectal cancer: results from the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Study E3200.	Colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer mortality in the United States. Antiangiogenic therapy with bevacizumab combined with chemotherapy improves survival in previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer. This study was conducted to determine the effect of bevacizumab (at 10 mg/kg) on survival duration for oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in patients with previously treated metastatic colorectal cancer.
Gemcitabine, cisplatin and methylprednisolone (GEM-P) with or without Rituximab in relapsed and refractory patients with diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL).	This is the first report of the combination of gemcitabine, cisplatin and methylprednisolone (GEM-P) with Rituximab (GEM-PR) for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Thirty-nine patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL in this study received GEM-P with (n = 24) or without Rituximab (n = 15) 64% patients had Stage III/IV disease. The overall response rate (ORR) was 59% (95% CI 42.1-74.4); 11/39 (28%) patients attained complete response. Patients received a median of two cycles (1-4) of treatment. For GEM-PR group, the ORR was 67% (95% CI 45-84%) compared to 47% (95% CI 21-73%) in GEM-P alone. one-year progression-free survival was 51% (95% CI 28-69%) in GEM-PR group compared to 27% (95% CI 8-49%) in GEM-P alone (P = 0.04). GEM-P is an effective second-line regimen in patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL and the addition of Rituximab appears to further improve outcomes.
Locally ablative therapies for primary radiation failures: a review and critical assessment of the efficacy.	A significant number of men with prostate cancer will experience biochemical failure following treatment with primary radiation therapy. For patients with biopsy-proven recurrent cancer confined to the prostate, local salvage therapy may be a potentially curative treatment option. Most men, however, do not undergo local salvage therapy owing to difficulties in diagnosis as well as concerns over treatment-related complications in the salvage setting. Recently, improvements in technique and technology have substantially reduced the morbidity associated with locally ablative therapies, resulting in an increased interest in the use of minimally invasive therapies such as brachytherapy, cryotherapy, and high-intensity focused ultrasound in the salvage setting. Although these treatments are well tolerated, concerns remain over incomplete and inadequate treatment with locally ablative therapies. Future studies are required to appropriately select candidates for salvage ablative therapies and to determine the long-term oncologic efficacy of these treatments.
The spectrum of prostate cancer care: from curative intent to palliation.	Prostate cancer is one of the most prevalent malignancies affecting men in the developed world. A spectrum of disease states exists and management is tailored to individual patients. Increasing public awareness and prostate-specific antigen testing have led to earlier detection and the possibility of cure but have increased the risk of overtreatment of indolent disease. Advances in curative modalities have reduced side effects and offer patients a choice of treatments. Nonetheless, many need no intervention and may be safely treated with active monitoring. Choice and timing of therapy for locally advanced and recurrent disease are variable, with potential benefits of early intervention counterbalanced by side effects of treatment. Progress has been made in the management of advanced disease; skeletal-related events have been reduced and survival has been increased. This review examines the evidence and rationale behind the treatment options from curative intent to management of locally advanced disease and palliation of metastatic disease.
Inhibitory quotient as a prognostic factor of response to a salvage antiretroviral therapy containing ritonavir-boosted saquinavir. The CIVSA Study.	The addition of a low dose of ritonavir to protease inhibitors (PIs) has become a widespread strategy to improve PI pharmacokinetics. As resistance is a major barrier to long-term suppression, in salvage therapy genotype and/or phenotype scoring is currently used to predict the response. We evaluated the relationship between the saquinavir (SQV) inhibitory quotient (IQ) (virtual and genotypic) and virological response.
Posaconazole salvage therapy allows successful allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in patients with refractory invasive mold infections.	We describe the clinical courses of 3 patients with hematologic malignancies (2 with acute myelogenous leukemia and 1 with multiple myeloma) who developed invasive fungal infections due to uncommon molds (Alternaria spp., Paecilomyces lilacinus, and Zygomycetes). Breakthrough invasive fungal infections of the sinus (n=1), lung (n=3), and pericardium (n=1) developed despite fluconazole prophylaxis and failed to respond to treatment with other licensed antifungal therapies, including amphotericin B (n=3), caspofungin (n=2), and voriconazole (n=3), and surgical intervention (n=2). Salvage therapy with posaconazole oral suspension resulted in successful outcomes in all 3 patients, who subsequently underwent allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) while on continued posaconazole therapy. The median duration of posaconazole treatment before HSCT was 5 months (range: 1.5-6 months). Posaconazole salvage therapy allowed successful allogeneic HSCT in 3 patients with refractory invasive mold infections.
Free tissue transfer to manage salvage laryngectomy defects after organ preservation failure.	Salvage laryngectomy to treat organ preservation failures results in significantly higher local wound complications. Even in the absence of extralaryngeal disease, primary closure of laryngeal defects can result in protracted wound care problems. We hypothesize that even when sufficient mucosa is present to close the defect primarily, introduction of vascularized tissue to close the defect may improve outcomes.
Minimally invasive endoscopic nasopharyngectomy in the treatment of recurrent T1-2a nasopharyngeal carcinoma.	To study the efficacy of endoscopic nasopharyngectomy in salvaging recurrent T1 to 2a nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC).
Tibiotalocalcaneal arthrodesis with a compressive retrograde intramedullary nail: a report of 34 consecutive patients.	Tibiotalocalcaneal arthrodesis is a treatment modality for severe arthrosis and malalignment of the hindfoot. Complications, such as delayed union and nonunion, are well-known risks of the procedure. Arthrodesis can be done with a plate, screws, an external fixator, or an intramedullary nail. Compression with an intramedullary nail was the focus of this report.
Intraoperative cell salvage during radical cystectomy does not affect long-term survival.	To evaluate the risk of long-term recurrence for patients who received cell-salvaged blood during radical cystectomy (RC).
Respiratory controversies in the critical care setting. Does high-frequency ventilation offer benefits over conventional ventilation in adult patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome?	High-frequency ventilation is the application of mechanical ventilation with a respiratory rate > 100 breaths/min. High-frequency oscillatory ventilation (HFOV) is the form of high-frequency ventilation most widely used in adult critical care. The principles of lung-protective ventilation have matured in parallel with the technology for HFOV. The 2 basic principles of lung-protective ventilation are the use of small tidal volume and maintenance of adequate alveolar recruitment. Research in animal models and humans demonstrate that HFOV can support gas exchange with much smaller tidal volume than can be achieved with conventional ventilation. HFOV also provides more effective lung recruitment than conventional mechanical ventilation. However, at present, evidence is lacking that survival in adults with acute respiratory distress syndrome is improved by HFOV. Although HFOV may improve P(aO(2)) in some patients, this improvement is often transitory. Available evidence does not support that pulmonary inflammation is reduced with HFOV in adult acute respiratory distress syndrome. Heavy sedation and often paralysis are necessary. The promise of HFOV as a lung-protective ventilation strategy remains attractive, but additional clinical trials are needed to determine whether this approach is superior to lung-protective ventilation with conventional mechanical ventilation.
Bortezomib in combination with dexamethasone for patients with relapsed Hodgkin's lymphoma: results of a prematurely closed phase II study (NCT00148018).	We conducted a two-stage phase II study to investigate the activity of bortezomib and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed Hodgkin's lymphoma. The study was prematurely closed after the first stage with twelve enrolled patients because no response was observed. A meta-analysis of all four available studies evaluating bortezomib in this population showed no activity of bortezomib (combined response rate: 0.03; 95%-CI: 0.01 to 0.12).
Long-term outcomes after reduced-intensity conditioning allogeneic stem cell transplantation for low-grade lymphoma: a survey by the French Society of Bone Marrow Graft Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (SFGM-TC).	High-dose chemotherapy with allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) has proven to be a successful treatment for low-grade lymphoma (LGL), but is associated with considerable transplant-related mortality (TRM). In an effort to reduce toxic mortality while maintaining the graft-versus-leukemia effect, allogeneic SCT has been combined with a reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) regimen. The aim of this study was to determine the outcome of patients with LGL treated with RIC allogeneic SCT.
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin in the treatment of primary cutaneous T-cell lymphomas.	Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (Peg-Doxo) is a promising drug for advanced/recalcitrant primary cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCLs). This prospective phase II trial enrolled 19 patients. We observed overall and complete response rates of 84.2% and 42.1% (with no significant differences between stage I-IIA and IIB-IV patients), and 11% grade III/IV toxicity. After a maximum 46 month-follow-up, median overall (OS), event-free (EFS) and progression-free (PFS) survival were 34, 18 and 19 months. OS, EFS and PFS rates at 46 months were 44%, 30% and 37% respectively. Peg-Doxo seems to be an active and safe principle that should be used in plurirelapsed, early stage-MF and in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents in advanced and aggressive CTCLs.
Therapeutic potential of arsenic trioxide with or without interferon-alpha for relapsed/refractory adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma.	Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) with or without interferon-a (IFN) was given to 4 patients with relapsed/refractory adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL). Treatment with As2O3 and IFN showed an encouraging response in two moderately-aggressive ATLL patients, while As2O3 alone was ineffective in two patients with very aggressive and rapidly progressing ATLL. Further studies are needed to clarify the role of As2O3 and its usefulness when combined with IFN for the treatment of ATLL.
What is the best option to cure patients with resistant/relapsing Hodgkin's disease?	Nearly 80% of patients with Hodgkin's disease (HD) are cured with chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy. However, in patients with primary refractory or relapsed disease, high-dose therapy (HDT) and autologous or peripheral-blood stem-cell transplantation (ASCT or PBSCT) represents the best curative option. Several prognostic factors to identify patients at high risk for relapse or progression have been analyzed. However, in almost all analyzed series, disease status before high-dose chemotherapy with PBSC support remains the most important factor predicting the outcome of these patients. Nonetheless, the benefit of cytoreduction before HDT has yet to be fully determined and efforts to identify the best active regimen, combining therapeutic activity and CD34+ stem-cell mobilizing potential, represent a challenging issue for these patients. Furthermore new approaches like myeloablative and non-myeloablative allogeneic transplants have been assessed to improve long-term in such patients. In this review we analyzed the results of the most important salvage chemotherapy combinations as well as allogeneic transplantations to clarify the optimal treatment options for patients with resistant/relapsing HD.
High efficacy of erlotinib in Taiwanese NSCLC patients in an expanded access program study previously treated with chemotherapy.	Erlotinib is the first epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) which has demonstrated a survival benefit in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. An open label phase II study was conducted in Taiwanese patients with NSCLC to evaluate its efficacy.
Seven-year median time to progression with thalidomide for smoldering myeloma: partial response identifies subset requiring earlier salvage therapy for symptomatic disease.	Smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM) is usually followed expectantly without therapy. We conducted a phase 2 trial in 76 eligible patients with SMM, combining thalidomide (THAL, 200 mg/d) with monthly pamidronate. In the first 2 years, THAL dose reduction was required in 86% and drug was discontinued in 50%. Within 4 years, 63% improved, including 25% qualifying for partial response (PR); by then, 34 patients had progressed and 17 required salvage therapy. Unexpectedly, attaining PR status was associated with a shorter time to salvage therapy for disease progression (P < .001), perhaps reflecting greater drug sensitivity of more aggressive disease. Low beta-2-microglobulin levels less than 2 mg/L were independently associated with superior overall and event-free survival. Four-year survival and event-free survival estimates of 91% and 60%, respectively, together with a median postsalvage therapy survival of more than 5 years justify the conduct of a prospective randomized clinical trial to determine the clinical value of preemptive therapy in SMM. Trial registered at http://www.clinicaltrials.gov under identifier NCT00083382.
Efficacy of high-dose chemotherapy or standard salvage therapy in patients with recurrent medulloblastoma.	The efficacy of high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) or standard salvage therapy was evaluated in patients with recurrent medulloblastoma (MBL) using retrospective chart review of all patients with recurrent MBL treated at Duke University Medical Center between 1995 and 2005 and who had undergone HDC with or without radiotherapy (RT) or standard salvage therapy after relapse. A total of 30 patients were diagnosed with recurrent MBL after standard RT alone or chemotherapy with RT. Nineteen patients (7 who received no RT before recurrence [group A] and 12 who received definitive RT before recurrence [group B]) underwent surgery and/or induction chemotherapy followed by HDC plus autologous stem-cell rescue. Eleven patients (group C) underwent standard salvage therapy. Six of seven group A patients also received standard RT just before or after recovery from HDC, and 5 of 12 group B patients received adjuvant palliative focal RT post-HDC. At a median follow-up of 28 months, three of seven patients in group A are alive and disease-free at >or=34, >or=110, and >or=116 months, respectively, post-HDC. All patients in groups B and C have died of tumor, at a median of 35 months and 26 months from HDC and standard salvage therapy, respectively. HDC or standard salvage therapy was ineffective in our patients with recurrent MBL who had received standard RT before recurrence. The favorable impact of HDC on disease control in the two long-term survivors cannot be clearly established due to the cofounding effect of definitive RT postrecurrence.
Hairy cell leukemia: current concepts.	Hairy cell Leukemia (HCL) is a chronic lymphoproliferative disorder that was characterized in the late 1950s. HCL is defined, according to the WHO classification, as a mature (peripheral) B-cell neoplasm (1). HCL accounts for between 2-3% of all leukemia cases, with about 600 new cases diagnosed in the U.S. each year (1). HCL occurs more commonly in males, with an overall male to female ratio of approximately 4:1. The median age of onset is 52 years. This disease is seen more commonly in Caucasians and appears to be especially frequent in Ashkenazi Jewish males, with rare occurrence in persons of Asian and African descents (1). Hairy cells are distinct, clonal B cells arrested at a late stage of maturation. They are small B lymphoid cells that possess oval nuclei and abundant cytoplasm with characteristic micro-filamentous ("hairy") projections. They strongly express CD103, CD22, and CD11c (2). These cells typically infiltrate the bone marrow, the spleen, and to a lesser extent the liver, lymph nodes, and skin. Many patients present with splenomegaly and pancytopenia. Other clinical manifestations include recurrent opportunistic infections and vasculitis. Historically, HCL was considered uniformly fatal (2). However, recent treatment advances, using purine analogues such as Cladribine and Pentostatin, led to a significant improvement in prognosis with achievement of high response rates and durable remissions (2).
Myeloablative chemotherapy with autologous bone marrow rescue in children and adolescents with recurrent malignant astrocytoma: outcome compared with conventional chemotherapy: a report from the Children's Oncology Group.	Children and adolescents with malignant astrocytomas recurring after initial treatment have a dismal prognosis, with only rare patients surviving 1-year beyond recurrence. The purpose of this study was to attempt to improve their survival.
Early glottic cancer--treatment results]	Early glottic cancer (stage T1, T2) is connected with very good prognosis as well as organ and function preservation. The aim of the study was the assessment of early glottic treatment results.
A phase I trial of irinotecan alternating with epirubicin in patients with advanced malignancies.	This phase I study was conducted to evaluate the combination of irinotecan, a topoisomerase I inhibitor, with epirubicin, a topoisomerase II inhibitor, when administered sequentially on a once-every-three week basis.
Nonoperable patients with superficial esophageal cancer treated by photodynamic therapy after chemoradiotherapy have more severe complications than patients treated in primary intent.	Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a therapeutic option in patients with a superficial esophageal cancer. Recently, PDT was shown to be effective as a salvage therapy for a local recurrence after chemoradiotherapy (CRT).
Phase II study of oxaliplatin in patients with unresectable, metastatic, or recurrent hepatocellular cancer: a California Cancer Consortium Trial.	Prolonged survival for patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is consistently reported at lower than 6 months. Oxaliplatin has recently demonstrated activity in HCC. The objective of this study was to determine the response rate, survival, time to progression, and toxicity in patients with poor prognosis HCC when treated with oxaliplatin.
Transanal endoscopic microsurgery.	Transanal endoscopic microsurgery, or TEM, is a technique that can be used for the treatment for early staged rectal cancer. This technique utilizes carbon dioxide insufflation through a 40 mm rectoscope to create better endoscopic visualization of the operative field. TEM has been praised for its access to middle and upper-third rectal cancers. However, one limitation of TEM is its inability to address local lymph node involvement. Therefore, an adequate preoperative assessment is crucial before using TEM as a curative modality. TEM can be used to remove virtually any benign lesion that can be brought into view. In addition, there are several studies that have shown TEM is a safe and effective way to treat T1 cancers and may have a role in the treatment of T2 and T3 cancers when combined with radiation and chemotherapy. TEM has lower recurrence rates, faster recovery, and fewer complications when compared to other local excision techniques and radical surgeries. The future of TEM is growing in acceptance as more surgeons learn to master this technique.
The new aspects of the eradication of Helicobacter pylori and the importance of bacterial resistance]	The first line treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection is a 7-day PPI-based (PPI+clarithromycin+amoxycillin or metronidazole) combined therapy. Success of first eradication attempts in the literature is around 80-90%, while in Hungary 75%. Repeated eradication is needed in 10-25% of cases. The second and third line treatments are successful only in 36% and 20% of cases. Treatment failure is increasing worldwide with the higher rates of bacterial, especially clarithromycin resistance. Patients' noncompliance, pharmacogenetic and pharmacokinetic properties of the applied drugs are important as well. The eradication success rates are unacceptable in populations with higher metronidazole and clarithromycin resistance, that is why there is a need for newer combinations. A possible solution is the application of sequential therapy, or using newer antibiotics (levofloxacin). The importance of new natural substances (lactoferrin, probiotics, plant drugs) must be further investigated.
Chemotherapy after second-line chemotherapy for patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer]	We evaluated chemotherapy after second-line chemotherapy for patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer.
Efficacy and toxicity of fluorouracil, leucovorin plus oxaliplatin (FOLFOX4 and modified FOLFOX6) followed by fluorouracil, leucovorin plus irinotecan(FOLFIRI)for advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer--case studies.	In this study, we investigated the efficacy and toxicity of fluorouracil(FU)+Leucovorin(LV)with oxaliplatin (FOLFOX)and irinotecan(FOLFIRI)for patients with advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer.
Chronic lymphatic leukemia]	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a B-lymphocyte derived clonal malignant disorder. Presently available chemotherapy is only palliative and is withheld unless typical symptoms evolve. Newly developed cytostatic drugs such as Fludarabine, Pentostatin and 2-Chlorodeoxyadenosin have shown promising activity in cases otherwise resistant to conventional chemotherapy. Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation has been successfully applied in some younger patients. Bone marrow transplantation at this time represents the only curative therapeutic modality and should be considered in younger patients having a suitable donor.
Partial laryngectomy for glottic cancer after high-dose radiotherapy.	A vertical partial laryngectomy (VPL) for salvage was performed on 25 patients with locally persistent or recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the vocal cord(s) after high-dose radiotherapy at the UCLA Medical Center between 1969 and 1988. Patients were followed for a minimum of 2 years and a median of 4.4 years after VPL. Ninety-six percent of patients remained free of disease. Tumor was controlled in patients with impaired vocal cord mobility and involvement of the contralateral cord or false cord. The actuarial survival rate was 80% at 5 years. There were no serious wound healing problems. A permanent tracheostomy was required in one patient due to recurrent aspiration pneumonia. Swallowing and voice function were satisfactory in all other patients. These results indicate that the selection criteria for initial VPL can be applied to the salvage situation with similar success.
Concomitant cisplatin and hyperfractionated external beam irradiation for advanced malignancy of the head and neck.	The combination of cisplatin and hyperfractionated external beam irradiation (HEBI), followed by salvage surgery when indicated, was evaluated in patients with advanced stage squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Thirty patients with stage III (n = 5) or IV (n = 25) disease received intravenous cisplatin 100 mg/m2 by 6-hour continuous infusion on days 1, 21, and 42 of HEBI. Radiation fractions of 110 cGy were given twice daily, separated by 4 to 6 hours, beginning within 12 hours after cisplatin delivery. Doses to the primary site ranged from 60 to 76.35 Gy (median: 72.3 Gy), with 60 to 74 Gy to nodal sites. Follow-up ranged from 4 to 28 months (median: 19 months). Clinical complete response of the primary site was seen in 27 of 29 patients (93%), and complete clinical clearance of adenopathy in 20 of 26 (76%). A second biopsy 6 to 8 weeks after completion of treatment showed residual disease in both the primary and nodal sites in three patients, and in only the primary site in one patient. Four patients with persistent adenopathy had pathologic confirmation at surgery. Four patients had recurrence after negative biopsy results 6 to 9 months after treatment biopsy. At present, with median follow-up of 19 months, eight patients (26%) have died secondary to uncontrolled primary or nodal disease. Two patients have died of nonrelated causes. Overall, 10 of 30 patients (66%) remain alive with no evidence of disease. Mucositis and weight loss were the most common side effects of treatment. Seven patients developed significant xerostomia, and four have cisplatin-related hearing loss requiring amplification. The early evidence of excellent response (89% pathologic complete response of primary sites; 78% complete response of nodal sites), coupled with acceptable treatment morbidity, warrants further study of this approach.
Treatment of relapsed and refractory Hodgkin's disease with high dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation.	Despite combination of chemotherapy and radiotherapy, some patients with refractory or relapsed Hodgkin's disease (HD) have a bad prognosis. We performed high dose chemotherapy (HDCT) (BCV regimen) with autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) in 26 patients with advanced HD. 11 patients were considered refractory after at least two non cross-resistant chemotherapy regimens and radiotherapy in 8 cases. 15 patients had a poor prognosis relapse (in visceral or irradiated site) after complete remission and they received chemotherapy before ABMT. At the time of transplantation 4 patients had progressive disease with B symptoms and did not respond to HDCT; they all died 3 to 12 months post-transplantation from persistent HD. For the remaining 22 patients, 3 months after HDCT 19 patients (73%) were in complete remission, 2 (8%) in partial remission and one patient died from toxicity. After complete remission 4 patients relapsed at 12 to 18 months and 15 patients are in persistent remission 24 to 46 months after transplantation. These results are encouraging in patients with bad prognostic factors but able to respond to chemotherapy.
Ifosfamide plus mitoxantrone as salvage treatment in non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.	Twenty-two patients affected by relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) were treated with a combination of ifosfamide (IFO) at the dose of 1.2 g/m2 intravenous (i.v.) (1 h infusion) for 5 consecutive days with mesna as uroprotector plus mitoxantrone (NOV) at the dose of 12 mg/m2 i.v. on day 1; both drugs were recycled every 3-4 weeks. Of 21 evaluable patients, overall response observed was 57% (38% complete response and 19% partial response with a median duration of response of 7 months (5-23+). Dose-limiting toxicity was represented by leukopenia (grade III-IV in 43% of cases); severe thrombocytopenia was observed less frequently (grade III-IV in 19% of cases). This hematologic toxicity prevented administration of therapy every 3 weeks as initially planned. However, the complete hematological recovery, usually observed at the fourth week, permitted therapy administration to all patients without dose reduction. Low-grade lymphomas responded to treatment as well as intermediate or high grade lymphomas. Moreover, patients treated with third- or fourth-line chemotherapy also responded. However, response was observed in 11/13 (85%) relapsed patients as compared to 2/8 (25%) refractory cases. The combination of IFO plus NOV is active in heavily pretreated patients with NHL. Nevertheless, the study of a larger number of patients is necessary to better define the exact role of this combination as "salvage" therapy for NHL.
N0332 phase 2 trial of weekly irinotecan hydrochloride and docetaxel in refractory metastatic breast cancer: a North Central Cancer Treatment Group (NCCTG) Trial.	Because of the single-agent activity of irinotecan hydrochloride, combination of irinotecan and docetaxel treatment against metastatic breast cancer (MBC) should be evaluated.
Stanford V program for locally extensive and advanced Hodgkin lymphoma: the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center experience.	The Stanford group has reported excellent results with the Stanford V regimen for patients with bulky and/or advanced Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). However, Gobbi reported markedly inferior failure-free survival (FFS) comparing Stanford V to other regimens but included major deviations from the original program. We retrospectively examined whether treatment at our institution carefully following Stanford V guidelines would confirm the original Stanford outcome data.
Dose-dense temozolomide regimen for the treatment of brain metastases from melanoma, breast cancer, or lung cancer not amenable to surgery or radiosurgery: a multicenter phase II study.	Brain metastases reduce survival because therapeutic options are limited. This phase II study evaluated the efficacy of single-agent therapy with alternating weekly, dose-dense temozolomide in pretreated patients with brain metastases prospectively stratified by primary tumor type.
Phase I study of the novel, fully synthetic epothilone sagopilone (ZK-EPO) in patients with solid tumors.	Sagopilone (ZK-EPO) is a fully synthetic microtubule-stabilizing agent that has demonstrated high antitumor activity in preclinical models. This first-in-human phase I study aimed to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxic effects (DLTs) of 3-weekly sagopilone treatment.
The combination of thalidomide, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone is potentially useful in highly resistant Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Few diseases have a prognosis worse than Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL), patients relapsing after autologous or allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Here, we report two highly refractory patients with HL who successfully responded to a combination of thalidomide, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone (ThaCyDex). Despite the use of a very large number of different drugs (>5 different schemes) including high-dose therapy and autologous and allogeneic stem cell transplantation, both patients proved to be suffering from a highly resistant disease. Fortunately, they finally responded to the ThaCyDex combination, achieving sustained complete remission that would support the running of a trial within this setting.
Current status of chemotherapy in risk-adapted management for metastatic testicular germ cell cancer.	Today, approximately 80% of men with metastatic testicular cancer can be cured with chemotherapy combined with the appropriate surgery. The improved treatment outcome has led to the stratification of patients with metastatic disease by the consensus prognostic index; the International Germ Cell Cancer Consensus Group classification. Currently, the first-line chemotherapy with bleomycin, etoposide, and cisplatin (BEP) remains the standard management of metastatic testicular cancer. Three cycles of BEP for good-prognosis patients and four cycles of BEP for intermediate- and poor-prognosis patients are the standard first-line chemotherapy. To achieve the optimal outcome, BEP should be given with appropriate supportive care and risk assessment for toxicity. Although no universal prognostic criteria have been defined for the recurrent or refractory disease, the risk-adapted approach may clarify the role of ifosfamide- and paclitaxel-containing conventional-dose chemotherapy or high-dose chemotherapy in the second-line setting. Several investigators reported recent improvement of treatment outcome of testicular cancer patients, especially those with poor prognosis. Along with the progress in chemotherapy, the risk-adapted management at experienced hospitals seems to be responsible for the recent progress in treatment outcome.
Proximal row carpectomy: long-term results.	To evaluate long-term clinical outcome of proximal carpectomy. Our assumption was that this intervention should result in long-term benefit, making a wrist painless, mobile, and functional, compatible with social and professional life, whatever the initial etiology of the degenerative wrist.
Cytoreduction and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemoperfusion in women with heavily pretreated recurrent ovarian cancer.	Limited data are available on the use of cytoreductive surgery with hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemoperfusion (HIPEC) in patients with recurrent stage III ovarian cancer.
Treatment outcome of thalidomide based regimens in newly diagnosed and relapsed/refractory non-transplant multiple myeloma patients: a single center experience from Thailand.	Thalidomide based regimen is an effective and well tolerated therapy in multiple myeloma (MM) patients, however, there were a small number of studies written about the results of thalidomide therapy in non-transplant MM patients. We therefore conducted a retrospective study of 42 consecutive patients with newly diagnosed and relapsed/refractory MM treated with thalidomide- based induction regimens followed by thalidomide maintenance therapy.
Assay-based response evaluation in head and neck oncology: requirements for better decision making.	This article gives an overview on different current strategies of assay-based response evaluation in head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC) and critically summarizes their role and needs for future clinical evaluation. Due to a growing amount of data of phase III clinical trials of multimodality treatment options for HNSCC, treatment planning in regard to optimal outcome is becoming an interdisciplinary challenge. New concepts such as induction chemotherapy with bi- or ternary combinations of chemotherapeutics, integration of targeted therapies, concurrent and sequential chemoradiation concepts, and multimodality-based organ preservation strategies strongly compete with traditional definitive surgical procedures. Moreover, the outcome is difficult to predict due to heterogeneity of a tumor's response, impaired late functional outcome, and increased late toxicity if simultaneously applied to radiation. Retrospectively looking at non-responders with tumors classified as resectable, primary surgery is very likely to have achieved better results, since chemoradiation causes a high degree of early and late toxicities leading to extremely complicated terms and conditions in surgery following current multimodal therapeutic strategies. Unfortunately, predictive information on response characteristics of a given tumor before starting the therapy is not available in daily routine, although heterogeneity in response of a given tumor entity to treatments has been known for decades. Therefore, current therapy strategies for HNSCC still have to ignore this fact, creating an urgent need for the development of proper predictive assays. There are interesting clinical observations showing that response on induction chemotherapy may predict the outcome after radiotherapy. Some trials use this empiric phenomenon to pre-select non-responders for primary surgical treatment avoiding severe salvage complications after failure of complete chemoradiation treatment. Moving one step further, recent literature and our own investigations implicate that response evaluation of the individual patient's HNSCC in a suitable ex vivo assay just before starting the treatment is mature for clinical research. To this end, essential needs and hints are addressed and discussed.
Primary pituitary lymphoma: idiopathic anasarca with relapse in bone marrow only.	We report a case of primary large B cell-type pituitary lymphoma in a 47-year-old immunocompetent female who presented with headache and cranial nerve palsy. She was treated with the DeAngelis chemotherapy protocol and achieved a complete remission. At 1 and 6 months after completion of chemotherapy, she presented with anasarca and was diagnosed with relapse exclusively in the bone marrow twice. She received 8 cycles of R-CHOP chemotherapy and had complete resolution of anasarca. Consequently, we proceeded with salvage chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of primary pituitary lymphoma that relapsed exclusively in the bone marrow and presented with clinical findings of idiopathic anasarca.
Phase II study of gemcitabine plus docetaxel as second-line treatment in malignant pleural mesothelioma: a single institution study.	The combinations of cisplatin-pemetrexed and cisplatin-gemcitabine are considered the standard systemic therapy for malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM), which is a rapidly progressive tumor. The purpose of the present study is to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and clinical benefit of the gemcitabine plus docetaxel regimen in the second-line treatment of this disease.
Primary and salvage cryotherapy for prostate cancer.	Cryotherapy is a technique to ablate tissue by local induction of extremely cold temperatures. Recently, the American Urological Association Best Practice Statement recognized cryoablation of the prostate as an established treatment option for men with newly diagnosed or radiorecurrent organ-confined prostate cancer. Emerging data suggest that, in select cases, cryoablation may have a role in focal ablation of prostate. The current state of the art of cryoablation in these applications is reviewed.
Effectiveness of boosted protease inhibitor-based regimens in HIV type 1-infected patients who experienced virological failure with NNRTI-based antiretroviral therapy in a resource-limited setting.	A number of patients have experienced treatment failure while receiving non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-based antiretroviral therapy (ART), particularly in resource-limited countries. The need remains for clinical data on protease inhibitor (PI)-based regimens in these patients. A retrospective cohort study was conducted among HIV-1-infected patients who had failed NNRTI-based regimens, were naive to protease inhibitors (PIs), and subsequently initiated a salvage PI-based regimen between January 2004 and December 2006. The study period ended on 30 December 2007. One hundred and forty patients received a single-boosted PI +/- optimized background regimen (OBR) and 64 received double-boosted PIs. The median (IQR) duration of follow-up was 19 (13-29) months. The overall virological failure rate at 24 months was 15.2%. No statistically significant difference was detected between the two regimen groups (single-boosted PI +/- OBR 16.4% vs. double-boosted PIs 12.5%, log rank p = 0.818). At the end of the study, the median (IQR) change in CD4 cell counts for patients in the double-boosted PI group was higher than for patients in the single-boosted PI +/- OBR group [149 (53-322) vs. 105 (23-199), respectively, p = 0.012]. Patients receiving double-boosted PI regimens displayed a higher frequency of hypertriglyceridemia than those patients who received a single boosted PI +/- OBR (31% vs. 11%, respectively, p = 0.001). Boosted PI-based regimens showed acceptable virological outcomes among patients who had failed NNRTI-based ART. In the subgroup analysis, patients who received double-boosted PIs demonstrated a superior immunological response but not better virological outcomes compared to the single-boosted PI +/- OBR group.
Urolith masquerading as severe acute radiation toxicity: case report.	Postoperative radiotherapy after radical prostatectomy has been shown to improve numerous outcomes for selected patients in mature randomized controlled trials. During treatment patients usually experience mild to moderate urinary symptoms, lower gastrointestinal symptoms and tiredness. We describe an unusual case of a patient experiencing severe, culture negative urinary symptoms early in a course of salvage radiotherapy.
Prevention of wound complications after salvage total laryngectomy following chemoradiotherapy with a pectoralis major muscle interposition flap]	There is an increased risk of wound complications in patients undergoing salvage laryngectomy following chemoradiotherapy. To reduce the rate of wound complications after a salvage total laryngectomy, a fresh tissue reinforcement of the pharyngeal suture line (pharyngeal interposition graft) has been reported to be useful. In the present study, wound complications after a salvage total laryngectomy with a pectoralis major muscle flap as a pharyngeal interposition graft were analyzed. Four patients with recurrent laryngeal cancer (three with supraglottic, and one with glottic cancer) after chemoradiotherapy underwent salvage total laryngectomy using a pectoralis major muscle interposition flap. Minor wound complications were observed in three of the four patients, with an infection around the tracheostoma, a minor subcutaneous abscess, and a superficial skin necrosis in one patient each. These complications were managed with local wound care. No patients had major wound complications such as pharyngocutaneous fistulas. There were no necroses or wound complications of the pectoralis major muscle flap. This study has suggested that the pectoralis major muscle flap as a pharyngeal interposition graft is safe and useful for prevention of wound complications in salvage total laryngectomy following chemoradiotherapy.
A case report: multiple air embolism after the laryngopharyngoesophagectomy occurred by the cervical infection from postoperative fistula]	Systemic air embolism, a very rare clinical condition, has many causes. We report a case of multiple air embolisms following laryngopharyngoesophagectomy salvage surgery for hypopharyngeal residual cancer after concurrent chemoradiotherapy. Cervical infection arose from a fistula caused by postoperative suture failure in which the 56-year-old man suddenly lost consciousness and went into shock. A few days post operation, an air embolism happened and caused in the brain, pulmonary, myocardiac and cerebral infarction. The man died two months after initial occurrence. We suspect that air entered through the ruptured left internal jugular vein via infection due to aspiration at the injury site. Air embolisms are associated with different medical maneuvers, and it is necessary to recognize that they may become a serious perioperative complication.
Single agent vinflunine in the salvage treatment of patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer: a phase II trial of the Sarah Cannon research consortium.	Patients with metastatic prostate cancer resistant to hormones and docetaxel were treated with vinflunine (320 mg/m(2) every 21 days), a new vinca alkaloid with improved preclinical activity. Only 1 of 36 patients (3%) had partial response; the median progression-free survival (PFS) was 2.1 months. Treatment was well tolerated, with myelosuppression as the only frequent toxicity. Vinflunine has a low level of activity in the treatment of refractory metastatic prostate cancer, and should not be further developed for this indication.
Effect of Chai-ling-tang (Sairei-to) for methotrexate concentration degradation delay by methotrexate high-dose therapy]	When methotrexate (MTX) salvage chemotherapy is performed for primary brain malignant lymphoma, use of leucovonrin rescue must often be extended due to delays in the degradation of blood concentration. We examined whether delay in MTX blood concentration degradation could be prevented by chai-ling-tang (Sairei-to) which has diuretic action. In the five cases examined were MTX blood concentration 72 hours after MTX administration was more than 1 x 10(-7) M. A single dose of 3 g of chai-ling-tang was administered three times on the day the MTX salvage chemotherapy was subsequently performed. MTX blood concentration at 72 hours post MTX administration and subsequent chai-ling-tang administration was less than 1 x 10(-7) M in all five cases. In addition, urea nitrogen and creatinine levels in serum increased and creatinine clearance decreased following MTX administration, however these changes induced by MTX administration were reduced by chai-ling-tang administration. Chai-ling-tang was effective in preventing an MTX deferent delay in MTX high-dose therapy by improving renal blood flow.
Stereotactic body radiotherapy for refractory cervical lymph node recurrence of nonanaplastic thyroid cancer.	To investigate the feasibility and efficacy of stereotactic body radiotherapy as salvage treatment for cervical node recurrence from nonanaplastic thyroid cancer refractory to other modalities.
Arteriovenous fistula and graft evaluation in hemodialysis patients using MDCT: a primer.	Patent arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is related to better prognosis and quality of life for patients on long-term dialysis. When AVF dysfunction is suspected, MDCT is a good noninvasive tool for evaluating the entire AVF structure and determining reversible conditions for treatment. The aim of this article is to introduce the scanning and interpretation techniques and to illustrate the conditions related to early and late fistula failures.
Tumour recurrence]	In Chap. 6 the German S3 guideline on prostate cancer addresses the issue of tumour recurrence following primary local treatment with curative intent, i.e. after radical prostatectomy or a form of radiotherapy. PSA recurrence after radical surgery is defined as a rising PSA of 0.2 ng/ml and after radiotherapy as an increase of at least 2 ng/ml above the individual nadir. Factors for the clinical judgement that a local recurrence is likely are empirical indicators from the primary tumour diagnosis and the PSA course after primary treatment. Salvage external beam radiotherapy after radical surgery does not require the histological proof of a local recurrence and should be initiated early (PSA < 0.5 ng/ml). Before salvage radical prostatectomy, which carries a higher complication rate, the presence of a local recurrence should be histologically verified.
Difficult treatment decisions in autoimmune hepatitis.	Treatment decisions in autoimmune hepatitis are complicated by the diversity of its clinical presentations, uncertainties about its natural history, evolving opinions regarding treatment end points, varied nature of refractory disease, and plethora of alternative immunosuppressive agents. The goals of this article are to review the difficult treatment decisions and to provide the bases for making sound therapeutic judgments. The English literature on the treatment problems in autoimmune hepatitis were identified by Medline search up to October 2009 and 32 years of personal experience. Autoimmune hepatitis may have an acute severe presentation, mild inflammatory activity, lack autoantibodies, exhibit atypical histological changes (centrilobular zone 3 necrosis or bile duct injury), or have variant features reminiscent of another disease (overlap syndrome). Corticosteroid therapy must be instituted early, applied despite the absence of symptoms, or modified in an individualized fashion. Pursuit of normal liver tests and tissue is the ideal treatment end point, but this objective must be tempered against the risk of side effects. Relapse after treatment withdrawal requires long-term maintenance therapy, preferably with azathioprine. Treatment failure or an incomplete response warrants salvage therapy that can include conventional medications in modified dose or empirical therapies with calcineurin inhibitors or mycophenolate mofetil. Liver transplantation supersedes empirical drug therapy in decompensated patients. Elderly and pregnant patients warrant treatment modifications. Difficult treatment decisions in autoimmune hepatitis can be simplified by recognizing its diverse manifestations and individualizing treatment, pursuing realistic goals, applying appropriate salvage regimens, and identifying problematic patients early.
The role of rituximab in autologous and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	The addition of rituximab to chemotherapy has substantially changed the treatment strategies for patients with B-cell lymphomas. Rituximab, combined with standard chemotherapy regimens, shows consistently improved results compared with chemotherapy alone and has been extensively employed in both newly diagnosed and relapsed patients with B-cell lymphoma. Because of its low toxicity profile and its potent antilymphoma activity mediated through direct apoptotic and indirect effector mechanisms, rituximab also has been actively incorporated into stem cell transplantation (SCT) protocols to attain a state of minimal disease, provide a safe and effective method for in vivo purging prior to autologous SCT, and promote graft-versus-lymphoma effects in allogeneic SCT. This review compiles the still immature but rapidly growing data on this combined modality.
Treatment of Burkitt lymphoma in children and adults: Lessons from Africa.	Modern chemotherapy for childhood Burkitt lymphoma has its origins in Africa, where treatment evolved from one or two doses of single agents, which were curative in some patients, to combinations of non-cross-resistant drugs. Subsequently, in Europe and the United States, high-dose methotrexate, high-dose cytarabine, etoposide, and ifosfamide were found to be active in children with recurrent disease and were incorporated into primary therapy for patients with high-risk disease. These third-generation protocols produce overall cure rates around 90%. Therapy regimens for adults with Burkitt lymphoma have been developed by modifying second-generation pediatric protocols, and few investigators have used the third-generation pediatric regimens that include higher doses of methotrexate and additional agents. The weight of evidence strongly suggests that high-dose therapy with stem cell rescue in first remission cannot substitute for intensive therapy from the outset. Tolerance of intensive regimens by the elderly is a legitimate concern, but it seems appropriate to modify therapy only when necessary in individual patients. The value of rituximab and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in patients undergoing intensive therapy (particularly the elderly) is worthy of further exploration. Because childhood diffuse large-B-cell leukemia (DLBCL) responds equally well to therapy for Burkitt lymphoma, more intensive therapy and intensive support might also give better results in at least a subset of adults with advanced DLBCL-perhaps defined on the basis of limited molecular profiling, which has provided new information about the categories of aggressive B-cell lymphomas.
Lymphoblastic lymphoma in adults.	Understanding of the pathogenesis and biology of precursor T-cell and B-cell neoplasms has advanced significantly with the description of gene expression profiling studies, especially in T-cell disease. These studies have demonstrated leukemic arrest at various stages of thymocyte maturation, characterized by gene expression signatures with prognostic significance. Optimal treatment strategies for adult lymphoblastic lymphoma are uncertain, although current evidence supports the use of regimens similar to those used in acute lymphoblastic leukemia, with intensive induction therapy, central nervous system prophylaxis, and prolonged consolidation maintenance therapy. Current studies do not demonstrate a benefit from stem cell transplantation in first remission, although this approach is probably beneficial in relapsed disease. Identification of new therapeutic targets by further molecular studies is required.
Arsenic trioxide as a treatment for myelodysplastic syndrome.	Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is a heterogeneous bone marrow disorder primarily affecting older adults, for whom the only curative therapy, bone marrow transplantation, is rarely an option. New therapies, or novel applications of historical therapies, are desperately needed. Arsenic trioxide (ATO), which acts through proapoptotic, antiproliferative, and antiangiogenesis mechanisms, has been used successfully to treat a variety of hematologic malignancies, including MDS. As monotherapy or in combination with other agents, it can effect hematologic improvement in 22% to 26% of patients, with tolerable side effects. MDS patients whose cells express the EVI1 mutation in particular may derive benefit from this therapy.
Advances in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	A dramatic change has taken place in therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia over the past 15 years. In 1990, available therapy produced complete responses in less than 5% of treated patients. This is in marked contrast to modern regimens, which can reliably produce complete responses in over 50% of patients. This remarkable improvement is completely attributable to the introduction of new active agents. These new agents include three purine analogues (pentostatin, fludarabine, and cladribine) and two monoclonal antibodies (rituximab and alemtuzumab). Novel combinations of these agents have emerged as effective new therapies for previously untreated and pretreated patients. Clinical studies indicate that such combinations can induce higher response rates-including complete responses-than single-agent therapy. Those patients who achieve a complete response have superior survival, compared with those who achieve only a partial response. Though not yet demonstrated in a prospective randomized trial, treatment approaches aimed at achieving high-quality responses may one day lead to an improvement in survival for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and, ultimately, offer the hope of curative therapy in these patients.
Update on practical aspects of the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia with imatinib mesylate.	Imatinib (imatinib mesylate, Gleevec(R) [formerly known as STI571], Novartis Pharmaceuticals, Basel, Switzerland) is a protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor that is approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for patients with all phases of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Imatinib is remarkably effective as treatment for CML in the chronic phase (at a dosage of 400 mg/d) and the accelerated phase (at 600 mg/d). At this time, it remains to be seen whether the chronic phase of CML can be extended sufficiently in some patients so that they are functionally "cured," and also whether the increased rate of major molecular response induced by doses of imatinib higher than 400 mg/d will further improve overall survival of patients with CML in the chronic phase. The value of molecular monitoring of response in patients with CML in the chronic phase is examined. Although imatinib 800 mg/d can induce dramatic responses in patients with myeloid blast crisis, lymphoid blast crisis, and Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL), the responses are usually incomplete and of short duration. We discuss the role of imatinib in relation to allogeneic stem cell transplantation (particularly in younger patients), recognizing that the data upon which any decisions can be made are relatively immature. Finally, recent data on new tyrosine kinase inhibitors capable of overcoming primary or acquired resistance to imatinib are reviewed.
Second-line chemotherapy for small-cell lung cancer (SCLC).	Although small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) generally shows an excellent response to initial chemotherapy, most patients finally relapse and salvage chemotherapy is considered. Usually, the response to salvage chemotherapy significantly differs between sensitive and refractory relapse. Sensitive relapse is relatively chemosensitive and re-challenge with the same drugs as used in the initial chemotherapy has been used historically, while refractory relapse is extremely chemo-resistant and its prognosis has been abysmal. To date, a number of clinical trials have been carried out for relapsed SCLC; however, the number of randomized trials is quite limited. At present, topotecan is the only drug approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for relapsed SCLC, and is considered the standard second-line chemotherapy in many countries. More recently, amrubicin has also shown more favorable antitumor activity, and is the most promising at present. Unfortunately, targeted agents have failed to demonstrate effectiveness for SCLC. Better understanding of the molecular mechanisms is clearly needed.
Efficacy of high-dose methotrexate, ifosfamide, etoposide and dexamethasone salvage therapy for recurrent or refractory childhood malignant lymphoma.	Children with recurrent or refractory malignant lymphoma generally have a poor prognosis. There is a need for new active drug combinations for this high-risk group of patients.
Adjuvant radiotherapy after radical prostatectomy: evidence and analysis.	Although surgery provides excellent control for localized prostate cancer, pathologic examination of more than one-third of specimens will reveal positive surgical margins, seminal vesicle invasion, and/or extracapsular extension, thus putting these patients at increased risk of cancer recurrence. "Adjuvant" radiotherapy (ART) refers to treatment of patients with an undetectable PSA that is delivered after surgery (usually less than 12-16 weeks from the time of surgery). Currently, there are no standardized guidelines for the use of ART and the bulk of patients are solely monitored for signs of recurrence after prostatectomy. In this article, we review the evidence for ART from three randomized clinical trials. Although radiation therapy in the adjuvant setting has generally been well tolerated, we also examine the complication data associated with treatment. In addition, we discuss the technical aspects of treatment, including dose escalation and treatment target volume. The ability to increase dose and limit target volume would likely result in higher cure rates and decreased side effects, thus ensuring a better clinical outcome and increasing quality of life. Finally, we discuss the cost-effectiveness of ART, in the context of other medical interventions.
Systematic review highlights difficulty interpreting diverse clinical outcomes in abnormal uterine bleeding trials.	(1) To systematically collect and organize into clinical categories all outcomes reported in trials for abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB); (2) to rank the importance of outcomes for patient decision making; and (3) to improve future comparisons of effects in trials of AUB interventions.
The impact of tumor volume and radiotherapy dose on outcome in previously irradiated recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck treated with stereotactic body radiation therapy.	To assess the effect of stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) dose and tumor volume on outcomes in patients with recurrent, previously irradiated squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
Precision hepatic arterial irinotecan therapy in the treatment of unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocellular carcinoma: optimal tolerance and prolonged overall survival.	Unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocellular carcinoma (ICC) carries a poor prognosis, and there are few chemotherapeutic treatments to prolong survival. The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of drug-eluting bead (DEB) therapy by transarterial infusion for unresectable ICC.
Bendamustine/mitoxantrone/rituximab: a short remission induction  chemoimmunotherapy for elderly patients with relapsed or refractory  chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	We have evaluated all outpatients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who were treated with bendamustine/mitoxantrone/rituximab (BMR) between May 1999 and December 2008. Treatment consisted of bendamustine 90 mg/m2 on day 1 + 2, Mitoxantrone 6 mg/m2 on day 1, and Rituximab 375 mg/m2 on day 8, 15, 22 + 29. Thirty-nine patients (19 males, 20 females) received BMR with a median age of 69 years (4681). Nineteen patients (49%) were above 70 years and 13 patients (33%) were 75 years or above. Performance score ranged between 0 and 2. The median number of previous therapies was 2 (14). Therapy was tolerated well with two observed therapy-associated hospitalizations. A reversible grade 3 or 4 hematotoxicity was seen in 30 patients (77%). Other reversible grade 3 or 4 toxicities were seen in two patients (5%). The overall response rate was 92% (10% complete remission, 82% partial remission). Median time to next CLL-therapy was 13 months (069). We conclude that BMR is a short and effective outpatient chemoimmunotherapy for patients with relapsed or refractory CLL, which can be used safely in elderly patients.
Optimal treatment for relapsing patients with Hodgkin lymphoma.	Relapsed or refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) remains a therapeutic challenge. Patients with relapsed HL should be identified according to their prognostic factors at relapse (duration of remission and extranodal disease or stage). Patients with refractory disease, defined as progression during induction treatment or within 90 days after the end of treatment, have the worst prognosis. Following non-crossresistant salvage chemotherapy to achieve cytoreduction, high-dose therapy (HDT) and autologous stem cell transplantation has been shown to be better than conventional-dose chemotherapy for first-relapse/refractory HL. For patients with very unfavorable relapse or primary refractory HL, outcome remains poor with HDT. For these patients, the role of tandem HDT or allogeneic stem cell transplantation will be discussed. In this setting, novel investigational treatments will be presented.
Salvage chemotherapy with low-dose cytarabine and aclarubicin in combination with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor priming in patients with refractory or relapsed acute myeloid leukemia with translocation (8;21).	High expression levels of granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) receptor were found in the leukemic cells of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients with t(8;21). Therapeutic significance of G-CSF receptor on chemotherapy remains to be defined. We evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of CAG regimen, consisting of concurrent use of G-CSF with low-dose cytarabine and aclarubicin, in 36 refractory/relapsed AML patients with t(8;21). The overall complete remission (CR) rate was 75% and median CR duration was 12 months. No significant treatment-related adverse events were observed. These data demonstrate that CAG regimen might be an alternative option in the treatment of AML with t(8;21), especially in older patients or patients with co-morbidities.
Perineal, endoscopic desobliteration of a complete anastomotic stricture following a salvage radical prostatectomy]	Anastomotic strictures are a known complication following a radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer. In rare cases there can be a complete displacement of the urethral anastomosis region. Treating this obstruction poses a technical challenge. Therapy includes open reconstruction of the bladder neck, continent stoma but also often only a suprapubic urinary diversion. A problem occurs when precisely this diversion has to be removed.
Disease-free survival following salvage cryotherapy for biopsy-proven radio-recurrent prostate cancer.	The optimum treatment of prostate cancer recurrence following radiation therapy (RT) remains controversial due to the lack of long-term data.
The role of transplantation in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: the impact of rituximab plus chemotherapy in first-line and relapsed settings.	Rituximab has improved the prognosis of patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, but a high proportion of patients with advanced disease will relapse or will fail to achieve a remission with front-line treatment. Salvage chemotherapy, followed by high-dose chemotherapy or radiation therapy and autologous stem cell transplantation, remains the best treatment option for such patients, especially those who retain chemosensitivity. Allogeneic transplantation is under investigation in this setting, often as a treatment for relapse after autologous transplantation. Treatment-related mortality due to graft-versus-host disease, preparative regimen toxicity, and poor immune recovery often limits its benefits. This article reviews the role of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in the treatment of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, the incorporation of rituximab, and avenues of clinical investigation in this rapidly evolving field.
Antiangiogenic agents in the treatment of recurrent or newly diagnosed glioblastoma: analysis of single-agent and combined modality approaches.	Surgical resection followed by radiotherapy and temozolomide in newly diagnosed glioblastoma can prolong survival, but it is not curative. For patients with disease progression after frontline therapy, there is no standard of care, although further surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy may be used. Antiangiogenic therapies may be appropriate for treating glioblastomas because angiogenesis is critical to tumor growth. In a large, noncomparative phase II trial, bevacizumab was evaluated alone and with irinotecan in patients with recurrent glioblastoma; combination treatment was associated with an estimated 6-month progression-free survival (PFS) rate of 50.3%, a median overall survival of 8.9 months, and a response rate of 37.8%. Single-agent bevacizumab also exceeded the predetermined threshold of activity for salvage chemotherapy (6-month PFS rate, 15%), achieving a 6-month PFS rate of 42.6% (p < 0.0001). On the basis of these results and those from another phase II trial, the US Food and Drug Administration granted accelerated approval of single-agent bevacizumab for the treatment of glioblastoma that has progressed following prior therapy. Potential antiangiogenic agents-such as cilengitide and XL184-also show evidence of single-agent activity in recurrent glioblastoma. Moreover, the use of antiangiogenic agents with radiation at disease progression may improve the therapeutic ratio of single-modality approaches. Overall, these agents appear to be well tolerated, with adverse event profiles similar to those reported in studies of other solid tumors. Further research is needed to determine the role of antiangiogenic therapy in frontline treatment and to identify the optimal schedule and partnering agents for use in combination therapy.
Phase II multicenter trial of voreloxin as second-line therapy in chemotherapy-sensitive or refractory small cell lung cancer.	Voreloxin is an anticancer quinolone derivative that intercalates DNA and inhibits topoisomerase II, causing double-strand breaks in DNA, irreversible G2 arrest, and rapid onset of apoptosis. Based on preclinical activity of voreloxin in chemoresistant tumors, early phase I clinical activity, and a mechanism of action similar to other topoisomerase II inhibitors such as the anthracyclines and etoposide, this phase II trial was undertaken as second-line treatment of small cell lung cancer (SCLC).
Radioembolization as salvage therapy for hepatic metastasis of uveal melanoma: a single-institution experience.	The purpose of this study was to assess the safety and efficacy of radioembolization in the management of hepatic metastasis of uveal melanoma after failure of immunoembolization or chemoembolization.
Clinical and biological features of t(4;14) multiple myeloma: a prospective study.	The t(4;14) translocation, found in 15% of multiple myeloma (MM), indicates a poor prognosis. Clinico-biological features associated with this severe outcome and the impact of novel agents are unknown. We report a series of 102 consecutive patients with t(4;14) MM. The median age was 56 years. The isotype was IgA in 42%, and the median serum (2)-microglobulin was 2.3 mg/L. FGFR3 expression was lacking in 20 (19%) cases. Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) or smoldering MM (sMM) was found in 26 patients (25%). Seven (27%) became symptomatic in a median time of 9 months. Fifty-six of 76 patients with symptomatic MM received high-dose therapy (HDT). The overall response rate (ORR) was 93% (22% CR, 44% VGPR), and the median progression-free survival (PFS) was 12 months. Twenty-four (37%) patients experienced aggressive relapse. Post-second-line ORR was 51% and the median PFS was 7 months, with a trend for longer PFS in patients treated with a bortezomib-based regimen. Median overall survival after HDT was 31 months. t(4;14) is detected in patients with MGUS/sMM and this does not require immediate chemotherapy. Patients with t(4;14) MM have a high ORR after HDT, contrasting with a short PFS and aggressive relapses, and, despite novel agents, still have a poor prognosis.
How I treat relapsed and refractory Hodgkin lymphoma.	Relapsed or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma is a challenging problem for clinicians who treat hematologic malignancies. The standard management of these patients should include the use of salvage chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) in patients who are chemotherapy sensitive. Open issues in this area include the role of functional imaging, the specific chemotherapy regimen to be used before ASCT, and the role of consolidative radiotherapy. Some patients will not be eligible for ASCT, and alternative approaches with conventional chemotherapy alone or with salvage radiotherapy should be considered. Prognostic factors for relapsed/refractory disease have been identified but generally are not used as a part of risk-adapted therapy. Allogeneic transplantation may offer the potential of a graft-versus-lymphoma effect, but this therapy has significant toxicity and results in few long-term disease-free survivors; hence, it should only be offered in the context of disease-specific clinical trials. An expanding list of novel drugs has exhibited promising single-agent activity. Patients have effective options beyond primary therapy, and continued progress through controlled trials remains a tangible goal in the treatment of relapsed and refractory disease.
Successful S-1 monotherapy for chemorefractory thymic carcinoma.	The optimal chemotherapeutic regimen for inoperable thymic carcinoma remains uncertain and little information is available regarding the usefulness of salvage chemotherapy. S-1, a newly developed oral fluorouracil antitumor drug, has been reported to be effective in the treatment of gastrointestinal tumors and non-small cell lung cancer. This case study reports a case of chemorefractory thymic cancer with a good response to S-1 monotherapy. S-1 was used as sixth-line chemotherapy and the response was the first remarkable tumor regression in the patient's clinical course. S-1 appears to have significant activity against thymic carcinoma.
Temsirolimus in metastatic chromophobe renal cell carcinoma after interferon and sorafenib therapy.	Chromophobe renal cell carcinoma (chRCC) is a common subtype of renal cell carcinoma (RCC), occurring in 6-11% of renal carcinoma patients. Limited clinical trial data have shown minimal activity with cytokines and chemotherapy, although small-molecule inhibitors of the vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor pathways such as sunitinib and sorafenib, which are associated with significant clinical activity in clear-cell RCC (ccRCC), have been associated with a 25% response rate in chRCC. The mammalian target of rapamycin kinase inhibitor temsirolimus demonstrates good clinical activity in ccRCC patients with poor prognosis, with further data suggesting it is an effective treatment for all RCC tumour histologies. This report describes the case of a patient with chRCC who experienced rapid improvement in his general condition and stable disease on treatment with temsirolimus, following disease progression on interferon alfa and sorafenib treatment. This case report suggests that temsirolimus is an effective and appropriate treatment for this RCC tumour subtype.
The American Society of Hematology 2011 evidence-based practice guideline for immune thrombocytopenia.	Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is commonly encountered in clinical practice. In 1996 the American Society of Hematology published a landmark guidance paper designed to assist clinicians in the management of this disorder. Since 1996 there have been numerous advances in the management of both adult and pediatric ITP. These changes mandated an update in the guidelines. This guideline uses a rigorous, evidence-based approach to the location, interpretation, and presentation of the available evidence. We have endeavored to identify, abstract, and present all available methodologically rigorous data informing the treatment of ITP. We provide evidence-based treatment recommendations using the GRADE system in those areas in which such evidence exists. We do not provide evidence in those areas in which evidence is lacking, or is of lower quality--interested readers are referred to a number of recent, consensus-based recommendations for expert opinion in these clinical areas. Our review identified the need for additional studies in many key areas of the therapy of ITP such as comparative studies of "front-line" therapy for ITP, the management of serious bleeding in patients with ITP, and studies that will provide guidance about which therapy should be used as salvage therapy for patients after failure of a first-line intervention.
TNF dose reduction and shortening of duration of isolated limb perfusion for locally advanced soft tissue sarcoma of the extremities is safe and effective in terms of long-term patient outcome.	Dose reduction and shortening of duration of perfusion in isolated limb perfusion with TNF- and Melphalan (TM-ILP) are associated with less systemic toxicity and seem to be safe and effective on short-term. However, data on long-term patient outcome are scarce.
Vesicourethral anastomotic stricture following radical prostatectomy with or without postoperative radiotherapy]	To know the incidence of vesicourethral anastomotic stricture in patients with prostate cancer treated with radical prostatectomy. Our secondary aim was to verify if postoperative radiotherapy increases the risk of presenting anastomotic stricture.
Non-CPAP therapies in obstructive sleep apnoea.	In view of the high prevalence and the relevant impairment of patients with obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS) lots of methods are offered which promise definitive cures for or relevant improvement of OSAS. This report summarises the efficacy of alternative treatment options in OSAS. An interdisciplinary European Respiratory Society task force evaluated the scientific literature according to the standards of evidence-based medicine. Evidence supports the use of mandibular advancement devices in mild to moderate OSAS. Maxillomandibular osteotomy seems to be as efficient as continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) in patients who refuse conservative treatment. Distraction osteogenesis is usefully applied in congenital micrognathia or midface hypoplasia. There is a trend towards improvment after weight reduction. Positional therapy is clearly inferior to CPAP and long-term compliance is poor. Drugs, nasal dilators and apnoea triggered muscle stimulation cannot be recommended as effective treatments of OSAS at the moment. Nasal surgery, radiofrequency tonsil reduction, tongue base surgery, uvulopalatal flap, laser midline glossectomy, tongue suspension and genioglossus advancement cannot be recommended as single interventions. Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, pillar implants and hyoid suspension should only be considered in selected patients and potential benefits should be weighed against the risk of long-term side-effects. Multilevel surgery is only a salvage procedure for OSA patients.
Selection of a patient subgroup with advanced esophageal squamous carcinoma who could benefit from second-line chemotherapy.	Despite first-line therapy, most patients with advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) experience disease progression and may become eligible for second-line chemotherapy. Although commonly used, the role of salvage chemotherapy in patients with recurrent or metastatic ESCC has not yet been established. We analyzed 53 patients who had received second-line chemotherapy after the failure of cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy as first-line therapy in ESCC between March 2000 and June 2008. Median progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) for second-line chemotherapy were 2.4 and 5.2 months, respectively, with an overall response rate of 18.9%. In multivariate analysis, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG PS) of 2 or more and PFS under first-line therapy <4 months were independent prognostic factors for decreased OS. OS was estimated based on the number of adverse prognostic factors: 0 = good; 1 = intermediate, and 2 = poor. The median OS for the good, intermediate, and poor prognostic groups were 11.2, 4.5 and 4.3 months, respectively (p < 0.001). The good prognostic group showed better OS than the intermediate or poor groups (p < 0.001). Second-line chemotherapy may be beneficial for OS in ESCC patients with ECOG PS 0-1 and PFS under first-line therapy 4 months.
Sunitinib in relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: a clinical and pharmacodynamic phase II multicenter study of the NCIC Clinical Trials Group.	There are limited effective therapies for most patients with relapsed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). We conducted a phase II trial of the multi-targeted vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) kinase inhibitor, sunitinib, 37.5 mg given orally once daily in adult patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL. Of 19 enrolled patients, 17 eligible patients were evaluable for toxicity and 15 for response. No objective responses were seen and nine patients achieved stable disease (median duration 3.4 months). As a result, the study was closed at the end of the first stage. Grades 3-4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were observed in 29% and 35%, respectively. There was no relationship between change in circulating endothelial cell numbers (CECs) and bidimensional tumor burden over time. Despite some activity in solid tumors, sunitinib showed no evidence of response in relapsed/refractory DLBCL and had greater than expected hematologic toxicity.
Salvage therapy for relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a common hematologic malignancy with a highly variable clinical course. While the median age at diagnosis is 72 years of age and fewer than 10% of patients are diagnosed before the age of 60 years, the majority of patients who require therapy will ultimately relapse. Advances in upfront therapy and supportive care have dramatically improved initial responses compared with traditional akylator-based chemotherapy. However, comparable results are not generally observed in the salvage setting. Careful planning that takes into account the duration of the initial response, patient age and/or comorbidities, and cytogenetic and molecular profiles are critical for the successful management of patients with relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma carrying both t(3 ; 7)(q27 ; p12) and t(8 ; 14)(q24 ; q32).	We report a 60-year-old man with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma harboring both t(3 ; 7)(q27 ; p12) and t(8 ; 14)(q24 ; q32). Although he received six courses of conventional combination chemotherapy plus rituximab, early relapse occurred. Four courses of an intensive salvage regimen and high-dose chemotherapy with autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation were performed. The patient has remained in complete remission for over 24 months. This case is noteworthy because both genetic abnormalities are implicated in lymphomagenesis.
Paclitaxel-resistant recurrent gastric cancer responsive to docetaxel: a case report.	We present the case of a 58-year-old man who underwent distal gastrectomy for Stage III A advanced gastric cancer, identified as poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma. He was diagnosed with recurrent peritoneal metastasis 11 months after surgery. S-1(80mg/m / 2)was administered as first-line chemotherapy, followed by weekly paclitaxel(80mg/m2)as secondline chemotherapy. Although a partial response was obtained, a peritoneal tumor in the upper abdomen, ascites, and an elevation in the serum carcinoembryonic antigen(CEA)level were observed. As the tumor proved resistant to paclitaxel, making the treatment ineffective, bi-weekly docetaxel(45mg/m2)was initiated. The tumor showed a partial response, the ascites disappeared, and the serum CEA level decreased. The time to progression was seven months until the appearance of ileus and ascites due to tumor re-growth. This paclitaxel-resistant gastric cancer with peritoneal recurrence proved responsive to docetaxel as third-line chemotherapy. Docetaxel may be active against gastric cancer that is resistant to paclitaxel because of the different effects of these two agents. Further clinical studies on the efficacy of docetaxel against paclitaxel-resistant gastric cancer are needed.
A case of recurrent gastric cancer with lymph node metastasis successfully treated by CPT-11/CDDP therapy]	We report a case ofa 76-year-old man suffering from advanced gastric cancer with lymph node recurrence. Distal gastrectomy was performed for gastric cancer with pylorus stenosis in April 2001. Pathological staging was III A(T3, N1, M0, Cur B). He underwent outpatient treatment with oral administration of UFT 400mg/day as postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy, but stopped after two months because of loss of appetite and general fatigue. Partial liver resection(S4/5)was performed for liver metastasis(S4)in June 2002, and S-1 was administered 80mg/day as adjuvant chemotherapy. However, obstructive jaundice was detected for lymph node recurrence in March 2003, and conducted bile duct stent after PTCD. He started to undergo a biweekly combination chemotherapy of irinotecan (CPT-11)60mg/m / 2 and cisplatin(CDDP)30mg/m2. Three months later, the lymph node had decreased in size. We reduced this therapy, extended the interval, and discontinued it after 24 courses due to adverse reactions, such as leucopenia(grade 3)and general fatigue(grade 2). Afterward, he had no recurrence for over 5 years.
Adjuvant radiation treatment after prostatectomy. Where do we stand?	Prostate cancer is the second most common cause of cancer death in American men. For patients with adverse pathologic features, postoperative radiotherapy to prostate bed after radical prostatectomy has been shown in randomized studies to improve many important clinical endpoints including overall survival. In this review article, we distinguish adjuvant radiation treatment (ART) from salvage radiation treatment (SRT), discuss the evidences for ART and its potential side effects focusing on the debate concerning the optimal timing of post prostatectomy radiation treatment (RT).
High intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU).	Curative treatments for localized prostate cancer, from least invasive to most invasive, include brachytherapy, cryosurgery, three-dimensional conformal radiation therapy, external beam radiation therapy, and radical prostatectomy. A patient with localized, low risk or intermediate risk prostate cancer who is diagnosed at an early age and receives one of these treatments has only an approximately 50% chance of maintaining an undetectable prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level, good spontaneous erections, and total continence by 5 years after treatment.
The efficacy and safety of bortezomib and dexamethasone as a maintenance therapy in patients with advanced multiple myeloma who are responsive to salvage bortezomib-containing regimens.	Although treatment for multiple myeloma (MM) has considerably improved in the past decade, MM continues to be an incurable hematological malignancy that causes most patients to eventually relapse and die from their illness. Thus, the identification of effective salvage strategies remains a priority.
Modified FOLFOX-4 as first-line and salvage treatment in advanced gastric cancer.	Oxaliplatin, leucovorin and fluorouracil combination therapy (FOLFOX) was effective and safe treatment in AGC. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the modified FOLFOX-4 using low dose leucovorin for patients with advanced gastric cancer and analyze the efficacy of this regimen as first-line and salvage treatment.
Salvage total pharyngolaryngectomy and free jejunum transfer.	The objective of this retrospective study was to examine the safety and efficacy of free jejunum transfer after total pharyngolaryngectomy after radiotherapy (RT) or chemoradiotherapy (CRT) to the neck for patients with recurrent or second primary disease.
Bladder preservation using chemoradiation therapy for locally invasive bladder cancer]	We investigated the long-term results and molecular markers of outcome with selective organ preservation in invasive bladder cancer using chemoradiation therapy.
Postoperative radiotherapy in prostate cancer: acquired certainties and still open issues. A review of recent literature.	It is recognized that radiation therapy can eradicate microscopic tumor disease, even in postoperative prostate cancer patients, when extracapsular extension, positive surgical margins or increased prostate-specific antigen is found in surgical specimens. This review of recent literature analyzes and discusses acquired certainties and still open questions regarding type, timing, doses, techniques, toxicities, and associated hormonal therapies of radiotherapy prescribed after radical prostatectomy.
The role of autologous transplantation in Hodgkin lymphoma.	Between 80% and 90% of Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) patients can be cured with up-to-date combined-modality treatments, but patients with disease refractory to first-line therapy and those who relapse after first-line therapy still have a relatively poor prognosis. Dose intensification with stem cell support has been evaluated both to avoid relapses and to cure patients with refractory or relapsed disease. In this review, we focus on the use of high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) in first-line, second-line, and third-line therapy for HL patients. The relevance of salvage therapy before high-dose chemotherapy is discussed, as well as the role of sequential high dose chemotherapy. We also review current evidence for tandem transplantation in high-risk HL patients and ASCT in elderly patients. Finally, we discuss current concepts of ASCT for HL patients and the use of functional imaging and consolidation therapy.
How I treat primary CNS lymphoma.	Primary CNS lymphoma (PCNSL) is a rare malignancy with peculiar clinical and biologic features, aggressive course, and unsatisfactory outcome. It represents a challenge for multidisciplinary clinicians and scientists as therapeutic progress is inhibited by several issues. Molecular and biologic knowledge is incomplete, limiting the identification of new therapeutic targets, and the particular microenvironment of this malignancy, and sanctuary sites where tumor cells grow undisturbed, strongly affects treatment efficacy. Moreover, active treatments are known to be associated with disabling neurotoxicity, posing the dilemma of whether to intensify therapy to improve the cure rate or to de-escalate treatment to avoid sequels. The execution of prospective trials is also difficult because of the rarity of the tumor and the impaired general condition and poor performance status of patients. Thus, level of evidence is low, with consequent uncertainties in therapeutic decisions and lack of consensus on primary endpoints for future trials. Despite this unfavorable background, laboratory and clinical researchers are coordinating efforts to develop new ideas, resulting in the recent publication of studies on PCNSL's biology and molecular mechanisms and of the first international randomized trials. Herein, these important contributions are analyzed to provide recommendations for everyday practice and the rationale for future trials.
Three-year postoperative ultrasensitive prostate-specific antigen following open radical retropubic prostatectomy is a predictor for delayed biochemical recurrence.	Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is the only independent predictor of biochemical recurrence (BCR) following radical prostatectomy (RP) subject to change over time.
Outcome analysis of invasive aspergillosis in hematologic malignancy and hematopoietic stem cell transplant patients: the role of novel antimold azoles.	Invasive aspergillosis (IA) continues to be a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in hematologic malignancy (HM) patients. We evaluated the prognostic factors for IA in HM patients.
Salvage radiotherapy for prostate-specific antigen relapse after radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer: a single-center experience.	The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and prognostic factors of salvage radiotherapy for prostate-specific antigen relapse after radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer at a single center in Japan.
Bortezomib as rescue therapy for antibody mediated rejection: a single-center experience.	Case series have reported the use of bortezomib for treatment of primary and refractory treatment of cell-mediated acute rejection. The purpose of this article is to review a single-center experience with bortezomib used to treat humoral rejection in four transplant recipients. All patients received bortezomib after suffering antibody-mediated rejection refractory to intravenous immunoglobulin and plasmapheresis. Each patient had improved renal function after bortezomib treatment, biopsies became c4d negative in three of the four patients and the level of donor specific antibody reduction was mixed. Adverse drug events were not encountered, although two patients suffered infections, H1N1 pneumonia and cytomegalovirus colitis. In conclusion, these four cases demonstrate the promising use of bortezomib as rescue therapy for antibody mediated rejection. Future research is needed to explore the impact of bortezomib on HLA removal, histological reversal of rejection, and long-term graft function after transplantation.
A retrospective study of salvage surgery for recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma.	Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is sensitive to radiotherapy. When there is local relapse, re-irradiation treatment is inevitably associated with serious complications and decreased quality of life. Surgical resection offers an alternative treatment option with acceptable morbidity.
High-dose ifosfamide as second- or third-line chemotherapy in refractory bone and soft tissue sarcoma patients.	For patients with refractory bone and soft tissue sarcoma (STS), treatment options have been limited. Ifosfamide is an alkylating agent with well-demonstrated efficacy against STS, and dose-dependent activity. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the response rate, progression-free survival (PFS), progression-free rate (PFR), and median duration of response to high-dose ifosfamide (HDI) as at least second-line chemotherapy for patients with advanced bone sarcoma and STS.
Sustained platelet-sparing effect of weekly low dose paclitaxel allows effective, tolerable delivery of extended dose dense weekly carboplatin in platinum resistant/refractory epithelial ovarian cancer.	Platinum agents have shown demonstrable activity in the treatment of patients with platinum resistant, recurrent ovarian cancer when delivered in a "dose-dense" fashion. However, the development of thrombocytopenia limits the weekly administration of carboplatin to no greater than AUC 2. Paclitaxel has a well-described platelet sparing effect however its use to explicitly provide thromboprotection in the context of dose dense carboplatin has not been explored.
A case of multiple metastases breast cancer controlled using S-1 as third-line chemotherapy]	A 42-year-old female underwent surgery for cancer of the left breast (T3N2M0) in February 2003, and FEC 70, followed by CMF, was administered as adjuvant therapy. In January 2009, second-line chemotherapy with weekly paclitaxel therapy was started after multiple pleural and bone metastatic lesions had been found. Despite this treatment, she required radiation therapy for the growth of bone metastatic lesions. As paclitaxel apparently had no useful effect on the lesions, S-1 chemotherapy, given as third-line therapy starting in December 2009, was considered useful for disease control without progression demonstrated by PET evaluation.
ABVD versus BEACOPP for Hodgkin's lymphoma when high-dose salvage is planned.	BEACOPP, an intensified regimen consisting of bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone, has been advocated as the new standard of treatment for advanced Hodgkin's lymphoma, in place of the combination of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD).
Treatment of patients with relapsed and/or cisplatin-refractory metastatic germ cell tumours: an update.	Since the introduction of cisplatin-based therapy in the late 1970s, germ cell tumours (GCT) have been one of the successes in oncology with high cure rates even in patients presenting with metastatic disease. For patients with relapse after cisplatin-based therapy, treatment is still curative in approximately 50% of the cases. Management options for these patients include surgery, radiotherapy and use of conventional dose or high-dose chemotherapy (HDCT). Therefore, treatment of relapsed or refractory patients is complex and there is no uniformly accepted approach available. Data comparing conventional dose and HDCT in the first salvage therapy is limited to one randomized trial which was not able to ultimately define optimal treatment. More recently, a large retrospective analysis of nearly 1600 patients not only identified prognostic factors in relapse, but retrospectively suggested a 10-15% benefit regarding overall survival for patients receiving HDCT plus autologous stem cell transplantation over patients receiving conventional-dose chemotherapy. Prognosis in multiply relapsed and primary cisplatin-refractory patients is generally poor. Currently, a number of mechanisms of cisplatin resistance and potential drug targets like global methylation and BRAF mutation status are under investigation in refractory GCT.
Transrectal high-intensity focused ultrasound for local treatment of prostate cancer: current role.	Attractivity of robotic high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) is based largely on the non-invasive, extremely precise nature of this high-tech robotic therapy as well as its clean, radiation free, surgical, but nevertheless, bloodless character. Today, in urological oncology, HIFU is used clinically as a therapeutic tool for the treatment of prostate cancer. Experimentally it is investigated for therapeutic use in kidney and breast cancer. Transrectal treatment of localized prostate cancer with HIFU has been under investigation since the 1990s and it is meanwhile an actively used therapy for the disease in many urological departments worldwide. Since 2000 HIFU is mostly used in combination with transurethral resection of the prostate in order to reduce prostate gland size, to facilitate effective tissue destruction and to avoid side effects. Palliative and salvage indications as well as focal therapy of prostate cancer are under investigation to extend the spectrum of HIFU indications for non invasive prostate cancer therapy.
Photodynamic therapy as salvage treatment for local failure after chemoradiotherapy in patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: a phase II study.	Local failure at the primary site is a major problem after chemoradiotherapy (CRT) in patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Salvage surgery is the only treatment option with curative intent, but it is associated with high morbidity and mortality. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of salvage photodynamic therapy (PDT) after CRT. Patients with histologically proven local failure limited to the submucosal layer, and without any metastasis after definitive CRT (50 Gy) for ESCC were enrolled in the study. PDT began with intravenous administration of 2 mg/kg of porfimer sodium followed 48-72 hr later by excimer dye laser irradiation with a fluence of 75 J/cm2. The primary endpoint was a complete response (CR) to treatment with PDT, and the secondary endpoints were toxicity related to PDT, progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). Twenty-five patients were enrolled in the study. A CR was attained in 19 of 25 patients treated with PDT (CR rate, 76%; 95% CI, 55-91%). One treatment-related death (4%) caused by gastrointestinal hemorrhage at the irradiated site occurred 33 days after PDT. No adverse events greater than grade 3 were related to PDT in the other patients. After a median follow-up of 48 months after PDT, the PFS and OS at 3 years were 40% (95% CI, 21-59%) and 38% (95% CI, 17-60%), respectively. PDT is a potentially curative and tolerable salvage treatment after CRT for carefully selected patients with local failure without any metastasis.
Infectious complications in adult acute myeloid leukemia: analysis of the Acute Leukemia French Association-9802 prospective multicenter clinical trial.	Infections are a major complication in patients with acute myeloid leukemia undergoing intensive chemotherapy. They remain a major cause of therapy-associated morbidity and mortality, and represent a frequent cause of treatment withdrawal. An analysis of the medical charts of 459 younger adults included in the multicenter Acute Leukemia French Association (ALFA)-9802 trial showed that 1369 febrile episodes occurred among the 459 registered patients, including fever without identifiable source (23%) and clinically or microbiologically documented infections (77%). Bloodstream infections occurred in 314 episodes, including 129 documented episodes with Gram-positive and 96 with Gram-negative pathogens. Pulmonary infection was diagnosed in 144/1054 documented infectious episodes (14%). Invasive fungal infection was probable or proven in 116 patients. In all, 15 patients died of infection-associated complications, of whom seven died during early induction therapy, one during salvage therapy and seven during consolidation therapy. Better supportive care strategies may improve overall survival in patients undergoing chemotherapy for acute myeloid leukemia.
Cilengitide in bevacizumab-refractory high-grade glioma:  two case reports and critical review of the literature.	High-grade gliomas (HGG) are aggressive and highly vascularized brain tumours. Despite multimodality therapy including surgery, radiation therapy and in many cases temozolomide chemotherapy, the prognosis is dismal. Salvage therapies following progression after radiation therapy and chemotherapy have historically yielded disappointing results. Bevacizumab is an interesting antiangiogenic drug used as a second-line treatment but although most patients benefit, essentially all patients ultimately progress. Moreover, some clinical studies have documented low activity of a second attempt at vascular endothelial growth factor pathway inhibition after failure of a first. The use of another drug with a different angiogenic pathway inhibition may probably result in a higher activity. Here, we describe, to our knowledge for the first time, the activity and safety of cilengitide, an agent with a different antiangiogenic and anti-invasive activity, administered in two bevacizumab-refractory patients with HGG. In addition, we present a rapid review of the activity of cilengitide in HGG.
Rescue treatment with tocilizumab for Takayasu arteritis resistant to TNF- blockers.	Anti-TNF- therapy has successfully been used to treat Takayasu arteritis (TA) refractory to conventional immunosuppressive treatment. However, some patients fail to respond even to TNF- blockers. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a key player in the pathogenesis of TA. Preliminary data also suggest efficacy of the IL-6 receptor inhibitor tocilizumab in patients with large-vessel vasculitis. We report a patient with TA refractory to multiple conventional immunosuppressive agents and two TNF- blockers successfully treated with monthly tocilizumab infusions (8 mg/kg body weight) for 6 consecutive months. Clinical indices of disease activity, inflammatory markers, and 18Ffluorodeoxyglucose positron emission/computerised tomography findings normalised, while the prednisone dosage could be tapered. Serum IL-6 and soluble IL-6 receptor (sIL-6R) levels raised during tocilizumab treatment consistent with the mode of action of tocilizumab. Tocilizumab holds promise for patients with refractory TA. Larger studies are required to confirm our findings.
Current status of salvage robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy for radiorecurrent prostate cancer.	Radiation therapy (RT) is one of the treatment options for prostate cancer (PCa). Transperineal low-dose rate brachytherapy (BT) is another safe and effective technique for low-risk PCa. Recurrence after RT for localized PCa can be defined by a PSA value of 2 ng/mL above the nadir after RT, and biochemical recurrence (BCR) rate after RT is 40-60 %. In case of radiorecurrent PCa, treatment options include salvage radical prostatectomy (RP), cryotherapy, high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), and salvage BT. Only salvage RP has cancer control results for over 10-year follow-up in a substantial portion of patients (30-40 %). However, salvage RP is technically demanding, and experienced surgeons are needed; in fact, RT-induced cystitis, fibrosis, and tissue plane obliteration can lead to significant complications, such as rectal injuries, anastomotic stricture, and urinary incontinence. This review describes indications, oncologic and functional outcomes, surgical techniques, and complications of salvage robot-assisted RP.
Clofarabine-based chemotherapy for relapsed/refractory adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia and lymphoblastic lymphoma. The Spanish experience.	The present study reports the Spanish PETHEMA group experience in 31 heavily pretreated relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and lymphoma (LL) patients treated with clofarabine-based regimens. The complete remission (CR) rate was 31% (median CR duration of 3 months [range 228]) and the overall survival probability at 1 year was 10% (95%CI 416%). Responses were seen in B and T lineage diseases and in patients with adverse cytogenetics. Hematological and infectious grade >3 toxicities were found in 100 and 67% of the patients, respectively, with 7 (23%) treatment-related deaths. Other organ toxicities were infrequent. Clofarabine-based chemotherapy regimens might induce CRs in ALL and LL patients, but hematological toxicity and infections may limit their use in heavily pretreated patients.
A false aneurysm.	We report a case of a remaining hemi-thyroid following laryngectomy, which was misinterpreted as a pseudoaneurysm.
Vascularized free tissue transfer for reconstruction of ablative defects in oral and oropharyngeal cancer patients undergoing salvage surgery following concomitant chemoradiation.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether chemotherapy delivered concurrently with external beam radiation therapy for loco-regionally advanced head and neck cancer affects the rate or severity of postoperative complications in patients who underwent salvage surgery for recurrent or persistent disease with simultaneous microvascular free flap reconstruction. The primary study group consisted of patients with head and neck malignancies that had undergone surgical salvage with microvascular free flap reconstruction for persistent or recurrent disease following definitive radiation or concomitant chemoradiation treatment. A group of demographically matched patients who underwent microvascular free flap reconstruction for non-malignant and malignant conditions who never received radiation were randomly selected to serve as a control group. The study cohort was divided according to radiation treatment. The overall success rate of flap reconstruction was 92%, with an overall complication rate of 23%. Concurrently administered chemotherapy did not appear to affect the type of or the complication rate. The results of this investigation indicate that microvascular free flap reconstruction of head and neck defects is highly predictable, results in relatively few major complications, and suggests that neither radiation alone nor concomitant chemoradiation has a statistically significant effect on overall flap survival or complication rate.
Reduced-intensity conditioning in unrelated donor cord blood transplantation for familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis.	Familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (FHL) is a disorder of immune homeostasis characterized by fever, cytopenias, hepatosplenomegaly, and coagulopathy. We studied the outcomes of 13 FHL patients who underwent the first unrelated cord blood transplantation (UCBT) after non-myeloablative conditionings. The major regimen consisted of fludarabine (FLU; n = 12)+melphalan (MEL; n = 11) low-dose total body irradiation (TBI 2-4 Gy; n = 6). The median age at presentation and period to UCBT were 6 and 5 months, respectively. Central nervous system (CNS) disease developed in one infant at diagnosis, and in two others until UCBT. HLH activity was controlled in all but one at the time of UCBT. Ten patients had early engraftment on median day 21 with no grade >2 treatment-related toxicity and two controllable grade >2 acute GVHD. Two patients with early rejection successfully underwent subsequent UCBT after myeloablative conditioning. Two others had late graft failure following mixed donor chimerism. Two deaths occurred from HLH; early liver failure and late CNS disease. Of 11 FLU+MEL-conditioned patients, the frequency of disease-free complete engraftment was higher for MEL (120 mg/m(2) )+TBI, or high-dose MEL (180 mg/m(2) ) than for others (83% vs. 25%, p = 0.036). The FLU+MEL-based non-myeloablative regimen was acceptable for FHL infants undergoing UCBT, although further studies will be needed for confirmation.
Efficacy of lenalidomide plus dexamethasone for POEMS syndrome relapsed after autologous peripheral stem-cell transplantation.	POEMS syndrome is a rare paraneoplastic condition associated to an underlying plasmacellular dyscrasia. The pathogenesis of POEMS is poorly understood, but overproduction of VEGF, probably secreted by clonal plasma cells, is thought to be responsible for the signs and symptoms of the syndrome, and it seems to be useful for the monitoring of the response to therapy. At present, an effective therapeutic option for the patients is represented by autologous peripheral blood stem-cell transplantation (aPBSCT), although relapses have been described, and there is an important morbidity associated with this procedure. Before the implementation of aPBSCT, the clinical course of POEMS syndrome was characterized by progressive polyneuropathy potentially leading to death for respiratory failure. Given the high serum and plasma levels of VEGF observed in POEMS patients, the use of anti-angiogenetic drugs such as thalidomide and lenalidomide and other drugs with anti-VEGF and anti-TNF effect such as bortezomib have been considered to treat this syndrome. There are evidences of lenalidomide benefit in both front-line and previously treated patients, but scanty data are available about its use for relapse after aPBSCT. Here, we report the successful use of lenalidomide in a patient who relapsed after aPBSCT.
Screening for distant metastases before salvage surgery in patients with recurrent head and neck squamous cell carcinoma: a retrospective case series comparing thoraco-abdominal CT, positron emission tomography and abdominal ultrasound.	 To evaluate the role of 18-fluoro-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) scan for detecting distant metastases in the preoperative assessment of patients with recurrent head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).
Critical appraisal of the 'wait and see' approach in rectal cancer for clinical complete responders after chemoradiation.	Some 10-20 per cent of patients with locally advanced rectal cancer achieve a pathological complete response (pCR) at surgery following preoperative chemoradiation (CRT). Some demonstrate a sustained clinical complete response (cCR), defined as absence of clinically detectable residual tumour after CRT, and do not undergo resection. The aim of this review was to evaluate non-operative treatment of rectal cancer after CRT, and the outcome of patients observed without radical surgery.
Mantle cell lymphoma: 2012 update on diagnosis, risk-stratification, and clinical management.	Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is a non-Hodgkin lymphoma characterized by involvement of the lymph nodes, spleen, blood, and bone marrow with a short remission duration to standard therapies and a median overall survival of 4-5 years.
Treatment of relapsed/refractory germ cell tumours: an equipoise between conventional and high dose therapy.	Patients with relapsed germ cell tumors (GCT) are potentially curable despite the failure of initial cisplatin based therapy. The recent identification of robust prognostic markers has helped clarify this area of uncertainty. However, unlike the initial treatment of metastatic disease where cisplatin based combination therapy is standard of care, there is no consensus on treatment in the relapsed setting. Instead there is a genuine equipoise between high dose therapy (HDCT) and conventional dose therapy (CDCT) in this relapsed setting. The randomised data fails to support the use of HDCT although retrospective analysis consistently shows it may be superior, especially if tandem or triple high dose therapy is used. This has resulted in different approaches worldwide with some stating HDCT should not be used outside of a trial and others suggesting it is standard of care. Re-challenging relapsed patients with conventional dose cisplatin based therapy would seem to be counterintuitive, but the addition of drugs such as ifosamide and paclitaxel results in genuine activated in selected patients with relapsed disease. This appears particularly relevant as HDCT is associated with significant morbidity and mortality, which was highlighted in a randomised trial. However large single institution data suggests this treatment related toxicity may not be such as concern and treatment related mortality can be as low as only 3 % in selected centres. Overall there is a need to answer this question of CDCT v.s. HSCT definitively. For this reason a prospective global randomised trial (TIGER trial) comparing conventional dose therapy (paclitaxel, ifosamide and cisplatin [TIP]) and triple high dose therapy (paclitaxel and ifosamide followed by high dose carboplatin and etoposide [TI CE]) is planned for 2012 (TIGER trial). Due to the rarity of this disease and complexities associated with a global trial, this study faces many challenges. Nevertheless it is hoped that it will finally address this area major of uncertainty in GCTs.
Fatal ALK-negative systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma presenting with disseminated cutaneous dome-shaped papules and nodules.	Anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) is classified as a CD30 positive non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Systemic ALCL (S-ALCL) is further subdivided into two subgroups based on anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) expression. In systemic ALCL, positive ALK expression correlates with a favorable prognosis, whereas negative ALK expression correlates with poorer overall survival. By definition, primary cutaneous ALCL (cut-ALCL) is limited to the skin and is uniformly ALK-negative. Cut-ALCL closely resembles LyP with regards to its benign clinical course and CD30 positivity. We describe a unique case of ALK-negative (ALK-) S-ALCL presenting with cutaneous disseminated dome-shaped papules.
Prevention and management of graft thrombosis in pancreatic transplant.	Pancreatic transplant effectively cures type 1 diabetes mellitus and maintains consistent long-term euglycemia. However, technical failure, and in particular graft thrombosis, accounts for the vast majority of transplants lost in the early postoperative period. The pancreas' inherently low microvascular flow state makes it vulnerable to vascular complications, as does the hypercoagulable blood of diabetic patients. Ultimately, the phenomenon is most definitely multifactorial. Prevention, as opposed to treatment, is key and should focus on reducing these multiple risk factors. This will involve tactical donor selection, optimal surgical technique and some form of anticoagulation. Close monitoring and early intervention will be crucial when treating thrombosis once preventative methods have failed. This may be achieved by further anticoagulation, graft salvage, or pancreatectomy with retransplant. This article will explore the multiple factors contributing to graft thrombus formation and the ways in which they may be addressed to firstly prevent, or more likely, reduce thrombosis. Secondly, we will consider the management strategies which can be implemented once thrombosis has occurred.
An open-label phase 2 study of twice-weekly bortezomib and intermittent pegylated liposomal doxorubicin in patients with ovarian cancer failing platinum-containing regimens.	Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) is an established treatment for relapsed ovarian cancer. Preclinical and clinical evidences in other tumor types suggest that the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib can act synergistically with PLD.
Salvage of failed resection arthroplasties of the distal radioulnar joint using an ulnar head prosthesis: long-term results.	The aim of this prospective multicenter study was to evaluate the long-term outcome of the Herbert ulnar head prosthesis for painful instability of the distal radioulnar joint (DRUJ) following resection of the ulnar head.
Vertical partial laryngectomy with temporoparietal free flap reconstruction for recurrent laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma: technique and long-term outcomes.	To present a technique for reconstruction of the vertical partial laryngectomy defect using a vascularized carrier consisting of a temporoparietal free flap, cartilage graft, and buccal mucosal graft; to evaluate the oncologic outcomes with respect to locoregional control and overall survival; and to provide an assessment of patient quality of life and functional outcomes.
Salvage liver transplantation in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma: a meta-analysis.	To evaluate survival and recurrence after salvage liver transplantation (SLT) for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) compared with primary liver transplantation (PLT) using a meta-analysis.
Two phase 2 trials of the novel Akt inhibitor perifosine in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma after progression on vascular endothelial growth factor-targeted therapy.	The clinical activity of allosteric inhibitors of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) may be limited by upstream activation of phosphatidylinositol 3 (PI3)-kinase/Akt resulting from mTOR1 inhibition. On the basis of this rationale, 2 independent phase 2 trials (Perifosine 228 and 231) were conducted to assess the efficacy and safety of the novel Akt inhibitor perifosine in patients with advanced RCC who had failed on previous vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-targeted therapy.
Gefitinib versus pemetrexed as second-line treatment in patients with nonsmall cell lung cancer previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy (KCSG-LU08-01): an open-label, phase 3 trial.	Gefitinib was compared with pemetrexed as second-line therapy in a clinically selected population previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy.
Patients with osteosarcoma with a single pulmonary nodule on computed tomography: a single-institution experience.	The purpose of this study is to determine if patients with osteosarcoma (OS) with metachronous metastatic pulmonary disease presenting with a single pulmonary nodule (SPN) on computed tomography (CT) were found to have other lesions at the time of thoracotomy.
A case of response to panitumumab as third-line chemotherapy for multiple liver metastases and portal venal tumor embolus of rectal cancer]	A 64-year-old man who underwent rectal amputation for rectal cancer was diagnosed with multiple liver metastases and tumor embolus in the portal vein 6 months after operation. Though the patient underwent chemotherapy, mFOLFOX6, and bevacizumab+FOLFIRI, liver metastases were diagnosed as progressive disease (PD). After panitumumab+FOLFIRI was administered for three months as third-line chemotherapy, the tumor embolus completely disappeared, and liver metastases became cytoreductive on CT. The patient was judged to have achieved a partial response (PR). This case indicated that panitumumab was effective as third-line chemotherapy for unresectable recurrent rectal cancer.
A systematic analysis of efficacy of second-line chemotherapy in sensitive and refractory small-cell lung cancer.	Small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) patients unresponsive or relapsing within 90 days after frontline chemotherapy have poor prognosis and are treated with regimens different from the first-line regimen. Potential differences in the efficacy of second-line therapy for refractory and sensitive SCLC have not been well studied.
Antibiotic impregnated cement spacer for salvage of diabetic osteomyelitis.	Florid infection and osteomyelitis of the forefoot in patients with diabetic neuropathy often requires minor amputation, with risk of subsequent reulceration, reamputation, and patient dissatisfaction. We investigated use of an antibiotic-impregnated cement spacer (ACS) to release antibiotic locally to resolve residual infection and to fill the cavity created by debridement.
Comparison of rifabutin- and levofloxacin-based third-line rescue therapies for Helicobacter pylori]	There is increasing need for third-line therapy of Helicobacter pylori due to increasing level of antibiotics resistance. The aim of this study was to compare rifabutin and levofloxacin rescue regimens in patients with first- and second-line Helicobacter pylori eradication failures.
Cisplatin-ifosfamide combination chemotherapy in metastatic triple-negative, anthracycline- and taxane-pretreated breast cancer patients; a phase II study.	The purpose of this study was to prospectively evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of cisplatin and ifosfamide combination chemotherapy in metastatic triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) previously treated with anthracyclines and taxanes.
Renal denervation in resistant hypertension: proposal for a common multidisciplinary attitude]	The prevalence of resistant hypertension ranges between 5-30%. Patients with resistant hypertension are at increased risk of cardiovascular events. Radiofrequency renal denervation is a recent and promising technique that can be used in the setting of resistant hypertension. However, long-term safety and efficacy data are lacking and evidence to use this procedure outside the strict setting of resistant hypertension is missing. The aim of the article is to propose a common work-up for nephrologists, hypertensiologists, cardiologists and interventional radiologists in order to avoid inappropriate selection of patients and a possible misuse of this procedure.
Pemetrexed for previously treated patients with non-small cell lung cancer and differences in efficacy according to thymidylate synthase expression.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of pemetrexed monotherapy in previously treated patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) including salvage treatment, and to evaluate whether thymidylate synthase (TS) expression is a predictor for pemetrexed efficacy. Hundred and four previously treated patients with advanced NSCLC who received pemetrexed monotherapy were retrospectively evaluated for clinical efficacy and toxicity. If available, tissue specimens of patients were also analyzed immunohistochemically for TS expression. The patients' median age was 65 years (range: 43-82). An overall response rate of 9.6% and a median progression-free survival (PFS) time of 3.4 months were achieved. The response rates for the second-line, third-line, fourth-line or further treatments were 9.1, 9.3 and 10.2% (p = 0.33); the median PFS were 3.3, 3.2 and 3.8 months (p = 0.21). The median follow-up duration was 14.9 months; the median overall survival (OS) was 11.9 months. The median PFS and OS were significantly longer in the TS-negative group than in the TS-positive group (5.8 months vs. 1.6 months; p = 0.03, and 14.7 months vs. 8.6 months; p = 0.04, respectively). Pemetrexed monotherapy could be considered as an option in the fourth or later lines of treatment of previously treated patients with advanced NSCLC as well as a second- or third-line treatment, and TS expression may be a potentially predictive factor for pemetrexed efficacy in NSCLC patients.
Perforation of the nasal septum: a rare complication of bevacizumab]	Neovascularisation is a hallmark of cancer. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is directly involved in the regulation of this tumoural neoangiogenesis, especially in lung cancer. Bevacizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody targeting VEGF that is commonly used in thoracic oncology. Among the side effects, perforation of the nasal septum is rare.
Complete response after neoadjuvant therapy in rectal cancer: to operate or not to operate?	Evidence exists to support both surgical and nonoperative observational approaches to the management of patients with distal rectal cancer who achieve a complete response following neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (CRT). This article summarizes findings from key studies on management strategies for complete pathologic and clinical responders after neoadjuvant CRT for rectal cancer.
Local treatment options for ipsilateral breast tumour recurrence.	In case of ipsilateral breast tumour recurrence (IBTR), radical mastectomy represents the treatment option frequently proposed. A second conservative treatment (2ndCT) has been proposed using either lumpectomy alone or associated with a re-irradiation of the tumor bed. However, in both clinical situations, the proof level of such therapeutic approaches remains low, based on cased-series or retrospective studies (level C).
High dose salvage therapy with dose intensive cyclophosphamide, etoposide and cisplatin may increase transplant rates for relapsed/refractory aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma.	Only one-quarter to one-third of patients with relapsed/refractory aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma (r/r-aNHL) treated with common salvage chemotherapy regimens and autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) achieve 5-year progression-free survival (PFS). Worse outcomes have been reported after failure of prior rituximab-containing induction, initial time to progression (TTP) < 1 year or age-adjusted International Prognostic Index (aaIPI) = 2-3 at relapse. In Calgary, we have treated patients with r/r-aNHL with dose-intensive cyclophosphamide 5.25 g/m(2), etoposide 1.05 g/m(2) and cisplatin 105 mg/m(2) (DICEP) for both re-induction therapy and autologous blood stem cell mobilization. In this study we retrospectively analyzed 113 consecutive transplant-eligible patients with r/r-aNHL who received one cycle of DICEP (n = 93) or R-DICEP (n = 20) from 1995 to 2009. Patient characteristics included: median age = 49 years (22-69); TTP < 1 year = 85; elevated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) = 60; Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (ECOG) 2-4 = 42; aaIPI 2-3 = 59; bulk > 10 cm = 26, prior rituximab = 27. The median number of CD34 + cells collected was 19  10(6)/kg (0.3-142), 83.5% responded and 90% (102) proceeded to ASCT. The 5-year PFS rate was 42% for all patients, 32% for those with relapse aaIPI = 2-3, 35% for initial TTP < 1 year and 56% for those who failed initial rituximab induction. In conclusion, (R)DICEP is an effective re-induction regimen for r/r-aNHL, leading to excellent stem cell mobilization, a high chance of proceeding to ASCT and encouraging long-term PFS rates.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia in adults: encouraging developments on the way to higher cure rates.	Conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy for adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is not adequate to cure most patients of the disease. Complete remission is achieved in the majority of patients, but responses are often not durable. Allogeneic stem cell transplant is used for patients with high risk features, including those who are positive for minimal residual disease after induction and consolidation therapy. Nevertheless, transplant is a toxic intervention, and does not guarantee long-term disease-free survival. Monoclonal antibodies target surface antigens present on leukemic blasts, with the aim of minimizing off-target toxicity. Rituximab, an antibody directed against CD20, prolongs the survival of younger adults with ALL when added to chemotherapy in the frontline setting. Novel agents, such as the cytotoxin-antibody conjugate inotuzumab, and the bispecific T-cell engaging compound blinatumomab, have exhibited marked antileukemic activity in the relapsed setting. As these agents continue in clinical development, it will be important to eventually incorporate them in the frontline treatment approach. We review current strategies for treating adult ALL, with a focus on novel and targeted therapies that are under development.
Long-term outcomes comparing surgery to embolization-ablation for treatment of solitary HCC<7 cm.	Resection has been the standard of care for patients with solitary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Transarterial embolization and percutaneous ablation are alternative therapies often reserved for suboptimal surgical candidates. Here we compare long-term outcomes of patients with solitary HCC treated with resection versus combined embo-ablation.
Hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy in five daily fractions for post-operative surgical cavities in brain metastases patients with and without prior whole brain radiation.	Our purpose was to report efficacy of hypofractionated cavity stereotactic radiotherapy (HCSRT) in patients with and without prior whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT). 32 surgical cavities in 30 patients (20 patients/21 cavities had no prior WBRT and 10 patients/11 cavities had prior WBRT) were treated with image-guided linac stereotactic radiotherapy. 7 of the 10 prior WBRT patients had "resistant" local disease given prior surgery, post-operative WBRT and a re-operation, followed by salvage HCSRT. The clinical target volume was the post-surgical cavity, and a 2-mm margin applied as planning target volume. The median total dose was 30 Gy (range: 25-37.5 Gy) in 5 fractions. In the no prior and prior WBRT cohorts, the median follow-up was 9.7 months (range: 3.0-23.6) and 15.3 months (range: 2.9-39.7), the median survival was 23.6 months and 39.7 months, and the 1-year cavity local recurrence progression- free survival (LRFS) was 79 and 100%, respectively. At 18 months the LRFS dropped to 29% in the prior WBRT cohort. Grade 3 radiation necrosis occurred in 3 prior WBRT patients. We report favorable outcomes with HCSRT, and well selected patients with prior WBRT and "resistant" disease may have an extended survival favoring aggressive salvage HCSRT at a moderate risk of radiation necrosis. 
Initial outcome after selective intraarterial radionuclide therapy with yttrium-90 microspheres as salvage therapy for unresectable metastatic liver disease.	The aim of the study was to retrospectively evaluate the potential benefit on survival outcomes of selective intraarterial radionuclide therapy (SIRT) with Yttrium-90 microspheres as a salvage therapy in liver metastasis of different tumors.
Whole-gland ablation of localized prostate cancer with high-intensity focused ultrasound: oncologic outcomes and morbidity in 1002 patients.	High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) is a nonsurgical therapy for selected patients with localized prostate cancer (PCa).
Tumor associated macrophages in relapsed and refractory Hodgkin lymphoma.	Growing evidence demonstrates that an increased number of CD68 positive tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) is associated with decreased survival in patients with newly diagnosed classic Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). However, the impact of TAM in relapsed and refractory disease is unknown.
Exclusive radiotherapy for stage T1-T2N0M0 lanryngeal cancer: retrospective study of 59 patients at CFB and CHU de Caen.	Study of patients with stage T1N0M0 or T2N0M0 glottic cancer treated by exclusive radiotherapy and comparison of the survival and functional results of this series with those of the literature.
Ankle dorsiflexion arthrodesis to salvage Chopart's amputation with anterior skin insufficiency.	In Chopart-level amputations the heel often deviates into equinus and varus when, due to the lack of healthy anterior soft tissue, rebalancing tendon transfers to the talar head are not possible. Consequently, anterior and lateral wound dehiscence and ulceration may occur requiring higher-level amputation to achieve wound closure, with considerable loss of function for the patients.
Esophagectomy for failed endoscopic therapy in patients with high-grade dysplasia or intramucosal carcinoma.	Endoscopic therapy (ablation +/- endoscopic resection) for high-grade dysplasia and/or intramucosal carcinoma (IMC) of the esophagus has demonstrated promising results. However, there is a concern that a curable, local disease may progress to systemic disease with repeated endotherapy. We performed a retrospective review of patients who underwent esophagectomy after endotherapy at three tertiary care esophageal centers from 2006 to 2012. Our objective was to document the clinical and pathologic outcomes of patients who undergo esophagectomy after failed endotherapy. Fifteen patients underwent esophagectomy after a mean of 13months and 4.1 sessions of endotherapy for progression of disease (53%), failure to clear disease (33%), or recurrence (13%). Initially, all had Barrett's, 73% had 3-cm segments, 93% had a nodule or ulcer, and 91% had multifocal disease upon presentation. High-grade dysplasia was present at index endoscopy in 80% and IMC in 33%, and some patients had both. Final pathology at esophagectomy was T0 (13%), T1a (60%), T1b (20%), and T2 (7%). Positive lymph nodes were found in 20%: one patient was T2N1 and two were T1bN1. Patients with T1b, T2, or N1 disease had more IMC on index endoscopy (75% vs. 18%) and more endotherapy sessions (median 6.5 vs. 3). There have been no recurrences a mean of 20months after esophagectomy. Clinical outcomes were comparable to other series, but submucosal invasion (27%) and node-positive disease (20%) were encountered in some patients who initially presented with a locally curable disease and eventually required esophagectomy after failed endotherapy. An initial pathology of IMC or failure to clear disease after three treatments should raise concern for loco-regional progression and prompt earlier consideration of esophagectomy. 
National guidelines for the management of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Sociedad Espanola de Hematologa y Hemoterapia and Grupo Espanol de Leucemia Linfoctica Cro nica]	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is the most common chronic lymphoproliferative disorder in Spain. The clinical management of this entity varies widely. Currently, in Spain, there are no national consensus guidelines, such as those published in other countries, to guide the diagnosis and treatment of this malignancy and the use of prognostic scores. This article reviews the current scientific literature and addresses issues on the diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, the spread of the disease, the presence of comorbidities, the classification of prognostic scores, the common treatment regimens stratified by risk factors, and the management of complications associated with both the disease and its treatment, as well as the various controversies related to this entity. This document was drafted with the collaboration of national experts and aims to establish practical guidelines with their corresponding levels of evidence and grades of recommendation to guide the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. 
Modified cisplatin, etoposide, and ifosfamide (PEI) salvage therapy for male germ cell tumors: long-term efficacy and safety outcomes.	Since 1985, we introduced a modified combination of etoposide, ifosfamide, and cisplatin (PEI) as second-line therapy of adult male germ cell tumors with the aim to reduce toxic effect while maintaining efficacy over the original regimen.
Valve-in-valve implantation for aortic annular rupture complicating transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR).	An 83-year-old woman with multiple comorbidities and severe aortic stenosis presented with recurrent pulmonary edema. In light of her high surgical risk, a percutaneous strategy for her aortic stenosis was decided. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement using a balloon-expandable Edwards Sapien XT valve was performed under rapid ventricular pacing. Soon after valve deployment, the patient went into hemodynamic collapse due to annular root rupture with pericardial tamponade, necessitating urgent pericardial decompression. Using a valve-in-valve technique, with the deployment of a second Edward Sapien XT valve inside the first valve, the annular root rupture was successfully sealed leading to hemodynamic recovery. 
Phase II study of TAS-106 in patients with platinum-failure recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer and nasopharyngeal cancer.	TAS-106, a RNA polymerase inhibitor, was studied in solid tumors with potential clinical benefit and reasonable tolerability. We conducted a multicenter, international phase II trial of TAS-106 in salvage metastatic or recurrent head and neck squamous cell cancer (HNSCC) and nasopharyngeal cancer (NPC) patients. TAS-106 monotherapy was given at 6.5 mg/m(2) over 24-h continuous infusion every 3 weeks. Translational studies for blood and tissue were included. Twenty-seven enrolled patients experienced the most common drug-related adverse events of neutropenia, fatigue, non-neutropenic fever, injection site reaction, and skin rash/dermatitis. The greater than or equal to grade 3 adverse events included neutropenia (14.8%), febrile neutropenia (7.4%), pneumonia (7.4%), and peripheral neuropathy (3.7%). The overall response rate was 0% in both subgroups; five HNSCC patients had stable disease (median duration 99 days) and four NPC patients had stable disease (median duration of 92.5 days). Median progression-free survival (PFS) for HNSCC patients was 52 days (95% CI 43.0-99.0 days) and 48 days (95% CI 41.0-83.0 days) for NPC. Median overall survival (OS) for HNSCC patients was 175 days (95% CI 92.0-234.0 days) and 280 days (95% CI 107.0-462.0 days) for NPC. The TAS-106 plasma levels were equivalent between Asian and Caucasian patients. There was no significant correlation of tumor UCK2 protein expression levels to TAS-106 efficacy. TAS-106 was reasonably tolerated in patients with platinum-failure HNSCC and NPC. The administration schedule of 24-h continuous infusion prevented neurologic toxicity, but had myelosuppression as its main toxicity. There was no anti-tumor efficacy seen with TAS-106 monotherapy. Future studies will focus on TAS-106 combinations and mechanisms of drug resistance. 
Revision of a failed Swanson arthroplasty to a total wrist replacement restores wrist function and movements.	This study reports a case of revision of a failed Swanson silastic interpositional wrist replacement to a Universal 2 (KMI Medical Inc., San Diego, CA, Jan 2009) total wrist arthroplasty, in a 68-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis and pyrophosphate arthropathy. At the 2-year follow-up, the patient was pain-free and was able to perform all activities of daily living, documented by subjective assessment and objective scores. The disabilities of the arm, shoulder, and hand (DASH) scores improved from 98.3 preoperatively to 55.1 postoperatively. A failed Swanson silastic interpositional wrist replacement may be successfully revised to an uncemented primary wrist replacement with good functional results at early follow-up.
Multicenter retrospective study of endoscopic ultrasound-guided biliary drainage for malignant biliary obstruction in Japan.	Endoscopic ultrasound-guided biliary drainage (EUS-BD) is considered to be an effective salvage procedure for failed endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in patients with unresectable malignant biliary obstruction. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the efficacy and feasibility of EUS-BD.
Comparison of the long-term outcome of two therapeutic strategies for the management of abdominal abscess complicating Crohn's disease: percutaneous drainage or immediate surgical treatment.	The management of abdominal abscesses complicating Crohn's disease is complex and involves a difficult choice between medical, radiological and surgical procedures. The long-term outcome was compared for two strategies for the management of abdominal abscess: percutaneous drainage (PD) followed by rescue surgery in the case of failure vs direct immediate surgery (IS). We also compared the results of IS with surgery performed after PD failure.
Preventing pharyngo-cutaneous fistula in total laryngectomy: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	Concurrent chemoradiotherapy is the gold-standard nonsurgical organ-preservation treatment for advanced laryngeal carcinoma. Total laryngectomy (TL) is increasingly reserved for surgical salvage. Salvage surgery is associated with more complications than primary surgery. A systematic review and meta-analysis was undertaken to establish the impact of organ preservation protocols on pharyngo-cutaneous fistula incidence following TL, and to synthesize evidence on the role of "onlay" prophylactic tissue flaps in reducing this complication in salvage TL.
Clinical study of COAD-B regimen in treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma]	To investigate the efficacy, adverse events and long-term survival of cyclophosphamide, vindesine, cytarabine, dexamethasone and bleomycin (COAD-B) regimen for relapsed and refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL).
Pallidotomy after chronic deep brain stimulation.	Recent publications have demonstrated that deep brain stimulation for Parkinson's disease still exerts beneficial effects on tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia for up to 10 years after implantation of the stimulator. However with the progression of Parkinson's disease, features such as cognitive decline or "freezing" become prominent, and the presence of an implanted and functioning deep brain stimulator can impose a profound burden of care on the clinical team and family. The authors describe their experience in treating 4 patients who underwent removal of the implanted device due to either progressive dementia requiring full-time nursing or due to infection, and who subsequently underwent a unilateral pallidotomy. 
Short- and long-term outcomes after salvage liver transplantation versus primary liver transplantation for hepatocellular carcinoma: a meta-analysis.	Salvage liver transplantation (SLT) has been performed for recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) or deterioration of liver function after primary liver resection. However, the survival outcomes and recurrence rates of SLT versus primary liver transplantation (PLT) for HCC remain controversial. Here we sought to compare the short- and long-term outcomes after SLT and PLT, by conducting a quantitative meta-analysis.
When femoral fracture fixation fails: salvage options.	Most hip fractures treated with modern internal fixation techniques will heal. However, failures occasionally occur and require revision procedures. Salvage strategies employed during revision are based on whether the fixation failure occurs in the femoral neck, or in the intertrochanteric region. Patient age and remaining bone stock also influence decision making. For fractures in young patients, efforts are generally focused on preserving the native femoral head via osteotomies and repeat internal fixation. For failures in older patients, some kind of hip replacement is usually selected. Disuse osteopenia, deformity, bone loss, and stress-risers from previous internal fixation devices all pose technical challenges to successful reconstruction. Attention to detail is important in order to minimise complications. In the majority of cases, good outcomes have been reported for the various salvage strategies.
Management of patients with biochemical recurrence after local therapy for prostate cancer.	Nearly three-quarters of a million American men who have been treated with prostatectomy and/or radiation therapy experience an increasing prostate-specific antigen level known as biochemical recurrence. Although androgen-deprivation therapy remains a reasonable option for some men with biochemical recurrence, deferring androgen ablation or offering nonhormonal therapies may be appropriate in patients in whom the risk of clinical or metastatic progression and prostate cancer-specific death is low. A risk-stratified approach informed by the patient's prostate-specific antigen kinetics, comorbidities, and personal preferences is recommended to determine the best management approach. 
Gefitinib and erlotinib for non-small cell lung cancer patients who fail to respond to radiotherapy for brain metastases.	Survival and treatment options are limited for patients with brain metastases arising from non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We evaluated erlotinib and gefitinib as salvage treatments for NSCLC patients with brain metastases that failed to respond to radiotherapy in a retrospective study. Survival was estimated using Kaplan-Meier analysis and log-rank tests. Multivariable predictors were assessed using the Cox proportional hazards model. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations were assessed in part using sequencing methods. The 103 NSCLC patients who were treated with gefitinib or erlotinib for salvage treatment for brain metastases between January 2005 and December 2011 had overall objective response rates (ORR) of 11.7%, disease control rates (DCR) of 53.4%, 3.6 months of median progression-free survival (PFS), and 7.5 months of median survival. Intracranial disease had an ORR of 11.7% and a DCR of 70.9%. Extracranial disease had an ORR of 8.7% and a DCR of 66.0%. Nine patients (of 22 tested) were documented with EGFR mutations (five with deletion in exon 19 and four with L858R in exon 21). The median PFS for EGFR mutation patients was 9.0 months, versus 3.1 months for wild-type patients (p=0.001). The recursive partitioning analysis class was the only factor predictive of PFS using univariate analyses and was associated with survival in the multivariate analysis. Our retrospective data suggest a potential role for gefitinib and erlotinib in advanced NSCLC patients with brain metastases which have failed to respond to radiotherapy. Patients with EGFR mutations benefited most from treatment.
Treatment of two cases with refractory, metastatic intermediate-risk neuroblastoma with isotretenoin alone or observation.	Patients <12 months with favorable biology, metastatic neuroblastoma have >90% overall survival following treatment with chemotherapy and surgery. We report two infants with favorable biology, stage 4 neuroblastoma with refractory disease after standard intermediate-risk chemotherapy and additional retrieval chemotherapy. One patient was treated with six additional cycles of isotretinoin and the other observed. Both remain clinically well with persistent disease but no evidence of tumor progression for 28 and 13 months following completion of cytotoxic treatment. Similar to residual tumor in primary sites, refractory metastatic disease may not portend a poor outcome in patients with favorable biology, intermediate-risk neuroblastoma.
Time to disease progression in children with relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma treated with ABT-751: a report from the Children's Oncology Group (ANBL0621).	ABT-751, an orally bioavailable sulfonamide binds the colchicine site of beta-tubulin and inhibits microtubule polymerization. Prior phase I studies established the recommended dose in children with solid tumors as 200 mg/m(2) PO daily  7 days every 21 days and subjects with neuroblastoma experienced prolonged stable disease. We conducted a phase 2 study (NCT00436852) in children and adolescents with progressive neuroblastoma to determine if ABT-751 prolonged the time to progression (TTP) compared to a hypothesized standard based on a historical control population.
Partial aneurysmectomy for salvage of autogenous arteriovenous fistula with complicated venous aneurysms.	One complication of autogenous arteriovenous fistula (AVF) for hemodialysis is the formation of a venous aneurysm (VA). The treatment of massive aneurysmal AVF generally involves ligation or resection with the use of prosthetic interposition. Partial aneurysmectomy, with or without reduction venoplasty, has been suggested to treat such a complicated AVF to maintain an all-autogenous access. The purpose of this study was to describe these procedures and examine their outcomes.
Vemurafenib in pediatric patients with BRAFV600E mutated high-grade gliomas.	We present three pediatric patients with BRAFV600E mutant high-grade gliomas treated by vemurafenib on a nominative authorization level at our institution. One patient with anaplastic ganglioglioma experienced confirmed partial tumor response and significant clinical improvement and she is alive 20 months after start of treatment. A second patient with ganglioglioma responded transiently to re-introduction of vemurafenib after immunotherapy. Pharmacokinetic studies suggest that maximum concentration and exposure of vemurafenib at steady-state is dose-dependent and similar in children to that reported in adults. These cases suggest that BRAFV600 is an oncogenic driver in pediatric gliomas. Further exploration in clinical studies is ongoing.
The association of subventricular zone involvement at recurrence with survival after repeat surgery in patients with recurrent glioblastoma.	Surgical resection is identified as an important prognostic factor for survival in patients undergoing initial resection of glioblastoma (GBM). However, in patients with tumor recurrence, the benefits of repeat surgery remain unclear. Recent reports have stated that the association between initial surgery for GBM and subventricular zone (SVZ) influences survival. The current study examined the relationship of SVZ involvement in recurrent GBM to survival time after reoperation. We conducted a retrospective review of 61 consecutive patients who had undergone repeat surgery for recurrent GBM at our institution between 1997 and 2010. Survival after repeat surgery were compared between patients with (n = 29) and without (n = 32) SVZ involvement at recurrence using univariate analysis with known prognostic factors, including sex, age, Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) score at recurrence, recurrent tumor size, initial SVZ involvement, and adjuvant therapy after repeat surgery, as variables. All 26 SVZ-positive tumors at initial diagnosis recurred as SVZ-positive tumors, while 32 of 35 SVZ-negative tumors at initial diagnosis remained SVZ-negative at recurrence; the remaining three were SVZ-positive at recurrence. Survival after repeat surgery was decreased in patients with recurrent GBM involving the SVZ at recurrence (p = 0.022). No other prognostic factors for survival after repeat surgery were identified in this study. This finding may have prognostic and therapeutic significance. 
Outcome of transplantation for acute lymphoblastic leukemia in children with Down syndrome.	We report on 27 patients with Down syndrome (DS) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who received allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) between 2000 and 2009. Seventy-eight percent of patients received myeloablative conditioning and 52% underwent transplantation in second remission. Disease-free survival (DFS) was 24% at a median of 3 years. Post-transplant leukemic relapse was more frequent than expected for children with DS-ALL (54%) than for non-DS ALL. These data suggest leukemic relapse rather than transplant toxicity is the most important cause of treatment failure. Advancements in leukemia control are especially needed for improvement in HCT outcomes for DS-ALL.
Early surgical thrombectomy improves salvage of thrombosed vascular accesses.	The timing and urgency of salvage attempts for acutely thrombosed hemodialysis vascular accesses remain poorly defined. We examined the outcome of early surgical thrombectomy after acute access thrombosis to assess the influence of expedited timing on access salvage.
Prophylactic chimera anterolateral thigh/vastus lateralis flap: preventing complications in high-risk head and neck reconstruction.	In high-risk head and neck cases treated with tumor resection and associated radical neck dissection, orocutaneous fistulas and wound breakdowns in the neck are relatively frequent and can have serious consequences, such as carotid blowout syndrome (CBS), the need for salvage reoperations, and prolonged recovery time. The authors present the application of a prophylactic chimeric anterolateral thigh (ALT) and vastus lateralis (VL) flap to prevent complications.
SWOG S0910: a phase 2 trial of clofarabine/cytarabine/epratuzumab for relapsed/refractory acute lymphocytic leukaemia.	Precursor B-acute lymphoblastic leukaemias (pre-B ALLs) comprise the majority of ALLs and virtually all blasts express CD22 in the cytoplasm and on the cell surface. In the present study (Southwestern Oncology Group S0910), we evaluated the addition of epratuzumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody against CD22, to the combination of clofarabine and cytarabine in adults with relapsed/refractory pre-B ALL. The response rate [complete remission and complete remission with incomplete count recovery] was 52%, significantly higher than our previous trial with clofarabine/cytarabine alone, where the response rate was 17%. This result is encouraging and suggests a potential benefit to adding epratuzumab to chemotherapy for ALL; however, a randomized trial will be needed to answer this question. 
Everolimus for patients with mantle cell lymphoma refractory to or intolerant of bortezomib: multicentre, single-arm, phase 2 study.	The multicentre, open-label, two-stage, single-arm, phase 2, PILLAR (PIvotaL Lymphoma triAls of RAD001)-1 study (NCT00702052) assessed the efficacy and safety of everolimus 10mg/d in adults with confirmed mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) refractory to or intolerant of bortezomib who received 1 other antineoplastic agent, either separately or in combination with bortezomib. Primary endpoint was overall response rate (ORR) per investigator review according to the response criteria for malignant lymphoma. Secondary endpoints included progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and safety. Fifty-eight patients were enrolled from August 2008-January 2011. Five partial responses were observed (ORR 86%; 90% confidence interval [CI] 35-173%); the study did not meet the prespecified objective of 8 objective responses among 57 patients. Median PFS and OS were 44months (95% CI 35-61) and 169months (95% CI 144-299), respectively. Grade 3/4 non-haematological toxicities occurred in 707% of patients. Based on laboratory values, grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia, neutropenia and anaemia occurred in 138%, 138% and 86% of patients, respectively. Everolimus demonstrated modest activity and acceptable tolerability in heavily pretreated patients with MCL refractory to or intolerant of bortezomib. Future studies evaluating everolimus in a less refractory population or in combination with other targeted therapies in refractory MCL are warranted. 
Outcome and prognostic factors in patients with mantle-cell lymphoma relapsing after autologous stem-cell transplantation: a retrospective study of the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT).	Autologous stem-cell transplantation (autoSCT) is considered a standard treatment of non-frail patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), but little is known about outcome of MCL patients relapsing after autoSCT. We therefore sought to analyse the outcome after autoSCT failure and the efficacy of a rescue stem-cell transplantation (SCT) in this setting.
Combining gemcitabine, cisplatin, and ifosfamide (GIP) is active in patients with relapsed metastatic germ-cell tumors (GCT): a prospective multicenter GETUG phase II trial.	The standard treatment of patients with metastatic germ-cell tumor (GCT) relapsing after first-line chemotherapy is based on a cisplatin and ifosfamide-containing three-drug regimen, which usually yields a complete response (CR) rate <50%. As gemcitabine consistently displayed activity in patients with advanced GCT and as synergy with cisplatin was reported, we integrated this drug into the salvage triplet regimen and assessed its activity in this phase II study.
Salvage thoracic surgery in patients with primary lung cancer.	Patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) continue to have a poor prognosis. The majority of patients are not indicated for surgery for a radical cure, and systemic chemotherapy is the mainstay of treatment. However, long-term survival is rare due to the resistance to therapy. On the other hand, surgery is performed only under certain conditions for colon cancer and esophageal cancer. Few reports are available about salvage thoracic surgery in patients with primary lung cancer. The purpose of this study was to show the outcomes of salvage surgery for lung cancer, and we discuss possible future treatment strategies based on our findings.
Surgical resection for local recurrence after radiofrequency ablation for colorectal liver metastasis is more extensive than primary resection.	As a minimally invasive modality, radiofrequency ablation (RFA) has been increasingly applied not only for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma, but also for that of colorectal liver metastasis (CLM). However, RFA for CLM has been shown to be associated with a high local recurrence rate, and no optimal treatment for RFA failure has been established yet. The aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and outcome of surgical resection for local recurrence after RFA.
Treatment outcome in children and adolescents with relapsed Hodgkin lymphoma--results of the UK HD3 relapse treatment strategy.	The purpose of this national retrospective study was to evaluate the outcome in children with relapsed or primary refractory Hodgkin lymphoma [HL] after a primary chemotherapy alone treatment strategy. Between 2000 and 2005, 80 children with relapsed [n = 69] or primary refractory [n = 11] HL were treated on a standardized treatment protocol of 4-6 cycles of EPIC [etoposide, prednisolone, ifosfamide and cisplatin] chemotherapy. Radiotherapy was recommended to all relapsed sites. High dose therapy with stem cell rescue [SCT] was recommended for patients with poor response. The 5-year overall survival [OS] and progression-free survival from relapse was 758% [648-839] and 599% [483-697] respectively. Duration of first remission was strongly associated with OS; risk of death was decreased by 53% [Hazard ratio (HR): 047, 95% confidence interval (CI): 019-118] for those with a time from end of treatment to relapse of 3-12 months (compared to <3 months) and reduced by 80% (HR 020, 95% CI: 004-090) for those >12 months after end of treatment. Other poor prognostic factors included advanced stage disease at relapse and B symptoms at first diagnosis. The most important factor associated with salvage failure was time to relapse. Survival outcome in children with primary refractory HL is poor.
A phase II multicenter study to investigate R-ICE as a salvage therapy for relapsed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma]	To investigate the efficacy and safety of rituximab together with etoposide, carboplatin, and ifosfamide (R-ICE) as a salvage therapy for relapsed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) after treatment with rituximab based first-line chemotherapy (R-Chemo).
Current and future therapeutic approach for Waldenstrm's macroglobulinemia.	Waldenstrm's macroglobulinemia is a rare B-cell malignancy defined by medullar infiltration by clonal lymphoplasmocytic cells and monoclonal IgM secretion. Treatment is reserved for symptomatic patients. The main first-line treatment strategies combine immunotherapy (principally the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab) with chemotherapeutic agents, including alkylating agents, purine analogs and/or bortezomib. The overall response rate to these conventional treatments is between 70 and 90%, but a cure cannot be expected. For patients with relapsed or refractory disease, drugs that were not used for first-line treatment and other agents such as immunomodulators can be tried, but the response rate is generally lower and the responses are shorter lived. Recently, advances in our understanding of the biology of Waldenstrm's macroglobulinemia have led to the development of new drugs targeting hyperactive pathways. This review focuses on current treatment options and on new therapeutic developments. 
Pretreatment with cisplatin plus hyperthermia kills different tumor cells but preserves the erythrocyte function in the intra-operative blood salvage in vitro]	To investigate the effects of cisplatin plus hyperthermia on erythrocytes and killing human hepatocarcinoma (HepG2), gastro carcinoma (SGC7901) and colonic carcinoma (SW620) cells in the intra-operative blood salvage from cancer surgery in vitro.
Autologous bone marrow transplantation as compared with salvage chemotherapy in relapses of chemotherapy-sensitive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	High-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous bone marrow transplantation is a therapeutic option for patients with chemotherapy-sensitive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who have relapses. In this report we describe a prospective randomized study of such treatment.
Surgical rescue of recurrent carcinoma of the nasal columella.	Tumors involving the nasal columella have been noted for their aggressive behavior. Columellar malignancies exhibit perhaps the highest incidence of recurrence and metastasis of all nasal and midfacial cancers of cutaneous origin. Periosteal invasion of maxillary bone and nasal floor may occur "barrier free." Submucosal infiltration of the nasal septum easily develops, leading to potentially lethal invasion of the anterior cranial base. Rapid extension of cancer to the adjacent bony and cartilaginous facial structures requires extensive oncological resections for control. While tumor histology and biologic behavior remain important prognostic indicators, anatomic location within the columella carries with it a much poorer prognosis than do other nasal cutaneous lesions. Recurrent tumors in this location as a result of inadequate initial treatment present a formidable therapeutic challenge.
Induction chemotherapy followed by adjuvant surgery (IC-AS) in patients with stage I-II small cell lung cancer (SCLC)]	Ten patients with stage I-II SCLC received IC-AS between 1984 and 1993. As induction chemotherapy, COMP-VAN alternating chemotherapy and CAV-PVP hybrid chemotherapy were administered. The former consisted of a 4-drug combination of cyclophosphamide (CPA), vincristine (VCR), methotrexate (MTX) and procarbazine alternated with a 3-drug combination of etoposide (ETP), adriamycin (ADM) and nimustine every 4 weeks. In the latter, a 3-drug combination of CPA, ADM and VCR given on day 1, and a 2-drug combination of ETP and cisplatin on day 8, were repeated every 4 weeks. All the patients had an objective response, including one complete response by induction chemotherapy. Post-operative pathology revealed SCLC in 4 patients, adenocarcinoma in 2 and no tumor (pathological CR) in 4. Four patients relapsed, and a intrathoracic relapse was experienced in only 2 patients. Six patients have died: 3 from relapsing SCLC, 2 from stomach cancer, and 1 from squamous lung cancer, who was salvaged from relapsing SCLC. The median survival time was 27.5 months, and the 3-year survival rate 37.5%. These results indicate that IC-AS is highly effective for stage I-II SCLC and warrant additional studies comparing IC-AS with chemo-radiotherapy.
Bulky mediastinal Hodgkin's disease: results of a combined modality approach (ABVD/MOPP alternating chemotherapy plus radiation therapy).	Bulky mediastinal involvement is a challenging presentation of Hodgkin's disease (HD). Radiotherapy alone has provided a good response rate but also a high percentage of recurrences, and therefore many studies have been initiated to evaluate combined modality treatment.
FK506 conversion for intractable rejection of the liver allograft.	Twenty-seven liver transplant recipients with intractable, biopsy-proven, acute or chronic rejection (defined as vanishing bile duct syndrome) were converted from cyclosporin to FK506. Successful conversion was achieved in 9 of 15 patients with acute rejection and in 6 of 12 patients with vanishing bile duct syndrome. A normal bilirubin was achieved more quickly in those with acute rejection (within 1 month) than in those with chronic rejection (within 3 months). A preconversion total bilirubin of less than 12 mg/dl was considered significant with regard to a successful outcome (P = 0.002). Graft survival was 66.7% and patient survival 73% in the case of acute rejection, and 50% and 66.7%, respectively, in the case of chronic rejection. Nephrotoxicity, neurotoxicity, and gastrointestinal side effects were the most serious complications of FK506 conversion. Six of ten patients had a drop in GFR that was 50% or greater after a minimum of 1 month of FK506 exposure. The mean maintenance dose of FK506 to maintain FK506 serum levels of 0.5-1.5 ng/ml was 0.07 mg/kg per 12 h for adults (half the recommended dose), compared to 0.15 mg/kg per 12 h for pediatric patients. This study demonstrates that FK506 can be used successfully to convert patients with intractable acute and chronic rejection. Careful adjustments of FK506 dosages and levels are required to minimize side effects.
Conversion from cyclosporin to FK 506 after liver transplantation.	Thirty-seven liver-grafted patients with steroid-resistant acute or chronic graft rejection or with cyclosporin-related complications were converted from CyA to FK 506. The clinical outcome of the patients primarily depended on the degree of liver dysfunction present at initiation of FK 506 treatment. In patients switched to FK 506 for treatment of acute or early chronic graft rejection, CyA nephrotoxicity, or CyA malabsorption, the FK 506 therapy was associated with a clear improvement in the clinical course. In contrast, in patients with advanced chronic graft rejection, a lower response rate to the conversion in immunosuppression was observed. The lower response rate was associated with a higher patient mortality. These studies demonstrate that FK 506 represents a valuable alternative immunosuppressant for liver-grafted patients. The conversion from CyA to FK 506 should take place before serious--and potentially irreversible--disturbances in liver function are observed.
Improved flow-cytometric detection of low P-glycoprotein expression in leukaemic blasts by histogram subtraction analysis.	Expression of the drug efflux pump P-glycoprotein (PGP) was determined by flow cytometry in human lung cancer cell lines and in leukaemic blasts derived from 60 patients with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). Cells from the PGP-negative parent cell line H69/P and the multidrug resistant (MDR)-variant H69/LX4 could be clearly distinguished by immunostaining with the anti-PGP monoclonal antibody MRK16. In leukaemic blasts, the differences in fluorescence intensities between samples incubated with the idiotypic nonspecific (control sample) and specific antibody (test sample) were small, resulting in nondisjunct distributions. Only in a few leukaemia specimens were PGP-expressing cells detectable by simple subtraction of histograms using a threshold. Therefore, an improved histogram subtraction analysis, based on curve fitting and a statistical test, was applied to distinguish antigen-positive from antigen-negative cells. Moreover, a multiparametric staining procedure employing propidium iodide (PI) and Hoechst 33342 was used to reduce staining artefacts. By this approach, leukaemic cells with low expression of PGP were detected in 39 out of 60 cases. Subpopulations with strong PGP expression, resulting in disjunct fluorescence distributions, were not observed. Only in 5 out of 60 specimens were PGP expressing cells detected by a conventional subtraction of histograms using a threshold. Comparison of data obtained with or without the multiparametric gating procedure indicated that the increase in sensitivity was mainly due to the application of the data analysis. However, exclusion of cell debris using PI and Hoechst staining properties reduced the deviation of data from mean values. No relation between PGP expression and cell cycle position was observed in either cell lines or in leukaemic blasts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Serum tumor marker decline is an early predictor of treatment outcome in germ cell tumor patients treated with cisplatin and ifosfamide salvage chemotherapy.	Serum tumor marker regression (alpha-fetoprotein [AFP] and human chorionic gonadotrophin [hCG]) was studied in patients treated with ifosfamide-based chemotherapy for cisplatin-resistant germ cell tumors (GCT) to investigate the role of marker regression as a predictor of treatment outcome.
Sequential peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation after mobilization with salvage chemotherapy and G-CSF in patients with resistant lymphoma.	We enrolled 18 patients affected by refractory or relapsed lymphoma (HD, NHL) in a two-step protocol that included salvage chemotherapy with mitoxantrone, carboplatinum, methylprednisolone, and cytosine arabinoside (MiCMA) plus G-CSF (5 micrograms/kg/day), peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) collection, and subsequent transplantation after BUCY2 regimen. After MiCMA chemotherapy, four patients (22%) achieved complete response, eight patients (44%) obtained a partial response, and six showed progression of disease (PD). Fourteen out of 18 patients (78%) were considered eligible for PBPC transplantation. Three patients with complete response refused PBPCT; they are currently in continuous complete remission (CCR) at 15, 13, and 15 months, respectively. One patient has been recently transplanted but is too early to be evaluated. Ten patients so far completed the study, eight of whom are currently alive in CR, with a median follow-up of 7.5 months (range 2-13). Hematologic reconstitution was very rapid with a median time to achieve WBC > 1 x 10(9)/L, PMN > 0.5 x 10(9)/L, platelets > 50 x 10(9)/L and > 100 x 10(9)/L of 13 (range 9-15), 12 (range 9-14), 10 (range 0-22), and 14 (range 5-49) days, respectively. Our protocol is highly effective as a salvage treatment, while permitting PBPC collection after G-CSF administration. Hemopoietic reconstitution after transplantation of PBPCs collected with this procedure is complete, rapid, and sustained.
Taxol plus recombinant human granulocyte-colony stimulating factor as initial and as salvage chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer: a preliminary report.	Twenty-eight patients received Taxol as their first chemotherapy for stage IV breast cancer. An additional 51 patients with extensive prior exposure to other chemotherapeutic agents received Taxol as salvage therapy. We found significant activity for the drug in both situations, as well as a strong clinical suggestion of non-cross-resistance with doxorubicin. An excellent response in previously irradiated skin was noted in one case. The routine use of recombinant human granulocyte-colony stimulating factor seemed to ameliorate some of the dose-limiting toxicity of neutropenia. Other toxicity was mild to moderate in most cases. With further development, Taxol should play a significant role in the systemic management of breast cancer.
Peripheral blood stem cell autografts for the treatment of childhood cancer: a review of the Japanese experience. Japanese Cooperative Study Group of PBSCT (JCSG/PBSCT).	Harvesting peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) for autografts (PBSCT) in children with active cancers is a safe and reliable procedure with a low incidence of serious morbidity. A significant correlation between the number of infused CFU-GM and the time to both granulocyte and platelet engraftment was found. Cells induced by G-CSF could speed the recovery of granulocyte or platelet counts after PBSCT. In terms of preserving engraftment potential, cryopreservation of PBSC by a simplified uncontrolled-rate method is at least as effective as the traditional controlled-rate freezing procedure with a programmed freezer. As the serum G-CSF level increases immediately following infusion of PBSC graft, therapy with G-CSF may have only a limited ability to further enhance hematopoietic recovery after PBSCT. Preliminary results of high-dose chemotherapy without TBI and PBSCT for the treatment of children with relapsed ALL are encouraging.
The use of G-CSF or GM-CSF mobilized peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) alone or to augment marrow as hematologic support of single or multiple cycle high-dose chemotherapy.	High dose chemotherapy with autologous bone marrow support (ABMT) can achieve prolonged relapse-free survival in relapsed lymphomas, leukemias, and certain solid tumors. The principal morbidity and mortality relate to the infectious complications that occur during the 3-4 week aplasia until the marrow autograft recovers. Progenitor cells can be mobilized into the peripheral blood compartment by hematopoietic growth factors, used alone or after chemotherapy. We describe four trials using cytokine-mobilized peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC). In the first trial, PBPC collected after GM-CSF administration were used to augment marrow. Reconstitution of trilineage marrow function occurred promptly, resulting in short hospital stays and fewer platelet transfusions. In a second study, GM-CSF/chemotherapy-mobilized PBPC were used as the sole hematopoietic support during high dose chemotherapy. Granulocyte and platelet reconstitution was rapid. Time to hematopoietic recovery, transfusion requirements, and duration of hospital stay were all significantly improved for the patients receiving PBPC compared with similar patients receiving marrow alone. While most patients experienced prompt hematopoietic recovery they showed sluggish platelet engraftment. The next two trials built on the observation that a few PBPC alone could support both granulocyte and platelet recovery and were designed to test the feasibility of sequential high-dose therapies. In one trial, PBPC given with and without marrow made it possible to deliver two sequential cycles of high-dose therapy. The second trial utilized PBPC plus cytokines to deliver four cycles of dose-intensive chemotherapy at doses that could not be given with cytokine support alone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ifosfamide, epirubicin and etoposide (IEV) therapy in relapsed and refractory high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and Hodgkin's disease.	A fundamental principle in the therapeutic strategy for recurrent lymphomas is the employment of agents that are not part of the usual front line combination regimens. Ideally, the cytotoxic agents should lack complete cross resistance with those utilized up front.
Cyclophosphamide (3.6 g/m2) therapy with G-CSF support for resistant myeloma.	In myeloma patients resistance to both melphalan- and doxorubicin-containing regimens has been related to very short survival (approximately 6 months). The development of effective regimens combined with a low toxicity rate is mandatory in this patient subgroup.
Visual hallucinations following treatment with vincristine.	Peripheral neuropathy is a common side effect of vincristine therapy. However, side effects due to central nervous system (CNS) toxicity following intravenous administration are rare. We report two patients who developed visual hallucinations during treatment with vincristine.
HLA-mismatched cord blood transplantation: immunological studies.	Two cases of HLA partially matched related cord blood transplantation were reported. The first patient remains healthy more than 4 years after graft. The second patient died from acute GVHD. In the first case, the immune reconstitution was studied over a 2 year period after graft: the alloreactive cytotoxic T-cell precursor (CTLp) frequencies were comparable between the donor and the recipient. Indirect evidence suggested that the resolution of GVHD was not due to a specific deletion of CTLp against the HLA antigens unshared between donor and recipient.
Simultaneous carboplatin and radiotherapy for all stages of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.	The study investigated the toxicity and efficiency of the concomitant administration of radiotherapy and carboplatin to patients with head and neck carcinomas. Sixty-three patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinomas, other than nasopharyngeal cancer and Stage I (UICC) laryngeal cancers, were treated by external radiotherapy and four courses of carboplatin at a dose of 100 mg/m2 per week. In two patients, only three courses were possible due to renal toxicity. In the other 61 patients, toxicities were self-limiting and no patient required interruption of carboplatin administration. No patient required discontinuation of radiotherapy because of acute toxicity. Of 61 evaluable patients, a complete response (CR) was obtained in 11.5% and a partial response (PR) in 60.7% at 40 Gy. In 41 patients treated to 65 Gy (including two patients with maxillary sinus carcinoma, who were treated by debulking surgery), CR was obtained in 76.9% and CR+PR was 100% at the end of treatment. The actuarial survival rate of the 63 patients at 2 years was 69.2%, with a median follow-up period of 24.4 months. One of 12 patients who received salvage surgery after radical radiotherapy has died due to poor wound healing after the surgery. The schedule was safe, providing a weekly check of serum samples was possible. It is likely that the rate of local control and vocal cord preservation in laryngeal tumours might improve if concurrent carboplatin is used. Careful follow-up is required to determine the long-term effect of concomitant carboplatin administration.
A phase II study of carboplatin and vinorelbine as second-line treatment for advanced breast cancer.	Forty-one patients with advanced breast cancer were given carboplatin and vinorelbine as second-line therapy. Overall objective response rate was 46% (95% confidence interval 26-56%). Myelotoxicity was the most frequently observed toxic effect; grade III-IV leucopenia occurred in 46% of the patients. Our regimen is active as second-line chemotherapy for advanced breast cancer and warrants further evaluation.
A Scottish national audit of current patterns of management for patients with testicular non-seminomatous germ-cell tumours. The Scottish Radiological Society and the Scottish Committee of the Royal College of Radiologists.	A detailed casenote review was performed on all 65 patients registered with testicular non-seminomatous germ cell tumours (NSGCT) during 1989 under the Scottish Cancer Registration Scheme. Details of management at presentation and 2 years following diagnosis were recorded and analysed. In a small number of patients an unacceptable delay in diagnosis was noted. Variation was found in the frequency and type of investigations performed on patients placed on surveillance, types of chemotherapy regimens used and numbers of patients entered into trials. Three per cent of patients had a biopsy of the contralateral testis and 27% of patients defaulted from clinic attendance. Considerable variation in the management of testicular NSGCT in Scotland has been identified. The introduction of management guidelines should result in a more consistent approach to the care of these patients. Support, both financial and psychological, may reduce the unacceptable rate of default.
Kinetics of minimal residual disease during induction/consolidation therapy in standard-risk adult B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	We have compared the kinetics of minimal residual disease (MRD) by simultaneous polymerase chain reaction (PCR) monitoring with oligonucleotides for the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) complementarity-determining region 3 (CDR3) and the T-cell receptor gamma chain gene (TCR gamma), as well as clone-specific CDR3 sequences in adult patients (aged 17-51 years) with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who entered a complete hematological remission (CR) after chemotherapy with the German multicenter ALL (GMALL) protocol. The sensitivities were one in 10(2-3) for the CDR3- and TCR gamma-PCR and one in 10(5-6) for a two-step, seminested CDR3/clone-specific PCR. At diagnosis, 7/7 patients were CDR3 positive and four were TCR gamma positive in their bone marrow (BM). At the end of induction therapy (after 2 months) 4/6 tested positive for CDR3, 2/6 for TCR gamma, and 5/6 for clone-specific rearrangements. At the end of consolidation treatment (after 7 months) only 1/7 remained positive for CDR3, 2/7 for TCR gamma, and 5/7 for clone-specific rearrangements. After an observation period of 18-36 months, 4/7 patients were still in CR and all were PCR negative by the clone-specific method during or after maintenance therapy. Two patients died in leukemic relapse; one patient relapsed but is still alive. All three of these patients remained PCR positive throughout the course of their disease. Clonal evolution in the IgH locus was found in one of these patients. We conclude that the molecular response to chemotherapy in adult B-lineage ALL is slow, even in patients without risk factors other than age. As in childhood ALL, most patients with long-term CR convert to PCR negativity approximately 18 months after the start of chemotherapy. The data also suggest the existence of early clone-specific PCR negativity in a small proportion of long-term survivors. The predictive value of this observation will now have to be confirmed in a larger study.
In vitro cellular drug resistance in children with relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Cellular drug resistance is thought to be an important cause of the poor prognosis for children with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but it is unknown when, to which drugs, and to what extent resistance is present. We determined in vitro resistance to 13 drugs with the MTT assay. Compared with 141 children with initial ALL, cells from 137 children with relapsed ALL were significantly more resistant to glucocorticoids, L-asparaginase, anthracyclines, and thiopurines, but not to vinca-alkaloids, cytarabine, ifosfamide, and epipodophyllotoxins. Relapsed ALL cells expressed the highest level of resistance to glucocorticoids, with a median level 357- and >24-fold more resistant to prednisolone and dexamethasone, respectively, than initial ALL cells, whereas the resistance ratios for the other drugs differed from 0.8- to 1.9-fold, intraindividual comparisons between initial and relapsed samples from 16 children with ALL showed that both de novo and acquired drug resistance were involved. Specific in vitro drug-resistance profiles were associated with high-risk relapsed ALL groups. In vitro drug resistance was also related to the clinical response to chemotherapy in relapsed/refractory childhood ALL. We conclude that drug resistance may explain the poor prognosis for children with relapsed/refractory ALL. These day may be helpful to design alternative treatment regimens for relapsed childhood ALL.
Molecular analysis of infant acute lymphoblastic leukemia: MLL gene rearrangement and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction for t(4; 11)(q21; q23).	Molecular techniques to detect MLL (11q23) and AF-4 (4q21) gene rearrangements are being evaluated for use in stratification of patients into prognostic groups. We studied 15 cases of infant acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with Southern blotting for MLL gene rearrangement and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for t(4;11) fusion transcripts and compared the results to cytogenetic and clinical data. Our results indicate that classic t(4;11)(q21;q23) translocations are detected by RT-PCR; however, unusual 4;11 translocations still require additional investigation. We also extended and updated our original study of MLL gene rearrangement in infant ALL to 40 patients with longer follow-up and show that the group with germline configuration of the MLL gene continues to have an excellent outcome. The results of salvage therapy (bone marrow transplantation or chemotherapy) suggest that transplant may show advantage. Preliminary results of the use of RT-PCR to assess minimal disease are also reported.
Autologous progenitor cell transplantation: prior exposure to stem cell-toxic drugs determines yield and engraftment of peripheral blood progenitor cell but not of bone marrow grafts.	Agents with stem cell-toxic potential are frequently used for salvage therapy of Hodgkin's disease (HD) and high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Because many patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoma are candidates for autologous progenitor cell transplantation, possible toxic effects of salvage chemotherapy on progenitor cells must be taken into account. In a retrospective study, we have analyzed the influence of a salvage regimen containing the stem cell-toxic drugs BCNU and melphalan (Dexa-BEAM) on subsequently harvested bone marrow (BM)- and peripheral blood-derived progenitor cell grafts (PBPC) and compared it with other factors. Progenitor cells were collected from 96 patients with HD or high-grade NHL. Seventy-nine grafts were reinfused (35 PBPC and 44 BM) after high-dose chemotherapy. Compared with patients autografted with BM, hematopoietic recovery was significantly accelerated in recipients of PBPC. For PBPC, the number of Dexa-BEAM cycles ( > or = v > 1) was the predominate prognostic factor affecting colony-forming unit-granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM) yield (66 v 6.8 x 10(4)/kg, P = .0001), CD34+ cell yield (6.6 v 1.6 x 10(6)/kg, P = .0001), neutrophil recovery to > 0.5 x 10(9)/L (9 v. 11 days, P = .0086), platelet recovery to > 20 x 10(9)/L (10 v 15.5 days, P = .0002), and platelet count on day +100 after transplantation (190 v 107 x 10(9)/L, P = .031) using univariate analysis. Previous radiotherapy was associated with significantly lower CFU-GM and CD34+ cell yields but had no influence on engraftment. Patient age, patient sex, disease activity, or chemotherapy other than Dexa-BEAM did not have any prognostic impact. Multivariate analysis confirmed that Dexa-BEAM chemotherapy was the overriding factor adversely influencing CFU-GM yield (P < .0001), CD34+ cell yield (P < .0001), and platelet engraftment (P < .0001). BM grafts were not significantly affected by previous Dexa-BEAM chemotherapy or any other variable tested. However, prognostic factors favoring the use of BM instead of PBPC were not identified using joint regression models involving interaction terms between the graft type (PBPC or BM) and the explanatory variables investigated. We conclude that, in contrast to previous radiotherapy or other chemotherapy, exposure to salvage regimens containing stem cell-toxic drugs, such as BCNU and melphalan, is a critical factor adversely affecting yields and performance of PBPC grafts. Marrow progenitor cells appear to be less sensitive to stem cell-toxic chemotherapy. PBPC should be harvested before repeated courses of salvage chemotherapy involving stem cell-toxic drugs to preserve the favorable repopulation kinetics of PBPC in comparison with BM.
Recombinant alpha-interferon as treatment for chronic myelogenous leukemia in relapse after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation: a report from the Socit Franaise de Greffe de Moelle.	Thirty three patients with Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) in relapse after allogenic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) were treated with recombinant alpha-interferon (IFN). Ten patients received IFN for cytogenetic relapse (group I) and 23 (group II) for hematologic relapse. The starting dose of IFN varied from 1.7 to 6 million units/m2/day (median 3 x 10(6) U/m2/day). Among the 10 group I patients, 3 subsequently developed hematologic relapse. Of the other 7, a cytogenetic response was observed in 6 (complete 4, minor 2). Three of these responders are alive in complete cytogenetic remission. Of the 23 group II patients, 3 did not respond to IFN but 20 achieved a complete (CHR) (n = 14) or a partial hematologic response (PHR) (n = 6). Thirteen of the 14 CHR patients subsequently achieved a cytogenetic response (complete 7, minor 6). Seven of the latter 13 patients are still alive in complete cytogenetic remission (CCR). Thus, for the entire group of 33 patients, IFN was followed by CCR in 11 cases (33%); all these patients are still alive and the median follow-up in CCR is now 60.7 months (range 35.3-72.5 months). The BCR-ABL rearrangement was not detected by RT-PCR in 5 of the 10 patients analyzed. Eleven other patients developed either blast crisis or acceleration. The 3-year probability of survival from the start of IFN therapy probability of survival from the start of IFN therapy was 70 +/- 16% (95% CI) and was statistically higher for patients who achieved CCR than for the others.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Treatment of steroid-resistant graft-versus-host disease after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation with anti-CD3/TCR monoclonal antibodies.	Acute graft-versus host disease (GVHD), one of the major complications of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT), occurs in 30-50% of all patients transplanted from HLA-identical sibling donors and in 50-80% of all patients transplanted from an unrelated or HLA-mismatched family donor, despite GVHD prophylaxis with methotrexate and cyclosporin. We report our experience with OKT3/BMA031 treatment in 14 patients with severe steroid-resistant GVHD following allogeneic BMT. Three of 5 patients treated in the early post-transplant period with OKT3 remitted and 2 of 3 became long-term survivors. Two patients treated for extensive chronic GVHD showed only minor responses. Five of 7 patients treated with BMA031 showed a partial remission; no complete remission was seen after treatment with this antibody. Shortly after the introduction of OKT3 or BMA031 therapy a rapid decline of the lymphocyte count, especially the CD3+ subset, was observed coinciding with a relative increase of CD56+ lymphocytes and of gamma/delta TCR+ T cells. Increasing numbers of CD3+ lymphocytes preceded recurrence of acute GVHD in three patients. In contrast, persisting CD3-lymphocytopenia was associated with complete clearance of acute GVHD. The incidence of infectious complications following OKT3 or BMA031 therapy was high (42%). Thus, to improve treatment results of severe acute GVHD, prophylactic or pre-emptive strategies are required to reduce the rate of fatal viral and fungal infections.
FK506 (tacrolimus) in the treatment of steroid-resistant acute graft-versus-host disease in children undergoing bone marrow transplantation.	Steroid-resistant graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is an often lethal complication of bone marrow transplantation (BMT). FK506 (tacrolimus) is a new potent immunosuppressant which has been shown to be superior to conventional immunosuppression in the prevention and treatment of graft rejection in recipients of solid organ transplants. To determine whether FK506 is effective in the treatment of steroid-resistant acute GVHD, 6 children with biopsy-proven severe GVHD were studied. FK506 was administered as intravenous or oral therapy and the dose was adjusted to achieve serum levels between 0.5 and 1.0 microgram/ml by ELISA. Steroid doses were tapered based on clinical grading in each organ. Within 1-2 days, improvement occurred in skin and gut in all patients, and in liver in 3 patients. Toxicity attributable to FK506 was similar to that described in solid organ transplant patients and included neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity and gastrointestinal effects. While FK506 is effective in the treatment of steroid-resistant acute GVHD, toxicity may limit its use. Further studies evaluating FK506 as GVHD prophylaxis and treatment of less advanced GVHD are needed.
Relapse of multiple myeloma after autologous transplantation: survival after salvage therapy.	Owing to lack of progress with standard chemotherapy and the presence of a dose response effect for alkylating agents, autotransplantation is performed with increasing frequency for multiple myeloma (MM). However, sustained relapse-free survival is still infrequent. We studied 94 patients who had relapsed following autotransplantation, in order to evaluate the efficacy of further therapy. Post-transplant salvage treatment consisted of either standard dose therapy (53) or transplantation with an intensive preparative regimen (with autograft support in 31 and allogeneic transplantation in 10). Complete remission (CR) rate, event-free and overall survival were assessed and prognostic variables identified in a multivariate regression analysis. With a median follow-up of 11 months, the projected overall survival at 18 months for all patients is 59%. A multivariate analysis identified pre-salvage beta-2-microglobulin (B2M) < or = 2.5 mg/l (P = 0.0002) and late relapse after the preceding transplant ( > 12 months; (P = 0.02) as independent significant favorable variables for overall survival. By combining pre-salvage B2M and the time to relapse, 2 risk groups of patients could be identified with significantly different overall survival: those with at least one favorable variable had a projected survival at 18 months of 79%, compared to 38% for patients with no favorable variable. Transplantation performed as primary salvage therapy was associated with a significantly prolonged survival (P = 0.009), although this may be more a reflection of the way salvage therapy was selected.
DHAP regimen plus G-CSF as salvage therapy and priming for blood progenitor cell collection in patients with poor prognosis lymphoma.	We studied 14 patients affected by lymphoma to assess the toxicity, efficacy and mobilization capability of salvage DHAP regimen followed by G-CSF 5 micrograms/kg/day. Ten patients were affected by intermediate-grade NHL and 4 by HD; all of them were in relapse or in PR. We administered a total of 34 courses of DHAP plus G-CSF (median 2 per patient; range 1-5) and did not observe either life-threatening extrahematologic toxicity or severe infections during the short neutropenic period. A significant tumor burden reduction was observed in 86% of patients (50% CR, 36% PR). A total of 35 aphereses were performed (median 3 per patient; range 1-5). The hemopoietic progenitors showed a very rapid increase from day +11 with a synchronous and impressive peak on day +13. We collected a median of 2.6 x 10(6)/kg CD34+ cells, 10 x 10(4)/kg CFU-GM, 5 x 10(4)/kg BFU-E and 0.5 x 10(4)/kg CFU-GEMM per apheresis. All patients transplanted with PBPC had a rapid and sustained hematological recovery. The DHAP regimen followed by G-CSF proved to be a very effective and well-tolerated schedule for debulking disease before transplantation and for enhancing progenitor cell mobilization.
Salvage chemotherapy for refractory transitional cell carcinoma of the ovary (TCC).	Transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the ovary is reportedly more sensitive to first-line chemotherapy and has a better prognosis than the more common serous carcinoma. The purpose of this study was to determine the responsiveness of refractory ovarian TCC to salvage chemotherapy.
Gallium scans in the evaluation of residual masses after chemotherapy for seminoma.	To assess the ability of gallium scans to determine whether residual masses consist of viable tumor or necrotic fibrous tissue after chemotherapy for seminoma.
Double hemibody irradiation with GM-CSF as salvage therapy for refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	We describe a new and original therapy with total body irradiation in two separate 4 gy single courses (double hemibody irradiation) combined with GM-CSF support, 5ug/day on days 1-15 after each hemibody irradiation, for refractory patients with B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). A complete response was observed in a patient with a B-CLL resistant to CAP and FAMP therapy. Overall tolerance was good. The major points of interest in this technique are the combination of the antitumor effect of irradiation, limited bone marrow toxicity and a potential specific anti-leukemia effect of GM-CSF.
Combination of etoposide, cisplatin and ifosfamide (VPH) in the salvage chemotherapy of relapsing or refractory aggressive malignant lymphoma. Study of 51 patients]	Fifty-one patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma refractory or relapsing after CHOP-like regimen, underwent a salvage chemotherapy by VPH: etoposide 100 mg/m2/d, D1 to D3, cisplatin 20 mg/m2/d, D1 to D5, ifosfamide 1 g/m2/d D1 to D5, mesna 1.2 g/m2/d D1 to D5, every 4 weeks. Among 46 evaluable patients for efficacy, 21 (45.6%) achieved complete or partial response according to WHO criteria and 25 (54.3%) failed, while five cases (9.8% of all patients) were not evaluable (two initial complete remission before VPH, two early toxic deaths and one confusional syndrome). Thirty-five patients (68.6%) died of lymphoma, three (5.8%) of acute toxicity and 13 (25.5%) are alive: five in complete remission. The toxicity is mainly myelo-suppression, digestive and renal but could be managed as usually. Although the follow-up is short, this regimen appears effective in these circumstances after CHOP failure but it should be used early, before overt chemoresistance. It does not hinder a bone marrow transplantation programme.
Brachytherapy for lower lip epidermoid cancer: tumoral and treatment factors influencing recurrences and complications.	From 1972 to 1991, 237 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the lower lip were treated by exclusive LDR brachytherapy (192Ir). There were 158 T1, 61 T2, 17 T3 and 1 T4 with 231 N0, 3 N1 and 3 N2 patients. The actuarial values at 5 years for local and regional controls, overall and specific survivals were 95%, 91%, 74% and 91%. Salvage treatment increased local control up to 99% and regional control to 94%. No heterolabial recurrence has been observed since the entire lip is treated, even for small tumors. The regional control depends closely on the thickness of the labial tumor (> or = 1 cm, p < 0.0001). The healing of treatment-induced mucositis is sometimes delayed for thick tumors (> or = 1 cm, p = 0.015). Late complications are not related to tumoral thickness but to the treated thickness (> 1.4 cm, p = 0.018) and particularly to the thickness of normal tissue included in the 85% isodose (treated thickness - tumoral thickness > 0.4 cm, p = 0.025). The use of a leaded protection and low linear radioactivity wires (< 2 mCi/cm, < 8.6 muGy/h.m2/cm) especially for large target volumes is required to lessen late complications. Based on this review, we advocate exclusive brachytherapy for small and intermediate tumors, with elective bilateral submaxillary and submental dissection for thick, high grade or commissure tumors. Simple recommendations are made to assure quality of the brachytherapy treatment.
Preparative regimens for patients with leukemias and severe aplastic anemia (overview): biological basis, experimental animal studies and clinical trials at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center.	Two purposes are served by conditioning regimens for allogeneic BMT. One is to suppress the patient's immune system so the foreign graft can take. The other purpose is to eliminate the underlying disease for which the patient is transplanted. This report reviews the recent developments in areas of conditioning programs for patients with aplastic anemia and hematological malignancies.
The use of umbilical cord blood in mismatched related and unrelated hemopoietic stem cell transplantation.	Over the past 6 years, umbilical cord blood has emerged as an efficacious alternative source of hematopoietic stem cells in related bone marrow transplantation. These encouraging results led us to extend this technology to the mismatched related and unrelated settings in three high-risk leukemic children lacking a matched-related donor for transplantation. Two of the three children also lacked identifiable donors through the National Marrow Donor Program, while the third was in relapse and did not have time to wait for completion of a search. The first child was transplanted with haploidentical umbilical cord blood-derived mononuclear cells from his sister, while the remaining two children were transplanted with partially mismatched, unseparated, unrelated umbilical cord blood banked through the Placental Blood Project at the New York Blood Center. All three children demonstrated trilineage engraftment with donor cells within 6 weeks of transplantation. The patient transplanted with haploidentical marrow developed grade 2 graft vs. host disease (GVHD), which was controlled with steroid and anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) therapy. One of the two patients grafted with unrelated umbilical cord blood developed mild grade 1 GVHD of the skin, which rapidly cleared with steroid therapy. One patient remains alive, in good health and disease-free 12 months from transplantation.
Synovial sarcoma outcome following conservation surgery and radiotherapy.	This retrospective review of 85 patients presents the prognostic factors and disease outcome for localized synovial sarcoma treated with conservation surgery and radiotherapy. Tumors were located in the lower extremity (48), upper extremity (20), trunk (11), and head and neck (6). All patients were treated with limited excision and radiotherapy. Sixty-seven patients had surgery followed by radiation and 18 had preoperative radiation. Postoperative radiation was delivered to a mean dose of 62 Gy, whereas the mean dose for preoperative radiation was 50 Gy. Thirty-five patients, mostly with tumors exceeding 5 cm, received adjuvant adriamycin-based chemotherapy (median adriamycin dose 406 mg/m2). At a median follow-up of 8.4 years the 5-, 10-, and 15-year survival rates were 76%, 63%, and 57%. Mortality was almost entirely due to metastatic relapse. Metastases developed in 36 patients yielding an actuarial 10-year metastatic rate of 48%. In multivariate analysis, tumor size was the dominant determinant of metastases with a lesser contribution due to patient age (those < or = 20 years having fewer metastases). Tumor site and histology were not independently significant. Ten-year metastatic rates according to tumor size, s, were s < or = 2 cm, 0%; 2 < s < or = 5 cm, 35%; 5 < s < or = 10 cm, 59%; 10 cm < s, 100%. Our retrospective data failed to reveal benefits for adjuvant chemotherapy either in univariate or multivariate analysis. Eight patients (9%) had local recurrence as the initial failure and 4 others had local failure after disease appeared elsewhere, yielding a 5-year actuarial local recurrence rate of 14%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Adult Wilms' tumour: review of 22 cases.	The Institut Gustave Roussy experience with nephroblastoma in 22 patients older than 16 years during a 19-year period (1973-1992) was retrospectively reviewed. All patients underwent a nephrectomy. There were 4 stage I, 8 stage II, 3 stage III and 7 stage IV patients. Initial postnephrectomy therapy included single modality approach in 7 patients (radiotherapy in 1 and chemotherapy in 6) and combined modality approach (radiotherapy and chemotherapy) in 15 patients. The agents used most often were actinomycin, vincristine and doxorubicin. 2 of 7 (29%) and 7/15 (47%) patients are disease-free survivors after first-line treatment. Salvage chemotherapy was given in 13 patients. Only 1 patient experienced a subsequent sustained complete remission. After a mean follow-up of 100 months (range 10-240), 12/22 patients (55%) are alive, including 10 who are disease-free (45%). We confirm that adult patients are likely to have more advanced disease and poorer prognosis than children. The combined modality approach is more active than one-modality therapy. Aggressive treatment, including the three-drug regimen actinomycin+vincristine+doxorubicin, regardless of stage, associated to irradiation starting from stage II, is recommended.
Review of postoperative pharmacological infusions in ischemic skin flaps.	No single drug has yet been found which can overcome the inflammatory and microvascular changes which occur in a skin flap after ischemia-reperfusion. Nevertheless, the continued failure of approximately 7% of all free flap transfers clinically suggests that there may be a place for pharmacological intervention at the time of threatened flap failure. To date, plastic and reconstructive microsurgeons have been reluctant to use drugs because of the mass of conflicting evidence emanating from the plastic surgery literature. However, scientists and surgeons now have a clearer understanding of the problems arising in ischemia-reperfusion. Multi-acting drugs which can inhibit most of the important inflammatory changes would be the ideal. This review considers some of the historical developments in the pharmacological treatment of ischemic flaps in the past decade and looks to the future when pharmacological infusions may be part of the routine for salvaging failing skin flaps.
MR signal characteristics of cadaveric bone allografts in three children with primary bone tumors treated with limb salvage therapy.	Three children with adult cadaveric bone allografts for the treatment of bone malignancies are presented. Follow-up magnetic resonance (MR) imaging demonstrated decreased signal on T1-weighted imaging and increased signal on T2-weighted imaging in the allograft without clinical evidence of recurrent disease. These signal characteristics appear to be a normal finding in cadaveric bone allografts and should not be mistaken for recurrence. The finding may reflect persistent marrow necrosis within the allograft marrow cavity.
Treatment of hematological malignancies relapsing after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.	The rate of relapse after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) varies between 15 and 60%. New therapeutic strategies are required urgently as no significant results have been obtained with standard chemotherapy. The best results of second allogeneic BMT have been obtained when the interval between the first and the second transplant was more than 6 to 20 months, depending on the study. Veno-occlusive disease was an important cause of non-leukemic death (13-65%). As the toxicity of second BMT is very high, other treatments have been considered: complete remissions were reported after sudden discontinuation of the immunosuppressive therapy. Interferon-alpha has been used for chronic myeloid leukemia patients and may achieve hematological and cytogenetic complete remission. More recently, donor leucocytes transfusions have been proposed and at least in some cases, have led to molecular complete remission (polymerase chain reaction with double amplification) in chronic myeloid leukemia patients. However, non predictable marrow aplasias and graft-versus-host reactions hamper the efficacy of this strategy. Finally, hemopoietic growth factors used to promote donor cell growth produce interesting results which deserve further studies.
Pregnancy after autologous bone marrow transplantation for malignant lymphomas.	In the present paper, we report two cases of normal pregnancy after high dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) in two of the 72 women belonging to a group of 188 patients transplanted in our unit for advanced malignant lymphoma. These pregnancies occurred 19 and 33 months after high dose therapy in two women aged 27 and 28, neither of whom had received previous total body irradiation or pelvic radiotherapy. There are several reasons for the relatively low frequency of pregnancies after ASCT. In particular, the median age of the patients is 35 years, most of these women are transplanted in relapse and have received previous pretreatment with alkylating agents and the disease free survival rate does not exceed 40%. The preservation of long term fertility should be taken into account when deciding therapeutic options for young women with curable disease.
The role of brachytherapy in the therapeutic strategy of vesico-prostatic rhabdomyosarcoma in children]	Because of its ballistic and physical characteristics, brachytherapy (BT) represents the optimal irradiation treatment in pediatric tumors, especially in prostate or bladder rhabdomyosarcoma. In a limited series of 15 children treated with BT (including three patients treated with salvage BT), 8 out of 9 patients surviving with NED benefited from conservative treatment among 12 patients treated with BT as first-line treatment. Sequelae were minimal consisting of one grade I cystitis and one asymptomatic vesical and ureteral reflux. BT allows administration of high doses to limited volumes sparing normal tissues. BT--whenever possible--represents the treatment of choice compared with external radiotherapy. Indications of BT depend on tumor accessibility and size (usually < or = 4 cm).
The treatment of early squamous cell carcinoma of the piriform fossa.	The treatment of early piriform fossa cancer can be either primary radiotherapy with salvage surgery, if necessary, or with primary surgery. The present study investigates 65 patients with T1, > or = 2 or T3 stage disease with no cervical lymph node metastases at presentation. Of this group, 17 were treated by primary irradiation, 34 underwent primary surgery and 14 were unsuitable for any curative treatment. The adjusted actuarial 5-year survival rate for those patients receiving primary radiotherapy was 55% (95% CI 16-78%) and for the surgery group it was 44% (95% CI 18-67%). This difference was not significant (chi 2(1) = 1.29). The median survival for untreated patients was 7 months (4-12 months). There was no significant differences in the time to recurrence at the primary site or in the neck, or in survival after recurrence at these sites. Thirty-five per cent of patients treated by primary irradiation were controlled at the primary site compared with 68% in the surgical group. Failure in the neck was similar for the two groups at 12% and 15% respectively. Salvage surgery was effective for the radiotherapy group with eight out of 11 patients being suitable for treatment. In the final analysis in the radiotherapy group two patients were alive and with their larynx and two alive without their larynx, the remainder of patients having died from the original tumour, intercurrent disease or second primary tumours. The survival figures for the surgery group were proportionately similar except of course, that all patients had lost their larynx.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Clinico-pathological correlation of T3 glottic carcinomas.	Controversy surrounds the relative merits of radiotherapy and laryngectomy for the treatment of T3 glottic carcinoma. In this study of 82 patients with non-irradiated T3 glottic carcinomas managed by total laryngectomy, 45% had been clinically understaged and were pT4. There was a significant association between subglottic extension and tracheostomy with understaging. A trend to understage anterior commissure tumours was also evident. Nodal status did not influence understaging and therefore should not determine the choice of treatment of the glottic primary. Laryngectomy is recommended for patients with subglottic extension or a tracheostomy. If radiotherapy is to be used for the remaining tumours, then vigilance against understaging is required.
Salvage chemotherapy with pentostatin in prolymphocytic leukemia.	We report 4 cases of prolymphocytic leukemia (PLL) resistant to conventional chemotherapy that were treated with pentostatin. We obtained 1 complete remission (CR) and 2 partial remissions (PR). Our data confirm the effectiveness of this drug in the treatment of prolymphocytic leukemia.
A phase II trial of oral etoposide with mitoxantrone and ifosfamide/mesna consolidated with intravenous etoposide, methylprednisolone, high-dose arabinoside, and cisplatin as salvage therapy for relapsing and/or refractory lymphomas.	To evaluate the response to oral Etoposide when combined with mesna, ifosfamide, and mitoxantrone in patients with relapsed and/or refractory lymphoma. To evaluate response and its duration after administration of intravenous Etoposide, methylprednisolone, high-dose cytosine arabinoside, and cisplatin (ESHAP) as consolidation therapy after complete or partial responses (CR or PR, respectively) or after crossover therapy for progressive disease.
Impact of reinduction regimens for relapsed and refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia in adults.	The clinical outlook for adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has improved with the use of intensive chemotherapy. Complete remissions (CR) are achieved in 80% of adults but the majority relapse on maintenance chemotherapy and a few exhibit primary resistance to induction therapy. This report compares the various salvage treatments and provides guidance in selecting a regimen with the optimum clinical outcome. Regimens using high-dose ara-C (HDAC) in combination with mitoxantrone, amsacrine, or idarubicin are superior to HDAC alone or with L-asparaginase. The sequential administration of methotrexate and L-asparaginase is equally effective. The duration of second CR is short for all chemotherapeutic regimens.
Autologous bone marrow transplantation with alkyl-lysophospholipid-purged marrow.	Autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) appears to offer clinical benefit to leukemia patients, but the major reason for failure is relapse. This may be related to the presence of residual leukemic cells in the harvested marrow. To circumvent this problem, various procedures have been developed to purge ex vivo residual leukemic cells from the marrow. The alkyl-lysophospholipids are a new group of anticancer drugs that target membranes as their major site of action. They are unique in that they are relatively selectively toxic to neoplastic cells and spare normal marrow stem cells and progenitor cells. The most active compound is edelfosine. Twenty-nine patients with acute leukemia in second or subsequent remission or early relapse or in first remission, either with a history of treated extramedullary relapse, or requiring more than one induction program to achieve remission, underwent ablative therapy followed by infusion of autologous marrow which had been purged by a 4-hour exposure to edelfosine prior to cryopreservation. Thirty-one percent of the patients are alive and free of leukemia for a median of 630 days (range 185-1,613). These results in this high-risk group of patients warrant further investigation.
Peripheral stem cell transplantation in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients.	Transplantation of circulating progenitor/stem cells collected before and stored during administration of marrow-ablative antitumor therapy has restored sustained hematopoiesis for patients with a variety of malignancies. One of the most common diseases so treated is refractory or relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Autologous peripheral stem cell transplantation (PSCT) often has been used rather than autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) because NHL commonly involves the bone marrow, and because, in some situations, PSCT provides earlier engraftment than ABMT. Between July 1986 and September 1992, 170 adult patients with refractory or relapsed NHL were treated with high-dose therapy and PSCT at the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). With a median follow-up of 469 days for the evaluable survivors, the actuarial progression-free survival for 167 patients at 6 years after PSCT was 30%. High-dose therapy and PSCT for NHL patients has resulted in long-term progression-free survival and probably cure for some patients. The role of PSCT in this disease continues to evolve.
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura resistant to plasma-exchange: salvage treatment with high-dose IgG or vincristine. Italian Cooperative Group for TTP.	Even though plasma-exchange (PE), either alone or combined with cortisone or platelet anti-aggregating substances is the treatment of choice for TTP, 10-15% of patients is resistant to treatment. Since immunoglobulin (IgG) infusion was reported to cure the clinical symptoms of PE-resistant TTP, and vincristine (VCR) has been recently successful in treating TTP, we reviewed the results obtained with both drugs in 20 PE-resistant patients. Of 12 patients receiving IgG and 8 receiving VCR, 3 (25%) and 4 (50%), respectively, achieved complete remission. Even though no conclusions can be drawn from such results, if complete remission can be achieved in a however small number of PE-resistant patients, the use of these drugs is suggested as a salvage treatment for TTP.
Intensive therapy of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.	In contrast to advances in understanding the biology and natural history of CLL, progress in treatment has been slow. Considerable data indicate that response to therapy is associated with increased survival. Also, more intensive therapy is associated with increased responses. However, few data suggest that this translates into increased survival or cure, even in patients seemingly free of CLL cells using sensitive detection techniques. Preliminary results with allogeneic and autologous bone marrow transplants are promising but controlled or randomized trials are needed to determine survival and/or cure. Several considerations suggest that intensive therapy should be reserved for young persons with adverse prognostic features failing conventional treatment.
Axillopopliteal & aortopopliteal bypass--two case reports.	Two cases of aortopopliteal and axillopopliteal bypass grafts done for limb salvage are reported. These extra-anatomical bypass grafts are valuable in patients who cannot otherwise undergo anatomical bypass grafts.
Infusions of a novel calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) derivative at the time of reperfusion to salvage ischaemic rabbit skin flaps.	Rabbit epigastric skin flaps were subjected to 21 h of ischaemia at 25 degrees C. In the first 40 min of reperfusion the flaps were infused intraarterially with either Hanks' balanced salt solution (controls), chicken CGRP or a derivative DADA-CGRP. Skin biopsies and blood specimens were taken immediately before and after 1-h reperfusion. The aim was to observe the effect of CGRP derivatives on compromised skin-flap survival and to help elucidate the critical biochemical mechanisms. It was found that chicken CGRP and DADA-CGRP produced a dose-dependent increase in blood flow, significant at and above 0.1 microgram/kg, but only the 0.1 microgram/kg DADA-CGRP infusion produced a statistically significant increase in flap survival (75.1%) as compared with controls (41.6%). CGRP infusions caused significantly more rapid restoration of tissue ATP levels and resulted in a smaller rise in blood thromboxane as compared with controls. However, CGRP caused no significant change in the tissue levels of myeloperoxidase, a measure of neutrophil infiltration, and lipid peroxidation, an indicator of free-radical activity. It is concluded that intraarterial CGRP infusions to ischaemic flaps at the time of reperfusion are indicated. However, an ideal infusion solution would also need to counteract free radicals and neutrophils which are believed to also play a major role in the inflammatory response leading to flap failure.
Forequarter amputation for soft tissue tumors.	Forequarter amputation is a radical surgical procedure initially described for the treatment of traumatic injuries in 1908. This procedure has been used more recently in the treatment of soft tissue tumors. This report describes the experience in the Division of Surgical Oncology at the University of Illinois over a 20-year period. Between 1970 and 1991, 10 patients underwent forequarter amputations for malignant disease. Nine of these patients had soft tissue tumors and one a malignant melanoma. Four patients underwent amputation as primary treatment of their tumor, and six underwent the procedure as treatment for recurrent tumor. All patients are presently alive with a mean follow-up of more than 10 years. Three patients had recurrent tumor after the forequarter amputation. One local failure was salvaged with a chest wall resection, and two patients had distant failure. Forequarter amputation remains an effective procedure for local control of tumors of varying histology involving the shoulder girdle and upper arm. The most common indication for this procedure is a recurrent soft tissue tumor for which limb sparing procedures are not applicable. Forequarter amputation should remain a rarely used, but important, surgical option for the treatment of patients with soft tissue tumors.
Therapy of hypopharyngeal cancer. Part II: Review of the literature for using chemotherapy within the scope of multimodality therapy]	Supplemental to the previous publication on the results of surgery and/or radiotherapy, the application of various cytostatic drugs--neoadjuvant, sequential, simultaneous, alternating or adjuvant--in addition to surgery and/or radiotherapy in the treatment of hypopharynx carcinomas is subjected to critical analysis. Exclusively for these carcinomas there are still no results of prospectively randomized studies, although this may reflect their relatively small incidence when compared with all head and neck tumors. Induction chemotherapy (before standard therapy) has been disappointing clinically, at least concerning hypopharynx carcinomas. To date, organ and function preservation with improved survival in these neoplasms has not been shown clearly, even for resectable tumors. Simultaneous radiochemotherapy is obviously superior to sequential chemotherapy and has demonstrated higher remission rates when compared to conventional radiotherapy, but the effectiveness of modified fractionizing patterns must be kept distinct from the effectiveness of simultaneous chemotherapy. Moreover, it must be defined whether the observed decline in the rate of distant metastases after adjuvant chemotherapy entails (statistically) significant higher survival rates. Only with the help of prospective randomized multicenter studies can the true benefits of chemotherapy be verified and specified in the treatment of hypopharynx carcinomas. The results of chemotherapy to date are critically reviewed and future concepts planned.
Significance of a partial or slow response to front-line chemotherapy in the management of intermediate-grade or high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: a literature review.	The purpose of this review was to assess the outcome of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) who achieve an incomplete or slow response to front-line chemotherapy and to determine whether salvage treatment with intensive combination chemotherapy with or without autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) is successful in such patients.
Low grade non-Hodgkin's lymphomas: disease control with mitoxanthrone monotherapy in patients refractory to conventional therapy.	Salvage treatment modalities for refractory low grade non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (LGNHL) are limited. In the present analysis we investigate the effectiveness of mitoxanthrone monotherapy in resistant LGNHL. Fourteen patients from our Unit were studied. Eligibility criteria were as follows: histologic type of LGNHL, performance status 0, 1 or 2, clinical stage II, III or IV, A or B and refractoriness to conventional chemotherapy. The treatment protocol provided intravenous infusion of mitoxanthrone 6 mg/m2 daily for 3 days every three to four weeks. The median number of treatment cycles until now was 4 (1-8). A minimum of 3 cycles was necessary for documentation of response. For the staging and response of our patients well known criteria were used. The term minor response (MR) was introduced for those patients who had less than 50% disease regression. Of the 14 patients one could not be evaluated. Among the remaining 13, one achieved complete remission (CR) (7.7%), six partial remissions (PR) (46.2%), three MR (23%), two remained stable (SD) (15.4%) and one had disease progression (DP) (7.7%). Overall response rate (CR + PR) was 53.9%. Response to treatment was better in patients with less pretreatment (one-two prior treatments) than in heavily pretreated ones (more than three) and this relation was found to be statistically significant (p < 0.05). In addition it seems that follicular small cleaved or mixed lymphoma and patients with less bulky disease responded better, although these differences could not be documented as statistically significant. The follow up of our patients is too short for any meaningful conclusions about the duration of response to be drawn.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recurrent breast cancer following immediate reconstruction with myocutaneous flaps.	As immediate breast reconstruction with rectus abdominis and latissimus dorsi myocutaneous flaps has become a recognized technique for patients requiring mastectomy, concerns have arisen regarding the detection and treatment of locoregional recurrence of breast cancer. Because most recurrences develop in the residual native skin of the chest wall following a mastectomy, breast reconstruction procedures involving the placement of a subpectoral prosthesis are unlikely to interfere with postoperative cancer surveillance. Myocutaneous flaps, however, transpose blocs of soft tissues into the mastectomy site. This study was done to evaluate the influence of a myocutaneous flap on the subsequent diagnosis and treatment of locoregional recurrence of breast cancer. Data were obtained from 161 patients with breast cancer who had immediate reconstruction with a myocutaneous flap between 1982 and 1990. Of the 161 patients reviewed, 120 had primary mastectomy with immediate reconstruction; 41 patients had salvage mastectomy and immediate reconstruction after failed conservative surgery and radiation therapy. Modified radical mastectomy was performed on all patients. Either a rectus abdominis (n = 65) or latissimus dorsi (n = 97) myocutaneous flap breast reconstruction was performed. Recurrent tumor was observed in 17 of the 161 patients reviewed (10.6 percent). Fourteen of the 17 recurrences occurred in 120 patients having primary mastectomy and immediate reconstruction for a rate of 11.7 percent; 3 of 41 patients (7.3 percent) who had salvage mastectomy and flap reconstruction developed recurrences. Of the 17 recurrences, 6 patients were stage II, 10 were stage III, and 1 was stage IV. All 17 patients who developed a recurrence had invasive breast cancer, with infiltrating and inflammatory tumors predominating. All locoregional recurrences of breast cancer developed within the native skin and subcutaneous tissues adjacent to the mastectomy and flap reconstruction site. Recurrences were seen as rapidly as 2 weeks or as long as 3.8 years (mean 1.4) after the mastectomy and flap reconstruction. Overall mean follow-up for the entire group of 161 patients was 5.4 years. Thirteen of the 17 patients (76.5 percent) developed distant metastases either concomitantly with the locoregional recurrence or within 4.3 years (mean 1.7). From an oncologic viewpoint, the technique of myocutaneous flap breast reconstruction with rectus abdominis or latissimus dorsi flaps appears to be a safe one. An analysis of locoregional recurrence of breast cancer in patients undergoing primary mastectomy or salvage mastectomy with myocutaneous flap breast reconstruction did not show concealment by the flap of any recurrent tumor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Esthesioneuroblastoma. Long-term outcome and patterns of failure--the University of Virginia experience.	Esthesioneuroblastoma is a rare tumor arising from olfactory epithelium. This retrospective review analyzed the patterns of failure and long term outcome of patients with esthesioneuroblastoma evaluated at a single institution.
Corticosteroid rescue treatment of progressive fibroproliferation in late ARDS. Patterns of response and predictors of outcome.	Pulmonary fibroproliferation (PFP) is directly or indirectly the leading cause of death in patients with late ARDS. We previously reported our experience using intravenous corticosteroids (IVC) in 8 patients with late ARDS and now have expanded our observation to a total of 25 patients with severe fibroproliferation (mean lung injury score [LIS] 3) and progressive respiratory failure (RF). Thirteen patients had open-lung biopsy before treatment. Patients were started on IVC treatment (IVCT) an average of 15 +/- 7.5 days into mechanical ventilation (MV). Significant physiologic improvement (SPI) to IVCT was defined as a reduction in LIS of greater than 1 point or an increase in PaO2:FIO2 ratio of greater than 100. We observed three patterns of response: rapid responders (RR) had an SPI by day 7 (n = 15); delayed responders (DR) had an SPI by day 14 (n = 6); nonresponders (NR) were without SPI by day 14 (n = 4). Overall the following significant mean changes were seen within 7 days of IVCT: LIS from 3 to 2 (p = 0.001), PaO2:FIO2 from 162 to 234 (p = 0.0004), PEEP from 11 to 6.8 cm H2O (p = 0.001), chest radiograph score from 3.8 to 3.0 (p = 0.009), and VE from 16 to 13.6 L/min (p = 0.01). Development of pneumonia was related to the pattern of response. Surveillance bronchoscopy was effective in identifying pneumonia in eight afebrile patients. Nineteen of 25 (76 percent) patients survived the ICU admission. Comparisons were made between survivors (S) and nonsurvivors (NS) and among the three groups of responders. At the time ARDS developed, no physiologic or demographic variable could discriminate between S and NS. At the time of IVCT, only liver failure was more frequent in nonsurvivors (p = 0.035). Histologic findings at open-lung biopsy and pattern of physiologic response clearly predicted outcome. The presence of preserved alveolar architecture (p = 0.045), myxoid type fibrosis (p = 0.045), coexistent intraluminal bronchiolar fibrosis (p = 0.0045), and lack of arteriolar subintimal fibroproliferation (p = 0.045) separated S from NS. ICU survival rate was 86 percent in responders and 25 percent in nonresponders (p = 0.03). Only one death resulted from refractory respiratory failure.
The role of radiation therapy in the treatment of head and neck cutaneous melanoma.	This study was undertaken to elucidate the efficacy of external beam irradiation in the treatment of head and neck malignant melanoma, in comparison with the efficacy of surgical excision and the efficacy of surgical excision combined with external beam irradiation.
Lower limb ischaemia in the octogenarian: is limb salvage surgery worthwhile?	Vascular surgeons are being asked to manage vascular disease in an increasingly elderly population, and advanced age may be considered a relative contraindication to limb salvage surgery with an amputation seeming the preferred option. We present a review of 50 patients over the age of 80 years, presenting with ischaemic rest pain, ulceration or gangrene of the lower extremity. Six patients were treated conservatively, four of whom died during the same admission. Only two patients proved suitable for transluminal angioplasty as the sole curative procedure. Twelve patients (24%) underwent primary amputation with a perioperative mortality of 3/12 (25%). Five patients (10%) had an iliac bypass procedure, and 25 patients (50%) were considered suitable for infrainguinal bypass. Of the latter group 14 had femoropopliteal bypasses, and 11 had femorodistal bypasses with an overall perioperative mortality of 3/25 (12%). Mortality at 6 months was high (33%) and was similar in both the grafted and amputation groups. Patients having reconstruction fared well in terms of independent mobility, use of long-term care, and length of hospital stay. Patients over 80 years of age with critical ischaemia should not be denied the opportunity of vascular reconstruction.
Testicular cancer.	Although testicular cancer accounts for approximately 1% of all male malignancies, it has a significant impact on the social, economic, and emotional status of the young population in which it occurs. TSE is the best available tool for early detection of testicular cancer. Only 15 to 20 years ago, testicular cancer was often fatal because of the rapidity of metastasis to the lungs and other vital organs. Because of progress in surgical technique and chemotherapy, it is today one of the most curable cancers. The use of serum markers and early diagnosis and treatment are of great importance in the management of testicular cancer.
Multiagent chemotherapy in the salvage cure of ocular lymphoma relapsing after radiotherapy.	The eye has traditionally been regarded as a sanctuary site for drugs, but recent publications have shown evidence of penetration by drugs and subsequent clinical response of intraocular lymphomas. In this report, a chemotherapy regimen, including high dose methotrexate and cytosine arabinoside, was used to re-induce remission in a patient with intraocular lymphoma relapsing locally after prior radiotherapy. She remains disease free 18 months later.
Cardiogenic shock. Coronary angioplasty after failed intravenous thrombolysis]	Rescue coronary angioplasty (PTCA) was employed as reperfusion strategy after unsuccessful intracoronary infusion of streptokinase in 13 patients with AMI complicated by cardiogenic shock (CS). Reperfusion defined as reestablishment of TIMI 3 degree flow in the infarct related artery and reduction in luminal narrowing to less than 50% was achieved in 8 patients (61.5%). The failure of PTCA was caused by: inability to cross occlusion in 2 patients and recurrent thrombosis despite repeated dilatations resulting in hemodynamic instability requiring cardiopulmonary resuscitations during the procedure in 3 patients. There was no significant differences in mean age, sex, time from onset of symptoms, LVEF, artery involved, extent of coronary disease and incidence of cardiopulmonary resuscitations during the procedures. There where 4 in-hospital deaths among patients with failed PTCA (80%) compared to 25% mortality in reperfused group. We conclude that PTCA is an effective method of achieving reperfusion in patients with CS complicating AMI after failed thrombolysis with intracoronary streptokinase and that it improves in-hospital survival.
Current role of radiotherapy in Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Current goals of therapy for patients with Hodgkin's disease include maximizing cure rate while minimizing toxicity, particularly long-term toxicity such as treatment-related second cancers, pulmonary toxicity, and cardiac toxicity. For early-stage patients the need for staging laparotomy, the necessary extent of radiation therapy, and the possibilities of combined modality therapy are current controversies. For patients with stage III disease it is now clear that chemotherapy is an essential component of therapy. Long-term follow-up studies continue to show that a significant number of patients treated for Hodgkin's disease eventually develop solid tumors and acute myelogenous leukemia. Populations most at risk and treatments associated with these risks are being defined. For patients with large-cell lymphoma, anthracycline-containing chemotherapy is the mainstay of therapy, although radiation therapy to sites of bulky disease may have a role.
Chemotherapy for gynecologic malignancies.	Platinum-based chemotherapy is still the cornerstone in the chemotherapeutic approach of ovarian cancer patients. Recent advances include the introduction of paclitaxel in first-line chemotherapy and the demonstrated importance of administering cisplatin intraperitoneally in patients with small-volume disease. DNA repair and apoptosis are increasingly recognized as important processes involved in resistance to chemotherapy. Tamoxifen use is associated with a higher risk of endometrial cancer, with duration and cumulative dose of tamoxifen as additional factors. Hormonal therapy continues to be an important component of treatment of patients with advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer. Combination chemotherapy induces higher response rates in such patients. However, any advantage towards an improved survival remains a controversial issue. Isotretinoin plus interferon alfa-2a for squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix is still a topic of interest. There is a great need for agents and interventions with more efficacy and more specificity for the biology of the different gynecologic malignancies.
CA 125: a valid marker in ovarian carcinoma patients treated with paclitaxel?	Changes in serum CA 125 from baseline do not reflect response to paclitaxel in relapsed ovarian carcinoma patients. Our study aimed to determine whether CA 125 changes relate to tumor response and overall survival during paclitaxel salvage treatment.
Treatment of femoral Ewing's sarcoma.	The treatment of Ewing's sarcoma consists of chemotherapy for systemic and local disease. However, the role of radiation therapy, and/or surgical resection for definitive local treatment has yet to be determined.
A combination of ifosfamide and mitoxantrone as salvage therapy in patients with advanced ovarian cancer.	Ifosfamide (IFX) and mitoxantrone (MXN) have been found to be effective against advanced epithelial ovarian cancer. The combination of these two agents has not yet been tested in this setting but seems to be rational, given the different action mechanisms of these drugs and their not completely overlapping side effects. Between June 1987 and November 1991, 37 patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma recurrent or refractory to primary cisplatin-based chemotherapy entered the study. Therapy consisted of MXN, given i.v. at 10 mg/m2 on day 1 and IFX given i.v. at 2,000 mg/m2 per day on days 1-3 with mesna. The cycles were repeated every 3 weeks. Four patients achieved a complete remission and three achieved a partial remission, for response rates of 18.9% [95% confidence interval (CI) 6.3-31.5%] in the whole sample and 38.8% (95% CI 16.3-61.3%) in the subset of 18 patients responding to first-line cisplatin. No response was obtained in the remaining patients, whose disease was refractory to primary platinum-based chemotherapy. Clinically significant toxicity (WHO grades 3-4) included leukopenia in 46% of the patients and anemia in 32.5%. The non-hematologic toxicity was mild, except for reversible alopecia (57%) and nausea and vomiting (48.5%). This regimen seems attractive for patients who have either failed or not received platinum retreatment, especially when limiting neurotoxicity occurs. Further studies are warranted to establish the relative impact of both of these agents.
Who are the high-risk patients with Hodgkin's disease?	The opinions concerning the prognosis of relapsing Hodgkin's disease (HD) are conflicting, although a number of clinical and biological parameters have been Identified. One reason is the rarity of large scale studies, another is the variability of populations and pretreatments In this particular disease, all factors that influence the relative weight of these parameters. Conversely, a large number of prognostic studies have been published in newly diagnosed HD, whether they concerned advanced or localized patients. Surprisingly, not so many parameters are common to these studies. Therefore, prognostic indexes are hardly usable, except if taken with great prudence. These uncertainties hamper the possibilities of conducting ample controlled studies designed to assess the best treatment modalities for high-risk HD, for both advanced or localized patients.
A prospective, randomized trial of autologous bone marrow transplantation and chemotherapy in multiple myeloma. Intergroupe Franais du Mylome.	The median survival of patients with myeloma after conventional chemotherapy is three years or less. Promising results have been reported with high-dose therapy supported by autologous bone marrow transplantation. We conducted a randomized study comparing conventional chemotherapy and high-dose therapy.
Chemosensitive epidural spinal cord disease in non-Hodgkins lymphoma.	Epidural spinal cord disease (ESCD), an infrequent complication of systemic non-Hodgkins lymphoma (NHL), can occur at diagnosis or at relapse, and is usually treated with radiotherapy, or infrequently surgical decompression. We retrospectively analyzed 140 patients with intermediate-grade NHL (IG-NHL) who were treated on a dose-intense protocol using doxorubicin, vincristine, and high-dose cyclophosphamide (NHL-15). There were seven episodes of ESCD in six (4.3%) patients. Five episodes were asymptomatic at presentation; one patient had back pain, leg numbness, and tingling; and one had radicular pain and mild leg weakness. None had malignant cells in the CSF. One patient received high-dose dexamethasone after laminectomy for diagnostic biopsy; otherwise, dexamethasone was used only as an anti-emetic prior to chemotherapy. Patients who developed ESCD at diagnosis received the planned course of NHL-15 chemotherapy as treatment for ESCD, and those treated with NHL-15 who developed ESCD at relapse were given a regimen containing ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide (ICE). After chemotherapy alone, five of seven episodes showed radiographic resolution of ESCD and improvement of neurologic deficits. One patient received consolidation radiotherapy (2,700 cGy) to the spine after ICE for relapsed ESCD and had a complete response. One patient had progression of systemic lymphoma and ESCD despite chemotherapy. These data suggest that chemotherapy may be effective as initial treatment of ESCD in IG-NHL and may reduce the potential complications of spinal surgery and radiotherapy.
Management of minor salivary gland carcinomas.	To assess the role of radiotherapy alone or in combination with surgery in the treatment of patients with malignant minor salivary gland carcinomas.
Critical appraisal of watchful waiting policy in the management of N0 neck of advanced laryngeal carcinoma.	To analyze the problem of nodal recurrence of N0 neck advanced laryngeal carcinoma.
Salvage surgery for ileal pouch outlet obstruction.	Sixteen patients with ileal pouch outlet mechanical obstruction had major abdominal revision of the ileoanal anastomosis. Before operation all had severe difficulty in evacuation which required catheterization in 11. Eleven patients had a long efferent limb and/or long anorectal cuff, and five had a persistent stricture at the ileoanal anastomosis. None had pouchitis. The pouch was fully mobilized abdominally and the obstructing lesion resected. A new handsewn ileoanal anastomosis was formed. In two cases pouch volume was increased by incorporating an additional loop of ileum. All anastomoses but one were covered by a loop ileostomy. There were no deaths. Major complications occurred in two patients. Function was assessed in 15 patients; in one the ileostomy had not been closed. Median (interquartile range) frequency of defaecation per 24 h fell from 15 (7.3-19.5) to 6 (4.5-6.0) (P = 0.0033). Of the 11 patients who required a catheter before operation six evacuated spontaneously, three were improved but intubated on some occasions and two were unchanged after revisional surgery. Of the ten incontinent patients, five became continent, four were improved and one remained unchanged. There was a new continence disturbance in four (minor nocturnal in three) of the remaining five patients. One patient underwent further abdominal salvage surgery and another required establishment of an ileostomy because of poor function. Combined abdominoanal salvage surgery for outlet mechanical obstruction was successful in averting an ileostomy in 13 of 16 patients, and significantly improved pouch function in 12 of 15.
Treatment of refractory AML.	Refractory AML is variously defined. MD Anderson data indicate that patients with AML that stayed in first remission for less than 2 years are incurable with standard chemotherapy regimens, hence meriting a definition of refractory; the prognosis of patients whose first remissions are longer is on average similar to that of untreated patients. Within the refractory group, Hiddeman et al' s definition (Leukemia 1990; 4: 184-188) is elaborated to account for the number of courses of initial therapy and for response to prior salvage regimens. If patients with refractory AML cannot receive an allogeneic transplant, the standard of therapy should be investigational chemotherapy regimens. A new Bayesian pre-phase II designed is described for use in testing such regimens.
Partially mismatched related donor transplants as salvage therapy for patients with refractory leukemia who relapse post-BMT.	Patients who relapse post-ABMT are usually resistant to conventional therapy, and a potentially curative therapy with allogeneic BMT is limited due to availability of a matched donor. To assess whether such patients can be salvaged using partially mismatched related donors (PMRD), eight patients age 6-50 years old underwent PMRD-BMT. All patients ALL (n = 3) and AML (n = 5) were in relapse 7-31 months after first BMT. Donors (1-3 Ag mismatch) were selected from family members. Conditioning included TBI, etoposide, Ara-C and cytoxan (n = 3), or busulfan, thiotepa, and etoposide (n = 5). GVHD prophylaxis consisted of partial T cell depletion followed by systemic immunosuppression. All evaluable patients established sustained engraftment by day 18. Severe regimen-related toxicity was evident in the gastrointestinal and hepatic systems (6/8 and 4/8, respectively), the latter associated with poor outcome (P < 0.014). Acute but not chronic GVHD, grade > or = II occurred in 3/7 patients. Four of eight patients are disease-free, maintaining longer remission than following their first BMT (14 vs 9 months). In conclusion, our data shows that PMRD-BMT is a feasible option for patients who relapse post-BMT and use of such alloreactive grafts may be appropriate earlier in the disease course of high risk patients.
Ifosfamide in the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Ifosfamide has been used extensively for the treatment of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). This review is limited to published series in which 30 or more evaluable patients were treated in a prospective, uniform fashion either with ifosfamide alone or in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents. Studies in which ifosfamide was used solely as part of a high-dose chemotherapy preparative regimen with autologous hematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation are not included. Three different applications of ifosfamide are addressed: (1) ifosfamide as a single agent and in combination chemotherapy for patients with previously treated NHL, (2) ifosfamide in combination chemotherapy for patients with newly diagnosed, aggressive NHL; and (3) ifosfamide in combination chemotherapy as consolidation for patients with aggressive NHL in first complete remission.
Dose-intensive ifosfamide for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) who either fail to achieve or relapse following an initial complete remission have a poor prognosis with conventional salvage chemotherapy. Patients with chemotherapy-sensitive NHL have a 45% chance of long-term disease-free survival with high-dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT). Patients with chemotherapy-resistant NHL have a significantly reduced chance of long-term disease-free survival. Ifosfamide, a synthetic analogue of cyclophosphamide, has been evaluated in a few small trials of high-dose chemotherapy and ABMT in lymphoma. Because of their clinical synergy, ifosfamide has been combined with carboplatin and etoposide (ICE) and given with ABMT in several phase I/II dose-escalating studies. Maximum tolerated doses of the ICE regimen in these trials are 16 to 20.1 g/m2 ifosfamide, 1.8 g/m2 carboplatin, and 1.2 to 3.0 g/m2 etoposide. Renal, central nervous system, and cardiac toxicities have precluded further dose escalation. Sequential dosing protocols, administration of high-dose chemotherapy with peripheral blood progenitor cell support, and other approaches, possibly combining current treatment options, may be necessary to further improve the long-term survival of patients with relapsed NHL.
Ifosfamide in the treatment of breast cancer.	Ifosfamide is an alkylating agent that has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of several malignancies. Preclinical data also support non-cross-reactivity between cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide in several cell lines. These data suggest that ifosfamide may be highly effective in the salvage setting for breast cancer patients who have received previous treatment with cyclophosphamide. Unfortunately, the available data on ifosfamide use in advanced disease are derived from poorly designed studies that evaluated various patient populations and dosing schedules. This review examines the efficacy of ifosfamide in salvage therapy for breast cancer and emphasizes the need to determine the optimal dosing schedule for ifosfamide used as a single agent or in combination chemotherapy for advanced breast cancer.
Ifosfamide in the treatment of ovarian cancer.	Ifosfamide has been assessed in the treatment of ovarian cancer for more than two decades. The drug possesses well-documented but modest activity (10% to 15% range) in women with platinum/alkylating agent-resistant ovarian cancer. A potentially important ongoing clinical trial is attempting to define the level of activity of ifosfamide administered in the salvage setting to patients with advanced ovarian cancer who have been previously treated with a platinum drug plus paclitaxel but not an alkylating agent.
Ifosfamide in the treatment of germ cell tumors.	Ifosfamide is currently the third most active agent in the treatment of germ cell cancer, behind cisplatin and etoposide. Ifosfamide has single-agent activity comparable to etoposide in very poor-prognosis, cisplatin-refractory disease. In the salvage setting, ifosfamide-based combination chemotherapy can be expected to achieve disease-free status in approximately 50% of cisplatin-sensitive testicular cancer patients, although half of these patients will eventually relapse. As first-line therapy in previously untreated poor-risk patients, ifosfamide-based chemotherapy is therapeutically equivalent to standard therapy but associated with increased toxicity, especially myelosuppression. The role of high-dose ifosfamide in dose-intensive carboplatin/etoposide regimens for the treatment of recurrent disease is unknown and awaits clarification in future research. Current research with this drug continues primarily in the realm of refining ifosfamide-based salvage therapy.
Do positive resection margins after ablative surgery for head and neck cancer adversely affect prognosis? A study of 352 patients with recurrent carcinoma following radiotherapy treated by salvage surgery.	It is generally accepted by surgeons that failure to eradicate malignant disease at the primary site has an adverse effect on survival. The present study investigates 352 patients with squamous carcinoma of the head and neck treated by primary radical radiotherapy and who subsequently underwent surgical ablation for a recurrent carcinoma. A total of 303 (86%) patients had a negative resection margin and 49 (14%) had a positive resection margin. Oral carcinoma was 1.7 times more likely to be associated with a positive margin than other tumours (P = 0.0292). Actuarial calculations demonstrated that 47% of patients with negative margins and 66% of patients with positive margins developed a primary site recurrence (P = 0.0286). Neck node recurrence occurred in 10% of those patients with negative margins and 12% of patients with positive margins. Patients with positive margins had a significantly poorer survival than those with negative margins (P = 0.022). Multivariate analysis failed to confirm any independent adverse effect from a positive margin. The 5 year tumour-specific survival of patients with a positive margin was poorer by 12% than for those patients with a negative margin. The pattern of failure differed between the two groups, with patients having positive margins tending to die of local recurrence.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma with metastatic disease to mediastinal and hilar lymph nodes: an indication for more aggressive treatment.	Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a highly chemo- and radiosensitive tumour, distinctive from other head and neck squamous cell carcinomas. Distant metastatic rates correlate directly with T and N stages. The prognosis of metastatic NPC is grave and long term survivors are anecdotal. We encountered an 18-year-old man with locoregionally advanced NPC, who was initially treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy, but subsequently relapsed 6 months later in the superior mediastinal and right hilar nodal regions. Further chemotherapy and consolidation radiotherapy resulted in complete remission. He is currently alive and free of disease 5 years and 6 months after the completion of salvage treatment. We recommend aggressive treatment of NPC with isolated intrathoracic nodal relapse and imaging of the mediastinum for non-metastatic Ho's Stage N3 NPC patients.
Chemotherapy for ovarian germ cell tumours.	59 patients were treated for newly diagnosed metastatic ovarian germ cell tumours with POMB/ACE chemotherapy (which contains cisplatinum, vincristine, methotrexate, bleomycin, actinomycin D, cyclophosphamide and etoposide). The median follow-up was 7.7 years. The 3 year survival is 87.8% (95% confidence interval 76.9-93.9%) and no relapses occurred more than 3 years after treatment. 4 (7%) patients had primary drug resistance to POMB/ACE and 4 (7%) have relapsed. One patient in complete remission developed secondary acute myeloid leukaemia after receiving a total of 1.3 g/m2 etoposide. 6 of 12 (50%) patients referred at relapse were salvaged by POMB/ACE. 14 of 33 (42%) women (> 18 years old) have had successful pregnancies after fertility conserving surgery and chemotherapy with no congenital abnormalities reported. The POMB/ACE regimen is as efficacious as other published regimens for ovarian germ cell tumours (OGCT) and balances a low incidence of life-threatening toxicity with a high success rate.
Total lymphoid irradiation as rescue therapy after heart transplantation.	Allograft dysfunction develops in a proportion of heart transplant recipients without significant cellular infiltrate in endomyocardial biopsies and with normal coronary arteries at angiography. The mechanisms responsible for this presentation are unclear, and the prognosis is poor. We report encouraging experience with total lymphoid irradiation given in addition to cyclosporine A, cyclophosphamide, and prednisolone therapy in three heart transplant recipients with poor graft function with normal endomyocardial biopsies and coronary angiography.
Late relapsing childhood lymphoblastic leukemia.	Childhood lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is usually assumed to have been permanently eradicated in patients in long-term remission, but occasionally can recur after many years. To learn more about the problem, we studied a group of children whose leukemia had been in remission for 10 or more years before relapse and tried to determine whether they had true recurrences or second malignancies. We studied children treated on Medical Research Council ALL protocols between 1970 and 1984 and followed up by the Clinical Trial Service Unit in Oxford. Detailed clinical and laboratory data was collected from the centers concerned on all who were reported to have had a recurrence of their leukemia after 10 or more years from the time of achieving first complete remission (CR1). To prove that the relapse was a true recurrence rather than a second or secondary leukemia, DNA extracted from archived marrow smears was subjected to polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis for the presence of an identical Ig heavy chain (IgH) or T-cell receptor (TCR) gene rearrangement at initial diagnosis and subsequent relapse. A total of 1,134 of 2,746 children had survived 10 years or more (range, 10 to 24 years) in CR1 and of those, 12 (approximately 1%) had subsequently relapsed. Relapse blast cells were shown to express the common ALL antigen (CD 10) in all cases and an identical clonal IgH or TCR gene rearrangement was found on PCR analysis of DNA from diagnosis and relapse in all eight cases where DNA extraction was successful. A further program of therapy was successful in inducing a second CR in all patients, four of whom have succumbed to a second relapse after 12 to 27 months. The remaining eight are in continuing CR2 at a follow-up of 12 to 108 months (median, 52) from relapse. Although the risk of relapse of childhood ALL after 10 years in remission appears to be small (around 1%), it persists. This raises questions about how blasts can survive quiescent for so long and when we can truly be confident of cure, if ever.
Importance of a multidisciplinary approach to metastatic cancer of the rectum]	Management of rectal cancers with synchronous metastasis is difficult. We evaluated in 23 patients a combination of pelvic radiotherapy at the dose of 45 Gy in 5 weeks and 25 fractions with chemotherapy by 5-fluorouracil (350 mg/m2/day) and folinic acid (20 mg/m2/day) for 5 days at the time of the first and the fifth week of the irradiation. Surgery was indicated firstly in cases of stricture or secondarily for resection of the primary location and, when possible, of the metastasis. General state of health of the patients improved in 35%, symptomatology in 86% and comfort in 72% of the cases. Response rates for the primary tumor were 41% of partial response and 50% of stable disease. For the metastatic lesions, they were 9% and 59% respectively. Sixty-one per cent of patients were secondarily operated with resection of the primary tumor in 12 cases and of hepatic metastases in 2 cases. The median survival and the median survival without progression were respectively 13 and 9 months. Radiochemotherapy combination as the first treatment was beneficial in 4/5 of the patients presenting a rectal cancer with synchronous metastasis and allowed us to select those that would secondarily benefit from a surgical resection.
Circumferential pharyngolaryngectomy with total esophagectomy for locally advanced carcinomas.	Forty-nine cases of circumferential pharyngolaryngectomy with total esophagectomy (PLTE) done between 1982 and 1996 were studied retrospectively. These procedures were performed for advanced squamous cell tumors of the superior esophageal sphincter (n = 23), for hypopharyngeal tumors with synchronous esophageal carcinoma (n = 15), and for hypopharyngeal tumors extensively invading the cervical esophagus (n = 11).
Prognosis of hematological patients with relapse following high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation]	A retrospective analysis of the outcome for 283 haematological patients who relapsed after high dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation during a five year period from 1989 to 1994 is presented. The patients were treated in accordance with local regimes at 20 Nordic transplantation centers and included patients with acute leukemia (157 patients), multiple myeloma (16 patients) and lymphoma (110 patients). Two hundred and twenty-nine patients with relapse or progressive disease were given chemo- and/or radiotherapy and the response was evaluated after 90 days. Fifty-four patients (24%) obtained a complete remission and 44 patients (19%) partial remission. The overall median survival after relapse was five months. In the group who received salvage treatment the median survival was seven months, and for the 54 patients in complete remission the median survival was 15 months. We found that survival after relapse depends upon primary disease, the time from transplantation to relapse and whether salvage therapy was initiated.
Radioimmunotherapy of lymphomas and leukemias]	Radioimmunotherapy offers an exciting new therapeutic modalities for patients with recurrent hematologic malignancies or resistant to conventional chemotherapy. Clinical trials involving hematologic malignancies have produced more impressive results than these involving solid tumors. In recurrent non Hodgkin's lymphoma Seattle trials have demonstrated objective responses in 90% of patients, complete responses in 85% of patients, a progression free survival of 62%, and an overall survival of 93% with a median follow-up of 2 years. In recurrent acute myelogenous leukemia, or myelodysplasia treated with radiolabeled antibodies, total body irradiation, and high dose chemotherapy 67% of patients remain disease free with a median follow-up of 33 months.
Adjuvant chemotherapy for high-risk urothelial transitional cell carcinoma: the Princess Margaret Hospital experience.	To review the outcome of adjuvant systemic chemotherapy after surgery for patients with locally advanced urothelial transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder and upper urinary tract who were at high risk for recurrence or metastatic spread.
Quality of life and voice in patients with laryngeal carcinoma: a posttreatment comparison of laryngectomy (salvage surgery) versus radiotherapy.	This study was designed to compare the voice and the quality of life (QOL) of laryngeal cancer patients receiving treatment with radical radiotherapy with or without laryngectomy as salvage surgery. We also compared the patients' own perceptual ratings of their voice to the perceptual ratings of a group of listeners.
Salvage esophagectomy after unsuccessful curative chemoradiotherapy for squamous cell cancer of the esophagus.	Surgery was performed on 6 patients after unsuccessful chemoradiotherapy for squamous cell cancer of the esophagus. The operation was very difficult due to post-irradiation sequelae in 5. The postoperative period was uneventful in 4 patients. Median intensive care unit stay and hospitalization were 5 and 47 days, respectively. Survival after surgery reached 44 months in 1 patient (59 months after diagnosis). Outcome was better in patients who had surgery after recurrence rather than after nonresponse to chemoradiotherapy. Salvage esophagectomy can be beneficial, in selected patients, after unsuccessful chemoradiotherapy for cancer of the esophagus by providing longer survival and better quality of life despite operative and postoperative morbidity.
Quality of life in patients undergoing salvage procedures for locally recurrent prostate cancer.	As patients are being treated for prostate cancer at a younger age, a significant number of them will ultimately fail the primary treatment and will be candidates for potentially curative salvage therapy. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of salvage therapy for locally recurrent prostate cancer upon the patients' quality of life.
Paclitaxel and cisplatin as salvage treatment in patients with non-seminomatous germ cell tumour who failed to achieve a complete remission on induction chemotherapy.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of paclitaxel and cisplatin combination chemotherapy as salvage treatment in patients with non-seminomatous germ cell tumour. Sixteen patients with histologically proven germ cell tumour, measurable disease and/or elevated serum tumour markers were eligible for the protocol. All patients had previously not achieved a complete remission (CR) to platinum-based induction chemotherapy and cytoreductive surgery. The treatment consisted of paclitaxel 175-225 mg/m2 as a 3-hour infusion, followed by cisplatin 100 mg/m2, repeated every 3 weeks for up to four cycles. Seven patients achieved a marker-positive partial remission (PR) by the end of the cisplatin-based induction chemotherapy; the remainder had disease progression at the start of the paclitaxel plus cisplatin treatment. One (6%) CR and 3 (19%) PRs were achieved, with an overall response rate of 25% (90% confidence interval 7-43). The duration of the CR is currently 9+ months; two PRs lasted 2 months. One patient with a PR has been lost to follow-up. During a median follow-up of 8 months (range 1-11), 12 patients died from the disease progression. The median survival for the whole group was 7 months. Toxicity was moderate, with neutropenia grade 3 occurring in 29% of patients, thrombocytopenia grade 1-3 in 29%, creatinine > 130 mmol/l in 36%, peripheral neuropathy grade 1-2 in 50%, and nausea and vomiting in 43%. Paclitaxel plus cisplatin showed modest activity, with an overall response rate of 31% in patients with poor prognosis who had not achieved a CR on induction chemotherapy.
An institutional experience with cervical vagus nerve trunk stimulation for medically refractory epilepsy: rationale, technique, and outcome.	Intermittent stimulation of the left cervical vagus nerve trunk is emerging as a novel adjunct in the treatment of medically refractory seizures. We sought to evaluate theoretical and practical issues attendant to this concept. We review the anatomic and physiological background arguing for clinical application of vagus nerve stimulation, discuss salient aspects of patient selection and the nuances of surgical technique, and present our observations of and results from application of the method.
High-dose megestrol acetate in the treatment of patients with ovarian cancer who have undergone previous treatment: Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Study PD884.	High-dose megestrol acetate has been reported to be effective salvage therapy for women with ovarian carcinoma. The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performed this phase II study of oral megestrol acetate, 200 mg four times daily until disease progression, in 33 patients either with stage III or IV histologically confirmed ovarian carcinoma or with unresectable tumor in the pelvis with measurable or evaluable disease who progressed after treatment with one prior chemotherapy regimen. Thirty and 31 patients were evaluable for response and toxicity, respectively. No patient had an objective response and none had subjective improvement after a median treatment period of 1.4 months. Nausea or vomiting occurred in most patients, usually grade 1-2. Megestrol acetate is ineffective salvage therapy for patients with inoperable, previously treated ovarian carcinoma.
Advances in the diagnosis and treatment of infections caused by herpesvirus and JC virus]	During the last two years important advances in the diagnosis and treatment of cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease have occurred. Several studies have suggested that biologic markers of CMV viremia (PCR, branched DNA and pp65 antigenemia) might be useful both to stratify the risk of developing CMV disease and to follow the response of CMV retinitis to therapy. It has been shown that patients who are plasma CMV PCR positive have a risk of developing CMV disease three times higher than patients who are plasma CMV PCR negative. In addition, for each log10 increase of the CMV viral load there is a 3-fold higher risk of developing CMV disease. Currently, therapeutic options for induction treatment of CMV retinitis (CMVR) are: i.v. ganciclovir (GCV), i.v. foscarnet, i.v. cidofovir or GCV intraocular implant combined with oral GCV. For maintenance therapy options are: i.v. GCV (3, 5 or 7 days per week), oral GCV (only for peripheral retinitis), i.v. foscarnet (daily), i.v. cidofovir (biweekly) and GCV intraocular implant (replaced every 6-8 months) combined with oral GCV. There is currently enough evidence to allow the diagnosis of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) based on the finding of JC virus DNA in CSF by PCR. There are still no drugs with proven clinical efficacy against JC virus but the possibility that HAART treatments might improve the control of this disease appear promising.
Bendamustine as salvage treatment in patients with advanced progressive breast cancer: a phase II study.	A phase II pilot study of bendamustine as salvage treatment in patients with advanced breast cancer was performed to determine the objective response rates and make further observations on the toxicity of this drug. A group of 37 patients, pretreated with chemotherapy for advanced disease, entered the trial. Treatment consisted of 150 mg/m2 bendamustine on days 1 and 2 of a 4-week treatment course. Patients continued to receive treatment until complete remission and then two further courses, until tumour progression or unacceptable toxicity ensued. A total of 36 patients received at least one treatment course and were assessable for toxicity; 33 patients were evaluable for treatment results. Dose-limiting grade 3 and 4 WHO toxicity occurred in 5 and 3 patients respectively; 27% of patients entered complete or partial tumour remission. The median time to tumour progression was 2 months with a range of 1-14 months. The efficacy of bendamustine was apparently independent of pretreatment with anthracyclines, suggesting a lack of cross-resistance between bendamustine and anthracyclines. It can be concluded that bendamustine in the dose and application schedule used here is active in the salvage therapy of women with advanced breast cancer. The toxicity was acceptable. Future studies have to confirm the data of this pilot trial and to define the role of bendamustine in the combination chemotherapy of metastatic breast cancer that has been suggested by previous trials.
Results of salvage abdominoperineal resection for anal cancer after radiotherapy.	Nonsurgical treatment of anal cancer by radiotherapy alone or combined with chemotherapy is the standard therapy for epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal. Surgery is only recommended for treatment failures. Very few studies have been devoted to the outcome of this salvage surgery. The aim of this study is to evaluate these results.
Use of a jejunal pouch with ileal interposition in salvage surgery after restorative proctocolectomy.	A novel technique is described for pouch reconstruction after failed restorative proctocolectomy and pouch excision.
Therapy of acute myeloid leukemia: towards a patient-oriented, risk-adapted approach.	The successful use of differentiating treatment for patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) suggests that other acute myeloid leukemias (AML) may benefit from tailored and subtype-specific therapy. Despite the fact that new drugs specifically targeting AML genetic lesions have not yet been developed, distinct karyotypic categories have been identified which may deserve differentiated treatment. In addition, molecular assays to assess response to therapy more sensitively are now available for several AML subsets. In this review, we discuss the role of genetic characterization in the therapy of AML, and the investigative efforts which we believe are still needed for the design of tailored treatment for each and every patient with this disease.
Conservative treatment of bladder cancers with radiotherapy and concurrent chemotherapy: results and perspectives]	Therapeutic strategies for muscle invasive bladder cancer are currently evolving. Transurethral surgery followed by concurrent chemotherapy and radiotherapy is the best treatment for patients not suitable for radical cystectomy. This conservative approach may be proposed for operable patients with similar survival than after cystectomy. Intermediate evaluation of response is necessary, as response is the more discriminant prognostic factor for local control. Non responders would be assigned for immediate cystectomy. Morbidity and results of salvage cystectomy are poorly evaluated and probably depending from time from initial treatment and dose of radiation.
Muscle transposition flap for salvage of exposed peripheral prosthetic vascular grafts.	Infection of prosthetic vascular grafts, although infrequent, is a dreadful complication in vascular surgery. It is a challenge for the surgeon and is life- and limb-threatening to the patient. Conventionally, infection involving a foreign body is eradicated by removing the foreign body. Despite its theoretical appeal, this solution is fraught with danger--a high mortality rate that ranges between 10% and 30%, a high rate of protracted postoperative morbidity, and a limb amputation rate as high as 70%. The salvage of infected prosthetic vascular grafts by prompt soft-tissue coverage with transposition muscle flaps in 3 consecutive patients treated during a period of 12 years is the subject of this report.
The surgical treatment of a haemophilic pseudotumour in an extremity: a report of three cases with pathological fractures.	A haemophilic pseudotumour is a rare complication of haemophilia occurring in 1-2% of patients with a factor VIII or IX deficiency. This report presents three surgical cases of pseudotumours involved in a pathological fracture in the extremities. All cases showed a favourable post-operative course. If the preoperative management is appropriately designed, a limb salvage operation for a pathological fracture due to a pseudotumour could be carried out successfully. Before choosing amputation of a limb, the surgeon should consider the possibility of limb salvage.
