Fate of bypass grafts onto totally occluded coronary arteries.	Chronically occluded coronary arteries often develop good collateralisation, that leads to retrograde perfusion of these vessels, as regularly seen in coronary angiograms. Retrograde perfusion constitutes a form of competitive flow, which in turn is associated with an increased risk for early bypass graft failure. The aim of our study is to investigate the patency rate of bypass grafts onto totally occluded coronary arteries, in the presence of retrograde flow.
The role of the large superficial vein in survival of proximally based versus distally based sural veno-neuro-fasciocutaneous flaps in a rabbit model.	A sural veno-neuro-fasciocutaneous flap in the New Zealand White rabbit was developed, and the role of the large subcutaneous lesser saphenous vein was investigated in proximally based versus distally based flaps. Retrograde dye injection showed that the lesser saphenous vein in rabbits has many valves with strong resistance against reflux. Twenty rabbits were randomly allocated into four groups of 10 flaps each. Group I consisted of proximally based flaps with the lesser saphenous vein intact (outflow) in the veno-neuro-adipofascial pedicle. Group II also consisted of proximally based flaps but the lesser saphenous vein was ligated at 1 cm proximal to the pedicle. Group III consisted of distally based flaps with the lesser saphenous vein intact (inflow) in the veno-neuro-adipofascial pedicle. Group IV also consisted of distally based flaps, but the lesser saphenous vein was ligated at 1 cm distal to the pedicle. The results showed that the mean flap survival area in group I (88.8 percent) was statistically higher than that in group II (62.6 percent, p < 0.001), and was higher in group IV (55.5 percent) than in group III (22.7 percent, p < 0.01). However, group II and group IV had no significant difference (p > 0.05). This experiment demonstrated that flap viability is determined by its intrinsic vascularization, both arterial and venous. The large superficial subcutaneous vein has a positive role (venous outflow) in proximally based flaps but a negative role (venous inflow) in distally based flaps. If the effect of the large subcutaneous vein is excluded, distally based flaps are not inherently inferior to proximally based flaps.
Role of Ca2+-activated K+ channels on adrenergic responses of human saphenous vein.	We studied the participation of K(+) channels on the adrenergic responses in human saphenous veins as well as the intervention of dihydropyridine-sensitive Ca(2+) channels on modulation of adrenergic responses by K(+) channels blockade.
Alpha-adrenoceptors in vascular smooth muscle: all is not well.	Studies of binding interactions and contractile responses of vascular muscles at alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors revealed the following. (1) Agonists at alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors may achieve selectivity by virtue of different efficacies despite similar affinities at the two receptors as well as by differing affinities. This implies that their potencies in binding studies may not correlate with potencies in response and that an agonist may produce positive or negative interactions by occupying both alpha 1- and alpha 2-receptors. (2) Agonists at alpha 2-adrenoceptors have the ability in some vascular muscles to release internal Ca2+ (implying an inositol triphosphate mechanism) as well as open Ca2+ channels. However, their contractile abilities are not closely related to function of Na+/H+ or Na+/Ca2+ exchange sites. Amiloride derivatives probably inhibit contractile effects of alpha-agonists and K+ elevation by an action at sites distal to the receptor or Ca channels. (3) The failure of alpha 2-agonists to contract arteries in vitro is not related to the absence of these receptors but most likely to their uncoupling from contractile responses, possibly owing to changes related to the in vitro condition (loss of modulating endogenous substances present in vivo such as angiotensin II or endothelins or to changed physical conditions such as may alter function of stretch-activated channels).
Regulated expression of PDGF A-chain mRNA in human saphenous vein smooth muscle cells.	Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) may be an important regulator of vascular smooth muscle cell (SMC) replication and migration in vivo. Platelets, macrophages, endothelial cells, and SMC are all potential sources of PDGF in the vessel wall. In this study, we have examined the regulation of PDGF gene expression using human SMC cultured in vitro. These cells express transcripts encoding the PDGF A-chain, but not the B-chain. The addition of serum, phorbol ester, acidic fibroblast growth factor, transforming growth factor-beta, or tumor necrosis factor-alpha to serum-starved SMC increased PDGF A-chain mRNA levels. The cytokines interleukin-1 and -6 had no detectable effect. These results indicate that SMC present at sites of injury or inflammation may express elevated levels of PDGF-AA, which could act locally in an autocrine or paracrine manner.
Does the great saphenous vein stripping improve arterial leg blood flow during exercise?	It has been shown that the leg muscle pump increases arterial leg blood flow during upright exercise in healthy subjects, and that this effect is reduced in patients with incompetence of the great saphenous vein (GSV). In this study, patients with GSV reflux causing varicose veins were investigated after GSV stripping, to see whether the muscle pump effect on arterial leg blood flow is improved.
Effects of calcium channel blockade in canine saphenous veins after storage at -190 degrees C.	1. Canine saphenous veins were investigated in vitro either within 24 h after removal or after storage at -190 degrees C for 4-5 weeks of foetal calf serum containing 1.8 M dimethyl sulphoxide. 2. Contractions and 45Ca2+ uptake in response to both depolarization and guanfacine were studied in the absence and presence of the calcium channel antagonists diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine and the two stereoisomers of a 1,4-dihydropyridine derivative, namely the (+)-(S) enantiomer and the (-)-(R) enantiomer of 202-791 (isopropyl 4-(2,1,3-benzoxadiazol-4-yl)-1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-5-nitro-3- pyridinecarboxylate). 3. Comparison of the data obtained on unfrozen and frozen/thawed veins revealed a good preservation of both contractile responsiveness and 45Ca2+ uptake mechanisms after storage at -190 degrees C. 4. It is suggested that cryopreservation is a useful technique for storing venous smooth muscle for pharmacological studies.
Comparison of two laser Doppler flowmeters for the monitoring of dermal blood flow.	Laser Doppler flowmetry (LDF) is a noninvasive and continuous method of monitoring dermal blood flow in free flaps. There are two LDFs available for clinical application: the LD5000 Laser Doppler Perfusion Monitor and the Periflux Laser Doppler Flowmeter. Varying degrees of arterial (N = 46) and venous (N = 28) occlusion were induced in saphenous island flaps of the dog, while simultaneous measurements with the LD5000 and Periflux LDFs were made. The millivoltage output of both the LD5000 and the Periflux showed a high degree of correlation with arterial and venous occlusion and with each other.
Lumbar spinal cord responses to limb vein distention.	The purpose of this study was to determine if central neural responses were elicited by distention of limb veins, and to compare the pattern of these response to those produced in previous studies using electrical stimulation to excite limb venous afferent fibers. Spinal evoked potentials were measured in response to stretch of the wall of a segment of the femoral-saphenous vein by perfusion-distention or by mechanical stretch. These studies revealed that spinal cord evoked potentials were elicited by these procedures, and that the activated venous afferent fibers coursed through the saphenous nerve and entered the sixth lumber spinal cord segment. The minimum stretches which were required to elicit spinal evoked potentials were produced by perfusion pressures starting at 2-3 mm Hg, or by mechanical stretch of the wall of 5 micron/mm. A vein wall proprioceptor hypothesis is proposed and discussed in the light of these findings. In addition to the cord dorsum evoked potentials, distention or stretch of the vein wall elicited ventral root potentials (excitatory postsynaptic population potentials) which are known to be produced by excitatory inputs to motoneurons. A venous afferent mediated muscle-tonus venopressor mechanism hypothesis is proposed and discussed in the light of these and previous findings.
The PO2 in venous valve pockets: its possible bearing on thrombogenesis.	The PO2 in the lumen and valve pockets of veins in 2 patients and 8 dogs was measured during streamline blood flow and in conditions of intermittent pulsatile flow. The blood within the valve pockets became rapidly hypoxic when undisturbed during streamline flow (i.e. when "static"), but the PO2 in the pockets rose to that of the lumenal blood when the column of venous blood was made to pulsate and so empty the valve pockets at short intervals. The observations suggest that the endothelium covering the valve cusps is entirely dependent on pocket or lumenal blood for its oxygen supply. The endothelium facing the pocket can therefore become hypoxic during non-pulsatile blood flow when that facing the lumen is adequately to oxygenated. Early thrombus formation was seen to develop on a valve cusp after only 2 h non-pulsatile flow. The demonstration that localized hypoxaemia occurs readily and can produce endothelial damage, in circumstances and situations where thrombi are commonly found to originate, is additional circumstantial evidence that hypoxia may trigger thrombogenesis.
Intraoperative evaluation of the function of the saphenous vein as coronary graft, visualized by myocardial contrast echocardiography]	The assessment of area at risk of saphenous vein graft occlusion is an unsolved problem. We studied myocardial perfusion with contrast echocardiography in 13 patients undergoing coronary surgery. The left ventricle was imaged in the transgastric short axis view at midpapillary muscle level. The myocardial distribution area of 21 saphenous vein grafts was measured by injecting 0.2-0.5 cc of sonicated 5% albumin microspheres directly in the graft, early after weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass. Percent left ventricular area opacification was calculated for each graft injection: right coronary (N = 8) 21 +/- 7%, marginal branch (N = 10) 17 +/- 5%, left anterior descending and diagonal branch (N = 3) 41 +/- 4%. Myocardial systolic wall thickening was not effected by contrast injection (preinjection 45 +/- 12% vs postinjection 46 +/- 7%, p = NS). No local or systemic side effects were encountered.
Venous hemodynamics of the lower limbs]	Low pressure venous return results from several different pump systems. Blood flow and velocity depend on sympathetic tone and contraction of the veins modulating distensibility. In patients with chronic venous insufficiency, different components including hyperdistensibility, hyperpressure, valve failure, back-flow and stasis, lead to a vicious circle. These elements modify the venous wall and lead to hyperdistension producing modified distensibility and/or formation of varicose veins. Endothelial and smooth muscle cells participate in these changes. Smooth muscle cells play a major role: some hypertrophy and/or lose their contractility, synthesizing and sometimes rapidly destroying tissue. These changes in the circulation, sometimes increased by inflammation and thrombosis, affect microcirculatory haemodynamics with a variable delay. The venous system, even when pathological (as long as it is not totally invaded by fibrosis) responds to a large number of relaxing or constricting pharmacological agents, justifying their therapeutic value.
The deep venous system and reverse flow flaps.	The deep venous system of the upper and lower extremities was injected with a lead oxide mixture in 2 fresh human cadavers, dissected, radiographed and the sites of the venous valves located. These studies confirmed that the macrovenous connections between the venae comitantes of the distributing arteries were insufficient in number to bypass the venous valves in conventional, distally based reverse flow flaps (e.g. radial, ulnar, peroneal) but revealed an alternative microvenous interconnecting pathway which surrounds the artery as the venae arteriosa. This pathway was investigated in a series of distally based reverse flow saphenous flaps in dogs, comparing flaps where the microvenous connections were left intact (non-skeletonised) with those where these vessels were disconnected with the operating microscope (skeletonised). All non-skeletonised flaps survived subtotally or totally whereas total necrosis was observed in 70% of the skeletonised flaps. Finally a series of haemodynamic studies was performed to test valve competency including extrinsic pressure on the valves. It is concluded that the macrovenous and microvenous pathways, coupled with the variable anatomy of the venous valves, are major factors in determining the survival of reverse flow flaps.
