Accelerated development of quarantine treatments for insects on poor hosts.	The probit 9 standard for quarantine treatment efficacy (99.9968% mortality) was originally recommended for tropical fruits heavily infested with fruit flies and it centers on high mortality to achieve quarantine security. This standard may be too stringent for quarantine pests in commodities that are rarely infested or are poor hosts, The alternative treatment efficacy approach measures risk as the probability of a mating pair, gravid female, or parthenogenic individual surviving in a shipment. This will be a function of many factors including infestation rate and shipment volume. Applying the risk-based alternative treatment efficacy approach to pests on rarely infested or poor hosts will lower the number of required test insects needed for developing quarantine treatments; hence data for a quarantine treatment could be generated by testing 10,000 or fewer insects with no survivors, compared with 90,000-100,000 insects to demonstrate the traditional probit 9 efficacy. Several commodity/quarantine pest systems where this approach could be applied are discussed. This approach would save time and resources, and help farmers export their crop on a more-timely basis.
Hot water immersion to ensure quarantine security for Cryptophlebia spp. (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae) in lychee and longan exported from Hawaii.	We determined whether immersion in 49 degrees C water for 20 min, a quarantine treatment developed for disinfestation of fruit flies in lychee, Litchi chinensis Sonn., and longan, Dimocarpus longan (Lourd.) Steud., exported from Hawaii, would also disinfest fruit of two species of Cryptophlebia. The pattern of tolerance to heat in Cryptophlebia illepida (Butler) was generally eggs < neonates < early instars = late instars < pupae. No C. illepida survived immersion for 16 or 20 min. Late fourth and fifth instars were determined to be the most tolerant stage that occurs in harvested fruit. Late instars of Cryptophlebia ombrodelta (Lower) were more tolerant of hot-water immersion than those of C. illepida, but no C. ombrodelta late instars survived immersion for 16 or 20 min. The hot water immersion quarantine treatment for fruit flies should effectively disinfest lychees and longans of any Cryptophlebia.
A new sesquiterpene from the fruits of Allophylus laevigatus.	From the fruits of Allophylus laevigatus a new sesquiterpene, 11-acetoxy-4 alpha-methoxyeudesmane, was isolated alongwith the known compounds carissone and apigenin-8-C-beta-rhamnopyranoside. The flavone showed no antioxidant activity in the autoxidation of beta-carotene assay.
Glycosides from Grewia damine and Filicium decipiens.	Chemical investigation of n-butanol extract from the methanol extract of leaves of Grewia damine furnished lupeol, sitosterol beta-D-glucoside, flavone C-glycosides vitexin, isovitexin where as the same extracts from the leaves of Filicium decipiens furnished sitosterol beta-D-glucoside, 3-O-beta-D-glucopyranosyl kaempferol, 3-O-beta-D-glucopyranosylquercetin and 3-O-alpha-L-rhamnopyranosyl(1--> 2)-beta-D-glucopyranosylkaempferol.
