Subcellular creatine kinase alterations. Implications in heart failure.	We have tested the hypothesis that decreased functioning of creatine kinase (CK) at sites of energy production and utilization may contribute to alterations in energy fluxes and calcium homeostasis in congestive heart failure (CHF). Heart failure was induced by aortic banding in 3-week-old rats. Myofilaments, sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), mitochondrial functions, and CK compartmentation were studied in situ using selective membrane permeabilization of left ventricular fibers with detergents (saponin for mitochondria and SR and Triton X-100 for myofibrils). Seven months after surgery, animals were in CHF. A decrease in total CK activity could be accounted for by a 4-fold decrease in activity and content (Western blots) of mitochondrial CK and a 30% decrease in M isoform of CK (MM-CK) activity. In myofibrils, maximal force, crossbridge kinetics, and alpha-myosin heavy-chain expression decreased, whereas calcium sensitivity of tension development remained unaltered. Myofibrillar CK efficacy was unchanged. Calcium uptake capacities of SR were estimated from the surface of caffeine-induced tension transient (SCa) after loading with different substrates. In CHF, SCa decreased by 23%, and phosphocreatine was 2 times less efficient in enhancing calcium uptake. Oxidative capacities of the failing myocardium measured as oxygen consumption per gram of fiber dry weight decreased by 28%. Moreover, the control of respiration by creatine, ADP, and AMP was severely impaired. Our observations provide evidence that alterations in CK compartmentation may contribute to alterations of energy fluxes and calcium homeostasis in CHF.
Energy expenditure by Ba(2+) contracture in rat ventricular slices derives from cross-bridge cycling.	To clarify the energy-expenditure mechanism during Ba(2+) contracture of mechanically unloaded rat left ventricular (LV) slices, we measured myocardial O(2) consumption (VO(2)) of quiescent slices in Ca(2+)-free Tyrode solution and VO(2) during Ba(2+) contracture by substituting Ca(2+) with Ba(2+). We then investigated the effects of cyclopiazonic acid (CPA) and 2,3-butanedione monoxime (BDM) on the Ba(2+) contracture VO(2). The Ca(2+)-free VO(2) corresponds to that of basal metabolism (2.32 +/- 0.53 ml O(2). min(-1). 100 g LV(-1)). Ba(2+) increased the VO(2) in a dose-dependent manner (from 0.3 to 3.0 mmol/l) from 110 to 150% of basal metabolic VO(2). Blockade of the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) pump by CPA (10 micromol/l) did not at all decrease the Ba(2+)-activated VO(2). BDM (5 mmol/l), which specifically inhibits cross-bridge cycling, reduced the Ba(2+)activated VO(2) almost to basal metabolic VO(2). These energetic results revealed that the Ba(2+)-activated VO(2) was used for the cross-bridge cycling but not for the Ca(2+) handling by the SR Ca(2+) pump.
Involvement of Ca2+ buffering and Na+/Ca2+ exchange in the positive staircase of contraction in guinea-pig ventricular myocytes.	The mean sarcomere length (SL) of guinea-pig cardiac myocytes was recorded simultaneously with the whole-cell current under voltage-clamp conditions. After blocking both sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) and L-type Ca(2+) channels with ryanodine, cyclopiazonic acid and nicardipine, strong depolarizing pulses induced only the tonic component of SL shortening through the reverse mode of Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange (NCX). A positive staircase of SL shortening was observed on applying a train pulses to +60~+100 mV at 2 Hz and trans-membrane Ca(2+) flux was calculated from the time integral of the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange current ( I(NCX)). Changes in cytosolic [Ca(2+)] ([Ca(2+)](i)) were determined indirectly using the experimental [Ca(2+)](i)/SL relationship. Cellular Ca(2+) buffering was characterized by a lumped single-component system with a maximum binding capacity of 200 micro M and a dissociation constant of 613 nM. Despite the decrease in driving force, the amplitude of the outwards I(NCX) at +60 mV gradually increased along with the positive staircase. The model simulation suggested that this increase of outwards I(NCX) is caused by a dramatic increase in Ca(2+)-mediated activation of NCX.
FKBP12 binding to RyR1 modulates excitation-contraction coupling in mouse skeletal myotubes.	The skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca2+ release channel or ryanodine receptor (RyR1) binds four molecules of FKBP12, and the interaction of FKBP12 with RyR1 regulates both unitary and coupled gating of the channel. We have characterized the physiologic effects of previously identified mutations in RyR1 that disrupt FKBP12 binding (V2461G and V2461I) on excitation-contraction (EC) coupling and intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis following their expression in skeletal myotubes derived from RyR1-knockout (dyspedic) mice. Wild-type RyR1-, V246I-, and V2461G-expressing myotubes exhibited similar resting Ca2+ levels and maximal responses to caffeine (10 mm) and cyclopiazonic acid (30 microm). However, maximal voltage-gated Ca2+ release in V2461G-expressing myotubes was reduced by approximately 50% compared with that attributable to wild-type RyR1 (deltaF/Fmax = 1.6 +/- 0.2 and 3.1 +/- 0.4, respectively). Dyspedic myotubes expressing the V2461I mutant protein, that binds FKBP12.6 but not FKBP12, exhibited a comparable reduction in voltage-gated SR Ca2+ release (deltaF/Fmax = 1.0 +/- 0.1). However, voltage-gated Ca2+ release in V2461I-expressing myotubes was restored to a normal level (deltaF/Fmax = 2.9 +/- 0.6) following co-expression of FKBP12.6. None of the mutations that disrupted FKBP binding to RyR1 significantly affected RyR1-mediated enhancement of L-type Ca2+ channel activity (retrograde coupling). These data demonstrate that FKBP12 binding to RyR1 enhances the gain of skeletal muscle EC coupling.
Elementary events in excitation-contraction coupling of the mammalian myocardium.	Excitation-contraction coupling of the mammalian myocardium is widely assumed to comprise the following chain of events: (1) Influx of Ca++ into the cell during the plateau phase of the action potential as well as Ca++ release from the subsarcolemmal cisternae of sarcoplasmic reticulum. (2) Activation of the contractile proteins by interaction of Ca++ with the troponin-tropomyosin system. (3) Relaxation due to reuptake of Ca++ by the sarcotubular system as well as by pumping of Ca++ out of the cell through the surface membrane and the transverse tubular system. (4) Movement of Ca++ in the longitudinal tubules back to the subsarcolemmal cisternae. A short comment is included about the effects of hypertrophy on the excitatory processes as well as on cellular structural constituents directly involved in excitation-contraction coupling.
Genetic manipulation of calcium-handling proteins in cardiac myocytes. II. Mathematical modeling studies.	We developed a mathematical model specific to rat ventricular myocytes that includes electrophysiological representation, ionic homeostasis, force production, and sarcomere movement. We used this model to interpret, analyze, and compare two genetic manipulations that have been shown to increase myocyte relaxation rates, parvalbumin (Parv) de novo expression, and sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA2a) overexpression. The model was used to seek mechanistic insights into 1) the relative contribution of two mechanisms by which SERCA2a overexpression modifies Ca2+ sequestration, i.e., more pumps and an increase in the SERCA2a-to-phospholamban ratio, 2) the mechanisms behind postrest potentiation and how Parv and SERCA2a influence this response, and 3) why Parv myocytes retain their fast kinetics when endogenous SERCA2a is partially impaired by thapsigargin (a condition used to mimic diastolic dysfunction). The model was also utilized to predict whether Parv metal-binding characteristics might be modified to improve diastolic and systolic functions and whether Parv or SERCA2a might affect diastolic Ca2+ levels and myocyte energetics. One outcome of the model was to demonstrate a higher peak and total ATP consumption in SERCA2a myocytes and more even distribution of ATP throughout the cardiac cycle in Parv myocytes. This may have implications for failing hearts that are energetically compromised.
Disposition of calcium release units in agarose gel for an optimal propagation of Ca2+ signals.	Clusters of calcium-loaded sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) vesicles in agarose gel were previously shown to behave as an excitable medium that propagates calcium waves. In a 3D-hexagonal disposition, the distance between neighboring spheres (which may stand for SR vesicles) is constant and the relationship between distance and vesicular protein concentration is expected to be nonlinear. To obtain a distribution of SR vesicles at different protein concentrations as homogeneous as possible, liquid agarose gels were carefully stirred. Electron micrographs, however, did not confirm the expected relationship between inter-SR vesicle distance and vesicular protein concentration. Light micrographs, to the contrary, resulted in a protein concentration-dependent disposition of clusters of SR vesicles, which is described by a linear function. Stable calcium waves in agarose gel occurred at SR vesicle protein concentrations between 7 and 16 g/l. At lower protein concentrations, local calcium oscillations or abortive waves were observed. The velocities of calcium waves were optimum at approximately 12 g/l and amounted to nearly 60 microm/s. The corresponding distance of neighboring calcium release units was calculated to be approximately 4 microm. The results further show that calcium signaling in the described reaction-diffusion system is optimal in a relatively small range of diffusion lengths. A change by +/-2 microm resulted in a reduction of the propagation velocity by 40%. It would appear that 1), the distance between calcium release units (clusters of ryanodine receptors in cells) is a sensitive parameter concerning propagation of Ca2+ signals; and 2), a dysfunction of the reaction-diffusion system in living cells, however, might have a negative effect on the spreading of intracellular calcium signals, thus on the cell's function.
Mobilization of sarcoplasmic reticulum stores by hypoxia leads to consequent activation of capacitative Ca2+ entry in isolated canine pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells.	Capacitative Ca2+ entry (CCE) has been speculated to contribute to Ca2+ influx during hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV). The aim of the present study was to directly test if acute hypoxia causes intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) rises through CCE in canine pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). In PASMCs loaded with fura-2, hypoxia produced a transient rise in [Ca2+]i in Ca2+-free solution, indicating Ca2+ release from the intracellular Ca2+ stores. Subsequent addition of 2 mm Ca2+ in hypoxia elicited a sustained rise in [Ca2+]i, which was partially inhibited by 10 microm nisoldipine. The dihydropyridine-insensitive rise in [Ca2+]i was due to increased Ca2+ influx, because it was abolished in Ca2+-free solution and hypoxia was shown to significantly enhance the rate of Mn2+ quench of fura-2 fluorescence. The dihyropyridine-insensitive rise in [Ca2+]i and the increased rate of Mn2+ quench of fura-2 fluorescence were inhibited by 50 microm SKF 96365 and 500 microm Ni2+, but not by 100 microm La3+ or 100 microm Gd3+, exhibiting pharmacological properties characteristic of CCE. In addition, predepletion of the intracellular Ca2+ stores inhibited the rise in [Ca2+]i induced by hypoxia. These results provide the first direct evidence that acute hypoxia, by causing Ca2+ release from the intracellular stores, activates CCE in isolated canine PASMCs, which may contribute to HPV.
Direct detection of calmodulin tuning by ryanodine receptor channel targets using a Ca2+-sensitive acrylodan-labeled calmodulin.	Calmodulin (CaM) activates the skeletal muscle ryanodine receptor (RyR1) at nanomolar Ca(2+) concentrations but inhibits it at micromolar Ca(2+) concentrations, indicating that binding of Ca(2+) to CaM may provide a molecular switch for modulating RyR1 channel activity. To directly examine the Ca(2+) sensitivity of RyR1-complexed CaM, we used an environment-sensitive acrylodan adduct of CaM. The resulting (ACR)CaM probe displayed high-affinity binding to, and Ca(2+)-dependent regulation of, RyR1 similar to that of unlabeled wild-type (WT) CaM. Upon addition of Ca(2+), (ACR)CaM exhibited a substantial (>50%) decrease in fluorescence (K(Ca) = 2.7 +/- 0.8 microM). A peptide derived from the RyR1 CaM binding domain (RyR1(3614)(-)(43)) caused an even more pronounced Ca(2+)-dependent fluorescence decrease, and a >or=10-fold leftward shift in its K(Ca) (0.2 +/- 0.1 microM). In the presence of intact RyR1 channels in SR vesicles, (ACR)CaM fluorescence spectra were distinct from those in the presence of RyR1(3614)(-)(43), although a Ca(2+)-dependent decrease in fluorescence was still observed. The K(Ca) for (ACR)CaM fluorescence in the presence of SR (0.8 +/- 0.4 microM) was greater than in the presence of RyR1(3614)(-)(43) but was consistent with functional determinations showing the conversion of (ACR)CaM from channel activator (apoCaM) to inhibitor (Ca(2+)CaM) at Ca(2+) concentrations between 0.3 and 1 microM. These results indicate that binding to RyR1 targets evokes significant changes in the CaM structure and Ca(2+) sensitivity (i.e., CaM tuning). However, changes resulting from binding of CaM to the full-length, tetrameric channels are clearly distinct from changes caused by the RyR1-derived peptide. We suggest that the Ca(2+) sensitivity of CaM when in complex with full-length channels may be tuned to respond to physiologically relevant changes in Ca(2+).
Malignant hyperthermia.	In humans genetically predisposed to malignant hyperthermia, anesthesia can induce skeletal muscle rigidity, hypermetabolism, and high fever, which, if not immediately reversed, can lead to tissue damage or death. The corresponding condition in swine leads to stress-induced deaths and devalued meat products. Abnormalities in the Ca2+ release channel of skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum (the ryanodine receptor) have been implicated in the cause of both the porcine and human syndromes by physiological and biochemical studies and genetic linkage analysis. In swine, a single founder mutation in the ryanodine receptor gene (RYR1) can account for all cases of malignant hyperthermia in all breeds, but a series of different RYR1 mutations are likely to be uncovered in human families with MH. Moreover, lack of linkage between malignant hyperthermia and RYR1 in some families indicates a heterogeneous genetic basis for the human syndrome.
Unique phosphorylation site on the cardiac ryanodine receptor regulates calcium channel activity.	Ryanodine receptors have recently been shown to be the Ca2+ release channels of sarcoplasmic reticulum in both cardiac muscle and skeletal muscle. Several regulatory sites are postulated to exist on these receptors, but to date, none have been definitively identified. In the work described here, we localize one of these sites by showing that the cardiac isoform of the ryanodine receptor is a preferred substrate for multifunctional Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaM kinase). Phosphorylation by CaM kinase occurs at a single site encompassing serine 2809. Antibodies generated to this site react only with the cardiac isoform of the ryanodine receptor, and immunoprecipitate only cardiac [3H]ryanodine-binding sites. When cardiac junctional sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles or partially purified ryanodine receptors are fused with planar bilayers, phosphorylation at this site activates the Ca2+ channel. In tissues expressing the cardiac isoform of the ryanodine receptor, such as heart and brain, phosphorylation of the Ca2+ release channel by CaM kinase may provide a unique mechanism for regulating intracellular Ca2+ release.
Voltage-gated and calcium-gated calcium release during depolarization of skeletal muscle fibers.	The role of elevated intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]) in activating calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) was studied in skeletal muscle fibers microinjected with strong calcium buffers. After the injection of 3.8 +/- 0.5 mM (mean +/- S.E. of mean, n = 16) BAPTA (1,2-bis[o-aminophenoxy]ethane- N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid) or 2.2-2.8 mM fura-2 the normal increase in [Ca2+] during a depolarizing pulse was virtually eliminated. Even though calcium was released from the SR the kinetics of this release were markedly altered: the extensive buffering selectively eliminated the early peak component of SR calcium release with no effect on the maintained steady level. Microinjections of similar volumes but with low concentrations of fura-2 had no significant effect on the release waveform. The calcium released by voltage-dependent activation during depolarization may thus be involved in activating further calcium release, that is, in a calcium-induced calcium release mechanism.
Pharmacological evaluation of early afterdepolarisations induced by sea anemone toxin (ATXII) in dog heart.	ATXII is a polypeptide toxin isolated from the sea anemone, Anemonia sulcata, known to delay sodium inactivation markedly and to induce early afterdepolarisations. The aim was to investigate the mechanism of its action.
Regional differences in calcium-release channels from heart.	The heart is a heterogeneous tissue composed of several cell types tailored for specialized functions. We found that intracellular channels also exhibit regional specialization. In cardiac and skeletal muscle these channels are called the calcium-release channel and are identified by activation with either calcium or caffeine and inhibition by the hexavalent cation ruthenium red. The calcium-release channel of the sarcoplasmic reticulum from the interventricular septum has a smaller conductance (31 pS vs. 100 pS) and has longer open and closed times when compared with the channel from left-ventricular free wall. An additional calcium-permeable channel with an even smaller conductance (17 pS) was found in the septum, and this channel is similar to the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-gated channel from smooth muscle and different from the calcium-release channel (ryanodine receptor) from skeletal and cardiac muscle. The inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-activated channel may be derived from specialized conducting tissue that is relatively abundant in the septum, whereas the other calcium-release channels may be derived from regionally specialized myocardial cells in the septum and free wall.
The identity of the calcium-storing, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-sensitive organelle in non-muscle cells: calciosome, endoplasmic reticulum ... or both?	Although the initial phase of receptor-mediated Ca2+ signaling, involving Ca2+ release from intracellular stores by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, is relatively well characterized, the nature of the organelle releasing Ca2+ is a controversial subject. At issue is the question of whether Ca2+ is released from the endoplasmic reticulum, or from a more specialized organelle called the 'calciosome'. In this review, we attempt to analyse the arguments for and against these two views, and attempt to reconcile some of the apparently conflicting findings by proposing a hypothetical model of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-sensitive Ca2+ pool.
Scavenging free radicals by low-dose carvedilol prevents redox-dependent Ca2+ leak via stabilization of ryanodine receptor in heart failure.	We investigated whether defective intracellular Ca2+ handling is corrected by carvedilol in heart failure.
Docosahexaenoic acid and n-6 docosapentaenoic acid supplementation alter rat skeletal muscle fatty acid composition.	Docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3, DHA) and n-6 docosapentaenoic acid (22:5n-6, DPAn-6) are highly unsaturated fatty acids (HUFA, > or = 20 carbons, > or = 3 double bonds) that differ by a single carbon-carbon double bond at the Delta19 position. Membrane 22:6n-3 may support skeletal muscle function through optimal ion pump activity of sarcoplasmic reticulum and electron transport in the mitochondria. Typically n-3 fatty acid deficient feeding trials utilize linoleic acid (18:2n-6, LA) as a comparison group, possibly introducing a lower level of HUFA in addition to n-3 fatty acid deficiency. The use of 22:5n-6 as a dietary control is ideal for determining specific requirements for 22:6n-3 in various physiological processes. The incorporation of dietary 22:5n-6 into rat skeletal muscles has not been demonstrated previously. A one generation, artificial rearing model was utilized to supply 22:6n-3 and/or 22:5n-6 to rats from d2 after birth to adulthood. An n-3 fatty acid deficient, artificial milk with 18:2n-6 was supplemented with 22:6n-3 and/or 22:5n-6 resulting in four artificially reared (AR) dietary groups; AR-LA, AR-DHA, AR-DPAn-6, AR-DHA+DPAn-6. A dam reared group (DAM) was included as an additional control. Animals were sacrificed at 15 wks and soleus, white gastrocnemius and red gastrocnemius muscles were collected for fatty acid analyses.
A reduced differential model of the electrical activity of cardiac Purkinje fibres.	A reduced order differential model of cardiac Purkinje fibres action potential, with only eight state variables, is presented. Its structure, derived from basic physical principles can be used for the main other cardiac cell types, a useful property for some model-based signal or image processing applications. The electrical activity of cardiac Purkinje fibres is reconstructed using particular values of the parameters. This model of the membrane excitation mechanism and intracellular calcium dynamics describes the principal ionic current underlying autorhythmicity; calcium uptake and release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum; effects of the binding of calcium on myoplasmic proteins which affect the Nernst potential of calcium, and then the membrane potential. The model allows realistic modelling of cardiac Purkinje fibres action potential, total ionic current, CICR dependence on intracellular calcium concentrations. Simulations illustrate the role of the inward sodium current as the dominant mechanism underlying pacemaker depolarization during spontaneous activity.
Functional crosstalk between cell-surface and intracellular channels mediated by junctophilins essential for neuronal functions.	Junctophilins (JPs) contribute to the formation of junctional membrane complexes between the plasma membrane and the endoplasmic/sarcoplasmic reticulum, and provide a structural platform for channel communication during excitation-contraction coupling in muscle cells. In the brain, two neuronal JP subtypes are widely expressed in neurons. Recent studies have defined the essential role of neural JPs in the communication between cell-surface and intracellular channels, which modulates the excitability and synaptic plasticity of neurons in the cerebellum and hippocampus.
Interaction between Hsp70 and the SR Ca2+ pump: a potential mechanism for cytoprotection in heart and skeletal muscle.	The overexpression of heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) provides cytoprotection to cells, making them resistant to otherwise lethal levels of stress. In this review, the role Hsp70 plays in protecting both cardiac and skeletal muscle against the pathophysiological effects of oxidative stress are examined, with a focus on the molecular basis for the cytoprotective effects of Hsp70. The ability of Hsp70 to maintain cell survival undoubtedly involves the regulation of multiple steps within apoptotic pathways, but could also involve the regulation of key upstream mediators of apoptosis (i.e., oxidative stress, Ca2+ overload). Hsp70 can stabilize the structure and function of both the skeletal muscle and cardiac Ca2+ pump under heat stress conditions. Given that Ca2+ overload has long been implicated in cell death, Hsp70 might protect muscle cells by maintaining cellular Ca2+ homeostasis, thereby preventing the initiation of apoptosis. The functional interaction between Hsp70 and Ca2+ pumps might also promote improvements in muscle contractility after exposure to oxidative stress.
Abnormality in sarcoplasmic reticulum-dependent arterial contraction in responses to caffeine and noradrenaline in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	We studied caffeine- and noradrenaline-induced contraction in tail arteries from 4-week-old male SHR and age- and sex-matched WKY. After the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ had been depleted by the Ca(2+)-free EGTA (0.1 mmol/l) solution, the caffeine (10 mmol/l)-induced contractions in a low-Ca2+ (0.5 mmol/l) solution were smaller in SHR than in WKY. After the sarcoplasmic reticulum had been loaded with Ca2+ in physiological Ca2+ (2.5 mmol/l) solution, caffeine- and noradrenaline (10(-5) mol/l)-induced contractions in a Ca(2+)-free EGTA solution were smaller in SHR than in WKY. The Ca2+ concentration-tension relationship in skinned arterial fibres was similar in WKY and SHR. These data suggest that the ability of the sarcoplasmic reticulum to take up Ca2+ and store Ca2+ is decreased in SHR. The decreased take up and store of Ca2+ may increase cytosolic Ca2+, which elevates arterial resistance and develops hypertension in gene hypertension.
Characterization of K+ channel-dependent as well as -independent components of pinacidil-induced vasodilation.	The mechanisms of pinacidil-induced direct vasodilation were studied in vitro in RMA and RAO. In RMA, pinacidil produced dose-dependent relaxations of norepinephrine (5 microM)-induced contractions with an IC50 of 0.2 microM. This component of pinacidil relaxation appeared to be dependent on K+ conductance because pretreatment with tetraethylammonium (10 mM), Ba++ (0.5 mM), glyburide (1 microM) and 20 mM K+ all caused a rightward shift of the pinacidil dose-response curve (DRC) and a corresponding increase in the pinacidil IC50. However, additional relaxation effects of pinacidil were still evident in the presence of various K+ channel blockers. Pinacidil also showed a relaxation DRC under the condition of 80 mM K+ contraction in both RMA and RAO with IC50 values of 27 and 50 microM, respectively. Pinacidil could also produce maximal relaxation in RMA and RAO remained unaffected in 145 mM K+ (zero Na+) depolarizing solution suggesting a lack of dependence on Na(+)-Ca++ exchange mechanism for this action of pinacidil. Studies using 1 or 3 min pulse labeling with 45Ca showed an absence of an inhibitory effect of pinacidil (at 50 and 100 microM) on unidirectional 45Ca influx stimulated by high-K+. Net 45Ca uptake studies showed that pinacidil inhibited high-K+ stimulated 45Ca uptake at 100 but not at 50 microM. Ryanodine (10-100 microM) was used as a tool to investigate the role of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) in this action of pinacidil. Under the condition in which ryanodine (10-100 microM) treatment was found to cause the SR to be nonfunctional, pinacidil relaxation DRC remained unaltered, suggesting a lack of a stimulatory effect of pinacidil on SR Ca++ accumulation. These data thus show that the K+ channel-independent effect of pinacidil does not involve to any significant degree an effect of pinacidil on plasmalemmal voltage-sensitive Ca++ channels, SR Ca++ stores, Na(+)-Ca++ exchange or membrane hyperpolarization.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of pomegranate seed extract and beta-sitosterol on rat uterine contractions.	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of pomegranate (Punica granatum L., Punicaceae) seed extract on uterine contractility. Pomegranate seeds were methanolic extracted and their constituents analyzed using gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. Isometric force was measured in strips of longitudinal rat myometrium and the effects of pomegranate seed extract studied. We found beta-sitosterol to be the main constituent of the extract (16%) and its effects were also investigated. Pomegranate seed extract and beta-sitosterol increased spontaneous contractions in a concentration-dependent manner with a maximum effect at 250 mg/100 mL and 1 mg/100 mL, respectively. The amplitude and frequency of the phasic contraction were significantly increased along with basal tension. The effects of pomegranate seed extract were very similar to those of beta-sitosterol. Force produced in the presence of pomegranate seed extract was abolished by the inhibition of L-type calcium channels or myosin light chain kinase (MLCK). Contractions were not potentiated by pomegranate extract following the inhibition of K channels or inhibition of the sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase (SERCA). The actions of beta-sitosterol and the extract were not blocked by the estrogen receptor blocker, fulvestrant. We conclude that pomegranate seed extract is a potent stimulator of phasic activity in rat uterus. Our data suggest that the uterotonic effect is due to nonestrogenic effects of beta-sitosterol acting to inhibit K channels and SERCA and thereby increasing contraction via calcium entry on L-type calcium channels and MLCK. We suggest that pomegranate extract and beta-sitosterol may be a useful uterine stimulant.
Calcium dependence of inactivation of calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum in skeletal muscle fibers.	The steady-state calcium dependence of inactivation of calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum was studied in voltage-clamped, cut segments of frog skeletal muscle fibers containing two calcium indicators, fura-2 and anti-pyrylazo III (AP III). Fura-2 fluorescence was used to monitor resting calcium and relatively small calcium transients during small depolarizations. AP III absorbance signals were used to monitor larger calcium transients during larger depolarizations. The rate of release (Rrel) of calcium from the sarcoplasmic reticulum was calculated from the calcium transients. The equilibrium calcium dependence of inactivation of calcium release was determined using 200-ms prepulses of various amplitudes to elevate [Ca2+] to various steady levels. Each prepulse was followed by a constant test pulse. The suppression of peak Rrel during the test pulse provided a measure of the extent of inactivation of release at the end of the prepulse. The [Ca2+] dependence of inactivation indicated that binding of more than one calcium ion was required to inactivate each release channel. Half-maximal inactivation was produced at a [Ca2+] of approximately 0.3 microM. Variation of the prepulse duration and amplitude showed that the suppression of peak release was consistent with calcium-dependent inactivation of calcium release but not with calcium depletion. The same calcium dependence of inactivation was obtained using different amplitude test pulses to determine the degree of inactivation. Prepulses that produced near maximal inactivation of release during the following test pulse produced no suppression of intramembrane charge movement during the test pulse, indicating that inactivation occurred at a step beyond the voltage sensor for calcium release. Three alternative set of properties that were assumed for the rapidly equilibrating calcium-binding sites intrinsic to the fibers gave somewhat different Rrel records, but gave very similar calcium dependence of inactivation. Thus, equilibrium inactivation of calcium release appears to be produced by rather modest increases in [Ca2+] above the resting level and in a steeply calcium-dependent manner. However, the inactivation develops relatively slowly even during marked elevation of [Ca2+], indicating that a calcium-independent transition appears to occur after the initial calcium-binding step.
Ageing, but not yet senescent, rats exhibit reduced muscle quality and sarcoplasmic reticulum function.	Reduced muscle force greater than expected from loss of muscle mass has been reported in ageing muscles. Impaired sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) release has been implicated as a possible mechanism, and attributed to several factors, including loss of ryanodine receptor (RYR) expression and protein binding. The aim of this study was to evaluate muscle quality and SR Ca(2+) release in ageing rats that were not so old that major atrophy had occurred.
Inositol trisphosphate receptors in smooth muscle cells.	Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP(3)Rs) are a family of tetrameric intracellular calcium (Ca(2+)) release channels that are located on the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) membrane of virtually all mammalian cell types, including smooth muscle cells (SMC). Here, we have reviewed literature investigating IP(3)R expression, cellular localization, tissue distribution, activity regulation, communication with ion channels and organelles, generation of Ca(2+) signals, modulation of physiological functions, and alterations in pathologies in SMCs. Three IP(3)R isoforms have been identified, with relative expression and cellular localization of each contributing to signaling differences in diverse SMC types. Several endogenous ligands, kinases, proteins, and other modulators control SMC IP(3)R channel activity. SMC IP(3)Rs communicate with nearby ryanodine-sensitive Ca(2+) channels and mitochondria to influence SR Ca(2+) release and reactive oxygen species generation. IP(3)R-mediated Ca(2+) release can stimulate plasma membrane-localized channels, including transient receptor potential (TRP) channels and store-operated Ca(2+) channels. SMC IP(3)Rs also signal to other proteins via SR Ca(2+) release-independent mechanisms through physical coupling to TRP channels and local communication with large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated potassium channels. IP(3)R-mediated Ca(2+) release generates a wide variety of intracellular Ca(2+) signals, which vary with respect to frequency, amplitude, spatial, and temporal properties. IP(3)R signaling controls multiple SMC functions, including contraction, gene expression, migration, and proliferation. IP(3)R expression and cellular signaling are altered in several SMC diseases, notably asthma, atherosclerosis, diabetes, and hypertension. In summary, IP(3)R-mediated pathways control diverse SMC physiological functions, with pathological alterations in IP(3)R signaling contributing to disease.
Role of t-tubules in the control of trans-sarcolemmal ion flux and intracellular Ca2+ in a model of the rat cardiac ventricular myocyte.	The t-tubules of mammalian ventricular myocytes are invaginations of the surface membrane that form a complex network within the cell, with restricted diffusion to the bulk extracellular space. The trans-sarcolemmal flux of many ions, including Ca(2+), occurs predominantly across the t-tubule membrane and thus into and out of this restricted diffusion space. It seems possible, therefore, that ion concentration changes may occur in the t-tubule lumen, which would alter ion flux across the t-tubule membrane. We have used a computer model of the ventricular myocyte, incorporating a t-tubule compartment and experimentally determined values for diffusion between the t-tubule lumen and bulk extracellular space, and ion fluxes across the t-tubule membrane, to investigate this possibility. The results show that influx and efflux of different ion species across the t-tubule membrane are similar, but not equal. Changes of ion concentration can therefore occur close to the t-tubular membrane, thereby altering trans-sarcolemmal ion flux and thus cell function, although such changes are reduced by diffusion to the bulk extracellular space. Slowing diffusion results in larger changes in luminal ion concentrations. These results provide a deeper understanding of the role of the t-tubules in normal cell function, and are a basis for understanding the changes that occur in heart failure as a result of changes in t-tubule structure and ion fluxes.
Mitochondria couple cellular Ca(2+) signal transduction]	It has been shown that mitochondria not only control their own Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)]), but also exert an influence over Ca(2+) signaling of the entire cell, including the endoplasmic reticulum or the sarcoplasmic reticulum, the plasma membrane, and the nucleus. That is to say, mitochondria couple cellular metabolic state with Ca(2+) transport processes. This review focuses on the ways in which the mitochondrial Ca(2+) handling system provides integrity and modulation for the cell to cope with the complex actions throughout its life cycle, enumerates some indeterminate aspects about it, and finally, prospects directions of future research.
β-Adrenergic stimulation increases the intra-sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ threshold for Ca2+ wave generation.	β-Adrenergic signalling induces positive inotropic effects on the heart that associate with pro-arrhythmic spontaneous Ca(2+) waves. A threshold level of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](SR)) is necessary to trigger Ca(2+) waves, and whether the increased incidence of Ca(2+) waves during β-adrenergic stimulation is due to an alteration in this threshold remains controversial. Using the low-affinity Ca(2+) indicator fluo-5N entrapped within the SR of rabbit ventricular myocytes, we addressed this controversy by directly monitoring [Ca(2+)](SR) and Ca(2+) waves during β-adrenergic stimulation. Electrical pacing in elevated extracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](o) = 7 mM) was used to increase [Ca(2+)](SR) to the threshold where Ca(2+) waves were consistently observed. The β-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol (ISO; 1 μM) increased [Ca(2+)](SR) well above the control threshold and consistently triggered Ca(2+) waves. However, when [Ca(2+)](SR) was subsequently lowered in the presence of ISO (by lowering [Ca(2+)](o) to 1 mM and partially inhibiting sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase with cyclopiazonic acid or thapsigargin), Ca(2+) waves ceased to occur at a [Ca(2+)](SR) that was higher than the control threshold. Furthermore, for a set [Ca(2+)](SR) level the refractoriness of wave occurrence (Ca(2+) wave latency) was prolonged during β-adrenergic stimulation, and was highly dependent on the extent that [Ca](SR) exceeded the wave threshold. These data show that acute β-adrenergic stimulation increases the [Ca(2+)](SR) threshold for Ca(2+) waves, and therefore the primary cause of Ca(2+) waves is the robust increase in [Ca(2+)](SR) above this higher threshold level. Elevation of the [Ca(2+)](SR) wave threshold and prolongation of wave latency represent potentially protective mechanisms against pro-arrhythmogenic Ca(2+) release during β-adrenergic stimulation.
Impaired mitochondrial respiration and decreased fatigue resistance followed by severe muscle weakness in skeletal muscle of mitochondrial DNA mutator mice.	Mitochondrial dysfunction can drastically impair muscle function, with weakness and exercise intolerance as key symptoms. Here we examine the time course of development of muscle dysfunction in a mouse model of premature ageing induced by defective proofreading function of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) polymerase (mtDNA mutator mouse). Isolated fast-twitch muscles and single muscle fibres from young (3-5 months) and end-stage (11 months) mtDNA mutator mice were compared to age-matched control mice. Force and free myoplasmic [Ca(2+)] ([Ca(2+)](i)) were measured under resting conditions and during fatigue induced by repeated tetani. Muscles of young mtDNA mutator mice displayed no weakness in the rested state, but had lower force and [Ca(2+)](i) than control mice during induction of fatigue. Muscles of young mtDNA mutator mice showed decreased activities of citrate synthase and β-hydroxyacyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase, reduced expression of cytochrome c oxidase, and decreased expression of triggers of mitochondrial biogenesis (PGC-1α, PPARα, AMPK). Muscles from end-stage mtDNA mutator mice showed weakness under resting conditions with markedly decreased tetanic [Ca(2+)](i), force per cross-sectional area and protein expression of the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) pump (SERCA1). In conclusion, fast-twitch muscles of prematurely ageing mtDNA mutator mice display a sequence of deleterious mitochondrial-to-nucleus signalling with an initial decrease in oxidative capacity, which was not counteracted by activation of signalling to increase mitochondrial biogenesis. This was followed by severe muscle weakness in the end stage. These results have implication for normal ageing and suggest that decreased mitochondrial oxidative capacity due to a sedentary lifestyle may predispose towards muscle weakness developing later in life.
Facilitation of cytosolic calcium wave propagation by local calcium uptake into the sarcoplasmic reticulum in cardiac myocytes.	The widely accepted paradigm for cytosolic Ca(2+) wave propagation postulates a 'fire-diffuse-fire' mechanism where local Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR) from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) via ryanodine receptor (RyR) Ca(2+) release channels diffuses towards and activates neighbouring release sites, resulting in a propagating Ca(2+) wave. A recent challenge to this paradigm proposed the requirement for an intra-SR 'sensitization' Ca(2+) wave that precedes the cytosolic Ca(2+) wave and primes RyRs from the luminal side to CICR. Here, we tested this hypothesis experimentally with direct simultaneous measurements of cytosolic ([Ca(2+)](i); rhod-2) and intra-SR ([Ca(2+)](SR); fluo-5N) calcium signals during wave propagation in rabbit ventricular myocytes, using high resolution fluorescence confocal imaging. The increase in [Ca(2+)](i) at the wave front preceded depletion of the SR at each point along the calcium wave front, while during this latency period a transient increase of [Ca(2+)](SR) was observed. This transient elevation of [Ca(2+)](SR) could be identified at individual release junctions and depended on the activity of the sarco-endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA). Increased SERCA activity (β-adrenergic stimulation with 1 μM isoproterenol (isoprenaline)) decreased the latency period and increased the amplitude of the transient elevation of [Ca(2+)](SR), whereas inhibition of SERCA (3 μM cyclopiazonic acid) had the opposite effect. In conclusion, the data provide experimental evidence that local Ca(2+) uptake by SERCA into the SR facilitates the propagation of cytosolic Ca(2+) waves via luminal sensitization of the RyR, and supports a novel paradigm of a 'fire-diffuse-uptake-fire' mechanism for Ca(2+) wave propagation in cardiac myocytes.
Dihydropyridine receptors actively control gating of ryanodine receptors in resting mouse skeletal muscle fibres.	Contraction of skeletal muscle is triggered by the release of Ca(2+) from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) in response to depolarization of the muscle membrane. Depolarization is known to elicit a conformational change of the dihydropyridine receptor (DHPR) in the tubular membrane that controls in a time- and voltage-dependent manner the opening of the ryanodine receptor (RyR), the SR Ca(2+) release channel. At rest, it is assumed that RyRs are kept in a closed state imposed by the repressive action of DHPRs; however, a direct control of the RyR gating by the DHPR has up to now never been demonstrated in resting adult muscle. In this study, we monitored slow changes in SR Ca(2+) content using the Ca(2+) indicator fluo-5N loaded in the SR of voltage-clamped mouse muscle fibres. We first show that external Ca(2+) removal induced a reversible SR Ca(2+) efflux at -80 mV and prevented SR Ca(2+) refilling following depolarization-evoked SR Ca(2+) depletion. The dihydropyridine compound nifedipine induced similar effects. The rate of SR Ca(2+) efflux was also shown to be controlled in a time- and voltage-dependent manner within a membrane potential range more negative than -50 mV. Finally, intracellular addition of ryanodine produced an irreversible SR Ca(2+) efflux and kept the SR in a highly depleted state following depolarization-evoked SR Ca(2+) depletion. The fact that resting SR Ca(2+) efflux is modulated by conformational changes of DHPRs induced by external Ca(2+), nifedipine and voltage demonstrates that DHPRs exert an active control on gating of RyRs in resting skeletal muscle.
Doublet discharge stimulation increases sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ release and improves performance during fatiguing contractions in mouse muscle fibres.	Double discharges (doublets) of motor neurones at the onset of contractions increase both force and rate of force development during voluntary submaximal contractions. The purpose of this study was to examine the role of doublet discharges on force and myoplasmic free [Ca(2+)] ([Ca(2+)]i) during repeated fatiguing contractions, using a stimulation protocol mimicking the in vivo activation pattern during running. Individual intact fibres from the flexor digitorum brevis muscle of mice were stimulated at 33°C to undergo 150 constant-frequency (five pulses at 70 Hz) or doublet (an initial, extra pulse at 200 Hz) contractions at 300 ms intervals. In the unfatigued state, doublet stimulation resulted in a transient (∼10 ms) approximate doubling of [Ca(2+)]i, which was accompanied by a greater force-time integral (∼70%) and peak force (∼40%) compared to constant frequency contractions. Moreover, doublets markedly increased force-time integral and peak force during the first 25 contractions of the fatiguing stimulation. In later stages of fatigue, addition of doublets increased force production but the increase in force production corresponded to only a minor portion of the fatigue-induced reduction in force. In conclusion, double discharges at the onset of contractions effectively increase force production, especially in early stages of fatigue. This beneficial effect occurs without additional force loss in later stages of fatigue, indicating that the additional energy cost induced by doublet discharges to skeletal muscle is limited.
Single calcium channels in native sarcoplasmic reticulum membranes from skeletal muscle.	Electrical properties of native sarcoplasmic reticulum membranes from rabbit skeletal muscle were investigated using the patch-clamp technique. Bilayers were assembled at the tip of patch pipettes from monolayers formed at the air-water interface of sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane suspensions. The membranes were found to contain a spontaneously active cation channel of small conductance (5 pS in 200 mM CaCl2, symmetrical solutions) that was selective for Ca2+ and Ba2+. Between 50 and 200 mM CaCl2 (symmetrical) the increase in conductance as a function of [Ca2+] fit a hyperbola (K0.5, 83 mM, and gamma max, 7.9 pS) that extrapolated to a single-channel conductance of 0.5 pS at physiological Ca2+ levels. The channel opened in bursts followed by long silent periods of up to a minute. During a burst the channel fluctuated very rapidly with time constants in the millisecond range. The mean burst duration was voltage dependent, increasing from 1.8 s at a pipette voltage of +60 mV to 4.1 s at +80 mV. Over this range, burst frequency decreased with increasing voltage such that the fraction of time spent in the open state (fb) remained constant. Application of 1.6 mM caffeine resulted in activation of the channel that appeared as an increase in mean burst duration. In contrast, 50 microM dantrolene significantly decreased burst frequency, whereas 10 microM nitrendipine had no effect. The functional and pharmacological properties of this Ca2+ channel suggest that it may be important in mediating Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum during excitation-contraction coupling.
Reduced aerobic capacity causes leaky ryanodine receptors that trigger arrhythmia in a rat strain artificially selected and bred for low aerobic running capacity.	Rats selectively bred for inborn low capacity of running (LCR) display a series of poor health indices, whereas rats selected for high capacity of running (HCR) display a healthy profile. We hypothesized that selection of low aerobic capacity over generations leads to a phenotype with increased diastolic Ca(2+) leak that trigger arrhythmia.
Calcium-permeable channel in sarcoplasmic reticulum of rabbit skeletal muscle.	Membrane vesicles from sarcoplasmic reticulum of rabbit skeletal muscle were incorporated into a bilayer lipid membrane. With this system, single current fluctuation was observed in the presence of 50 mM Ba-gluconate. This channel activity was observed only in vesicles from terminal cisternae. The single channel conductance was 14.1 pS, and the channel state was almost wholly open. The open-close transition of the channel obeyed simple two-state kinetics and was voltage-independent. The ionic selectivity was also studied, and the channel showed no selectivity among Ba, Ca, Mn, and Mg. On the other hand, it was less permeable to Cs than to Ba. Based on these results, the relation of the Ca channel to excitation-contraction coupling is discussed.
A membrane fusion strategy for single-channel recordings of membranes usually non-accessible to patch-clamp pipette electrodes.	Membranes of cellular organelles and plasma membranes of some type of cells are not accessible to the high-resolution recordings that the conventional patch-clamp technique allows. However, when these purified membranes are dehydrated together with small lipid vesicles and hydrated again, cell-size vesicles (5-100 micron diameter) are obtained, on which single-channel recordings are possible. This approach, which has been proven successful with about ten different membrane preparations of varied origin, is further illustrated with two examples. First, a known conductivity of the sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane is compared with data obtained by using other techniques. Second, a new sodium current, present at purified postsynaptic membranes from the Torpedo electric organ, is described.
Effects of postnatal maturation on postrest potentiation in isolated rabbit atria.	Ultrastructural changes in cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) have been reported during postnatal development of the mammalian heart, but the functional significance of these observations has not been well characterized. Calcium release from SR in intact myocardial preparations was determined by the contractile characteristics of postrest contractions. Isometric tension and the maximum rate of tension development of the first contraction following intervals of electromechanical quiescence (rest) were related to steady-state tension and maximum rate of tension development during contraction at constant frequency (1.0 Hz) in isolated left atrial strips from newborn (1-7 days), immature (14-21 days), and adult (more than 6 months) rabbits. The first postrest contraction was increased as a function of the rest interval rate of tension development, defined as postrest potentiation, in all three age groups and reached a maximum value at rest intervals of more than 20 s. Tension developed by the first contraction following a 60-s rest interval was potentiated less in newborn and immature atria than in adult atria at an extracellular calcium concentration ([Ca]e) of 2.5 mM, an age-related difference most marked in the immature. Ryanodine (5.0 X 10(-9) M), a putative blocker of calcium release from cardiac SR, abolished postrest potentiation providing evidence that calcium release from SR is the predominant determinant of the postrest contraction. Postrest tension in atria from the immature rabbit heart was significantly increased both in absolute terms and relative to steady-state tension following stabilization under conditions which increase intracellular [Ca] [( Ca]i), i.e. increasing [Ca]e, increasing tonicity, or decreasing extracellular sodium concentration ([Na]e).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cell calcium and its regulation in smooth muscle.	Two novel methods used to study smooth muscles-electron probe X-ray microanalysis and Ca2+-sensitive indicators (which are used for resolving, respectively, the spatial distribution and temporal distribution of calcium)-are briefly reviewed and the major findings obtained are summarized. In smooth muscle the sarcoplasmic reticulum is the major intracellular source of Ca2+; mitochondria do not play a significant role in the physiological regulation of [Ca2+]i. Under pathological conditions mitochondria can reversibly accumulate large amounts of calcium. Resting [Ca2+]i generally ranges from 80 to 200 nM, and is lower in phasic than in tonic smooth muscles. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ and Ca2+ entry blockers can reduce [Ca2+]i, but the effects of beta-adrenergic agents are variable. Increases in [Ca2+]i are triggered by electrical stimulation, depolarization with high K+, and excitatory agonists. Stretch, after a delay of several seconds, can cause an increase in [Ca2+]i in some smooth muscles. There is also a delay of approximately 200-400 ms between the initiation of the rise of Ca2+ and contraction that follows spontaneous action potentials or electrical stimulation. Agonist-induced Ca2+ release, a major mechanism of pharmacomechanical coupling, has been demonstrated in smooth muscles depolarized with high K; evidence suggests that it is mediated by G proteins that couple receptors to phospholipase C. Ca2+ release can be triggered directly in permeabilized smooth muscle with inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate. Even though Ca2+ is the major physiological regulator of contraction, Ca2+ sensitivity of the regulatory-contractile apparatus differs in different (phasic and tonic) smooth muscles, and can be modulated in a given smooth muscle. The force [Ca2+]i ratio is higher during agonist-stimulated than during high K+-induced contractions, owing to agonist-induced increases in Ca2+ sensitivity mediated by G proteins. In some phasic smooth muscles (guinea pig ileum), the time course of the initial myosin light chain phosphorylation is extremely rapid and returns to basal levels while force remains elevated. In these smooth muscles there is also a marked decrease in the Ca2+ sensitivity of the regulatory-contractile apparatus during maintained depolarization in Ca2+-free or low Ca2+ solutions. It has been suggested that regulation of myosin light chain phosphatase plays a major role in the modulation of the Ca2+ sensitivity manifested as either potentiation or desensitization to [Ca2+]i.
Augmentation of cardiac calcium current by flash photolysis of intracellular caged-Ca2+ molecules.	The entry of calcium ions into cells through voltage-activated Ca2+ channels in the plasma membrane triggers many important cellular processes. The activity of these channels is regulated by several hormones and neurotransmitters, as well as intracellular messengers such as Ca2+ itself (for examples, see refs 1-9). In cardiac muscle, myoplasmic Ca2+ has been proposed to potentiate Ca2+ influx, although a direct effect of Ca2+ on these channels has not yet been demonstrated. Photosensitive 'caged-Ca2+' molecules such as nitr-5, however, provide powerful tools for investigating possible regulatory roles of Ca2+ on the functioning of Ca2+ channels. Because its affinity for Ca2+ is reduced by irradiation, nitr-5 can be loaded into cells and induced to release Ca2+ with a flash of light. By using this technique we found that the elevation of intracellular Ca2+ concentration directly augmented Ca2+-channel currents in isolated cardiac muscle cells from both frog and guinea pig. The time course of the current potentiation was similar to that seen with beta-adrenergic stimulation. Thus Ca2+ may work through a similar pathway, involving phosphorylation of a regulatory Ca2+-channel protein. This mechanism is probably important for the accumulation of Ca2+ and the amplification of the contractile response in cardiac muscle, and may have a role in other excitable cells.
A diminished role for the sarcoplasmic reticulum in newborn myocardial contraction: effects of ryanodine.	Ryanodine, known to reduce Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), was used in conjunction with the single sucrose gap voltage clamp technique to study excitation-contraction coupling in papillary muscles isolated from newborn and adult rabbits. Ryanodine altered the components of voltage clamp-induced tension in the adult producing a pattern that closely resembled the normal newborn. The phasic component of tension in mature myocardium was markedly and significantly reduced by ryanodine. In addition, ryanodine significantly altered the voltage dependence of this component of tension, suggesting a change in its mechanism of generation. The appearance of a prominent phasic component of tension, absent normally, but produced in the newborn by Ca2+ loading, was also abolished by ryanodine. These results support previous proposals that the phasic component of voltage clamp-induced tension in mammalian myocardium is produced by the release of Ca2+ from the SR. In the newborn, ryanodine caused a significantly smaller decrease in the ratio of phasic to tonic tension than in the adult, suggesting a much less significant role for the SR in excitation-contraction coupling in the younger age group. Although ryanodine had a significant effect on phasic tension, no alteration in the amplitude or voltage dependence of tonic tension, generated by transmembrane Ca2+ influx, could be demonstrated in either newborn or adult heart. This investigation suggests that in newborn myocardium, Ca2+ release from the SR plays a negligible role in excitation-contraction coupling, which depends, rather, on the influx of Ca2+ from the extracellular space.
Relation of muscle cell contraction and calcium distribution in sarcomere.	A model of activation of muscle contraction has been proposed. It is based on calcium diffusion and binding to specific regulatory sites in a sarcomere. Calcium ions activate interactions of contractile proteins and thus the generation of force. The model quantifies the relation between calcium released from intracellular stores and the elicited force.
Giant proteoliposomes prepared by freezing-thawing without use of detergent: reconstitution of biomembranes usually inaccessible to patch-clamp pipette microelectrode.	When sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane vesicles or synaptosomes were mixed with sonicated phospholipid vesicles and subjected to freezing-thawing, giant vesicles of up to 50 microns in diameter were formed. When the biomembrane vesicles were labeled with a covalently binding fluorescent dye, the resultant giant vesicles were fluorescent, thereby suggesting that the freezing-thawing process induces fusion of phospholipid and biomembrane vesicles. When membranes of the giant proteoliposomes thus prepared were studied using the patch-clamp technique, potassium channels of the biomembranes were detectable. The present method of the giant proteoliposome preparation is simple and rapid, and provides a system suitable for the study of ion channels of various biomembranes usually inaccessible to a patch-pipette microelectrode.
The role of the sarcoplasmic reticulum in the response of ferret and rat heart muscle to acidosis.	1. The photoprotein aequorin was micro-injected into papillary muscles from the right ventricle of ferrets and rats. Tension and aequorin light (a function of intracellular [Ca2+]) were monitored. 2. In stimulated ferret papillary muscles, increasing the [CO2] of the bicarbonate-buffered superfusate from 5% (pH 7.35) to 20% (pH 6.8) led to a rapid decrease of developed tension, with no significant change in the size of the intracellular Ca2+ transient which accompanies contraction. There was then a small brief recovery of tension which was accompanied by a large brief increase in the size of the Ca2+ transient. Tension then declined again before recovering more slowly, with no significant change in the size of the Ca2+ transient. 3. The time course of the Ca2+ transient was prolonged on exposure to the acid solution, but shortened on continued exposure to the acid solution. Relaxation of twitch tension became faster on exposure to the acid solution, but slowed again on continued exposure to the acid solution. 4. In the presence of 10 mM-caffeine the size of the Ca2+ transient increased during the initial decline of developed tension, the short-lived recovery of tension was abolished, and the Ca2+ transient became smaller during the slower recovery of developed tension. 2 microM-ryanodine had similar effects on developed tension. 5. Addition of 10 mM-lactic acid to the superfusate produced changes similar to those described in 2 and 3 above. 6. An intracellular acidosis, produced by the addition and subsequent withdrawal of 20 mM-NH4Cl from the superfusate also caused changes similar to those described above. In the presence of caffeine, withdrawal of NH4Cl produced changes similar to those described in 4 above. 7. In unstimulated ferret papillary muscles, increasing superfusate [CO2] produced an increase of aequorin light when the bathing [Ca2+] was increased or in the presence of ouabain (10 microM). This increase was not inhibited by verapamil (5 microM), carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone (1 microM) and oligomycin (2.5 microM), but was reduced by ryanodine (2 microM). 8. Rat papillary muscles showed responses which were quantitatively different from those observed in ferret papillary muscles: the initial recovery of tension developed more slowly, and sarcoplasmic reticulum (s.r.) inhibitors had a greater inhibitory effect on the recovery of tension. 9. It is concluded that the early decline of developed tension observed during acidosis is due to a decrease in Ca2+ release by the s.r. and a decrease in Ca2+ binding by the myofilaments.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Development of myocardial contractile system in the fetal rabbit.	Developmental changes in the myocardial contractile system were evaluated in the fetus at 18, 21, and 28 days of gestation (full term 31 days) and in 3- to 5-day-old newborn rabbits. Mechanical function was studied using the isolated arterially perfused heart. Perfusion with ryanodine (10(-5) M), an inhibitor of Ca release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum, decreased contractile force and increased the time to peak tension in the 28-day fetus and newborn but these changes were minimal in the 18- and 21-day fetus. Postextrasystolic potentiation, which is thought to be caused by Ca release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum, was observed in the 28-day fetus and the newborn, but was not significant in the 18- and 21-day fetus. An ultrastructural study showed poorly developed sarcoplasmic reticulum and myofibrils in the 18- and 21-day fetus. Although the maximum developed tension observed at high extracellular calcium increased with development, the relative value of developed tension at various extracellular calcium was similar in the three fetal groups and only in the newborn the extracellular calcium-developed tension curve shifted to the right. Myofibrillar yield increased with development but sensitivity of myofibrillar ATPase activity to Ca was similar in the fetus and newborn. These data suggest that 1) the sarcoplasmic reticulum does not function significantly in the 18- and 21-day fetus, 2) although sarcoplasmic reticulum starts to function at late gestation, it does not cause significant changes in intracellular calcium in the fetal period, 3) myocardial contractility remains similar in the fetus from the 18th to 28th day of gestation and major changes in contractility occur after birth.
Formation of rough endoplasmic reticulum and nuclear membrane in normal and tumour cells.	Paired cisternae have been found in normal and tumour cells both at interphase and mitosis being more common at the latter. It is believed that newly synthesized membranous protein and phospholipid molecules in the cisternae may polymerize spontaneously to form new membranes and as a consequence, multiplication of endoplasmic reticulum and nuclear membrane occur. Thus paired cisternae in interphase and mitotic cells may serve as a centre for the organisation of these two cellular organelles.
Relationships between early alterations in parvalbumins, sarcoplasmic reticulum and metabolic enzymes in chronically stimulated fast twitch muscle.	The present study compares the time courses of the early changes in parvalbumin content, in the properties of the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) and in activity and isozyme patterns of metabolic enzymes in chronically (12 h/day) stimulated fast twitch tibialis anterior (TA) muscle of the rabbit. Under the chosen conditions of stimulation, the first significant changes appeared after 6 days. Except for the delayed reduction in pyruvate kinase, the time course of the changes were the same. After 14 days of stimulation, parvalbumin decreased to 37% and Ca2+-ATPase activity of the SR to 29% of normal values. The transformation of the SR was also reflected by a 64% decrease of the 115000-Mr Ca2+-pumping peptide and a 5-fold increase in a 30000-Mr peptide. Following an identical time course, the mitochondrial activities of citrate synthase, 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase and ketoacid-CoA transferase increased 2.9, 3.0 and 3.7-fold respectively. A similar time course was observed in the M to H-type transition of the lactate dehydrogenase isozymes. The cause of these changes is discussed as it relates to altered transcriptional and/or translational activities. It is suggested that an increase in free intracellular Ca2+ caused by increased contractile activity, which is then perpetuated by the decrease in Ca2+-binding and sequestering capacities, might be the signal for such altered synthetic activities.
Activation of fast skeletal muscle: contributions of studies on skinned fibers.	The membrane potential of vertebrate twitch fibers closely controls Ca fluxes between intracellular compartments, which in turn control contraction. Recent work on intracellular Ca movement is reviewed in the general context of current efforts to synthesize physiological, biochemical, and structural observations on the contractile mechanism and its regulation, emphasizing the increasing role of functionally skinned fibers in this synthesis. Skinned fiber preparations, with removed or disrupted sarcolemma, bridge the gap between properties of isolated subsystems and their constrained operation in the intact fiber. Recent studies indicate that the surface action potential propagates along the transverse tubules, but not the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), which appears to be a distinct intracellular compartment. Voltage-dependent charge movements in the transverse tubules probably control Ca flux across the SR membranes. Current questions concern the mechanism of the signal that bridges the junctional gap between the two membrane systems, the mechanism and properties of the activated Ca efflux to the myofilament space, and the operation of the Ca pump of the SR during activation. New methods applied to intact fibers, cut fibers, skinned fibers, and subcellular systems are yielding the kind of information needed for a complete description of these central steps in excitation-contraction coupling and of Ca regulation of the myofilaments.
Diminished Na+/K+ and Ca2+ pump activities in the Ca2+ depleted heart: possible role in the development of Ca2+ overload during the Ca2+ paradox.	Experiments were carried out to test the hypothesis that membrane injury associated with Ca2+ depletion of the heart is involved in the development of Ca2+ overload during the Ca2+ paradox phenomenon. Biochemical properties of sarcolemma (SL) and sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) isolated from the rabbit heart after 10 min of Ca2+-free perfusion were examined. This treatment predisposes hearts to the Ca2+ paradox as assessed by perfusate creatine kinase (CK) activity and heart contractility during reperfusion with Ca2+. Homogenates prepared from Ca2+ depleted heart were examined for their capacity to accumulate Ca2+ in the presence of ATP, which is mainly a property of the SR Ca2+ pump. The initial rate of Ca2+ pumping was 55% less in the Ca2+ depleted heart. The activities of 5'-nucleotidase, Na+/K+-ATPase and Na+/Ca2+ antiporter, and the Ca2+ permeability were studied in isolated SL vesicles. Na+/K+-ATPase activity was 75% less in SL isolated from Ca2+ depleted hearts, no significant changes were observed with the other parameters studied. Calmodulin (CaM) content in SL, assayed by radioimmunoassay, was unchanged. However, a 98% increase was observed in homogenates prepared from Ca2+ depleted hearts. The possible involvement of CaM in the Ca2+ paradox phenomenon is discussed. The data provide evidence that the net Ca2+ gain of myocardial cells in Ca2+ repletion may in part be associated with a loss of the ability of the SL and SR to remove Ca2+ from the cytosol.
Effect of postsynaptic blockade of neuromuscular transmission on membrane properties of phasic muscle fibers in the frog]	Electric properties and acetylcholine sensitivity in frog sartorius muscle fibres were investigated after denervation and after prolonged paralysis with d-tubocurarine and alpha-bungarotoxin. No changes similar to those that appeared after nerve section developed in the muscle fibres after d-tubocurarine or alpha-bungarotoxin treatment. It is suggested that neurotrophic control of muscle fibres in frog is supported by materials transported to the muscle by axoplasmic flow rather than by the junctional acetylcholine or nerve impulsation.
Voltage-gated cation conductance channel from fragmented sarcoplasmic reticulum: steady-state electrical properties.	The interaction of fragmented sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) with an artificial planar phospholipid membrane under conditions known to induce fusion of phospholipid vesicles raises the conductance of the planar bilayer by several orders of magnitude. Measurements of steady-state electrical properties of bilayers thus modified by SR show that two types of conductance pathways are present. One is a voltage-independent pathway which may be somewhat anion-selective. The other is a voltage-gated ionophore showing selectivity to small monovalent cations. This latter ionophore is fully oriented within the artificial bilayer and is inhibited asymmetrically by divalent cations. It is also inhibited below pH6. The ionophore displays single-channel conductance fluctuations between two states. "open" and "closed", with an open-state conductance of 1.4 x 10-10 mho in 0.1 M K+. The physiological function of this ionophore is unknown.
Structure of sarcoplasmic reticulum.	A classification of the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) membrane into areas devoted to different functions is described. The junctional (j) SR is covered by feet, it faces towards the transverse tubules, and it is probably devoted to receiving a signal from them. The free (f) SR contains the calcium pump. Isolated SR forms two fractions: light and heavy SR. The heavy fraction is composed of the lateral sacs of the triad, containing calsequestrin, and its membrane comprises both f and j SR. The light fraction is entirely composed of fSR membrane. It is proposed that the feet join jSR membrane to particles contained within the transverse tubules and that they play a direct role in excitation-contraction coupling.
Analysis of halothane effects on myocardial force-interval relationships at anesthetic concentrations depressing twitches but not tetanic contractions.	Tetanic contractions in rat myocardium depend solely on cellular Ca2+ uptake, whereas twitches depend on Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Because halothane may cause loss of sequestered Ca2+, the anesthetic was tested for its differential effects on twitch and tetanic forces. The in vitro effects of halothane on the twitch force-interval relationship were then evaluated, using a mathematical model that relates twitch contractile force to the Ca2+ content of intracellular compartments.
Mechanotransduction by vascular smooth muscle.	Mechanotransduction by vascular smooth muscle (VSM) is defined as a cellular response (contraction, secretion, growth, division) to transmural pressure or stretch. This review includes an overview of the physical forces VSM cells experience in vivo, consideration of experimental techniques used to study VSM mechanotransduction, and a discussion of the scientific literature pertinent to the individual cellular components that have been implicated in the transduction of physical forces. These include: the extracellular matrix, integrins, ion channels, the sarcoplasmic reticulum, second messenger systems, contractile proteins, and the cytoskeleton.
Regulation of vascular tone: cross-talk between sarcoplasmic reticulum and plasmalemma.	Selected topics on the roles of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) in the control of vascular smooth muscle (VSM) tone are briefly reviewed with particular reference to the regulation of cytosolic concentration of free calcium ions, [Ca2+]i. Although morphological evidence and subcellular membrane studies indicate a relatively meager quantity of SR in VSM and of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in endothelial cells (ECs) compared with skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle, contractility studies suggest that vascular tone is, to a large extent, regulated by the intracellular Ca2+ stores in smooth muscle and endothelial cells. Cytosolic Ca2+ levels control myosin light chain phosphorylation and contraction in VSM and activation of NO synthase and phospholipase A2 in ECs to regulate nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin I2 formation. Understanding of the importance of SR or ER in modulating the [Ca2+]i in VSM and ECs has been further advanced as a result of the new development and refinement of biophysical techniques in the measurement of cellular Ca2+ concentrations and ion currents, such as fluorescent Ca2+ indicators and patch-clamp techniques. Experimental evidence has accumulated in support of the existence of cross-talk between SR-ER and the plasma membrane (PM). Novel pharmacological tool drugs selective for the SR-ER Ca2+ pump, such as thapsigargin and cyclopiazonic acid, as well as for SR-ER Ca2+ channels, such as ryanodine (for the Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release channel) and inositol polyphosphates and heparin (for the inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate activated Ca2+ channel), together with the use of blockers for selective PM Ca2+ channels have enabled better formulation and elucidation of the mechanisms of cross-talk between SR-ER and PM.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Influence of the sarcoplasmic reticulum on the inotropic responses of the rat myocardium resulting from changes in rate and rhythm.	1. The role of the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) in the inotropic responses produced by changes in stimulation rate and rhythm and resting tension was investigated in the rat myocardium. 2. Rat papillary muscles contracting isometrically (basic stimulation rate = 30/min) were superfused in vitro with normal Krebs solution and after addition of ryanodine (1 microM). Post-rest potentiation was obtained after pauses of 5, 10, 15, 30, 60 and 120 s, and the stimulation rate was changed from 6 to 90 bpm. Post-extrasystolic potentiation was induced by interpolating an extra stimulus after an interval of 413 +/- 15 ms. NiCl2 (2 mM) was used to confirm that contractions obtained after SR blockade with ryanodine were activated only by sarcolemmal calcium influx. 3. In the presence of ryanodine, the post-rest potentiation phenomenon disappears and the force-frequency relationship changes from the typical force decrease produced by rate increase to force increase. Under the effect of ryanodine, resting tension increased with the increase in stimulation rate. This behavior was enhanced by reducing extracellular KCl from 5.4 mM to 1 mM. This maneuver decreases Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase and increases intracellular Na+ activity, which reduces Ca2+ extrusion through the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange mechanism. 4. SR participation in the post-extrasystolic potentiation phenomenon is also suggested because ryanodine treatment reversed the extrasystolic force depression into potentiation. In the presence of ryanodine, blockade of Ca2+ influx with NiCl2 (2 mM) abolished isometric contractions indicating that after SR blockade contractions are mainly dependent on sarcolemmal Ca2+ influx. 5. The results suggest that the SR is involved in the genesis of post-rest potentiation and contributes to the typical force-frequency relationship of the rat myocardium and to the post-extrasystolic potentiation phenomenon. Moreover, SR activity seems to be important for the maintenance of low resting tension in the cardiac muscle, which may represent a safety factor against contractures during inotropic changes produced in rate and rhythm.
Cross talk between plasma membrane and sarcoplasmic reticulum in canine airway smooth muscle.	In smooth muscle, contractions under pharmacomechanical and electromechanical coupling mechanism control rely on mobilization of intracellular calcium and on calcium influx from the extracellular space, respectively. In airway smooth muscle, pharmacomechanical coupling seems to predominate. Even if extracellular calcium enters the cell during agonist stimulation, and contributes to the maintained plateau phase of a prolonged stimulation-induced contraction, it does not result from membrane depolarization and is not part of the electromechanical coupling mechanism. Pharmacomechanical and electromechanical coupling are most likely not independent processes: we present here an example of cross talk between plasma membrane and sarcoplasmic reticulum, which results in an almost complete switch in the E-C coupling process from pharmaco- to electromechanical mode in tracheal smooth muscle.
Evidence for a Ca(2+)-gated ryanodine-sensitive Ca2+ release channel in visceral smooth muscle.	Although a role for the ryanodine receptor (RyR) in Ca2+ signaling in smooth muscle has been inferred, direct information on the biochemical and functional properties of the receptor has been largely lacking. Studies were thus carried out to purify and characterize the RyR in stomach smooth muscle cells from the toad Bufo marinus. Intracellular Ca2+ measurements with the Ca(2+)-sensitive fluorescent indicator fura-2 under voltage clamp indicated the presence of a caffeine- and ryanodine-sensitive internal store for Ca2+ in these cells. The (CHAPS)-solubilized, [3H]ryanodine-labeled RyR of toad smooth muscle was partially purified from microsomal membranes by rate density centrifugation as a 30-S protein complex. SDS/PAGE indicated the comigration of a high molecular weight polypeptide with the peak attributed to 30-S RyR, which had a mobility similar to the cardiac RyR and on immunoblots cross-reacted with a monoclonal antibody to the canine cardiac RyR. Following planar lipid bilayer reconstitution of 30-S stomach muscle RyR fractions, single-channel currents (830 pS with 250 mM K+ as the permeant ion) were observed that were activated by Ca2+ and modified by ryanodine. In vesicle-45Ca2+ efflux measurements, the toad channel was activated to a greater extent at 100-1000 microM than 1-10 microM Ca2+. These results suggest that toad stomach muscle contains a ryanodine-sensitive Ca2+ release channel with properties similar but not identical to those of the mammalian skeletal and cardiac Ca(2+)-release channels.
Inotropic effects of ejection are myocardial properties.	Recent studies in isolated and in vivo canine hearts have suggested that the left ventricular end-systolic pressure (LVPes) of ejecting beats is the net result of a balance between positive and negative effects of ejection. At present, it is unknown whether these ejection effects are merely a ventricular chamber property or represent a fundamental myocardial property. Accordingly, we examined the effects of ejection in eight isolated rat cardiac trabeculae at the sarcomere level. We approximated in situ sarcomere shortening patterns using an iterative computer loading system. Six isovolumic contractions were compared with four ejecting contractions. The superfusing solution contained either 0.7 mM Ca2+ or 0.65 mM Sr2+ plus 0.15 mM Ca2+. With Ca2+, simulated LVPes ("LVP"es) of ejecting contractions was significantly lower than isovolumic "LVP"es (-5.3 +/- 5.6%), whereas with Sr2+, ejecting "LVP"es was significantly higher than isovolumic "LVP"es (+4.5 +/- 7.5%). Contraction duration and time to end systole were markedly prolonged in ejecting vs. isovolumic contractions with either Ca2+ or Sr2+. As a consequence, comparison of simulated LVP between ejecting and isovolumic beats throughout the contraction, i.e., at the same simulated LVV and time, revealed only a positive effect of ejection with either Ca2+ (+18.8 +/- 5.5%) or Sr2+ (+23.4 +/-9.3%). We conclude that both positive and negative effects of ejection are basic myocardial properties.
On establishing primary cultures of neonatal rat ventricular myocytes for analysis over long periods.	Primary cultures of neonatal rat ventricular myocytes include a population of rapidly dividing nonmyocardial cells that can alter the properties of myocytes and complicate experimental interpretations. Without any intervention, nonmyocyte proliferation restricts the utility of primary cultures in biochemical and electrophysiologic studies to 4-5 days. However, with the recent interest in regulation of cardiac gene expression and the effects of growth factors on cardiac function, long-term studies with stable heart cultures are warranted.
Differentiational profiles of skeletal muscle internal membrane systems directly related to excitation-contraction coupling]	The arrangements of internal membrane systems (transverse (T) tubules, sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) and T-SR junction (triad)) are matched to contractile profiles in adult muscle fibers. The developmental profiles of the these internal membrane systems directly related to the excitation-contraction (EC) coupling were investigated in the chicken anterior (ALD, slow) and posterior (PLD, fast) latissimus dorsi muscles in ovo (14 to 21 days incubation: E 14-E 21) and after hatching (1 to 30 days after hatching: D 1-D 30). These internal membrane systems were visualized using confocal and electron microscopes. ALD and PLD have similar contraction time in early developmental stage (E 14-E 16), however, PLD suddenly becomes faster at E 17-E 18. Following the differentiation of faster contraction properties (E 18-E 19), density of triads increased significantly in PLD. Early development of T-tubules, on the other hand, is quite similar in both ALD and PLD. Peripherally located, longitudinally oriented T tubules, and the first T networks crossing the fiber center appear earlier in ALD (E 14-E 16) than PLD, but have similar dispositions. The final fiber type specific disposition of T-tubules is established after hatching, and three major components of the E-C coupling pathway are in place as soon as myofibrils develop.
Sarcoplasmic reticulum-related changes in cytosolic calcium in pressure-overload-induced feline LV hypertrophy.	Alterations in Ca2+ homeostasis that involve the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) were studied in feline left ventricular (LV) myocytes isolated from hearts with LV hypertrophy induced by slow, progressive pressure overload. At death, severe hypertrophy was evidenced by increased heart weight-to-body weight ratio (8.4 +/- 0.6 vs. 4.2 +/- 0.2 g/kg in controls). Steady-state Ca2+ transients (measured as. indo 1 fluorescence at 410 nm/480 nm; I410/I480) in LV hypertrophy (LVH) myocytes had diminished peak amplitudes (I410/I480 2.28 +/- 0.07 vs. 2.53 +/- 0.07 in controls) and prolonged durations (0.75 +/- 0.03 vs. 0.59 +/- 0.02 s in controls). The magnitude of shortening was reduced and the contractile duration was prolonged in LVH myocytes. The idea that changes in SR function are responsible for these alterations in the Ca2+ transient was tested by studying two aspects of SR-related Ca2+ homeostasis. Restitution of releasable SR Ca2+ was studied by measuring indo 1 transients and contractions during premature beats. The time course of restitution of both the indo 1 transient and contraction of hypertrophy myocytes was significantly slower than in controls. These data suggest that restitution of releasable SR Ca2+ is slowed in hypertrophy myocytes. The reduction of the indo 1 transient and contraction in beats following long rest periods (rest decay) was measured to determine the rate of Ca2+ loss from the SR. Rest decay was significantly (P < 0.05) more pronounced in hypertrophy myocytes, suggesting that Ca2+ loss from the SR is accelerated in these myocytes. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Canine cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum is not altered with endurance exercise training.	To investigate the effect of exercise training on calcium movements by isolated cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), mongrel dogs either remained sedentary (S) or were exercise-trained (E) via running for a period of 8-10 wk. The trained state was confirmed by the increase in skeletal muscle citrate synthase activity and decreases in submaximal exercise heart rates in the E group but not in the S dogs. The properties of isolated cardiac SR were identical between the groups. The variables tested included ATP-dependent calcium transport and calcium-stimulated ATPase activity. Importantly, there was no difference in spontaneous calcium release which occurred after peak ATP-dependent calcium accumulation was reached. Calcium release from passively loaded vesicles induced by calcium and ionophore also did not differ in the SR isolated from the E dogs. The change in the affinity of the SR Ca ATPase for calcium after the addition of the polyanion, heparin, was similar in both groups, indicating that the regulation of calcium-stimulated ATPase activity by the SR protein, phospholamban, is not modified by exercise training. We conclude that exercise training of 8-10 wk duration does not alter the calcium handling properties of cardiac SR isolated from mongrel dogs.
Evidence that reverse Na-Ca exchange can trigger SR calcium release.	Several results suggest that the Na-Ca exchange can function as a trigger promoting SR Ca release and ensuing contractions. First, if the Ca current was the sole trigger for contraction we would expect the relationship between triggered contractions and voltage to be similar to the relationship between Ca current and contraction. When Na is present in the pipette this is not observed. Between -40 and +10 mV the relationships between contractions and voltage and current and voltage are similar. At potentials positive to 10 mV the Ca current declines as expected but contractions either decline much more slowly or continue to increase depending upon the concentration of intracellular Na. In addition, we have observed that contractions can be activated when Ca current is largely or completely blocked. Since these contractions are sensitive to the presence of ryanodine and thapsigargin they appear to be triggered by Na-Ca exchange. Also, contractions that are activated in the presence of nifedipine are sensitive to the Na-Ca exchange inhibitor XIP. Finally, rapid removal of extracellular Na apparently stimulates enough reverse exchange triggering of SR Ca release without affecting the SR content. It is clear that the shape of the shortening voltage relationship depends upon the concentration of dialyzing Na. This is likely to occur for two reasons. Either the shape of the shortening voltage relationship depends upon the extent to which Na-Ca exchange contributes a trigger for SR Ca release or alternatively the shape of the shortening voltage relationship depends upon SR Ca content. The latter is known to depend upon the Na concentration. In addition it is now established that the gain of SR Ca release is influenced by SR content. However, we studied triggered contractions in the absence of a Na gradient when the only available trigger is the Ca current. We measured triggered contractions over a range of voltages between -30 and +60 mV. Between each measurement we reestablished the Na gradient and activated a series of conditioning pulses to standardize the SR Ca content. Just before a test pulse we removed extracellular Na and activated either 3 or 6 pulses to produce two different SR Ca loads (in the absence of a Na gradient entering Ca cannot be extruded and therefore changes the SR Ca content). Regardless of the number of prepulses in the absence of a Na gradient the shortening voltage relationship was similar and bell shaped. From this we conclude that the shape of the relationship between shortening and voltage does not depend upon SR Ca content. Therefore, we conclude that the asymmetry in the shortening voltage relationship that depends upon intracellular Na is due to a contribution of reverse Na-Ca exchange. It is too early to say what the physiological significance (if any) of triggering by reverse exchange actually is. However, it does seem likely that it might provide a powerful inotropic mechanism. For example intracellular Na might be expected to change with heart rate and to be elevated at higher heart rates. Presumably this increased intracellular Na would tend to favor triggering by reverse exchange and would therefore enhance contractility at a time when it would be most required.
Effects of tissue fractionation on exercise-induced alterations in SR function in rat gastrocnemius muscle.	Because studies into exercise-induced alterations in sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca2+ sequestration have produced conflicting reports, we have hypothesized that the differences in SR Ca(2+)-adenosinetriphosphatase (ATPase) activity and Ca2+ uptake in SR fractions observed in different studies are due to different SR isolation techniques. To investigate this possibility, rat white and red gastrocnemius muscles from control and run animals were studied by using two conventional isolation techniques to obtain a crude microsomal fraction and an isolated SR vesicle (SRV) fraction. Indexes of CM and SRV function were compared with measurements from whole muscle homogenate. Treadmill running to exhaustion did not alter SR protein yields, percent SR extraction, or basal or Ca(2+)-ATPase purification in either fraction. Ca(2+)-activated ATPase activity was not altered by exercise in any of the fractions examined, but Ca2+ uptake was reduced in the homogenates (9.48 +/- 1.4 to 6.90 +/- 0.8 nmol . mg-1.min-1) and SRV fractions (84.0 +/- 11.5 to 50.7 +/- 14.0 nmol . mg-1.min-1) from the red gastrocnemius at free Ca2+ concentrations of 600-700 nM. These data indicate that reductions in SR Ca2+ uptake are dissociated from changes in Ca(2+)-ATPase in vitro and occur only in a specific population of vesicles. The mechanisms underlying these alterations are not known but may involve a reduction in the number of Ca(2+)-ATPase enzymes or a selective sedimentation of damaged vesicles in the SRV fraction.
The role of the calcium release channel of skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum in malignant hyperthermia.	In this short review, we have described studies that have identified Arg415 in the Ca2+ release channel as a residue that influences channel sensitivity to Ca2+ induced Ca2+ release, rate of Ca2+ release, and channel closing. We have also described studies that confirm Dr. Numa's predictions that residues 4246-4267, 4382-4417, and 4478-4512 contain Ca2+ binding sites. The site between residues 4483 and 4494 (the PE repeat sequence) may be a key binding site for Ca2+ activation of the channel. Other residues in the sequence 4478-4512 may also contribute to activation of the channel. Thus our studies have contributed to basic knowledge of regulation of Ca2+ release function. They have also provided practical benefits in defining a disease gene, in development of a diagnostic test for porcine MH that is of economic benefit, and in laying the foundation for human MH diagnostic tests that may prevent anesthesia-induced morbidity and mortality.
Direct measurement of SR release flux by tracking 'Ca2+ spikes' in rat cardiac myocytes.	1. Ca2+ release flux across the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) during cardiac excitation-contraction coupling was investigated using a novel fluorescence method. Under whole-cell voltage-clamp conditions, rat ventricular myocytes were dialysed with a high concentration of EGTA (4.0 mM, 150 nM free Ca2+), to minimize the residence time of released Ca2+ in the cytoplasm, and a low-affinity, fast Ca2+ indicator, Oregon Green 488 BAPTA-5N (OG-5N; 1.0 mM, Kd approximately 31 microM), to optimize the detection of localized high [Ca2+] in release site microdomains. Confocal microscopy was employed to resolve intracellular [Ca2+] at high spatial and temporal resolution. 2. Analytical and numerical analyses indicated that, under conditions of high EGTA concentration, the free [Ca2+] change is the sum of two terms: one major term proportional to the SR release flux/Ca2+ influx, and the other reflecting the running integral of the released Ca2+. 3. Indeed, the OG-5N transients in EGTA-containing cells consisted of a prominent spike followed by a small pedestal. The OG-5N spike closely resembled the first derivative (d[Ca2+]/dt) of the conventional Ca2+ transient (with no EGTA), and mimicked the model-derived SR Ca2+ release function reported previously. In SR Ca2+-depleted cells, the OG-5N transient also closely followed the waveform of L-type Ca2+ current (ICa). Using ICa as a known source of Ca2+ influx, SR flux can be calibrated in vivo by a linear extrapolation of the ICa-elicited OG-5N signal. 4. The OG-5N image signal was localized to discrete release sites at the Z-line level of sarcomeres, indicating that the local OG-5N spike arises from 'Ca2+ spikes' at transverse (T) tubule-SR junctions (due to the imbalance between calcium ions entering the cytosol and the buffer molecules). 5. Both peak SR release flux and total amount of released Ca2+ exhibited a bell-shaped voltage dependence. The temporal pattern of SR release also varied with membrane voltage: Ca2+ release was most synchronized and produced maximal peak release flux (4.2 mM s-1) at 0 mV; in contrast, maximal total release occurred at -20 mV (71 versus 61 microM at 0 mV), but the localized release signals were partially asynchronous. Since the maximal conventional [Ca2+] transient and contraction were elicited at 0 mV, it appears that not only the amount of Ca2+ released, but also the synchronization among release sites affects the whole-cell Ca2+ transient and the Ca2+-myofilament interaction.
