A new strategy for treatment of malignant tumor: intra-bone marrow-bone marrow transplantation plus CD4- donor lymphocyte infusion.	Donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) is clinically used for the treatment of malignant tumors. We have found recently that intra-bone marrow-bone marrow transplantation (IBM-BMT) can be used to treat various autoimmune diseases, even when radiation doses are reduced. In addition, recently we have found that IBM-BMT can prevent not only graft failure but also graft-versus-host disease (GvHD). Based on these findings, we attempted to prevent and treat the progression of a tumor (Meth-A cell line: BALB/c-derived fibrosarcoma) by DLI plus IBM-BMT. When the tumors had grown to approximately 10 x 10 mm, the tumor-bearing BALB/c (H-2(d)) mice were irradiated with 5 Gy, and whole spleen cells from C57BL/6J (B6) (H-2(b)) mice (as DLI) were then intravenously injected into the BALB/c mice. Simultaneously, bone marrow cells (BMCs) from B6 mice were injected directly into the bone marrow cavity of the BALB/c mice (IBM-BMT). The tumors decreased in size, but the mice died of GvHD. However, when CD4(+) T-cell-depleted spleen cells were used for DLI, the recipients showed only mild GvHD and survived longer, due to the slow growth of the tumor. In contrast, when CD8(+) T-cell-depleted spleen cells were used for DLI, the recipients showed more severe GvHD than those injected with whole spleen cells. These results suggest that IBM-BMT plus DLI (the depletion or reduction of a certain cell population like CD4(+) T cells) could be helpful to suppress both GvHD and tumor growth.
Antitumor effect of intrapleural administration of Lactobacillus casei in mice.	The antitumor effect of intrapleural (i.pl.) administration of Lactobacillus casei YIT 9018 (LC 9018) on Meth A sarcoma in BALB/c mice was examined. Inoculation of Meth A cells into the thoracic cavity of BALB/c mice caused growth of the cells and the mice died from the tumor with an increased amount of pleural fluid. LC 9018 was given i.pl. to BALB/c mice before or after i.pl. inoculation of Meth A cells and the survival of the mice was determined. The i.pl. administration of LC 9018 was effective in prolonging the survival of the mice after i.pl. inoculation of Meth A tumor, and pretreatment with LC 9018 i.pl. also prolonged survival. Moreover, i.pl. administration of LC 9018 not only increased the number of thoracic exudate cells (TEC) but also augmented both cytolytic activity of thoracic macrophages and natural killer cell activity of TEC. Furthermore, phagocytic activity of thoracic macrophages against sheep red blood cells was enhanced and Ia antigen-positive cells in TEC were increased by the i.pl. treatment with LC 9018. These results showed that TEC induced by i.pl. administration of LC 9018 had antitumor activity against Meth A tumor inoculated i.pl. into BALB/c mice.
Effects of combined radiotherapy and immunotherapy with the use of pyran copolymer on murine fibrosarcoma.	A weakly immunogenic, 3-methylcholanthrene-induced, subcutaneous fibrosarcoma syngeneic to inbred C3H/HeJ mice was used. Pyran copolymer was injected either directly into the tumor, ip, or iv as soon as tumors appeared or when tumors were 8 mm in diameter. One, three, or five doses of pyran copolymer at 10 or 20 mg/kg/dose were injected, with multiple doses being given every other day. Pyran copolymer injected intratumorally once, three times, or five times significantly retarded tumor growth and prolonged the survival times of the hosts. Of the other routes and doses, only pyran copolymer given three times iv significantly retarded tumor growth, but none of these significantly prolonged the survival times of the hosts. Pyran copolymer alone did not induce any complete regression of tumor. Local tumor irradiation with a single exposure to 2,000 rads of X-ray induced complete regressions in some mice, but a higher percentage of tumor cure was observed when tumor irradiation was followed by pyran copolymer treatment.
Therapeutic effect from the combined action of pyrogenal and irradiation on sarcoma 45 in rats]	The use of pyrogenal associated with radiotherapy in the experiment (rat sarcoma-45) contributes to a successful realization of radiotherapeutic effect, longer life-terms and non-recurrence period, the increased number of completely cured and survived animals. Pyrogenal would produce no adverse side-effects.
