Radiotherapy in the management of Kaposi's sarcoma.	Of all types of Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), only AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome)-related KS is of clinical importance, although its incidence has significantly declined in the last years. KS is considered a radiosensitive tumor, and good palliation of symptoms can be achieved with radiotherapy.
Bortezomib-induced enzyme-targeted radiation therapy in herpesvirus-associated tumors.	We investigated the possibility of using a pharmacologic agent to modulate viral gene expression to target radiotherapy to tumor tissue. In a mouse xenograft model, we had previously shown targeting of [(125)I]2'-fluoro-2'-deoxy-beta-D-5-iodouracil-arabinofuranoside ([(125)I]FIAU) to tumors engineered to express the Epstein-Barr virus thymidine kinase (EBV-TK). Here we extend those results to targeting of a therapeutic radiopharmaceutical [(131)I]FIAU to slow or stop tumor growth or to achieve tumor regression. These outcomes were achieved in xenografts with tumors that constitutively expressed the EBV-TK. With naturally infected EBV tumor cell lines (Burkitt's lymphoma and gastric carcinoma), activation of viral gene expression by pretreatment with bortezomib was required. Marked changes in tumor growth could also be achieved in naturally infected Kaposi's sarcoma herpesvirus tumors after pretreatment with bortezomib. Bortezomib-induced enzyme-targeted radiation therapy illustrates the possibility of pharmacologically modulating tumor gene expression to result in targeted radiotherapy.
Gastric hemorrhage and Kaposi's sarcoma treated with radiotherapy.	A 66-year-old man, with advanced alcoholic liver disease with Kaposi's sarcoma involving the stomach and the skin of the lower extremities, developed upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage. He was treated with radiation therapy to the stomach and the skin with rapid resolution of the gastric lesions, as demonstrated by serial endoscopy.
Vertebral Lesions from AIDS-Related Kaposi's Sarcoma.	Kaposi's sarcoma is commonly described in HIV/AIDS patients but usually manifests as overt skin lesions or visceral involvement. Bone involvement, particularly vertebral, is uncommon, especially when there is no adjacent cutaneous lesion but a small number of cases have been reported. Unlike many other diseases associated with HIV, Kaposi's sarcoma can occur despite a normal CD4 count.
Radiotherapy of Kaposi's sarcoma.	Between 1958 and 1976, 34 patients with Kaposi's sarcoma were seen. Two patients were kidney transplant recipients. Co-existing malignancies were seen in 22% of patients. From 1958 to 1965, cutaneous lesions were treated solely with local radiotherapy techniques, single doses of 800 rads being found adequate to produce a complete response. In 1965, because of the multicentric occurrence of the disease and frequent recurrences after local radiotherapy techniques, extended field radiotherapy was begun. Ten of twelve patients thus treated responded completely. It is concluded that extended field radiotherapy using a single dose of 800 rads offers complete relief of symptoms and better control of the disease when compared to local radiotherapy. There was very little morbidity, with the extended field technique.
Increased radiosensitivity of normal tissue fibroblasts in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and with Kaposi's sarcoma.	Fibroblasts cultured from skin biopsies of patients with AIDS and Kaposi's sarcoma were found to be more radiosensitive than fibroblasts from non-HIV-infected-sources. This supports clinical observations of overt sensitivity to radiotherapy in some AIDS patients with Kaposi's sarcoma.
Radiotherapy of epidemic Kaposi's sarcoma: the experience of the Henri-Mondor Hospital (643 patients)]	Retrospective analysis of results of radiotherapy in epidemic Kaposi sarcoma at the Henri-Mondor hospital.
