Spindle cell tumours of the breast: practical approach to diagnosis.	Spindle cell tumours of the breast are uncommon and often present diagnostic challenges. The most important is the sarcomatoid/metaplastic carcinoma, which has monophasic and biphasic variants. Each of these groups presents special diagnostic difficulties. In the monophasic variant the mesenchymal component predominates and the epithelial element forms a minor component often detected only after immunohistochemical study. The spindle cell areas may be bland and therefore under-diagnosed as nodular fasciitis or fibromatosis. Alternatively they may be highly malignant with a pattern that is misinterpreted as primary sarcoma of the breast. In the biphasic variant, the difficulty is in distinguishing between sarcomatoid carcinoma, myoepithelial carcinoma or malignant phyllodes tumour. Other spindle cell lesions of the breast include the various myofibroblastic tumours, the spindle cell variant of adenomyoepithelioma, the varied primary breast sarcomas, metastatic tumours with spindle cell morphology and, finally, the very rare follicular dendritic cell tumour. A simple practical approach to the diagnosis of spindle cell lesions is presented to help the general surgical pathologist to compile a differential diagnosis and to arrive at the correct conclusion
Optimal radiologic imaging of soft tissue sarcomas.	Radiologic evaluation of the patient with soft tissue sarcoma may include conventional radiography, scintigraphy, ultrasonography (US), computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. The radiologist also plays a critical role in the evaluation of the patient with soft tissue sarcoma by guiding and performing aspiration biopsies. This review discusses the use of radiological techniques to evaluate the primary lesion and to detect recurrences. In adults, soft tissue sarcoma most commonly occurs in the extremities, and this review emphasizes the role of MR imaging in the pre- and post-treatment evaluation of extremity soft tissue sarcomas. The role of imaging studies in the evaluation of soft tissue sarcomas in the abdomen, thorax, and the head and neck region is also discussed.
Prognostic factors in soft tissue sarcoma.	The ability to accurately define the prognosis for patients with soft tissue sarcoma is a continuing challenge. Classically, this has been accomplished through assessments of tumor size, histologic grade, location, and the presence of nodal or distant metastases. These criteria are the basis of the currently utilized American Joint Commission on Cancer (AJCC) staging system. However, several other markers have been identified which have prognostic value. These newer markers are useful additions to the AJCC system. Such markers may not only improve our ability to prognosticate at diagnosis, but may also prove useful in selecting high-risk soft tissue sarcoma patients who could benefit from adjuvant therapy. This review will focus upon prognostic factors for patients with soft tissue sarcomas (STS). First, the components of the current AJCC staging system will be discussed; second, a summary of clinical prognostic factors which are not part of the staging system; and third, a discussion of newer and potential prognostic factors for STS patients.
Effective follow-up strategies in soft tissue sarcoma.	The value of surveillance for detection of recurrences in patients with soft tissue sarcoma (STS) after definitive surgical resection of the primary tumor is based on the premise that early recognition and treatment of local or distant recurrence can prolong survival. Surveillance strategies should meet the criteria of easy implementation, accuracy, and cost-effectiveness. Although guidelines have been proposed for follow-up of patients with STS, there are few data in the medical literature on the effectiveness of these recommendations. We reviewed the effectiveness of a surveillance program for primary extremity STS in an effort to provide an evidence-based rationale for follow-up of STS. We concluded that clinical assessment of patient symptoms, chest X-ray imaging, and physical examination are effective strategies for follow-up of extremity STS. Chest X-ray imaging also appears to be cost-effective, at least for high-grade extremity STS. Imaging of the primary extremity site by computed tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on an annual basis and routine laboratory blood tests were ineffective strategies for recurrence detection. However, certain patient characteristics such as body habitus, previous radiation therapy, and location of the primary tumor site may require the use of CT scans and MRI for adequate clinical assessment. The role of specific surveillance strategies for recurrence detection for sarcomas of the trunk, head and neck, retroperitoneum, and viscera has yet to be defined.
Anatomical reconstruction of the patellar tendon: a new technique with hamstring tendons and iliotibial tract.	A new technique of patellar tendon reconstruction was performed in a patient who lost tendon and tibial tuberosity during wide excision surgery for a malignancy. In this procedure, the tendon was anatomically replaced by a graft composed of ipsilateral hamstring tendons and iliotibial tract, with the biomechanical conditions considered. Both ends of the graft were secured in the size-matched bone tunnels in the patella and tibia by screw post fixation, which is a technique established in ligament reconstruction surgery in the knee joint. At the twenty-month follow-up, the result was deemed successful.
Large solitary fibrous tumor of the kidney: report of two cases and review of the literature.	Solitary fibrous tumors are spindle cell neoplasms frequently arising in the serosal surface as well as a variety of other sites. We report two cases of large solitary fibrous tumor arising in the kidney, clinically thought to be renal cell carcinoma, in 41- and 72-year-old men. Although large in size (13.0 and 14.0 cm in greatest dimension, respectively), both lesions were well circumscribed and composed of a mixture of spindle cells and dense collagenous bands with no areas of necrosis or cystic changes noted macroscopically or microscopically. Immunohistochemical studies revealed reactivity for vimentin, CD34, collagen IV, and bcl-2 protein in both cases, with no staining for keratin, S-100 protein, or muscle markers, confirming the diagnosis of solitary fibrous tumor of the kidney. Solitary fibrous tumor of the kidney is rare but may present as a large mass that may be clinically confused with carcinoma or sarcoma.
Combined resection and adjuvant therapy improves prognosis of sarcomas of the pulmonary trunk.	Diagnosis of pulmonary artery sarcoma is difficult and frequently delayed owing to the insidious, non-specific nature of the symptoms. We present our experience with surgery for this rare disease.
Popliteal pseudoaneurysm simulating soft-tissue sarcoma: complication of osteochondroma resection.	Pseudoaneurysm complicating osteochondroma is extremely rare. We describe a pseudoaneurysm in the popliteal fossa of a 21-year-old man, occurring 5 years after apparently incomplete resection of an osteochondroma at that site. We found magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance angiography to be of great diagnostic value. Resection of the pseudoaneurysm and anastomosis of the popliteal artery were successful, with no recurrence detected for almost 7 years since the operation.
Delay in diagnosis of soft tissue sarcomas.	We reviewed 100 patients referred with soft tissue sarcoma between May 1999 to determine doctor- and patient-related delay.
De novo uterine sarcoma with good response to neo-adjuvant chemotherapy.	We report here the extremely rare case of a 28-year-old woman with advanced stage uterine sarcoma arising soon after a cesarean section. She underwent an abdominal cesarean section because of a breech presentation. At the time of the procedure, there were no abnormal findings such as leiomyoma of the uterus in the abdominal cavity. One year later, she was referred to our hospital because of a large abdominal tumor. Transabdominal power Doppler ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a large hypervascular tumor in the abdominal cavity. Her serum levels, for the two tumor markers carbohydrate antigen CA125 and LDH, were elevated, at 219 U/ml (< 35 U/ml) and 862 IU/l (115 U/ml-217 U/ml), respectively. On the basis of a diagnosis of malignant tumor of gynecological origin, exploratory laparotomy was performed, and through biopsy, the tumor was found to be advanced undifferentiated uterine sarcoma. She exhibited a good response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin, epirubicin, and dimethyltriazenoimidazole carboxamide (DTIC) every 28 days, which was successfully followed by a hysterectomy.
How to improve the initial management of adult patients with tumors of bone and soft tissues: the experience of a multidisciplinary committee from the Oncolor network before the distribution of regional guidelines]	Tumors of bone and soft tissues in adults are rare accounting in France for 2000 to 2500 new cases per year. These tumors are heterogenous and their diagnosis is made after first surgery. Therefore, an early pluridisciplinary approach, by physicians who have acquired an expertise in this field, is advised before any biopsy or surgical resection and at all the further step in the subfrequent management. This paper describes the experience of a pluridisciplinary committee, specialized in malignant tumors of bone and soft tissues in adults, with a highly specialized team which is part of a network in the treatment of cancer in Lorraine, the Oncolor network, before the distribution of regional guidelines. After a description of the organisation of this committee, we made a retrospective analysis of all the cases submitted to these experts advice for the first time, between January and December 2000. This study reveals an insufficient pluridisciplinary coordination at the initial management, which has been done by making regional referentials available, and therefore some errors which lead in some cases to inadapted treatment. It underlines therefore the necessity to implement more actively the present data of science, and to develop the management in multidisciplinary committees. Oncolor aims to harmonize this pluridisciplinary approach as well as to diffuse standard recommendations.
Tumour tissue monitoring during photodynamic and hyperthermic treatment using bioimpedance spectroscopy.	Electrical bioimpedance spectroscopy is a fast and relatively easily applicable method for tissue characterization. In the frequency range up to 10 MHz, current conduction through tissue is mainly determined by tissue structure, i.e. the extra- and intra-cellular compartments and the insulating cell membranes. Therefore, changes in the extra- and intra-cellular fluid volumes are reflected in the impedance spectra. Investigations of tumours (DS sarcoma, implanted on the hind foot dorsum of rats) during treatment with localized hyperthermia (HT), photodynamic therapy (PDT) and the combination of these two components were carried out using impedance spectroscopy in the frequency range of 37 Hz to 3.7 MHz. Data collected reveal totally different, but characteristic, behaviour patterns for the three treatments. HT caused a slow increase in conductance at high frequencies (G(HF)) and in the extracellular space index (ECSI), indicating an increase in extracellular fluid volume and in total fluid content. With PDT, G(HF) increased immediately upon commencement of irradiation and was accompanied by a distinct decrease in ECSI, indicating the development of a pronounced intracellular oedema.
Primary cardiac sarcoma involving the pulmonary artery and valve.	Primary pulmonary artery neoplasms are rare and lethal. Those involving the pulmonary valve are even rarer with only a few reported cases in the literature. The poor prognosis of these neoplasms, despite attempted multimodal therapy, is largely related to delay and difficulty in diagnosis. The case of a 53-year-old woman is described who within one month of suddenly developing shortness of breath was found to have a mass arising from the pulmonary valve and extending through the pulmonary vasculature, requiring extensive surgical resection. She died two weeks postoperatively. The morphological findings of this primary pulmonary artery sarcoma are presented. Diagnosis, treatment, prognosis and literature are reviewed, and consideration of this tumour in the differential diagnosis of other pulmonary diseases is emphasized.
Bladder carcinoma with osteoclast-type giant cells. A case with a rare presentation. Review of the literature]	We report a case of neoplasm of the urinary bladder with pseudosarcomatous stromal differentiation. Heterologous carcinosarcomas are extremely rare malignant neoplasms (seventy-eight cases have been previously described). This is a case of carcinoma containing numerous osteoclast type giant cells that stained for vinmentin and acid phosphatase and were negative for cytokeratin and lysozyme.
MR-imaging changes of musculoskeletal soft-tissue sarcomas associated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and hyperthermia.	To evaluate early changes in musculoskeletal soft-tissue sarcomas under neoadjuvant chemotherapy combined with regional hyperthermia (RHT).
Definitive intraoperative radiotherapy for musculoskeletal sarcomas and malignant lymphoma in combination with surgical excision.	. The purpose was to estimate retrospectively the outcome of patients with musculoskeletal sarcoma or malignant lymphoma treated with intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT).
Medical management of soft tissue sarcomas.	Local therapies for STS, including aggressive surgical resection and radiation therapy, have improved dramatically over the last 10 years. This has resulted in improvement of important clinical outcomes such as enhanced rates of local control and higher quality of life for patients. Systemic therapy for STS, although efficacious to a certain degree, remains investigational. A major task for oncologists will be to measure accurately the single-agent activity of drugs and to integrate promising agents into multiagent regimens. This approach may allow significant progress in the management of STS in canine and feline patients.
Feline injection site sarcomas.	Injection site sarcomas in cats have been the topic of more than 40 articles and over 20 scientific abstracts as well as multiple letters to veterinary journals, articles in the popular press, and Internet-based web sites. With the level of discussion that has surrounded this tumor entity, one might expect that great strides have been made in determining the etiology, epidemiology, and preferred treatment options for this disease. Nearly half of the publications on this subject are review articles, however, and that alone indicates both the high level of interest and the lack of information in this situation. This article summarizes the development of our current understanding of this tumor with regard to areas of research into the cause of injection site sarcomas, epidemiology, and the current standard of care for treatment of this iatrogenic disease.
The prognostic significance of inflammatory cells in malignant human soft tissue tumors. Malignancy grading]	These studies are based on an analysis of 160 spindle cell and/or pleomorphic malignant soft tissue tumors of adults and are aimed at providing an answer to the question of whether or not inflammatory cells in tumor tissue are of prognostic importance with regard to overall survival time. In a univariate analysis, granulocytes and lymphocytes did not show any statistical correlation with survival periods, whereas such correlation was revealed with significance to survival periods by plasma cells and mast cells. With multivariate analysis used and presence of necrotic areas included, only mast cell infiltration remained to be significantly correlated with survival time. Also presented in this paper is a proposed scheme of malignancy grading in which two properly established indicators are scored together with "mast cell infiltration", that is "mitosis count" and "necrosis amount". The three grades of malignancy resulting from this grading procedure are shown to be related with high significance to overall survival time.
Pleomorphic malignant fibrous histiocytoma: fact or fiction? A critical reappraisal based on 159 tumors diagnosed as pleomorphic sarcoma.	Pleomorphic malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) is regarded as the most common soft tissue sarcoma of adulthood, but no definable criteria exist for its diagnosis. Possibly its only distinctive feature is its apparent lack of specific differentiation. To determine the validity of pleomorphic MFH, 159 tumors diagnosed as pleomorphic sarcomas have been reassessed morphologically, immunohistochemically, and ultrastructurally, where possible. Of these 97 cases (63%) proved to be specific sarcomas other than MFH, 20 proved to be nonmesenchymal neoplasms, and 42 were unclassifiable (of which 21 were either small biopsies or subtotally necrotic). Only 13% of these cases were eligible for consideration as MFH, but these showed no reproducible histological differences from the other tumors studied, nor was this group morphologically consistent. These tumors showed no evidence of true monocyte/macrophage differentiation. It is postulated that pleomorphic MFH is a noncohesive heterogeneous group of poorly differentiated neoplasms, a term that has become a meaningless diagnosis of convenience. With sufficient effort, a specific line of differentiation can be identified in the majority of pleomorphic malignant soft tissue tumors; with advances in investigative technology, the proportion that remain unclassifiable is very likely to diminish further in the future.
Pediatric musculoskeletal tumors: use of dynamic, contrast-enhanced MR imaging to monitor response to chemotherapy.	The ability of dynamic, gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging to allow prediction of histologic responses to initial chemotherapy was evaluated in 20 patients with osteosarcoma (n = 12), Ewing sarcoma (n = 4), rhabdomyosarcoma (n = 3), or synovial sarcoma (n = 1). Tumor signal intensity was measured on fast low-angle shot (FLASH) gradient-echo images obtained at 15-second intervals before and 3 or more minutes after manual intravenous injection of gadopentetate dimeglumine. Signal intensity was plotted against time, and slopes were calculated for the percentage increase in signal intensity per minute. Slopes and changes in maximum tumor size during and after chemotherapy were correlated with histologic evaluations of tumor response. Eleven of the 20 tumors met histologic criteria for response. Histologic response was moderately correlated with slopes obtained during chemotherapy (rs [Spearman rank correlation] = .53, P = .02) but not with changes in tumor size (rs = .02, P = .94). Tumor slopes obtained after chemotherapy were highly correlated with histologic findings (rs = .65, P = .007); the correlation with changes in tumor size increased but remained nonsignificant (rs = .41, P = .11).
A case of primary undifferentiated sarcoma of the liver.	The authors report a case of primary undifferentiated sarcoma of the liver, observed in a 36-year-old man. Diagnosis was established at peritoneoscopy and guided biopsy, and confirmed by autopsy two months later.
Recurrent solitary fibrous tumor of the pleura with malignant transformation.	Recurrent solitary fibrous tumor of the pleura with malignant progression occurs rarely. We report a case of solitary fibrous tumor of the pleura in an 85-year-old white woman that recurred 4 times during a span of 10 years and subsequently underwent malignant transformation. The accurate diagnosis of solitary fibrous tumor is aided by ancillary techniques, such as immunohistochemical staining; however, with malignant transformation, such tools may be of limited value. Long-term clinical follow-up is recommended for all patients with solitary fibrous tumor because of the potential adverse biological behavior of this tumor, which may lead to repeated recurrences and/or malignant transformation.
Management of soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities.	Soft tissue sarcomas are a diverse and rare group of neoplasms often found in the extremities. Treatment is best carried out in regional cancer centers by a multidisciplinary group with a common interest in these disorders. Treatment is usually surgical, with radiation used in select cases to try to reduce the risk of local recurrence. The role of chemotherapy is controversial, but it may be useful in patients at highest risk of developing metastatic disease. The development of newer forms of targeted systemic therapy and techniques to reduce the morbidity from local treatment to the extremity are areas of intense research interest.
Soft tissue sarcomas.	Sarcomas are a heterogeneous group of rare tumors that arise predominantly from the embryonic mesoderm. They present most commonly as an asymptomatic mass originating in an extremity but can occur anywhere in the body, particularly the trunk, retroperitoneum, or the head and neck. Pretreatment radiologic imaging is critical for defining the local extent of a tumor, staging the disease, guiding biopsies, and aiding in diagnosis. Core-needle biopsy is the preferred biopsy technique for diagnosing soft tissue sarcomas. The American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging system for soft tissue sarcomas is based on histologic grade, the tumor size and depth, and the presence of distant or nodal metastases. Despite improvements in local control rates with wide local resections and radiation therapy, metastasis and death remain a significant problem in 50% of patients who present with high-risk soft tissue sarcomas. The most common site of metastasis is the lungs, and metastasis generally occurs within two to three years after the completion of therapy. Progress in the molecular characteristics of these tumors should in the near future translate into molecularly based therapies that can be incorporated into standard treatment strategies.
Clinical outcomes of surgical resections for primary liver sarcoma in adults: results from a single centre.	Primary hepatic sarcoma is a rare tumour with a poor prognosis.
CA125 expression in epithelioid sarcoma.	There has been no report on useful immunohistological markers for epithelioid sarcoma (ES) so far. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the positivity and specificity of CA125 as a marker for the correct diagnosis of ES.
Report of a case of penile epithelioid sarcoma]	To enhance the knowledge and the effect of the diagnosis and treatment of primary epithelioid sarcoma of the penis.
Undifferentiated (embryonal) sarcoma of the liver (USL): MRI findings including dynamic gadolinium enhancement.	We report the MR appearance of undifferentiated (embryonal) sarcoma of the liver (USL) in a 13-year-old female who presented with a 1-year history of intermittent abdominal pain, weight loss, and fatigue. The tumor was a large, solitary, well-defined focal mass lesion with multiple cystic spaces, septations, and substantial central necrosis.
Nodular fasciitis of the finger.	Nodular fasciitis is a benign reactive lesion, often mistaken for a soft tissue sarcoma in clinical practice. Involvement of the finger is very rare and, as a result, in this location the lesion has sometimes been treated by ray amputation because of misdiagnosis. We report on the clinical and histological features of nodular fasciitis in a 30-year-old man who was treated by excisional biopsy. There has been no evidence of local recurrence at the recent follow-up 8 years after surgery. The importance of careful histological examination to avoid radical surgery should be emphasized because marginal excision can provide good results in the treatment of nodular fasciitis.
Primary endothelial sarcoma of the thoracic aorta.	Primary malignant tumors of the aorta are extremely rare. The case of a 64-year-old woman who presented with peripheral embolism to both femoropopliteal arteries is reported. The search for a source revealed a polypoid lesion severely narrowing the lumen of the distal thoracic aorta. Differential diagnosis included thrombus and primary aortic tumor. Extirpation of the tumorous lesion was performed. Histologic examination revealed intimal aortic sarcoma of endothelial cell origin. Although the liver was the only site of suspected metastases at the time of operation, during the 18-month follow-up until the patient's death, generalized metastatic spread had developed. This case report thus demonstrates the generally poor prognosis of this rare variety of aortic sarcoma, in particular when symptoms have already occurred.
Differential diagnosis of soft tissue sarcomas]	Soft tissue sarcoma often goes undetected.
Soft tissue sarcoma]	Soft tissue sarcomas are characterized by their heterogeneity. With new diagnostic imaging techniques, low- and high-grade components of the tumor can be differentiated. Thus biopsies should be guided by imaging to assure representative specimens. Besides histopathology, the advent of chromosomal and gene expression analysis may allow more accurate classification in the near future. Gene expression profiling has already proven its value by finding new subclassifications in other tumor types. Furthermore, this technique is a promissing tool to predict the response of a tumor to neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy. Up to now, response evaluation in neoadjuvant therapy is based on tumor size and not on vital tumor cells. Newer techniques (i.e., Magnetic-resonance-Spectroscopy, Molecular Imaging) can show the change of metabolism in neoadjuvant therapy and allow objective, comparative measurement of biological activity. The diagnostic of soft tissue sarcomas implies primarily a multidisciplinary approach for a stage associated therapy.
Botryoid Wilms' tumor: a report of two cases.	We report two rare cases of botryoid Wilms' tumor (BWT) occupying the renal collecting system with no macroscopic parenchymal mass. In case 1, a 3-year-old boy presented with a mass in the right flank, low-grade fever, abdominal pain, and macrohematuria. Radiology revealed an enlarged right kidney with a heterogeneous mass occupying a large part of the dilated renal calyx, pelvis, and ureter. Radical right nephroureterectomy was performed. The histopathologic diagnosis was nephroblastoma, and the pedicle of the tumor was attached to the renal parenchyma near the pelvic wall. In case 2, a 2-year-old boy presented with macrohematuria, and the clinical course was almost the same as in case 1. No local recurrence or metastatic spread has been detected for 4 years postoperatively in case 1 and for 9 months postoperatively in case 2.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumour of the duodenum in a 7-year-old boy.	We report a 7-year-old boy presenting with an acute upper gastrointestinal (GI) haemorrhage subsequently diagnosed to have a very rare duodenal gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST). Endoscopy, pertechnetate and red cell scans were negative. Abdominal US detected a 17-mm mass lesion of the third part of the duodenum. This was confirmed on CT and shown to be hypervascular on selective angiography. At laparotomy, a 20-mm submucosal duodenal lesion was found associated with mucosal ulceration. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed it to be positive for CD117 (c-KIT protein) consistent with a GIST. We emphasize the importance of a thorough abdominal US examination in children with GI haemorrhage and the consideration of GIST in the diagnosis after the common causes have been excluded.
Accuracy of helical CT in the detection of pulmonary metastases: is intraoperative palpation still necessary?	Pulmonary metastasectomy is well accepted in patients with isolated metastases from an extrathoracic malignancy. The standard approach involves careful intraoperative palpation of the lungs because more metastases are frequently found than were seen by preoperative conventional computed tomography (CT). Helical CT detects more nodules than conventional CT, raising the question of whether palpation of the lungs is still necessary if helical CT is used.
Low-grade myofibroblastic sarcoma of the distal phalanx.	Low-grade myofibroblastic sarcoma is a recently defined tumor that is part of the spectrum of malignant mesenchymal tumors, showing features of myofibroblastic differentiation. These tumors occur most commonly in the head and neck regions, especially in the tongue, and less frequently in the limbs, trunk, and abdominal/pelvic cavity. We describe a 51-year-old woman with a low-grade myofibroblastic sarcoma. The distal phalanx of the finger was amputated with a clear surgical margin. The treatment of this tumor should include a simple local excision with free surgical margins and a long clinical follow-up period with imaging studies. At the 28-month follow-up evaluation the patient was free from this tumor.
Management of recurrent soft tissue sarcoma of the retroperitoneum]	Local recurrence is the determinant of tumor-related mortality in retroperitoneal sarcomas because death often occurs as a result of local progression mostly without synchronous metastasis. Complete resection of the lesion and surgical margins status are the only therapeutic factors significantly associated with local control. Further outcome improvements need multimodal therapy since prognosis of these recurrences is poor with lower rates of complete resection and higher grade of malignancy than primary. Complete resection of the recurrence often requires removal of adjacent organs to achieve negative margins. External beam radiotherapy (EBRT), eventually associated with a boost of intra-operative electron beam radiotherapy (IORT) could improve the outcome in these patients. Preoperative timing could limit its toxicity. Chemotherapy protocols may enhance local and systemic outcome and can reduce the volume of high grade tumors and therefore allow a higher rate of complete resection. Isolated pelvic perfusion with local high doses chemotherapy is under investigation. Surgical excision of lung metastases should remain the treatment of choice, if preoperative evaluation indicates that complete clearance of the metastases is possible. Intra-operative chemotherapy after cyto-reductive surgery for the treatment of sarcomatosis is disappointing and complete surgery remains the cornerstone of the treatment with best results for low grade sarcomatosis. Adequate management at the time of primary presentation is likely to afford the best chance for long-term survival.
Diagnostic imaging update: soft tissue sarcomas.	No single imaging approach is ideal for every tumor. While radiography can be effective for diagnosis of specific tumors, additional imaging is often required. Soft tissue sarcomas require a multimodality approach.
Retroperitoneal sarcomas.	The evaluation and treatment of retroperitoneal sarcomas are challenging because the tumors are relatively rare and frequently present with advanced disease in an anatomically complex location.
Undifferentiated sarcoma of the liver in the adult]	A case of undifferentiated sarcoma of the liver with heart, lung and liver metastases, is reported. We emphasised the role of ultrasound for the early diagnosis of cardiac metastases. As far as we know there is no other report on this tumour in portuguese literature.
Scapulectomy as an extremity preserving intervention in surgery of soft tissue sarcoma]	In the treatment of soft tissue sarcomas, radical surgery may mean total scapulectomy. If the tumour is localized next to the scapula wide margins can be better achieved by an operation of this kind than by resection of soft parts. In the planning of these operations radical surgery has priority. The functional results after total scapulectomy is acceptable. There is a distinct reduction of shoulder mobility, especially in abduction. As the peripheral joints are fully conserved, the extremity can be used very well in daily life. The indications for total scapulectomy and the technique are discussed with reference to two clinical cases.
Soft-tissue sarcomas: use of textural patterns in skeletal muscle as a diagnostic feature in postoperative MR imaging.	The authors assessed the value of tissue textural patterns as a diagnostic feature for differentiating nonspecific posttreatment tissue changes from musculoskeletal sarcoma recurrence on magnetic resonance (MR) images. The MR imaging studies of 40 patients who had previously undergone surgery and radiation therapy for soft-tissue sarcomas of the lower extremities were evaluated in a blind fashion. In 31 of the MR imaging studies, T2-weighted images demonstrated diffuse areas of high signal intensity in soft tissues at the operative region. Close examination of the corresponding regions on high-resolution transverse T1-weighted images demonstrated textural features typical of skeletal muscle in 23 patients and the absence of such features in eight. None of the 23 patients with the "texture sign" proved to have macroscopic tumor recurrence at clinical or surgical follow-up. Among the eight patients without recognizable textural features of muscle in the regions suspicious for tumor recurrence, two proved to have recurrent tumor at surgery. Recognition of a texture sign on high-resolution T1-weighted spin-echo images of regions suggestive of tumor recurrence helps improve the diagnostic specificity of follow-up MR examinations in patients who have undergone treatment for soft-tissue sarcomas.
Carcinosarcoma of the liver: a case report and review of the literature.	No more than 11 cases of carcinosarcoma of the liver have been reported in the past 40 years that fulfill the definition of hepatocellular carcinoma combined with differentiated sarcomatous elements. Most cases consist of hepatocellular carcinoma with 1 to 2 heterologous elements. We report a case of a 51-year-old woman with liver carcinosarcoma consisting of 3 carcinomatous components and 4 sarcomatous components. Hepatocellular carcinoma, fibrolamellar type, was accompanied by neuroendocrine carcinoma (neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin positive) and adenocarcinoma (cytokeratin 7 and 20 positive). The sarcomatous elements consisted of poorly differentiated spindle cell neoplasm (vimentin positive), leiomyosarcoma (smooth muscle actin positive), rhabdomyosarcoma (desmin positive), and osteosarcoma. To our knowledge, this is the first case of liver carcinosarcoma with this many differentiated heterologous features. There are differing views on the pathogenesis of this tumor. Findings in this case support the view that metaplasia of carcinomatous cells gives rise to the sarcomatous elements.
Musculoskeletal disorders: improving diagnostic accuracy with MRI.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is gaining wider acceptance for the diagnosis of musculoskeletal disorders in the elderly, including internal joint derangements, neoplasms, and osteonecrosis. For internal derangement of large joints such as the knee, MRI is a noninvasive alternative to arthrography and offers excellent visualization. It plays an important role in the diagnosis and staging of primary and secondary neoplasms, including both osseous and soft tissue sarcomas. MRI is also indicated for diagnosing osteonecrosis that cannot be detected using other imaging modalities.
Extraanatomic lateral reconstruction to the popliteal vessels.	To describe the lateral approach to the popliteal artery in reconstructions after soft tissue sarcoma resection in the thigh.
The histological nature of epulides in dogs.	The histological characteristics of a series of 154 oral tumours with the clinical appearance of epulides in 129 dogs were reviewed. Diagnoses were based on current criteria in human oral pathology and compared with the original diagnoses. The histological findings suggested that the majority of epulides in the dog can be classified as focal fibrous hyperplasia (43.5 per cent), peripheral ameloblastoma (17.5 per cent), peripheral odontogenic fibroma (WHO type) (16.9 per cent) and pyogenic granuloma (1.95 per cent). In addition, a number of other odontogenic tumours (1.95 per cent) and non-odontogenic tumours (18.2 per cent) such as fibrosarcoma and squamous cell carcinoma, which are not traditionally associated with the clinical appearance of an epulis, were diagnosed. Of 74 lesions that were previously diagnosed as fibromatous and ossifying epulides, 50 (68 per cent) were reclassified as focal fibrous hyperplasia and 21 (28 per cent) as peripheral odontogenic fibroma (WHO type). The majority of lesions (76 per cent), which were originally classified as acanthomatous epulis, were found to be peripheral ameloblastoma. In addition, three squamous cell carcinomas, two rare odontogenic tumours and two cases of focal fibrous hyperplasia were diagnosed in this classification. It was concluded that, as in man, the term epulis is a clinically descriptive term and that the renal nature of these lesions should be determined histologically.
Low-grade myofibroblastic sarcoma of the piriform fossa: a case report with a literature review of a tumour with a predilection for the head and neck.	A low-grade myofibroblastic sarcoma was removed from the pyriform fossa of a 44-year-old man. It recurred 4 years later and was removed radically through an incision in the neck. There has been no further recurrence after 11 years.
Microarray analysis of sarcomas.	Microarrays began to be used to study gene expression profiles in the mid-1990s, but it was only after 2000 that serious attempts have been made to apply this technology to investigate sarcomas. Microarray technologies provide a comprehensive survey of active molecular pathways and potential molecular targets for diagnosis and treatment, but are challenging to use because of issues of specimen collection, cost, and complexities in experimental design and data analysis. As a discovery-based technique, microarray analyses are most valuable when framed around specific gaps in our knowledge of tumor etiology and progression, challenges in differential diagnosis, and pressing therapeutic needs. To date, microarray analyses of sarcomas support their division into molecularly defined and molecularly heterogeneous categories, and have provided useful diagnostic markers for entities such as gastrointestinal stromal tumors, synovial sarcoma, and dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans. Signatures predicting outcome and response to therapy have been published for Ewing sarcoma and osteosarcoma, and receptor tyrosine kinase expression patterns have suggested novel therapeutic approaches which may be applied to several types of sarcoma. Nevertheless, results need to be interpreted in the context of histopathology and validated by complementary technologies and/or other research groups.
Pulmonary artery sarcoma mimicking massive pulmonary embolus: a case report.	Intimal sarcomas of the pulmonary artery are rare tumors that are often difficult to distinguish from pulmonary thromboembolic disease, complicating accurate diagnosis and timely therapy. We report the case of a gentleman with a primary pulmonary artery sarcoma who presented with a massive pulmonary embolism and complete right ventricular outflow tract obstruction. The patient's condition was successfully managed with urgent pulmonary artery thromboendarterectomy, pulmonary valve replacement, and tricuspid valve annuloplasty.
Molecular diagnosis of sarcomas: chromosomal translocations in sarcomas.	Sarcomas are rare, numerous in type, and often difficult to definitively classify. Work in the last 2 decades has revealed that a significant subset of sarcomas are associated with specific chromosomal translocations producing chimeric (fusion) genes that play a role in the sarcomas' biology and are helpful in their differential diagnosis.
Immunohistochemistry of endometrial stromal sarcoma.	Twenty-three cases (12 low grade, 11 high grade) of endometrial stromal sarcoma were studied with monoclonal antibodies to vimentin, keratin, desmin, muscle actin, epithelial membrane antigen, and collagen type IV, using the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase method. Tumors were highly variable in the expression of these antigens. Some tumors contained both epithelial and smooth muscle-related antigens; others were immunoreactive only for the intermediate filament vimentin. Immunoreactivity patterns for metastases or recurrences were similar to the respective primary tumor and no correlation was observed between tumor grade and antigen expression. Normal myometrium, when present, was keratin-positive and variably epithelial membrane antigen-positive. We conclude that endometrial stromal sarcoma, as well as normal myometrium, may express both epithelial and/or muscle-related antigens. These findings most likely reflect a common mesodermal-mullerian derivation and illustrate the intimate relationship of the endometrial stromal cell to the endometrial glands and myometrium. Knowledge of these immunoreactivity patterns is essential when evaluating poorly differentiated uterine tumors or spindle cell tumors presenting in extrauterine locations.
One-stage penectomy and phalloplasty for epithelioid sarcoma of the penis in an adolescent.	Epithelioid sarcoma (ES) of the penis is a rare tumour. We present a case of ES of the penis in a 16-yr-old boy, for which penectomy and immediate reconstruction with a free forearm phalloplasty, including a urethral reconstruction, was performed. Because total penectomy is a dramatic life event for any patient, the option of immediate penile reconstruction is presented. It can help to prevent major psychological problems after this kind of surgery.
Spindle cell lesions of the adult prostate.	Prostatic spindle cell lesions are diagnostically challenging and encompass a broad array of benign and malignant processes. A subset of these lesions arises only within the prostate and generally represents entities that originate from the prostate epithelium or stroma, such as sclerosing adenosis, sarcomatoid carcinoma, stromal tumors of uncertain malignant potential (STUMP), and stromal sarcoma. Another subset of spindle cell tumors that involve the prostate are also found at other sites and include solitary fibrous tumor, leiomyosarcoma, and neural lesions among others. Finally, tumors may secondarily involve the prostate yet present as primary prostatic processes, as is evident with several cases of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST). The utility of ancillary studies, including immunohistochemistry, is often limited and the main criteria for diagnosis are the morphologic findings by routine H&E stain. This review addresses the various entities that may present as spindle cell tumors within the adult prostate and discusses the functional aspects of the differential diagnosis of these lesions.
Molecular characterization of sarcomatous change in a granulosa cell tumor.	Sarcomatous transformation of a granulosa cell tumor (GCT) is a rare event. We describe the development of a rapidly progressive sarcomatous change in a woman who had initially presented with a classical GCT. A first recurrence occurred 23 months after the initial diagnosis when she was treated with external beam radiotherapy to her pelvis. A second recurrence 76 months following her initial surgery was consistent with a GCT. At 92 months, she presented with a further recurrence, outside of the radiotherapy field. This last recurrence had a different histologic appearance with features of sarcomatous change. Molecular analysis, using both reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and complementary DNA microarrays, has been used to analyze tissue obtained before and after the observed change in the tumor. The data show that GCT-specific genes, such as inhibin alpha, estrogen receptor, and follicle-stimulating hormone receptor, have been downregulated in the sarcomatous change. Significant upregulation of genes associated with an inflammatory response was also noted in the sarcoma, and this was consistent with the presence of a marked inflammatory infiltrate seen on histopathology. This study represents the novel application of microarray technology and demonstrates the unexpected finding of expression of the fibroblast activation protein gene in normal ovary. Although tumors such as this may be targets for the novel fibroblast activating protein-directed chemotherapeutic monoclonal antibody sibrotuzumab, the finding of expression in the normal ovary suggests the need for caution.
Uterine sarcomas.	A wide variety of sarcomas occur in the uterus but two subtypes - leiomyosarcoma and endometrial stromal sarcoma - account for a majority of those more routinely encountered. Using the 2003 World Health Organization classification, this review focuses on six uterine sarcomas: endometrial stromal sarcoma, undifferentiated endometrial sarcoma, leiomyosarcoma, rhabomyosarcoma, angiosarcoma and liposarcoma. The epidemiological, clinical, pathological and molecular features are presented along with therapeutic approaches. Familiarity with molecular aspects of these tumors and application of novel technologies in their assessment should be encouraged as they may provide alternate therapies resulting in improved survival for the patient. Clinical information necessary for accurate diagnosis of these lesions is emphasised. A multidisciplinary approach to management of patients with uterine sarcomas is essential for optimal management.
Molecular markers of miscellaneous primary and metastatic tumors of the uterine cervix.	Miscellaneous primary tumors of the uterine cervix are rare. Markers which can be utilized to detect these tumors are very few and in most cases, have not been clinically validated. The information provided in this article will help in developing strategies to discover novel markers and initiate translational research in this ignored area. Based on the reported studies, cytokeratin markers are common in many tumors and few of these rare cancers demonstrate human papilloma-virus (HPV) and Epstein Bar virus (EBV) infection. Due to the very low prevalence of these tumors, epidemiological studies have not been conducted and the etiology of these tumors is largely unknown.
Distinguishing undifferentiated embryonal sarcoma of the liver from biliary tract rhabdomyosarcoma: a Children's Oncology Group study.	Morphologically, the distinction between undifferentiated embryonal sarcoma of the liver (UESL) and biliary tract rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) can be uncertain because of some shared pathologic similarities. Patients with UESL have been consistently but erroneously enrolled in Children's Oncology Group (COG) treatment protocols because UESL was equated with RMS, despite the differing primary treatment modalities of these entities. Review of COG pathology files yielded 20 cases of UESL that were compared to 25 cases of biliary tract RMS. Clinicopathologic features including immunohistochemical staining were examined. In the UESL cases, the male:female ratio was 1:1 and the median age was 10.5 years. Histologically, hyaline globules and diffuse anaplasia were consistently present. The cases of RMS had a male:female ratio of 1.8:1 with a median age of 3.4 years and routinely lacked diffuse anaplasia and hyaline globules. Polyclonal desmin and muscle-specific actin were variably immunoreactive in UESL and RMS; however, myogenin and myogenic regulatory protein D1 (MyoD1) were uniformly negative in UESL and routinely positive in the majority of biliary tract RMS. Myogenin, in particular, was highly significant (P = 0.0003) in distinguishing RMS from UESL. With a median follow-up of 8 months, 11 of 18 patients with UESL were still alive. The estimated 5-year survival for biliary tract RMS was 66%. Establishing the correct diagnosis of these distinct clinical and pathologic entities is important, as surgery alone may be curative in UESL, whereas initial chemotherapy is often recommended for the treatment of biliary tract RMS.
A case of the treatment in an adult with hepatic undifferentiated (embryonal) sarcoma]	Undifferentiated embryonal sarcoma is a rare primary malignant neoplasm of the liver. Undifferentiated sarcoma of the liver in adult is an uncommon hepatic tumor of mesenchymal origin, generally considered an aggressive neoplasm with an unfavorable prognosis. We present a case of undifferentiated sarcoma in a 61-year-old woman. CT scan demonstrated a large heterogenous, exophytic growing hepatic mass in the right lobe with pulmonary metastatic nodules. US guided liver biopsy was done and pathological findings of the liver specimen revealed that isolated or grouped round pleomorphic cells and spindle to stellate cells were present. Immunohistochemical stain showed that tumor cells expressed positivity for vimentin and partially positivity or negativity for cytokeratin. She was diagnosed as having undifferentiated sarcoma of the liver. She received seven courses of VAIA chemotherapy by CWS protocols. Chemotherapy was efficacious and the size of the tumor decreased considerably after the treatment. No tumor recurrence for 12 months is noted.
Utility of ALK-1 protein expression and ALK rearrangements in distinguishing inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor from malignant spindle cell lesions of the urinary bladder.	Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor of the urinary bladder is an unusual spindle cell neoplasm that displays cytologic atypia, infiltrative growth and mitotic activity mimicking malignant tumors, such as leiomyosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma and sarcomatoid carcinoma. The objective of this study was to determine if anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK-1) protein expression detected by immunohistochemistry and ALK rearrangements detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) were useful in distinguishing inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor from malignant spindle cell tumors of the urinary bladder. In inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor, ALK-1 expression was identified in 13 of 21 cases (62%) and ALK rearrangements in 14 of 21 cases (67%). All cases of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor demonstrating ALK-1 expression, carried ALK rearrangements. One case negative for ALK-1 expression exhibited ALK rearrangement. ALK rearrangements were more common in women (P=0.0032). Leiomyosarcoma, sarcomatoid carcinoma, embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma and reactive myofibroblastic proliferations were negative for ALK-1 protein and ALK rearrangements. Immunohistochemistry using markers of muscle, epithelial, neural, and follicular dendritic cell differentiation showed overlap between inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor with and without ALK gene rearrangements, and between inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor and spindle cell malignancies. However, coexpression of cytokeratin and muscle-specific antigens was unique to inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor, observed in approximately half the tumors. This study indicates that detection of ALK protein and ALK gene rearrangements are useful in distinguishing inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor from spindle cell malignancies in the urinary bladder. Additionally, our findings suggest that ALK rearrangement is the primary mechanism for ALK activation and that inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor likely represents a heterogeneous group of spindle cell proliferations with the majority associated with ALK translocations, and the remaining associated with other etiologies.
Acral myxoinflammatory fibroblastic sarcomas: MRI findings in four cases.	Acral myxoinflammatory fibroblastic sarcoma is a rare, recently described, low-grade sarcoma that involves mainly the distal extremities. The purpose of this study is to report the MRI findings in four cases of acral myxoinflammatory fibroblastic sarcoma.
Huge uterine leiomyoma with adenomyotic cysts mimicking uterine sarcoma on MR imaging.	Magnetic resonance imaging of a 39-year-old woman who presented with an abdominal mass revealed a tumor with hemorrhagic lesions extending from the intrauterine space to the subserosa. Hysterectomy was performed for probable uterine sarcoma. The histological examination diagnosed uterine leiomyoma with severe myxoid degeneration and without malignant components. Hemorrhagic lesions were diagnosed as adenomyotic cysts, resulting in findings similar to those of a uterine sarcoma.
Accuracy, limitations and pitfalls in the diagnosis of soft tissue tumors by fine needle aspiration cytology.	The diagnosis of soft tissue tumors is one of the biggest diagnostic challenges in pathology. In this study, we attempted to measure the accuracy of FNAC in diagnosing soft tissue tumors. All the cases of FNAC with cyto-histological correlation between January 2003 and August 2005 (a total of 72 cases) were collected and sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values measured. The sensitivity and positive predictive value for differentiating between benign and malignant lesions was 0.8421, while the specificity and negative predictive value was 0.9412 for the same. The main problem was false negatives due to a borderline or low grade spindle cell sarcoma being classified as benign. However, only 18 cases could be typed precisely. Therefore, FNAC has a role in the initial diagnosis of soft tissue sarcomas, but it should be used as a complement rather than a competitor to histopathology.
Pulmonary artery sarcoma--a challenging diagnosis: a case report.	Pulmonary artery sarcoma is a known but rare tumor with poor prognosis. It is a challenging diagnostic dilemma, as the main complaint of these patients is progressive dyspnea. Dyspnea is a common symptom in cardiorespiratory disease and therefore a high index of suspicion is necessary to make the diagnosis early and proceed with surgery and radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy. We report a case of primary pulmonary artery sarcoma that presented initially with weight loss, shortness of breath, palpitations, and dysphagia.
MR imaging manifestations of skin tumors.	In this study, we evaluated MR imaging findings of skin tumors and categorized them into four types: (1) discrete mass lesions of the dermis and epidermis, (2) mass lesions of the subcutis with or without abutment to the skin, (3) diffuse or localized skin thickening without a true mass, and (4) a skin mass with bone destruction. The categorization of MR images may be useful in the differential diagnosis of skin tumors.
Lymphoma presenting as a musculoskeletal soft tissue mass: MRI findings in 24 cases.	The purpose was to describe the MRI morphological features and signal intensity (SI) characteristics of 24 histologically proven cases of musculoskeletal soft tissue lymphoma presenting clinically as a suspected primary soft tissue sarcoma. This was a retrospective review of clinical notes and MRI studies of 24 patients with a histologically confirmed diagnosis of lymphoma. All patients presented to a specialist orthopaedic oncology unit with a suspected primary soft tissue sarcoma. Features assessed included lesion size and morphology, location, extension across anatomical compartments and signal intensity characteristics. The lesions were predominantly poorly defined with peritumoral oedema in ten cases. All tumours were of intermediate T1W SI, while 85% of lesions also showed intermediate T2W SI. Almost all cases that were located just deep to the fascia showed subcutaneous extension, while 50% had involvement of more than one muscle compartment. In 29% of cases, there was extension of tumour along the neurovascular bundle. Histo-pathologically, 23 lesions were non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphoma. The MRI features of primary musculoskeletal soft tissue lymphoma include a mass with intermediate SI on T1W and T2W images, involvement of more than one anatomical compartment, subcutaneous extension and extension along the neurovascular bundle.
Soft-tissue sarcomas of the limbs at high risk of malignity. Current role of surgery and conservative treatment]	The authors discuss the role of surgical treatment in patients with highly malignant soft tissue sarcomas in the limbs. A careful analysis is made of different therapies on the basis of the results obtained by the authors and those reported in the literature. The anatomic classification of lesions is based on functional anatomic compartments, defined as intra- or extracompartmental. If a lesion was within an intrafascial compartment, all the muscles with intact fascial sheaths have up till now been removed "en bloc" to obtain radical margins. Many authors now think that all manifest disease be removed with a generous soft tissue margin on all sides to ensure adequate local treatment. Amputation has commonly been performed for extracompartmental lesions, but a multinodal treatment programme, including limb-sparing resection and tumour-bed radiation, should now be considered if possible in the management of these tumours.
Is preoperative cytologic diagnosis of epithelioid sarcoma possible?	Epithelioid sarcoma (ES) is a rare malignant neoplasm of the soft tissues with a predilection for distal extremities of young adults. A "proximal" variant was recently described. The preoperative fine-needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) differential diagnosis with necrotizing granuloma, carcinoma, melanoma, and other neoplasms with epithelioid morphology can be difficult and few cases have been described in the literature. The authors present the preoperative FNAC findings of 10 aspirates of ES, corresponding to seven patients (four men and three women, ages 13-72 years). The cytologic features were compared with histologic features as well as with the FNA patterns of other neoplasms with epithelioid morphology that may be included in the differential diagnosis. Cytologic smears showed tumor cells with an epithelioid to spindle cell morphology, dispersed and in loose clusters in close relation with a fibrillar hyaline material. The cells showed moderate anisocariosis, a vast well-defined, often dense cytoplasm with immunoexpression of vimentin, cytokeratin, and CD 34. When the FNA cytologic features described above are accompanied by the adequate clinical setting and are supported by immunocytochemistry, an accurate preoperative cytologic diagnosis of ES is possible.
Undifferentiated embryonal sarcoma of the liver: case report and literature survey.	Undifferentiated embryonal sarcoma (UES) of the liver was first identified as an independent clinicopathologic type of sarcoma in 1978. It is an uncommon hepatic tumor, of mesenchymal origin, usually observed in children, and cases in adults are rare: to our best knowledge, reports of only 51 cases have been published in the past 50 years. We present a case of UES of the liver in a previously healthy 22 year-old woman, admitted to our hospital due to a palpable mass in the right upper abdomen. On admission, laboratory studies showed mildly elevated aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and gamma-GPT. Hepatitis and tumor markers were negative. Ultrasonography (US), computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a large mass involving the right lobe and the medial segment of the liver, with compression of the bile duct. Right trisectionectomy with bile duct resection and reconstruction was performed. Microscopically, the tumor was composed of pleomorphic spindle cells in a myxoid stroma with focal staining of S-100 by immunohistochemistry. The histologic diagnosis was UES. Adjuvant therapy with vincristine, actinomycin-D, and cyclophosphamide was performed, and at 14 months of follow-up, the patient is alive without any evidence of recurrence. The clinical and histopathological features, as well as the therapeutic choices for adult UES, are described for this patient and in the literature of the past 50 years.
Association of HDM2 transcript levels with age of onset and prognosis in soft tissue sarcomas.	The p53 stress response is crucial for the prevention of tumor formation. The oncogene HDM2 is one of the key negative regulators of p53 and is a central node in the p53 pathway. P53 and HDM2 form an oscillating feedback loop. HDM2 expression is regulated by different promoters. To evaluate its clinical relevance, we determined the levels of HDM2 transcripts originating from the constitutive P1 and p53-sensitive P2 promoter in 133 soft tissue sarcomas and correlated the results with the age of diagnosis and the patients' outcome. We show that only high levels of the HDM2-P1 transcript but not the P2 transcript are associated with an 11-year earlier age of onset (50.5 years) compared with low P1 levels (61.5 years; P < 0.0001, t test). In addition, low P1 and P2 mRNA expression levels were independent predictors of poor outcome for patients with soft tissue sarcomas (low P1: relative risk, 3.7; P < 0.0001; low P2: relative risk, 2.5; P = 0.001). A change in the expression levels of the HDM2 transcripts originating from the two HDM2 promoters could disrupt the oscillating P53-HDM2 feedback loop in a way that elevated levels of HDM2-P1 transcript are associated with an earlier age of tumor onset and that reduced levels of HDM2-P1 or HDM2-P2 transcripts are correlated with poor prognosis of patients with soft tissue sarcomas.
Uterine sarcoma 2008.	Uterine sarcomas are a group of rare and usually aggressive soft tissue cancers. They have a wide range of histologic appearances, from myomatous to osteous to stromal. The three major subtypes of uterine sarcomas (listed in decreasing order of incidence) are carcinosarcoma, leiomyosarcoma, and endometrial stromal sarcoma. Most patients with uterine sarcomas are middle- to older-aged women who present with abnormal uterine bleeding or pelvic mass, which may be confused with leiomyoma. Surgery--including hysterectomy and resection of disease--serves as the main treatment modality. Adjuvant therapies, including radiation, chemotherapy, and/or hormonal therapy, have limited benefit on overall survival; however, this may be due to the lack of good randomized controlled trials of sufficient size because of uterine sarcomas' rare and aggressive nature. For patients with metastatic recurrent disease, aggressive therapy is limited by low response rates and limited duration of response. For patients with uterine sarcomas, enrollment in clinical trials is strongly encouraged.
Epithelioid sarcoma mimicking angiosarcoma: the value of immunohistochemistry in the differential diagnosis.	Epithelioid sarcoma (ES) is a rare malignant tumour of young adults, usually presenting as a skin ulcer or subcutaneous nodule in the distal portion of the upper limb. Multiple recurrences and late metastases are typical, leading to fatality in a third to one-half of all cases. The slow evolution of the tumour is one reason for its delayed recognition. The other is its frequent histological misinterpretation, in particular, as a peculiar granulomatous reaction. In our case, the primary tumour presented a variant morphological pattern so closely mimicking a cavernous angiosarcoma as to mislead several reputable opinions. Later recurrences and metastases were typical of ES, while a focal angiomatoid pattern was maintained. The morphology and immunoreactivity to a wide spectrum of tumour markers is compared with that of six file cases of classical ES. Retrospectively, all neoplastic lesions in our patient were ES. In young adults, lesions of the upper extremity, even when angiomatoid or haemorrhagic, should raise a suspicion of ES. Once epithelioid sarcoma is suspected, the differential diagnosis can be elucidated on immunohistochemical grounds. Early diagnosis provides the best opportunity for radical surgery at a stage when the tumour has not spread locally or disseminated systemically.
Recent advances in the molecular pathology of soft tissue sarcoma: implications for diagnosis, patient prognosis, and molecular target therapy in the future.	In the present paper, recent advances in the molecular pathology of soft tissue sarcomas (STS) and the implications for their prognostic value are reviewed, and the potential targets of molecular therapy are discussed. According to the molecular genetic aspect, STS are divided into two groups: chromosome translocation-associated sarcomas and sarcomas without specific translocation. In the former group,specific fusion transcripts, such as SS18SSX, EWSFLI1, and PAX3FKHR, could be detected in synovial sarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma and primitive neuroectodermal tumor, and alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma,respectively. The direct or indirect interactions between these fusion transcripts and cell cycle regulators have been elucidated by several investigators. Therefore, these fusion transcripts are promising candidates as molecular targets. As evaluated in carcinomas,alterations of several tumor-suppressor genes and adhesion molecules and overexpression of growth factors and their receptors have been extensively assessed in STS. In mixed-type STS, epidermal growth factor receptor overexpression was associated with decreased overall survival, suggesting the beneficial role of epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors in STS. In malignant rhabdoid tumor and epithelioid sarcoma, frequent alteration of the SMARCB1/INI1 tumor-suppressor gene and the loss of its protein have been demonstrated, indicating that this molecule could be an effective target of these sarcomas. In sarcomas with epithelioid differentiation,such as synovial sarcoma and epithelioid sarcoma, overexpression of dysadherin, which downregulates E-cadherin expression, was a poor prognostic factor. In conclusion, further studies are necessary to search for effective and specific molecules for the inhibition of tumor growth in each type of STS, especially in sarcomas without specific translocation.
Gene expression profiling for the investigation of soft tissue sarcoma pathogenesis and the identification of diagnostic, prognostic, and predictive biomarkers.	Soft tissue sarcomas are malignant neoplasms derived from mesenchymal tissues. Their pathogenesis is poorly understood and there are few effective treatment options for advanced disease. In the past decade, gene expression profiling has been applied to sarcomas to facilitate understanding of sarcoma pathogenesis and to identify diagnostic, prognostic, and predictive markers. In this paper, we review this body of work and discuss how gene expression profiling has led to advancements in the understanding of sarcoma pathobiology, the identification of clinically useful biomarkers, and the refinement of sarcoma classification schemes. Lastly, we conclude with a discussion of strategies to further optimize the translation of gene expression data into a greater understanding of sarcoma pathogenesis and improved clinical outcomes for sarcoma patients.
Malignant disease in childhood: the problems in general practice.	The role of the family doctor with regard to malignant disease in childhood, can be summarized as follows: To act appropriately so that early diagnosis, which to an important degree determines the prognosis, is not delayed by a justifiably low index of suspicion. To assist the family, including the siblings, to cope with the severe emotional stress inherpent in the diagnosis of a malignancy in a child. To recognize the extreme danger of chicken pox and measles when contracted during chemotherapy, for cytotoxic drugs are also immune-suppressants, and appropriate immune globulins can be life-saving. To arrange for and cooperate in the support necessary when a child is nursed at home in the terminal stages.
Thoraco-scapular amputation in sarcomas of the shoulder girdle]	A total of 121 patients with sarcomas localized to the shoulder girdle were referred to the Sarcoma Centre in Arhus. Of these, 17 (14%) underwent interscapulothoracic amputation. At the time of treatment, the average age was 51 years (17-82 years). Eleven of these patients had sarcomas of bone and six had soft tissue sarcomas. Late diagnosis or previous surgical interventions contributed to the indication for the mutilating procedure. At the time of referral, six of the 11 cases of bone sarcomas were complicated by a pathological fracture and all six soft tissue sarcomas had been submitted to incisional biopsy or non-radical treatment. The soft tissue sarcomas were usually large with an average maximum diameter of 10 cm (4-15 cm). Postoperative recovery was uncomplicated in all cases. Local recurrence occurred in three patients (18%). Eight patients (47%) developed metastases and died from the tumour on an average of 32 months (7-94 months) after operation. Two patients died from other causes without tumour. Seven patients (41%) were tumourfree and alive for an average of 69 months (21-128 months) after operation. Only three of these seven patients wore their shoulder-arm prosthesis regularly while the remainder preferred to be either without a prosthesis or to use a lightweight shoulder prosthesis. None of the seven patients still experienced phantom pain necessitating analgetics. All of the patients were self-reliant in everyday life and the five patients who had been occupationally active until the time of operation had returned to work. The prognosis after interscapulothoracic amputation depends upon the primary malignant disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Molecular pathology of sarcomas: concepts and clinical implications.	The molecular genetic changes that have been described in sarcomas over the past era have aided our understanding of their pathogenesis. The majority of sarcomas carry nonspecific genetic changes within a background of a complex karyotype. These constitute the challenges in sarcoma research for unraveling a putative multistep genetic model, such as for chondrosarcoma, and finding targets for therapeutic strategies. Approximately 15-20% of mesenchymal tumors carry a specific translocation within a relatively simple karyotype. The resulting fusion products act either as transcription factors upregulating genes responsible for tumor growth, as for instance in Ewing sarcoma, or translocate a highly active promoter in front of an oncogene driving tumor formation, as for instance in aneurysmal bone cyst. In addition, a small subset of mesenchymal tumors have specific somatic mutations driving oncogenesis. The specific genetic changes unraveled so far had great impact on the classification of bone and soft tissue tumors. In addition, these changes can assist the pathologist in the differential diagnosis of some of these entities, especially within the groups of small blue round cell tumors and spindle cell tumors, if performed in specialized centers. While a putative association between certain fusion products and outcome is still under debate, the role of predicting response of targeted therapy has been well established for KIT and PDGFRA mutations in gastrointestinal stromal tumors.
Resection and reconstruction for soft-tissue sarcomas of the extremity.	Soft-tissue sarcomas are uncommon malignant tumors, and when a diagnosis is made early, the patient has up to an 80% chance of surviving. In treating soft-tissue sarcomas, the goal of the surgeon is the prolongation of patient survival, the total eradication of local disease, and the minimization of functional deficits. In addition to treatment, this article discusses evaluation, histology, and staging.
Soft tissue sarcomas of the extremity and retroperitoneum: advances in management.	The treatment of soft tissue sarcomas continues to pose significant challenges. The past decade has seen a dramatic increase in multimodality therapy for these tumors, with a resultant decrease in the number of amputations performed for extremity lesions. Even with combined modality treatment, however, the prognosis remains grim for most patients with retroperitoneal sarcomas, in which delay in diagnosis and tumor proximity to vital structures hinder the chances for cure. Improved protocols for the treatment of retroperitoneal sarcomas must be developed if we are to match the successes achieved with extremity tumors. As efforts to decrease local recurrence of extremity sarcomas have been largely successful, a new challenge to decrease the frequency of systemic metastases has emerged. Although aggressive surgical approaches to recurrent and metastatic sarcomas can result in long-term survival in some cases, better treatments are needed for those patients whose resections fail or those who are not candidates for resection. Combined modality treatments and new modalities, such as adoptive immunotherapy, need to be carefully evaluated in this group of patients. Enormous strides have been made in the treatment of osteogenic sarcomas and some pediatric soft tissue sarcomas. Additional research into basic tumor biology, as well as major intergroup studies of therapy, will be necessary if we are to duplicate those achievements in the more refractory adult soft tissue sarcomas.
Primary sarcomas of the major salivary glands.	Sarcomas arising in the major salivary glands are rare. This article presents the clinicopathologic features of 11 patients with primary sarcomas of the parotid gland (eight men and three women aged 7 to 75 years; mean age, 42 years). The 11 sarcomas were histologically typified as follows: three malignant fibrous histiocytomas and two each of neurosarcomas, rhabdomyosarcomas, fibrosarcomas, and osteosarcomas. Four patients experienced disease recurrences, and seven patients developed metastases. Seven patients died of their sarcomas, with a mean survival time of 30 months. Four patients were alive from 5 to 12 years (one each with angiomatoid malignant fibrous histiocytoma, embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, and neurosarcoma). Prognosis correlated with size of the neoplasm, type of sarcoma, and histologic grade. In this respect, salivary gland sarcomas behaved in identical fashion to their soft-tissue counterparts.
Case report 651: Thrombosed, leaking popliteal aneurysm.	A thrombosed, leaking aneurysm of the popliteal artery, mimicking a soft tissue sarcoma both clinically and by MRI examination, is described. It may be difficult to separate a leaking, thrombosed aneurysm from an inflammatory response secondary to a sarcoma with intralesional hemorrhage. An aneurysm should, however, be considered in the differential diagnosis if the mass is present in a well-recognized location for aneurysm and is associated with vascular engulfment and signs of subacute or chronic hemorrhage.
An unusual organoid tumor. Alveolar soft part sarcoma or paraganglioma?	The histogenesis of alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS) is a subject of continued debate. Although many recent reports suggest a muscle origin, others advocate a neuroendocrine derivation. A tumor in the chest wall of a 16-year-old woman was diagnosed and treated as ASPS. The light microscopic, electron microscopic, and immunohistochemical findings showed features of both ASPS and paraganglioma. In addition, this lesion was positive for antibody to glucagon, a characteristic of neither ASPS nor paraganglioma, although seen in a few gangliocytic paragangliomas. This case demonstrates the need for continued inquiry into the histogenesis of ASPS.
Imaging of the most frequent superficial soft-tissue sarcomas.	Superficial soft-tissue sarcomas are malignant mesenchymal tumors located within the cutaneous and/or subcutaneous layers. Most superficial soft-tissue sarcomas are low-grade tumors; yet, the risk of local recurrence is high, and initial wide surgery is the main prognostic factor. Some of these superficial sarcomas may grow, following an infiltrative pattern, and their real extent may be underestimated clinically. Imaging techniques are useful to determine precisely the real margins of the tumor, especially in cases of clinically doubtful or recurrent or large superficial lesions. Imaging tools enable one to determine the relationship with the superficial fascia separating the subcutaneous layer from the underlying muscle. In our institution ultrasonographic examination is followed by magnetic resonance (MR) imaging when the size of the lesion exceeds 3-5cm. Imaging assessment is performed prior to biopsy, enabling optimal surgical management. Imaging features of the main superficial sarcomas are detailed in the following article, according to their major locations: those arising in the epidermis and/or dermis, which are most often diagnosed by dermatologists, and the subcutaneous sarcomas.
A case of undifferentiated (embryonal) liver sarcoma mimicking klatskin tumor in an adult]	Undifferentiated sarcoma is an uncommon primary malignant tumor of the liver typically occurring in older children. It is also referred to as malignant mesenchymoma, fibromyxosarcoma, or mesenchymal sarcoma. We experienced a case of undifferentiated sarcoma in 72-year-old male. Contrast enhanced liver CT scan revealed a 3.4 cm heterogeneously enhancing, ill-defined, and low attenuated mass in the left liver and subtle intrahepatic duct dilatation. And, in tubogram, there were segmental stenosis and occlusion from the hilum to the proximal common bile duct. We did ultrasonography guided liver biopsy. The pathologic finding revealed infiltrative growth of atypical cells with rhabdoid features. Some atypical cells showed clear cytoplasm, but no organoid pattern was identified. The stroma around atypical cells was filled with eosinophilic hyaline material. These tumor cells were positive for vimentin only, and the tumor was consistent with undifferentiated sarcoma of the liver.
Soft-tissue sarcomas: Overview of management, with a focus on surgical treatment considerations.	Patients with soft-tissue sarcomas generally present with a mass that is increasing in size; the presence or absence of pain is not typically predictive of malignancy. While magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can identify a few soft-tissue lesion types as benign, diagnosis of most lesions requires a careful biopsy, preferably performed by or in consultation with the surgeon who would do an eventual resection. If biopsy confirms a diagnosis of sarcoma, MRI-guided surgical resection with a wide margin is the mainstay of treatment. Neoadjuvant radiation therapy and chemotherapy have not been of proven benefit in well-controlled studies but are frequently used as adjuncts. Resections with wide margins are generally associated with a low (< 10%) risk of recurrence.
Clinical presentation and imaging of bone and soft-tissue sarcomas.	The clinical presentation of bone and soft-tissue sarcomas is varied. Constitutional symptoms are rare, and although bone sarcomas tend to be painful while soft-tissue sarcomas usually are not, there are exceptions to this general rule. A high index of suspicion is required for any unexplained mass with indeterminate imaging findings. Choosing the right imaging modality is critical to the diagnosis and management of patients with suspected sarcoma, and referring clinicians have a multitude of imaging options. After discovery of a malignant-appearing bone lesion by radiography, further imaging is obtained for better characterization of the lesion (typically with magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]) and for staging (typically with computed tomography of the chest). In contrast, radiographs are rarely helpful for evaluation of soft-tissue lesions, which almost always require MRI assessment.
Epizootiology and distribution of transmissible sarcoma in Maryland softshell clams, Mya arenaria, 1984-1988.	Seasonal and geographic studies of transmissible sarcoma in Maryland softshell clams, Mya arenaria, were carried out from 1984 to 1988. Three major epizootics occurred in our sampling location during this time, resulting in prevalences as high as 90%, with comparable mortalities in other high prevalence areas. The disease invaded populations of large adult clams first, later spreading to the small juvenile clam populations. An apparent 2-year cycle was noted with varying seasonal effects. Affected sites tended to be in the main stem of Chesapeake Bay north of Tangier Sound, primarily in the areas where the major harvesting occurs. Several sites, mostly in upstream locations, were consistently free of disease. The epizootiological study supports the interpretation that the disease is infectious exclusively to this species. Regression analysis between sarcoma prevalence and contaminant levels in clam tissues showed a significant correlation (p = 0.0001) between chlordane levels and this disease. No correlations were found with other contaminants that were analyzed.
Low-grade intracranial fibromyxoid sarcoma: A case report]	The aim of this report is to show the MRI and CT findings for an extra-axial intracranial low-grade fibromyxoid sarcoma. To our knowledge, only three similar cases have been reported to date. We present the case of an 18-year-old woman who presented with a five-month history of hypoacusia, tinnitus, occipital headache, and left facial paresis. CT showed a large, homogeneous, expansive lesion in the left pontocerebellar angle that was eroding the promontory and affecting the posterior jugular foramen. At MRI, the lesion was homogeneous and isointense with respect to the cerebral parenchyma on T1-weighted sequences and heterogeneous and hypointense on T2-weighted sequences; after the administration of contrast material, it showed intense, homogeneous enhancement. The definitive diagnosis was established by histopathologic and immunohistochemical study.
Cytologic diagnosis of sarcoma]	Soft tissue swelling represents a common clinical sign of a variety of neoplastic and non-neoplastic lesions. Sarcoma is rarely a cause. Fine needle biopsy as a minimally invasive, economic and accurate method is well suited for the diagnosis of inflammatory/infectious processes as well as of recurrent and metastatic disease. Cytologic diagnosis of primary soft tissue tumors is also feasible. It requires close collaboration with other medical disciplines and incorporation of clinical, radiological and morphologic findings. Clinical data such as age, gender, size and topography are important parameters. The differentiation of cells and properties of the extracellular matrix supplies clues for the differential diagnosis and forms the starting point for immunohistochemical or molecular analysis (FISH, RT-PCR). This analysis may be performed on cytological smears, paraffin embedded material of the cell blocks or on frozen material.
Immunohistochemical diagnosis of canine oral amelanotic melanocytic neoplasms.	Definitive diagnosis of canine oral melanocytic neoplasms is often difficult because of variability in pigmentation and cellular pleomorphism. These neoplasms can resemble carcinomas, sarcomas, and round cell neoplasms, which differ in prognosis and treatment. A variety of immunohistochemical antibodies have been used for diagnosis of melanocytic neoplasms in humans and dogs; however, sensitivity and specificity of many markers have not been determined in amelanotic melanocytic neoplasms in dogs. The authors investigated a comprehensive panel of immunohistochemical markers in 49 canine oral amelanotic melanocytic neoplasms--namely, Melan-A, PNL2, HMB-45, microphthalmia transcription factor (MiTF), S-100, tyrosine hydroxylase, tyrosinase, tyrosinase-related proteins 1 and 2 (TRP-1 and TRP-2), and CD34. Ten well-differentiated cutaneous soft tissue spindle cell sarcomas were negative controls. Melan-A, PNL2, TRP-1, and TRP-2 were highly sensitive and 100% specific for the diagnosis of canine oral amelanotic melanocytic neoplasms. S-100 and MiTF showed high sensitivity but were less specific; that is, they also labeled a proportion of the soft tissue spindle cell sarcomas. HMB-45, tyrosinase, and tyrosine hydroxylase were 100% specific but had low sensitivities. CD34 did not label any of the melanocytic neoplasms but did label 80% of the soft tissue spindle cell sarcomas. A cost-effective and efficient immunodiagnostic cocktail containing antibodies against PNL2, Melan-A, TRP-1, and TRP-2 was created that had 100% specificity and 93.9% sensitivity in identifying canine oral amelanotic melanocytic neoplasms. The spindloid variant was the variant with the lowest sensitivity to the cocktail. The likelihood of correctly diagnosing canine oral amelanotic melanocytic neoplasms was dramatically higher when biopsy samples contained ample overlying and adjacent epithelium.
High-level expression of podoplanin in benign and malignant soft tissue tumors: immunohistochemical and quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis.	Podoplanin is a 38 kDa mucin-type transmembrane glycoprotein that was first identified in rat glomerular epithelial cells (podocytes). It is expressed in normal lymphatic endothelium, but is absent from vascular endothelial cells. D2-40 is a commercially available mouse monoclonal antibody which binds to an epitope on human podoplanin. D2-40 immunoreactivity is therefore highly sensitive and specific for lymphatic endothelium. Recent investigations have shown widespread applications of immunohistochemical staining with D2-40 in evaluating podoplanin expression as an immunohistochemical marker for diagnosis and prognosis in various tumors. To determine whether the podoplanin (D2-40) antibody may be useful for the diagnosis of soft tissue tumors, 125 cases, including 4 kinds of benign tumors, 15 kinds of malignant tumors and 3 kinds of tumor-like lesions were immunostained using the D2-40 antibody. Total RNA was extracted from frozen tumor tissue obtained from 41 corresponding soft tissue tumor patients and 12 kinds of soft tissue tumor cell lines. Quantitative real-time PCR reactions were performed. Immunohistochemical and quantitative real-time RT-PCR analyses demonstrated the expression of the podoplanin protein and mRNA in the majority of benign and malignant soft tissue tumors and tumor-like lesions examined, with the exception of alveolar soft part sarcoma, embryonal and alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma, extraskeletal Ewing's sarcoma/peripheral primitive neuro-ectodermal tumor and lipoma, which were completely negative for podoplanin. Since it is widely and highly expressed in nearly all kinds of soft tissue tumors, especially in spindle cell sarcoma, myxoid type soft tissue tumors and soft tissue tumors of the nervous system, podoplanin is considered to have little value in the differential diagnosis of soft tissue tumors.
Uterine sarcomas--recent progress and future challenges.	Uterine sarcomas are a group of rare tumours that provide considerable challenges in their treatment. Radiological diagnosis prior to hysterectomy is difficult, with the diagnosis frequently made post-operatively. Current staging systems have been unsatisfactory, although a new FIGO staging system specifically for uterine sarcomas has now been introduced, and may allow better grouping of patients according to expected prognosis. While the mainstay of treatment of early disease is a total abdominal hysterectomy, it is less clear whether routine oophorectomy or lymphadenectomy is necessary. Adjuvant pelvic radiotherapy may improve local tumour control in high risk patients, but is not associated with an overall survival benefit. Similarly there is no good evidence for the routine use of adjuvant chemotherapy. For advanced leiomyosarcoma, newer chemotherapy agents including gemcitabine and docetaxel, and trabectedin, offer some promise, while hormonal therapies appear to be more useful in endometrial stromal sarcoma. Novel targeted agents are now being introduced for sarcomas, and uterine sarcomas, and show some indications of activity. Non-pharmacological treatments, including surgical metastatectomy, radiofrequency ablation, and CyberKnife() radiotherapy, are important additions to systemic therapy for advanced metastatic disease.
Pseudomyogenic hemangioendothelioma: a distinctive, often multicentric tumor with indolent behavior.	A 1992 report described 5 keratin-positive spindle cell neoplasms with multifocal presentation in a single limb, which were proposed at that time to be a variant of epithelioid sarcoma. This tumor type is not widely recognized and is incompletely characterized. We examined 50 cases of this distinctive tumor to evaluate histologic, immunophenotypic, and clinical features. There was a 4.6:1 male predominance (mean age, 31 y; 82% 40 y). Half of the patients presented with painful nodules and the other half with painless nodules. Mean tumor size was 1.9 cm (range, 0.3 to 5.5 cm). Tumors arose in the lower limb (54%), the upper limb (24%), trunk (18%), or head and neck (4%). Thirty-three (66%) were multifocal lesions (ranging from 2 to 15 lesions), including 32 cases with involvement of multiple tissue planes. Of 205 total lesions, 64 (31%) involved the dermis, 42 (20%) involved the subcutis, 70 (34%) lesions involved muscle, and 29 (14%) lesions involved bone; all the lesions had infiltrative margins. The tumors were composed of loose fascicles and sheets of plump spindle cells with vesicular nuclei, variably prominent nucleoli, and abundant brightly eosinophilic cytoplasm, some with a strikingly rhabdomyoblast-like appearance. In all cases, a minority of cells were epithelioid. Twenty-seven tumors contained a prominent neutrophilic inflammatory infiltrate. Most tumors showed only mild nuclear atypia; 6 tumors contained foci of notably pleomorphic cells. The median mitotic rate was 1 per 10 HPF (range, 1 to 10). Seven tumors showed vascular invasion; 7 tumors had areas of necrosis. By immunohistochemistry, all tumors were diffusely positive for AE1/AE3 and FLI1; 22 of 47 tumors were variably positive for CD31. Focal positivity was seen for CAM5.2 (21 of 35), smooth muscle actin (14 of 42), epithelial membrane antigen (7 of 49 weak), and PAN-K (MNF116) (1 of 47). All were negative for CD34, desmin, and S100 protein and showed intact INI1 expression. Follow-up was available for 31 patients and ranged from 9 months to 17 years (mean, 4 y). Most lesions were treated by local excision. Eighteen (58%) patients had local recurrence or developed additional nodules in the same region, all but one, within 1 year of first presentation. Eight patients had postoperative radiation therapy and 6 patients had chemotherapy. Four patients had amputations for multifocal disease. One patient had a regional lymph node metastasis, and, thus far, only 1 patient has developed distant metastases (disseminated), 16 years after primary tumor excision. At the time of the last follow-up, 27 patients were alive with no evidence of the disease, 1 patient was alive with unknown disease status, 2 patients were alive with recurrent disease, and 1 patient died of the disease. In summary, we describe a distinctive type of rarely metastasizing ("intermediate") tumor affecting mainly young men and usually characterized by multifocality in different tissue planes of a limb. Although sharing some features with epithelioid sarcoma (skin/soft tissue of distal extremities, young adults, keratin positive), it differs by having predominantly myoid-appearing spindle cell morphology, expression of FLI1, common reactivity for CD31, lack of epithelial membrane antigen, CD34, and PAN-K expression, and intact INI1. The overall immunophenotypic findings favor endothelial differentiation. Despite the ominous presentation, follow-up thus far suggests an indolent clinical course with a small risk of distant metastasis. Although the precise nosologic status of this tumor type is uncertain, we propose the interim designation "pseudomyogenic hemangioendothelioma."
Primary mediastinal sarcomas]	Primary sarcomas of the mediastinum are rare and account for 2 to 8% of malignant mediastinal tumours. The aim of this study is to describe their clinical and pathological characteristics.
The diagnosis and treatment of soft tissue sarcomas of the limbs.	The diagnosis of soft-tissue sarcomas of the limbs is often delayed, sometimes markedly so, even though prompt and appropriate treatment improves survival and lowers the amputation rate.
Sarcoma gene signatures]	This review reports the main gene signature specific for the diagnosis, prognosis or prediction of drug response in sarcomas. Almost half of sarcomas show a simple genetic lesion which is specific for the diagnosis: recurrent translocations in 10 to 15% of sarcomas, specific activating and inactivating mutations in GIST and rhabdoid tumor respectively, and MDM2 amplification in well-differentiated and dedifferentiated liposarcomas as well as in intimal sarcoma. A recent study reported a gene expression signature which is much better than histological grading for predicting metastasis outcome. This signature is composed of 67 genes all belonging to pathways involved in chromosome integrity suggesting an important role of these mechanisms in the development of metastases. On the other hand, and except for GIST with KIT and PDGFRA mutations, there is no validated predictive gene signature so far.
Ezrin expression predicts local recurrence and development of metastases in soft tissue sarcomas.	Ezrin is a cytoskeletal protein involved in tumour growth and invasion. Ezrin expression has been suggested to play a role in metastasis in paediatric osteosarcoma and rhabdomyosarcoma.
Cutaneous mycobacterial spindle cell pseudotumor: a potential mimic of soft tissue neoplasms.	A 55-year-old man with scleroderma treated with prednisone and etanercept presented with enlarging sporotrichoid nodules on the forearm. Microscopically, there were large circumscribed dermal and subcutaneous nodules of spindled and epithelioid cells, resembling a spindle cell neoplasm. Small foci of neutrophils were also present, and a subsequent Ziehl-Neelsen stain highlighted beaded acid-fast bacilli in the interstitium. Tissue culture demonstrated Mycobacterium chelonae. Cutaneous mycobacterial spindle cell pseudotumor is an exceedingly rare lesion, with only 6 previously reported cases. Although these included patients with autoimmune disease receiving immunosuppressive therapy, this is the first case reported in association with a tumor necrosis factor alpha inhibitor, etanercept. Furthermore, this represents the first mycobacterial spindle cell pseudotumor described in association with M. chelonae. Mycobacterial spindle cell pseudotumor should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cutaneous spindle cell proliferations, especially in immunocompromised patients.
Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumour of maxilla.	Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumour (MPNST) is a very rare entity in head and neck with high rate of recurrences and local invasiveness. This tumour is usually found in lower extremities and only 10-12% occur in head and neck region. The diagnosis is considered as the most elusive and difficult among soft tissue sarcomas because of its non specific presentation, both clinically as well as pathologically. This difficulty has now been overcome by immunohistochemistry. We report here a case of MPNST in a 50 years old male with a localized right maxillary growth.
Undifferentiated high-grade pleomorphic sarcoma in a blind eye with a silicone prosthesis implant: a clinico-pathologic study.	To describe a rare case of an orbital undifferentiated sarcoma arising in an eviscerated eye socket with a silicone implant.
Capabilities of immunophenotyping of soft tissue sarcomas on cytosmears: results of examination of 57 tumors]	Analysis of the results of examining 57 primary and metastatic soft tissues tumors has shown the principal capabilities of immunophenotyping in the cytosmears for differential diagnosis, the determination of histogenesis, and the assessment of their prolferative activity. Its major benefit is short response time and easiness to use. All results were assessed by comparison with the data of immunohistochemical study on paraffin sections.
Clinicians' adherence versus non adherence to practice guidelines in the management of patients with sarcoma: a cost-effectiveness assessment in two European regions.	Although the management of sarcoma is improving, non adherence to clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) remains high, mainly because of the low incidence of the disease and the variety of histological subtypes. Since little is known about the health economics of sarcoma, we undertook a cost-effectiveness analysis (within the CONnective TIssue CAncer NETwork, CONTICANET) comparing costs and outcomes when clinicians adhered to CPGs and when they did not.
Prognostic impact of mRNA levels of osteopontin splice variants in soft tissue sarcoma patients.	It is well known that osteopontin (OPN) plays an important role in tumor progression and that a high OPN expression level in several tumor entities correlates with poor prognosis in cancer patients. However, little is known about the prognostic relevance of the OPN mRNA splice variants.
High-grade sarcoma masquerading as growing teratoma syndrome after resection of ovarian immature teratoma: report of a case.	A thorough literature search revealed no previous reports of this entity, and we are the first to describe a case of a high-grade sarcoma arising from a recurrent immature teratoma misdiagnosed as growing teratoma syndrome. The patient was a 23-yr-old female, diagnosed at the age of 20 with a Stage IIIB immature ovarian teratoma. After surgery and chemotherapy, the patient developed multiple liver and pelvic masses that were diagnosed as mature teratomas based on small samples obtained by computed tomography-guided core biopsy. Three years after diagnosis the patient presented with severe respiratory difficulty and following resection, the final pathology revealed multiple tumors with foci of high grade sarcoma compatible with primitive neuroectodermal tumor/extraskeletal Ewing sarcoma based on morphology and immunohistochemistry (CD99, CD56). However, on the basis of further immunostaining and fluorescent in situ hybridization studies negative for rearrangement of EWSR1, the final pathologic diagnosis was high-grade unspecified (undifferentiated) sarcoma. This case illustrates the pitfalls of biopsying 1 site in a patient with recurrence of a heterogeneous tumor such as immature ovarian teratoma, especially when rendering a benign diagnosis such as growing teratoma syndrome. It is of utmost importance to adequately sample large-volume recurrent teratomas, and we suggest biopsying several different sites, to increase the likelihood of detecting a malignant component.
Early symptoms of bone and soft tissue sarcomas: could they be diagnosed earlier?	Delays in diagnosis are common for patients with bone and soft tissue sarcoma (STS) despite guidance produced by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence. This study set out to identify early symptoms experienced by patients and reasons for delays in making  a definitive diagnosis.
Neonatal soft tissue sarcomas.	Soft tissue tumors in very young children pose diagnostic and therapeutic challenges. Vascular tumors are the most prevalent soft tissue neoplasms in the neonatal period. They are generally benign tumors, but may exhibit aggressive behaviour and cause life-threatening complications. Fibroblastic tumors of intermediate prognosis, more prevalent in very young children (especially infantile fibrosarcoma), are locally aggressive. Since metastases are unusual in this group of tumors, complete surgical resection is generally curative. However, these tumors often present a therapeutic challenge because of the location which makes complete surgical resection difficult. Among the malignant soft tissue tumors, rhabdomyosarcoma is most frequent. It is an aggressive high-grade tumor, with local invasiveness and a propensity to metastasize. These tumors respond to chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Neonates with rhabdomyosarcoma seem to have a worse prognosis than in older age groups. This may be a result of inappropriate dosing of chemotherapeutic agents and decreased use of radiation therapy among other factors.
Diagnostic problems in precancerous lesions and invasive carcinomas of the penis.	Penile precancerous and invasive lesions exhibit a variegated morphology. Although the diagnosis and classification of penile tumors is straightforward in most cases, a few entities are problematic, especially to pathologists from countries in which penile cancer is rarely encountered. The differential diagnosis of squamous hyperplasias from differentiated penile intraepithelial neoplasia or from extremely low-grade invasive neoplasms (eg, pseudohyperplastic and verrucous carcinomas) may be particularly difficult. Similarly, given the morphologic features shared by all verruciform tumors (ie, verrucous, warty, papillary, and cuniculatum carcinomas, along with giant condylomas), it is challenging at times to distinguish one from another. At the other end of the spectrum, because of their lack of differentiation, it is sometimes difficult to classify high-grade carcinomas, such as basaloid and sarcomatoid, which may have etiologic/prognostic implications. Penile mixed tumors, harboring more than 1 histologic subtype and grade, constitute a frequent finding in routine pathology. The recognition of distinctive morphologic patterns and histologic grades in these tumors is important because these features could be related to etiologic factors, such as human papillomavirus infection, or they could influence outcome. Penile tumors with glandular features (eg, adenosquamous and mucoepidermoid carcinomas), although rare, may be confused with the more common pseudoglandular (adenoid, acantholytic) variant of squamous cell carcinomas, their main mimicker. In this review we provide clues that may help in the differential diagnosis of these lesions.
Expression of claudin-1 in canine peripheral nerve sheath tumours and perivascular wall tumours. Immunohistochemical study.	A peripheral nerve sheath tumour consists of neoplastic Schwann cells or perineurial cells, or a mixture of Schwann cells, perineurial cells and fibroblasts. The first aim of the present study was to characterise the expression of the claudin-1 tight junction protein in canine intact peripheral nerves, canine benign peripheral nerve sheath tumours (cBPNSTs), such as schwannomas, neurofibromas, perineuriomas and canine malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumours (cMPNSTs), and in different other benign and malignant canine spindle cell tumours. The second aim of the present study was to examine whether claudin-1 can help to distinguish the subgroups of canine perivascular wall tumours.
Acute phase protein levels in dogs with mast cell tumours and sarcomas.	The acute phase proteins (APP) form part of a non-specific host response to inflammation. They may be induced by a range of different causes, including infection, inflammation, cancer and trauma. As they form part of the earliest response to such insults, they have potential for early identification of disease. In people, APP levels have been shown to correlate both with the extent of disease and also the prognosis in several forms of neoplasia, including prostate, oesophageal and colorectal cancer. As such, they can be used as prognostic and monitoring tools. To date, similar studies in veterinary patients have been limited, largely retrospective in nature and many are non-specific for tumour type. The purpose of this study was to evaluate a panel of four APPs in dogs with naturally occurring mast cell tumours (MCTs) and sarcomas to identify in the first instance whether increased levels of individual APPs, or identifiable combinations of APPs, was linked with the presence of disease. In the patients with MCTs, C-reactive protein (CRP) and -1 acid glycoprotein levels increased, with a concurrent drop in serum amyloid A levels. In the sarcoma patients, CRP, -1 acid glycoprotein and haptoglobin were increased. These findings suggest that specific solid tumour types in dogs may be associated with specific changes in APP profiles.
At the crossroads of molecular biology, pathology and the clinic.	This article outlines some of the highlights of the fourth ESMO Conference on Sarcoma and GIST, a broad-based international multidisciplinary educational meeting that focused on recent advances made in molecular biology and genetics, and the state-of-the art diagnosis and treatment of soft tissue sarcoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumors.
SEOM clinical guidelines for the management of adult soft tissue sarcomas.	Soft tissue sarcomas are uncommon tumors of mesenchimal cell origin. Criteria for suspicion is a soft tissue mass that is increasing in size, and has a size greater than 5 cm or is located under the deep fascia. Diagnosis and management of these patients should preferably be performed by a specialist multidisciplinary team in a referral center. Assessment of a patient with a suspect of sarcoma should include magnetic resonance and biopsy performed prior to surgery. Primary local therapy for patients with localized sarcoma is based on wide surgical resection with a tumor-free tissue margin, in association in most cases with radiotherapy. Adjuvant chemotherapy constitutes an option that could be considered in high-risk sarcomas of the extremities. When metastasis are present, surgery of pulmonary lesions, in some selected patients, and chemotherapy are current available options.
Uterine sarcomas: then and now.	The purpose of this article is to provide an updated review of uterine sarcomas. The traditionally described neoplasms are reviewed as well as several recently characterized entities in terms of their imaging and clinical aspects. We attempt to provide a longitudinal imaging overview, from initial presentation to follow-up. Imaging features are also described of response to traditional therapeutic agents and newer targeted agents.
CTNNB1 mutation analysis is a useful tool for the diagnosis of desmoid tumors: a study of 260 desmoid tumors and 191 potential morphologic mimics.	Desmoid tumors are benign monoclonal fibroblastic or myofibroblastic neoplasms, characterized by local invasiveness and high rates of recurrence. Desmoid tumors must be distinguished from benign fibroblastic and myofibroblastic lesions, as well as from low-grade sarcoma, which can appear histologically similar to desmoid tumors. This differential diagnosis can be very difficult, especially when diagnosis is based on a core needle biopsy. On the molecular level, most sporadic desmoid tumors are associated with mutations of the -catenin gene (CTNNB1). A minority of desmoid tumors are associated with Gardner syndrome and mutations of the familial adenomatous polyposis gene. We identified the common CTNNB1 mutations associated with sporadic desmoid tumors by direct sequencing: in (i) 260 cases of typical desmoid tumors; and (ii) in 191 cases of spindle cell lesions, which can morphologically 'mimic' desmoid tumors. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues were obtained via core needle biopsy (n=150) or open biopsy/surgical excision (n=301). Only 16 cases (4%) were not analyzable (Bouin's fixed tissue). CTNNB1 mutations were observed in 223 of 254 (88%) of sporadic desmoid tumors. No CTNNB1 mutations were detected in all other lesions (n=175) studied. CTNNB1 sequencing can be easily and reliably done using tissues obtained via core needle biopsy. Detection of CTNNB1 mutations in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues among spindle cell lesions is proposed as a specific diagnostic tool for the diagnosis of desmoid tumors. This result has significant implications for patient care and management.
Scar sarcoidosis on a finger mimicking a rapidly growing soft tissue tumour: a case report.	Scar sarcoidosis is a rare and uncommon but specific cutaneous manifestation of sarcoidosis. In general it arises in pre-existing scars deriving from mechanical traumas. As most surgeons dealing with scars might not be aware of cutaneous sarcoidosis and its different types of appearance the appropriate staging and treatment might be missed or at least delayed. To our knowledge this is the first case in literature of scar sarcoidosis on a finger.
Percutaneous core needle biopsy versus open biopsy in diagnostics of bone and soft tissue sarcoma: a retrospective study.	Biopsy is a crucial step within the diagnostic cascade in patients with suspected bone or soft tissue sarcoma. Open biopsy is still considered the gold standard. However, recent literature suggests similar results for percutaneous biopsy techniques. Therefore, the aim of this retrospective analysis was to compare open and percutaneous core needle biopsy (CNB) regarding their accuracy in diagnosis of malignant musculoskeletal lesions.
Hibernoma of the thigh: a lipoma-like variant rare tumour mimicking soft tissue sarcoma.	A 43-year-old Caucasian woman appeared with painless progressively enlarging tumour of the anterior part of the left thigh of approximately 6 months' duration. A differential imaging diagnosis of liposarcoma or large lipoma was made. An excisional biopsy was performed with complete removal of a large lobulated and encapsulated grossly ovoid mass. Frozen section diagnosis was unidentified lipomatous tumour with no evidence of malignancy. The final pathological diagnosis was lipoma-like hibernoma. The patient's postoperative course was uneventful and discharged on the seventh postoperative day with full function of the involved leg. Hibernoma is benign tumour and it is not known to recur after complete local excision which is the treatment of choice.
Outcomes and prognostic factors of post-irradiation and de novo sarcomas of the head and neck: a histologically matched case-control study.	This study was designed to compare post-irradiation sarcomas (PIS) and de novo sarcomas (DN) of the head and neck in terms of tumor characteristics, prognostic factors, and survival outcomes.
Preliminary observations and clinical value of lipid peak in high-grade uterine sarcomas using in vivo proton MR spectroscopy.	To retrospectively evaluate the clinical significance of the lipid peak in in vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) for the diagnosis of high-grade uterine sarcomas.
Chondroid chordoma in an atypical location.	Chondroid chordoma is an extremely rare tumour with an annual incidence of around 0.1 cases per 100,000population. Involvement of the thoracic vertebrae may be present in 2-5% of cases. Definitive diagnosis usually requires a suitable distinction between this and other mesenchymal tumours such as chondrosarcomas, so immunohistochemical analysis is virtually mandatory. In spite of its slow-growing nature, chondroid chordoma tends to relapse, and it may eventually become malignant, often jeopardising the patient's prognosis. Although surgery remains the main therapeutic approach, research into the molecular and genetic aspects of this tumour is ongoing. These new advances are likely to improve future oncology therapies by complementing surgery and radiotherapy, changing the currently poor prognosis. We report the case of a patient with a chondroid chordoma involving the thoracic vertebrae and pleural cavity, and the treatment performed. 
Gemcitabine and docetaxel for metastatic soft tissue sarcoma - a single center experience.	Prognosis and survival for patients with metastatic soft tissue sarcoma (STS) are dismal. Standard first-line systemic chemotherapy is anthracycline-based. Gemcitabine/docetaxel (GD) is a therapeutic option in the second-line setting. Here we present the data of our single center retrospective analysis, using GD in locally advanced or metastatic disease.
Pulmonary arterial intimal sarcoma with retrograde extension: report of a case and review of literature.	Most of the pulmonary arterial sarcomas arise from multi-potential mesenchymal intimal cells and are designated as intimal sarcomas. These tumors grow in the direction of blood flow into peripheral arteries producing clinical features mimicking pulmonary thromboembolism. Retrograde extension is rare. We report one such case of intimal sarcoma that had a retrograde extension into the right ventricular outflow tract, and review such a presentation in the last ten years. 
Incomplete excisions of extremity soft tissue sarcomas are unaffected by insurance status or distance from a sarcoma center.	Soft tissue sarcomas (STS) continue to be excised inappropriately without proper preoperative planning. The reasons for this remain elusive. The role of insurance status and patient distance from sarcoma center in influencing such inappropriate excisions were examined in this study.
Comparative cost analysis of molecular biology methods in the diagnosis of sarcomas]	Sarcomas represent a complex and heterogeneous group of rare malignant tumors and their correct diagnosis is often difficult. Recent molecular biological techniques have been of great diagnostic use and there is a need to assess the cost of these procedures in routine clinical practice. Using prospective and observational data from eight molecular biology laboratories in France, we used "microcosting" method to assess the cost of molecular biological techniques in the diagnosis of five types of sarcoma. The mean cost of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was 318  (273-393) per sample; mean reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) cost ranged from 300  (229-481) per formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimen to 258  (213-339) per frozen specimen; mean quantitative polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR) cost was 184  (112-229) and mean CGH-array cost was 332  (329-335). The cost of these recently implemented techniques varied according to the type of sarcoma; the method of tissue collection and local organizational factors including the level of local expertise and investment. The cost of molecular diagnostic techniques needs to be balanced against their respective performance.
BRAF mutation in 'sarcomas': a possible method to detect de-differentiated melanomas.	BRAF is mutated in 50-60% of melanomas, but BRAF mutation in sarcomas has not been systematically evaluated. Some melanomas are spindled and may show no immunohistochemical evidence of melanocytic differentiation. Similarly, many sarcomas are undifferentiated, i.e. undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcomas (UPS). Diagnosing melanoma versus sarcoma in an undifferentiated spindle cell malignancy can be challenging. Our aim was to evaluate the prevalence of BRAF mutation in sarcomas and the use of BRAF mutational status in the diagnosis of spindle cell malignancies.
Management of sarcoma in the Asia-Pacific region: resource-stratified guidelines.	Sarcomas are a rare and diverse set of cancers that disproportionately affect young people. The best possible outcome depends on access to highly specialised, multidisciplinary care. Although advances have been made in therapeutic techniques, access to some treatments might be limited by cost implications. This Review proposes an evidence-based, consensus recommendation for optimum management of bone and soft-tissue sarcoma across the Asia-Pacific region, taking into account variation in health-care resources, stratified according to the Breast Health Global Initiative resource levels. A web-based survey of 89 clinicians involved in the care of patients with sarcoma from 18 Asia-Pacific countries generated the recommendations for diagnosis, staging, and management, including supportive and palliative care, and research. 
Sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma with rhabdoid features.	Sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma (SRCC) with rhabdoid features is a rare tumor with aggressive behavior and poor prognosis. We report a case of a 71-year-old man with a large left-sided renal mass. Nephrectomy specimen revealed clear cell carcinoma with sarcomatoid and rhabdoid tumor cells. The rhabdoid cells were immunoreactive for mesenchymal markers such as vimentin, epithelial markers such as cytokeratin, and epithelial membrane antigen. These cells were also positive for p53 and had a high proliferation index. The rhabdoid component also demonstrated the loss of immunostaining for integrase interactor 1 (INI1), which stained the other components of the tumor. Only a few cases are available in the published reports documenting rhabdoid cells in SRCC. None of these cases were studied by INI1 immunostain.
Metabolic activity measured on PET/CT correlates with clinical outcomes in patients with limb and girdle sarcomas.	To explore the relationship between metabolic activity and outcome in patients with extremity sarcomas.
Universal marker and detection tool for human sarcoma circulating tumor cells.	To date, no specific marker exists for the detection of circulating tumor cells (CTC) from different types of sarcomas, though tools are available for detection of CTCs in peripheral blood of patients with cancer for epithelial cancers. Here, we report cell-surface vimentin (CSV) as an exclusive marker on sarcoma CTC regardless of the tissue origin of the sarcoma as detected by a novel monoclonal antibody. Utilizing CSV as a probe, we isolated and enumerated sarcoma CTCs with high sensitivity and specificity from the blood of patients bearing different types of sarcoma, validating their phenotype by single cell genomic amplification, mutation detection, and FISH. Our results establish the first universal and specific CTC marker described for enumerating CTCs from different types of sarcoma, thereby providing a key prognosis tool to monitor cancer metastasis and relapse.
Targeted imaging of (v)(3) expressing sarcoma tumor cells in vivo in pre-operative setting using near infrared: a potential tool to reduce incomplete surgical resection.	Tumor size and location along with efficacy of pre-operative imaging are limiting factors for optimal surgical excision for osteosarcoma. Our general hypothesis is that targeting v3 integrin-rich osteosarcoma neoangiogenesis should provide improved delivery of diagnostic compounds and assist surgeons intra operatively using near-infrared imaging techniques. We evaluated in an orthotopic metastatic osteosarcoma in rats the potential of AngioStamp targeting v3 integrins and detected intra operatively by near infrared (NIR) illumination (Fluobeam) as a novel, intra operative imaging technique. To determine the potential of this association in improving tumor and metastasis detection, we compared the quality and sensitivity of tumor/metastasis margin delineation and tumor resection using intra-operative NIR imaging to the ones guided by pre-operative imaging (i.e., MRI subsequently confirmed by histopathological analysis). Chemotherapy being essential in osteosarcoma treatment, we evaluated the capacity of AngioStamp to specifically localize to the tumor after chemotherapy treatment. We showed a significantly lesser extent of healthy tissue resection after surgical excision when assessing tumor margin intra operatively using AngioStamp/Fluobeam association compared to pre-operative MRI post-operatively confirmed by histopathological analysis (p<0.01). Importantly, intra-operative NIR illumination of lungs revealed more metastases than were detected by CT Scan or under intra-operative white light examination (p<0.01). Importantly, chemotherapy did not alter AngioStamp tumor specific targeting nor the sensitivity of tumor detection. Our preclinical data confirm the potential of intra-operative imaging for improved primary tumor and lung metastasis excision. Based on these promising results, we now propose to evaluate this approach as a mean to improve surgical excision while maintaining tumor control in other sarcoma or tumors overexpressing v3 integrins. 
Prognostic value of 18F-FDG PET/CT in patients with soft tissue sarcoma: comparisons between metabolic parameters.	To investigate the relationship between volume-based PET parameters and prognosis in patients with soft tissue sarcoma (STS).
Imaging characteristics of spindle cell lipoma and its variants.	A spindle cell lipoma (SCL) is a relatively common tumor that can be challenging to the radiologist, pathologist, or surgeon to diagnose, particularly when internal fat content is scant or absent. Although these lesions may be found at various locations, the typical presentation for this lesion is a well-circumscribed and non-aggressive subcutaneous mass in the posterior neck presenting in a middle-aged to elderly man. In this article, the typical and atypical imaging characteristics of a spindle cell lipoma (SCL) will be reviewed. Knowledge of the common imaging and pathologic features of SCLs can help suggest the diagnosis and guide patient management. 
Abdominal and pelvic tumors with musculoskeletal histology.	This article is a case-based review of the broad spectrum of tumors with musculoskeletal histology that can arise in the abdomen or pelvis and involve the soft tissues, muscle, and bone. In this article, pathology-proven cases are presented with a focus on radiographic, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and positron emission tomography-computed tomography findings. The imaging features that differentiate tumors with musculoskeletal histology from more common abdominal tumors are discussed. Representative cases include malignant fibrous histiocytoma, chondrosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma, hemangiopericytoma, desmoplastic fibroma, neurofibrosarcoma, osteosarcoma, intimal sarcoma, liposarcoma, leiomyosarcoma, synovial sarcoma, teratoma, and chordoma. A variety of tumors with musculoskeletal histology can arise in the abdomen and pelvis. In some cases, unique imaging characteristics allow a confident diagnosis, whereas other cases have a more nonspecific appearance. Recognition of imaging features that suggest a musculoskeletal tumor including direct extension from a bone or neural foramen, the presence of cartilaginous or osseous matrix, or macroscopic fat would allow the radiologist to suggest the proper diagnosis. Recognizing imaging characteristics of tumors with musculoskeletal histology is important clinically as management and prognosis differ from that of more common abdominal tumors. 
Radiation-induced malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the occipital: a case report.	Malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) is a rare neoplasm exhibiting a propensity for aggressive clinical behavior. Effective treatment modality is surgical resection with wide margins, but its rate of recurrence and metastasis is still high. Early detection and complete excision of the tumor is necessary. A MFH of the occipital developed in a 51-year-old woman eight years after surgery and radiation for medulloblastoma of the cerebellar vermis. The secondary neoplasm arose at the site of tumor resection within the irradiated field, and was resected. The development of sarcomas is a recognized complication of radiation therapy. The final diagnosis after the operation was MFH. Radiation-induced sarcoma (RIS) is well known, but radiation-induced MFH is relatively rare in the head and neck region, especially in the occipital. The imaging findings are not diagnosis specific, but strict follow-up within the radiation field by computerized tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and appreciation of the expected latency period may help in providing the diagnosis of RIS. 
Anaplastic and sarcomatoid carcinoma of the small intestine: a clinicopathologic study.	Carcinomas involving the jejunum and ileum are rare tumors. During a review of small intestinal neoplasms, six primary carcinomas of jejunum or ileum with an anaplastic and sarcomatoid histology were identified. At presentation, three of the patients had symptoms related to metastatic disease and three had symptoms referable to the local tumor. The tumors were large (greater than 4.5 cm in diameter), usually endophytic masses composed of large cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm, anaplastic nuclei, and prominent nucleoli. In many areas, the cells had a spindled configuration. Mucin positivity was identified in all six cases. Electron microscopic findings in two cases were indicative of epithelial differentiation. The tumors behaved aggressively; all five patients for whom there was clinical follow-up died of metastases within 40 months. The six anaplastic and sarcomatoid carcinomas were compared with 29 typical adenocarcinomas arising in the jejunum or ileum. Only two of the latter group had symptoms referable to distant metastases at presentation. These tumors also tended to be smaller at presentation (11 tumors were less than 4 cm in greatest dimension). Of 25 patients with typical adenocarcinomas who had acceptable follow-up, 18 (72%) died of disease and five (20%) were alive with no evidence of disease after 5 years. We conclude that anaplastic and sarcomatoid carcinoma is a rare variant of small intestinal carcinoma with an aggressive clinical course.
Diagnosis of epithelioid sarcoma]	Epithelioid sarcoma is a rare soft tissue tumour. Small-nodular structure, necrotic foci in the centre of tumour nodes, moderate lymphocytic infiltration are characteristic histologic features of this tumour. Majority of tumour cells have the appearance of epithelioid histiocytes. Some tumour cells are found in small cavities resembling hyalin cartilage lacunes. Signs of a synovial, fibroblastic and histiocytic differentiation are observed ultrastructurally in the epithelioid sarcoma cells On the basis of the literature analysis and their own ultrastructural data the authors conclude that there should be a relation of this tumor with pluripotential stem cells of mesenchyma surrounding distal part of the chondral bone germ.
A light microscopic and ultrastructural study of spindle-shaped hepatocellular carcinoma.	Spindle-cell hepatocellular carcinoma is an unusual morphologic variant of hepatocellular carcinoma with a typical sarcomatous appearance. The exact diagnosis of this tumor may be difficult when only small biopsies are available and in the absence of ultrastructural studies. We describe two cases of hepatocellular carcinoma: one was entirely composed of spindle-shaped cells, and the other was a typical hepatocellular carcinoma with only a small area of sarcomatous, fusiform cells. In the first case, ultrastructural studies demonstrated desmosomes and many Mallory bodies and confirmed the epithelial nature of the neoplasm. In the second case, no ultrastructural studies were available, but the presence of gradual transition from liver cell carcinoma to spindle-cell carcinoma excluded the diagnosis of carcino-sarcoma.
The clinical features and natural history of malignant liver tumours.	As a broad generalization, there appears to be little intrinsic difference in the biological behaviour of the common malignant liver tumours in respect of presentation, clinical course, clinical features and prognosis. Whatever the tumour's origin, patients present with some combination of abdominal pain, hepatomegaly, weight-loss and general malaise and death occurs within 3 years of the onset of symptoms. It is the state of the non-tumorous liver (cirrhotic/non-cirrhotic) and the anatomical site of the tumour (as with hilar cholangiocarcinomas) that are responsible for any significant differences. Metastatic carcinoid tumours, epithelioid haemangioendotheliomas, stage IV-S neuroblastomas and the fibrolamellar variant of HCC are exceptions to this rule with a genuinely better prognosis.
An unusual pleomorphic sarcoma in a hybrid mallard.	An unusual pleomorphic sarcoma from a hybrid mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) is described. Rhabdomyosarcoma was considered in the original differential diagnoses but rejected due to lack of specific characteristics generally seen in these tumors. The histologic characteristics described are consistent with mammalian sarcomas recorded in the literature as malignant fibrous histiocytoma.
Electron microscopy of histologically difficult to diagnose gynecologic neoplasms.	The ultrastructural characteristics useful in identifying a selected series of histologically difficult to diagnose malignant neoplasms of the human gynecological sphere are presented. The results are discussed in relation to routine diagnosis and when appropriate, to their pathogenic origin.
Sonography of popliteal masses.	Sonography of the popliteal space was performed in 28 patients with a history of a popliteal mass, verified by physical examination in all but 7 patients. The final diagnosis was established by needle biopsy or surgery. Three main types of lesions were found sonographically. A thin-walled echo-free cyst was present in 16 patients. The diagnosis in all of these cases was Baker's cyst. Two patients had a mixed cystic and solid lesion, which was found to be a Baker's cyst, with a loose body in 1 case and a soft-tissue sarcoma with hematoma in the other. Three patients showed solid lesions subsequently diagnosed as an old rupture of the semimembranosus muscle, lipoma, and soft tissue sarcoma. Sonography was normal in the 7 patients without clinical evidence of a popliteal mass. Sonography of popliteal masses is useful to distinguish benign cysts from other lesions.
Focal myositis and its differential diagnosis. A case report and review of the literature.	A 55 year-old woman underwent a wide surgical excision because a left thigh mass. The histopathological study showed a focal myositis of the vastus lateralis muscle. The patient remains asymptomatic after four years follow-up. The differential diagnosis with soft tissue sarcomas and other inflammatory myopathies is discussed.
Imaging of sarcomas of soft tissue]	Modern imaging of soft tissue sarcomas now includes ultrasounds, CT and MRI. These new techniques allow a better evaluation of initial local extension, of the response to treatment and are able to detect local recurrences early.
Epithelioid sarcoma. An analysis of fifty-one cases.	Analysis of the cases of fifty-one consecutive patients who had an epithelioid sarcoma revealed the five-year rate of survival to be approximately 70 per cent and the ten-year rate, approximately 50 per cent. The five-year rate of survival was about 40 per cent for the male patients and about 80 per cent for the female patients. If the primary tumor was more than three centimeters in diameter or was deeply situated, the patients had a reduced life-span, as did the patients in whom the tumor was focally necrotic. More male than female patients had necrosis of the tumor, as seen on the pathological specimens. No significant difference in life-span was noted among the patients in whom the resection had a marginal, wide, or radical surgical margin. The data indicate that wide or radical resection should be done as soon as epithelioid sarcoma is diagnosed.
Imaging of bone sarcomas]	Radiological study of bone sarcomas has been improved for the last ten years. Standard X-ray analysis is now more precise. CT and MRI are presently playing an important role for pretreatment local evaluation, assessment of treatment effectiveness and detection of recurrences.
B lymphocyte antigens in the differential diagnosis of human neoplasia.	Human B lymphocyte antigens (HBLA) were detected with fluorescent-labeled antibodies on malignant cells of 102 patients with Hodgkin disease and other lymphomas, plasma cell myeloma, and nonlymphoreticular neoplasms including carcinomas of the breast, lung, and ovary, soft tissue sarcomas, and neuroblastoma. HBLA were present in Hodgkin disease and other lymphomas of B cell or histiocyte derivation. They were absent in plasma cell myeloma and nonlymphoreticular neoplasms. Absorption studies revealed that malignant T cells had smaller amounts of HBLA, usually not detected by immunofluorescence. Expression of HBLA was dependent on both cell differentiation and origin. Detection of HBLA enabled immunologic distinction of Reed-Sternberg and other lymphoma cells from morphologically similar cells of nonlymphoreticular origin. The rapidity, reproducibility, and economy of the immunofluorescence test make this a useful clinical tool for the differential diagnosis of lymphoma from other malignant disorders in man.
Dermal monocytic sarcoma/monoblastic tumour: report of two cases of acute monocytic leukemia with initial dermal manifestations only.	The clinical and pathological findings in 2 patients with acute monocytic leukemia (AMOL) presenting initially as multiple monoblastic tumours of the skin (monocytic sarcoma) were reviewed. The skin biopsies were originally interpreted as malignant lymphoma and the diagnosis of AMOL was established when overt bone marrow and/or peripheral blood involvement was detected. The time interval from initial skin biopsy to either blood or bone marrow involvement by AMOL was 2 and 18 mth. After diagnosis of extracutaneous dissemination, survival was less than 1 mth. Cytochemistry, immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy can aid in the diagnosis of a monocytic sarcoma. Generally, the most practical way to confirm the diagnosis, in everyday practice, on fixed paraffin-embedded tissues is the demonstration of alpha-1-antitrypsin (A1AT) and/or lysozyme by the immunoperoxidase technique.
Multipotent primary bone sarcoma]	The results of clinical and roentgen-morphological studies on 17 cases of multipotent primary sarcoma of the bone are presented. The difficulties of the tumor recognition are due to the fact that it occurs rarely, has no specific clinical-roentgenological picture and shows marked tissue polymorphism. Most frequent are differentiations of the type of osteogenic sarcoma, chondrosarcoma, reticulosarcoma with simultaneous combination with areas having the structure of Ewing's tumor, or extensive fields of undifferentiated primitive tumor cells. Further studies are necessary to decide whether or not this tumor is an independent form among other known skeletal neoplasias.
Application of magnetic resonance imaging and computerized tomography as an adjunct to the surgical management of soft tissue sarcomas.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) scans of 53 evaluable patients with biopsy-proven soft tissue sarcomas were reviewed and compared with operative results to ascertain the accuracy for each imaging modality to predict resectability. Location of soft part sarcomas included: abdomino-pelvic (3), retroperitoneal (7), extremity (35), and other anatomic sites (8). MRI was observed to have greater accuracy than CT to preoperatively predict resectability (96.2% vs. 75.5%, respectively, p = 0.0034) following three-dimensional, multiplanar evaluation. Further, MRI was judged to have superior sensitivity to CT (95.6% vs. 73.3%, respectively, p = 0.006) and equivalent specificity (100% vs. 87.5%, respectively, p = 0.125). MRI represents a sophisticated diagnostic imaging technique to differentiate normal tissue from soft tissue sarcomas with superior contrast resolution in multiplanar imaging. MRI is considered to be the imaging modality of choice for these tumors with the advantage of not exposing the patient to ionizing irradiation or intravenous contrast agents to delineate contiguous structures.
Maximizing signal-to-noise and contrast-to-noise ratios in FLASH imaging.	This paper presents an analysis of signal-to-noise and contrast-to-noise ratios from small tip angle, gradient reversal (FLASH) imaging. Analytic and numerical techniques are used to determine the delay times and tip angles that maximize signal-to-noise per unit time from a single tissue. Similar procedures are used to determine the delay times and tip angles that maximize both T1-induced and T-2*-induced contrast-to-noise per unit time for a pair of tissues as a function of tissue characteristics and pulse sequence sampling times. The advantage of optimized FLASH imaging over optimized spin-echo imaging is quantitated by comparing signal-to-noise and contrast-to-noise ratios per unit time from the two sequences. Images are used to confirm these numerical results, to compare noise levels resulting from gradient reversals versus 180 degrees rephasing pulses and to assess the possible adverse effects of static magnetic field inhomogeneities on FLASH imaging.
Pain as a presenting symptom in children and young adults with newly diagnosed malignancy.	The incidence and nature of pain in 92 children and young adults presenting with newly diagnosed malignancy at the Pediatric Branch of the National Cancer Institute over a 26 month period were assessed. At the time of their initial evaluation, 72 of the total 92 patients were experiencing pain that had been present for a median of 74 days (range 3-821 days) prior to initiation of cancer treatment. In 57 patients, pain had been an initial symptom of cancer; 42 patients had experienced sleep disturbance due to pain. Following the institution of cancer therapy, pain persisted for a median of 10 days. One patient died of malignancy after 5 months without resolution of her pain, and only 4 had persistent pain for greater than 9 months after the start of treatment. Persistent pain is an important symptom of cancer in children and young adults and is often present for long periods before the diagnosis of malignancy is made. Cancer in children usually responds rapidly to modern therapy, and pain usually persists only briefly after the initiation of treatment.
Nasomaxillary fibrosarcomas in three young horses.	Nasomaxillary fibrosarcoma was diagnosed in 3 young horses. Clinical signs included epiphora, facial swelling, dyspnea, unilateral serosanguineous nasal discharge, or an external mass. Physical examination, radiography, and cytology were important diagnostic adjuncts. The definitive diagnosis in each case was based on biopsy. In one case, surgical removal of the tumor and extensive curettage of the affected sinus resulted in extended remission from neoplastic disease.
Misdiagnosed localized arteriovenous malformation.	We report a case of an 11-year-old girl with a pulsatile mass in the thigh diagnosed by angiography as localized arteriovenous malformation. Recent increase in tenderness and size of the lesion brought the patient to hospital and excision was performed at the parents' request. Subsequent histologic examination revealed that this lesion was an alveolar soft-part sarcoma in disguise. The angiographic and pathologic results are presented. Other investigators should be aware of this uncommon and highly vascular sarcoma, which might be misdiagnosed as a localized arteriovenous malformation and thus treated only conservatively.
Primary retroperitoneal tumours, in the material of our department.	After giving a brief survey of the literature, the authors discuss the symptomatology, diagnostics and management of retroperitoneal tumours. Four of their own cases treated between 1979 and 1985 summarized in tables are presented. All of them were operated and three of them received irradiation therapy. The fate of the first patient is unknown. The second patient survived for 24 months following the first operation, with additional three operations and irradiation on two occasions for recurrence of tumour. The third patient survived for 5 months. In the fourth, it could be revealed by ultrasound and angiography that the retroperitoneal tumour was independent of the kidney. Thus, the intact left kidney was preserved during operation. The patient died three months postoperatively at the department of pulmonology. The histological finding of the tumours of all patients was a malignant tumour of mesenchymal origin, a type of sarcoma. Based on their experiences, the authors stress the importance of the early recognition and removal of the tumour, since the patients have a poor chance of surviving these extremely malignant sarcomas in spite of the surgical and irradiation therapies.
Primary pulmonary artery sarcoma: intra-operative similarity to pulmonary embolus.	An infarcted right lower lobe, thought to be due to a thrombotic pulmonary embolus, was resected in a 48 year old man. Subsequent examination of the lobe unexpectedly showed the infarction to be secondary to a primary sarcoma of the pulmonary artery.
Adult head and neck soft-tissue sarcomas.	Adult soft tissue sarcomas of the head and neck are so rare that an accurate diagnosis and appropriate therapy are frequently delayed. A retrospective study of such patients seen at the University of Illinois over the last 15 years has helped to better characterize this disease entity. Patients with sarcoma of the neck, the most common anatomic location (37 per cent), had the highest 5-year disease-free survival rate (67 per cent). Fibrosarcoma was the most common histologic type (25 per cent). Aggressive fibromatosis patients experienced the longest mean survival time (93 months). The disease-free 2-year, 5-year, and 10-year survival rates were found to be 68, 54, and 28 per cent, respectively. Wide excision was the treatment of choice, with adjuvant radiotherapy or chemotherapy, or both, used in selected patients. The sarcomas of all long-term survivors were either well-differentiated or 5.0 cm or less in diameter. It is evident that aggressive therapy of adult head and neck sarcomas can provide good long-term results.
Value of Tru-cut biopsy in the diagnosis of soft tissue tumours.	The light microscopic appearances of Tru-cut needle biopsies from 50 consecutive soft tissue tumours were assessed by three pathologists and compared with the definitive histological diagnosis. Forty-four patients had soft tissue sarcomas and six had benign soft tissue lesions. A correct predictive diagnosis of sarcoma was made on 87-98 per cent of adequate Tru-cut specimens, the accuracy varying between pathologists. Three sources of diagnostic error were recognized: false positive cores (8 per cent), false negative cores (8 per cent), and cores inadequate for diagnosis (16 per cent). The major source of confusion related to difficulties in differentiating infiltrating fibromatosis from malignant fibrous histiocytoma. The high sensitivity of Tru-cut needle biopsy suggests that it could be a valuable aid in the diagnosis of clinically suspected soft tissue sarcomas.
The computed tomography of the malignant thoracic space-occupying process under special consideration of radiotherapeutic points of view (author's transl)]	The data of 70 patients with a malignant thoracic space-occupying process were compared in order to find out the differences between computed tomography and conventional X-ray diagnosis (thorax radiography, hilum tomography), the radiotherapeutic aspects of these methods being taken under special consideration. Computed tomography is excellently suited for the establishment of therapeutic schemes because it is the only technique producing individual cross-sectional views of the thorax which are in correct scale and have a high resolving power. Contrary to thorax radiography and hilum shadow, the computed tomography offers some additional diagnostic information in several special fields.
The solitary thyroid nodule: diagnosis and management of malignant disease.	While few solitary thyroid nodules are carcinomatous, it is essential to identify and preferentially select those that are for surgery. Clinical, biochemical, serologic, radiographic, scintigraphic, sonographic, biopsy, and even therapeutic evaluation may be necessary to choose those patients with the greatest probability of malignancy. The benefits and limitations of each diagnostic modality are discussed, and the importance of fine-needle aspiration is stressed. After the operative confirmation of malignancy, the prognosis in any given case depends on 1) the histologic type of the neoplasm, 2) its size and extent, 3) the presence of angioinvasiveness, 4) the tendency toward multicentricity of the lesion, 5) the age and sex of the patient, and 6) whether distant metastases are present. These factors influence the extent of surgery required for well-differentiated carcinomas. Meticulous dissection and preservation of the recurrent laryngeal nerves and the parathyroid glands along with their blood supply are important if total thyroidectomy for papillary carcinoma is to be employed with an acceptable operative morbidity to optimize survival. The value of the adjunctive use of thyroid hormone and radioactive iodine is also discussed. Finally, the clinical behaviors and treatments of undifferentiated carcinomas, sarcomas, lymphomas, and neoplasms metastatic to the thyroid gland are reviewed.
Value of cerebrospinal fluid cytology for the diagnosis of malignancies in the central nervous system.	The authors present a retrospective analysis of the results of the cytological examinations of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples and tumor-cyst aspirates deriving from 262 patients treated for malignant intracranial primary and secondary tumors, and vertebral and peridural metastastic processes. Positive preoperative CSF samples were found in 15.3% of all cases of primary cerebral malignancies (13.9% of all gliomas) and positive postoperative CSF samples were found in 40% (91% of the medulloblastoma cases). In all cases of single or multiple secondary cerebral tumors, positive preoperative CSF samples were found in 20%.
Extrinsic compression of the heart by tumor masquerading as cardiac tamponade.	A patient with known intrathoracic tumor presented with findings suggestive of cardiac tamponade. At cardiac catheterization, the entire heart was displaced superiorly and anteriorly by the tumor mass, and this accounted for the observed cardiac hemodynamics, in the absence of discernible pericardial effusion.
Role of teletermography in the diagnosis of primary tumors of soft tissues and bones]	The thermographic behaviour of bone and soft tissue tumors (168 malignant), submitted to this examination from 1971 to 1981, has been retrospectively analyzed and statistically evaluated. In the group of malignant neoplasms, thermography reached a good sensitivity (81.5%), a little better (but not significantly) in soft tissue tumors. Mainly three pathological features have been analyzed: histological type, size and site of neoplastic masses. None of them appears to be related with the result of thermographic examination. The authors emphasize (also from a possible prognostic point of view) the peculiar behaviour of Ewing's sarcoma, whose tendency to uniform distribution through the different thermographic classes cannot be currently explained.
Pseudotumor after metal fixation of a fracture surgery. A case report.	The present report describes an unusual complication after surgical treatment of a femoral fracture. Metal particles, produced by mechanical damage to an intramedullary rod by the insertion of screws perpendicular to the rod, were found to have initiated a tumor-like change in the soft tissues 4 years after removal of the metal implants. Conventional X-ray, angiography and CT-scan showed adjacent to the healed fracture a large tumor mass, which was interpreted as a soft tissue sarcoma. However, histopathological assessment revealed extensive necrotic changes around scattered metal particles in the biceps femoris muscle, which may be assumed to have been induced either chemically or bacterially.
Size, site and clinical incidence of lipoma. Factors in the differential diagnosis of lipoma and sarcoma.	All 428 patients who had a non-visceral lipoma histopathologically diagnosed during 1 year in a defined population (0.74 million inhabitants) were analysed retrospectively as regards the age, duration of symptoms, size, site (location and depth) and multiplicity of the lipomas. Solitary subcutaneous lipomas were uncommon in the hand, thigh, lower leg and foot, and four-fifths of them (264/338) were smaller than 5 cm. Multiple subcutaneous lipomas were found in 61 patients, most of them young males. Subfascial lipomas, with a mean size (6 cm) double that of solitary subcutaneous lipomas, were found in 13 patients. A subgroup of 192 lipomas (153 patients) was reexamined histologically and the tumours were classified as either simple lipoma or angiolipoma. Angiolipomas were significantly more common in patients with multiple lipomas. To assess the reliability of a clinical diagnosis of lipoma as well as the proportion of clinically diagnosed lipomas not verified by histology, the records of patients seen in one department of surgery and in one health care centre were examined. Based on these data, the annual clinical incidence of lipoma (number of patients consulting a doctor for a lipoma, even if not histologically verified) was estimated to be 1/1000. When the data for solitary lipomas were compared to those for soft-tissue sarcoma, it was found that patient age and duration of symptoms were of minor value in the clinical differential diagnosis. However, if a tumour were (a) larger than 5 cm, irrespective of depth and location, (b) located in the thigh, irrespective of depth and size, or (c) deep, irrespective of location and size, it was more likely to be a sarcoma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Epithelioid sarcoma in FNAB smears.	FNAB smears of eleven epithelioid sarcomas were reviewed and analysed. Ten cases had a very similar cytomorphologic picture composed predominantly of dissociated epithelioid-like cells with eccentrically placed nuclei. These tumors were clearly malignant but difficult to differentiate morphologically from melanoma, epithelioid leiomiosarcoma, and Schwannoma or adenocarcinoma. One case was composed of spindle cells and was reminiscent of a fibrohistiocytic tumor. Immunocytochemical reactions to vimentin and cytokeratin were performed in six cases on the Papanicolaou stained smears. The reactions to both antigens were positive in all six cases. Ultrastructural characteristics of eight of the tumors are also described. It seems that epithelioid sarcoma has a rather distinct cytomorphologic picture. Taking into consideration clinical data and using also immunocytochemistry, a definitive diagnosis of epithelioid sarcoma can probably be given from FNAB smears.
Differential diagnosis between infection and neoplasm of the infratemporal fossa]	Because there are many similarities in infection and neoplasm of the infratemporal fossa (ITF), it is difficult to differentiate between these two diseases. By analysing 28 cases of the ITF lesions (8 cases of infection, 20 cases of neoplasm) the authors find the following points are important to differentiate between infection and neoplasm of the ITF. 1. The patients suffering from ITF infection almost all have odynophagia, while the patients suffering from the ITF neoplasm have no such symptom. The latter presents numbness in branches of the fifth nerve, while the former scarcely exhibits this symptom. 2. In the ITF neoplasm the mass could be found by CT or MRI, while in the ITF cellulitis no mass could be found. Although CT or MRI could find the mass in the ITF abscess, at the same time CT definitely could find some imaging signs which signify infection such as abscess formation (lucency) and gas bubbles. CT could find adjacent bone destruction in most ITF neoplasms, while this is rare in (ITF) infection. MRI is very helpful in differentiating between these two.
Primary retroperitoneal tumor--an analysis of 303 cases]	Primary retroperitoneal tumor (PRT) is of a heterogeneous group of neoplasms of mesenchymal origin. From April 1964 through April 1992, 303 PRT cases were treated. Of the 288 cases with histological confirmation, 197 suffered from malignant tumors and 91 were benign. Since the PRT patients were usually symptomless, diagnosis was made late in the majority of patients. It resulted in low radical resection rate in both the malignant (36.9%) and the benign (84.6%) PRT owing to invasion to adjacent organs. The tumor recurrence rate was also high, being 74.2% for the malignant and 11.7% for the benign tumors. The overall 2-, 5-, and 10-year survival rates in the patients with malignant tumors were 55.3%, 19.5%, and 9.8%, respectively. The results of treatment were dependent primarily on completeness of tumor resection. Adjuvant radiotherapy could improve the survival rates but adjuvant chemotherapy did not help. In patients with tumor recurrence, operation remained to be the treatment of choice. If complete resection was impossible, the alternative was debulking operation followed by radiotherapy.
Tumors of the mesentery. Apropos of 102 cases]	One hundred and two mesenteric tumours or masses are reported, and their histologic, clinical and therapeutic aspects are described: 28 cystic tumours, 38 mesenchymatous and 3 neurogenic tumours, 27 miscellaneous tumours, including 17 lymphomas, 2 hematomas and lymphoid or inflammatory masses. Seventy-four patients presented with an abdominal mass, 41 with pain and 28 with acute abdominal syndrome, including 16 with intestinal obstruction. Ultrasonography and computerised tomography were performed in 31 patients, RMI in 8 patients: these investigations are useful in establishing the diagnosis but surgical exploration and biopsies remain necessary for the pathology. One hundred and one patients required operation: 45 biopsies with 5 by-passes, and 56 resections, 32 localized tumour resections and 24 extended to the small bowel. Radiotherapy and chemotherapy have little or no effect.
Correlation of the findings of thallium-201 chloride scans with those of other imaging modalities and histology following therapy in patients with bone and soft tissue sarcomas.	We performed a retrospective [corrected] study to evaluate the imaging potential of thallium-201 as compared with other imaging modalities in differentiating residual/recurrent tumors from post-therapy changes in patients with musculoskeletal sarcomas. 201Tl scans, magnetic resonance imaging (17), X-ray computed tomography (6) or contrast angiography (6) studies in 29 patients previously treated for musculoskeletal sarcomas were correlated with either histopathologic findings (26 patients) or 2-year clinical follow-up (three patients). All imaging studies were acquired within 2 weeks. Ratios of 201Tl tumor uptake to the contralateral (28 patients) or adjacent region of interest were calculated. When qualitative interpretation was in doubt, only those cases with a ratio of 1.5 or more were considered suggestive of recurrent of residual viable tumor tissue. Residual or recurrent tumor tissue was verified in 21 patients by biopsy. All had true-positive 201Tl scans while the other imaging modalities were true-positive in 20 and equivocal in one. In eight patients, there was no evidence of viable tumor tissue as proven by biopsy in five and long-term clinical follow-up in three. 201Tl scan was false-positive (ratio 1.5) in one patient and true-negative in seven while the other imaging modalities had four false-positives. The average 201Tl ratios were 2.8+/-1.1 in the true-positive cases and 1.3+/-0.3 in the true-negative cases. The percentage sensitivities, specificities, and accuracy for 201Tl were 100%, 87.5%, and 96.5% versus 95%, 50%, and 82.7% respectively for other imaging modalities. These results indicate that 201Tl scintigraphy is more accurate than other imaging modalities in differentiating residual/recurrent musculoskeletal sarcomas from post-therapy changes.
Lumps, bumps and soft tissue sarcomas.	A case of soft tissue sarcoma in a young person is described. Accident and emergency workers should be aware of this highly malignant group of tumours. Lumps in young people should not necessarily be assumed to be benign without a definite histological diagnosis.
Malignant soft tissue sarcoma of the hypopharynx successfully treated by radiotherapy alone.	Sarcoma of the hypopharynx has been reported very rarely in the literature, only six cases having been found among all head and neck malignancies reported to SEER (Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results) during 1973-1987. We report a 14-year-old boy with a huge malignant soft tissue sarcoma arising from the hypopharynx. Tracheostomy and feeding gastrostomy were performed as emergency life-saving procedures. Surgical resection had been attempted, but abandoned. Because of the rapidity of tumor growth, we gave the patient a course of accelerated radiotherapy (170 cGy/fraction, two fractions per day) with a total dose of 7140 cGy within one month. A series of endoscopy and imaging studies demonstrated complete regression of the tumor, and the patient is currently alive without evidence of disease 3.5 years after treatment. We conclude that for an unresectable tumor without distant metastasis, radiation therapy may be tried. The time, dose, and fractionation of radiotherapy should be carefully designed and individualized.
Clinical picture and diagnosis of leptomeningeal sarcomatosis]	The study is based on the analysis of 10 cases of sarcomatosis of the brain and spinal pia mater. A progressive development of the disease, cachaxia, the existence of focal symptoms, radicle pain, xantochromia in the CSF, protein-cell dissociation and some other signs are characteristic of primary sarcomatosis of the pia mater. On the basis of clinical symptoms and CSF changes it is possible vitaly to perform a differential diagnosis with chronic infectious diseases and especially with tubercular meningitis and polyradiculomyelitis. Pathomorphological studies revealed tissue infiltration of the surrounding intracerebral vessels by tumors cells without proliferation into the dura mater and radicles of the spinal cord.
Encapsulated follicular thyroid carcinoma exhibiting glandular and spindle cell components. A case report.	We describe an unusual case of a thyroid carcinoma exhibiting glandular and sarcomatous features. The tumor occurred in a 16-year-old girl. Histologic study of the resected thyroid gland revealed an encapsulated tumor composed predominantly of glandular structures and some solid areas. In the glandular areas, the tumor cells showed a cribriform growth pattern, and neither colloid secretion into the lumen nor clear-cut cytologic features suggestive of papillary or follicular thyroid carcinoma were observed. In the solid areas, tumor cells became spindled and showed a sarcomatous arrangement with occasional whorl formation. A transition from the glandular areas to the solid ones was observed. Immunohistochemical study revealed that tumor cells were positive focally for epithelial membrane antigen, cytokeratin and secretory component. Thyroglobulin was positive only in a few and limited areas of the glandular component. Calcitonin was negative throughout the tumor. The histologic and immunohistochemical evidence indicates that this tumor is of thyroid origin and is probably derived from thyroid follicular cells. The histology of this tumor is unique, so we report this case briefly.
Sarcoma of the uterus]	Our experience with the treatment of uterine sarcoma is presented as a retrospective clinical study. The studied group is represented by 39 patients with the average age 58 years and an overall 5 year survival 36%. We recommend the abdominal hysterectomy with or without bilateral salpingooophorectomy as primary therapy. The importance of adjuvant radiotherapy and chemotherapy is discussed with a special attention to various histological types of sarcoma.
Intraarticular epithelioid sarcoma.	A case of an intraarticular epithelioid sarcoma is presented. The patient was a 35 year old man who presented with a 10 months history of a chronic monoarthritis. The MRI showed a diffuse lesion involving the synovial membrane of the knee. There was a marked increased signal on T2 weighted images. Most epithelioid sarcomas involve the subcutaneous tissues of the hands or feet. This presentation is unusual and this entity should be considered in the differential diagnosis of an intraarticular proliferative process.
Follicular dendritic cell sarcoma and interdigitating reticulum cell sarcoma: a review.	Neoplasms of reticular dendritic origin are extremely rare and include the follicular dendritic cell sarcoma (FDCS) and the interdigitating reticulum (or dendritic) cell sarcoma (IDCS). In this article, we review the literature pertaining to the two diseases and describe clinical observations and salient pathologic features, including information provided by authors of FDCS and IDDCS reports. We performed a computerized database search for published articles regarding FDCS and IDDCS. The articles were evaluated critically by the authors. Simple descriptive statistics were used to analyze the data. There are 51 cases of FDCS and 21 cases of IDDCS that are well documented in the literature. The pathologic diagnosis of FDCS and IDDCS is often challenging and requires morphologic, immunophenotypic, cytochemical, and electron-microscopic analysis. Patients with FDCS usually present with cervical or axillary lymphadenopathy, but extranodal disease has been described. In at least some patients, preexisting Castleman's disease has been recognized. Resected localized disease may be prevented from recurrence by consolidative radiotherapy. Chemotherapy regimens have shown nondurable antitumor activity in FDCS. Patients with IDDCS usually present with lymphadenopathy. The clinical course of IDDCS has been variable, but it seems to be more aggressive than that of FDCS. Variable degrees of remission may be achieved with chemotherapy. FDCS and IDDCS are rare neoplasms that may pose difficulty in pathologic diagnosis. IDDCS seems to display a more aggressive behavior than FDCS. Patients with IDDCS and FDCS can eventually die of disease progression. The role of chemotherapy and radiotherapy is not clearly defined.
Dendritic fibromyxolipoma: clinicopathologic study of a distinctive benign soft tissue lesion that may be mistaken for a sarcoma.	Twelve cases are described of a distinctive benign soft tissue lesion that may be mistaken for a sarcoma. The tumors occurred in 11 men and a woman aged 33 to 81 years (mean, 64 years), and measured from 2 to 11 cm in greatest diameter (mean, 6 cm). They were grossly described as soft, well-circumscribed, yellow-gray, with a mucoid cut surface. All cases were superficially located in the subcutis or muscular fascia of the head and neck region or the chest and back. Histologically, the tumors were characterized by a proliferation of spindle or stellate fibroblastic cells variably admixed with mature adipose tissue embedded in an abundant myxoid and collagenized stroma. The spindle and stellate fibroblastic cells were characterized by slender dendritic prolongations of their cytoplasm, which appeared to extend for short distances along connective tissue planes. Electron microscopy in two cases confirmed the dendritic nature of the fibroblastic cells, which showed elongated cytoplasmic processes lacking external lamina and displaying foci of pinocytotic activity. Immunohistochemical studies in 11 cases showed strong positivity of the spindle cells with vimentin, CD34 and bcl-2, and negative staining for smooth muscle actin, muscle-specific actin (HHF35), desmin, S-100 protein, keratin, and EMA. Because of their prominent myxoid stroma and relatively large size, some of these tumors were initially misinterpreted as low-grade sarcomas. Clinical follow-up in five cases, however, showed that the patients were alive and well without evidence of recurrence between 5 and 13 years (mean follow-up, 8 years) after simple local excision. The present cases appear to represent a distinctive form of benign soft tissue neoplasm that should be distinguished from myxoid liposarcoma and other benign and malignant myxoid tumors of superficial soft tissues.
Pseudoanaplastic chondromyxoid fibroma.	A 19-year-old man presented with a chondromyxoid fibroma of the distal phalanx of the great toe that was originally diagnosed as osteosarcoma rather than "dedifferentiated" chondrosarcoma. Radiographs showed a large, expansive, and calcified tumor of the distal phalanx. Although the tumor had the architectural and matrix patterns of a chondromyxoid fibroma, high-power examination demonstrated that the lesion had such severe nuclear pleomorphism that it was mistaken for high-grade sarcoma. The purpose of this report is to present the criteria used to differentiate a benign pseudoanaplastic chondromyxoid fibroma from chondrogenic high-grade sarcomas.
Sarcomatoid renal carcinoma]	Sarcomatoid carcinoma of the kidney is a unique, uncommon variety of parenchymatous tumors and is considered to have a worse prognosis by stage than the other histological types. Our experience is reviewed and compared with the larger series reported in the literature.
Cytology: screening or diagnostic tool?	Previously used only as a screening tool, cytology now emerges as a powerful diagnostic technique, especially since the advent of the fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy. This article highlights the use of ancillary techniques, primarily electron microscopy (EM), and immunohistochemistry (IHC). When coupled with routine cytological examination such as FNA and body cavity fluid cytology, EM and IHC can refine the diagnosis and make it more precise. The authors discuss how to solve common diagnostic dilemmas by the use of cytology along with IHC and EM. The following common diagnostic problems are addressed: mesothelioma versus adenocarcinoma, neuroendocrine neoplasms and their mimickers, melanoma versus carcinoma versus sarcoma, hepatocellular carcinoma versus adenocarcinoma and adenocarcinomas of unknown primary.
Ultrastructural features of diffuse malignant mesotheliomas.	The distinction of malignant mesothelioma from tumors metastatic to the serosal membranes can often be made based on the results of histochemical or immunohistochemical studies. However, in some cases, these techniques are inadequate to make a firm diagnosis. In these instances, electron microscopic studies with the observation of a constellation of characteristic ultrastructural findings may permit an unequivocal diagnosis of mesothelioma.
