Ectoparasitic sexually transmitted diseases: scabies and pediculosis.	Scabies and pediculosis are diagnosed on an almost daily basis in many dermatology offices. Whether the patient seeks medical attention because of the often unbearable itch of scabies or because of the fear of lice infestations, the physician should be on the lookout for these ectoparasitic infestations. Secondary bacterial infection, resistance to medication, and the risk of spread of the infestations to family members and other close contacts may complicate the problem. Patients frequently have to battle the myths, prejudices, and even shame that are associated with such infestations.
Diagnostic dilemma: crusted scabies superimposed on psoriatic erythroderma in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.	A 45-year-old man with AIDS presented with extensive erythema and scaling involving the face, trunk, and upper and lower extremities, and mild nail dystrophy. The patient had been diagnosed with psoriasis 2 years previously, and at the time of presentation was using emollients and topical corticosteroid creams with little improvement. He was receiving zidovudine, lamivudine, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, acyclovir, rifabutin, and hydroxyzine. Pertinent laboratory data included CD4 lymphocytes (10 cells/mm(3)), viral load (32,000 copies per mL) white blood cell count (3.4 x 10(3)/microL), hemoglobin (13.5 g/dL), and platelets (204 x 10(3)/microL). Because of the extensive eruption and lack of response to topical agents, the patient was started on acitretin 25 mg daily. The patient had shown no signs of improvement 4 weeks later and was noted to have brownish gray crusted plaques involving the beard area, neck, upper part of the back, arms, trunk, genitals, and thighs in addition to his erythroderma (Figure 1 and Figure 2). Microscopic examination of scales from the upper part of the back revealed numerous scabies mites and eggs. He was then treated with lindane shampoo on the scalp and beard area and permethrin 5% cream to the body. The patient returned 2 weeks later with some improvement after thrice-weekly applications of this regimen; however, scrapings from the trunk once again revealed live scabies mites. Microscopic examination of scales that had fallen on the examination table revealed multiple mites and eggs. The patient was then given permethrin 5% cream, which he applied 3 times a week for 2 weeks, and 1 dose of oral ivermectin, 200 micro/kg. This resulted in a marked decrease in crusting and scaling. With resolution of the scabies lesions, the patient displayed marked erythema and scaling of the trunk and extremities consistent with generalized psoriasis (Figure 3). Treatment with acitretin resulted in gradual resolution of the erythroderma. A few months later, the patient presented with nodules on the upper part of the back, which on biopsy revealed a scabies mite (Figure 4).
Control strategies for endemic childhood scabies.	Human scabies is a major global public health issue, with an estimated 300 million cases per year worldwide. Prevalence rates are particularly high in many third-world regions and within various indigenous communities in developed countries. Infestation with Sarcoptes Scabiei is associated with group-A streptococcal pyoderma which in turn predisposes to rheumatic fever, acute glomerulonephritis and their respective long-term sequelae: rheumatic heart disease and chronic renal insufficiency. The documented difficulties inherent in achieving scabies control within affected communities have motivated us to develop a network-dependent Monte-Carlo model of the scabies contagion, with the dual aims of gaining insight into its dynamics, and in determining the effects of various treatment strategies. Here we show that scabies burden is adversely affected by increases in average network degree, prominent network clustering, and by a person-to-person transmissibility of greater magnitude. We demonstrate that creating a community-specific model allows for the determination of an effective treatment protocol that can satisfy any pre-defined target prevalence. We find frequent low-density treatment protocols are inherently advantageous in comparison with infrequent mass screening and treatment regimes: prevalence rates are lower when compared with protocols that administer the same number of treatments over a given time interval less frequently, and frequent low-density treatment protocols have economic, practical and public acceptance advantages that may facilitate their long-term implementation. This work demonstrates the importance of stochasticity, community structure and the heterogeneity of individuals in influencing the dynamics of the human scabies contagion, and provides a practical method for investigating the outcomes of various intervention strategies.
Acaricidal activity of 9-oxo-10,11-dehydroageraphorone extracted from Eupatorium adenophorum in vitro.	The acaricidal activity of the 9-oxo-10,11-dehydroageraphorone (euptox A), a cadenine sesquiterpene from Eupatorium adenophorum (E. adenophorum) against Sarcoptes scabiei and Psoroptes cuniculi was tested in vitro. A complementary log-log (CLL) model was used to analyze the data of the toxicity tests in vitro. The results showed euptox A had strong toxicity against mites, killing all S. scabiei at 3 and 4 mg/ml (m/v) concentration, while 4 mg/ml euptox A was also found to kill all P. cuniculi within a 4 h period. Similarly, 2, 3 and 4 mg/ml concentration of euptox A had strong toxicity against S. scabiei, with median lethal time (LT50) values at 0.687, 0.526, 0.326 h, respectively. 3 mg/ml and 4 mg/ml showed strong acaricidal action against P. cuniculi; the LT50 values were 0.693 and 0.493 h, respectively. The median lethal concentration (LC50) values were 1.068 mg/ml for Scabies mite and 0.902 mg/ml for P. cuniculi in 2 h. The results indicate that euptox A has strong acaricidal activity and may exploit as novel drugs for the effective control of animal acariasis.
Sarcoptic mange: report of an outbreak in a family and their pet]	Scabies caused by the genus Sarcoptes scabiei var canis is a prevalent infection in dogs and affects abandoned, malnourished and overcrowded animals, causing hair loss and an intensely pruritic crusting dermatitis. In humans the manifestation is a self-limiting pruritic dermatitis, but persistent cases are described. An outbreak of sarcoptic mange is reported in a family group (seven people, including a 5 month infant and his mother). The infective source was their own house dog who was taken from the street. The diagnosis was confirmed by the detection of mites and eggs in the acarotest of the dog and mites of S. scabei in the infant. Sarcoptic mange should be suspected in individuals with allergic dermatitis who have contact with dogs. Treatment in humans is usually symptomatic and may need miticides if the infection persists. The control of the disease requires an appropriate pet treatment. 
Detection of the exoskeleton of Sarcoptes scabiei in histological sections using Fungiflora Y]	Fungiflora Y was applied to a deparaffinized section of a biopsied skin with scabies, a section of a brain infected with Cysticercus cellulosae, a section of a lung infected with Pneumocystis carinii and a section of a cockroach. The exoskeleton of the mite and the cockroach were stained with Fungiflora Y and were visualized as a greenish-blue fluorescence under incident illumination with ultraviolet light, whereas the Cysticercus cellulosae and the Pneumocystis carinii were not visualized at all. Fungiflora Y, which has been reported to stain fungi, is likely to detect arthropods exoskeleton in histological sections.
