Developmental and neural regulation of a subsarcolemmal component of the rat neuromuscular junction.	We have generated a monoclonal antibody, designated mAb 3G2, which reacts with a subsarcolemmal component of the neuromuscular junction in adult rats. mAb 3G2 immunoreactivity lies beneath and between the ACh receptor-rich synaptic gutters, around the sole plate nuclei, and at/near sarcomeric Z-disks in the vicinity of the synapse. Localization of mAb 3G2 immunoreactivity to neuromuscular junctions begins postnatally and gradually increases to adult levels. The establishment of this synaptic localization is neurally regulated, as neonatal denervation prevents its occurrence. In adults, denervation results in a loss of synaptic immunoreactivity that returns upon reinnervation. The antigen is also found at the myotendinous junction; its localization here is innervation independent. mAb 3G2 recognizes a 41 kDa protein on immunoblots of extracts of newborn muscle. Based on its distribution within muscle fibers, its developmental and neural regulation, and its molecular weight, the protein recognized by mAb 3G2 can be distinguished from other known postsynaptic proteins. Its neural dependence and developmental regulation suggest that it may participate in synaptic stabilization, perhaps as the intracellular component in a chain of proteins that serve to tether the nerve terminal to the perijunctional region of the muscle fiber.
Rhythmic ryanodine receptor Ca2+ releases during diastolic depolarization of sinoatrial pacemaker cells do not require membrane depolarization.	Localized, subsarcolemmal Ca2+ release (LCR) via ryanodine receptors (RyRs) during diastolic depolarization of sinoatrial nodal cells augments the terminal depolarization rate. We determined whether LCRs in rabbit sinoatrial nodal cells require the concurrent membrane depolarization, or are intrinsically rhythmic, and whether rhythmicity is linked to the spontaneous cycle length. Confocal linescan images revealed persistent LCRs both in saponin-permeabilized cells and in spontaneously beating cells acutely voltage-clamped at the maximum diastolic potential. During the initial stage of voltage clamp, the LCR spatiotemporal characteristics did not differ from those in spontaneously beating cells, or in permeabilized cells bathed in 150 nmol/L Ca2+. The period of persistent rhythmic LCRs during voltage clamp was slightly less than the spontaneous cycle length before voltage clamp. In spontaneously beating cells, in both transient and steady states, LCR period was highly correlated with the spontaneous cycle length; and regardless of the cycle length, LCRs occurred predominantly at a constant time, ie, 80% to 90% of the cycle length. Numerical model simulations incorporating LCRs reproduce the experimental results. We conclude that diastolic LCRs reflect rhythmic intracellular Ca2+ cycling that does not require the concomitant membrane depolarization, and that LCR periodicity is closely linked to the spontaneous cycle length. Thus, the biological clock of sinoatrial nodal pacemaker cells, like that of many other rhythmic functions occurring throughout nature, involves an intracellular Ca2+ rhythm.
Overexpression of mini-agrin in skeletal muscle increases muscle integrity and regenerative capacity in laminin-alpha2-deficient mice.	Mutations in the gene encoding the alpha2 subunit of laminins cause the severe "merosin-deficient congenital muscular dystrophy" (MDC1A). We have recently shown that overexpression of a miniaturized form of the molecule agrin (mini-agrin) counteracts the disease in dy(W)/dy(W) mice, a model for MDC1A. However, these mice express some residual truncated laminin-alpha2, suggesting that the observed amelioration might be due to mini-agrin's presenting the residual laminin-alpha2 to its receptors. Here we show that the mini-agrin counteracts the disease in dy(3K)/dy(3K) mice, which are null for laminin-alpha2. As in dy(W)/dy(W) mice, mini-agrin improves both the function and structure of muscle. We show that muscle regeneration after injury is severely impaired in dy(3K)/dy(3K) mice but is restored in the mini-agrin-expressing littermates. In summary, our results 1) show that the direct linkage of muscle basal lamina with the sarcolemma is the basis of mini-agrin-mediated amelioration and 2) provide unprecedented evidence that this linkage is important for proper regeneration of muscle fibers after injury. Our findings thus suggest that treatment with mini-agrin might be beneficial over the entire spectrum of the MDC1A disease, whose severity inversely correlates with expression levels and the size of the truncation in laminin-alpha2.
Sarcolemmal ion currents and sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ content in ventricular myocytes from the cold stenothermic fish, the burbot (Lota lota).	The burbot (Lota lota) is a cold stenothermic fish species whose heart is adapted to function in the cold. In this study we use whole-cell voltage-clamp techniques to characterize the electrophysiological properties of burbot ventricular myocytes and to test the hypothesis that changes in membrane currents and intracellular Ca2+ cycling associated cold-acclimation in other fish species are routine for stenothermic cold-adapted species. Experiments were performed at 4 degrees C, which is the body temperature of burbot for most of the year, and after myocytes were acutely warmed to 11 degrees C, which is in the upper range of temperatures experienced by burbot in nature. Results on K+ channels support our hypothesis as the relative density of K-channel conductances in the burbot heart are similar to those found for cold-acclimated cold-active fish species. I(K1) conductance was small (39.2+/-5.4 pS pF(-1) at 4 degrees C and 71.4+/-1.7 pS pF(-1) at 11 degrees C) and I(Kr) was large (199+/-27 pS pF(-1) at 4 degrees C and 320.3+/-8 pS pF(-1) at 11 degrees C) in burbot ventricular myocytes. We found high Na+-Ca2+ exchange (NCX) activity (35.9+/-6.3 pS pF(-1) at 4 degrees C and 58.6+/-8.4 pS pF(-1) at 11 degrees C between -40 and 20 mV), suggesting that it may be the primary pathway for sarcolemmal (SL) Ca2+ influx in this species. In contrast, the density (I(Ca), 0.81+/-0.13 pA pF(-1) at 4 degrees C, and 1.35+/-0.18 pA pF(-1) at 11 degrees C) and the charge (Q(Ca), 0.24+/-0.043 pC pF(-1) at 4 degrees C and 0.21+/-0.034 pC pF(-1) at 11 degrees C) carried by the L-type Ca2+ current was small. Our results on sarcolemmal ion currents in burbot ventricular myocytes suggest that cold stenothermy and compensative cold-acclimation involve many of the same subcellular adaptations that culminate in enhanced excitability in the cold.
5-Hydroxydecanoate and coenzyme A are inhibitors of native sarcolemmal KATP channels in inside-out patches.	5-Hydroxydecanoate (5-HD) inhibits preconditioning, and it is assumed to be a selective inhibitor of mitochondrial ATP-sensitive K(+) (mitoK(ATP)) channels. However, 5-HD is a substrate for mitochondrial outer membrane acyl-CoA synthetase, which catalyzes the reaction: 5HD + CoA + ATP --> 5-HD-CoA (5-hydroxydecanoyl-CoA) + AMP + pyrophosphate. We aimed to determine whether the reactants or principal product of this reaction modulate sarcolemmal K(ATP) (sarcK(ATP)) channel activity.
Na(+)-independent Cl(-)-HCO3- exchange in sarcolemmal vesicles from vascular smooth muscle.	Intracellular pH (pHin) affects vascular smooth muscle function, but the mechanisms that control pHin in this tissue are not well understood. These studies were performed to determine whether sarcolemmal vesicles from bovine superior mesenteric artery (SMA) contain a Na(+)-independent Cl(-)-HCO3- exchanger and, if so, to determine its sensitivity to membrane voltage and inhibitors. 36Cl- was taken up by vesicles into an osmotically active intravesicular space. In Na(+)-free media, an outwardly or inwardly directed HCO3- gradient stimulated 36Cl- transport in the opposite direction. An outwardly directed unlabeled Cl- gradient stimulated 36Cl- uptake by a mechanism that was inhibited by external HCO3-. HCO3- or Cl- gradient-stimulated 36Cl- uptake was not due to voltage coupling between ions. In the nominal absence of HCO3-, a threefold outwardly directed OH- gradient did not affect 36Cl- uptake. Total 36Cl- uptake was stimulated by an inside-positive voltage, but the HCO3- gradient-stimulated component of 36Cl- uptake was insensitive to a change in membrane voltage. Finally, HCO3- gradient-stimulated 36Cl- uptake was inhibited by 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS) and furosemide, with 50% inhibitory concentration values equalling approximately 1.0 and 0.5 mM, respectively. These data indicate that sarcolemmal vesicles from bovine SMA contain a Na(+)-independent Cl(-)-HCO3- exchanger. This transport system is probably electroneutral and is inhibitable by DIDS and furosemide. A conductive pathway for Cl- is present in the vesicles, but Cl(-)-OH- exchange activity was not observed.
Molecular analysis of protein assembly in muscle development.	The challenge presented by myofibril assembly in striated muscle is to understand the molecular mechanisms by which its protein components are arranged at each level of organization. Recent advances in the genetics and cell biology of muscle development have shown that in vivo assembly of the myofilaments requires a complex array of structural and associated proteins and that organization of whole sarcomeres occurs initially at the cell membrane. These studies have been complemented by in vitro analyses of the renaturation, polymerization, and three-dimensional structure of the purified proteins.
Increased sarcolemmal permeability as an early event in experimental septic cardiomyopathy: a potential role for oxidative damage to lipids and proteins.	This study describes increased sarcolemmal permeability and myofilamentar damage that occur together with lipid peroxidation and protein nitration in the myocardium in severe sepsis induced by cecal ligation and puncture. Male C57BL/6 mice were submitted to moderate and severe septic injury and sham operation. Using light and laser confocal microscopy, diffuse foci of myocytolysis associated with focal disruption of the actin/myosin contractile apparatus could be seen in hearts with severe septic injury. The myocardial expressions of the sarcomeric proteins myosin and actin were downregulated by both severe and moderate injuries. The detection of albumin staining in the cytoplasm of myocytes to evaluate sarcolemmal permeability provided evidence of severe and mild injury of the plasma membrane in hearts with severe and moderate septic injury, respectively. The administration of a superoxide scavenger caused marked reduction of sarcolemmal permeability, indicating the involvement of free radicals in its genesis. On electron microscopy, these changes were seen to correspond to spread blocks of a few myocytes with fragmentation and dissolution of myofibrils, intracellular edema, and, occasionally, rupture of the sarcolemma. In addition, oxidative damage to lipids, using anti-4-hydroxynonenal, an indicator of oxidative stress and disruption of plasma membrane lipids, and to proteins, using antinitrotyrosine, a stable biomarker of peroxynitrite-mediated protein nitration, was demonstrated. These findings make plausible the hypothesis that increased sarcolemmal permeability might be a primary event in myocardial injury in severe sepsis possibly due to oxidative damage to lipids and proteins that could precede phenotypic changes that characterize a septic cardiomyopathy.
Role of t-tubules in the control of trans-sarcolemmal ion flux and intracellular Ca2+ in a model of the rat cardiac ventricular myocyte.	The t-tubules of mammalian ventricular myocytes are invaginations of the surface membrane that form a complex network within the cell, with restricted diffusion to the bulk extracellular space. The trans-sarcolemmal flux of many ions, including Ca(2+), occurs predominantly across the t-tubule membrane and thus into and out of this restricted diffusion space. It seems possible, therefore, that ion concentration changes may occur in the t-tubule lumen, which would alter ion flux across the t-tubule membrane. We have used a computer model of the ventricular myocyte, incorporating a t-tubule compartment and experimentally determined values for diffusion between the t-tubule lumen and bulk extracellular space, and ion fluxes across the t-tubule membrane, to investigate this possibility. The results show that influx and efflux of different ion species across the t-tubule membrane are similar, but not equal. Changes of ion concentration can therefore occur close to the t-tubular membrane, thereby altering trans-sarcolemmal ion flux and thus cell function, although such changes are reduced by diffusion to the bulk extracellular space. Slowing diffusion results in larger changes in luminal ion concentrations. These results provide a deeper understanding of the role of the t-tubules in normal cell function, and are a basis for understanding the changes that occur in heart failure as a result of changes in t-tubule structure and ion fluxes.
Pathophysiologic and anesthetic considerations for patients with myotonia congenita or periodic paralyses.	Myotonia congenita and periodic paralyses are hereditary skeletal muscle channelopathies. In these disorders, various channel defects in the sarcolemma lead to a severely disturbed membrane excitability of the affected skeletal muscles. The clinical picture can range from severe myotonic reactions (e.g., masseter spasm, opisthotonus) to attacks of weakness and paralysis. Provided here is a short overview of the pathomechanisms behind such wide-ranging phenotypic presentations in these patients, followed by recommendations concerning the management of anesthesia in such populations. 
Negative surface charge density near heart calcium channels. Relevance to block by dihydropyridines.	We have measured the density of negative surface charges near the voltage sensor for inactivation gating of (L-type) Ca channels in intact calf Purkinje fibers and in isolated myocytes from guinea pig and rat ventricles. Divalent cation-induced changes in the half-maximal voltage for inactivation were determined and were well described by curves predicted by surface potential theory. We measured shifts in inactivation induced by Ca, Sr, and Ba in the single cells, and by Sr in the Purkinje fibers. All of the data were consistent with an estimated negative surface charge density of 1 electronic charge per 250 A2. In addition, the data suggest that Ca, but neither Ba nor Sr, binds to the negative charges with an association constant on the order of 1 M-1. We find that divalent ion-induced changes in surface potential can account for most of the antagonism between these ions and Ca channel block by 1,4-dihydropyridines.
Sodium channels near end-plates and nuclei of snake skeletal muscle.	1. The spatial distribution of the two predominant types of voltage-gated channels in the sarcolemma, Na+ channels and delayed K+ channels, was studied in skeletal muscle fibres of garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis) using loose-seal patch recordings. 2. The average Na+-current density was five times larger in the perijunctional sarcolemma (within 25 microns of the visible edge of the end-plate) than at distant locations. K+ currents were not larger near end-plates. The apparent membrane capacitance, 3-6 microF/cm2, was the same in perijunctional and extrajunctional regions, indicating that differences in Na+-current density reflect differences in the number of Na+ channels per unit membrane area. 3. Perijunctional Na+ channels had the same voltage dependence, gating kinetics and sensitivity to tetrodotoxin as extrajunctional Na+ channels, suggesting that these cells express a single type of Na+ channel. 4. Myonuclei were found to cluster near end-plates and to avoid regions where a nerve branch or blood vessel crossed a fibre's surface. 5. Na+-current density in the sarcolemma above a nucleus was no larger than away from nuclei, indicating that functional Na+ channels are probably not inserted near nuclei. 6. Maps spanning several millimetres of fibre length showed up to sixfold differences in current density between widely separated patches. Differences between patches separated by 50 or 100 microns were much smaller.
Fall in intracellular pH and increase in resting tension induced by a mitochondrial uncoupling agent in crayfish muscle.	1. The influence of the mitochondrial uncoupling agent carbonylcyanide-m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) upon resting tension and intracellular pH (pHi) was studied in the dactyl opener muscle of the crayfish. pHi was measured with liquid sensor H+-selective microelectrodes. 2. CCCP (10(-6)-10(-5) mol l-1) induced a reversible, tonic contracture which was associated with a depolarization of the membrane potential. Both effects were augmented by a fall and inhibited by a rise in extracellular pH. The action of CCCP on tension was not mimicked by cyanide + oligomycin or by cyanide + dicyclohexylcarbodiimide nor was it inhibited by pre-exposure to these agents. 3. CCCP produced an initial alkalosis of less than 0.1 units and thereafter a fall in pHi of 0.4-0.6 units during which the sarcolemmal H+ driving force decreased from 61 to 15 mV. The apparent influx of H+ due to CCCP had a maximum of 2.7 mequiv l-1 min-1. The CCCP-induced acidosis was unaffected by iodacetate (0.5 mmol l-1) but it was inhibited by a depolarization of the membrane potential. 4. The contraction caused by CCCP was not due to the simultaneous fall in pHi since an intracellular acidosis of equal magnitude, produced by propionate (50 mmol l-1), did not lead to force generation. In addition, propionate had an inhibitory effect on the depolarization and contracture caused by CCCP. 5. Both the depolarization and the contracture caused by CCCP were inhibited by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). The contracture was blocked by Cd2+, Mn2+ and by a nominally Ca2+ -free medium but not by a pre-exposure to caffeine (20 mmol l-1). Cd2+ and Mn2+ had no influence on the fall of pHi caused by CCCP. 6. It is concluded that CCCP induces a sarcolemmal H+ conductance which leads to a fall in pHi and to a depolarization of the membrane potential. This depolarization activates sarcolemmal, voltage-dependent calcium channels and thereby induces an increase in tension. The initial alkalosis produced by CCCP may be due to a transient uptake of H+ by mitochondria.
Prevention of exercise-induced muscle membrane damage by oestradiol.	Exercise can damage the muscle membrane, followed by leakage of certain muscle proteins into the bloodstream. This postexercise response differs for males and females; as an explanation for this difference it has been suggested that oestrogens have a protective effect on the female muscle membrane. We recently developed an animal exercise model in which postexercise damage can be studied in laboratory animals in vivo. A postexercise dimorphism, similar to that in humans, exists in rats and indirect evidence for the involvement of oestradiol (E2) was found. We report here 1) that ovariectomized females show postexercise damage like males, 2) that this response can be prevented by E2-replacement before exercise, and 3) that males, after E2-treatment, no longer show postexercise muscle damage. We therefore conclude that oestradiol indeed plays an important role in protecting skeletal muscle, both in females and in males.
Mechanical properties of the frog sarcolemma.	The elastic properties of cylindrical segments of sarcolemma were studied in single striated fibers of the frog semitendinosus muscle. All measurements were made on membranes of retraction zones, cell segments from which the sarcoplasm had retracted. Quantitative morphological studies indicated that three deforming forces interact with the intrinsic elastic properties of the sarcolemma to determine membrane configuration in retraction zone segments. The three deforming forces, namely intrazone pressure, axial fiber loads, and radial stresses introduced by retracted cell contents, could all be experimentally removed, permitting determination of the "undeformed" configuration of the sarcolemma. Analysis of these results indicated that membrane of intact fibers at rest length is about four times as wide and two-thirds as long as undeformed membrane. Membrane geometry was also studied as a function of internal hydrostatic pressure and axial loading to permit calculation of the circumferential and longitudinal tension-strain (T-S) diagrams. The sarcolemma exhibited nonlinear T-S properties concave to the tension axis in both directions. Circumferential T-S slopes (measures of membrane stiffness) ranged from 1500 to greater than 50,000 dynes/cm over the range of deformations investigated, while longitudinal T-S slopes varied from 23,000 to 225,000 dynes/cm. Thus, the membrane is anisotropic, being much stiffer in the longitudinal direction. Certain ramifications of the present results are discussed in relation to previous biomechanical studies of the sarcolemma and of other tissues.
Diminished Na+/K+ and Ca2+ pump activities in the Ca2+ depleted heart: possible role in the development of Ca2+ overload during the Ca2+ paradox.	Experiments were carried out to test the hypothesis that membrane injury associated with Ca2+ depletion of the heart is involved in the development of Ca2+ overload during the Ca2+ paradox phenomenon. Biochemical properties of sarcolemma (SL) and sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) isolated from the rabbit heart after 10 min of Ca2+-free perfusion were examined. This treatment predisposes hearts to the Ca2+ paradox as assessed by perfusate creatine kinase (CK) activity and heart contractility during reperfusion with Ca2+. Homogenates prepared from Ca2+ depleted heart were examined for their capacity to accumulate Ca2+ in the presence of ATP, which is mainly a property of the SR Ca2+ pump. The initial rate of Ca2+ pumping was 55% less in the Ca2+ depleted heart. The activities of 5'-nucleotidase, Na+/K+-ATPase and Na+/Ca2+ antiporter, and the Ca2+ permeability were studied in isolated SL vesicles. Na+/K+-ATPase activity was 75% less in SL isolated from Ca2+ depleted hearts, no significant changes were observed with the other parameters studied. Calmodulin (CaM) content in SL, assayed by radioimmunoassay, was unchanged. However, a 98% increase was observed in homogenates prepared from Ca2+ depleted hearts. The possible involvement of CaM in the Ca2+ paradox phenomenon is discussed. The data provide evidence that the net Ca2+ gain of myocardial cells in Ca2+ repletion may in part be associated with a loss of the ability of the SL and SR to remove Ca2+ from the cytosol.
Intercellular coupling in frog heart muscle. Electrophysiological and morphological aspects.	Passive electrical parameters of bullfrog atrial trabeculae were measured in a single gap arrangement. Attention was focussed on the resistance of internal longitudinal pathway. The influence of external Ca2+ depletion was tested using EGTA as chelating agent. Morphometry of trabeculae, fine structure of junctional complexes, and distribution of membrane-bound Ca were investigated by light and electron microscopic methods. The specific internal resistance to longitudinal current flow was 523 omega cm with normal Ringer as perfusing fluid and 1140 omega cm in EGTA-containing solution. These values are considered to represent the sum of myoplasmic and junctional resistivity. Morphometrical studies indicated an interstitial space of 12%, a mean cell length of 358 micron, and a mean cell diameter of 3.2 micron. In freeze-fractured preparations junctional structures were observed in the form of "atypical gap junctions" consisting of 10 nm particles arranged in a circular or linear array. The number of gap junctions was estimated to range between 20 and 50/cell which is equivalent to a junctional area of 0.01 or 0.03% of total surface area. A mean number of 55 particles/gap junction was calculated. After 20 min of exposure to EGTA the majority of junctional complexes were converted to clusters; the number of particles/gap junction was not significantly altered. The fluorescent dye CTC was used as a probe for membrane-bound Ca of isolated living cells. In normal Ringer a strong fluorescence was seen at the cell surface and in different intracellular compartments. With EGTA both superficial and internal fluorescence disappeared completely. From a combination of electrical and morphometrical data the resistance of intercellular junctions was calculated. Under normal conditions the specific resistance of junctional membrane amounted to 0.4 omega cm2 and the resistance of an individual connection was of the order of 10(11) omega. With EGTA, the respective values were increased by about 230%. The mechanism underlying this depression of junctional conductance is not clear. It seems not related to a rise of cytoplasmic free Ca2+. The EGTA-induced increase in internal resistance was reflected by a decrease of the length constant of a bundle. The nature of "atypical gap junctions" and their relation to tight junctions are discussed. It is concluded that the junctions observed in frog atrial muscle are analogous to gap junctions of insect or mammalian cells in spite of the different size and arrangement of the particles. A theoretical model is presented for the electrical behaviour of a bundle in a single gap arrangement.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Postnatal development of sarcolemmal invaginations in right atrial myocardium of the rat.	Postnatal development of the sarcolemmal invaginations of right atrial cells of the rat has been studied using standard fixation combined with tannic acid mordanting. T tubules were seen to form at Z lines as simple tubular invaginations starting at the 14th postnatal day. T tubules were present in most cells by the 18th postnatal day but, as in the adult, were restricted to peripheral regions. Also, between the 16th and 18th postnatal day a proliferation of caveolae was seen, both as single vesicles and as complexes with up to a dozen caveolae sharing the same neck. The caveolar complexes persisted in the adult and did not seem to contribute significantly to the formation of the T tubules. Dyadic couplings were seen to become more abundant as T tubules and caveolae proliferated. These findings are discussed in relation to transsarcolemmal Ca2+ movements and excitation-contraction coupling during postnatal development.
Effect of limb immobilization on skeletal muscle.	The immobilization of limbs resulted in atrophy of those muscles that are fixed either at or less than resting length. The loss in protein in these muscles can be described by a first-order equation. Decreases in protein synthesis rate in muscles of immobilized limbs occur during the first 6 h of immobilization, and this decrease probably played a role in initiating muscular atrophy. After weeks of immobilization, muscles composed predominately of slow-twitch fibers took on properties characteristic of fast twitch muscles. The EMG activity of muscles in immobilized limbs was reduced to 5--15% of control levels. Insulin responsiveness for 2-deoxyglucose uptake into the soleus muscle of a limb is decreased at the 24th h of limb immobilization. Muscles of immobilized limbs have either no change or a decrease in resting membrane potential, an increase in extrajunctional acetylcholine receptors of lesser magnitude than the increase that occurred in denervated muscle, and no change in acetylcholinesterase activity in neuromuscular junctions. Immobilizing muscles at stretched lengths prevented the decrease in nerve afterhyperpolarization that was seen in muscles immobilized at shortened positions. These observations suggested that metabolic changes in muscles have a retrograde trophic influence on motor nerves. The model of limb immobilization permits the study of many fundamental problems concerned with mechanisms by which a muscle adapts so that it can meet the requirements of the external environment.
Taurine and hyperexcitable human muscle: effects of taurine on potassium-induced hyperexcitability of dystrophic myotonic and normal muscles.	Progressively increasing concentrations of potassium chloride in Evans blue saline were administered to patients affected with myotonic dystrophy and to healthy volunteers before and after parenteral treatment with taurine. Excitability changes of thenar eminence muscles were related to the venous potassium and chloride concentrations. The actual electrolyte concentrations were compared to those to be expected if no infused electrolytes had been transported into cells. The expected concentrations were calculated by means of Evans blue dilution. This method permitted quantification of changes of muscle-excitability in terms of the potassium chloride concentration capable of disturbing the electrical activity of the studied muscles. The method also provided an indirect evaluation of electrolyte movements across muscle membrane in vivo in humans. Dystrophic myotonic muscles appeared highly sensitive to extracellular potassium and, unlike normal muscles, were unable to accumulate potassium-induced muscle hyperexcitability and favored electrolyte accumulation in dystrophic myotonic muscles. The stabilizing effect of taurine is discussed in relation to its ability to increase intracellular potassium concentration, membrane conductance, or both.
Change in the permeability of cardiomyocyte sarcolemma after short-term total ischemia]	Total ischemia (10 min) was produced in experimental rats by compression of the vascular band at the heart base. Sarcolemma permeability was studied with electron-microscopic tracer lantan at the height of ischemia and during 24 hours after resuscitation. It was established that reperfusion induces derangement of glycocalix and elevation of permeability of sarcolemma basal membrane. Plasmatic membrane in most cardiomyocytes was intact. This is an important factor of reversibility of myocardial lesion reperfusion.
Benign familial disease with muscle mounding and rippling.	Four members of a family in three generations exhibited unusual clinical features of localised transient swelling of muscle induced by percussion (muscle mounding or myoedema) and were able, voluntarily, to induce rhythmic waves of contraction in certain muscles (muscle rippling or rolling). All had raised serum creatine kinase activity. Muscle biopsy in two members showed no specific abnormality. Experimental studies performed on excised intercostal muscle showed that abnormal "after-contractions" and increased sarcolemmal excitability could be demonstrated in vitro.
