Effects of platinum-thymine on mitosis of sarcoma-180 ascites cells in vitro: ultrastructural study.	Electron microscopic studies of sarcoma-180 ascites cells, which were treated with platinum-thymine at a concentration of 60 micrograms/ml, showed mitotic inhibition. The drug clumped the chromosomes into a compact mass at the center of the cell preventing them from separating during mitosis. Prolonged treatment depolymerized spindle fibers and cytoplasmic microfilament. Degraded cytoplasmic organelles crowded around the clumped chromosomes. Disintegrating and casting off of cortical cytoplasm was apparent. Platinum-thymine-treated cells did not resume mitosis irrespective of the amount of time they were allowed to remain in fresh medium. Perturbation of mitotic machinery by platinum-thymine inhibited the mitotic process and caused eventual demise of the cancer cells.
Marker chromosome study of murine cell line tumor tissues]	By C-method of chromosome staining three transplantable murine tumor lines passaged in vivo were studied. Marker chromosomes were discovered in all cell lines under observation. The previously described marker chromosomes B and C were found in transplantable Ehrlich ascites carcinoma cells, acrocentric chromosome with additional C-band --in cells of line C-37, acrocentric chromosome with double quantity of subcentrometric heterochromatin in cells of line TG-180. The data obtained make it possible to distinguish the lines under study by C-method of chromosome staining.
Cytoplasmic RNA from hen reticulocytes, mouse sarcoma 180 ascites cells, rat liver and barley embryos. Their preparation and purification by a standard procedure and characterization by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.	1. This paper describes a standard procedure for the preparation and purification of RNA from the post-mitochondrial supernatants of a number of eukaryotes. 2. Cytoplasmic RNA was fractionated by NaCl precipitation. The 28S (26S), 18S and 5.8S rRNA, and 9S RNA, in the NaCl insoluble fraction were separated by a two-step sucrose gradient fractionation procedure. Poly(A)-containing mRNA in hen 9S RNA was purified by affinity chromatography. The 5S rRNA and tRNA in the NaCl-soluble fraction were fractionated by gel filtration. 3. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed that the above RNA species were remarkably stable and homogeneous. Differences were found in the 26-28S rRNA, 5.8S rRNA, and 9S RNA of different eukaryotes, but other cytoplasmic RNA species were identical.
