Immunohistochemical localization of somatostatin receptor sst2A in sarcoid granulomas.	In a previous study, we demonstrated the presence of receptors for somatostatin, a neuropeptide with immunoregulatory properties, in the inflammatory lesions of patients suffering from sarcoidosis and other granulomatous diseases by in vivo somatostatin receptor scintigraphy and in vitro autoradiography. However, it was not possible to identify exactly which cell types expressed the somatostatin receptors and which subtype was expressed. In this study we used a polyclonal antiserum directed against the sst2A receptor to identify more accurately the sst2A-expressing cells in sarcoidosis and other granulomatous diseases.
Prognostic determinants of long-term survival in Japanese patients with cardiac sarcoidosis treated with prednisone.	Cardiac involvement is an important prognostic factor in sarcoidosis, but reliable indicators of mortality risk in cardiac sarcoidosis are unstudied in a large number of patients. To determine the significant predictors of mortality and to assess the efficacy of corticosteroids, we analyzed clinical findings, treatment, and prognosis in 95 Japanese patients with cardiac sarcoidosis. Twenty of these 95 patients had cardiac sarcoidosis proven by autopsy; none of these patients had received corticosteroids. We assessed 12 clinical variables as possible predictors of mortality by Cox proportional hazards model in 75 steroid-treated patients. During the mean follow-up of 68 months, 29 patients (73%) died of congestive heart failure and 11 (27%) experienced sudden death. Kaplan-Meier survival curves showed 5-year survival rates of 75% in the steroid-treated patients and of 89% in patients with a left ventricular ejection fraction > or = 50%, whereas there was only 10% 5-year survival rate in autopsy subjects. There was no significant difference in survival curves of patients treated with a high initial dose (> 30 mg) and a low initial dose (> or = 30 mg) of prednisone. Multivariate analysis identified New York Heart Association functional class (hazard ratio 7.72 per class I increase, p = 0.0008), left ventricular end-diastolic diameter (hazard ratio 2.60/10 mm increase, p = 0.02), and sustained ventricular tachycardia (hazard ratio 7.20, p = 0.03) as independent predictors of mortality. In conclusion, the severity of heart failure was one of the most significant independent predictors of mortality for cardiac sarcoidosis. Starting corticosteroids before the occurrence of systolic dysfunction resulted in an excellent clinical outcome. A high initial dose of prednisone may not be essential for treatment of cardiac sarcoidosis.
Adenocarcinoma of the colon associated with sarcoidosis.	Lymph node swelling in the setting of malignancy generally suggests metastasis of the primary tumor. Here, we describe a patient with adenocarcinoma of the colon with regional and systemic lymph node enlargement that resulted from sarcoid reaction, not metastasis. Interestingly, sarcoidosis regressed after treatment of colon cancer. The literature is reviewed and possible mechanisms are explained.
A case of sarcoidosis with primary cavitation relapsing after the cessation of corticosteroid therapy]	We report a case of sarcoidosis in which primary pulmonary cavitation occurred during the administration of corticosteroid, and later relapsed after the cessation of corticosteroid treatment. A 24-year-old man, who had been diagnosed as having ocular sarcoidosis and was treated with corticosteroid, presented with multiple nodular shadows with enclosed a cavity on a chest radiograph. A chest CT scan showed mediastinal lymphadenopathy and multiple nodular opacities enclosing a cavity. Pathological findings from a transbronchial lung biopsy revealed non caseating epithelioid cell granulomas without any mycobacterial or fungal pathogen. The patient's general condition deteriorated three years after the discontinuation of corticosteroid therapy. After resumption of prednisolone (30 mg/day), clinical findings were improving.
Sarcoidosis succumbs to antibiotics--implications for autoimmune disease.	From time to time there have been reports of autoimmune disease succumbing to tetracycline antibiotics, but many have assumed this was due to coincidence, or to some ill-defined 'anti-inflammatory property' of the tetracyclines. But now the inflammation of sarcoidosis has succumbed to antibiotics in two independent studies. This review examines the cell wall deficient (antibiotic resistant) bacteria which have been found in tissue from patients with sarcoidosis. It examines how such bacteria can infect the phagocytes of the immune system, and how they may therefore be responsible for not only sarcoid inflammation, but also for other autoimmune disease. Proof positive of a bacterial pathogenesis for Sarcoidosis includes not only the demonstrated ability of these studies to put the disease into remission, but also the severity of Jarisch-Herxheimer shock resulting from endotoxin release as the microbes are killed. Studies delineating the hormone responsible for phagocyte differentiation in the Th1 immune response, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, are discussed, and its utility as a marker of Th1 immune inflammation is reviewed. Finally, data showing that the behavior of this hormone is also aberrant in rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and Parkinson's, raise the possibility that these diseases may also have a CWD bacterial pathogenesis.
Cutaneous and pulmonary sarcoidosis in association with tattoos.	Sarcoidosis encompasses a heterogeneous spectrum of clinical presentations, including sarcoidosis in association with tattoos. We report the development of cutaneous and pulmonary sarcoidosis in a patient with long-standing eyebrow tattoos whose cutaneous sarcoidosis almost completely resolved when treated with tacrolimus 0.1% ointment. A 70-year-old woman with a 3-year history of an erythematous eruption circumscribing her eyebrow tattoos presented with a chronic, nonproductive cough of 8 months' duration. Skin biopsy results demonstrated naked tubercles consistent with sarcoidosis. Results of radiographs and a computed tomography scan of the chest revealed multiple pulmonary nodules with mediastinal and hilar adenopathy. The results of transbronchial biopsy were consistent with the diagnosis of pulmonary sarcoidosis. Initial treatment with oral prednisone only improved the pulmonary sarcoidosis. The cutaneous sarcoidosis almost completely resolved after the addition of tacrolimus 0.1% ointment.
A case of renal sarcoidosis with complement activation via the lectin pathway.	A 57-year-old woman with pulmonary sarcoidosis was admitted to the hospital because of an elevation of serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen. On admission, the laboratory data suggested interstitial nephritis without proteinuria and hematuria, whereas a renal biopsy showed granulomatous interstitial nephritis and mild mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis. Immunoglobulin and C1q deposits were negative, but mannose-binding lectin, C3, C4d, and C5b-9 deposits were marked in the glomerular mesangial areas. The lectin pathway of complement activation may have contributed to the development of glomerular injury in this patient. DNA of Propionibacterium acnes , which is now strongly suspected as the pathogen of sarcoidosis, was detected in the patient's glomerular mesangial cells; tubular epithelial cells, which were involved in granulomatous inflammation; and mononuclear cells in epithelioid granulomas by in situ hybridization. These findings may add new insights to the pathogenesis of renal sarcoidosis, including its relation to infection, because mannose-binding lectin plays a crucial role in the host defense against various pathogens. From this case of renal sarcoidosis, it is hypothesized that P acnes may be involved in pathogenesis of granulomatous interstitial nephritis and that it plays a role in glomerular complement activation via the lectin pathway.
Recurrence of sarcoidosis in a cardiac allograft: control with augmented corticosteroids.	Sarcoidosis of the heart is an unusual but previously reported indication for heart transplantation. It is clear that sarcoidosis is a systemic disease, but in spite of this, recurrence in the cardiac allograft has not been previously noted. The case presented here is that of a 34-year-old male in whom cardiac sarcoidosis recurred in the allograft 6 months after heart transplantation.
Borrelia burgdorferi may be the causal agent of sarcoidosis]	Serum antibody to Borrelia burgdorferi was measured in 33 patients with sarcoidosis who were confirmed clinically and pathologically. The results showed that 81.8% of the patients were positive. In addition, a strain of Borrelia burgdorferi was isolated from a patient's blood. Fourteen patients received ceftriaxone 2 g per day and/or penicillin 12 million per day and a patient received lincomycin 1.2 g per day. The antibody titer of the patients turned to normal level, their SACE turned to normal range, and chest X-ray findings were markedly improved in 3 cases after the treatment. According to the facts mentioned above, we consider that Borrelia burgdorferi may be the causal agent of sarcoidosis and sarcoidosis might be a special type of Lyme disease.
Sarcoidosis of parotid glands. A case report]	Despite much progress made in terms of understanding sarcoidosis, it still remains an unknown disease entity. The authors present the basic diagnostic measures clinical picture as well as treatment of patients with sarcoidosis. The study presents a case of a 38-year-old man with sarcoidosis of parotid glands treated with encortone which was followed by remission of the disease.
Tracheobronchial clearance in patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis.	Lung mucociliary clearance was measured using an objective, noninvasive radioaerosol technique in 13 patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis and 13 matched, healthy control subjects. Four of the sarcoid patients had never received any steroid therapy, five were currently receiving oral corticosteroids, and the remaining four were using inhaled corticosteroids only. A statistically significant retardation in tracheobronchial clearance (p less than 0.02) was observed in the sarcoid patients compared to the control subjects. The sarcoid patients using inhaled corticosteroids appeared to demonstrate the greatest degree of mucociliary transport impairment. The sarcoid patients in apparent remission and those receiving oral corticosteroid therapy had clearances better than those using inhaled corticosteroids, but they were still reduced compared to the control subjects. This study demonstrates that lung mucociliary clearance is adversely affected in patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis and raises the question of the possible consequences that could follow long-term inhaled immunosuppressive therapy on the prime clearance defense mechanism within the human lungs.
Melatonin is a safe and effective treatment for chronic pulmonary and extrapulmonary sarcoidosis.	Chronic sarcoidosis (CS) is often unresponsive to usual treatments. Melatonin, an immunoregulatory drug, was employed in CS patients in whom usual treatments were ineffective or induced severe side effects. Melatonin was given for 2 yr (20 mg/day in the first year, 10 mg/day in the second year) to 18 CS patients. Pulmonary function tests, chest X rays, pulmonary computed tomography, Ga(67) scintigraphy and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) were assayed at baseline and in the follow-up. Normalization of ACE, improvement of pulmonary parameters and resolution of skin involvement were found in the patients given melatonin. After 24 months of melatonin therapy, hylar adenopathy completely resolved in eight patients and parenchymal lesions were markedly improved in all patients; in the five patients with reduced diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide, the values normalized after 6 months of therapy and remained stable until month 24. After 24 months, Ga(67) pulmonary and extra-pulmonary uptake was totally normalized in seven patients and, at month 12 months, ACE was normalized in six patients in which the values were high at the baseline. Skin lesions, present in three patients, completely disappeared at month 24 months. No side effects were experienced and no disease relapse was observed during melatonin treatment. Melatonin may be an effective and safe therapy for CS when other treatments fail or cause side effects.
Vitronectin in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid is increased in patients with interstitial lung disease.	Vitronectin, also known as S-protein, is a 75,000-dalton serum glycoprotein that has a variety of functions, including the capacity to interact with the terminal components of the complement cascade, the coagulation system, and cell surfaces. By virtue of its ability to interact with cells, vitronectin is capable of mediating cell-spreading and adhesion and may also influence cell differentiation and cell growth. To investigate the possibility that vitronectin might contribute to the pathogenesis of interstitial lung disease, vitronectin was measured in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from patients with sarcoidosis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, and, for comparison, normal volunteers. Vitronectin was detected in lavage fluid and serum of all study subjects. Increased lavage fluid concentrations were found in patients with interstitial lung disease when compared with normal subjects (p less than 0.005), and glucocorticoid-treated patients with interstitial lung disease had lower vitronectin levels than did untreated patients. Furthermore, on SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis lavage fluid vitronectin comigrated with serum vitronectin, suggesting similar molecular size. Thus, vitronectin is a normal constituent of the epithelial lining fluid, and lavage fluid vitronectin is similar to serum vitronectin. The increase of vitronectin concentrations in the epithelial lining fluid of patients with interstitial lung disease suggests that vitronectin may contribute to the pathogenesis of interstitial lung disease.
Cutaneous sarcoidosis therapy updated.	The widely accepted standard therapy for cutaneous sarcoidosis includes corticosteroids, antimalarials, and methotrexate. However, a better understanding of the basic immunopathogenic properties of sarcoidosis has elucidated a number of steps critical to the persistence and progression of disease that may be vulnerable to treatment by targeted therapy. This article reviews both standard and newer therapeutic options for cutaneous sarcoidosis.
Macrophage-T suppressor cell interference in the lungs of steroid-treated sarcoidosis patients.	In the bronchoalveolar lavage of sarcoidosis patients the mononuclear cell infiltrate was enumerated on T helper and suppressor lymphocytes as well as macrophages by means of a triple-staining assay on cytospin slides. As was seen on the slides, lymphocytes were often adhered very closely to macrophages. This phenomenon, many times described but not understood, was studied in a group of 13 sarcoidosis patients, of whom 7 received prednisolone treatment. It could be shown that treatment with the corticosteroid was followed by an increase in the percentage of suppressor lymphocytes adhered to macrophages. Second, the number of such alveolar T suppressor lymphocyte-macrophage aggregates was dramatically increased in the prednisolone-treated patients.
Clinical resolution of facial cutaneous sarcoidosis with systemic colchicine and a topical corticosteroid ointment.	Sarcoidosis is a multi-systemic disease that has various dermatologic presentations. Conventional treatments have potential serious side effects. Three patients are presented who manifested rapid responses and long remissions to a treatment regimen consisting of relatively benign medicaments.
Successful treatment of secondary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis in a patient with disseminated histoplasmosis.	Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is an overwhelming inflammatory response, associated with an outpouring of cytokines and inappropriate activation of the macrophage system, causing severe morbidity and possible death. HLH has inherited and acquired forms. Secondary HLH can be related to any number of underlying conditions including infections, malignancy and autoimmune diseases. There are similarities between "cytokine storm" seen in HLH and the clinical findings of avian influenza. We report a patient with a history of sarcoidosis on chronic steroid treatment, who developed HLH secondary to an infection with Histoplasma capsulatum.
Sarcoid-like granulomas in common variable immunodeficiency.	Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is a disorder characterized by hypogammaglobulinemia, poor antibody responses and recurrent bacterial infections. CVID patients have a higher prevalence of autoimmune disease and some of them develop noncaseating granulomas of the lungs, spleen, liver, skin, lymph nodes and eye. We report herein a 5-year-old girl with CVID presented with cutaneous nodules, granulomatous uveitis and oligoarthritis. The lesions, arthritis and uveitis responded well to treatment with the systemic administration of steroid. Different autoimmune diseases could be seen together in children with CVID. These patients require therapeutic cooperation of the immunologists with different specialists, including dermatologists, rheumatologists and ophthalmologists.
MRI features of spinal neurosarcoidosis associed with cervical spondylosis]	Spinal neurosarcoidosis is rare and exceptionally inaugural.
NOD2-associated diseases: Bridging innate immunity and autoinflammation.	NOD2 is an intracellular microbial sensor of the innate immune system that can act as a potent activator and regulator of inflammation. Mutations in the gene encoding NOD2 in humans have been associated with Crohn's disease (CD), Blau syndrome (BS), and early onset sarcoidosis (EOS). These diseases have in common features of dysregulated inflammation, but have very distinct phenotypes, which have been hypothesized to result from either loss-of-function (CD) or gain-of-function (BS/EOS) mutations. Here we describe an infant with early onset sarcoidosis who presented with systemic inflammation and disseminated granulomatous disease, including the triad of granulomatous arthritis, uveitis and dermatitis, as well as unusual gastrointestinal tract granulomas. The patient had a susceptibility polymorphism of NOD2 previously described in CD, but not in BS or EOS. We discuss the complex role of NOD2 in innate immunity to microbes and the clinical consequences of disturbances in this system.
Sarcoidosis: clinical manifestations, epidemiology, therapy, and pathophysiology.	Sarcoidosis is an idiopathic granulomatous disease involving one or more multiple organ systems, characterized by the histologic finding of noncaseating epithelioid cell granulomas. The disease has a predilection for intrathoracic structures; the musculoskeletal system is less frequently involved. Most osseous lesions in sarcoidosis are visible in the small joints of the hands and feet. Articular disease may present as an acute or chronic polyarthritis. Muscle involvement in sarcoidosis is generally asymptomatic. Neurologic findings of the central and peripheral nervous systems may occur in sarcoidosis. Subcutaneous nodules are of diagnostic value. Sarcoid vasculitis may involve small and large blood vessels. Sarcoidosis of the exocrine glands may mimic Sjögren's syndrome. Spontaneous remission of disease often occurs. Treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, corticosteroids, antimalarials, radiation therapy, and immune-modulating drugs may be beneficial in the treatment of sarcoidosis.
Pancreatic involvement detected with (18)F-FDG PET/CT in disseminated sarcoidosis.	La sarcoidosis is a granulomatous disease of unknown etiology. It may mimic malignancy and may affect multiple organs, with a variable clinical course. Pancreatic involvement is very rare. We present the case of a 78-year-old woman with systemic sarcoidosis whose (18)F-FDG PET/CT scan showed a pancreatic lesion and multiple lymphatic (thoracic and non-thoracic) and visceral lesions. The abnormal (18)F-FDG uptake in the pancreas was limited to the tail. A second (18)F-FDG PET/CT study performed 4 months and 3 weeks after the first PET/CT, following corticosteroid therapy during three and a half months, evidenced partial regression of the disease, with persistent (18)F-FDG pathological uptake in the pancreatic lesion.
Treatment of sarcoidosis]	Sarcoidosis is a common disorder with heterogeneous severity. Corticosteroids are the cornerstone of its treatment and allow a disease remission but only with a suspensive effect. Immunosuppressive drugs, hydroxychloroquine and infliximab may be useful in some patients. Half of the patients recover spontaneously without any treatment. In the remaining patients, a treatment is necessary either at presentation or during the follow-up in the presence of a disease flare. Treatment duration should be of at least 12 months. The main indications of a systemic treatment include ophthalmologic, neurologic, cardiovascular, renal, laryngeal involvements, severe pulmonary manifestations, lupus pernio and marked hypercalcaemia. Initially, patients should receive prednisone or prednisolone at 0.5 to 1 mg/kg daily for 6 to 12 weeks to obtain a complete remission, and then followed by a gradual dose reduction every 6 to 12 weeks. After treatment completion, a 36-month duration monitoring is warranted to confirm recovery. Low-dose methotrexate and azathioprine are the most useful immunosuppressive drugs and are indicated in patients with of failure or contra-indication of corticosteroids or in those patients who needs a long term prednisone dose higher than 10 mg daily to control the sarcoidosis. Cyclophosphamide used is severe neurologic or heart involvement that is resistant to corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive drugs. Hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine are indicated in extensive skin lesions or as corticosteroids sparing agents. Infliximab can be useful in some severe sarcoidosis patients refractory to classical treatment, except for cardiac involvement. Topical corticosteroids can be used for limited skin involvement, anterior uveitis or cough. In the future, a more individualized treatment could be drawn from pharmacogenetic studies. The key point remains the availability of etiologic or innovative drugs for sarcoidosis refractory to currently available therapy.
Orbital sarcoidosis treated with hydroxychloroquine.	We report a case of orbital sarcoidosis with extraocular muscle and orbital fat involvement that did not respond to oral corticosteroid treatment, but was successfully treated with oral hydroxychloroquine. There were no side effects or disease recurrence. To our knowledge, anti-malarial therapy for isolated orbital sarcoidosis has not been reported in the literature.
Quercetin reduces markers of oxidative stress and inflammation in sarcoidosis.	Oxidative stress and low antioxidant levels are implicated in the aetiology of sarcoidosis, an inflammatory disease. Quercetin is a potent dietary antioxidant that also displays anti-inflammatory activities. Consequently, the aim is to examine the effect of quercetin supplementation on markers of oxidative stress and inflammation in sarcoidosis.
Rapid improvement of osseous sarcoidosis after the treatment of pulmonary aspergillosis by itraconazole.	Osseous sarcoidosis is relatively uncommon, and treatment with corticosteroids is not always effective. Moreover, patients with an advanced stage of pulmonary sarcoidosis are sometimes infected with aspergillus in the cavities of the pulmonary lesions, and long-term use of corticosteroids should be prohibited to prevent the development of fatal invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. Here, we described a unique case of osseous sarcoidosis with pulmonary aspergillosis, showing a rapid improvement of the osseous symptoms just after the administration of the antifungal agent, itraconazole. Itraconazole is likely to become a candidate among new therapeutic agents for osseous sarcoidosis.
Refractory multisystem sarcoidosis responding to infliximab therapy.	Chronic progressive multisystem granulomatous disease is seen in 10-30% of patients with sarcoidosis and can result in end organ damage. Corticosteroids are the mainstay of treatment with the addition of cytotoxic agents in severe cases. Some patients are refractory to such treatment and, therefore, management is a challenge. There is currently limited evidence for biological agents such as infliximab, a monoclonal anti-tumor necrosis factor-α antibody in the treatment of multisystem sarcoidosis. We report outcomes of three patients with extensive multisystem sarcoidosis refractory to conventional treatment and treated at our center. Clinical assessment and radiographic imaging were used to assess the response to infliximab treatment. Infliximab therapy induced clinical remission in all three patients, and this clinical response correlated with radiographic evidence of the resolution of granulomatous disease. Serum ACE level was reduced in all cases, and daily steroid dosage was reduced. We propose that infliximab can be an effective treatment in patients with multisystem complex sarcoidosis refractory to conventional drug therapy and can result in sustained clinical remission. Our experience supports the urgent need for randomized controlled clinical trials of anti-TNF therapy in refractory systemic sarcoidosis.
Sudden reversible pacemaker failure in a patient with cardiac sarcoidosis: an unfortunate case of ventricular septal pacing.	We report a case of sudden marked deterioration of ventricular stimulation threshold resulting in pacemaker failure 16 months after a ventricular septal lead implantation for atrioventricular block. Echocardiography revealed septal wall thinning at the electrode-tissue interface, which was not detected pre-operatively. Endomyocardial biopsy confirmed cardiac sarcoidosis. The increased threshold was reversible with prednisolone.
Thalidomide for improving cutaneous and pulmonary sarcoidosis in patients resistant or with contraindications to corticosteroids.	Limited data report thalidomide improves cutaneous sarcoidosis; no benefit has been reported for pulmonary localization.
Multinational evidence-based World Association of Sarcoidosis and Other Granulomatous Disorders recommendations for the use of methotrexate in sarcoidosis: integrating systematic literature research and expert opinion of sarcoidologists worldwide.	Although glucocorticosteroids are considered the first-line treatment in sarcoidosis, refractory cases require alternatives, such as methotrexate (MTX). The aim of this study was to develop, on behalf of the World Association of Sarcoidosis and Other Granulomatous Disorders (WASOG), multinational evidence-based recommendations for the use of MTX in sarcoidosis for routine clinical practice.
Sarcoidosis as a systemic disease.	Sarcoidosis is a systemic disease, where for the abnormal localized collections of chronic inflammatory cells, the granuloma is cardinal, which may result in the formation of nodule(s) in the tissue of any organ of the body, with lungs and lymph nodes involvement being the most common. The granulomas are nonnecrotizing. The disease may either be asymptomatic or chronic. Its onset is gradual and may improve or clear up spontaneously. Clinical features of specific and nonspecific cutaneous lesions are described, emphasizing their role as a prelude to its systemic manifestations, afflicting respiratory, liver, spleen, musculoskeletal, ocular, cardiac, and neurologic systems. The salient briefs of diagnostic procedures are outlined, in addition to historical background and etiopathogenesis. Several currently available treatment modalities are outlined for instant reference. 
The effect of prednisolone on the functional status of phagocytic cells in the peripheral blood of patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis]	An immunological study was carried out of 51 patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis. Two groups of patients were singled out: receiving and not receiving glucocorticoid treatment (prednisolone: 0.3 mg/kg of body weight). It was found that patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis revealed changes of the functional state of neutrophils and monocytes of the peripheral blood manifested in a reduction of their absorptive capacity, number of rosette-forming cells, adhesiveness of neutrophils, increase of oxygen-dependent metabolism, production of lysozyme by neutrophils. Prednisolone treatment effected the state of neutrophils manifested in a reduced acid phosphatase activity; the production of lysozyme increased, the absorptive capacity normalized.
Serum angiotensin-converting enzyme (SACE) activity as an indicator of total body granuloma load and prognosis in sarcoidosis.	The relationship between the level of serum angiotensin converting enzyme (SACE) and the total body granuloma load in patients with sarcoidosis was studied in two groups using SACE levels and total body gallium67 scans. The study group consisted of 22 patients with SACE levels greater than or equal to 100 U/ml (EH-SACE group) and the control group consisted of 24 patients consecutively diagnosed to have sarcoidosis in a one year period with SACE level of less than 80 U/ml. The average number of organs involved in the EH-SACE group was 3.9 +/- 1 compared to 2.3 +/- 1 in the control group (p less than 0.0001). The incidence of extra pulmonary organ involvement in the EH-SACE group was 2.2 +/- 1 organs compared to 1.0 + 0.8 in the control group (p less than 0.0002). The SACE level was correlated with the number of organs involved for all patients with sarcoidosis (r = .55; p less than .0001). Following corticosteroid therapy for 39 +/- 41 weeks the SACE dropped to 64 +/- 45 units in the EH-SACE group. But it took only 13 +/- 10 weeks to normalize the SACE level to 27 +/- 9 units in the control group. The EH-SACE group patients were followed for 114 +/- 64 weeks and 73% of them still have active sarcoidosis requiring repeated cycles of corticosteroid therapy, while after 42 +/- 23 weeks of follow up only 10% of patients from the control group were still on therapy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cardiac sarcoidosis: response to steroids and transplantation.	From 1976 to 1986, six cases of cardiac sarcoidosis have been documented by myocardial biopsy in three of five instances; on examination of the explanted heart after transplantation in two, and at autopsy in one patient. Right ventricular end-diastolic pressure was elevated in all four patients with right ventricular involvement with sarcoidosis. Of three patients treated with steroids, improvement in ventricular function and decrease in arrhythmia occurred in two, whereas failure to respond led to transplantation in the other patient. Two further patients have undergone heart transplantation, one for resistant ventricular arrhythmia and the other for congestive heart failure. No recurrence of sarcoidosis has occurred in the grafts. Because two of five patients had sarcoidosis diagnosed on gross examination, a negative endomyocardial biopsy does not exclude the diagnosis of myocardial sarcoidosis, which should therefore be pursued in the setting of unexplained heart failure, conduction abnormalities, and ventricular arrhythmia, particularly when right ventricular end-diastolic pressure is raised. Steroids may result in improvement in some patients even in the presence of severe morphological damage. Heart transplantation may be performed without increased risk of recurrence of sarcoidosis.
Myocardial sarcoidosis unresponsive to steroids. Treatment with cyclophosphamide.	Sarcoidosis affecting the pleura, pericardium, and myocardium is described in a patient who demonstrated continued disease activity while on therapy with high-dose steroids. Cyclophosphamide was found to be highly effective in suppressing her disease over a period of six years.
Upper respiratory tract involvement in sarcoidosis and its management.	Of some 750 sarcoidosis patients, 27 were found to have involvement of their nasal mucosa. Most had multisystem disease, which was usually chronic. Nasal stuffiness or blockage and crusting were the major symptoms, and were usually present at the first presentation with sarcoidosis. The larynx was involved in five cases. The Kveim test was positive in twelve of the fourteen patients in whom it was performed, serum angiotensin converting enzyme was frequently elevated and sinus radiographs were often abnormal. Topical medication improved symptoms in some patients, but the majority required systemic corticosteroids. It was possible to withdraw medication completely after seven years in only one patient. Relapse was encountered during reduction of dosage in other patients. Random biopsy of macroscopically normal nasal mucosa did not yield histological support for a diagnosis of sarcoidosis in twelve out of thirteen patients, but upper respiratory tract lymphoid tissue may contain granulomas in patients with sarcoidosis.
The effects of chloroquine on serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D and calcium metabolism in sarcoidosis.	Although corticosteroids are effective in the treatment of hypercalciuria and hypercalcemia in chronic sarcoidosis, complications of their long-term use frequently limit therapy. We studied the efficacy of chloroquine in two patients with sarcoidosis who were unable to tolerate the dosage of corticosteroids required to control hypercalciuria and prevent the formation of renal stones. Over a three-year period, each patient received a 6-month and a 10-month course of oral chloroquine phosphate (500 mg per day) while continuing to receive corticosteroids at a fixed dose. Chloroquine therapy was associated with a significant reduction in levels of serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH)2D) and urinary calcium. We observed a direct correlation between serum 1,25-(OH)2D levels and 24-hour urinary calcium excretion, supporting the hypothesis that excessive serum 1,25-(OH)2D is responsible for the hypercalciuria in sarcoidosis. Serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-(OH)D) did not change with therapy, suggesting that chloroquine may act by inhibiting the conversion of 25-(OH)D to 1,25-(OH)2D. Current dosage guidelines and ophthalmologic-surveillance techniques, which allow chloroquine to be administered with little risk of retinopathy, should permit an expanded role for this agent in the treatment of the calcium abnormalities of sarcoidosis.
Utility of endomyocardial biopsy in the diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis.	Cardiac involvement in sarcoidosis can be demonstrated in about 25 percent of autopsied cases, but antemortem diagnosis is uncommon. To evaluate the usefulness of the endomyocardial biopsy in detecting cardiac sarcoid disease, the medical records of ten patients with sarcoidosis who underwent endomyocardial biopsy for routine clinical indications were reviewed. The patients fell into two groups: patients with known sarcoidosis and presumed cardiac involvement (n = 8), and patients in whom the biopsy finding of sarcoid disease was unexpected (n = 2). Four patients in the first group had positive endomyocardial biopsy results (granulomas and/or marked mononuclear cell infiltrate) and were treated with glucocorticoid therapy with improvement in three; the fourth was disabled with lung disease. The diagnoses of three other patients were revised on the basis of the biopsy results; their therapy was tailored accordingly. The remaining patient may represent a false-negative biopsy result, based on clinical criteria. The two patients in the second group presented with symptomatic ventricular tachycardia and restrictive cardiomyopathy respectively, and in neither case was sarcoidosis considered prior to biopsy results. Overall, a change in treatment strategy based on biopsy results occurred in eight of ten cases. Thus, endomyocardial biopsy is useful for the diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis; treatment strategies may be affected by biopsy findings; and rarely, endomyocardial biopsy can provide the first clinical evidence of sarcoid disease that is otherwise occult.
Value of serial measurement of serum angiotensin converting enzyme in the management of sarcoidosis.	Serial serum samples from 35 patients with histologically proved sarcoidosis were measured for angiotensin converting enzyme activity. The serum angiotensin converting enzyme (SACE) activity was compared with the clinical activity of sarcoidosis. In both the treated and untreated group, the SACE activity closely paralleled the clinical status. There was agreement between SACE index and clinical index in 81 of 101 paired observations. It appears that SACE activity is a good reflection of granulomatous activity in sarcoidosis. Once the decision has been made to treat sarcoidosis, serial SACE determinations are helpful in monitoring the dose and duration of therapy with corticosteroids.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme in sarcoid perivasculitis.	A young woman was treated with topical and oral steroids for sarcoidosis manifested by systemic symptoms, involvement of the respiratory and musculoskeletal systems, and anterior uveitis. Her symptoms, ocular findings, pulmonary function, and serum angiotensin-converting enzyme level all improved in response to therapy. After tapering the steroid dosage retinal perivasculitis developed associated with a small but significant elevation of the serum angiotensin-converting enzyme level. Increasing the dosage of oral steroids resulted in prompt resolution of her retinal findings but no change in the level of the serum angiotensin-converting enzyme. This suggests that changes in the serum angiotensin-converting enzyme level may not parallel the course of ocular sarcoidosis limited to the posterior segment.
Acute myeloblastic leukaemia in sarcoidosis treated with methotrexate.	A 60-year-old man with sarcoidosis of skin and knee joints was treated with prednisone and methotrexate (MTX). A total of 590 mg MTX was given over two periods each of 3 months duration. 4 1/2 years after the first MTX dose he developed acute myeloid leukaemia. Only one more case of acture myeloid leukaemia following MTX treatment for a benign disease has been described, and until further cases have been reported the correlation might be considered a matter of simple coincidence.
Pulmonary sarcoidosis. Long-term follow-up of the effects of steroid therapy.	Fifteen years ago we began a prospective study using alternate case treatment with prednisone in patients with pulmonary function abnormalities due to sarcoidosis. Twenty-five patients were divided into treatment and control groups that were similar in sex, age, race, degree of pulmonary dysfunction, and duration of disease. Evaluation included complete spirometric studies, single-breath carbon monoxide diffusion capacity, and arterial blood gases. Follow-up studies at six months, one to two years, and ten to 15 years show no difference between the treated and untreated groups. Improvement or deterioration in pulmonary function of individual patients in the treated group was reflected in the control group, even in those patients with a diffusing capacity and forced vital capacity less than 65 percent of predicted. Data from this long-term study fail to show any benefit of short-term use of steroids in therapy for pulmonary sarcoidosis.
Antemortem diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis by abnormal uptake of 201Tl in bilateral hilar lymph nodes.	The antemortem diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis is extremely difficult. We present a patient with congestive heart failure and cardiomyopathy of unknown cause who exhibited an abnormal accumulation of 201Tl in both hilar lymph nodes in addition to a perfusion defect of the left ventricular myocardium. The findings ultimately led to a diagnosis of myocardial sarcoidosis, which was treated successfully with prednisolone. Although such uptake in the hilar nodes has rarely been reported previously, and the mechanism is not known, this was a remarkable finding in diagnosing cardiac sarcoidosis in this case. When the abnormal hilar lymph nodes uptake of 201Tl is combined with the defect in the left ventricular myocardium, we should take cardiac sarcoidosis into consideration as the cause of secondary cardiomyopathy.
Sarcoidosis: is therapy effective?	Treatment of sarcoidosis is controversial. The clinical expression and natural history of sarcoidosis is variable, and spontaneous remissions occur in up to 60% of patients. The decision to treat (or withhold treatment) is often difficult. Corticosteroids, immunosuppressive/cytotoxic, and immunomodulatory agents are used to treat chronic or progressive sarcoidosis, but prospective, randomized trials assessing efficacy of these agents are lacking. Toxicities associated with therapy may be substantial, particularly when high dosages are used. We review the pharmacologic agents used to treat sarcoidosis, toxicities associated with treatment, and appropriate use and monitoring of these therapeutic modalities.
