Emergency medical training in the 82d Airborne Division. The Gulf War experience.	The 82d Airborne Division, as the Army's worldwide contingency division, places unique demands on its medical personnel. This was true particularly during Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm in 1990-1991. An unprecedented emergency medical training program was carried out in preparation for the Gulf War. All levels of expertise were involved: non-medical Combat Lifesavers, medics, physician assistants, and physicians. Courses provided included Combat Lifesaver provider and refresher training, Basic Trauma Life Support (BTLS) provider and instructor training, Chemical Casualty courses, and a Combat Surgical Skills course. Approximately 736 personnel, including 80 Saudi and allied physicians and medics, participated in these courses. Confidence and competence in handling war casualties at all levels was enhanced greatly. Prepackaged courses such as BTLS enabled the rapid training of large numbers of medical personnel under challenging conditions.
Asthma in Saudi Arabia: is the system appropriate for optimal primary care?	The objective of the study was to assess the suitability of the structure of Primary Health Care Centers to cater to the needs of patients with asthma. Standards for optimal care were defined by the authors. The worst deficiencies identified were in the availability peak flow meters, inhaler devices and antiinflammatory drugs. Assessment of the optimal structure for asthma care was found to demonstrate variance with national standards. More effort is recommended in central development of guidelines. This assessment can be used to measure future changes in asthma care.
Working overseas: a bargain from which all sides gain.	The advantages of obtaining experience outside one's own health care system are not always fully appreciated. Some employers and senior officers tend to be discouraging. Paul Cooper, district administrator, East Roding HD, and consultant adviser on health planning to the Crown Agents, follows up Pauline Drummond's recent article on working outside the NHS, with a look at the advantages to the individual and the system of a spell of work overseas.
Designing a competency-based nursing practice model in a multicultural setting.	Cultural diversity of patients and staff has challenged nurse educators to create new culturally sensitive learning environments and to participate in the design of systems that ensure standards of care for patients and standards of performance for nurses are met. Performance expectations require nurses to render age-specific, culturally congruent nursing care and function as integral members of interdisciplinary, multicultural healthcare teams. In this article the author describes the development of a Competency-based Nursing Practice Model in a multicultural setting and explores the role of the staff development educator throughout the design process.
The standardization of the Denver Developmental Screening Test on Arab children from the Middle East and north Africa.	A total of 936 children of Arab ethnic origin and culture were tested for the purpose of the standardization of the Denver Developmental Screening Test (DDST) on children from the Middle East and North Africa. There were 457 males and 479 females included in the study, with a race distribution of 216 white, 96 black, and 624 of mixed racial origin. The sample was divided into three age groups, with the age-range all-inclusive being from birth to six years. Five social classes were included. Accordingly, a new DDST screening form was designed and presented for the population studied. Age norms of developmental milestones on the personal-social, fine motor-adaptive, language, and gross motor skills are presented here.
Perceptions on the influence of cost issues on quality improvement initiatives: a survey of Saudi health care managers.	To determine (i) the cost issues which Saudi health care managers perceive to influence overall quality improvement initiatives, and (ii) the relationship between health care managers' satisfaction with such initiatives and their perceptions regarding the influence of different cost issues on the overall quality improvement initiatives.
New clerodane diterpenoid and flavonol-3-methyl ethers from Dodonaea viscosa.	Chromatographic separation of the extract of the aerial parts of Dodonaea viscosa L. (family Sapindaceae) afforded beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol, the flavone acacetin-7-methyl ether, the flavonol-3-methyl ethers 4',5,7-trihydroxy-3,6-dimethoxyflavone and penduletin, as well as a new clerodane diterpenoid which was identified by spectral means as 15,16-epoxy-5,9-diepicleroda-3,13(16),14-trien-20,19-olide.
Correlation between oral parafunction and temporomandibular disorders and emotional status among saudi children.	Studies on association between temporomandibular disorders and oral parafunction in preschool children are few. The aim of the present study is to investigate the relationship between the subjective and objective signs and symptoms of temporomandibular disorders (TMD), oral parafunction and emotional status in preschool children. The study is based on a clinical examination and questionnaire. Five hundred and two Saudi children aged 3 to 7 years were examined for different signs and symptoms of TMD. In addition, the parents of the children were given a questionnaire to investigate the existence of oral parafunction and evaluate the emotional status of children. The results of the study showed significant association between attrition and temporomandibular joint (TMJ) pain, muscle tenderness and restricted opening, (P Values were 0.008, 0.019, 0.037 respectively). Significant association was found between habit of grinding and pain, while eating or opening the mouth (P<0.012). Significant association was found between emotional status and multiple signs and symptoms of TMJ tenderness, TMJ pain and muscle tenderness (P<0.042). Significant association was found between emotional status and pain, while eating or opening of the mouth (P<0.048). Close to positive association was found between oral parafunction and jaw lock. The association between TMD and oral parafunction as well as emotional status should direct the attention of the dentist to the importance of considering the emotional status, oral parafunction and TMD when examining and formulating treatment plan for the child patient.
Report on the levels of cadmium, lead, and mercury in imported rice grain samples.	In an attempt to know whether highly consumed food might contribute to metal exposure, we analyzed cadmium, lead, and mercury in 27 rice grain samples commonly consumed in Saudi Arabia by atomic absorption spectrometry after acid digestion. The mean concentrations and ranges of cadmium, lead, and mercury in tested rice samples were 20.261 (range <DL-178.026 microg/kg), 134.819 (range 23.1-1529.0 microg/kg), and 3.186 (range <DL-43.573 microg/kg), respectively. The results showed high concentrations of metals and in some cases exceeded the Provisional Tolerance Weekly Intake (PTWI) recommended by FAO/WHO. It was also noted that different rice grain samples had varying concentrations of these metals. Because the bulk of literature warns against the cumulative effects of prolonged heavy metal exposure, regular consumption of rice by local populations might pose potential health problems.
A study on radiographic repeat rate data of several hospitals in Jeddah.	Radiographic repeat rate data in diagnostic radiology in King Fahad Hospital (KFH), King Abdulaziz Hospital (KAH), and Maternity and Children Hospital (MCH) in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, have been studied. The study provided valuable information to suggest preventive measures to reduce repeats. The variables included in the study are exposure techniques, examination types, total number of films used, number of films repeated, the film sizes, gender, the age groups of the patients, and reason for repetition. The total number of examinations in all three hospitals is 6001 using 8887 films on 5412 patients. The average repeat rate was 7.93%, where the individual hospital repeat rates were 9.57% in the MCH, 7.84% in KAH, and 7.44% in KFH. The repeat rate for children and infants was found to be undesirable. The quality assurance (QA) programme can effectively reduce the unnecessary exposure and can identify the cause of the exposure. The overexposure, underexposure, and position fault were the foremost contributors for repeats and constitute 32.91%, 28.94%, and 22.98% of the total respectively. The QA study identified that human error and equipment malfunction are the major contributors to these causes of repeats. The highest repetition rate was for pelvis, 13.64%, followed by skull, 11.59%, and abdomen, 10.41%. It is estimated that the total area of wasted film in all three hospitals is 74.3 m2. As per the average repeat rate, the cost of repeat films in the entire kingdom per year has been projected to be about 1.82 million US dollars (SR 6.83 million) in the government hospitals only. Based on the findings of this study a set of recommendations have been prescribed for the radiology department to reduce the repeat rate and to improve the safety culture.
Phospholipid fatty acids and sterols of two Cinachyrella sponges from the Saudi Arabian Red Sea: comparison with Cinachyrella species from other origins.	Phospholipid class compositions, fatty acids and sterols of the sponges Cinachyrella alloclada and C. kükenthali from the Saudi Arabian Red Sea were studied and compared with previous results for other Cinachyrella spp. collected in Senegal (East Atlantic) and New Caledonia (West Pacific). More than 50 fatty acids were identified as methyl esters and N-acyl pyrrolidides in each phospholipid mixture by GC/MS. Six fatty acids not hitherto found in nature were identified, namely 17-methyltetracosanoic in C. kükenthali and 18-methyltetracosanoic, 18-methylpentacosanoic, 18-methylhexacosanoic, 18,24-dimethyl-hexacosanoic and 6-bromo-5,9-nonacosadienoic acids in C. alloclada. Approximately 20 Delta 5,9 unsaturated fatty acids were found, including three 6-brominated acids. The presence of bacteria was evidenced by the relatively high proportions of phosphatidylglycerol and high levels of branched short-chain fatty acids. A total of 20 free 3beta-hydroxysterols were found by GC/MS, including clerosterol in relatively high amounts and gorgosterol in low amounts. The latter sterol has not been reported to date in a sponge. Comparisons with Cinachyrella species from other geographical areas show marked differences for both phospholipid fatty acid and sterol compositions.
The role of FNA in the initial management of thyroid lesions: 7-year experience in a district general hospital.	Fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology plays a major role in the diagnosis of the thyroid lesions in university hospitals and tertiary referral institutions. Our aim was to find out if this was possible in small district hospitals with limited resources. Over a 7-year period, from October 1994 to April 2002, 303 patients with thyroid swellings underwent FNA with an overall adequacy rate of 97.7%. FNAs were performed specifically by the pathologists, so that our inadequacy rate, 2.3% was far lower than 11-29% reported elsewhere. The FNA findings were compared with subsequent histology results in 67 cases. The diagnosis of benign and neoplastic lesions was predicted accurately by FNA in 93% and 94.7% of cases, respectively. The latter reached 100% if results of FNA in follicular neoplasms were excluded. Sensitivity and specificity were 85.6% and 97.6%, respectively, which is comparable with results from tertiary institutions. The commonest thyroid lesions in our hospital were nodular goitre (52.4%), followed by thyroiditis (17.6%) and neoplasia (13.9%). We conclude that, with the availability of appropriate personnel, FNA is feasible as the major modality in district general hospitals. FNA in follicular lesions remains challenging but could be overcome in part by recognizing the criteria to differentiate follicular variant of papillary carcinoma and other follicular proliferations. Aspiration, smearing, staining and interpretation should be left to pathologists or other well-trained personnel to ensure good quality and consistency.
Power bases and attribution in three cultures.	The authors used a Saudi context to verify the cross-cultural generality of findings (A. Rodrigues & K. L. Lloyd, 1998) reported for U.S. and Brazilian samples in which compliant behavior caused by reward, informational, and referent influences was perceived as more controllable and more internal than compliant behavior resulting from legitimate, expert, and coercive influences. This differential attribution led, in turn, to different affective and behavioral responses. In the present study, cognitive and affective reactions of Saudi students were measured with regard to compliant behavior (leading to a good outcome or a bad outcome) caused by each of the 6 bases of power described by B. H. Raven (1965). As expected, power bases had significant effects. However, when the outcome of the compliant behavior was bad, compliant behavior caused by a coercive influence led to the perception of more internality and controllability. Also--and not found in previous studies--the perception of less internality and controllability of compliant behavior was caused by an informational influence. Findings are discussed in the light of related research and Saudi cultural characteristics.
A survey of patients attitude toward low back surgery in a major center in Saudi Arabia.	Similar to any other invasive procedure, low back surgery has potential complications. These potential complications lead many patients to refuse the surgery when it is indicated. The aim of this study was to evaluate patient's attitude toward low back surgery and identify factors that might influence their decision.
Comparison of the growth standards between Saudi and American children aged 0-5 years.	To compare the national growth monitoring data with the National Centre for Health Statistics (NCHS) growth standards, which is currently used in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA).
Prostate specific antigen reference ranges in Saudi men.	The aim of this study is to find out the age-specific and population-specific values of prostate specific antigen (PSA) among Saudi men. Normal values for different age groups between 40 and 89 years will be obtained.
Polytetrafluoroethylene use for above-knee femoropopliteal bypass in critical limb ischemia.	The question of the best material for above-knee femoropopliteal bypass (polytetrafluoroethylene [PTFE] versus vein) continues to be controversial. The aim of this study was to evaluate our results of using PTFE in above knee femoropopliteal bypass and to determine the predictors which affect graft patency.
Resource availability for care of hypertensives at primary health settings in Southwestern Saudi Arabia.	To assess the availability of resources required for hypertension care at primary health care centers in Aseer region, Southwestern Saudi Arabia.
Awareness of hormonal replacement therapy among females attending primary health care centers in Western Saudi Arabia.	To measure the awareness and the associations between knowledge, personal characteristics, decision making and intention to use hormonal replacement therapy (HRT) among women attending the Primary Health Care (PHC) Centers, Jeddah, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Prescribing for asthmatic children in primary care. Are we following guidelines?	Guidelines for asthma management have been developed both locally and internationally. The aim of this study was to evaluate the adherence of primary care physicians in the National Guard Iskan Primary Care Center to these guidelines.
Human genetics information on the Web.	The genetics revolution is in full swing, especially following the recent release of the complete human genome sequence which will change forever the world in which we live by providing potential for new drugs and therapies and the means of preventing inherited genetic diseases. As a result of establishing the whole human genome sequence and the associated media publicity, the general public have become familiar with and more eager to learn about the subject of genetics and its potential impact on both their own lives and those of their families. One of the main sources of information available to the public today is the World Wide Web. Vast amounts of information are contained in the numerous websites available through the Internet. However, finding the right information can be very tedious, especially with the huge number of websites currently available. This article guides the public to key websites and webpages that cover information on genetics. All sites listed here have been tested and proven to be beneficial and informative.
Factors influencing patient choice of hospitals in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.	This study examined factors considered important in choosing a hospital. The sample consisted of 303 respondents selected from five randomly selected primary health care centres. The percentages of males, highly educated, high-income level, elder and private sector employees was higher in those choosing private sector hospitals, while marital status did not relate to type of hospital. The principal component analysis identified six factors accounting for 64% of the total variance. The most important component was 'medical services' accounting for 28% of the total variance. Stepwise discriminant analysis revealed that the main factors associated with choosing a hospital were medical services, accessibility, age, sex and education. Little importance was given to income and occupation. Future recommendations outline the need for consumers' perceptions, attitudes, suggestions and concerns to be taken into consideration when marketing the services to be provided.
Histopathological changes in the wall of varicose veins.	Vein wall distensibility is controlled by collagen, elastin and smooth muscle cells. However, contradicting evidence exists on the connective tissue concentration and smooth muscle pathology in varicose veins.
A case of percutaneous industrial methanol toxicity.	Methanol (CH3OH) is a chemical feedstock of increasing importance as well as a commonly used solvent. In the early 1980s methanol production was introduced at a new petrochemical complex in the Saudi port of Jubail. A case is presented of a consultant supervising tank cleaning prior to methanol loading. He wore positive pressure breathing apparatus but no protective clothing. After 2-3 hours working in the confined space of the tank, he worked on deck and continued to wear his methanol-soaked clothing which eventually dried out. Visual symptoms of acute methanol toxicity presented some 8 hours after exposure. The appropriate treatment (with ethanol provided by the ship bond) was carried out in hospital and the individual recovered completely. Most reported cases of methanol toxicity are social in origin, arising from ingestion. This particular case, though unusual, does present some interesting lessons.
Antibacterial activity of the new quinolone CI-960 (PD 127391) against clinical isolates at a major tertiary care center in Saudi Arabia.	The antibacterial activity of the new fluoroquinolone CI-960 (PD 127391) was evaluated against 1,162 clinical isolates and compared with other quinolones and various commonly used antibiotics. CI-960 was highly effective against members of Enterobacteriaceae inhibiting 626 of the 629 isolates at a less than or equal to 0.03 to 0.12 microgram/ml concentration. All the 305 isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Xanthomona maltophilia, and Acinetobacter were susceptible to CI-960. It was the only effective drug against 10 multi-resistant isolates of pseudomonads and Acinetobacter. All staphylococci, including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, were inhibited by less than or equal to 0.03-0.5 microgram/ml of CI-960. Like other drugs of its class, it had little activity against enterococci.
Microbiology of postoperative wound infection: a prospective study of 1770 wounds.	A prospective study of postoperative wound infection was carried out over a 12-month period. Intra-operative swabs from the patients' anterior nares, the opened viscus and parietes were cultured using standard bacteriological techniques. Of the 1770 wounds studied, 167 (9.4%) became infected. Wound infection rates, according to clinical wound types, were clean 5.9%, clean-contaminated 10.7%, contaminated 24.3% and dirty 52.9%. The figures according to microbiological wound types were clean 4.7%, and potentially, lightly and heavily contaminated 15.3%, 22.1% and 30.2% respectively. The commonest causative organisms were Staphylococcus aureus 23.7%, Escherichia coli 16.9%, Staphylococcus epidermidis 13.5% and Pseudomonas aeruginosa 13.0%. When isolated intra-operatively, Enterobacter spp., Proteus spp., Klebsiella spp. and P. aeruginosa appeared to have a high probability of causing postoperative wound infection, but the intra-operative isolation of Bacteroides sp. was a poor predictor of subsequent wound infection.
Postoperative wound infection at a university hospital in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.	A prospective study was made of 1418 surgical wounds at the 250-bed King Abdulaziz University Hospital in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Daily examinations of wounds, cultures of all suspicious wounds and 28 days outpatient clinic follow-up were performed. The overall infection rate was 9%. The infection rate after clean surgery was 9.5%. High rates of infections were noted after colon resection (19%), caesarean section (19%), abdominal hysterectomy (10%) and cholecystectomy (10%). The infection rates after appendectomy, mastectomy and herniorrhaphy were approximately 7%. A lower rate of infection was seen after thyroidectomy (2%). The incidence of infection was significantly related to pre-operative stay in hospital and to duration of operation.
Unknown dysmorphic syndromes and development delay in Saudi Arabia.	Forty-four Saudi Arabian patients with unknown dysmorphic syndromes were studied with respect to their level of cognitive delay. The relationship between such delay and particular patterns of dysmorphic features, as well as various demographic and historical data, were also investigated. Prognostication and genetic counseling are difficult for this group because little is known about morbidity or other factors. These concerns, along with broader issues, stimulated this study. Significant associations were found between level of cognitive function and consanguinity, abnormal motor and language milestones, and abnormal electroencephalograms. No significant relationship was found between various dysmorphic feature clusters and measured cognition. Concerns were expressed about demands on family and community for these children, as well as possible larger issues in this heavily consanguineous society. Further research, including epidemiologic studies, was recommended.
Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.	The clinical features and outcome of disease in 14 cases of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) diagnosed at the King Khalid University Hospital, Riyadh during an 8-year period are similar to those described elsewhere. Therapy was associated with arrest of deterioration for 2.5 years in one patient, and with survival after diagnosis for 2-7 years in four others. Many of the cases had initial misdiagnoses because of the frequently bizarre modes of presentation. It is thought that many more cases of SSPE occur in Saudi Arabia and also in many other tropical countries than are currently recognized. The establishment of national SSPE registries is advocated to improve early identification and management of cases.
Knowledge, attitudes and practices regarding blood donation among the Saudi population.	To assess the knowledge, attitude and practice regarding blood donation among the Saudi population. Based on this study, an effective strategy can be made regarding motivation and recruitment of voluntary non-remunerated blood donors in future.
Microbial, nutritional and physical quality of commercial and hospital prepared tube feedings in Saudi Arabia.	Blenderized tube feedings (BTF) may present disadvantages over commercially prepared formulas (CPF). This study compares the microbial safety, nutritional content, and physical properties of BTF versus CPF.
Role of HbA1c in management of diabetes mellitus.	To represent that glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) is not requested by the physicians in spite of its critical importance in the monitoring of glycemic control and prediction of complications due to diabetes.
Bone mineral density and bone scintigraphy in adult Saudi female patients with osteomalacia.	This prospective study was conducted to demonstrate the role of bone mineral density (BMD) and bone scan in the management of adult Saudi female patients with established diagnosis of osteomalacia.
The characteristics of very short stay ICU admissions and implications for optimizing ICU resource utilization: the Saudi experience.	Patients with very short stays (<24 hours) in intensive care units (ICUs) constitute a distinct group with a high turnover rate and a unique patient mix. Our aim was to study their characteristics with the aim of developing strategic approaches for better and more appropriate utilization of ICU resources.
Pregnancy after preimplantation genetic diagnosis for Sanjad-Sakati syndrome.	Sanjad-Sakati syndrome (SSS) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by congenital hypoparathyroidism, growth and mental retardation. In Saudi Arabia, the disease is caused by a deletion of 12 bp (155-166nt) in the tubulin-specific chaperone E gene. In a family with two affected siblings with SSS, preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) was performed. Fluorescent PCR (F-PCR) was utilized to check the heterozygosity and the homozygosity status of the parents and the affected children, respectively. F-PCR was then optimized for single-cell analysis by using peripheral blood lymphocytes. The patient underwent a cycle with intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection. A total of 11 embryos were obtained and biopsied. There were five heterozygous, three homozygous affected and three normal embryos. One heterozygous and one normal embryo were transferred because of their very good quality (morula). A singleton pregnancy was obtained, and amniosynthesis confirmed the presence of the heterozygous fetus. These results show for the first time, the feasibility of PGD for SSS.
Appropriateness of requests for therapeutic drug monitoring of antiepileptic drugs: the experience in southwestern Saudi Arabia.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate request forms of therapeutic drug monitoring of antiepileptic drugs for appropriateness criteria according to published data. Request forms received by the laboratory were sampled as all requests in one day per week on an alternating basis. Drugs monitored were phenytoin (PHT), phenobarbital (PB), carbamazepine (CBZ) and valproic acid (VPA). A total of 420 request forms were collected. Age, gender and weight were provided in 95.5%, 97.1% and 56.9% of request forms, respectively. The diagnosis, seizure type and the indication for therapeutic drug monitoring were provided in 81.6%, 3.2% and 55.5%, respectively. Sampling times were provided in 45% and were considered appropriate in 25.2% of the request forms. The indications for therapeutic drug-monitoring were considered appropriate in 28.6% of the request forms, and only 19.2% of these were appropriately sampled. Only 37.9% of all samples were drawn at steady-state. Serum albumin and creatinine concentrations were lacking in 93.6% and 53.3% of requests, respectively. The potential for drug-drug interactions was detected in 28.6% of all requests. Thus, the information needed for the proper interpretation of therapeutic drug monitoring results and that was provided in the request forms was surprisingly scarce. Most of the appropriateness criteria for therapeutic drug monitoring were not met.
Prevalence of Candida dubliniensis among germ tube-positive yeasts recovered from the respiratory specimens in HIV-negative patients.	The present investigation was conducted to identify Candida dubliniensis, from respiratory specimens, recovered from HIV-negative patients. Over a 7-month period, 75 germ tube and chlamydospore-positive yeasts were screened for C. dubliniensis, using a variety of phenotypic characteristics. Their identification was based on sugar assimilation reactions using API 20 C Aux. A total of seven (9%) isolates recovered from sputum, bronchial lavage and nasopharyngeal aspirate were identified as C. dubliniensis. All the isolates were susceptible to amphotericin B. One isolate each showed resistance to fluconazole and ketoconazole, and two were resistant to itraconazole. A significantly high percentage (43%) of C. dubliniensis showed resistance to flucytosine.
Factor V-Leiden, prothrombin G20210A, and MTHFR C677T mutations among patients with sickle cell disease in Eastern Saudi Arabia.	The prevalence of factor V Leiden, prothrombin G20210A, and MTHFR C677T mutations were investigated among 87 Saudi sickle cell disease (SCD) patients (38 males and 49 females) and 105 healthy controls (65 males and 40 females). The prevalences of factor V Leiden (P = 0.174) and PRT G20210A (P = 0.397) were not different between patients and controls, thereby giving no support to an association of either single-point mutation with SCD. However, an increased prevalence of the MTHFR 677 T/T genotype was seen among patients (8/87) compared to controls (4/105), but this was not statistically significant (P = 0.217; OR = 2.56). This suggested a low impact of inherited hypercoagulability risk factors in the pathogenesis of SCD and/or its complications.
The miswak (chewing stick) and oral health. Studies on oral hygiene practices of urban Saudi Arabians.	The miswak, a traditional chewing stick for cleaning teeth, is made from the plant Salvadora persica. For religious and cultural reasons, miswak use is firmly established and widespread in Saudi Arabia and most other Muslim countries. Only recently has scientific evaluation of the miswak been undertaken. The aims of the thesis were: 1) to explore current oral hygiene habits and oral health awareness among urban Saudi Arabians in relation to age, gender and educational level (papers I and II); 2) to compare mechanical plaque removal and gingival health after miswak use and toothbrushing (paper III); 3) to compare the effect of miswak use and toothbrushing on subgingival plaque microflora (paper IV). In papers I and II, structured interviews were conducted with 1200 regular patients at two centres in the city of Makkah, providing dental care for university and military staff and their families, respectively. Consecutive patients were stratified according to gender and age, into 6 age groups from 10 to 60 years, with 50 male or female subjects in each group at each centre. Oral hygiene habits were correlated with the subjects' age, gender, and educational levels and analysed statistically by a generalized linear model and ANOVA. In papers III and IV, the subjects comprised 15 healthy Saudi Arabian male volunteers aged 21 to 36 years, attending the Dental Center at Al-Noor Specialist Hospital in Makkah City. A single-blind, randomised crossover design was used. The Turesky modified Quigley-Hein plaque and Löe-Silness gingival indices and digital photographs of plaque distribution were recorded in Paper III and in Paper IV plaque was sampled for DNA-testing. Inhibition zones around miswak material were examined on agar plates with Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans and the leukotoxicity of this bacterium was analysed in a bioassay with macrophages +/- miswak extracts (paper IV). In papers I and II, 73% of the subjects used a toothbrush and 65% used a miswak daily. There were significant differences between genders and age groups, and between the centres. Regular miswak use was more prevalent among men (p < 0.01), while women used a toothbrush more often than a miswak (p < 0.05). For the majority (88%) of the individuals, oral hygiene began late, after the age of 7 yrs. Oral hygiene habits were strongly correlated to educational level (p < 0.001). The miswak was preferred by less educated people. Tooth brushing started earlier among the better educated (p < 0.001). In paper III, compared to tooth brushing, use of the miswak resulted in significant reductions in plaque (p < 0.001) and gingival (p < 0.01) indices. In paper IV, A. actinomycetemcomitans was significantly reduced by miswak use (p < 0.05) but not by tooth brushing. These results were supported by the in vitro observations that extracts from S. persica interfered with growth and leukotoxicity of A. actinomycetemcomitans. It was concluded that oral hygiene practice is introduced very late, is strongly correlated to educational level, and that more women prefer toothbrushing to miswak use. It was further concluded that miswak use was at least as effective as toothbrushing for reducing plaque and gingivitis, and that the antimicrobial effect of S. persica is beneficial for prevention/treatment of periodontal disease. There is clearly a need for further oral health education in Saudi Arabia. Because of its close association with Islam, maximum benefits may be achieved by encouraging optimum use of the miswak. Oral hygiene may be improved by complementing traditional miswak use with modern technological developments such as toothbrushing and by tailoring oral hygiene recommendations to educational level.
Hematological findings in male x-ray technicians.	In view of the known health hazards of x-ray radiation, this study focuses on the basic hematological parameters: red blood cells (RBCs), white blood cells (WBCs) and platelets count in x-ray technicians. The aim was to identify the affect of x-ray radiation on blood cell counts in x-ray technicians.
The role of fine needle aspiration cytology and imprint cytology in cervical lymphadenopathy.	To determine the diagnostic accuracy of cervical lymphadenopathy by fine needle aspiration (FNAC) and imprint cytology (IC).
Impact of gestational diabetes on lipid profiling and indices of oxidative stress in maternal and cord plasma.	To study the effect of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) on indices of oxidative stress and lipid profiles in maternal and cord blood samples.
Medical liability. The dilemma of litigations.	Most if not all of the physicians are ill prepared when it comes to facing a medical litigation. Having witnessed that first hand on numerous occasions made me decide to write on this issue to offer some insight and advice on the matter as it is obvious no one is immune in the medical profession. In addition, the number of medical litigation cases is on the rise. There is no doubt that the matter is of great importance not only to doctors, medical and dental students but also to other health care workers.
Maxillary sinus carcinoma. Natural history and outcome.	To assess natural history, treatment outcome and pattern of relapse in patients with maxillary sinus carcinoma.
Intensive behavioral therapy for primary enuresis.	To assess the effect of intensive behavioral therapy on Saudi children with primary enuresis.
The selective conservative management of gunshot injury to the abdomen.	Traditionally, mandatory exploration was the rule for managing penetrating abdominal trauma, but this has begun to change in the recent era. The change first affected stab injuries, in which the conservative approach in appropriate cases has gained wide spread acceptance. Relatively recently, the management of gunshot injuries to the abdomen has been similarly affected, and several reports appeared describing the success of such treatment in selected cases.
Defective repair of UV-induced DNA damage in cultured primary skin fibroblasts from Saudi thyroid cancer patients.	This study was conducted to examine the sensitivity of primary skin fibroblasts from Saudi thyroid cancer (TC) patients to ultraviolet (UV) irradiation. Cell survival was studied by a colony forming assay and DNA repair defects with a host cell reactivation (HCR) assay using UV-irradiated Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV). In addition, p53 gene expression was examined in the same TC cells exhibiting enhanced radiosensitivity. Skin fibroblasts from TC patients (n=4) showed significantly enhanced sensitivity to UV radiation. The average UV dose to reduce survival to 37% of the initial survival (D(37)) value (in Jm(-2)) for fibroblasts from TC patients was 4.6 (3.7-5.6) compared to 7.3 (6.3-8.3) for healthy individuals (n=3). UV-sensitive xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) cells, which were used as positive control, were found to be extremely sensitive with a D(37) value of 0.6 Jm(-2). In a host cell reactivation assay, UV-irradiated HSV was tested for its plaque-forming ability (PFA), by plating infected fibroblasts from TC patients (used as host cells) on African Green Monkey (Vero) kidney cells to form plaques. A significant reduction in the PFA of the UV-irradiated virus (about three fold) on TC cells compared to fibroblasts from the healthy subjects was seen, suggesting a DNA-repair deficiency in the primary fibroblasts of the TC patients. Furthermore, no significant accumulation in radiation-induced p53 expression was observed in cells from the TC patients. Our results, based on a relatively small group of subjects, indicate that Saudi TC patients primary fibroblasts (non-cancerous in nature) may be carriers of cancer-susceptible gene(s) arising from defective DNA repair/processing. These results warrant a larger study to investigate the role of UV-induced bulky DNA damage in thyroid cancer susceptibility.
Measurements of environmental terrestrial gamma radiation average dose rate in three mountainous locations in the western region of Saudi Arabia.	This paper describes measurements of external gamma radiation average dose rate from terrestrial gamma rays 1 m above the ground in three different mountainous locations in the western region of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. These locations are, At-Taif city, Al-Hada village and Ash-Shafa village. CaSO(4):Dy (TLD-900) thermoluminescence dosemeters were used for the detection of terrestrial gamma radiation at 40 different places in the three locations. The values of terrestrial gamma radiation average dose rate measured ranged between 14 and 279 nG h(-1) for the time interval from June 2001 to June 2002. The measured average dose rate varied with the season of the year. The gamma radiation average dose rates were 468, 541 and 781 microGy y(-1) for At-Taif city, Al-Hada village and Ash-Shafa village, respectively. The corresponding average effective dose rates for the three locations were 94, 108 and 156 microSv y(-1), respectively.
Vision examination of children in Riyadh's handicapped children house.	Fifty-eight children with neuromuscular handicap participating in a habilitation program at Riyadh, Saudi Arabia underwent an abbreviated vision examination evaluating their visual status. Manpower, time, language and equipment constraints prevented the performance of routine, complete eye examinations for each child. This initial effort was designed to assess the subjects' vision as well as examination time, space, manpower, and any other unforeseen problems in treating this population. This vision evaluation showed that 63.7 percent had ocular findings, and only 17.2 percent had a history of previous eye examination. Currently, a program of evaluation, training and education is underway to treat these children with motor and social handicaps at the Handicapped Children House. Routine vision examination, more complete than undertaken with this study, should be instituted, incorporating ocular history, external examination, refraction, dilated ophthalmoscopy, slit lamp with further evaluation and treatment of those children with findings.
The challenge of finding donors for living donor liver transplantation in Saudi Arabia.	Organ shortage remains the main limiting factor for expanding liver transplantation (LT) in Saudi Arabia. Therefore, living donor liver transplantation (LDLT) was recently undertaken by our team at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center (KFSH&RC), in an effort to meet the increasing demand for LT in Saudi Arabia.
Peginterferon alpha-2b plus ribavirin compared with interferon alpha-2b plus ribavirin for initial treatment of chronic hepatitis C in Saudi patients commonly infected with genotype 4.	Comparing the efficacy of peginterferon alpha-2b plus ribavirin with interferon alpha -2b plus ribavirin in Saudi patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) commonly infected with genotype 4.
Role of tuberculosis laboratories in Saudi Arabia. A call to implement standardized procedures.	There is no doubt that the laboratory is the backbone for the diagnosis of tuberculosis (TB). Only through testing in the laboratory can the physician confirm suspicion of TB despite any previous clinical and x-ray findings. Recent visits to several laboratories in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia showed that some need considerable improvement. Unless there are standardized procedures to diagnose TB, and safety measures are implemented in all laboratories, it will be impossible to diagnose accurately and control TB. The laboratories should be redesigned to conform to international TB Diagnostic Centers, with well trained staff and proper safety procedures.
The natural history and the national pre-marital screening program in Saudi Arabia.	The genetic disorders are chronic in nature and, therefore, require continuous support and health care. Consequently, the genetic diseases cause formidable economic and psychosocial burdens on the family with negative reflection on the community at large. The genetic diseases are a heterogeneous group that result in varieties of chronic health ailment as a result of defects in the genetic material. The congenital malformations and some genetic defects may result from exposure to radiation, pharmaceutical drugs, the exposure of the mother during pregnancy to certain infectious diseases, such as rubella, toxoplasma or viruses. It may also result as a side effect of chronic diseases, including diabetes, hypertension or varieties of environmental factors, or both. The other group of genetic diseases are transmitted from parents to the offspring through a specific pattern of inheritance exemplified by recessive genetic disorders. This group includes the sickle cell gene, the thalassemias, the hemophilias, inborn errors of metabolism and red cell enzymopathies. The main etiological factors of genetic diseases and congenital malformations are 1) Genetic defects which are transmitted to offspring through carriers of affected parents. 2) Mutations in the genetic materials due to spontaneous mutations, exposure of the mother during pregnancy to infectious diseases, such as rubella and toxoplasma, receiving certain teratogenic drugs during pregnancy, exposure of the mother to ionizing radiation during pregnancy such as x-ray and chronic diseases of the mother, such as diabetes mellitus. 3) Others such as difficult labor or injury to the baby, during or after labor. This paper reviews the natural history of common blood genetic disorders and the means of prevention and control, focusing on pre-marital screening as a means of prevention.
Towards evidence-based clinical practice guidelines in Saudi Arabia.	The objective of this review is to provide a brief background on clinical practice guidelines CPGs and tools to assess and locally adapt CPGs. Over the last 2 decades, CPGs have become an increasingly popular tool for synthesis of clinical information, so as to change clinical practice and improve quality of health care. Such a quantitative growth in the number of guidelines available in different specialties is a source of concern since there is evidence that recommendations produced by different groups can be conflicting, invalid, unreliable, and even harmful. Various critical appraisal instruments were designed and tested to assess whether developers have minimized the biases inherent in creating guidelines and addressed the requirements for effective implementation. We recommend using the AGREE instrument which was developed by the Appraisal of Guideline Research and Evaluation AGREE collaboration. It is the most well-developed guideline appraisal instrument available, and it has been shown to have good reliability and validity. There is a growing recognition that it is not possible for national guidelines to be produced on every clinical problem of concern. The cost is huge and few practices have the resources or skills to develop their own valid evidence-based guidelines. Several developed countries encourage local adaptation of international good quality guidelines to avoid duplication of work and cost involved in guidelines development. Therefore wherever possible, Saudi guidelines should be based on existing good quality guidelines. The methodology for local adaptation of CPGs to meet the local needs and resources are explained in this review.
Human immunodeficiency virus in Saudi Arabia.	The human immunodeficiency virus HIV type 1 has evolved as one of the most important global infectious pathogens. Although the virus had initially emerged among certain high risk groups in developed countries, it quickly gained momentum in developing countries threatening most population groups. The first case of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was diagnosed in 1984. Twenty years later, by the end of 2003, 1509 patients have been reported to have acquired HIV 1. The majority of the early infected patients have acquired HIV 1 from blood product transfusion. Subsequently, the most prevalent mode of transmission became heterosexual. In this review, the distribution of HIV infected persons, prevalence data, and future outlook are presented. Communities considered conservative are not immune from a sexually transmissible virus that has infected 60,000,000 people globally.
Saudi women in academic medicine. Are they succeeding?	The main purpose of this study is to assess the achievements and barriers to advancement for Saudi women in a medical academic setup.
Polymorphism of p53 gene in Jordanian population and possible associations with breast cancer and lung adenocarcinoma.	To determine the prevalence of 3 polymorphisms in p53 gene in 3 healthy Jordanian groups and 2 cancer patient groups.
Breast self-examination among Saudi female nursing students in Saudi Arabia.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the knowledge and practice of breast self-examination (BSE) among Saudi female nursing college students in Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA).
Renal cell carcinoma in children. Prognostic factors.	To determine the outcome in childhood renal cell carcinoma and the role of surgical and radiation treatment.
Flow cytometric evaluation of bone marrow plasma cells using CD19, CD45, CD56, CD38, and CD138 and correlation with bone marrow infiltration ratio in multiple myeloma patients.	To examine the co-expression of CD19, CD45, CD38, CD56, and CD138 molecules in plasma cells of bone marrow (BM) aspirates and their relation with BM infiltration, and treatment in patients with multiple myeloma by flow cytometry.
Plasma concentrations of non-esterified fatty acids in chronic renal failure in the United Arab Emirates.	In end-stage renal failure, dyslipoproteinemia is linked to risk of cardiovascular disease. Increased concentrations of triacylglycerol-rich, very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) and decreased concentrations of high density lipoproteins (HDL) are usual, whilst total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein (LDL) concentrations are not increased. Non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) are not transported by lipoproteins, but increased concentrations may also be associated with cardiovascular disease risk. In this study, plasma concentrations of NEFA and other lipids were compared in healthy subjects and patients with end-stage chronic renal failure who were either undialyzed or undergoing peritoneal dialysis or hemodialysis.
Leptin concentration during different trimesters of pregnancy and its relation to other pregnancy hormones.	To determine the levels of leptin and other pregnancy hormones (progesterone, estradiol, folliculi stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone and beta human chorionic gonadotropin) in pregnant females during different stages of pregnancy and to correlate these levels to maternal weight, body mass index (BMI), babies weight and babies BMI.
Bone mineral density among postmenopausal Saudi women.	Osteoporosis is reported to be common among postmenopausal Saudi women. The reported incidence varies between 50-60%. Different machines were used to reach these conclusions. At present it is believed that dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) is the most accurate method to diagnose osteoporosis. This study was conducted to measure bone mineral density (BMD) measurement of lumbar spine and the upper femur of Saudi postmenopausal women attending orthopedic clinic with unrelated complaints.
Cultural and ethnic barriers in conducting research. Factors influencing menarche in the United Arab Emirates.	The objective of this cross sectional survey was to study the feasibility of conducting research on issues related to physical and sexual maturation in a predominantly Islamic society and to identify the factors influencing menarche in this multi ethnic community.
Use of dexamethasone to reduce postoperative vomiting and pain after pediatric tonsillectomy procedures.	The purpose of this study is to determine whether a single dose of dexamethasone 0.5mg/kg administered before surgery could decrease post operative vomiting and pain and improves oral intake in the first 24-hours after pediatric tonsillectomy procedures.
Short- and long-term effects of acetylsalicylic acid treatment on the proliferation and lipid peroxidation of skin cultured melanocytes of active vitiligo.	Recent in vitro and in vivo studies have shown that the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent, acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) or aspirin has antioxidant properties on various cell lines and tissues. Hence, the aim of the present study is to investigate the effects of ASA at 2 different concentrations (75 and 300 microg/ml) on the proliferative capacities and lipid peroxidation of in vitro skin cultured melanocytes obtained from patients with active vitiligo.
Unstable pelvic ring injuries. Outcome and timing of surgical treatment by internal fixation.	To evaluate the radiological and functional results of surgical treatment of unstable pelvic injuries and to study the factors affecting the final outcome.
Clinical growth charts for pre-school children.	Growth standards are indicators for normal growth of the children and growth charts are important tools for their growth monitoring. Children from different populations are different in their growth pattern, it is important to create national standards for the growth of children in each population to develop local growth charts, and since these were not available in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), the aim of this study was to construct national growth standards and to develop growth charts for 0-5-years Saudi children.
Ultrastructural changes of pneumocytes of rat exposed to Arabian incense (Bakhour).	Impacts of air pollution on the human health have been recognized over the last decades. Smokes, in particular, have deleterious effects on the respiratory system. According to a local tradition, incense "Bakhour" is burnt and the resultant heavy smokes are inhaled. The objective of the present study is to investigate the ultrastructural pulmonary changes which can be induced by Arabian incense, Bakhour, exposure.
Subcutaneous dirofilariasis caused by Dirofilaria repens.	Human dirofilariasis caused by Dirofilaria repens D. repens is a common zoonosis in the Mediterranean countries and parts of South Asia. During the last decade, it has been reported from countries previously considered non-endemic. This is likely due to the increased awareness regarding Dirofilaria infection. In some such cases however, dirofilariasis correlated with the travel of the patient to the endemic areas. We present the case of a Saudi male who had D. repens infection in the subcutaneous tissues of the forearm. The patient had traveled to Iraq, Syria, United Arab Emirates and Kuwait in the last 2 years. However, the known Dirofilaria endemic countries were not visited. Any prior occurrence of the human dirofilariasis in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is not documented. Lack of epidemiological studies or incidence reports in the Arabian region precludes any factual evaluation of Dirofilaria prevalence, which requires increased awareness amongst health workers regarding its potential occurrence in the native population.
Primary ovarian hydatid disease in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.	Human hydatid disease is caused by Echinococcus granulosus. Its distribution is world wide and it affects mainly the liver, but other organs could be involved. Primary involvement of pelvic organs is very rare. This is a case report of primary ovarian hydatid disease in a postmenopausal woman, diagnosed postoperatively. Surgical excision was adequate. Ultrasonography, particularly high frequency trans-vaginal, computed tomography scan and, more recently, magnetic resonance imaging are more frequently used in the diagnosis of Echinococcus cyst. They appear more reliable than many of the old tests of varying sensitivities. Whereas, there are anecdotal reports of obstetric and gynecological manifestations of echinococcosis from some Middle Eastern and North African countries, this is the first of such report from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. It is unclear why there is a lack of information about this condition among Saudi women, even though socio-cultural attitude to female involvement in sheep farming and animal husbandry is similar to that in other Arabic and Islamic countries. We endorse the recommendation that every gynecologist, radiologist and histopathologist should maintain a high index of suspicion for hydatid cyst, whenever a septate cystic pelvic mass is found.
Combined parathyroid adenoma and an occult papillary carcinoma.	Although the pathological association of thyroid and parathyroid disease is common, the association of both parathyroid adenoma and thyroid cancer is rare. We report here a case of a 45-year-old Saudi woman who was diagnosed to have primary hyperparathyroidism due to a single parathyroid adenoma as confirmed biochemically and radiologically. At operation, the adenoma was found to be an intrathyroid and therefore a thyroid lobectomy was performed. Histology of the excised lobe revealed in addition to the intrathyroid parathyroid adenoma a concurrent occult thyroid papillary carcinoma. This interesting association is discussed based on a literature review.
Identification and functional consequences of a novel MRE11 mutation affecting 10 Saudi Arabian patients with the ataxia telangiectasia-like disorder.	Ten new patients with ataxia telangiectasia-like disorder (ATLD) from three unrelated Saudi Arabian families have been identified aged 5-37 representing the largest cohort of ATLD patients ever identified. They presented with an early-onset, slowly progressive, ataxia plus ocular apraxia phenotype with an absence of tumor development, even in the oldest patient. Extra-neurological features such as telangiectasia, raised alpha-fetoprotein and reduced immunoglobulin levels were absent. No translocations were found in the two investigated patients, and the presence of microcephaly was noted in four out of eight ascertained patients. All patients are homozygous for a novel missense mutation (630G-->C, W210C) of the MRE11 gene. The cellular consequences of this amino acid change, localized in the nuclease domain of the Mre11 protein, have been determined in fibroblast cultures established from two individuals. They showed high constitutive levels of Mre11 and Rad50 proteins compared with cells from normal individuals but a very low level of the Nbs1 protein. After exposure to ionizing radiation, a dose-dependent defect in ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM)-serine 1981, p53-serine 15 and Chk2 phosphorylation, and p53 stabilization were noted, together with a failure to form Mre11 foci and enhanced radiation sensitivity. Formation of gammaH2AX foci was similar to that seen in normal fibroblasts under the experimental conditions examined. These results emphasize the importance of functional interactions among the three proteins of the Mre11-Rad50-Nbs1 complex and lend support to a role of this complex as a sensor of DNA double-strand breaks, acting upstream of ATM.
Detection of somatization and depression in primary care in Saudi Arabia.	Studies have shown a high worldwide prevalence of mental disorders in primary care. Many patients present with unexplained physical symptoms rather than psychological complaints, resulting in an excess number of costly clinical investigations. This study investigates the ability of primary care physicians to correctly detect and diagnose somatization and depression in Saudi Arabian patients.
Eimeria griseus n. sp. (Apicomplexa: Eimeriidea) from the gray monitor, Varanus griseus in Saudi Arabia.	Eimeria griseus n. sp. is described from the gall bladder of the gray monitor, Varanus griseus from Al-Thumamah, central region of Saudi Arabia. Sporulated oocysts are ellipsoid in shape, measuring 32.8x23.0 (30.0-38.3x20.0-25.0) microm with smooth yellowish bilayered wall, 1.2 (0.9-1.3) microm thick. Micropyle, polar granule and oocyst residuum are absent. Sporocysts are ellipsoid, measuring 11.8x8.5 (10.7-12.6x7.5-9.0) microm. Sporocyst residuum is present. Sporocysts lack a Stieda body. Sporozoites are banana-shaped blunt at one end and slightly tapered at second. Eimeria species from Varanus hosts are compared.
Localized granuloma annulare and autoimmune thyroiditis in a Saudi patient: report of a new case.	The association of granuloma annulare (GA) and autoimmune thyroiditis has been documented in the literature in 13 previous cases. However, the pathogenesis of GA remains obscure. Possible pathogenetic factors suggested include: humoral and delayed type hypersensitivity, vascular damage, metabolic disorder, or, primary collagen and/or elastin alteration mediated through an immunologic mechanism. We present herein the report of a 37-year old Saudi female who presented with autoimmune thyroiditis associated with GA. The patient was managed with clobetasol propionate, intra-lesional prednisolone and neomercasol. There was complete resolution of the GA lesions and the patient has remained euthyroid after a few weeks. This presentation is a further evidence that GA and autoimmune thyroiditis may be associated.
Surgical management of breast cancer in Saudi Arabia before and after outreach activities.	We collected management information from the 1996 referral documents of 100 consecutive patients who came to us for continued treatment of breast cancer. Major deficiencies were noted with regard to clinical assessment, surgery, and pathology. Since 1997 we have intensified our personnel contacts with referring surgeons, and we have performed outreach visits. To measure the effect of our efforts, we repeated the same collection of information between March 2001 and March 2002. Correct performance of TNM (tumor, node, metastasis) classification decreased from 36%-16%. The use of mammography increased from 29%-56%, application of fine needle aspiration (FNA) increased from 46%-70%, and use of core needle biopsy (CNB) increased from 0%-6%. The rate of performance of triple assessment (including correct performance of TNM) was 9% and is now 10%. The number of patients who had surgery before referral decreased from 84%-46%. A proper metastatic work-up in the present study was performed in 10% of patients, and mammography was performed in 33% of the patients who had either modified radical mastectomy (MRM) or breast conserving therapy (BCT). Previously, 78 patients had 98 operations before referral and 75% of those needed additional surgery; now only 9 patients out of 39 who had incisional biopsy or lumpectomy needed further surgery. The median number of lymph nodes now is 10, whereas previously 42% of the axillary dissections yielded < 8 lymph nodes. Pathology reports mentioning both tumor size and surgical margins have increased from 29%-53%. These new data indicate that there is a need to join all hospitals in a national guidelines plan for the management of breast cancer.
Secondary school and admission test grades as predictors of performance of medical students.	The performance of three consecutive classes of students admitted to the Colleges of Medicine and Medical Sciences at King Faisal University was studied. All students took the high school graduation examination and sat the college admission test. It was found that performance on the admission test was a better predictor than high school grades in the first two levels of the medical curriculum. However, performance in a combination of certain high school and admission test subjects was a more powerful predictor of students' achievement at all levels. This study indicates that the college admission test is a useful additional tool in the process of medical student selection at this college. Further studies are needed, however, for the formulation of general recommendations.
A study of patient satisfaction as an evaluation parameter for utilization of primary health care services.	Patient satisfaction is of value to primary health care authorities. The main objective of this study was to estimate patient satisfaction with respect to primary health care services in Riyadh City. 14 primary health care centres were chosen randomly to represent geographic areas of Riyadh. Information was collected through a pre-tested questionnaire conducted by 30 well-trained final year medical students. Systematic sampling of family files was conducted and the household head was interviewed. 900 respondents were interviewed concerning their satisfaction with the services delivered. 40% were dissatisfied. One third of the dissatisfied said that the centre was too far away: 19.4% complained that the working hours of the centre were not suitable: 38.9% complained about the absence of specialty clinics: 19.4% had language barriers with the physicians: 63.9% complained about the delay in the centre: 16.7% of the satisfied and 38.9% of the dissatisfied complained that the physicians do not explain to them their health problems and their treatment. In 22.7% of the non-satisfied category, physician's explanations were neither clear nor understandable. The Primary Health Care Centre will be the first choice if they feel sick for 74.6% of the satisfied category and 61.1% for the non-satisfied category. Implications of the findings are discussed and recommendations are given to rectify certain situations.
Splenectomy for hematological disorders in the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia.	Splenomegaly is a common clinical disorder in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Its aetiology is variable and includes portal hypertension due to schistosomal periportal hepatic fibrosis, haemoglobinopathies and lymphoproliferative disorders. At King Fahd Hospital of the University, Al-Khobar in the Eastern Province of the Kingdom, splenectomy is performed frequently for various reasons on patients drawn from all the Provinces. This is a report of 104 patients (age range eight months to 65 years) who underwent splenectomy between 1982 and 1987. We reviewed the indications, operative findings, outcome, and complications of the procedure. Patients with hypersplenism formed the largest group (50%) subjected to splenectomy followed by those suffering from the haemoglobinopathies. Chest infection as the most common complication and it mainly affected patients with portal hypertension. Post-operative septicaemia occurred in four cases within six months from the date of splenectomy.
Evaluating two different evaporative cooling management systems for dairy cows in a hot, dry climate.	Milk production, rectal temperature, live weight gain, reproductive performance, and weather data were obtained on 150 Holstein cows managed under two cooling systems on a large dairy farm in Saudi Arabia during the summer months. Cows were paired at the onset of the trial according to days postpartum, lactation number, and current milk production. Females were then allocated either to a system that forced air, precooled by evaporative cooling, over the cows or to a system that alternately showered a fine mist onto the surface of the cows and then forced air at ambient temperature over them. The cows receiving evaporative cooling and those with spray and fan cooling were on sand and on slatted concrete floor, respectively, during the periods of cooling. The onset of estrus was observed during the night when the cows preferred the unshaded corral. For the 120-d trial period, 84% (62 of 75) of the cows receiving evaporative cooling and 60% (44 of 75) of the cows receiving spray and fan cooling became pregnant. In the evaporative cooling system, the pregnancy rate per insemination was 35.2% (179 inseminations) versus 23.2% (194 inseminations) for spray and fan cooling. The mean postpartum interval to pregnancy was 117.6 d for the evaporative cooling cows and 146.7 d for spray and fan cooling cows. The evaporative cooling system, with its open shades and sand bedding, enhanced reproductive performance and milk production compared with that of cows cooled with a spray and fan system with slatted flooring in this hot climate.
Effect of Kuwait oil field fires on human comfort and environment in Jubail, Saudi Arabia.	The plumes from the Kuwait oil field fires reduced hemispheric (total) solar radiation by 26-36% during January-June 1991 in Jubail (300 km SE of Kuwait City), Saudi Arabia. Residents feel noticeably cooler even though air temperatures have not been lowered significantly (up to June 1991). These observations support human comfort theories and demonstrate the importance of shade to comfort. The desirability of complete solar radiation measurements, including those of diffuse radiation, is indicated.
Prosthetics and orthotics: a survey of centres in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.	This paper reports the results of a survey carried out to evaluate existing prosthetic and orthotic facilities and programmes of education, training, and research and development in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. One hundred and twenty hospitals and medical rehabilitation centres were each circularised with a questionnaire requesting information that mainly concerned (i) types of prostheses/orthoses, (ii) area of facility, (iii) personnel number and qualifications, and (iv) problems encountered and suggested solutions. The completed questionnaires revealed that in the final analysis of data there were only ten prosthetic/orthotic facilities. The survey provided useful data on the personnel, equipment, and facilities available in each hospital or medical rehabilitation centre, together with details of the services to prospective referring clinicians. Two centres were found to provide high quality services by qualified personnel. There were no formal prosthetic/orthotic training programmes and there was only one prosthetic/orthotic research and development centre. The respondents generally felt that there were three major problems: (i) lack of qualified personnel, (ii) lack of materials and components, and (iii) lack of continuing education and training programmes. It is hoped that presentation of these results will provide facts for both health-care providers and educators which may be used as a basis for development in this important area of healthcare.
Hypoparathyroidism-retardation-dysmorphism (HRD) syndrome in triplets.	We report female triplets with the clinical and biochemical manifestations of hypoparatyroidism-retardation-dysmorphism (HRD) syndrome also known as Sanjad-Sakati syndrome. They were born at 35 weeks gestation after assisted pregnancy (in vitro fertilization). The parents are first degree cousins from Saudi Arabia.
Normal values of pulse oximetry in newborns at high altitude.	The aim of the study was to establish normal values of pulse oximetry saturation, respiratory rate, heart rate, and blood pressure in healthy newborns at high altitude. Vital signs and oximetry saturation readings were collected from healthy term newborns at birth, at 1 h, and at 24 h of life. These were analyzed and compared with reference ranges at sea level. This study was carried out at altitudes of 1640 m above sea level in Taif city, Saudi Arabia. A total of 6011 term newborns were examined at birth and 1 h and 4274 were examined at 24 h of life. At birth, the mean SpO(2) was 68.6 per cent and 60.3 per cent from the right upper and lower limbs, respectively. Mean SpO(2) was 94.3 per cent and 95.4 per cent at the age of 1 and 24 h, respectively. These values were significantly lower than those reported at sea level. The mean respiratory rate, heart rate, and mean blood pressure at 24 h were 45.7/min, 149.7/min, and 46.9 mmHg, respectively. It is concluded that pulse oximetry saturation for newborn babies is lower at higher altitudes than at sea level. This effect is observable at altitudes of 1600 m above sea level. Cut-off levels lower than those used at sea level should be adopted when dealing with newborns living at high altitudes.
Saudi variant of multiple sulfatase deficiency.	We describe eight patients with multiple sulfatase deficiency (MSD, or Austin's disease) who differ phenotypically from classic neonatal-, childhood-, or juvenile-onset MSD. The age of onset was in childhood. The patients presented with somatic and facial features of mucopolysaccharidosis reminiscent of Maroteaux-Lamy and Morquio syndromes. They differed from classic MSD by the presence of corneal cloudiness, macrocephaly, severe dysostosis multiplex, and gibbus and the absence of ichthyosis, retinal degeneration, severe deafness, severe mental retardation, and dementia. The main neurologic presentation was cervical cord compression due to axis abnormalities. Despite neuroradiologic evidence of white-matter changes, neurologic presentation was not like metachromatic leukodystrophy. The sulfatase deficiencies were more marked than in the classic juvenile form of MSD, but less marked than in the classic childhood-onset form of MSD. Steroid sulfatase activity was spared except in one patient. This Saudi variant of MSD accounts for 5% of all lysosomal storage diseases in the Cell Repository Registry of our Inborn Errors of Metabolism Laboratory.
Coping with an affected birth: genetic counseling in Saudi Arabia.	Saudi parents who have received genetic counseling following the birth of a child affected by a neurometabolic disorder were interviewed during their visits to a specialist hospital. As is common in the West, understanding of heredity was often incompletely assimilated, and this was related to parental education level. Coping behaviors, however, were substantially different from those in the West. The wide range of attitudes recorded toward consanguineous marriage and future births was a reflection of the position of Saudi families in a society undergoing rapid change.
Coincident neuraminidase and aspartoacylase deficiency associated with chromosome 9Q paracentric inversion in a Saudi family.	A large, consanguineous Saudi family with three members with sialidosis type 1 and five members with infantile central nervous system spongy degeneration of the brain (ICNSSD, or Canavan-Bertrand-van Bogaert disease) is described. The patients with sialidosis had normal aspartoacylase activity, while neuraminidase activity in the patients with ICNSSD was reduced. All patients had normal carboxypeptidase activity in their fibroblasts. In an additional member there was photic-induced epilepsy, but he had normal enzymes. Two of the patients and one normal brother, but not the parents, had pericentric inversion of chromosome 9q. We postulate that an unidentified gene function is responsible for varied expression of these neurodegenerative diseases in this family.
Dietary management of inborn errors of amino acid metabolism with protein-modified diets.	This paper presents experiences encountered with protein-modified diets (PMD) in the management of 67 patients, aged 1 day to 14 years, followed in the Pediatric Nutrition Clinic in the past 5 years. All had inborn errors of amino acid metabolism: maple syrup urine disease (MSUD), 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) lyase deficiency, propionic acidemia (PPA), or methylmalonic aciduria (MMA). In early infancy, the diet prescription is frequently adjusted to search for the infant's tolerance level of restricted amino acids. The levels must be established when natural foods other than milk are added to the PMD. The amino acids restricted are leucine, isoleucine, and valine in MSUD; leucine in HMG-CoA lyase deficiency; and isoleucine, methionine, threonine, and valine in PPA and MMA. Efficacy of the PMD depends on accuracy in prediction of the restricted amino acid requirement and the willingness and ability of parents and patients to conform to its demands.
Identification and phenotype characterization of two CYP3A haplotypes causing different enzymatic capacity in fetal livers.	The fetal liver cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A enzymes metabolize potentially toxic and teratogenic substrates and drugs in addition to endogenous hormones and differentiation factors. CYP3A7 is the most abundant CYP in the human liver during fetal stages and the first months of postnatal age and shows a large interindividual variability of unknown molecular basis.
Complications of pregnancy and foetal outcomes in pregnant diabetic patients managed in a tertiary hospital in Saudi Arabia.	To compare the pregnancy complications and fetal outcomes in pregnancies complicated by diabetes mellitus.
Elective hysterectomy: a clinicopathological review from Abha catchment area of Saudi Arabia.	To review the major indications, types and clinicopathological features of elective hysterectomy managed in our locality.
Cephalometric evaluation for Saudi population using the Downs and Steiner analysis.	The purpose of this study is to formulate cephalometric norms of the Saudi population; and to evaluate whether significant cephalometric differences exist between Saudi and Caucasian patients. Lateral cephalometric radiographs of 60 selected Saudis (30 males and 30 females) with esthetically pleasing and harmonious faces, Angle I molar relationship, with all permanent teeth present and no history of orthodontic treatment or facial trauma, age range between 20 and 30 years were analyzed using the Downs and Steiner analysis. The means, standard deviations, and ranges of the measurements were compared with the norms established by Downs and Steiner. Statistically, several significant differences were noticeable in the results of the present study when the cephalometric mean values for the selected Saudi population were compared with the norms suggested for a white Caucasian population by Downs and Steiner. The results of the present study are significant and showed normal Saudis have a slightly protrusive maxillae, a tendency to Class II facial pattern, and a high mandibular plane angle. These results have clinical implications in the diagnosis and treatment of adult Saudis with dentofacial deformities.
Comparative psychosocial analysis of patients on maintenance hemodialysis and transplanted patients.	Many previous studies have shown that renal transplantation is associated with superior psychosocial rehabilitation than patients on dialysis. Our objective was to test if the same findings apply in Saudi patients.
Experience with endoscopy at Bin Jalawi Hospital K.S.A.	Presentation of gastrointestinal disorders may vary in different communities. This study was carried out in town of Hafoof in Eastern zone of Saudi Arabia. Purpose of the study was to observe pattern of presentation, age, sex, smoking status, haemoglobin levels, serological markers for hepatitis, endoscopic findings, histopathology, presence of H. Pylori or otherwise in biopsy materials taken during the endoscopic procedures in patients undergoing endosopic examinations. Findings of 230 endoscopies are presented.
Patterns of macrolide resistance determinants among S. pyogenes and S. pneumoniae isolates in Saudi Arabia.	In the study we characterized the macrolide sensitivity of recent clinical isolates of Streptococcus pyogenes and S. pneumoniae collected from major Saudi Arabian hospitals. Susceptibility testing was performed using standard National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards methodology on 335 S. pyogenes and 350 S. pneumoniae isolates. Macrolide resistance mechanism phenotypes were identified using double-disk diffusion. All S. pyogenes were penicillin sensitive, while 6.3% were macrolide resistant, the main mechanism of which was of M phenotype (96%). Approximately 51% of S. pneumoniae were penicillin non-susceptible. Macrolide resistance in S. pneumoniae accounted for 18.8%, the majority of which were M phenotype (91%). Low-level resistance mediated by mef-bearing strains pre-dominated. Newer macrolides, including azithromycin, are still considered drugs of choice for empirical treatment of respiratory infection in such circumstances.
Sero-surveillance for orf antibodies in sheep and goats in Saudi Arabia employing the ELISA technique.	A serological survey was conducted on sheep and goats in Saudi Arabia to detect humoral antibodies against the orf virus. The ELISA technique was superior to the AGID and CFT in detecting such antibodies. Of the 239 abattoir serum samples examined, 60 per cent had orf antibodies by ELISA while 94.8 per cent of the convalescent sera had antibodies detectable by ELISA. With the lack of vaccination and the reports that the clinical disease is commonly seen in different parts of the Kingdom, it may be that orf is becoming enzootic in this country. Recommendations for implementing a satisfactory vaccination regimen are given.
Home accidents in Al-Khobar city, eastern province, Saudi Arabia: a case-control socioeconomic study.	A one-month prospective case-control study was conducted in two sectors of Al-Khobar City (Saudi population of 65,070) with the objective of identifying the socioeconomic factors that are related to home accidents among Saudis. All accidents reported to 20 health facilities during the period were recorded and for the home accidents a questionnaire was completed at the Emergency Rooms (ERs) and the subjects were subsequently interviewed at their homes. Of the 1,104 Saudis who reported to the ERs of these health facilities 209 (18.9 percent) had home accidents. 206 were interviewed at home together with 448 families (controls) randomly drawn from the family folders at the primary health care centers in the two sectors. In the event 25 more home accidents were identified and the number of control families was accordingly reduced to 423 while the accidents increased to 231. The overall incidence rate was 355/100,000 Saudis per month, being lower (327.6/100,000) for the first sector (Al-Thougba) with a population of a relatively lower socioeconomic status than the second (Al-Khobar) sector (399.5/100,000). The number of home accidents was related to family size and was also larger in families living in villas and flats compared to single story and portable buildings. Families with home accidents had significantly more members than the controls. It is recommended that extensive community-oriented research be conducted to identify, evaluate, and subsequently control the environmental and human factors that contribute to the incidence and outcome of home accidents in Saudi Arabia.
Capripoxvirus disease in an Arabian oryx (Oryx leucoryx) from Saudi Arabia.	Lumpy skin disease caused by a capripoxvirus was observed in a captive-bred female Arabian oryx (Oryx leucoryx) at the National Wildlife Research Center, Taif, Saudi Arabia. Clinical signs included severe general depression with fever, anorexia, greater than 1,000 nodular cutaneous lesions and gradual recovery over 2 mo. The virus was found by electron microscopy and paired sera showed an increasing virus neutralization antibody titer against capripoxvirus. A serologic survey of the herd of 90 oryx showed a low prevalence (2%) of this infection. This report describes the first case of lumpy skin disease in an Arabian oryx.
Effect of medium salinity on some chemical constituents of two halophilic Bacillus spp. from Saudi Arabia.	The cell envelope amino acids of two moderately halophilic Bacillus isolates (BST and BSF) varied according to medium salinity. Cystine and proline were mostly effected. In both isolates growing in the presence of 6 and 18% NaCl there were more dicarboxylic amino acids than basic amino acids which makes the cell envelope proteins quite acidic. The concentrations of the cell-associated cations (Na+, K+, and Mg2+) were high in both isolates, and varied according to the NaCl concentration. The two isolates contained glucosamine and muramic acid in their cell walls. The amounts of these two sugar derivatives, however, varied with the NaCl concentration. Thin-layer chromatography of phospholipids revealed the presence of cardiolipins, phosphatidylglycerols and phosphatidylethanolamines in the two isolates irrespective of medium salinity. Phosphatidylglycerols and the phosphatidylethanolamines increased on increasing the NaCl concentration of the growth medium. Lysophosphatidylglycerols were detected only in the 6% grown BST cells. Unidentified phospholipids designated X1 (in isolates BSF and BST), X2 (in isolate BST) and X3 (in isolate BSF) were also detected; the concentrations of X1 and X3 were salinity dependent.
The role of pharmacists in patients' education on medication.	The pharmacist, as the last health professional to come into contact with the patient, plays a vital role in patient education on drug use. The objective of this study was to assess the extent of pharmacists' involvement in the education of patients on drug use. Five hundred patients were interviewed. The findings indicated that both physicians and pharmacists explained the use of medication; however, pharmacists (20%) were much clearer in their instructions than physicians (11%). Ninety percent of patients who needed more information on their medicines, besides its frequency of use, did not receive it. Patients were not told about drug adverse reactions (100%), storage conditions (93%), important precautions (91%), drug-food interaction (90%) and preparation of suspensions (64%). Fifty-one respondents had in the past made mistakes in the use of their medications, and in 16% this resulted in serious consequences. Ninety-three prescriptions contained drug-drug interactions, and 97% of these were dispensed unnoticed. Of the patients interviewed, 72% were satisfied with the role of pharmacists in disseminating drug information, 67% would get a refill from them without going to their physicians, and 52% had consulted them for OTC medications. It is concluded that, although there are some deficiencies, pharmacists are providing information on drug usage and patients have confidence in them. They should, therefore, acquire the proper training and communication skills to enable them to provide this service more effectively.
Handwashing and gloving practice among health care workers in medical and surgical wards in a tertiary care centre in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.	We evaluated the adherence to handwashing and gloving practice among health care workers (HCWs) in 5 medical and 5 surgical wards of a 1250-bed hospital in Riyadh. Nurses, consultants, residents, interns, and medical students attending these wards were each unobtrusively observed for handwashing and gloving practice. Each HCW was observed only once for all handwashing and gloving opportunities during a single patient encounter. 312 handwashing opportunities for 230 HCWs were observed. The study population comprised 110 nurses, 76 residents, 23 medical students, 11 interns, and 10 consultants. Female subjects constituted 56.1% of the population. The ratio of handwashing sinks to beds was 1:6-7. The overall frequency of handwashing was 6.7% before patient contact and 23.7% after patient contact. Adherence to handwashing was 70.0% among medical students, 69.2% among interns, 18.8% among nurses, 12.5% among residents, and 9.1% among consultants. The duration of handwashing was suboptimal for all HCWs (average of 4.7 s). Adherence to wearing gloves for performing procedures was on average 75.5%. Poor adherence to handwashing is a worldwide problem. Strategies to improve hand hygiene practice should be multifaceted and should include increasing the availability and accessibility of handwashing sinks and alcohol-based hand rubs.
Assessment of prescribing information for generic drugs manufactured in the Middle East and marketed in Saudi Arabia.	Little research has assessed the quality of manufacturer-provided prescribing information or documented differences in key aspects of drug information among different marketed generic products of the same drug, particularly in the Middle East and Arabian Gulf. We assessed the quality of written prescribing information for selected generic drugs marketed in Saudi Arabia and manufactured in various countries of the Middle East.
Bacterial diversity of a cyanobacterial mat degrading petroleum compounds at elevated salinities and temperatures.	Cyanobacterial mats of the Arabian Gulf coast of Saudi Arabia experience extreme conditions of temperature and salinity. Because they are exposed to continuous oil pollution, they form ideal models for biodegradation under extreme conditions. We investigated the bacterial diversity of these mats using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and 16S rRNA cloning, and tested their potential to degrade petroleum compounds at various salinities (fresh water to 16%) and temperatures (5 to 50 degrees C). Cloning revealed that c. 15% of the obtained sequences were related to unknown, possibly novel bacteria. Bacteria belonging to Beta-, Gamma- and Deltaproteobacteria, Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides group and Spirochetes, were detected. The biodegradation of petroleum compounds at different salinities by mat microorganisms showed that pristine and n-octadecane were optimally degraded at salinities between 5 and 12% (weight per volume NaCl) whereas the optimum degradation of phenanthrene and dibenzothiophene was at 3.5% salinity. The latter compounds were also degradable at 8% salinity. The same compounds were degraded at temperatures between 15 and 40 degrees C but not at 5 and 50 degrees C. The optimum temperature of degradation was 28-40 degrees C for both aliphatics and aromatics. We conclude that the studied microbial mats from Saudi Arabia are rich in novel halotolerant and thermotolerant microorganisms with the potential to degrade petroleum compounds at elevated salinities and temperatures.
Morphology and cell division of Saudithrix terricola n. gen., n. sp., a large, stichotrich ciliate from Saudi Arabia.	The morphology and main ontogenetic traits of a new stichotrich ciliate, Saudithrix terricola Foissner, AL-Rasheid and Berger n. gen., n. sp., from a terrestrial habitat in Saudi Arabia were investigated using live observation, protargol impregnation, and scanning electron microscopy. Saudithrix terricola is characterized by a large (200-350 x 70-150 microm), flexible body; an adoral zone formed like a three-quarter circle; a sickle-shaped buccal lip with a widened paroral forming a cyrtohymenid pattern with the endoral; 11 frontal and frontal-ventral cirral rows (including right marginal rows) and one left marginal row covering the ventral side; two buccal cirri; six to nine transverse cirri; three dorsal kineties; and two macronuclear nodules. The resting cyst is about 85 microm across, has a smooth wall, and a fluffy mucous layer. Most cirral anlagen originate within the parental rows and are arranged side by side, the proximal portion of the adoral zone of membranelles is reorganized, and some parental dorsal bristles are maintained. Neither the morphological nor the ontogenetic data reveal the systematic position of Saudithrix within the stichotrichs. The term multicorona is introduced and describes a frontal ciliature composed of four or more cirral bows.
Knowledge of breast cancer and its risk and protective factors among women in Riyadh.	We conducted this study to assess knowledge of breast cancer and sources of information about breast cancer among women in Riyadh. We also analyzed whether associations existed between demographic variables, knowledge of breast cancer, and the practice of breast self-examination and use of mammography screening.
Hypertension control and co-morbidities in primary health care centers in Riyadh.	The prevalence of hypertension in Saudi Arabia has been assessed only in preliminary reports. The aim of this study was to determine the degree of control of blood pressure and the prevalence of common hypertension co-morbidities among hypertensive patients at-tending primary healthcare (PHC) centers in Riyadh.
Lack of evidence of Epstein-Barr virus infection in patients with Castleman's disease. Molecular genetic analysis.	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection is associated with a diverse group of malignancies and many lymphoproliferative disorders. Castleman's disease (CD) is atypical lymphoproliferative disorder. The role of EBV in the pathogenesis of CD is not clear yet. The objective of this study is to investigate the EBV status in CD.
A retrospective study of peritonsillar abscess in Riyadh Medical Complex [corrected].	To investigate and study the management pattern of peritonsillar abscess, the male to female ratio and incidence. Also, to evaluate the causative organism isolated from abscess and reported by culture/sensitivity (C/S).
Invasive candidiasis in infants: experience from Saudi Arabia.	There are few reports about invasive candidiasis in infants in the tropics in general and in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in particular. Two Saudi infants with invasive candidiasis are reported and their clinical features and response to treatment are compared with that found in the paediatric literature, mainly from the developed world. Prematurity, low birthweight, invasive procedures, long hospital stay and prolonged use of broad-spectrum antibiotics were found to be predisposing factors in the two patients, and we believe that a lack of awareness of these by the referring physicians led to a delay in diagnosis. The need for greater awareness and vigilance, and the dangers inherent in overlooking isolates of candida from clinical materials are emphasized.
Primary gastric lymphoma.	To evaluate the clinico-pathological status of Primary Gastric Lymphoma (PGL) at presentation in King Fahad Hospital, Madina Munawra, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA).
Effect of submersion injury on water safety practice after the event in children, Saudi Arabia.	To bring to light issues surrounding water safety practices and the impact of such incidents on these practices in our community.
BK virus infection in a renal transplant Saudi child.	BK human polyomavirus BKV causes an asymptomatic primary infection in children, but later, establishes latency mainly in the urinary tract. Virus-host interactions influencing persistence and pathogenicity are not well-understood. We present here a 12-year-old Saudi boy, who had renal transplant in Egypt. Seven months later, he was admitted to our Pediatric Nephrology Unit as a case of renal impairment. He developed BKV infection, diagnosed and successfully managed in our hospital. This case demonstrates the expanding clinical importance of BKV in a post renal transplant patient. This virus can be detected in transitional cells in the urine decoy cells using cytology. Testing for BKV deoxyribonucleic acid in urine and blood is an early detection assay, and can be used as a screening test in the early stages. The early reduction of immunosuppression can improve the prognosis. No specific antiviral treatment has been established yet. This is the first report of detecting BK virus in a Saudi post-transplant child in urine and blood specimens by using polymerase chain reaction.
Analytical study of the safety records of a leading seaport in the GCC.	The pertinent records of the year 1411 H (1990/1991) for a leading seaport of a member state of GCC were examined for appraising safety performance there. The recorded accidents during this year included: 270 accidents without injuries, 58 first-aid accidents and 138 work injuries (leading to absence off work) and 4 fatalities. The injury frequency rate there (3.41) is comparable with similar agencies, while the severity rate (725.2) is considerably higher. Collision of transport, lifting and material handling equipment represents the major type of work accident (58.9%), while the highest injury rates occurred in maintenance and operation of marine equipment, followed by loading and unloading, then housekeeping. Meanwhile, the rate of accidents showed considerable increase a--during summer months, b--during the peak months of the Gulf war followed by "re-export" of war equipment, c--in the middle days of the week, d--during the 4th and 8th hours of shift, with a sharp decrease during and after lunch hours, and e--among workers performing highly technical jobs; however decreased by gaining experience with the long duration of employment. Most of the accidents could be prevented by proper training of workers and appropriate supervision, since their cause was unsafe acts due to lack of attention and/or of supervision.
Surgical treatment and results in 17 cases of open lacerations of the extensor hallucis longus tendon.	There is a scarcity of information on extensor hallucis longus tendon injuries and published studies frequently offer conflicting treatment recommendations and results.
Development of skin structure and cutaneous water loss in nestling desert house sparrows from Saudi Arabia.	The outer layer of the epidermis, the stratum corneum (SC), contains lipids and corneocytes, which together form layers that limit cutaneous water loss (CWL). We examined the development of structure of the SC and CWL in nestling House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) from Saudi Arabia. We measured CWL of nestlings, and characterized development of their epidermis using electron microscopy. We tested two antagonistic hypotheses, that CWL decreases as nestlings age, a response to increased thickness of SC, and an opposite idea that CWL increases as nestlings age even though the number of layers of the SC remains constant. CWL of nestling House Sparrows varied with developmental stages, in a non-linear fashion, but not significantly so. CWL of nestlings averaged 7.31+/-1.5 g H(2)O/(m(2) h), whereas for adults it was 4.95 g/(m(2) h); adult CWL was 67.7% that of nestlings. We found that morphology of the SC did not change linearly with age, but seemed to vary with developmental stage. CWL decreased as the SC thickness increased and as the total thickness of the corneocytes increased. Further, we found that CWL decreased as the thickness of the extracellular space increased, number of corneocytes increased, and proportion of the SC that is extracellular space increased.
Validation of three noninvasive laboratory variables to predict significant fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C in Saudi Arabia.	We tested the clinical utility of the platelet count, the aspartate aminotransferase/alanine aminotransferase (AST/ALT) ratio, and the AST to platelet ratio index (APRI) score in predicting the presence or absence of advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C in Saudi Arabia.
Factors influencing inappropriate hospitalization in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia: physicians' perspectives.	This study investigated factors causing inappropriate hospitalization from the physicians' perspectives at government, primary and military hospitals in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. A self-administered questionnaire to 250 physicians showed that the majority were aware of inappropriate admissions. Problems with inappropriate admissions occurred more frequently at public hospitals (both government and military) than private hospitals. The reasons believed to contribute most to inappropriate admission and hospitalization were the inability of the patient's family to take care of the patient, to satisfy the patient's request, and the absence of someone to get the patient out of the hospital.
Strongyloidiasis stercoralis: is it a health problem in Saudi Arabia?	S. stercoralis which does not need intermediate host, undergo free cycle in the soil, was reported. So, human strongyloidiasis as an introduced or a misdiagnosed problem was discussed.
Pilgrims from Marseille, France, to Mecca: demographics and vaccination status.	A cohort of 461 Hajj pilgrims to Mecca departing from Marseille was surveyed. Most of travelers originated from North Africa and one third were geriatric patients. An overall low rate of vaccination was observed. The proportions of travelers without correct vaccination were 67% for influenza, 70% for tetanus, 75% for diphteria and poliomyelitis, and 87% for pertussis and hepatitis A.
Current situation of acupuncture and bloodletting therapy in Saudi Arabia]	The article introduces the current situation of acupuncture and moxibustion in clinical practice and education in Saudi Arabia, as well as the acupuncture-related regulations by Saudi Arabia Health Ministry. In addition, the Arabian traditional therapy, copping-bloodletting (Hijamah), is briefly mentioned and compared with Chinese acupuncture bloodletting.
Preliminary experience with learner-centered evidence based format morning report.	To observe the advantages of implementing learner - centered evidence based format morning report at King Abdulaziz National Guard Hospital, Alhasa, Saudi Arabia.
Level of health awareness of Saudi patients on renal replacement therapy.	To assess health awareness in patients on renal replacement therapy (RRT) in Saudi Arabia.
Prevalence of physical activity and inactivity among Saudis aged 30-70 years. A population-based cross-sectional study.	To assess physical activity levels among Saudi adults, and to examine the relationships of physical activity with body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC) and obesity prevalence.
Evaluation of drug and poison information center in Saudi Arabia during the period 2000-2002.	To evaluate the profile of the requestors, the number and content of questions which were received during the period of May 2000 - December 2002.
Vitamin D deficiency and rickets in the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia.	Nutritional rickets remains prevalent in many developing countries, despite the availability of ample sunlight. The aim of this study was to investigate the clinical features and chemical pathology in a group of children with rickets and to compare them with a control group.
Phytochemical and biological studies on Saudi Commiphora opobalsamum L.	The aerial part of Commiphora opobalsamum L. (Burseraceae) growing in Saudi Arabia was subjected to a phytopharmacological investigation in order to identify its major chemical constituents and to evaluate its extracts and isolated compounds in preliminary in vitro assays for antimicrobial, antimalarial, antitumor, anti-inflammatory (COX-2 inhibition), antioxidant and estrogenic activity. Six compounds were isolated and identified as the triterpenes friedelin, canophyllal, and oleanonic acid; the flavonols mearnsetin and quercetin; and syringic acid. The ethyl acetate extract was moderately active against Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Plasmodium falciparum; while the petroleum ether and chloroform extracts inhibited COX-2 at 5 and 10 microg mL(-1), respectively. Of the isolated compounds, syringic acid showed moderate antimalarial, anticandidal, and antimycobacterial activity; while mearnsetin and quercetin exhibited antioxidant activity comparable to ascorbic acid and trolox. This is the first detailed phytochemical investigation of C. opobalsamum L. growing in Saudi Arabia and elsewhere. The isolated compounds are reported from this plant for the first time and their full (1)H and (13)C NMR assignments are included.
A human case of otoacariasis involving a histiostomatid mite (Acari: Histiostomatidae).	A 31-year-old Saudi man was seen at an ear, nose, and throat clinic at Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, with bilateral itching in the external auditory canal. On otoscopic examination, the skin lining the ear canal was thickened with whitish sheets of sloughed cells and thick discharge. Large numbers of mites of an undescribed species closely related to members of the genus Loxanoetus (Histiostomatidae) were present. The patient underwent successive washings of the ear canal with saline and 70% ethanol at intervals of 2-3 months and was treated with antibiotics. Treatment with Eurax (crotamiton) ear drops for one week cleared the mite infestation. This represents the first reported case of human otoacariasis involving a histiostomatid mite. Based on the known biology of histiostomatid mites and the associated hosts of Loxanoetus and related genera, there is reason to speculate that the patient acquired the infestation while swimming in a lake or pond where this mite was present.
Imerslund-Gräsbeck syndrome in a Saudi family.	Imerslund-Gräsbeck syndrome, an autosomal recessive trait of defective uptake of intrinsic factor-vitamin B12 complex by terminal ileum, is described in a Saudi family (two siblings and their first cousin). This rare disease has previously been reported only in Northern Europe and North African Jewish ethnic groups.
Aberrant lymphoid antigen expression in acute myeloid leukemia in Saudi Arabia.	Immunophenotyping improves both accuracy and reproducibility of acute leukemia classification and is considered particularly useful for identifying aberrant lineage association of acute leukemia, biphenotypic and bilineal acute leukemia, as well as monitoring minimal residual disease. Some immunophenotypes correlate with cytogenetic abnormalities and prognosis.
A case of complicated anthroponotic cutaneous leishmaniasis in Al Baha, Saudi Arabia.	A complicated case of ACL, which showed feverish and widely disseminated ulcers over the face was successfully treated with systemic antibiotic and pentostam as intralesional injections.
Developmental plasticity of cutaneous water loss and lipid composition in stratum corneum of desert and mesic nestling house sparrows.	Intercellular lipids of the stratum corneum (SC), the outer layer of the epidermis, form a barrier to water vapor diffusion through the skin. Previously, we measured cutaneous water loss (CWL) and lipid composition of the SC of adult house sparrows from two populations, one living in the deserts of Saudi Arabia and another living in mesic Ohio. Adult desert house sparrows had a lower CWL, a lower proportion of free fatty acids, and a higher proportion of ceramides and cerebrosides in the SC compared with mesic sparrows. In this study, we investigated developmental plasticity of CWL and lipid composition of the SC in desert and mesic nestling house sparrows reared in low and high humidity and compared our results with previous work on adults. We measured CWL of nestlings and analyzed the lipid composition of the SC using thin-layer chromatography. We showed that nestling house sparrows from both localities had higher CWL than adults in their natural environment, a result of major modifications of the lipid composition of the SC. The expression of plasticity in CWL seems to be a response to opposed selection pressures, thermoregulation and water conservation, at different life stages, on which regulation of CWL plays a crucial role. Desert nestlings showed a greater degree of plasticity in CWL and lipid composition of the SC than did mesic nestlings, a finding consistent with the idea that organisms exposed to more environmental stress ought to be more plastic than individuals living in more benign environments.
Identification of new CRF43_02G and CRF25_cpx in Saudi Arabia based on full genome sequence analysis of six HIV type 1 isolates.	Recently, we reported a high level of HIV-1 strain diversity in patients at the King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Based on phylogenetic analysis of gag p24, pol integrase, and env gp41 sequences, subtypes A, B, C, D, and G, and CRF02_AG, as well as unique recombinant forms were identified. Subtype G accounted for 25% of the infections in the Saudi population and this high prevalence was unexpected. Although subtype G is found in west central Africa, pure subtype G strains are uncommon. To further characterize the subtype G infections in Saudi Arabia, six strains that appeared to be pure subtype G were selected for full genome sequencing. Near full-length genomes were obtained using RT-PCR amplification to generate overlapping fragments from viral RNA extracted from plasma. The six strains are not subtype G throughout their entire genome. Four isolates have a recombinant structure composed of CRF02_AG and subtype G and share three identical breakpoints. This recombinant form defines a new CRF designated CRF43_02G. The remaining two isolates are CRF25_cpx, a circulating recombinant form identified in Cameroon composed of subtypes A and G and unclassified segments. Reanalysis of the previously reported Saudi HIV-1 partial genome sequences revealed additional isolates classified as CRF43_02G and CRF25_cpx and one isolate was reclassified to CRF22_01A. Identification of CRF43_02G in Saudi Arabia could indicate a transmission network within the country. Alternatively, the new CRF could have been introduced from an external source where this CRF is not yet recognized.
Finding the right direction: the importance of open communication in a governance model of nurse management.	Change and its management is a widely researched and documented activity. Yet amidst this plethora of literature there is little that looks at the central tenets of the change process: exemplar setting; communication and executive guidance. The nursing management system at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre agreed to change direction and embrace the concept of shared governance to bring about equality and parity in decision making. This process demanded that the nursing executive gave direction by providing an example of how shared governance could be actuated. This paper argues how shared governance is a viable alternative management structure for nursing practice and details how the organisation implemented it through open and honest communication.
Perception of nursing care: views of Saudi Arabian female nurses.	'Values are principles and standards that have meaning and worth to an individual, family, group, or community' (Purnell & Paulanka 1998: p.3). Values are central to the care provided by nurses. The provision of nursing care within the context of value clarification, has been explored from various perspectives, however, as values vary within cultures, there is a limited range of studies reflecting on Saudi Arabian nurses' perspectives of nursing care. Through a Heideggerian phenomenological research design, six nurses were enrolled through purposive sampling. Semi-structured, in-depth interviews, which were audio tape-recorded, were chosen as the methods of data collection. A seven stage framework approach was applied to analyse and organise the research findings in three conceptual themes: values in context of Islam, the nurse-patient relationship, and identity's influence on being in the world of nursing. The findings of the research indicate that values in nursing and the perception of care are closely linked to the Islamic values of the informants. However, one of the most challenging aspects emerging from this study is related to these nurses' experiences related to the public's negative perception of nursing as a profession for Saudi Arabian women.
Distribution of serotypes and antibiotic resistance of invasive pneumococcal disease isolates among children aged 5 years and under in Saudi Arabia (2000-2004).	To determine vaccine coverage of invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD) in Saudi Arabian children aged 5 years and under, 350 IPD isolates were tested for antibiotic susceptibility. Of these 46%, 42% and 12% were penicillin-sensitive, pencillinintermediate, and penicillin-resistant, respectively. Rates of resistance to erythromycin and cefotaxime were 26% and 6%, respectively. The potential serotype coverage of the PCV7 vaccine in Saudi Arabia among children <5 years of age is 62%, and vaccine coverage significantly improved in children <2 years of age, to reach 83% against IPD isolates. PCV7 is expected to have a substantial impact on the burden of invasive and antibiotic-resistant pneumococcal disease in Saudi Arabia.
Evaluation of a real-time polymerase chain reaction assay for the diagnosis of malaria in patients from Jazan area, Saudi Arabia.	A real-time PCR assay with conventional microscopy by Giemsa-stained blood films was used. PCR was completed in an hour and identified the Plasmodium species in a single reaction. Blood was collected, and DNA was extracted. A genus-specific primer set corresponding to 18S ribosomal RNA was used to amplify target sequence. Fluorescence resonance energy technology hybridization probes were designed for P. falciparum over a region containing base pair mismatches allowed Plasmodium species differentiation. Microscopically positive patients (n = 60) were positive with real-time assay (100% sensitivity). 58 were single-species infections caused by P. falciparum; mixed infections (P. falciparum & P. vivax) were shown by real-time assay. Six out of 30 negative microscopy specimens were positive by real-time PCR (80% specificity). The discrepant results could be due to the subjective nature of microscopy and analytical objectivity of PCR, and high analytical sensitivity of real-time assay (1 parasite/microl) compared to microscopy (50 parasites/microl). Six patients were retested with ICT malaria test and 4 were positive showing that PCR results were correct. There was low correlation between parasitemia by microscopy and gene copy number for P. falciparum (r = 0.2; P = 0.05 [Spearman]).
Anemia, interleukin-10, tumor necrosis factor alpha, and erythropoietin levels in children with acute, complicated and uncomplicated malignant malaria in Jazan, Saudi Arabia.	To gain insight into potential relationships between tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin 10 (IL-10), erythropoietin (EPO), and anemia in acute malaria, 90 children 3 to 11 years with acute malaria were studied. According to parasitemia and hemoglobin levels, they were divided into 3 groups: G1 (mild): asexual low-density Plasmodium falciparum parasitemia <8000 parasites/ul and hemoglobin levels >8g/dl. G2 (high-density uncomplicated): asexual high-density parasitemia (>8000 parasites/ul, with hemoglobin levels >8 g/dl. G3 (anemia): with severe malaria symptoms and parasitemia with anemia (hemoglobin levels <8 g/dl). Hospital controls included 10 children with matching age group who required inpatient management but had no malaria parasitemia. Good marrow response was in G1 & G2 showed by elevation of serum EPO and soluble transferring receptors (sTfR) and increased red cell distribution width (RDW). In G3, bone marrow suppression was in spite of increased EPO level in response to anemia. TNF-alpha level was significantly higher G2 and G3 (P.05). IL-10 levels in G1 were significantly higher than in hospital control group (P<0.05). The highest level of IL-10 was in G2. The mean IL-10 to TNF-alpha ratio in G2 (4.64) was significantly higher (P<.005) than in G3 (mean ratio, 1.77).
Multilocus genetic analysis of Cryptosporidium isolates from Saudi Arabia.	A total of 35 Cryptosporidium positive samples were collected from children in Jeddah city. The samples were microscopically examined with Ziehl Neelsen (ZN) and Auramin phenol (AP) staining methods. Cryptosporidium antigen was detected in the faecal samples by using the Cryptosporidium ELISA kit. Cryptosporidium sp. were identified by targeting an 840 bp of the hyper-variable region of the 18S rRNA gene and about 550 of the first domain (N terminal) of the COWP gene. The sub-genotypic identification of C. parvum and C. hominis isolates was done by targeting the sporozoite antigen gp15/45/60 gene. Four sp. were identified; C. hominis 13/35 (37%), C. parvum 15/35 (42.9%), C. meleagridis 1/35(2.9 %), & C. muris 1/35 (2.9 %). One isolate was a mixed infection of C. parvum & C. hominis.
Insulinoma in Saudi Arabia: a twenty-year hospital study.	The study was designed to assess retrospectively clinical pattern of insulinoma at a national referral center in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. All cases of insulinoma recorded at King Khalid University Hospital Riyadh between January 1987 and December 2006 were reviewed. During the 20-year period five patients were seen comprising three females (ages 38, 40, and 70 years) and two males (17 and 34 years). The duration of symptoms prior to diagnosis ranged between one and eight years. The commonest mode of presentation before diagnosis was inability to observe Ramadan fasting. Other notable symptoms included dizziness and loss of consciousness. All the five patients proceeded to operation. At surgery all were found to be benign tumors. Post-operatively, three of the patients developed pseudocyst, which resolved upon undergoing second surgery. Though clinical presentation of insulinoma in Saudi subjects is similar to those reported in the literature, our study revealed prominent symptoms occurring during yearly ramadan religious fast could be a useful information in history taking. Further studies on a larger population are needed to further characterize our findings.
Coronary artery disease and apolipoprotein A-I/C-III gene polymorphism: a study of Saudi Arabians.	The infrequent band of 3.2-kb of the apolipoprotein A-I/C-III polymorphic region has previously been found to be associated with coronary artery disease and with hypertriglyceridaemia in Caucasians. We studied the apolipoprotein A-I/C-III gene cluster polymorphism in 97 Saudi Arabians in relation to coronary artery disease. Patients were categorized as being with or without coronary artery disease on the basis of coronary angiography. Genomic blotting of Sac I-digested chromosomal DNA with the use of an apolipoprotein A-I gene probe revealed 4.2-kb and 3.2-kb hybridization bands. The genotype frequency of patients with and without coronary artery disease was not different. The frequency of the 3.2-kb allele occurred in 16% of patients with coronary artery disease and in 21% of patients with normal coronary arteries (non-significant). In conclusion, we have not been able to confirm in Saudi Arabians associations previously reported in Caucasians of the 3.2-kb band and coronary artery disease.
Sexual function in women with female genital mutilation.	To compare the sexual function of women with female genital mutilation (FGM) to women without FGM.
War and medicine in the desert. A report of the 13th Evacuation Hospital in Saudi Arabia.	On Nov 21, 1990, the 13th Evacuation Hospital from Madison was called to active duty to support the US Army's VII Corps, which had been sent to the Persian Gulf from Germany. Physicians, nurses, and other medical personnel from reserve components and the active army were attached to our unit to complement our personnel requirements. This report will provide an overview of our activities and experiences, and add some insight to the medical phase of the Persian Gulf conflict. The compilation of our clinical data was hampered by the frequent transfers of the patients and their medical records, as well as our lack of copying facilities. Inter-hospital communication and follow-up information were also deficient due to the constraints of preparation for the war. The assimilation of fragmentary reports, such as this one, into a comprehensive review of the lessons learned is currently taking place and should soon be available to the public.
Comparative study of Saudi-marketed products and US drug labeling.	Drug package inserts from ten nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs marketed in Saudi Arabia were compared with their corresponding US labels to determine possible differences in their information content. These variations were assessed with special regard to the number of words used and the type of the information provided. The study showed that inserts of Saudi-marketed products generally conveyed limited and incomplete information. Possible adverse reactions, drug--drug interactions, and date of revision often were not included, although this information was present on the corresponding US labels. Comparisons of the package inserts of the same product from various pharmaceutical companies show wide variations in the amount of information provided. Determining the minimal level of information that must be included by the manufacturer in the package insert and the establishment of firm international guidelines by the World Health Organization could effectively reduce such variations.
Pathogenicity and antigenic components of excysted Giardia lamblia isolated from patients in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.	Giardia lamblia cysts were isolated from patients in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Cysts and trophozoites (from axenically excysted cysts) were given orally by gavage to mice to establish the pathogenicity of the Riyadh isolate. There was no effect of varying the dose of administered parasite on parasite excretion or morbidity. A typical pathologic pattern of giardiasis was demonstrated by histologic methods and electron microscopy. Antigenic components of the Riyadh isolate were compared with the Portland strain and with Entamoeba histolytica by gel diffusion immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting. There were few antigens in common between Riyadh isolate and the Portland strain, and little cross-reactivity of the Riyadh isolate with Entamoeba histolytica was observed.
Environmental radiation measurements using TLD-900 at the King Saud University Campus, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.	To determine the baseline environmental radiation and resulting population exposure, natural background levels at the King Saud University campus were measured using CaSO4:Dy (TLD-900) discs. Measurements were made 1 m above ground level at 10 locations. Two different calculational methods were utilized to account for signal fading. In the first method, a fading correction factor was determined and used separately. In the second method, a separate correction factor for fading was not required because the determined calibration factor was carrying this correction. Results of the two methods were similar. Measurements were performed on a quarterly basis for a 2-y period (January 1988 to December 1989). The annual average dose rate was 565.4 +/- 27.1 mu Gy y-1 in air.
Ophthalmomyiasis during Operation Desert Shield.	A case of fly larva infestation of the eye (ophthalmomyiasis) is reported in an American soldier serving in Operation Desert Shield. Background information, prognosis, and treatment are discussed.
Monosymptomatic hypochondriacal psychosis in developing countries.	Although a large growing literature indicates that monosymptomatic hypochondriacal psychosis is more common than previously thought, little contribution has been made from psychiatrists working in developing countries. Fifteen patients are described who presented with the delusion of emitting a foul smell.
Comparative sensitivity to antibiotics and biocides of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus strains isolated from Saudi Arabia and Great Britain.	Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) isolated in Saudi Arabia and Great Britain were examined for susceptibility to antibiotics and biocides. The strains differed in their sensitivity patterns. None of the Saudi strains showed resistance to propamidine isethionate, but most of the British gentamicin methicillin-resistant Staph. aureus (GMRSA) strains were highly resistant to this compound and to some other nucleic acid-binding (NAB) compounds. Both groups showed a low level of resistance towards quaternary ammonium compounds (QACs), but resistance to these compounds was not associated with resistance to gentamicin in the Saudi strains. The aminoglycoside-resistant determinants were non-conjugative in these strains. Natural MRSA strains were good recipients for pWG613, but transferred this plasmid in reciprocal crosses at significantly lower rates.
Antibiotic sensitivity pattern; experience at University Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.	Results of sensitivity testing were discussed based on examination of 5192 isolates of the various bacteria isolated from clinical specimens from King Khalid University Hospital in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Streptococcus pyogenes and Streptococcus pneumoniae were sensitive to penicillin and erythromycin. The sensitivity pattern of Staphylococcus aureus was also predictable as they were fairly sensitive to both methicillin (98%) and erythromycin (96%). Neisseria gonorrhoeae (27%) showed a high level of resistance to penicillin. The resistance of Haemophilus influenzae to ampicillin and chloramphenicol was low. Brucella species was sensitive to tetracycline and rifampicin; resistance to streptomycin and cotrimoxazole was minimal being 1% and 6% respectively. The resistance of E. coli, Klebsiella species and Proteus species to second and third generation cephalosporins and amikacin was fairly low ranging from 1.3% to 3%. The gentamicin resistance for these organisms was also within the acceptable range (3%-10%). Gentamicin and amikacin resistance for Pseudomonas aeruginosa was low (2-8%). Salmonella typhi was sensitive to ampicillin, cotrimoxazole, and chloramphenicol. Salmonella enteritidis, Shigella species, and enteropathogenic E. coli were highly resistant to various antibiotics. Campylobacter jejuni was sensitive to gentamicin but 6% of isolates were resistant to erythromycin. Ninety six percent of Gram-negative rods except P. aeruginosa isolated from urine of patients having urinary tract infections were sensitive to amoxycillin-clavulanic acid. In addition, P. aeruginosa showed fairly low resistance to norfloxacin which is given orally to treat cystitis caused by this organism.
Prosthetic valves in children and adolescents.	The purpose of this paper is to present the short- and long-term results of prosthetic valve replacement in children. During a 7-year period that ended in April 1985, 186 children, ages 1 to 20 years, underwent valve replacement; there were 55 (30%) aortic valve replacements, 95 (51%) mitral valve replacements, and 36 (19%) multiple valve replacements. Ninety-four percent of the lesions were rheumatic in origin, 4% were congenital, and 2% were infectious. Of 223 valves replaced, 175 (78%) were mechanical valves and 48 (22%) were heterografts; the latter were in the mitral position in all but three patients. Surgical mortality rates were 3.6%, 4.2%, and 19.4% respectively for aortic valve, mitral valve, and multiple valve replacements. Five-year actuarial survival was 91% for aortic valve replacement, 82% for mitral valve replacement and 60% for multiple valve replacement. Major events included reoperation in 34 (with three deaths), progressive myocardial failure that led to death in 10, sudden unexpected death in two, thromboembolic complications in 19 (death in five), subacute bacterial endocarditis in five (two deaths), and bleeding that required transfusion in two patients. Five-year complication-free actuarial survival rates were 83% for aortic valve replacement, 63% for mitral valve replacement, and 57% for multiple valve replacement. The respective five-year complication-free survival rates were 83%, 48%, and 43%. Significant morbidity and mortality rates are associated with valve replacement. Therefore every effort should be made to preserve the native valve by plastic reparative procedures. When prosthetic replacement of mitral valve is contemplated, our data would suggest that heterografts should not be inserted in children 15 years of age or younger, although heterografts may be used in children over 15 years of age with the expectation of valve survival comparable to that of mechanical valves. When complications that are associated with anticoagulant therapy were reviewed, platelet inhibiting drugs seem quite satisfactory in patients with aortic valve replacement; patients with mitral valve replacement seem to require warfarin therapy, and warfarin must be used in patients with multiple valve replacement to reduce the risk of thromboembolic complications.
The effect of rosemary on the mutagenic activity of heterocyclic amines extracted from common food consumed in Saudi Arabia.	Meat intake may increase cancer risk as heterocyclic amines (HCAs) are one of the food mutagens produced in meat cooked at high temperature. The consumption of meat in Saudi Arabia is high compared with other developing countries and the incidence of cancer has been increasing during the past 30 years. The present study aimed to quantitatively determine the effect of rosemary on the mutagenic activity and the amount of HCAs formed in beef Shawerma, grilled chicken and fried liver as an attempt to minimize the carcinogenic risk of HCAs formed in these commonly consumed meat dishes. Surprisingly, rosemary extracts (2%, 5%, 10% and 15%) apparently enhanced the total amount of HCAs measured in beef Shawerma, whereas 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) was the only mutagenic amine inhibited by 2% rosemary with a reduction up to 61.6% compared with control. In grilled chicken, the total amount of HCAs measured in 2% rosemary samples was reduced seven-fold lower than the control level, whereas PhIp and 3-amino-1,4-dimethyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole (TrpP1) were inhibited to non-detectable levels. These data demonstrate that 2% rosemary may play an important role in attenuating the production of PhIP in both Shawerma and fried chicken. In fried liver, HCAs were not detected either in the control or in 2% treated samples whereas augmented levels of TrpP1 were measured in 5%, 10% and 15% rosemary. The mutagenic activity of HCAs extracted from all beef Shawerma and grilled chicken treated samples increased over the control sample using Salmonella typhimurium TA100. In fried liver, the mutagenic activity detected in the control sample was higher than treated samples, which suggests that S. typhimurium TA100 might be less sensitive in detecting the mutagenic response of TrpP1 extracted from the real food system. We believe more research is needed to assess the role of antioxidants in the formation of HCAs in order to optimize both safety and quality of our diets.
Simulation in ENT medical education.	Computer-based medical simulation has recently been adopted as a new method of medical education. This paper reviews the uses of medical simulation within the ENT specialty, and reports how such simulation is used in Al-Ahsa College of Medicine, Saudi Arabia.
Current practice patterns and training status of selected graduates at the King Abdulaziz University College of Medicine, Saudi Arabia.	Graduate doctors are the primary output of medical education programmes. It is important for institutions to identify systematically the types of medical activities in which their former students are involved in order to determine the effectiveness of the curriculum, assessing academic standards and reviewing admissions policies. Information was obtained from a survey of men and women graduates from three of the early graduation classes of King Abdulaziz University College of Medicine in Saudi Arabia about postgraduate medical training, certification, practice patterns, and other curriculum issues. Information collected from 151 graduates (90%) indicated that 96% were practising medicine in a variety of medical specialties and subspecialties. Six were not practising at the time of the study. Significant differences were found in the specialties being practised when men and women were compared. Men tended to practise in medicine, surgery, dermatology, urology, ENT, ophthalmology and orthopaedics, while women concentrated in obstetrics and gynaecology and paediatrics. Certification beyond medical school was earned by 49% with no significant difference being found comparing men to women. Men earned the majority of their postgraduate certifications outside Saudi Arabia while most women earned theirs in Saudi Arabia. Graduates indicated that departments in the basic sciences were least helpful in preparing them as doctors, while selected clinical departments were most helpful. It was concluded from the study that the curriculum goals of the College of Medicine, namely a curriculum of international standards producing graduates to take leadership roles in both teaching and medical practice, were realized in part by the graduates surveyed.
Advanced training in general practice in the UK for overseas postgraduates.	The strengths of general practice in the UK as a training environment for overseas doctors intending to implement the World Health Organization strategy 'Health for All by the Year 2000' in primary care are identified. A course of advanced training for teachers and administrators of primary care is described and evaluated in terms of participants' academic achievements and wider issues, including influence upon the development of primary care in their countries of origin.
Prescribing patterns in primary healthcare in Saudi Arabia.	A systematic sampling of prescriptions from primary care centers in the Al-Baha region of Saudi Arabia was analyzed to determine the patterns of drug prescribing and the compliance of practicing physicians in these centers with the essential drug list issued by the Ministry of Health. The average number of drugs per prescription was 2.3 +/- 0.7 of which 86.5 percent of the prescriptions contained two to three drugs. In 53.7 percent of the prescriptions no duration for treatment was specific and 96.5 percent of the prescriptions did not indicate drug strength. The study showed that analgesics and vitamins were the two most common classes of drug prescriptions in the centers and that 18.6 percent of prescribed drugs were not from the allowed list of drugs. The causes of polypharmacy and noncompliance with the limited list are discussed with emphasis on the essential drug list as a method of rationalizing prescribing in primary healthcare.
Traditional healers in Riyadh region: reasons and health problems for seeking their advice. A household survey.	The objectives were to study sociodemographic characteristics of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) visitors, rate of their visits, health problems, and reasons for the visits.
Hyperbilirubinemia in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase-deficient male newborns in Al-Ahsa, Saudi Arabia.	To study the clinical and laboratory characteristics of hyperbilirubinemia in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD)-deficient male newborns from Al-Ahsa area (Ahsais).
Determinants of length of stay in an inpatient stroke rehabilitation unit in Saudi Arabia.	To determine and analyze the influence of age, gender, and ethnicity in the length of stay (LoS) of inpatient rehabilitation unit patients after stroke.
Breastfeeding knowledge and attitude among Saudi women in Central Saudi Arabia.	To study the knowledge and attitude of Saudi women towards breastfeeding.
Percentile curves for various hematologic measurements at birth in Arab preterm babies of different gestational ages.	Percentile curves were calculated for hemoglobin; hematocrit; total red and white blood cell counts; mean corpuscular volume; mean corpuscular hemoglobin; mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration; and platelet, neutrophil, band cell, lymphocyte, monocyte, basophil, and eosinophil counts in preterm babies of 24 through 36 weeks' gestation. The curves were derived from mainly Saudi Arabian preterm babies who were born in Riyadh, which is just above sea level. Babies born to mothers with hematologic problems or babies who themselves had any evidence of hematologic disorder, blood loss, or disorders that affect hematologic values, eg, asphyxia, were excluded from the reference population. Six hundred two newborns were included in the study; however, after exclusions, the final reference population was 550. A minimum of 50 babies were studied for each gestational age except for gestations of 24 and 25 weeks. For these two gestations, 27 and 21 babies were studied, respectively. The percentile curves should be useful as a guide to the normal range of these variables in babies, particularly those of Arab origin.
Echinococcosis (Hydatid disease): lessons from experience with 59 patients.	The records of 59 patients with echinococcal hydatid disease were reviewed. Ultrasonic and computed tomographic imaging were found to be the most reliable diagnostic procedures. Thirty-seven patients with large symptomatic cysts underwent surgery. Most often, conservative extraction of the inner embryonic membranes proved effective, but cysts not extensively involving vital structures were totally excised. Cetrimide became the local scolecidal agent of choice; a role for albendazole in systemic chemotherapy is anticipated. Elective surgery in 30 patients was safe, but urgent surgery in seven patients with acute complications from cyst rupture was followed by substantial morbidity and mortality.
Patterns of sickle cell, thalassaemia and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency genes in north-western Saudi Arabia.	This study was conducted on 429 blood samples collected from Saudi males and females from Al-Ula in the north-western province of Saudi Arabia in order to determine the frequency of the sickle cell gene, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency gene, and alpha- and beta-thalassaemia genes, and to investigate the pattern of their interactions. The frequency of the sickle cell gene was 0.0785, while that of the beta-thalassaemia gene was 0.1195. Heterozygous alpha-thalassaemia 2 (- alpha/alpha alpha) was encountered at a frequency of 0.121, while homozygous alpha-thalassaemia 2 (- alpha/- alpha) occurred at a frequency of 0.0046. HbH disease and hydrops fetalis were not encountered. One case with triple alpha-gene arrangement, alpha alpha alpha anti-3.7, was identified. The G6PD deficiency gene frequency was 0.08 and 0.032 in males and females, respectively. Several cases with 2 abnormal genes were encountered. The haematological and biochemical data from the patients with sickle cell disease suggest that the disease in this population is more severe in comparison with cases reported from the eastern population.
Distribution of group-specific component/vitamin-D-binding protein subtypes in Saudi Arabia.	The distribution of group-specific component (Gc) phenotypes and the Gc allele frequencies were investigated in 1,082 individuals from five different provinces of Saudi Arabia by the combined use of isoelectric focusing and immunofixation. Between provinces variations in the Gc allele frequencies were found. Gc1S decreased and Gc1F increased from the northwest to the southeast in Saudi Arabia. The overall frequencies in Saudi Arabia were 0.236 for Gc1F, 0.610 for Gc1S, 0.150 for Gc2 and 0.004 for rare alleles. The observed frequencies did not differ significantly from those found in other population samples from the Middle East. In nine samples rare Gc variants were found.
Knowledge, attitudes, and practices relating to Dengue fever among females in Jeddah high schools.	Dengue is increasingly recognized as one of the world's major infectious diseases. Dengue vectors, human knowledge and human behavior have each been reported to play an important role in the transmission of the disease. A cross-sectional approach was conducted to assess knowledge, attitudes and practice (KAP) of high school female students, teachers and supervisors towards Dengue fever (DF), and to determine scoring predictors of high school students' knowledge and practice scores. A multistage, stratified, random sample method was applied. A total of 2693 students, 356 teachers and 115 supervisors completed confidential self-administered questionnaires.
Improvement in vancomycin utilization in adults in a Saudi Arabian Medical Center using the Hospital Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee guidelines and simple educational activity.	To evaluate vancomycin utilization according to the adapted criteria of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) with a report of the effect of education program on the utilization.
In vitro ciprofloxacin resistance patterns of gram-positive bacteria isolated from clinical specimens in a teaching hospital in Saudi Arabia.	Over the last few decades the ever-increasing level of bacterial resistance to antimicrobials has been a cause of worldwide concern. Fluoroquinolones, particularly ciprofloxacin has been used indiscriminately for both gram-positive and gram-negative bacterial infections. The increased use of ciprofloxacin has led to a progressive loss of bacterial susceptibility to this antibiotic. Therefore it is necessary to have update knowledge of resistance pattern of bacteria to this antibiotic so that alternate appropriate antibiotics can be used for ciprofloxacin-resistant bacterial infections.
The effect of repeated blood donations on the iron status of male Saudi blood donors.	Regular blood donation can lead to iron deficiency. Screening donors' serum ferritin levels at the time of first donation and subsequently once every year is a very rational way to pick up iron deficiency in a voluntary blood donor population. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of blood donation and the prevalence of erythropoiesis with iron deficiency (sideropenia) in Saudi male blood donors.
First diatomyid rodent from the Early Miocene of Arabia.	The Asian family Diatomyidae is known from the Early Oligocene to the present. Among living rodents, this group comprises only the recently discovered Laonastes aenigmamus from Laos. Fossil diatomyids are known from only a few sites, in which they are often rare. The discovery of Pierremus explorator gen. nov. sp. nov. in the Lower Miocene of As-Sarrar (Saudi Arabia) raises to ten the number of extinct diatomyid species recognized. Pierremus explorator is the first record of a diatomyid from the Afro-Arabian plate. This discovery provides evidence that, together with other rodents (ctenodactylids, zapodids…), the diatomyids took advantage of the corridor that was established between Afro-Arabia and Eurasia in Early Miocene times.
Tea prepared from Anastatica hirerochuntica seeds contains a diversity of antioxidant flavonoids, chlorogenic acids and phenolic compounds.	HPLC-PDA-MS(2) was used to identify phenolic and polyphenolic compounds in an herbal tea made from seeds of Anastatica hirerochuntica, a plant found in the Sahara-Arabian deserts and used to treat a variety of ailments. Twenty compounds comprising a series of flavone C- and O-linked glycosides, phenolic acids, chlorogenic acids and flavonols were identified or partially identified on the basis of co-chromatography with reference compounds and MS(2) and MS(3) fragmentation patterns. The flavones were the principal components, occurring as luteolin, apigenin and diosmetin conjugates. The antioxidant potential of individual compounds in Anastatica was assessed using HPLC with an on-line ABTS·(+) detection system. This revealed that 14 compounds exhibited antioxidant activity. The highest contribution to the antioxidant capacity of the tea, 56%, came from 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and caffeoyl- and dicaffeoylquinic acids while 6-C-glucosides of luteolin and apigenin contributed 41%.
Prevalence of allergic diseases in a sample of Taif citizens assessed by an original Arabic questionnaire (phase I) A pioneer study in Saudi Arabia.	In recent decades, the prevalence of allergic diseases has markedly increased worldwide; however, there are still many cases which remain undiagnosed. Epidemiological studies have the potential to elucidate the prevalence and risk factors for these diseases.
Effect of complementation of cattle cooling systems with feedline soakers on lactating dairy cows in a desert environment.	Two experiments were conducted on a commercial dairy farm in eastern Saudi Arabia to investigate the effects of Korral Kool (KK; Korral Kool Inc., Mesa, AZ) cattle cooling systems complemented with feedline soakers on core body temperature (CBT) of dairy cows. In both experiments, cows had access to KK 24h/d. In the first experiment, 7 primiparous and 6 multiparous lactating Holstein dairy cows were assigned to 1 of 2 pens, which were assigned randomly to treatment sequence over 4 d in a switchback design. Soakers were on (ON24) or off (OFF24) for 24h/d. For the second experiment, 20 multiparous lactating Holstein cows were assigned randomly to 1 of 2 pens, which were assigned randomly to treatment sequence in a switchback design. This experiment lasted 4 d and feedline soakers alternately remained off or were on (ON12) for 12h/d. In experiment 1, average ambient temperature was 30 ± 0.9°C and average relative humidity was 44 ± 14% (mean ± SD). Feedline soakers complementing KK systems for 24 h/d decreased the mean CBT of lactating dairy cows compared with KK systems alone (38.80 vs. 38.98 ± 0.061°C, respectively). A significant treatment by time interaction was found. The greatest treatment effects occurred at 2100 h; treatment means at this time were 39.26 and 38.85 ± 0.085°C for OFF24 and ON24 treatments, respectively. In experiment 2, average ambient temperature was 35 ± 1.5°C and average relative humidity was 33 ± 16%. Feedline soakers running for 12 h/d significantly decreased the mean 24-h CBT from 39.16 to 38.99 ± 0.084°C. Treatment by time interaction was also significant; the greatest treatment effects occurred at 1500 h, when ON12 reduced CBT from 39.38 to 38.81 ± 0.088°C. These results demonstrate that complementing the KK system with feedline soakers decreased the CBT of dairy cows housed in desert environments. However, the combined systems were not sufficient to lower CBT to normal temperatures in this extreme environment.
Lack of KIF21A mutations in congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles type I patients from consanguineous Saudi Arabian families.	Congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles type I (CFEOM1), the most common CFEOM worldwide, is characterized by bilateral ptotic hypotropia, an inability to supraduct above the horizontal midline, horizontal strabismus (typically exotropia), and ophthalmoplegia with abnormal synkinesis. This distinct non-syndromic phenotype is considered autosomal dominant and is virtually always from heterozygous missense mutations in kinesin family member 21A (KIF21A). However, there are occasional KIF21A-negative cases, opening the possibility for a recessive cause. The objective of this study is to explore this possibility by assessing CFEOM1 patients exclusively from consanguineous families, who are the most likely to have recessive cause for their phenotype if a recessive cause exists.
Prognostic value of mitotic counts in breast cancer of Saudi Arabian patients.	Quantitative methods in combination with other objective prognostic criteria can improve the evaluation of a cancer patient's prognosis, and possibly predict response to therapy. One of the important prognostic and predictive markers is the mitotic count, which has proven valuable in many aspects. In this study, the prognostic value of the mitotic count was assessed in breast cancer (BC) patients in Saudi Arabia.
Detecting mutations in PfCRT and PfMDR1 genes among Plasmodium falciparum isolates from Saudi Arabia by pyrosequencing.	The emergence of chloroquine resistance in Plasmodium falciparum is a significant public health problem where malaria is endemic. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of pyrosequencing to assess chloroquine resistance among P. falciparum isolates from the southwestern region of Saudi Arabia by analyzing the K76T and N86Y mutations in the P. falciparum chloroquine resistance transporter (PfCRT) and P. falciparum multidrug resistance 1 (PfMDR1) genes, respectively. Blood samples (n = 121) from microscopically positive P. falciparum cases were collected. DNA was extracted, and fragments from each of the genes were amplified by PCR using new sets of primers. The amplicons were sequenced using a pyrosequencer. All of the 121 samples were amplified for assessment of the PfCRT K76T and PfMDR1 N86Y mutations. All of the samples amplified for the PfCRT 76T mutation harbored the ACA codon (121/121; 100%), indicating the presence of the 76T mutation. For the PfMDR1 N86Y mutation, 72/121 samples (59.5%) had the sequence AAT at that position, indicating the presence of the wild-type allele (86N). However, 49/121 samples (40.5%) had a TAT codon, indicating the mutant allele (Y) at position 86. This study shows that pyrosequencing could be useful as a high throughput, rapid, and sensitive assay for the detection of specific single nucleotide polymorphisms in drug-resistant P. falciparum strains. This will help health authorities in malaria-endemic regions to adopt new malaria control strategies that will be applicable for diagnostic and drug resistance assays for malaria and other life-threatening pathogens that are endemic in their respective countries.
Application of mitochondrial genes sequences for measuring the genetic diversity of Arabian oryx.	Arabian oryx (Oryx leucoryx) had faced extinction in the wild more than three decades ago and was saved by the prudent efforts of captive breeding programs. A clear understanding of the molecular diversity of contemporary Arabian oryx population is important for the long term success of captive breeding and reintroduction of this potentially endangered species. We have sequenced the segments of mitochondrial DNA including12S rRNA, 16S rRNA, cytochrome b (Cyt-b) and control region (CR) genes of 24 captive-bred and reintroduced animals. Although the sequences of 12S rRNA, 16S rRNA and Cyt-b were found to be identical for all the samples, typical sequence variations in the CR gene were observed in the form of 7 haplotypes. One of these haplotypes has been reported earlier while the remaining 6 haplotypes are novel and represent different lineages from the founders. The haplotype and nucleotide diversities were found to be 0.789 and 0.009 respectively. The genetic distances among the 7 mtDNA haplotypes varied from 0.001 to 0.017. These findings are of potential relevance to the management of captive breeding programs for the conservation of Arabian oryx.
Susceptibility of Biomphalaria spp. to infection with Schistosoma mansoni in sympatric and allopatric combinations with observations on the genetic variability between snails.	This investigation was carried out to study the susceptibility of Saudi Biomphalaria arabica to Egyptian Schistosoma mansoni in comparison with the susceptibility of Egyptian Biomphalaria alexandrina to the same parasite. This was in order to know the possibility that the parasite might be able to spread into Saudi Arabia and to determine the genetic variability between Egyptian B. alexandrina and Saudi Biomphalaria arabica snails. Lab bred Egyptian B. alexandrina and Saudi B. arabica snails were exposed individually to 10 freshly hatched Egyptian S. mansoni miracidia/snail. The mortality rate, infection rate, prepatent period, duration of cercarial shedding and cercariae production per snail were recorded in both the sympatric couple (Egyptian B. alexandrina and Egyptian S. mansoni) and in the allopatric combination (Saudi B. arabica and Egyptian S. mansoni). The results revealed that, the survival rate of snails exposed to Egyptian S. mansoni miracidia at 34th day post-exposure (at first cercarial shedding) was higher in B. arabica than in B. alexandrina. After shedding, the mortality rate was higher in the B. arabica, compared to B. alexandrina. The infection rate was higher in B. arabica than B. alexandrina; the mean of prepatent period was shorter in the B. arabica than in the B. alexandrina. However, the duration of cercarial shedding was longer in the Egyptian snails and the cercarial production per snail was higher in B. alexandrina snails than in B. arabica. To study the genetic variability between B. alexandrina and B. arabica, RAPD-PCR on the genomic DNA of snails was done. RAPD-PCR revealed significant variation between the two snail species. In conclusion, the results suggest that B. arabica can play a role in the transmission of Egyptian S. mansoni in Saudi Arabia and therefore this parasite might be able to spread into the Kingdom. In addition, the RAPD-PCR results demonstrated genetic variability between the two species which may be related to the differences in susceptibility of both Saudi and Egyptian Biomphalaria snails to Egyptian S. mansoni infection.
Outcome of midfoot amputations in diabetic gangrene.	Persistent high incidence of limb loss resulting from advanced foot gangrene in patients with diabetes prompted an aggressive foot salvage surgery as a final attempt before below-the-knee amputation (BKA). The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of transtarsal amputations in achieving limb salvage at our vascular surgery unit, King Fahd Hospital of the University, Saudi Arabia.
Cutaneous water loss and the development of the stratum corneum of nestling house sparrows (Passer domesticus) from desert and mesic environments.	Evaporation through the skin contributes to more than half of the total water loss in birds. Therefore, we expect the regulation of cutaneous water loss (CWL) to be crucial for birds, especially those that live in deserts, to maintain a normal state of hydration. Previous studies in adult birds showed that modifications of the lipid composition of the stratum corneum (SC), the outer layer of the epidermis, were associated with changes in rates of CWL. However, few studies have examined the ontogeny of CWL and the lipids of the SC in nestling birds. In this study, we measured CWL and the lipid composition of the SC during development of nestlings from two populations of house sparrows, one from the deserts of Saudi Arabia and the other from mesic Ohio. We found that desert and mesic nestlings followed different developmental trajectories for CWL. Desert nestlings seemed to make a more frugal use of water than did mesic nestlings. To regulate CWL, nestlings appeared to modify the lipid composition of the SC during ontogeny. Our results also suggest a tighter regulation of CWL in desert nestlings, presumably as a result of the stronger selection pressures to which nestlings are exposed in deserts.
High-resolution analysis of DNA copy number alterations in patients with isolated sporadic keratoconus.	To determine whether patients with sporadic, non-familial keratoconus and no pathogenic mutations in the visual system homeobox 1 (VSX1) gene have evidence of chromosomal copy number alterations.
Gender disparities in the awareness and control of hypertension.	Hypertension is an important risk factor for the commonest cause of death among men, namely, cardiovascular diseases. The purpose of this study was to provide data concerning gender difference in the awareness, treatment, and control of hypertension in adults. We conducted a cross-sectional study in Riyadh, the capital city of Saudi Arabia. Subjects were asked if they had been told by a physician that they had hypertension or were on blood pressure (BP) medication. Blood pressure was measured using standardized Joint National Committee (JNC) protocol. The study sample consisted of 814 adults who were at least 18 years old. Of the estimated 27.6% people with hypertension, 38.6% were unaware of their hypertension, 29.8% were aware of their condition but were not being treated, and among those who had been treated 40.8% remained uncontrolled. Independent predictors of a lack of awareness of hypertension were an age of at least 45 years, male gender, and BMI greater than 30. The extent of awareness and control of hypertension did not differ significantly by monthly income, educational level, physical activities, or smoking status. Awareness and control of hypertension is low in men, making them public health priorities. Achieving more stringent BP control will require increased attention by physicians and public education to improve the awareness and control of hypertension.
Attitude and practice of the health care professionals towards the clinical practice guidelines in King Khalid University Hospital in Saudi Arabia.	To explore the opinion and practice of the health care providers in King Khalid University Hospital (KKUH) towards clinical practice guidelines (CPGs).
Bortezomib as an adjuvant to conventional therapy in the treatment of antibody mediated rejection (AMR): the full spectrum.	Antibody-mediated rejection (AMR) is a well-known complication of kidney transplantation. Its incidence is higher in HLA and ABO incompatible transplant recipients and in patients who develop de novo HLA antibodies. Different clinical and histological phenotypes of HLA-related AMR have been described with variable responses to conventional AMR treatment (Plasmapheresis, IVIG, thymoglobulin (ATG), and anti-CD20 antibodies). Regardless of the phenotype, once the HLA primed B cells have differentiated into antibody producing long-lived plasma cells, they become less vulnerable to conventional AMR treatment. Bortezomib (Velcade) is a proteasome inhibitor approved by the FDA for the treatment of multiple myeloma. It targets mature plasma cells, and hence it is intriguing to study its role in the suppression of long-lived plasma cells. Several previous reports have suggested effectiveness of Bortezomib in the treatment of AMR. We report our experience with Bortezomib as an adjuvant to conventional therapy in five distinct phenotypes of AMR: early acute AMR in the context of desensitization; subclinical acute AMR in the context of desensitization; late acute AMR due to de novo HLA antibody; late ACR and acute AMR due to de novo HLA antibody and chronic AMR due to de novo HLA antibody.
Non prescribed sale of antibiotics in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia: a cross sectional study.	Antibiotics sales without medical prescriptions are increasingly recognized as sources of antimicrobial misuse that can exacerbate the global burden of antibiotic resistance. We aimed to determine the percentage of pharmacies who sell antibiotics without medical prescriptions, examining the potential associated risks of such practice in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, by simulation of different clinical scenarios.
Self-medication practice among patients in a public health care system.	A survey of 500 patients attending primary health care centres in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia was carried out to determine the prevalence and factors associated with self-medication practice. The results indicated that 35.4% of the respondents had practised self-medication past 2 weeks. Bivariate and multivariate analyses indicated that respondents who were young, male, having poor health status, reporting inconvenient access or dissatisfied with health care were more likely to practise self-medication. Health education campaigns, strict legislations on dispensing drugs from private pharmacies and increasing the quality of and access to health care are among the important interventions that might be needed in order to change the people's health seeking behaviour and protect them from the potential risks of self-medications.
Acute kidney injury after cardiac surgery in eastern Saudi Arabia.	Acute kidney injury is a serious complication after cardiac surgery. This study was conducted to determine the frequency of acute kidney injury and the associated risk factors following cardiac surgery at Dhahran health centre in eastern Saudi Arabia. All patients who underwent cardiac surgery between June 2005 and December 2008 were included. Of 293 patients who fulfilled the criteria and were included in the final analysis, 85 (29.0%) developed acute kidney injury. Using multivariate analysis, the factors significantly associated with acute kidney injury were age, diabetes, preoperative chronic kidney disease and emergent surgery. Mortality associated with acute kidney injury was 10.5% overall and 42.9% when dialysis was required. Acute kidney injury following cardiac surgery is a serious problem among patients in eastern Saudi Arabia. Measures to prevent this complication are essential.
Public attitude towards biomedical research at outpatient clinics of King Abdulaziz Medical City, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.	The aim of this study was to determine the attitude of Saudi Arabians to research involving storage and use of human tissues from which genetic information may be derived and to assess their willingness to donate tissue samples to biobanks. In a cross-sectional interview study of 1051 outpatients at a hospital in Riyadh city, 68.8% had a positive attitude towards biomedical research and 78.4% were willing to allow use of excess surgical tissues for research purposes. Participants were less willing to allow the use of tissue or organs from a deceased relative. Logistic regression analysis found that predictors for a positive attitude to biomedical research and to use of tissue in research were: female sex, higher level of education, previous experience of blood testing and previous participation in health-related research. The attitudes towards biomedical research among the participants were satisfactory and comparable to findings from other countries.
Molecular basis of β-thalassemia in the western province of Saudi Arabia: identification of rare β-thalassemia mutations.	This study aimed at the identification of the spectrum of mutations in patients with β-thalassemia (β-thal) in the western province of Saudi Arabia. Screening for the mutations was done using the polymerase chain reaction-amplification refractory mutation system (PCR-ARMS) technique to test for 12 mutations, and direct automated DNA sequencing for the unknown samples. The study included 172 patients; of these 15 patients had sickle cell anemia and one Hb S [β6(A3)Glu→Val, GAG>GTG]/β-thal. A total of 23 mutations were identified to cause the disease in the western area. Seven common mutations were responsible for the β-thal alleles in 78% of patients and could be detected by the ARMS technique: IVS-II-1 (G>A), IVS-I-110 (G>A), IVS-I-5 (G>C), codon 39 (C>T), codon 26 (G>A) [Hb E or β26(B8)Glu→Lys, GAG>AAG], frameshift codons (FSC) 8/9 (+G), and IVS-I-1 (G>A). DNA sequencing of uncharacterized alleles detected eight less common mutations: FSC 41/42 (-TCTT), IVS-I 25 bp deletion, codon 37 (G>A), FSC 44 (-C), Cap site +1 (A>C), IVS-I-6 (T>C), FSC 5 (-CT) and IVS-I-1 (G>T), and eight rare mutations: -87 (C>G), initiation codon -1 (T>G), codon 15 (G>A), FSC 16 (-C), FSC 20/21 (+G), codon 27 (G>A), IVS-I-130 (G>C) and IVS-II-837 (A>C). Four alleles were normal by DNA sequencing. Genetic heterogeneity was observed in this study, 10 mutations were of Asian or Asian/Indian origin, two were Kurdish, one Chinese, one Turkish, one Saudi, and the remainder were of Mediterranean origin. The presence of a large population of immigrants in the western province is responsible for the great heterogeneity at the molecular level, and for the difference observed in the frequencies of mutations from those reported in the eastern province of Saudi Arabia. Screening for β-thal mutations using PCR-ARMS for the seven most frequent mutations in the Saudi population followed by DNA sequencing of the unknown alleles could be useful for the implementation of a strategy for carrier detection and preimplantation genetic diagnosis in high risk families.
Phthalates residues in plastic bottled waters.	This study was conducted to determine the presence of phthalates in 10 different brands of bottled water available in Saudi markets and stored under different conditions. Dimethyl phthalate (DMP), diethylphthalate (DEP), di-n-butyl phthalate (DBP), benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP) and diethyl hexyl phthalate (DEHP) were measured by headspace solid-phase microextraction followed by gas chromatography- mass spectrometer detector. Most of these phthalates were detected in the selected bottled water sample that might be either leached from the plastic packaging materials or contamination during bottling processes. Bottled waters stored at 4°C contained higher levels of DMP, DEP, BBP and DEHP than those stored at room temperature and outdoors. On the other hand, the levels of DMP, DEP and BBP were significantly lower in bottled waters stored at room temperature than those outdoor. It seems that temperature and sunlight play a role in the degradation of phthalates within time. The levels of BBP were the highest at 4°C storage (4.592 ± 3.081 µg/l; range: 1.194-21.128 µg/l) and approximately 76% of the bottled waters had BBP above the limit of quantification (LOQ) of 0.994 µg/l. Apart from DEHP (< 6 µg/l), there are not current legislations for other phthalates. Regardless of storage conditions, all our samples did not exceed the maximum established limit of DEHP. Although, the levels of phthalates in tested bottled waters were low, one should not dismiss that these chemicals may cause endocrine disruption through several mechanisms, especially to potentially vulnerable populations such as infants and pregnant women. Saudi Arabia ranks 12 in bottled water consumption (88 L per capita in 2004) among the 71 reported countries. With this high consumption, a quality assurance scheme for residue monitoring in water is quite important. Although, one cannot avoid phthalates contamination in bottled waters due to manufacturing process but at least special care should be taken regarding their storage conditions.
Pharmacoeconomic analysis in Saudi Arabia: an overdue agenda item for action.	Pharmacoeconomics is a branch of health economics related to the most economical and efficient use of pharmaceuticals. Pharmacoeconomic research identifies, measures and compares the costs and outcomes (clinical, economic and humanistic) of pharmaceutical products and services. Pharmacoeconomic evaluation can play a significant role in the efficient allocation of resources in healthcare systems with constrained budgets. Countries are trying to control the rising costs of health care in their aging population. They are all asking the same question: Is the new drug good value for money; and if so, what is the society willing to pay for it? This article reviews the importance of, and the need for, adaptation of pharmacoeconomic analysis to the conditions in Saudi Arabia. It will shed some light on the important steps for converting the concept into practice, including the need for identifying the willing-to-pay (WTP) or the threshold cutoff, the existence of a real cost for each utility, the nonexistence of an pharmacoeconomic advisory forum, pharmaceutical budget allocation, and the impact of pharmaceutical marketing. It will also provide recommendations for easing any challenges that might jeopardize the conduct of such analysis in Saudi Arabia.
A validation study comparing the sensitivity and specificity of the new Dr. KSU H1N1 RT-PCR kit with real-time RT-PCR for diagnosing influenza A (H1N1).	A new test (Dr. KSU H1N1 RT-PCR kit) was recently developed to provide a less expensive alternative to real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). We report the findings of a validation study designed to assess the diagnostic accuracy, including sensitivity and specificity, of the new kit, as compared to real-time RT-PCR.
Investigation of adult-sera for the presence of anti-Cryptosporidium antibodies.	Cryptosporidiosis is an acute diarrhoeal disease caused by Cryptosporidium spp for both human and animals. Typically, the duration of diarrhoeal illness and ultimate outcome of intestinal cryptosporidiosis depend on the immune status of the patient. Random serology-based studies in humans and animals have suggested that infection with this organism is common during a life time. 130 serum samples of adults, (18-30 years) from two main public hospitals at Jeddah City, Saudi Arabia were recruited to participate in the study. The aim was to identify the sero-prevalence of cryptosporidiosis infection and determine factors associated with increased risk of the infection. Western Blot analysis (WB) with two different Cryptosporidium antigen markers; the 15-17 KDa and the 27 KDa, were used. Among participants, 8.5 % had antibodies to the 15 KDa, 23.8 % had antibodies to the 27 kDa, 34.6 % were sero-positive to both antigens, and 33.1 % were sero-negative to both antigens. Source of drinking water with a strong association with drinking tap water was the only factor significantly associated with seropositivity to cryptosporidiosis infection (OR= 37.33, P< 0.001).
Epidemiology and risk factors associated with religious pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia. Results of a prospective cohort 2008-2009]	Religious pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia, or Hajj, is a basic tenet of the Islamic doctrine and, after Ramadan, annually represents the largest human concentration (with up to 5% of from the EU) around the world. Such a gathering entails health risks.
Female sexual dysfunction: what Arab gynecologists think and know.	We aimed to assess the knowledge and practice of gynecologists (Gyns) from different Arab countries with regard to female sexual dysfunction (FSD) in comparison with members of the American Urogynecologic Society (AUGS) and the British Society of Urogynecology (BSUG).
Utilization and responsiveness of the asthma control test (ACT) at the initiation of therapy for patients with asthma: a randomized controlled trial.	The aim of this study was to assess the responsiveness of the asthma control test (ACT) to detect changes at the initiation of therapy and its utilization in the initiation of asthma treatment.
Anthropometry of the Saudi Arabian nose.	All previous studies on nasal anthropometry of Middle Eastern populations were done on Persian, Turkish, and North African populations; with no studies arising from the Arabic Gulf Region. This study aimed to define nasal anthropometric measurements in Saudi Arabia (the largest Arabic Gulf country) and compare them with different races. A total of 104 Saudi men and 105 Saudi women with a mean age of 22 years (range, 18-27 years) were included in the study. A total of 25 nasal anthropometric variables were measured. Comparison with other races was done using the t-test (P < 0.05 is considered significant). The intercanthal distance of Saudi men is significantly smaller than that in women (the reverse is true for other races). Hence, Saudi women (and not men) have significantly wider intercanthal distance than do whites. The nasal widths of Saudi men and women lie between the whites and the Chinese. A unique feature of the Saudi nose is the significantly larger nasofrontal angle of Saudi men and women compared with all other races. Within the Saudi race, the nasofacial angle of men is so much larger than that of women (41.4 vs 33.3 degrees). In other races, the difference between men and women is usually slight (0- to 1-mm difference only). In Saudi men, the nasofacial angle is significantly larger than that in whites, but the value for Saudi women is significantly smaller than that for whites. Finally, in both Saudi sexes, the nasal tip angle/nasal tip protrusion is significantly smaller than all other races. It was concluded that the Saudi nose has several unique features when compared with other races including other Middle Eastern populations.
Development of genetic markers for Ochradenus  arabicus (Resedaceae), an endemic medicinal plant of Saudi Arabia.	Some species of the genus Ochradenus are  difficult to identify based on morphological markers. Similar limitations are  found for biochemical markers. We developed genetic markers based on DNA  sequences for Ochradenus arabicus, which is an endemic plant to Saudi  Arabia, locally utilized as a medicinal shrub. The internal transcribed spacer  sequence of nuclear ribosomal DNA and chloroplast (rpoB and rpoC1)  markers were more informative than other chloroplast DNA markers. Based  on these markers, we were able to discriminate this species from another  species of the same genus (O. baccatus) that is widely distributed in  Saudi Arabia, despite a high degree of morphological similarity. These genetic  markers facilitate its identification, even when acquired in a dried state from  local markets.
Microbial contamination of date rutab collected from the markets of Al-Hofuf City in Saudi Arabia.	The microbial contamination of 60 samples from six date cultivars in the rutab stage purchased from different retail outlets in AL-Hofuf City, Saudi Arabia was studied. All samples were found contaminated with aerobic mesophilic bacteria at loads in the order 10(2) to 10(5) cfu/cm(2) with some significant differences among varieties that can be attributed to differences in the weather conditions during rutab season. Also all samples, except only one, were contaminated with molds and yeasts at loads in the order 10(2) to 10(3) cfu/cm(2). Potentially pathogenic Staphylococcus aureus was detected in 57 samples and A. flavus/parasiticus in 13 samples, while coliforms were detected in 39 samples.
Knowledge, attitudes, and practices of primary care physicians about irritable bowel syndrome in Northern Saudi Arabia.	Primary health care (PHC) physicians manage most patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). In Saudi Arabia, there are limited data on their knowledge, attitudes, and practices about this disorder. This study aimed to assess knowledge, attitudes, and practices of primary care physicians about IBS.
Future immunosuppression in organ transplantation: treating the innate immune system of the deceased donor--start tomorrow.	This article, based in part on an invited talk at the Annual International Conference of Saudi Society of Nephrology & Transplantation in 2012, reviews current notions of the emerging field of innate alloimmunity by highlighting novel thoughts regarding future immunosuppressive therapy in organ transplantation. In light of new insights into the mechanisms of innate immunity on one hand and the essential role of regulatory T cells in controlling alloimmune responses on the other hand, potential clinical tools to generate tolerogenic dendritic cells are explored. These cells have been shown to promote induction of regulatory T cells that possess the potential to prevent acute and chronic allograft rejection. Experimental findings from both research areas are discussed in support of the notion that presentation of alloantigens under subimmunogenic noninflammatory conditions, achieved by vigorous inhibition of oxidative injury-induced allograft inflammation (known to occur in both the deceased donor and the recipient during allograft reperfusion), may lead to the induction of tolerogenic dendritic cell-mediated regulatory T cells, thereby offering a realistic opportunity to induce allotolerance in transplant recipients. However, before planning clinical trials in recipients, the start of such a novel therapeutic strategy to prevent allograft rejection could consist of designing and performing a quadruple drug treatment of deceased (brain-dead) donors aimed at generating donor-derived tolerogenic dendritic cells. The combination use of (1) an antioxidant, (2) a complement-inhibiting agent, (3) an IL-1β inhibitor, and (4) a polyclonal antilymphocytic preparation is recommended as the preferred choice of such a donor treatment. If proven successful in organ donors, similar therapeutic modalities should subsequently be considered to apply to the recipient during allograft reperfusion under strict study conditions.
The safety of H1N1 vaccine in children in Saudi Arabia: a cohort study using modern technology in a developing country.	With its rapid introduction in 2009, concerns about the safety of the H1N1 vaccines have been raised. Data were especially limited on the pediatric safety of H1N1 vaccine in Saudi Arabia.
Association of interleukin 4 (-590 T/C) and interleukin 4 receptor (Q551R A/G) gene polymorphisms with acne vulgaris.	Acne vulgaris is a common skin disorder. The complete etiology of this disease remains to be identified; however, it seems that aberrant expression of cytokine genes might be a contributing factor. This study aimed to investigate the association of genetic polymorphisms related to interleukin 4 (IL-4) promotor and receptor (IL-4R) genes as inflammatory modulators with acne vulgaris.
Intracranial germ cell tumors: a single-institution experience.	Intracranial germ cell tumors (GCTs) are not a common disease. We reviewed the experience of a single institution to determine the variables that affect treatment outcome.
Are acute coronary syndrome patients admitted during off-duty hours treated differently? An analysis of the Saudi Project for Assessment of Acute Coronary Syndrome (SPACE) study.	It is often suggested that acute coronary syndrome (ACS) patients admitted during off-duty hours (OH) have a worse clinical outcome than those admitted during regular working hours (RH). Our objective was to compare the management and hospital outcomes of ACS patients admitted during OH with those admitted during RH.
Health-related quality of life of Saudi hepatitis B and C patients.	Although usually asymptomatic, many chronic hepatitis C patients have extrahepatic manifestations and impaired health-related quality of life (HRQOL), while hepatitis B virus (HBV) patients have normal or nearly normal HRQOL. The aim of this study was to investigate HRQOL in Saudi patients infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV) in comparison with patients infected with HBV in an effort to document the prevalence of and find factors associated with reduced HRQOL in these patients.
Pattern of patch test reactivity among patients with clinical diagnosis of contact dermatitis: a hospital-based study.	Contact allergy is associated with a significant morbidity all over the world. This study was performed to investigate the pattern of sensitization by contact allergens in the local population.
Puberty development among children and adolescents with chronic disease in Saudi Arabia.	Increasing numbers of children with chronic health conditions are now surviving into adolescence and adulthood because of advancing health care. These chronic health conditions are generally known to impact a child's growth and development, including pubertal development. In Saudi Arabia, chronic diseases are prevalent, yet no reports of pubertal onset and its relation to chronic illness are available. The aim of this study was to explore pubertal development among Saudi children and adolescents with a chronic illness.
Lethal Legionella infection in an immunocompromised child: first reported case in the Middle East.	Legionnaires disease continues to be underreported in the Middle East--a reflection of underdiagnosis, both clinically and by laboratory investigations. We draw the attention to this unusual cause of occasionally fatal, yet severe, pneumonia by reporting an immunocompromised infant who succumbed to Legionella pneumophila pneumonia. The urinary test for Legionella antigen was positive, and this was then confirmed by a bronchoalveolar fluid culture. Moreover we have reviewed the incidence, pathophysiology, association with immunodeficiency, diagnostic tools, and treatment in this case report.
Source of drug resistant Plasmodium falciparum in a potential malaria elimination site in Saudi Arabia.	A major challenge to the success of malaria control program in Saudi Arabia is the high influx of expatriates and holy visitors from malaria endemic countries. In the present study we examined whether drug resistant parasite genotypes reported in Jazan region, southwest of Saudi Arabia are imported or developed locally. We examined 178 Plasmodium falciparum isolates for alleles of dihydropteroate synthase (dhps) and dihydrofolate reductase (dhfr), associated with Sulfadoxine-Pyrimethamine (SP) resistance, and three microsatellites flanking each gene. In addition, we examined a neutral polymorphic gene (Pfg377). We compared the dhfr and dhps haplotypes in Jazan, using network analysis, to an existing similar data set of 94 P. falciparum isolates from eastern Sudan. In Jazan, double mutant dhfr allele (51I, 108N) occurred with a prevalence of 33%. The vast majority (99%) of dhps were wild-type alleles. The mean expected heterozygosity (H(e)) of microsatellites around mutant dhfr alleles (H(e)=0.312; n=60) was lower (P ≤ 0.05) than that around the wild-type allele (H(e)=0.834; n=116). Also, the mutant dhfr isolates showed high H(e) for dhps (H(e)=0.80) and the non-drug resistance locus Pfg377 (H(e)=0.63) indicative of selection for mutant dhfr only. The predominant double mutant dhfr haplotype in Jazan (73%), was prevalent among P. falciparum in east Africa. Network analysis suggests the mutant haplotype of dhfr gene was possibly introduced into Jazan from East Africa. The absence of mutations in dhps as well as triple mutant dhfr haplotype associated with SP failure support the current use of SP as a partner with artesunate as a first line therapy in Saudi Arabia. However, the close relationship between the major mutant dhfr haplotype in Sudan and Saudi Arabia, favour the hypothesis of recent migration as a source of the major resistant dhfr lineage. Thus, regular monitoring of the dhfr and dhps haplotypes is of high priority to guard possible importation of high level SP resistant lineages.
Lack of adverse effect of anti-tumor necrosis factor-α biologics in treatment of rheumatoid arthritis: 5 years follow-up.	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, systemic inflammatory disorder affecting synovial joints and many other organs. Most patients seen in clinical settings have a progressive chronic disease, with radiographic damage, frequent work disability, incremental functional declines and increased mortality rates. The introduction of the biological drugs in treatment of RA has played an important role in prevention of destructive effects of the disease but may have serious adverse effects due to their powerful inhibition of the immune system.
The perceived health promotion practice of nurses in Saudi Arabia.	The health promotion practice of nurses working in Saudi Arabia is unidentified. The purpose of this study was to investigate the perceived health promotion practice of staff nurses in Saudi Arabia. This was achieved by surveying the views of nurses (n = 614), doctors (n = 130) and patients (n = 322) in 10 hospitals located in the Eastern Province of the country using a self-report questionnaire. There was agreement that nurses had the necessary skills to promote health in general and had sufficient knowledge to promote health in the three specific areas explored: physical activity, smoking cessation and weight control. However, the findings also showed that the majority of participants wanted nurses to give priority to acute care over health promotion within the hospital setting and that patients dislike nurses asking about health-related behaviours when these are not directly relevant to their presenting health problems. Concerns were also raised about the language and cultural competency of a largely migrant nursing workforce to effectively communicate health promotion messages to patients. In view of the findings, policy-makers in Saudi Arabia need to consider providing appropriate training programmes for nurses to introduce the wider concept of their health promotion role. Health promotion protocols, strategies and standards to support nurses to more effectively implement health promotion with their routine practice are also required. It is suggested that, while reliance on a largely migrant workforce who do not speak Arabic continues, the potential benefits of a good quality interpretation service to improve nurse-patient communication should be considered.
Radiopaque foreign body inhalations.	The most frequent cause of accidental household death in children under 6 years of age is inhalation of a foreign body. Delayed management is blamed for death. The absence of a recognizable penetration syndrome complicates and delays not only the diagnosis but also the treatment of foreign body inhalation.
Nurses' willingness to report medication administration errors in Saudi Arabia.	Reporting of medication administration errors (MAEs) is one means by which health care facilities monitor their practice in an attempt to maintain the safest patient environment. This study examined the likelihood of registered nurses (RNs) reporting MAEs when working in Saudi Arabia. It also attempted to identify potential barriers in the reporting of MAE. This study found that 63% of RNs raised concerns about reporting of MAEs in Saudi Arabia-nursing administration was the largest impediment affecting nurses' willingness to report MAEs. Changing attitude to a non-blame system and implementation of anonymous reporting systems may encourage a greater reporting of MAEs.
Adding a conduit to GlideScope blade facilitates tracheal intubation. Prospective randomized study.	To determine the effect of modifying the GlideScope (GVL) blade on the intubation time.
Knowledge on adherence and safety of the oral contraceptive pill in Saudi women.	To assess knowledge regarding adherence and safety of oral contraceptive pills (OCP) in Saudi women.
Radioactive waste handling and disposal at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre.	King Faisal Specialist Hospital & Research Centre (KFSHRC) is the largest specialized medical center in Saudi Arabia. It performs highly specialized diagnostic imaging procedures with the use of various radionuclides required by sophisticated dual imaging systems. As a leading institution in cancer research, KFSHRC uses both long-lived and short-lived radionuclides. KFSHRC established the first cyclotron facility in the Middle East, which solved the in-house high demand for radionuclides and the difficulty in importing them. As both user and producer of high standard radiopharmaceuticals, KFSHRC generates large volumes of low and high level radioactive wastes. An old and small radioactive facility that was used for storage of radioactive waste was replaced with a bigger warehouse provided with facilities that will reduce radiation exposure of the staff, members of the public, and of the environment in the framework of "as low as reasonably achievable." The experiences and the effectiveness of the radiation protection program on handling and storage of radioactive wastes are presented.
Antimicrobial therapeutic determinants of outcomes from septic shock among patients with cirrhosis.	It is unclear whether practice-related aspects of antimicrobial therapy contribute to the high mortality from septic shock among patients with cirrhosis. We examined the relationship between aspects of initial empiric antimicrobial therapy and mortality in patients with cirrhosis and septic shock. This was a nested cohort study within a large retrospective database of septic shock from 28 medical centers in Canada, the United States, and Saudi Arabia by the Cooperative Antimicrobial Therapy of Septic Shock Database Research Group between 1996 and 2008. We examined the impact of initial empiric antimicrobial therapeutic variables on the hospital mortality of patients with cirrhosis and septic shock. Among 635 patients with cirrhosis and septic shock, the hospital mortality was 75.6%. Inappropriate initial empiric antimicrobial therapy was administered in 155 (24.4%) patients. The median time to appropriate antimicrobial administration was 7.3 hours (interquartile range, 3.2-18.3 hours). The use of inappropriate initial antimicrobials was associated with increased mortality (adjusted odds ratio [aOR], 9.5; 95% confidence interval [CI], 4.3-20.7], as was the delay in appropriate antimicrobials (aOR for each 1 hour increase, 1.1; 95% CI, 1.1-1.2). Among patients with eligible bacterial septic shock, a single rather than two or more appropriate antimicrobials was used in 226 (72.9%) patients and was also associated with higher mortality (aOR, 1.8; 95% CI, 1.0-3.3). These findings were consistent across various clinically relevant subgroups.
Effect of fasting for Ramadan on kidney graft function during the hottest month of the year (August) in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.	To assess the effect of fasting Ramadan during the hottest month of the year in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Distribution of naturally occurring radioactivity and ¹³⁷Cs in the marine sediment of Farasan Island, southern Red Sea, Saudi Arabia.	The present work is a part of a project dedicated to measure the marine radioactivity near the Saudi Arabian coasts of the Red Sea and Arabian Gulf for establishing a marine radioactivity database, which includes necessary information on the background levels of both naturally occurring and man-made radionuclides in the marine environment. Farasan Islands is a group of 84 islands (archipelago), under the administration of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, in the Red Sea with its main island of Farasan, which is 50 km off the coast of Jazan City. The levels of natural radioactivity of (238)U, (235)U, (226)Ra, (232)Th and (40)K and man-made radionuclides such as (137)Cs in the grab sediment and water samples around Farasan Island have been measured using gamma-ray spectroscopy. The average activity concentrations of (238)U, (235)U, (226)Ra, (232)Th, (40)K and (137)Cs in the sediment samples were found to be 35.46, 1.75, 3.31, 0.92, 34.34 and 0.14 Bq kg(-1), respectively.
Genomic analysis of pediatric cataract in Saudi Arabia reveals novel candidate disease genes.	Pediatric cataract is an important preventable blinding disease. Previous studies have estimated 10-25% of cases to be genetic in etiology.
The relationship between quality of work life and turnover intention of primary health care nurses in Saudi Arabia.	Quality of work life (QWL) has been found to influence the commitment of health professionals, including nurses. However, reliable information on QWL and turnover intention of primary health care (PHC) nurses is limited. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between QWL and turnover intention of PHC nurses in Saudi Arabia.
The dilemma of revealing sensitive information on paternity status in Arabian social and cultural contexts: telling the truth about paternity in Saudi Arabia.	Telling the truth is one of the most respected virtues in medical history and one of the most emphasized in the code of medical ethics. Health care providers are frequently confronted with the dilemma as to whether or not to tell the truth. This dilemma deepens when both choices are critically vicious: The choice is no longer between "right and right" or "right and wrong," it is between "wrong and wrong." In the case presented and discussed in this paper, a research team in Saudi Arabia unintentionally uncovered information regarding misattributed paternity. In such a situation and in the context of a tribal cultural system, what should the team do with this information? This case analysis demonstrates the joint application of ethical resources originating from within and outside the Saudi Arabian context. The article analyses the case based on the moral problems involved, relevant medical application, and the impact of such information in the Saudi tribal and Islamic domains. The most pertinent relevant values and secular debates on similar matters are discussed. Finally, the article aims to provide an Islamic dimension of family, fatherhood, and adultery.
Successes and challenges in the implementation and application of telemedicine in the eastern province of Saudi Arabia.	Telemedicine is the practice of healthcare using audio, video, and data communications. The aim of this study was to determine the perceptions of health professionals at hospitals adopting and not adopting telemedicine on its benefits and challenges, and their willingness to use it. The study was conducted at one hospital not adopting telemedicine and three hospitals adopting telemedicine. It was a cross-sectional descriptive study, and the target population was health professionals. Data collection methods included two paper-based questionnaires. Nonparametric statistical analysis and descriptive statistics were used. The study concluded that although telemedicine is promising and the Ministry of Health in Saudi Arabia has allocated a huge budget for e-health, the telemedicine modalities used were very limited. The percentage of adoption of telemedicine by health professionals was low in comparison to the high interest of nonadopters. Nonadopters' perception of benefits was higher than that of adopters. The most frequently cited benefits among adopters were improving the quality of care, enhancing access to healthcare, and providing patient care and management. However, adopters' perceptions were low for other benefits such as easy use of the network, the use of store-and-forward telemedicine, and the ability to follow up after face-to-face contacts. The greatest barrier as perceived by health providers was the lack of knowledge about telemedicine. Dissemination of information about telemedicine and proper training of health professionals on its use are recommended.
Environmental impact on the biological behavior of the cucurbit beetle the lady bird beetle (Epilachna chrysomellina) Coleoptera (Coccinellidae).	Epilachna chrysomelina (order Coleoptera, family Coccinellidae) is a phytophagous insect with an economic importance damaging the agricultural crops. The insect is abundant in the southern region of Saudi Arabia and choose the most favorable conditions for its life cycle completion. It prefers humid habitats with optimum temperature degrees. The generations of the insect are affected by changes in environmental conditions and its numbers increase or decline according to variation in temperature and relative humidity (RH). These factors play crucial role in changing its biological behavior particularly feeding, breeding, reproduction and development of its generations. There were significant differences between the different developmental stages in the periods of time of their development.
Role of postoperative antibiotics after appendectomy in non-perforated appendicitis.	To determine the role of postoperative antibiotics in reducing the surgical site infections (SSIs) after open appendectomy in patients with non-perforated appendicitis (NPA).
Camptodactyly-arthropathy-coxavara-pericarditis syndrome in Saudi Arabia: clinical and molecular genetic findings in 22 patients.	Camptodactyly-arthropathy-coxavara-pericarditis (CACP) syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the gene proteoglycan 4 (PRG4), affecting lubricin production, which is an essential protein for joint function. Manifestations vary between affected individuals with camptodactyly, early-onsetnon-inflammatory arthropathy, coxa vara deformity and non-inflammatory pericarditis.
Experiences of obesity among Saudi Arabian women contemplating bariatric surgery: an interpretative phenomenological analysis.	This study explored experiences of obesity, its perceived causes and motives for surgery, as described by seven Saudi women contemplating bariatric surgery. The women experienced cultural restrictions on their physical and social activities. Obesity embodied these restrictions, attracting stigma and moral failure. Traditional clothing, foods, hospitality norms and limited outdoor female activities were regarded as barriers to weight loss. Bariatric surgery was chosen to protect health and to access normative female roles. Some were encouraged by relatives who had undergone surgery. Opting for surgery reflected both participants' sense of powerlessness to self-manage weight and the social acceptability, within their family context, of this biomedical approach. 
Acinetobacter is the most common pathogen associated with late-onset and recurrent ventilator-associated pneumonia in an adult intensive care unit in Saudi Arabia.	The guidelines for initial empiric antimicrobial therapy for ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) are highly dependent on the type of causative pathogen and the time of diagnosis. The objective of this study was to examine the microbial causes of VAP and describe any variability by the timing of VAP onset and over time.
Revising the upper limit of normal for levels of serum alanine aminotransferase in a Middle Eastern population with normal liver histology.	Recently, the upper limits of normal (ULN) for alanine-aminotransferase (ALT) has been recommended to be lowered to ≤ 30 U/l in men and ≤ 19 U/l in women.
Hand hygiene non-compliance among intensive care unit health care workers in Aseer Central Hospital, south-western Saudi Arabia.	Hand hygiene is the undisputed single most effective infection control measure. The purpose of the current study was to measure the degree of compliance with hand hygiene practices among health care workers in intensive care facilities at Aseer Central Hospital (ACH), south-western Saudi Arabia.
Stroke awareness in the Saudi community living in Riyadh: prompt public health measures must be implemented.	Stroke is very prevalent in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, approaching 43.8 per 100,000 people. Stroke outcome is known to be affected by the level of stroke awareness in the community. We conducted this study to assess the level of stroke awareness in the Saudi population.
Selective cytotoxic effects on human breast carcinoma of new methoxylated flavonoids from Euryops arabicus grown in Saudi Arabia.	The chloroform-methanol extract of Euryops arabicus, collected from Saudi provenance, yielded a new kaurane diterpene (1) and seven methoxylated flavones (2-8), two of which are new (2 and 3). Structures of the compounds were elucidated through interpretation of spectral data of NMR, MS and comparison with literature values. All compounds were evaluated for their anti-tumor activities, employing four different cancer cell lines (WI-38, VERO, HepG2 and MCF-7), ABTS free radical scavenging and immunemodulatory effects. All metabolites had considerable antioxidant and immunestimulatory effects. All compounds showed anticancer activity with IC₅₀ in range 10-125 μM, whilst 2 and 6 showed significant anti-proliferative activity against HepG2 (IC₅₀ = 20 and 15 μM) and MCF-7 (IC₅₀ = 15 and 10 μM), respectively. This effect was attributed to significant S-phase cell cycle arrest.
Surface dispersion of uranium in the Al-Hayt area, NE Arabian Shield.	Al-Hayt area, although located on the Cenozoic basaltic plateau of Harrat Khaybar, is threatened by uranium contamination emanating mainly from the rhyolite hills of Asfar Thwelil just outside the eastern boundary of the lava field. This outcrop is an exhumed volcanic dome belonging to the Shammar Group of Late Proterozoic age. The rock units in this dome are porphyritic and flow rhyolites with some ignimbrites. The flow rhyolite is especially enriched in uranium and much of this is concentrated in thin vertical veins of uraninite and uranophane. Radiation measurements were carried out in the field using a portable gamma ray differential spectrometer that was capable of counting radiation at 5 spectral intervals representing uranium, thorium, potassium and total radiation (TC1 & TC2). Four traverses containing 67 points were made across the hills of Asfar Thwelil and nearby plains, and some measurements were also carried out in various parts of the Al-Hayt Town itself. Radiation measurements were also carried out in several parts of the eastern and northern shield for the sake of comparison. Soil samples for chemical analysis were also collected along the traverses and from the town and its main quarry. The samples were sieved to 3 sizes (coarse, medium and fine) and analyzed for 34 elements using the Neutron Activation technique. Results of the chemical analyses reveal the concentration of uranium and thorium in the fine soil fraction; although this may indicate adsorption onto clay minerals, a similar trend by immobile elements such as Zr, Hf, Ta, REE and Co rules out this possibility and points to heavy mineral concentration in the fine fraction as the main cause. Radiation was measured in 5 exploration trenches, and the upper layers (alluvium) were found to be the least radioactive, while layers containing salt and calcrete were highly enriched in radioactive elements. Correlation coefficients from soil samples are strongly in favor of the concentration of U & Th with other incompatible elements in heavy minerals such as zircon. Factor analysis of the same samples provides a number of underlying causes that control their chemistry; most important of all is the heavy mineral content followed by the influence of basaltic detritus form the Harrah. 
Identification of three novel ECEL1 mutations in three families with distal arthrogryposis type 5D.	Arthrogryposis refers to congenital contracture in at least two different body parts. When distal joints are primarily involved, the term distal arthrogryposis (DA) is used. The recognition of clinically distinct subtypes of DA has proven very useful in mapping the disease genes for this genetically heterogeneous condition. DA5D is characterized by ocular involvement usually in the form of ptosis and incomitant strabismus, but extraocular manifestations have also been reported. In a multiplex consanguineous family with DA5D, we combined autozygosity mapping and exome sequencing to identify a novel mutation in ECEL1. This was followed by targeted sequencing of this gene in another two extended consanguineous family with the same phenotype, which revealed two additional novel homozygous mutations. Our results support the recent identification of mutations in ECEL1 as a disease gene in DA5D and expand the clinical and allelic spectrum of this condition. 
Assessing oral cancer knowledge among Saudi medical undergraduates.	Oral cancer is the sixth most common malignancy worldwide with more than 263,000 patients diagnosed in 2008. Nonspecialists' negative attitudes and poor working knowledge of oral cancer significantly contribute to suboptimal detection of early-stage disease which leads to delays in diagnosis. We aimed to assess the working knowledge and views associated with oral cancer prevention among medical students in Saudi Arabia. A cross-sectional questionnaire-based survey of 4th, 5th, and 6th year undergraduate medical students was undertaken. Questions included knowledge of oral cancer, risk factors, and opinions on oral cancer prevention. The overall response rate was 82 % (137/167). Mean score of cancer knowledge was 57.8 % which was below the expected standard of 70 %. Only 53 % correctly answered all questions related to oral cancer. This result had no association with either the academic year (p = 0.23) or gender (p = 0.37). Interestingly, 72 % of the respondents did not feel confident in performing an oral examination. Sixty-three percent of the medical students believed it to be beyond their role to aid patients in smoking cessation measures or to take part in other disease preventative strategies. This study demonstrates a dearth of knowledge relating to the diagnosis and management of oral cancer among clinical students within an established Saudi medical school. An immediate refinement of current medical curricula to address these deficiencies is warranted.
Critical cultural competence for culturally diverse workforces: toward equitable and peaceful health care.	In this article, we argue that attaining equity, and therefore peace in health care delivery, necessitates that nursing and other health care professions more carefully attend to the sociocultural context in which health care is delivered. That sociocultural context includes culturally diverse patients, families, and communities, as well as health care providers who are themselves culturally diverse. We draw on findings from Almutairi's doctoral research with health care providers in Saudi Arabia to argue for what he has identified as critical cultural competence for health care providers. In so doing, we explicate the complexity of cultural and linguistic issues and power relations induced by race, class, and gender that can contribute to vulnerabilities for health care providers and recipients alike. 
In vitro antiprotozoal activity of triterpenoid constituents of Kleinia odora growing in Saudi Arabia.	Two lupane and four ursane triterpenes, namely epilupeol (1), lupeol acetate (2), ursolic acid (3), brein (4), 3β 11α-dihydroxy urs-12-ene (5) and ursolic acid lactone (6) were isolated from aerial parts of Kleinia odora and identified. Compounds 1 and 3-6 were isolated for the first time from K. odora. The triterpene constituents were investigated for antiprotozoal potential against erythrocytic schizonts of Plasmodium falciparum, intracellular amastigotes of Leishmania infantum and Trypanosoma cruzi and free trypomastigotes of T. brucei. Cytotoxicity was determined against MRC-5 fibroblasts to assess selectivity. The ursane triterpenes were found to be active against more than one type of the tested parasites, with the exception of compound 6. This is also the first report on the occurrence of ursane type triterpenes in the genus Kleinia and their antiprotozoal potential against P. falciparum, L. infantum, T. cruzi, and T. brucei. 
Investigating the impact of an emergency information system on patient's length of stay in the emergency department of a tertiary hospital in Saudi Arabia.	The emergency department has a crucial role in saving patient's lives. Efficient and reliable information through reliable information systems contribute to effective communication in these situations and ultimately shorter lengths of stay (LOS). This exploratory, cross-sectional study evaluates a current legacy emergency system in a tertiary hospital and investigates its impact on patient's length of stay (LOS) in the emergency department. A significantly shorter LOS was found between patients whose information was available and was communicated effectively in comparison to patients whose data were not available. Furthermore, longer LOS was associated with patients who required clinical services (pathology, radiology) due to the manual retrieval of results. This study has found that future implementation of a comprehensive electronic information system will facilitate effective communication workflow and timely access to patient data in the emergency department. 
National electronic medical records integration on cloud computing system.	Few Healthcare providers have an advanced level of Electronic Medical Record (EMR) adoption. Others have a low level and most have no EMR at all. Cloud computing technology is a new emerging technology that has been used in other industry and showed a great success. Despite the great features of Cloud computing, they haven't been utilized fairly yet in healthcare industry. This study presents an innovative Healthcare Cloud Computing system for Integrating Electronic Health Record (EHR). The proposed Cloud system applies the Cloud Computing technology on EHR system, to present a comprehensive EHR integrated environment. 
Five Arab children with glucose-galactose malabsorption.	Five children with glucose-galactose malabsorption (GGM) are presented. Two infants from Saudi Arabia were first-degree relatives, the third infant was unrelated and the other two were of Yemeni and Syrian origin, respectively. All the infants had chronic diarrhoea and four had failed to thrive since early infancy. All had stools positive for reducing substances, and sugar chromatography showed glucose and galactose malabsorption. Small bowel biopsies were normal in all. One infant developed gangrene of both legs as a complication of hypernatraemia and dehydration, necessitating bilateral amputation. Two infants had nephrolithiasis. All the infants responded well to fructose-based formulae. GGM should be considered in the differential diagnosis of chronic diarrhoea in infants breastfed or artificially fed from early life. 
Mobile teledermatology--patient satisfaction, diagnostic and management concordance, and factors affecting patient refusal to participate in Saudi Arabia.	We evaluated the use of a 4G smart phone for mobile teledermatology. A dermatologist took pictures of skin images with a mobile phone (8 Mpixel camera resolution) and made a face-to-face diagnosis. The images were transmitted to a second dermatologist who viewed them on a similar mobile phone and made an independent diagnosis for comparison. Images were taken and transmitted only after receiving informed consent from the patients. A total of 166 consecutive patients were included in the study (97 male and 69 female). A questionnaire to assess patient satisfaction was administered to each patient. Most of the responders were highly satisfied with teledermatology. However, 23 patients (14%) refused photography of the skin lesions (21 female and 2 males). The main reasons for refusal to be photographed were stated as social or religious. The broad categorical diagnostic and management concordance (i.e. when considering at least one of the diagnoses to be similar) was 95%. Specific diagnostic concordance varied according to the disease. The average kappa coefficient was 0.66 for diagnostic concordance and 0.82 for management concordance. Refusal to be photographed--a problem not limited to teledermatology--needs to be considered when designing teledermatology protocols for larger scale implementation in areas like the Middle East.
Children's glycemic control: mother's knowledge and socioeconomic status.	The present study was designed to examine the role of socioeconomic status (SES) of the mother's knowledge about different aspects of diabetes and the glycemic control of type 1 children with diabetes. Samples were taken from successive admissions to the outpatient diabetes clinics in Prince Sultan Medical Military City (PSMMC), Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. A well designed questionnaire covering different aspects including demographic data, educational background, and socioeconomic status of the care providers was used to collect information from mothers of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) children. The questionnaire was designed on the basis of the Michigan diabetes knowledge scale and also on the basis of food habits of Saudi Arabia and it was validated. The questionnaire was completed after interviewing the mothers during visits to the PSMMC hospital. Every mother was asked with those particular questions. Glycemic control was assessed by glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c). The socio-demographic data of mothers was recorded by self-report. It was found that, there was significant variation in the knowledge of diabetes among mothers with different ages (P 0.05). No significant results were observed between family income and diabetes knowledge (p>0.05).However, a positive relationship was observed with higher income and higher knowledge. There was a significant association between mothers knowledge of diabetes and HbA1C level (r = -0.1739, p.<0.05) indicating that, higher knowledge ultimately leads to greater control of HbA1c level. A significant association was also observed between education and HbA1c level (r=-02538, p<0.05) with children of mothers with higher level of education showing a better control of glycated haemoglobin levels. However, no significant association was found between monthly family income and HbA1C level. In conclusion, the current study illustrated that, mothers with more knowledge of diabetes and with better education were maintaining a better glycemic control of their children, irrespective of the socio-economic status. It was found that, to improve glycemic control and to decrease acute and chronic complications of diabetes in children, mother's knowledge and education is needed.
Do diabetic dialysis patients require more or less of erythropoietin?	To evaluate differences in erythropoietin requirements between diabetic and non-diabetic patients on hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis.
Ecology and habitat characterization of mosquitoes in Saudi Arabia.	The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) contains many of the world's mosquito vectors of parasitic and arboviral diseases. However, few studies addressed their geographic distribution and larval habitat characteristics. We carried out a 14-months mosquito survey in three KSA regions: Makkah and Al-Baha (western) and Jezan (south-western). Larvae were collected by dipping from various water habitats and adults by CDC light and BG sentinel traps. Climatic conditions and physicochemical characteristics of collection sites were recorded. We collected a total of 3331 mosquitoes {larvae (n= 2766, 83%) and adults (n= 565, 17%)} of 21 species from six genera (8 Anopheles, 8 Culex, 1 Aedes and 3 others). Larval water habitats included streams, rocky pits, seepage, leakage and containers (plastic and concrete). Of the total larvae collected, 52% (n= 1439) were Anopheles, 44.3% (n= 1226) were Culex, 0.51% (n= 14) were Aedes aegypti and 3.1% (n= 87) were from four other species. The most abundant species were Culex tritaeniorhynchus (n=1008, ~36.3%) and Anopheles dthali (n= 976, ~35.3%). The medically-important species were Anopheles arabiensis (n= 128) and Anopheles sergenti (n= 58), vectors of malaria and Culex tritaeniorhynchus, Culex quinquefasciatus (n= 53) and Ae. aegypti (n= 14), vectors of arboviral diseases. Three species are new records in KSA and all from Jezan: Anopheles superpictus (n= 3), Culex duttoni (n= 1) and Culex mimeticus (n= 1), however the numbers were very low, which requires further investigations. Only two species were collected in the adult stage, Cx. quinquefasciatus (n= 561: 551 females and 10 males) from Makkah and Culex theileri (n= 4, all females) from Al-Baha. Only 3.8% (n= 21) of Cx. quinquefasciatus females were blood-fed. This study provides new information on the bionomics of 21 mosquito species in KSA including six dominant vector species and thus adds to the scarce data available on them. This information is essential to better understand mosquito population dynamics in relation to disease transmission and control. 
Seasonal concentrations of lead in outdoor and indoor dust and blood of children in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.	Because detrimental effects of exposure to lead (Pb) on human health have been observed, we previously investigated concentrations of Pb in water supplies and blood of adult residents of Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The objectives of the present study were to: (1) examine seasonal rates of deposition of Pb in dust in several areas of Riyadh city, (2) measure concentrations of Pb in both outdoor and indoor dust, (3) compare concentrations of Pb in dust in Riyadh with those reported for other cities, and (4) quantify Pb in blood of children living in Riyadh. Mean, monthly deposition of PB in outdoor dust was 4.7 × 10(1) ± 3.6 tons km(-2), with a mean Pb concentration of 2.4 × 10(2) ± 4.4 × 10(1) μg/g. Mean, monthly deposition of Pb in indoor dust was 2.7 ± 0.70 tons km(-2), with a mean concentration of 2.9 × 10(1) ± 1.5 × 10(1) μg Pb/g. There was a significant (P < 0.01) correlation between concentrations of Pb in outdoor and indoor dust. There was no correlation between concentrations of Pb in indoor dust and that in blood of children of Riyadh, whereas there was a weakly significant (P < 0.05) correlation between concentrations of Pb in outdoor dust and that in blood of children. The mean (±SD) concentration of Pb in blood of children in Riyadh was 5.2 ± 1.7, with a range of 1.7-1.6 × 10(1) μg/dl. Concentrations of Pb in blood of 17.8 % of children in Riyadh were greater than 10 μg/dl, which is the CDC's level of concern.
Safety and efficacy of combined cyclophosphamide and rituximab treatment in recalcitrant childhood lupus.	To report the safety and efficacy of combined cyclophosphamide and rituximab treatment in Saudi children with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Medical records of all children with SLE treated with cyclophosphamide and rituximab between June 2007 and June 2012 at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center, Riyadh, were reviewed for demographic characteristics, age at diagnosis, concomitant treatments, indication of using rituximab and adverse events during the treatment period. Clinical and serologic response parameters included SLE Disease Activity Index (SLEDAI), complement, anti-ds DNA antibody and ANA levels, and mean daily corticosteroid dose assessed 3 months before combined cyclophosphamide and rituximab infusion course and at 6-month interval afterward. Sixteen patients (13 girls) with refractory SLE treated with cyclophosphamide and rituximab were included. The mean age at onset of SLE was 7.8 + 3.3 years, while the mean age at diagnosis was 8.1 + 3.4 years; the mean disease duration was 4.7 + 3.2 years. All patients were treated with corticosteroid and immunosuppressive drugs. Nephritis (8 patients) was the most frequent indication; other indications included refractory arthritis, thrombocytopenia, severe mucocutaneous lesions and central nervous system involvement. All patients received 2 doses, but 4 required 4-8 extra doses. All patients showed improvement in response parameters. There was significant reduction in SLEDAI (P < 0.0002) and corticosteroid dose (P < 0.005). A total of 4 adverse events were notified; 2 developed infusion-related reactions. One patient had severe soft tissue fungal infection, and other patient had pancreatitis. Our data showed beneficial therapeutic and steroid-sparing effects of rituximab as adjunctive treatment for children with refractory SLE including both renal and extrarenal manifestations. Although rituximab was well tolerated by the majority of patients, it may associated with various adverse events.
A profile of primary hepatocellular carcinoma patients in the Gizan Area of Saudi Arabia.	Clinical, laboratory, and ultrasonographic features of 75 patients of primary hepatocellular carcinoma (PHC) living in the Gizan Area of Saudi Arabia and their follow-up, during a 2-year period, were characterized. Eighty-nine percent of the cases were defined histologically, whereas in the rest, ultrasonographic (US) evidence along with an alphafetoprotein (AFP) level exceeding 480 ng/ml were taken as the positive evidence for PHC. Eighty percent of the cases were male patients, with the peak incidence during the seventh decade. The most common clinical presentations were hepatic enlargement (91%), abdominal pain (76%), splenic enlargement (33%), and acites (33%), followed by bruit, fever, metastases, and varices. Alteration in a liver function test was manifest in 97% of the cases, AFP values greater than 480 ng/ml in 57%, and a hepatitis B virus surface antigen (HBsAg) positivity in 65% of the cases. There was no intersex variation in positivity for HBsAg, antibody to HBsAg (anti-HBs), antibody to hepatitis B virus core antigen (anti-HBc) among the 30 PHC cases studied. Positivity for HBsAg or the overall hepatitis B virus exposure in PHC cases was higher than the normal controls (P less than 0.001). In addition to histologic confirmation of PHC in 67 cases, there was histologic evidence of cirrhosis in 25%, or chronic active hepatitis in 19% of the cases. At the time of diagnosis, the average duration of the presenting illness was less than 2 months, while the mortality in the ensuing 2-month period was 73%. The average span of total illness in the vast majority of cases was 4 to 6 months. Two female patients (one with fibrolamellar carcinoma) however, survived for 2 years. Immunization against hepatitis B virus should be considered for all newborns in such hyperendemic communities. A continuous program should be started in such communities to screen and immunize all those yet unexposed to hepatitis B virus. The established HBsAg carriers should be periodically examined ultrasonographically along with an AFP estimation for initiating the chemotherapeutic and other measures against PHC in fairly early stages of malignancy.
Novel PHKG2 mutation causing GSD IX with prominent liver disease: report of three cases and review of literature.	Glycogen storage disease type IX (GSD IX) is a common form of glycogenosis due to mutations in PHKA1, PHKA2, or PHKB and PHKG2 genes resulting in the deficiency of phosphorylase kinase. The first two genes are X-linked while the latter two follow an autosomal recessive inheritance. The majority of cases of GSD IX are attributed to defects in PHKA2 which usually cause a mild disease. We report three patients with PHKG2-related GSD IX presenting with significant hepatic involvement, fibrosis, and cirrhosis. Interestingly, the homozygosity mapping resolved a dilemma about an erroneously normal phosphorylase kinase activity in patient 1. The novel mutation found in all the three patients (p.G220E) affects the catalytic subunit of the phosphorylase kinase. Increasing evidence shows that patients with PHKG2 mutations have a severe hepatic phenotype within the heterogeneous GSD IX disorder. Therefore, defect in PHKG2 should be considered in patients with suspected glycogenosis associated with significant liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. 
Group B strains of human respiratory syncytial virus in Saudi Arabia: molecular and phylogenetic analysis.	The genetic variability and circulation pattern of human respiratory syncytial virus group B (HRSV-B) strains, identified in Riyadh during the winters of 2008 and 2009, were evaluated by partial sequencing of the attachment (G) protein gene. The second hypervariable region (HVR-2) of G gene was amplified by RT-PCR, sequenced and compared to representatives of different HRSV-B genotypes. Sequence and phylogenetic analysis revealed that all Saudi strains belonged to the genotype BA, which is characterized by 60-nucleotide duplication at HVR-2. Only strains of 2008 were clustered with subgroup BA-IV, while those isolated at 2009 were clustered among the most recent subgroups (particularly BA-X and CB-B). Amino acid sequence analysis demonstrated 18 amino acid substitutions in Saudi HRSV-B strains; among which five are specific for individual strains. Furthermore, two potential N-glycosylation sites at residues 230 and 296 were identified for all Saudi strains, and an additional site at amino acid 273 was found only in Riyadh 28/2008 strain. O-glycosylation was predicted in 42-43 sites, where the majority (no = 38) are highly conserved among Saudi strains. The average ratio between non-synonymous and synonymous mutations (ω) implied stabilizing selection pressure on G protein, with evidences of positive selection on certain Saudi strains. This report provides preliminary data on the circulation pattern and molecular characteristics of HRSV-B strains circulating in Saudi Arabia.
Homozygous sickle cell disease and priapism in the eastern province of Saudi Arabia.	Two adult sickle cell homozygotes from the eastern oases of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia presented with severe persistent priapism. Each patient had a high Hb F of 24%, and their red cells were neither hypochromic nor microcytic. Priapism probably occurs more frequently in homozygous sickle cell disease than reported previously from this region. It would appear that a high fetal haemoglobin alone without hypochromia and microcytosis--features suggestive of co-existing alpha-thalassaemia--does not protect against this agonizing vaso-occlusive event.
Rotavirus as an important cause of diarrhoea in a hospital for children in Dammam, Saudi Arabia.	A major cause of morbidity and mortality among children in developing countries is acute diarrhoea and rotavirus, a reovirus-like agent, is found to be a leading causative agent. We report here the incidence of rotavirus infection among infants and young children with gastro-enteritis treated at the Children's Hospital in Dammam, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. One hundred and fifty children, aged between 1 and 60 months, suffering from diarrhoeal illness, were selected as the study cohort; another 150 hospitalized children of the same age group, but not suffering from diarrhoea, served as controls. Sixty-two per cent of the study children complained of watery diarrhoea and 39% of vomiting; all had mild to moderate dehydration. Seventy-two per cent had fever and 30% associated respiratory illness. Worst affected were those 7-12 months old, among whom rotavirus was detected by ELISA techniques in 39.6%, compared with 7.5% of the control children of comparable age group. We could not detect any rotavirus from control children aged over 36 months, whereas approximately 15% of the study children in this age group yielded rotavirus from the stool. The second most common pathogen isolated was Shigella ssp. It was isolated from 18.7% of children under study as against 3% of the controls.
Fever in children: diagnosis and management by nurses, medical students, doctors and parents.	Thirty-six nurses, 18 final year medical students, 24 doctors and 36 parents were questioned about their understanding and management of the symptom "fever". There was an obvious tendency to over-diagnose fever by the nursing and medical staff. Antipyretics and sponging were unnecessarily prescribed. Most parents do not have a thermometer and have minimal understanding of fever and its management, and 37% regard fever as a cause of brain damage. Their main sources of information on the subject derive from relatives and friends: only 9% mentioned nurses or doctors as their source of information. Medical students receive little teaching on fever. It is recommended that more time should be devoted to teaching nurses, medical students and junior doctors about fever and they in turn should educate parents on the subject.
Parity and vitamin D metabolites.	Twenty-five hydroxycalciferol (25-OHD), 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH)2D), calcium (Ca), phosphorus (P), alkaline phosphatase, and total protein were estimated in 86 Saudi pregnant women. They were divided into two groups, group I, parity 5 or more, and group II, parity 4 or less. The mean level of 25-OHD was 10.4 (S.D. 6.5) ng/ml in group I, and for group II 8.2 (6.1) ng/ml with no significant statistical difference between the groups. 1,25(OH)2D mean levels, in group I 45.5 (S.D. 30.2) ng/ml and in group II 36.9 (S.D. 27.1) pg/ml, also showed no significant difference. Levels of vitamin D metabolites were comparable with non-pregnant levels in Saudi Arabia but lower than others reported in Western populations. We found no effect of increasing parity on levels of vitamin D metabolites in our study.
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in Saudi Arabia: prognostic factors and an analysis of the outcome of combination chemotherapy only, for both localized and advanced disease.	Seventy-eight previously untreated patients with clinical stage (CS) I and II (42 patients) and CS III and IV (36 patients) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) were treated with systemic chemotherapy only. All patients had intermediate or high grade lymphoma. Two different regimens were used: bleomycin, adriamycin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone (BACOP); and a combination of methotrexate with folinic acid rescue, epirubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone and bleomycin (MECOP-B), for 57 and 21 patients respectively. Objective clinical remission was achieved in 90% of the cases, of which 73% were complete. Complete remission (CR) was demonstrated in 90% and 53% of patients with CS I + II and III + IV respectively (P = 0.0008). Two variables, bone marrow and liver involvement, were negatively associated with CR rate in a multivariate analysis. The actuarial overall survival for the entire group was 65%. The median survival for complete responders has not been reached, but a projected 80% relapse-free survival at 3 years is estimated. The Cox proportional hazards model predicted that advanced stage (CS III and IV) and pretreatment lactic dehydrogenase serum level above 400 iu/l (N less than 200 iu/l) independently influenced survival adversely. The latter prognostic variables were used to identify several groups with different risk probabilities. Despite an apparent comparability between patients receiving the two regimens, no significant difference in response or survival rates was noted between the two protocols. We conclude that the results of systemic chemotherapy compared favorably with radiation therapy for early stage disease and is an acceptable strategy for developing countries with limited availability of radiotherapy facilities. Based on certain risk factors, therapy should be individualized so that more intense regimens, with or without radiation, should be offered only to those patients in the high risk group at highly specialized centers.
Patient safety culture in a large teaching hospital in Riyadh: baseline assessment, comparative analysis and opportunities for improvement.	In light of the immense attention given to patient safety, this paper details the findings of a baseline assessment of the patient safety culture in a large hospital in Riyadh and compares results with regional and international studies that utilized the Hospital Survey on Patient Safety Culture. This study also aims to explore the association between patient safety culture predictors and outcomes, considering respondent characteristics and facility size.
Congenital glucose-galactose malabsorption: a descriptive study of clinical characteristics and outcome from Western Saudi Arabia.	Congenital glucose galactose malabsorption (CGGM) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by a defect in the sodium-coupled transport of glucose and galactose across the intestinal brush border presenting with neonatal diarrhoea. The aim of this study was to report the clinical and laboratory characteristics of patients with CGGM from the Western Saudi Arabia.
Liver donation and transplantation in Saudi Arabia.	The aim of the study was to evaluate and analyze the results of liver transplants from living and deceased donors in Saudi Arabia.
A comparative study of free oligosaccharides in the milk of domestic animals.	The present study was conducted to obtain a comprehensive overview of oligosaccharides present in the milk of a variety of important domestic animals including cows, goats, sheep, pigs, horses and dromedary camels. Using an analytical workflow that included ultra-performance liquid chromatography-hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection coupled to quadrupole time-of-flight MS, detailed oligosaccharide libraries were established. The partial or full characterisation of the neutral/fucosylated, phosphorylated and sialylated structures was facilitated by sequencing with linkage- and sugar-specific exoglycosidases. Relative peak quantification of the 2-aminobenzamide-labelled oligosaccharides provided additional information. Milk from domestic animals contained a much larger variety of complex oligosaccharides than was previously assumed, and thirteen of these structures have been identified previously in human milk. The direct comparison of the oligosaccharide mixtures reflects their role in the postnatal maturation of different types of gastrointestinal systems, which, in this way, are prepared for certain post-weaning diets. The potential value of animal milk for the commercial extraction of oligosaccharides to be used in human and animal health is highlighted. 
Perception of BDS students and fresh graduates about significance of professional ethics in dentistry.	To assess the awareness level of undergraduate dentistry students as well as fresh graduates about the significance of professional ethics.
The antibacterial activity of traditionally used Salvadora persica L. (miswak) and Commiphora gileadensis (palsam) in Saudi Arabia.	Nowadays there is a need to find naturally occurring substances from plants with antimicrobial activity as an alternative to available used antibiotics.
Venoarterial modified ultrafiltration versus conventional arteriovenous modified ultrafiltration during cardiopulmonary bypass surgery.	Different types of modified ultrafiltration (MUF) systems evaluated showed that none of the MUF techniques adhered to the normal venous to arterial blood flow dynamics. This study compared a conventional arteriovenous modified ultrafiltration (AVMUF) system to a custom- designed venoarterial modified ultrafiltration (VAMUF) system.
Nasal bone length in Saudi rhinoplasty: a clinical-radiological study.	Hump reduction in the presence of short nasal bones can result in significant esthetic and/or functional problems in patients seeking rhinoplasty in the Middle East. The aims of this study were to determine the mean length of nasal bones, amount of nasal dorsum it forms in relation to the whole nose, and incidence of short nasal bones in the Middle Eastern population.
Pentalogy of Cantrell: first case reported in Saudi Arabia.	Pentalogy of Cantrell (PC) is a rare congenital anomaly involving defects in the anterior diaphragm, supraumbilical abdominal wall, diaphragmatic pericardium, and lower sternum, and other congenital intracardiac abnormalities. Here, we report the case of a newborn infant who was born at 32 weeks of gestation and had all 5 features of PC, in addition to absent kidneys and a deformed left hand. Medical intervention would not be able to save the patient, so we allowed her to die in peace. We discuss here the etiology, prenatal diagnosis, and severity of and the mortality associated with this condition. To our knowledge, this was the first reported case of PC in Saudi Arabia.
Association of VDR-gene variants with factors related to the metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes and vitamin D deficiency.	The prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MetS) is rising alarmingly in the Saudi Arabian population. This study was conducted to assess the association between vitamin D receptor (VDR) polymorphisms and genetic susceptibility to components of the metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and vitamin D deficiency in the Saudi Arabian population. Five-hundred-seventy Saudi individuals (285 MetS and 285 controls) were enrolled in this cross-sectional study. TaqI, BsmI, ApaI and FokI single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the VDR gene were genotyped. The CT genotype and allele T of BsmI were associated with lower HDL-C levels [OR 0.60 (0.37, 0.96), p=0.03] and obesity [OR 1.4 (1.0, 1.90), p=0.04], respectively. The CT genotype and the dominant model CT+TT of BsmI were associated with increased risk of diabetes [OR 1.7 (1.2, 2.4), p=0.007], and [OR 1.5 (1.1, 2.2), p=0.01], respectively. On the contrary, the CT and CT+CC genotypes of FokI exhibited an association with a reduced risk of diabetes [OR 0.70 (0.49, 0.99), p=0.05] and [OR 0.67 (0.48, 0.94), p=0.02], respectively. The allele C of FokI was associated with lower risk of developing T2DM [OR 0.73 (0.56, 0.95), p=0.02]. The prevalence of vitamin D deficiency was lower in subjects with the AC genotype of ApaI [OR, 0.34 (0.14, 0.80), p=0.01]. Components of the MetS such as obesity, low HDL and T2DM were associated with the VDR gene. FokI and BsmI have protective and facilitative effects on the risk for T2DM, while the ApaI genotype was associated with reduced vitamin D deficiency.
Impact of atopic dermatitis on the quality of life of Saudi children.	To assess the impact of atopic dermatitis (AD) on the quality of life (QoL) of Saudi infants and children using a validated/culturally adapted Arabic version of the infants` dermatitis quality of life (IDQoL) index, and to investigate the correlation between IDQoL and disease severity.
Relationship of the Arabic version of the asthma control test with ventilatory function tests and levels of exhaled nitric oxide in adult asthmatics.	To determine the relationship between the asthma control test (ACT) score using the Arabic version, fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FENO), and lung functions, and to derive the cutoff points for the ACT score with the American Thoracic Society recommended FENO standard levels of inflammation control.
Knowledge about cervical cancer early warning signs and symptoms, risk factors and vaccination among students at a medical school in Al-Ahsa, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.	Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer among females and also the most preventable. In the literature there is abundant evidence that awareness regarding cervical cancer and its prevention is low in the developing countries. Medical students are the future health professionals and can play an important role in increasing awareness among the general population. To assess the knowledge regarding symptoms, risk factors and prevention of cervical carcinoma among medical students in th Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the present study was planned.
Perception of patients with cancer towards support management services and use of complementary alternative medicine--a single institution hospital-based study in Saudi Arabia.	To evaluate the perception of cancer patients toward treatment services and influencing factors and to inquire about the use of complementary alternative medicine (CAM).
Profile of colorectal polyps: a retrospective study from King Fahad Hospital, Madinah, Saudi Arabia.	To evaluate the predominant colorectal polyps in the Almadinah region of Saudi Arabia.
Is the desert lung syndrome (nonoccupational dust pneumoconiosis) a variant of pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis? Report of 4 cases with review of the literature.	Four cases of pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis are presented. These patients had heavy exposure to sand particles for long periods. This is to hypothesize that those sand particles are responsible for triggering a hyperimmune response resulting in the formation of microlithiasis. Previously expressed theories had linked microlithiasis to external irritants and the condition has similarities with desert lung syndrome, a disease definitely caused by the deposition of sand silica in the lungs.
Enzyme immunoassay in the diagnosis of Chlamydia trachomatis infections in diverse patient groups.	An enzyme immunoassay (EIA) in parallel with cell culture was used to investigate the extent of infections due to Chlamydia trachomatis. EIA reactive confirmed in cell culture was taken as positive. C. trachomatis was found in 6 (26.0%) of 23 men with symptomatic non-gonococcal urethritis (NGU), ten (17.2%) of 58 symptom-free males and in three of 4 with postgonococcal urethritis. Among 106 asymptomatic pregnant women studied the incidence of C. trachomatis was 8.5% while a higher incidence (16.7%) was found in those with symptoms. C. trachomatis positivity in asymptomatic and symptomatic post-natal screening were 11.4% and 7.7%. Of 43 symptomatic non-pregnant females investigated, 7 (16.3%) were found to be positive for C. trachomatis. Of 3 women with PID, 2 (66.7%) harboured C. trachomatis in their cervix while in another 29 infertile women, C. trachomatis was positive in 3 (8.1%). Contraceptives appeared to have an effect on the chlamydial positivity. Comparative testing of EIA with the standard cell culture method in this study indicate EIA as a suitable alternative for the definitive diagnosis of chlamydial infection in high prevalence settings and with caution in low prevalence settings.
The intestinal parasitic infections among children in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.	A total of 5421 children, 2726 apparently healthy and 2695 with clinical manifestations suggestive parasitic infection were subjected to stool examinations. Giardia lamblia was found to be the most common intestinal parasitic infection among both groups. Enterobius vermicularis followed among the patient group. Abdominal pain and pruritus ani were the most common causes of referral in the patient group. Other causes of referral were mainly associated with G. lamblia infection.
The outcome of head injuries: the Saudi experience.	One analysis of the outcome of 159 cases of head injuries was based on patients' admission Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS), score, age, CT scan findings and uniform protocol of management. Fifty-three percent of the patients were children below the age of 10 years and 70% of all patients were Saudis. Eighty-point-five percent (80.5%) of the patients had a GCS score of 8 or more and their outcome was favorable. By contract, the 19.5% who had an initial GCS score of 7 or less tended to be older and had a worse prognosis (mortality 68%). A high initial GCS score, old age, associated multiple injuries and a shift of more than 4 mm of the midline structures on CT scan of the brain are useful prognostic indices in predicting the outcome of head injury.
Haplotypes of alpha-globin-gene in the Saudi population--the triplicated gene (alpha alpha alpha anti 3.7/).	Using restriction endonucleases Bam HI, Bg1 II, Hpa I, Hind III and Xba I, the alpha alpha alpha anti 3.7/ haplotype was studied in the Saudi population. This paper presents the frequency of the alpha gene haplotype alpha alpha alpha anti 3.7/ in different regions of Saudi Arabia, where thalassaemia occurs at a high frequency.
Testicular seminomas in Saudi Arabia: clinical characteristics, prognostic indicators, and recommendations for management.	Thirty Saudi patients with pure testicular seminoma were treated at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, between January 1977 and June 1983. Disease characteristics in Saudi Arabia including clinical findings, response to therapy, and prognosis are described and compared to those in other populations reported in the literature. Symptom durations were 3 to 42 months. Many of the patients presented with an extensive tumor burden and a poor performance status. There was a higher incidence of anaplastic seminoma and of cryptorchidism than in other series and a relatively high incidence of elevated betahuman chorionic gonadotropin (B-HCG). Patients initially underwent funiculo-orchiectomy. Twenty-two patients received radiation therapy and four received chemotherapy. Patients with limited disease responded well to orchiectomy and radiation therapy. However, those with extensive tumor burden had an unsatisfactory response to radiation therapy. Preradiation chemotherapy is recommended for patients with massive retroperitoneal metastases, nodal disease above the diaphragm, or extranodal disease and patients with minimal or moderate sized retroperitoneal nodal disease associated with an elevated B-HCG.
Cesarean section; changing patterns in Saudi Arabia.	Analysis of 8000 cesarean births in the Maternity and Children's Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia documents an increase in the cesarean section (CS) rate from 3.9% in 1979 to 9.9% in 1984. This increase is mainly attributed to indications such as repeat section (37.2%) and fetal distress (28.5%). Increase in the diagnosis of fetal distress was related to the introduction of electronic fetal monitoring and this diagnosis was not substantiated by Apgar score of the neonate. Because of the social preference for large families in Saudi Arabia, over-use of cesarean section should be avoided. For this reason, critical analysis of fetal distress and adequate trial of labor for patients with previous cesarean section is mandatory.
Vaginal birth after cesarean section: management debate.	Obstetric performance of 1847 women with previous cesarean section (CS) during the years 1983 and 1984 were studied. Vaginal birth after cesarean section (VBAC) was attempted in 94% of females with one previous CS, 4% in those with two previous CS, and one among the 70 patients with three or more previous CS. VBAC was achieved in 51% of those with one previous CS. It was successful in 60% of parturients with CS for non-recurrent causes, 36% of CS for cephalopelvic disproportion (CPD) and in 64% of those with a prior vaginal delivery. Uterine scar dehiscence was found in 0.9% of all patients with a previous CS. A failed attempt with Ventouse to achieve VBAC caused maximum maternal and perinatal morbidity.
Double heterozygote leftward/rightward deletion type alpha-thalassaemia in Saudi Arabs.	Restriction endonucleases have been used for the investigation of deletion type alpha-thalassaemias in the Saudi population. Using Bgl II digestion, we diagnosed 2 cases with 15.8- and 7.0-kb alpha-globin gene fragments. The 15.8-kb Bgl II fragment is obtained in cases with rightward deletion, while the 7.0-kb fragment occurs in cases with leftward deletion. The 2 cases reported in this paper are heterozygous leftward/rightward deletion cases. The Bam HI digestion results and haematological parameter values are reported. This is the first report of heterozygous leftward/rightward deletion in the Saudi population.
Glycosylated hemoglobin levels in a benign form of sickle cell anemia in Saudi Arabia.	Glycosylated hemoglobin was determined by the thiobarbituric acid method in sickle cell anemia patients from the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia. The level of glycosylated hemoglobin in a Saudi SS sample (4.36%, SD 0.83) is 90% of that of the sample of normals (4.85%, SD 0.51). This is in contrast with the reported value of glycosylated hemoglobin in an American Black SS sample (3.9%, SD 0.6), which is only 60% of that of the sample of normals (6.6%, SD 0.7). The fetal hemoglobin level in Saudi sickle cell patients was 12.03% (SD 4.84), which is significantly different from that of Americans of African origin at p = 0.001. There was no significant correlation (r = 0.236) between the percentages of glycosylated Hb and Hb F at the 10% confidence level. The reported positive relationship between the percentages of glycosylated Hb and Hb F in American Blacks seems to be valid in the Saudi population only up to the level of 10-12% of fetal hemoglobin. Above this threshold of Hb F no further alleviating effect is seen. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate value in Saudi Hb SS adults was 21.7 mumol/g (SD 7.4) and accordingly only twice as high as that of normal individuals. The benign clinical course exhibited by Saudi sickle cell patients is reflected by the survival of the RBC as indexed by its content of glycosylated Hb and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Moreover 10-12% of fetal hemoglobin in the RBC seems sufficient to ameliorate the severity of this disease in patients from the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia.
Glycosylated hemoglobin in Saudi sickle cell patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency.	Glycosylated hemoglobin (Hb) was measured in 42 Saudi sickle cell patients and in 38 sickle cell patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency. A statistically significant decrease in the percentages of glycosylated Hb was found in patients with sickle cell anemia when compared with those SS subjects with G-6-PD deficiency. Since glycosylated Hb is considered as an index of the red blood cell's life span, it is suggested that the enzyme defect in these patients is possibly ameliorating the severity of sickle cell anemia.
The host-parasite relationship between the Saudi Arabian Schistosoma mansoni and its intermediate and definitive hosts. 2. Effects of temperature, salinity and pH on the infection of mice by S. mansoni cercariae.	The infectivity of cercariae of the Saudi Arabian isolate of S. mansoni was found to be influenced by factors such as water temperature, salinity and pH. The optimum exposure temperature which resulted into the highest worm burdens and worm recovery rates in mice was 28 degrees C. However, the percentage infection rate was highest at a temperature range of 10 degrees to 34 degrees C. Mice were successfully infected with cercariae of S. mansoni at salinities of 0.5 to 6,400 mg/l. The highest worm burden and worm recovery rate occurred in mice infected by cercariae at a salinity of 100 mg/l, while the percentage infection rate was highest at a salinity range of 0.5 to 1,600 mg/l. Mice exposed to cercariae at the pH of 4.4 and 9.4 did not develop any infection. The percentage infection rate was highest in mice exposed to cercariae at a pH range of 6.4 to 8.4. However, both the worm burden and worm recovery rates were highest in mice at pH 5.4.
Inherited bleeding disorders in the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia.	Thirty-four cases of inherited bleeding disorders are reported. All are Saudi patients from the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia. There were 15 haemophiliacs, 1 factor VII deficiency, 1 factor X deficiency, 12 Glanzmann's thrombasthenia, and 5 unidentified platelet function disorders. Consanguinity was common among the families of these patients. Different age groups were affected and the severity of bleeding varied in the different conditions reported.
Steady-state kinetics of doxepin and imipramine in Saudi patients with interethnic comparison.	The pharmacokinetics of doxepin (DX) was studied in 21 Saudi patients treated long term with oral doses of this tricyclic antidepressant agent. The mean (SEM) values of the dose-normalized steady-state concentration and the apparent clearance after oral administration of this drug were 25.8 (4.8) ng.ml-1/mg.kg-1 and 2.529 (0.342) 1.h-1.kg-1, respectively. The pharmacokinetics of imipramine (IMI) was also studied in 30 Saudi patients who received oral doses of this drug for long durations. The mean dose-normalized steady-state concentration of IMI was 68.3 (19.7) ng.ml-1/mg.kg-1, and the mean apparent clearance after oral administration of IMI was 1.619 (0.353) 1.h-1. kg-1. The mean (SEM) ratio of the steady-state concentration of the metabolite desipramine (DES) to that of IMI (DES/IMI) was 0.873 (0.151). Using this value and the ratio of the mean apparent clearance after oral administration (TCL) of DES to that of IMI, the fraction of IMI metabolized to DES was calculated to be 0.489. The TCL of DES was estimated from data obtained for three additional patients who received oral doses of this drug for long durations. A mean value of 0.907 (0.351) 1.h-1.kg-1 was obtained.
A comparative study between two randomly selected samples from which to derive standards for craniofacial measurements.	The present study was performed to derive cephalometric standards for Saudi Arabian boys aged from 9-12 years. The sample was then compared with a British sample aged 9-12 years to detect statistical differences. The differences between both samples demonstrated a slightly prognathic Saudi face, more protrusive upper and lower incisors, and low Gonial and saddle angles.
The effect of plantation on increased allergic rhinitis in the eastern province of Saudi Arabia.	In a study done between 1982-1986, 129 patients with allergic rhinitis were followed-up in the Outpatient Department of King Fahd University Hospital, Al-Khobar (Saudi Arabia). Eighty patients were males (62%), 49 patients were females (38%); 71% Saudis, and 29% non-Saudis. Routine laboratory investigations, IgE and skin test were performed. The commonest allergens were pollens, house dust and cat danders. We found that males were significantly more affected than females, particularly in the cases of ages between 20-30 years. Beside the known causes, other factors such as the increase of plantation and local customs are discussed.
Tumoral calcinosis: case reports from Saudi Arabia with a review of the literature.	Tumoral calcinosis is a rare disease mainly reported among blacks, especially from the tropical and sub-tropical regions of Africa. Hitherto, no reports of this disease entity have been reported from North Africa and the Arab Peninsula. This paper is therefore the first documentation of tumoral calcinosis in nine patients from the Arabian Peninsula; seven of whom are Saudis and two Yemenis. Peculiar osseous and joint changes co-existed in one of the cases. Moreover, there was a high incidence in the feet, in 75% of cases. One of the lesions was quite extensive. Reason for these changes are suggested.
Serum immunoglobulin and complement levels in patients with sickle cell anaemia from eastern province of Saudi Arabia.	Serum immunoglobulin (IgG, IgA, IgM) and complement (C3, C4) levels were determined in 61 sickle cell anaemia patients of various age groups and both sexes in their steady state by nephelometry. Serum IgG was found to be consistently elevated in 46% cases of all age groups. Increase in the levels of IgA, IgM and in the complement values (C3, C4) was also observed. Although the mechanism responsible for these variations was unclear, however, this study gave an idea about the general pattern of serum immunoglobulin and complement levels in sickle cell anaemia patients from the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia.
Prevalence of toxoplasmosis in Saudi Arabian camels (Camelus dromedarius).	Serum samples from 227 Saudi Arabian camels were examined for Toxoplasma gondii antibodies by the indirect haemagglutination test, using a microtitre technique. Agglutinations (greater than 2+) occurring at 1:64 dilution were considered positive. A total of 36 (16%) camels were serologically positive for toxoplasmosis, giving titres ranging between 1:64 and 1:8192. The prevalence was much higher in female compared to male camels and in adults compared to young individuals.
Digestive system malignancies in the eastern province of Saudi Arabia: an analysis of 158 patients.	Retrospective evaluation of 158 patients with digestive system neoplasms was carried out. The disease pattern was compared to that noted in other parts of Arabia, other Middle East countries, Africa, and the West. An attempt was made to analyze potential aetiological factors in the Saudi population. At all cancer sites of the digestive system the male to female ratio was 3:1. Generally more younger patients with advanced cancer were encountered than reported in series from the Western hemisphere. The poor results of therapy were generally attributed to the advanced stage at presentation. The high frequency of GIT cancer and in particular the apparently rising incidence rate of colorectal cancer was attributed to dietary habits and the changing lifestyle of the population. Hepatitis B viral infection was the likely cause of primary hepatocellular cancer (PHC) although dietary factors could not be ruled out. Schistosomiasis was found not to play a role in the causation of either PHC or colorectal cancer.
Practice and methods of contraception among Saudi women in Riyadh.	The use of contraceptives can have an impact on better spacing between children, better child care, improvement of children's health and preservation of the mother's health. In this study 2675 Saudi women attending a gynaecology out-patient clinic were interviewed about their contraceptive practices. The majority of the women (56.0%) were using or had used some form of contraceptive. Oral contraceptives were the most common method; 94.8% of the 1497 women who practised contraception were using or had used this form of contraception. Sterilization accounted for 0.9% of contraceptive practices, while the intrauterine device was a more common form of contraceptive among the more educated women.
Identifying anxiety and depressive disorders among primary care patients: a pilot study.	One stage case-identification method, using the Arabic Version of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD) was applied in a pilot study for estimating the prevalence of depressive and anxiety disorders among a group of Saudi primary care attenders. The validity of the Arabic Version of the HAD scale was previously tested and found valid with high sensitivity and specificity. The total prevalence rate of depression was 17% and that of anxiety was 16%. Seven percent of the sample suffered both depression and anxiety i.e. the total percentage of patients with depression, anxiety or both was 26%. Higher morbidity of depression was recorded among females and a higher morbidity of anxiety among male patients.
Psychological aspects of intersex in Saudi patients.	Four cases of male pseudo-hermaphrodism were seen post pubertal. All had been reared as females unambiguously since birth. Two cases developed male gender identity post pubertal, but failed to declare themselves to their families and society until a similar case had been publicized in the local newspaper. The third case did not reveal her problem to her family even after being informed by a doctor at the age of 15, and was discovered accidentally at the age of 22 on routine medical examination. The fourth was discovered accidentally at age 40 after having been married and divorced. The families of the four cases shared a strong desire for their children to be reassigned to the male sex including the third case, irrespective of being assured of her female gender identity by physicians. Psychiatric and social problems encountered pre- and post-operatively are discussed with particular emphasis on the role of culture and traditions.
The incidence of taurodontism in dental patients.	The incidence of taurodontism was investigated in a dental school patient population. Radiographic examinations of 1,581 patients were evaluated; of this population, 179 patients (11.3%) exhibited taurodontism. Thirty-eight patients had taurodonts as well as another dental anomaly of some type.
Changing etiology and outcome of neonatal septicemia in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.	To study the etiology of neonatal septicemia and factors associated with outcome, all charts of neonates with bacteremia and clinical sepsis admitted to a neonatal unit in Saudi Arabia, from 1 November 1980 to 31 October 1984 were reviewed. The results were compared to a previous study period in the unit (1 November 1976-31 October 1980). Septicemia was diagnosed on 50 occasions in 49 neonates. The incidence of neonatal sepsis among patients born in the hospital was 2.5/1,000 live births. Mortality from sepsis was 33% and was associated with neutropenia in 63%. The most commonly isolated bacteria were E. coli, Klebsiella and Staphylococcus aureus. Salmonella enteritidis serotypes were isolated in 4% of the cases. Group B streptococci (GBS) were isolated, for the first time, from blood of 3 neonates. Salmonella species were less frequently and GBS more often isolated than previously. GBS have now appeared as etiologic organisms in neonatal sepsis also in Saudi Arabia. Salmonella septicemia remains more common in Saudi Arabia than in the West.
Steady-state concentrations of amitriptyline and its metabolite nortriptyline in Saudi patients.	The serum concentrations of amitriptyline (AMI) and its metabolite nortriptyline (NT) were determined in 54 Saudi patients treated for long durations with a daily oral dose (0.111 to 4.167 mg/kg) of AMI. Ten of these patients were concomitantly treated with neuroleptic drugs. The mean (SEM) of the dose-normalized steady-state serum concentration (Css) of AMI in patients who received AMI alone (Group I) was [46.1 (6.5) ng X ml-1/mg X kg-1], with mean NT/AMI Css ratio of 0.962 (0.122). A significantly higher mean of Css of AMI [82.3 (18.8 ng X ml-1/mg X kg-1] was acquired for patients who concomitantly received AMI and neuroleptic drugs (Group II). However, the difference in the mean NT/AMI Css ratio between Group I and Group II [0.929 (0.197)] was not significant. Also, the results of this study indicate that Css of AMI and the NT/AMI Css ratio in Saudi patients treated for depression with AMI alone are not significantly different from those reported for subjects from Western populations.
Prevalence of diabetes mellitus in rural Saudi Arabia.	Several studies have clearly shown the impact of modernization on the prevalence of diabetes mellitus in susceptible communities. Saudi Arabia has faced a rapid development program over the last two decades. In a recent study, we found a high prevalence of diabetes mellitus in urban Saudi Arabia. A total of 5222 rural subjects of both sexes were involved in a study of the prevalence of diabetes mellitus in the western region of Saudi Arabia. Random capillary blood glucose, body weight and height, and income were recorded. The results showed an overall prevalence of 4.3%. There was a rise of prevalence with age and higher-income groups. Prevalence also differed with sex. The overall prevalence in women (5.9%) was twice that for men (2.9%; P less than .001). Obesity occurred in 41.2% of our diabetic subjects compared to 29.3% in nondiabetic subjects (P less than .001). Multiple logistic regression analysis with body mass index (BMI) as the dependent variable showed that sex and income status were significant factors (P less than .0001 and P less than .04, respectively). When blood glucose was fixed as the dependent variable, the analysis showed that age, income, and BMI were significant factors (P less than .004, P less than .0001, and P less than .045, respectively).
Isolation of Streptococcus milleri from clinical specimens.	During a period of 26 months, 80 strains of Streptococcus milleri were isolated from 80 patients with clinical evidence of infection. More than a third of the isolates were from lesions related to the gastro-intestinal tract and a quarter from abscesses of various other sites. The haemolytic activity and group antigenic profile of these isolates are discussed. In addition, the clinical significance of S. milleri isolated from various sites is evaluated.
Differences in antimicrobial susceptibilities of clinical isolates in Saudi Arabia and the United States.	In vitro antimicrobial susceptibilities of 3,530 clinical isolates at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center (KFSH), in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, were compared with those of 11,041 bacterial isolates at two hospitals of comparable size in the United States. The gram-negative bacteria, especially Escherichia coli, Proteus-Morganella group, Enterobacter sp, Serratia marcescens, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa were generally more resistant to ampicillin, carbenicillin, cephalosporin, gentamicin, piperacillin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole at KFSH than in the United States. A larger number of isolates of Klebsiella pneumoniae were more resistant to cephalosporin, chloramphenical, gentamicin, piperacillin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole at one of the tertiary care hospitals in the United States. Hemophilus influenzae and gram-positive cocci exhibited similar susceptibilities toward commonly used antibiotics at all three institutions.
Tests for streptolysin-O antibodies in health and suspected streptococcal infections in Saudi Arabia.	'Upper limits of normal' antistreptolysin-O (ASO) titres were determined in various age groups in Saudi Arabia using the conventional haemolysin and the newer, passive agglutination (Blue-ASO) tests. The upper limit of normal values were found to vary with age, being the highest (166 Todd units or 1:320) among the school age children. Serum samples from 744 patients with various clinical manifestations associated with streptococcal infections such as rheumatic fever, glomerulonephritis, tonsillitis, rheumatoid arthritis and polyarthritis were tested by both methods, with the geometric mean titres (GMT) being determined in each age group. In case of school age children with suspected rheumatic fever, and found positive by the tests, a GMT of 458 Todd units (1:1080) was obtained--much higher than the ASO levels detected in positives with glomerulonephritis or tonsillitis. Apart from its relative simplicity, rapidity and ease of performance, the Blue-ASO test was able to detect positivity in 15% of sera from patients of various age groups with suspected rheumatic fever, polyarthritis and tonsillitis who exhibited insignificant levels of ASO by the haemolysin test.
Neurologic manifestations of heatstroke at the Mecca pilgrimage.	We analyzed the extent, pattern, and evolution of neurologic dysfunction in 87 patients with heatstroke at the Mecca pilgrimage. Disturbance of consciousness and constricted pupils were seen in all patients. Deep coma, areflexia, and absent brainstem reflexes were seen in 25 patients (29%). Automatic complex movements (chewing, swallowing, and lip smacking) were seen in 17 patients (30%). Body shivering during cooling occurred in six patients (7%). Recovery was uncomplicated in 75 patients (87%). Two (2%) recovered but developed pancerebellar syndrome. Ten patients (11%) died.
Cousin marriages and schizophrenia in Saudi Arabia.	The rate and degree of consanguinity in the parents of 143 schizophrenics who satisfied the DSM-III diagnostic criteria, was compared in the same number of controls matched for age, sex and socioeconomic class. A family history of disorders suggestive of schizophrenia in the offspring of consanguineous parents who were schizophrenic, was compared with the incidence of a similar history in the schizophrenic offspring of non-consanguineous parents. There was no statistically significant difference in the former, but there was in the latter. This finding supports the theory of a familial tendency towards schizophrenia and the possibility of recessive or a multigene pattern of inheritance.
Admissions to a new burn unit in Gizan, Saudi Arabia.	In an attempt to introduce western treatment principles, Danish chiefs have been in charge of a new Burn Unit in Gizan for the first 2 years and 9 months. We have treated 348 burned patients with a median 16 per cent estimated area of burn (EAB). One-quarter of the patients had more than 25 per cent EAB. Flame burns were the most frequent and females suffered the more severe injury. The mechanisms of burning are discussed.
Burn treatment in a new burn unit in Gizan, Saudi Arabia.	During the 2 years and 9 months when a new burn unit was under Danish leadership, 348 admitted patients were treated. Exposure treatment and Ringer's lactate were used for burn shock. Due to lack of blood, infections and discharge against medical advice, only 106 patients had operations. Fifty-six patients died from their burns and concomitant diseases, 44 of these were women, often with very extensive burns. Our results are comparable to those reported from departments in similar geographic areas. The special problems in treatment are discussed.
The host-parasite relationship between the Saudi Arabian Schistosoma mansoni and its intermediate and definitive hosts. 1. S. mansoni and its local snail host Biomphalaria arabica.	The infectivity of miracidia of the Saudi Arabian isolate of S. mansoni in Bi. arabica was found to be influenced by such factors as miracidial dose, water temperature and salinity. The pre-patent period of S. mansoni in Bi. arabica was 30 to 33 days. Miracidial dose had no effect on the mortality of snails during the pre-patent period. The infection rate increased as the miracidial dose was increased. However, cercarial production was highest in snails exposed to 1 miracidium each and decreased as the miracidial dose was increased. Water temperature during exposure had an influence on the mortality, infection rate and cercarial production in Bi. arabica exposed to S. mansoni miracidia. The infection rate was highest in snails exposed at 28 degrees and 34 degrees C. No infection of Bi. arabica occurred at the temperature of 10 degrees C. The number of cercariae per snail per day was highest in snails exposed to miracidia at 34 degrees C. It was demonstrated that salinity had an influence on the infection of Bi. arabica with miracidia of S. mansoni. The infection rate in snails decreased as the salinity increased up to 4,500 mg/l, above which no infection occurred. The daily pattern of cercarial emergence was rhythmic, whereby 94.7% of the total daily production was released within 6 h from infected Bi. arabica, with a peak between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.
Soccer injuries in Saudi Arabia.	Soccer injuries which were seen at the King Fahd University Hospital over a period of 12 months were analyzed. The majority of the patients were under 20 years of age. Two-thirds of the injuries involved soft tissue, while those to the bone and joint comprised one-third. The lower extremity was involved in 59%. Sixteen percent of the injuries were considered severe enough to require inpatient treatment. We feel the high incidence of injuries can be reduced by better guidance and coaching at school and other training levels. At present, these patients are seen in the emergency room of our hospital and subsequently in the orthopaedic and fracture clinics. A specialized sports injury clinic staffed with medical and paramedical personnel with special interest in sports medicine would enable early and effective treatment returning athletes to play without undue delay.
Trend in breech delivery in Saudi Arabia.	An analysis of 2,168 consecutive singleton breech deliveries showed significant improvement in neonatal mortality and morbidity rates for babies delivered by Caesarean section (CS) compared with vaginal delivery (p less than 0.001). The CS rate was 19%. The uncorrected perinatal mortality (PNM) rate was 90.4/1,000 which was 2.5 times higher than the overall hospital PNM rate. In the vaginal delivery group the neonatal death (NND) rate of 206/1,000 among low birth-weight infants (less than 2,500 g) was significantly higher than that of 18/1,000 among babies of greater than 2,500 g (p greater than 0.001). There was no significant difference in the NND rate between these 2 birth-weight groups delivered by CS (p greater than 0.3). Social conservatism, large family size and limited neonatal care facilities were deterrents to an increase in the Caesarean section rate.
Condition of vehicles in Saudi Arabia.	Saudi Arabia has experienced an enormous growth in its motorization rate since 1970, and there has been a resultant increase of nearly 600 percent in traffic fatalities. The fatality rate (per 100,000 vehicles) has been found to be at least three times higher than that of most developed countries. One of the factors which may be contributing to the serious accident problem in Saudi Arabia is the poor condition of some of the vehicles. The main goal of this study was to investigate the socioeconomic determinants of vehicle condition, using data gathered in Saudi Arabia. Detailed information on the condition of vehicles and the characteristics of drivers were collected by roadside surveys in the Eastern Province. The results from 508 surveys indicated that: 1. The condition of vehicles was three to four times as bad as in some other states. 2. There was a strong relationship between driver characteristics and vehicle condition. Drivers who were poor, uneducated, and drove without a license were more likely to have unsafe vehicles than their counterparts who were rich, educated and had driver's licences. 3. On the average trucks and vehicles used for public transportation and the movement of goods, and vehicles owned by companies and the government, were in worse condition than other vehicles. 4. There were significant differences among certain makes of vehicles.
Sporotrichoid leishmaniasis in patients from Saudi Arabia: clinical and histologic features.	The clinical and pathologic presentations of cutaneous leishmaniasis in the various countries of the Middle East are well documented. The defined patterns currently encountered in the region emphasize the rarity of local extension of the infection from the bite site. Between 1970 and 1980 we have seen 24 patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis who acquired the infection in Saudi Arabia. In these patients there were several interesting variations from the hitherto described patterns of Oriental sore. The variations include, clinically, the appearance of satellite lesions and the presence of sporotrichoid spread of infection; and histologically, the presence of stellate intradermal abscesses. Such variations in the clinical and pathologic presentations may be due to differences either in the host's immunologic reactivity or in the Leishmania organisms found in Saudi Arabia. Speculative evidence supports the possibility of a different strain and/or species of Leishmania tropica in Saudi Arabia, which in turn may be responsible for this unique clinicopathologic presentation.
Dilated cardiomyopathy in Saudi Arabia: a review of 55 cases.	A review of 55 cases with dilated cardiomyopathy seen at King Abdul Aziz University Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia between 1404-1405 (1984-1985) was carried out. These 55 cases were analyzed and compared with cases of clinically identifiable ischaemic heart disease. The diagnosis was established on clinical grounds as well as electrocardiographic and echocardiographic studies. The findings suggest that dilated cardiomyopathy is a frequent cause of heart disease in this area.
Distribution of red cell G6PD and 6PGD phenotypes in Saudi Arabia.	A total of 1112 randomly selected Saudi Arabs, of both sexes living in Jeddah and the surrounding areas, were studied for the distribution of red cell G6PD and 6PGD phenotypes by the methaemoglobin reduction test and starch-gel electrophoresis. The overall G6PD deficiency was 8.4% in males and 7.0% in females. No deficiency of 6PGD was detected. The gene frequencies at the G6PD locus were as follows: in males [GdB+ - 0.86; GdA+ - 0.05; GdB- - 0.06, GdA- - 0.02] and those in females [GdB+ - 0.85; GdA+ - 0.07; GdB- - 0.06; GdA- - 0.01] respectively. The hyperactive allele, GdBKRT originally detected in the Sudan was also present in a low frequency in Saudi Arabs. The frequency of PGDA and PGDC alleles were found to be 0.94 and 0.06 respectively. There was a significant deviation from the Hardey-Weinberg Equilibrium in the distribution of PGDC alleles with an excess of homozygotes (chi 2(1): 54.0) and lack of heterozygotes (chi 2(1): 7.31) probably due to the practice of inbreeding for many generations.
Foot abscess due to Salmonella typhi: a case report.	A case of foot abscess due to Salmonella typhi is reported in a 37-year-old Yemeni man. The abscess was surgically drained and the wound healed without antibiotic therapy.
Heat stroke at the Mekkah pilgrimage: clinical characteristics and course of 30 patients.	The clinical picture and the final outcome of 30 patients with heat stroke during the Mekkah pilgrimage 1404 (September 1984) were analysed. Rapid cooling by the 'evaporative method' was achieved in a mean time of 59 min (range 15-135). An initial temperature above 42 degrees C and a cooling time of more than 1 h indicated a poor prognosis. Acute hepatic failure, 'adult respiratory distress syndrome' and decerebrate convulsions were among the fatal complications occurring in three patients. In the final outcome three patients (10 per cent) died, two patients (7 per cent) recovered but developed myocardial infarction and cerebellar ataxia respectively. Twenty-five patients (83 per cent) made an uncomplicated recovery.
Viral hepatitis complicating pregnancy: mortality trends in Saudi Arabia.	The striking mortality in viral hepatitis associated with pregnancy, regularly observed in developing countries, has shown a significant decrease in Saudi Arabia during a period of unprecedented economic growth. However, the risk of fatal hepatitis in the pregnant Saudi woman remains approximately four times that for the nonpregnant woman. The explanation for the observed mortality trend is not apparent, but is unlikely to be the result of improved nutritional status of the population alone, or because of treatment of severe hepatitis with adrenal corticosteroids. Disseminated intravascular coagulation may be one factor that decisively influences the outcome of hepatitis in the pregnant woman.
Sickle beta 0 thalassemia in Eastern Saudi Arabia.	The sickle cell (beta s) gene occurs at a high frequency in the oasis populations of Eastern Saudi Arabia. However, as compared with the disorder in Africans, sickle cell anemia runs an unusually benign clinical course in this populations; this has been attributed in part to the relatively high levels of fetal hemoglobin (Hb F) which characterize Saudi Arabians with this condition [1, 2]. As yet, there is no satisfactory explanation for this remarkable phenomenon. To learn more about the expression of the beta s gene in Eastern Saudi Arabia, we examined its interaction with beta 0 thalassemia. We found that remarkably high levels of Hb F in this population are not restricted to individuals with sickle cell anemia but also occur in compound heterozygotes for the beta s and beta 0 thalassemia (beta 0 thal) genes. Additionally, this study has characterized sickle cell-beta 0 thalassemia (S-beta 0 thal) in Eastern Saudi Arabia for the first time.
F-cell production in sickle cell anemia: regulation by genes linked to beta-hemoglobin locus.	Strong correlation of F-reticulocyte levels within sib pairs with sickle cell (SS) anemia suggests that the wide-ranging levels found in the SS population are governed by genes linked to the beta S-site. Correlations between F-cell levels in parents and F-reticulocyte levels in their children indicates that these same genes regulate F-cell production in nonanemic persons. Comparison of outcrossed and inbred SS populations suggests that relative well-being arises from homozygosity for alleles dictating high F-reticulocyte response to anemia.
Insects and other pests affecting man and animals in Saudi Arabia.	Survey of the insects and other pests attacking farmers and domestic animals was carried out during three successive years (1968, 1969 and 1970) in the Central province of Saudi Arabia. In this paper, the insects and other pests found were given. Also, location and time of appearance for each pest were mentioned. The pests recorded were 6 species of insects belonging to 5 families and 4 orders attacking farmers; 9 species of insects belonging to 8 families and 4 orders, and 9 species of mites and ticks belonging to 5 families attacking domestic animals.
Environmental effects on urinary volumes, biochemical constituents and their inter-relation.	This study has found low 24-h urine volumes in British expatriates in Saudi Arabia and suggests the possibility of urate stone formation in spite of the air-conditioned environment in which they were living. Urine volume was shown to be significantly correlated with calcium excretion in both sexes and to urate and sodium in males. Differences in 24-h urine concentrations of some but not all constituents between British-born subjects living in Britain and Saudi Arabia have been demonstrated.
Brucellosis in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. A microbiological and clinical study.	During a period of two years, 30 cases of brucellosis were positively diagnosed from a total of 209 patients who reported with prolonged fever for investigation. Diagnosis was made both by blood culture and serological tests. The latter included slide and tube agglutination in all cases and an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in 16. 11 cases (36.7%) gave negative results by the slide-agglutination screening test used at the recommended single serum dilution of 1:80. This was due to the prozone phenomenon as they gave positive results upon further dilution in the tube agglutination test. 13 of the 16 tested by ELISA were positive for both IgM and IgG and three were positive for IgG only. Of the six cases that were positive by culture, five grew Brucella melitensis and one B. abortus.
Dental caries prevalence in intermediate Saudi schoolchildren in Riyad.	The study was performed in 1378 intermediate Saudi schoolchildren in Riyad, 693 females and 685 males. The results indicate low caries prevalence among Saudi children. This may be due to the type of food eaten, and other factors could be important, e.g. the use of miswak by Saudi children as the traditional practice for brushing teeth. The difference between the DMFT of the total number of Saudi females and males by sex and age were not statistically significant, P greater than 0.7498 and P greater than 0.1808, respectively. The chi-square analysis for treatment needs between females and males indicate that the differences were not statistically significant (chi 2 = 0.254, 1 df, P = 0.6145). The most prominent finding was a high percent (77.65%) of treatment needs for Saudi children. This confirmed the continuous need for planning and delivering dental services.
Periodontal disease prevalence and dental needs among schoolchildren in Saudi Arabia.	The study population consisted of 1174 intermediate Saudi schoolchildren; 601 girls and 573 boys, aged 13, 14 and 15 years. periodontal disease was assessed by the method recommended by WHO and data were computerized by using IBM 3033, SAS package. Boys had significantly higher debris, calculus deposits and intense gingivitis counts than girls by sex and age. But for advanced periodontal involvement, the result shows no significant differences by sex and age. There was a position correlation between debris, calculus and periodontal diseases. There was a highly significant difference between girls and boys. The results of this study suggest the need for an oral health program for the entire community.
A study of carboxyhaemoglobin levels of cigarette and sheesha smokers in Saudi Arabia.	A single carboxyhaemoglobin (COHb) estimation of late evening blood sample among non-smokers, cigarette smokers, and sheesha smokers was evaluated among Saudis. The COHb level in smokers of 15 to 40 cigarettes a day ranged between 0.7 and 10.3 with a mean value of 6.1 +/- 2.58 COHb. Values among sheesha smokers ranged between 6.5 and 13.9 with a mean value of 8.8 +/- 1.83, significantly higher than those of cigarette smokers (P less than 0.001) for a given degree of exposure to tobacco smoke.
The pathology of nasopharyngeal myiasis in Saudi Arabian camels (Camelus dromedarius).	Thirty-two out of thirty-five camels examined at Jeddah and Riyadh slaughter houses were infected with the camel nasal bot Cephalopina titillator. The larvae occurred mainly in the nasopharynx and, occasionally, degenerated larvae were found embedded between the turbinated bones. In the pharynx, the pathological changes included the formation of lymphoid nodules, with central abscesses, at the sites of larval attachment, and a combination of inflammatory, degenerative and reparative processes in other parts of the pharyngeal wall. The nasal cavity was congested and filled with mucus in which some larvae were entangled.
Management of impotence in a developing country.	Three hundred and seventy five impotent men attended our Andrology clinic between July 1988 and June 1993. Their ages ranged from 20-89 years. Associated factors were diabetes mellitus, testicular failure, trauma, venous leak and hyperprolactinaemia. We categorised them into subgroups of highly educated men with manual dexterity and financial ability but impairment of manual dexterity, financially able but illiterate men, and illiterate poor with or without manual dexterity. Penile prostheses were implanted in 15; 48 were treated with vasoactive substances; 4 with vacuum devices and two had ligation of venous leaks. However, 297 (79%) men did not get the treatment best suited for their problems and received only supplementary hormones and/or psychological reassurance. In the developing countries, the selection of the appropriate treatment modality for impotence is compounded by considerations of economic, social and educational factors.
Histology of gastric antrum in intestinal-type gastric adenocarcinoma from Asir Central Hospital, Saudi Arabia.	The objective of this study was to look at non-neoplastic, precancerous histologic changes in the antrum of 49 resected stomachs with intestinal-type adenocarcinoma. Chronic superficial gastritis was seen in all 49 cases. Focal atrophic gastritis was seen in 32/49 cases (65.3%). Helicobacter pylori bacilli were seen in 41/49 cases (84%) and intestinal metaplasia in 39/49 cases (79.6%). 42/49 cases (85.7%) with chronic superficial gastritis showed non-active quiescent chronic inflammation. None of the 49 cases showed early gastric cancer, i.e. adenocarcinoma restricted to the gastric mucosa. The progressive changes of longstanding chronic superficial gastritis, focal atrophic gastritis and intestinal metaplasia were seen in all cases studied (individually or in combination). Knowledge of these precancerous lesions and their prevalence is fundamental to controlling gastric cancer (early detection) and eventual prevention.
Pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis in a Saudi child and two cousins.	Pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis is a rare disease and only 32 cases have been reported in children under 12 years of age. The first report on Saudi children with this disorder and on affected cousins is presented, supporting the possible hypothesis of it being an autosomal recessive disorder. The importance of differentiating it from other conditions, particularly pulmonary tuberculosis, and the current approach to diagnosis and management are discussed.
Clinical and epidemiological pattern of long-stay in-patients: an opportunity for the provision of out-reach community services in Saudi Arabia.	The aim of the present study was to find out the clinical and epidemiological pattern of long-stay in-patients.
Ethnic variations in the haemostatic system: comparison between Arabs, Westerners (Europeans and Americans), Asians and Africans.	A wide variety of haemostatic variables were measured in healthy male subjects predominantly blood donors residing in Riyadh, the capital city of Saudi Arabia. Subjects were divided according to ethnic origin: Saudi Arabs n = 487, Westerners (Europeans and Americans) n = 300, South East Asians (Koreans and Filipinos) n = 360, and West Africans n = 82. There were no significant differences in prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, thrombin time, reptilase time, plasma fibrinogen, antithrombin, plasminogen and platelet count between Saudis, Westerners and Asians. Africans exhibited significantly lower plasma levels of fibrinogen, platelet count and plasminogen than other ethnic groups. Arabs and Africans had higher levels of FVIII:C and vWF:ristocetin cofactor than Westerners. On the other hand, FX was significantly higher in Westerners than in other ethnic groups. Smokers had higher fibrinogen levels than non-smokers. These variations, which could not be related to blood group distribution, physical parameters of height and weight, may be due to genetic and/or dietary habits. In conclusion, this study established the existence of racially determined variations in haemostatic variables, with Black Africans showing changes consistent with a lesser tendency towards atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease than other ethnic groups. These variations should be taken into account when investigating the haemostatic system in patients.
Overheating in neonates in Saudi Arabia.	During the summers of 1992 and 1993, twenty babies from the Southwestern region of Saudi Arabia were admitted to the paediatric ward in view of fever due to overheating. They represented 77% of the total babies admitted with pyrexia due to both environmental overheating and infection. Their symptomatology was different from the infected group. Although all babies in this series had uneventful recovery, overheating remains a potentially serious condition that might lead to dangerous complications. The aim of this paper is to draw the attention of physicians working in similar environments to its occurrence. It is essential and crucial to exclude infection before the cause is wholly attributed to overheating alone.
Formulas expressing relationship among age, height and weight, and percentile in Saudi and US children aged 6-16 years.	A microcomputer program in BASIC for predicting percentile of height and weight by age for Saudi and US children aged 6-16 years is designed. The formulas used in this program are derived from the data reported by Magbool et al. (Ann Saudi Med 13 (1993) 344-349) and the data of the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS). Magbool et al. reported measurements of height and weight of 21,638 Saudi boys and girls aged 6-16 years from the Eastern Province. A mathematical model and a computer program previously published by the author are employed in this study. Analysis of the computer-assisted, predicted values and the data reported by Magbool et al. (Saudi) and the NCHS (USA) indicates that the program is accurate and reliable with a close agreement in expressing percentile as a function of age and height or weight. The computer-assisted predictive formulas can determine the relationship among the age, the height and weight, and the percentile, and as a supplement to the clinically useful reference standards of the tables and figures of Magbool et al. and the NCHS may be of value for growth evaluation of Saudi and US children.
Emergency presentations of patients with methylmalonic acidemia, propionic acidemia and branched chain amino acidemia (MSUD).	The charts of 16 patients with branched chain amino acidemia (MSUD) who had 48 emergency room (ER) visits, of 10 patients with propionic acidemia (PA) who had 57 ER visit, and of 13 patients with methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) who had 154 ER visits, were reviewed retrospectively for the most common clinical presentations, physical and laboratory findings. The most common clinical presentation was acute or chronic vomiting and the most common physical finding was dehydration. When hypoglycemia was found, the mental status of 55% of patients with MSUD and MMA and 20% of patients with PA, was alert. Mixed acid/base disturbance, i.e. alkalosis caused by vomiting mixed with metabolic acidosis caused by the disease, was present in 30% of MSUD, in 33% of PA, and 45% of MMA. There was no relationship between acidosis detected by the blood pH and mental status of the patients. A good correlation between base excess < -5 and serum bicarbonate < 21 mmol/l was found. Blood cultures were positive for bacteria and fungi in 15% of the visits with MSUD, in 23% with PA, and 3% with MMA. Patients with positive blood cultures did not necessarily have a temperature > 39 degrees C nor hypothermia. The results suggest that the mental status of the patients should not detract the ER physician from obtaining blood pH, gases and glucose and in all instances a blood culture should be secured, even if the patient has no fever.
A method for adjusting the international growth curves for local use in the assessment of nutritional status of Saudi pre-school children.	The aim of this study is to illustrate a method for adjusting the internationally used National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) growth curves for local use in the assessment of nutritional status of Saudi children. All children 1-60 months in three semiurban-rural communities in Asir region, Saudi Arabia (N = 1168) were subjected to weight and height (or length) measurements. These measurements were individually compared with those of the NCHS reference population. The distribution of the study population was found to be significantly shifted to the left of the normal distribution for reference population on the percentile growth curves (P < 0.001). This denoted the inappropriateness of the NCHS reference standards for local use. Accordingly, the lower limits for the expected normal on the growth curves has been shifted from the 3rd percentile line to -3 standard deviation line, to be suitable for the Saudi children. This led to 70% & 56% reductions in the estimation of undernutrition, based on wt/age and ht/age indicators respectively. It is recommended that this adjustment be supported by other studies locally and in other developing countries.
Correlation between Barr bodies and neutrophil drumsticks.	There is a marked difference between the frequencies of neutrophil nuclear drumsticks and mucosal cell Barr bodies in any given woman despite the fact that both represent an inactivated X chromosome. We present results of a prospective study carried out on 100 normal Saudi females to assess the statistical correlation between these two variables. We conclude that each is independent of the other. The lack of statistical correlation perhaps relates to maturational and nuclear configuration factors.
A severe nervous disease in fancy pigeons caused by paramyxovirus-1 in Saudi Arabia.	A severe nervous disease struck fancy pigeons for the first time in Saudi Arabia during February-March, 1992. The morbidity rate was 60% while the case fatality rate was 40%. An avian paramyxovirus-1 was isolated from affected pigeons. The disease was reproduced experimentally in pigeons and the virus was reisolated and identified.
Arteritis: experience in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.	Inflammation of the arteries is a difficult condition to diagnose and treat. Eighteen consecutive patients (16 men, two women) with arteritis treated in the vascular surgery department of King Fahad Hospital, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, over a period of 3 years were reviewed to define the local pattern of the disease. The mean age of the group was 29.2 (range 18-50) years. Buerger's disease was diagnosed in 11 patients and considered to be the most common type of arteritis. Other types of arteritis identified were: non-specific (four patients), infective (one), irradiation (one) and vasculitis secondary to scleroderma (one). The most common finding was severe lower-limb ischaemia from infrapopliteal occlusion. Arteriography carried out in 16 patients showed either occlusion or stenosis of the affected artery. In one patient an associated renal aneurysm was detected. All patients were advised to stop smoking and unilateral or bilateral lumbar sympathectomy undertaken in those with Buerger's disease. By adopting this policy limb salvage was achieved in nine of the 11 patients with Buerger's disease. In addition to these measures, corticosteroids were prescribed for selected cases of arteritis.
Developing an acute pain service in a multicultural setting.	Development of an Acute Pain Service in a multicultural environment can be a difficult and challenging endeavor. In addition to concerns about communicating with patients who speak a foreign language, the problem of integrating staff from many different backgrounds must be faced. Education for both patients and staff must be innovative, multifaceted, and individualized. At King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, the past 2 years have been a time of challenge and growth as an interdisciplinary team developed a pain service that meets the hospital's unique needs while fulfilling the goal of improved pain management for the patients.
Emergency medicine in the Persian Gulf War--Part 1: Preparations for triage and combat casualty care.	We report the planning and preparations for triage and emergency care at a unique Level I desert trauma facility before the Persian Gulf War. The facility was designed to accomplish sorting, resuscitation, and emergency life- and limb-saving surgical functions of massive numbers of casualties within the war zone. Plans included triage preparations for neuropsychiatric patients and the biologically and chemically contaminated. Emergency physicians were essential to the triage planning and process.
Emergency medicine in the Persian Gulf War--Part 2. Triage methodology and lessons learned.	To describe the conventional triage consequences of war zone casualties compared against expected NATO triage casualty estimates; the influence of the Revised Trauma Score on triage sensitivity; and evaluation of physiological parameters considered potentially useful to improved triage specificity and sensitivity.
Emergency medicine in the Persian Gulf War--Part 3: Battlefield casualties.	To report the type and frequency of battlefield casualties and the procedures performed to treat them.
Residency training in graduate medical education (nine-year view).	Assessment of the progress of residency training in graduate education after 9 years shows that the original goals established for various specialties are being effectively met. There are now 7 approved residency programmes for diplomas and 10 approved residency programmes for fellowships with 324 residents trained and in training, out of whom (32%) were females, and 222 (68%) were male residents. Student interest in these programmes has remained at a high level. Only 15 candidates (4.64%) had withdrawn from the residency training programmes. Heavy emphasis has been placed upon curriculum design, selection criteria of students and quality control mechanisms through residency committees in specialty departments and the residency board embracing residency coordinators. This paper outlines some concerns regarding the present status of various residencies and suggests some recommendations for future development of these programmes.
Sickness absenteeism among employees of a teaching hospital in Saudi Arabia.	The sickness absence records of workers at the King Khalid University Hospital over a period of two years (1990-1991) were analysed to identify the category of workers at high risks. The records of each staff who went on 'sick-off' are available at the Employee Health Clinic of the hospital. There were 861 workers with sickness absence records during the period of study and 86% are expatriates on contract. The prevalence of sickness absence is higher among contract workers than non-contract workers about 16% and 9% respectively. The sex ratio was 1:2 in favour of females among contract employees but 1.2:1 in the male's favour for the Saudis. The observed sex differential in the rate of sickness absence in each occupational group is statistically significant (P < 0.01). Females have more spells of sickness than males and the duration of sickness absence is significantly higher in females. However, the average spell of sickness which is generally low is not different between contract and non-contract workers although slightly higher in the former. There was no significant occupational effect on the spells and duration of sickness absence. Respiratory infections and diseases of the digestive and musculoskeletal systems are the major diseases causing sickness absence. The implications of these findings are discussed in the paper. But for a good monitoring of sickness absence records, a health record surveillance card for each employee is recommended.
The effect of henna paste on oxygen saturation reading obtained by pulse oximetry.	A controlled study was designed to examine the effect of red and black henna on the measurement of oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry. Fifty adult normal female volunteers had their left thumb coloured with red henna (40) or black henna (10). The uncoloured right thumb was used as a control. All measurements were done under room temperature, and the same pulse oximeter was used in all volunteers. In the red henna group there was no difference on oximetry reading between right and left thumb. In contrast, the thumb coloured with black henna gave no reading when compared to the uncoloured right thumb. On the basis of this study, pulse oximetry is not limited by red henna while black henna has a potential of causing major error in the measurement of oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry. In these cases we recommend to use ear oximetry for accurate measurement of oxygen saturation.
Predation of Acacia seeds by bruchid beetles and its relation to altitudinal gradient in south-western Saudi Arabia.	The distribution of the Acacia trees and their bruchid seed beetles in south-western Saudi Arabia revealed that each of the host-insect pair occupied a specific range along the altitudinal gradient from sea level to 2500 m. At low to intermediate altitudes, between sea level and 1750 m, at hot to worm environments, the following host-insect pairs were recorded: Acacia asak--Bruchidius. sp., A. ehrenbergiana--B.saudicus, A.hamulosa--B.sp., A.oerfota--B.sp., A.seyal--B. sp., A.tortilis--B. aurivilli and A.tortilis--B. sahelicus. At high altitudes between 1750 and 2500m, at cool environment the following host insect pairs were recorded: A.negrii--B.arabicus and A.gerrardii--B.arabicus. The rate of seed predation varied among Acacia spp., but the highest were recorded in A. tortilis and A. ehrenbergiana.
Growth hormone and IGF1 profile in short children with osteopetrosis.	Osteopetrosis is commonly associated with short stature. To identify the cause, 8 children with osteopetrosis and short stature were studied. One showed evidence of renal tubular acidosis, none showed evidence of anaemia, and all were clinically and biochemically euthyroid. Growth hormone profile was assessed using night sampling (8 patients), growth hormone provocative testing using insulin-induced hypoglycaemia (6 patients), and L-dopa-propranolol (8 patients). The mean nocturnal growth hormone values taken at 60 and 90 min after onset of sleep and at 4 a.m. were 5.5, 12.8, and 11.5 mu/L respectively. The peak stimulated growth hormone mean values with the insulin-induced hypoglycaemia (glucose 1.6-3.0 mmol/L, mean = 2.2) was 14 mu/L (range 7.3-24.5 mu/L) and with the L-dopa-propranolol was 25.6 mu/L (range 12.3-49 mu/L). IGF1 levels taken at 0 and 120 min of insulin-induced hypoglycaemia (0 min for L-dopa-propranolol), and at 120 min of L-dopa-propranolol, showed normal values for age. We conclude that: (1) growth hormone profiles in these children are normal; (2) tissue unresponsiveness to growth hormone and/or IGF1 is not likely to be the cause of short stature in children with osteopetrosis; and (3) osteopetrosis per se is not an indication for assessment of growth hormone status.
An unusual case of suicidal asphyxia.	A case is presented of a psychiatric in-patient who committed suicide on the first day of admission to hospital by entrapping his neck in the hydraulic device used for raising and lowering a hospital bed. Death most likely was due to mechanical asphyxia, from persistent compression of the neck. The danger of such potential self-harming devices in psychiatric wards is emphasized.
Aetiology of gastroenteritis at a major referral centre in Saudi Arabia.	To determine the causes of gastroenteritis at a major referral centre in Saudi Arabia, retrospective study was carried out on 58,110 fresh stools from 42,035 patients. Examination of stool specimens for pathogens was based on the clinical judgement of the physician responsible, so that all specimens were not tested for the presence of all pathogen groups. Bacterial enteropathogens were found in 7.7% of patients; Salmonella species (51.7%) were found to be the most frequent pathogens followed by Campylobacter jejuni (28%) and Shigella species (14.9%). Protozoan or metazoan parasites were detected in 27.8% of patients examined, the most common being Giardia lamblia and Hymenolepsis nana. Of the patients tested for viruses in stool, 14.1% had rotavirus, 5.3% adenovirus, 1.2% small round viruses and 0.3% coronavirus. Clostridium difficile toxin was also found in 9.5% of patients examined.
Glanzmann's thrombasthenia with mild von Willebrand's disease.	A Saudi Arabian family is reported in which Glanzmann's thrombasthenia and von Willebrand's disease occurred simultaneously. The daughter presented with menorrhagia and gave a history of gastrointestinal bleeding and a strong family history of bleeding disorder. Full haematological investigations were performed on the propositus, parents, and siblings, including complete blood count, bleeding time, prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, factor VIII:C, von Willebrand factor, ristocetin cofactor, platelet aggregometry, platelet glycoprotein Ib and IIb/IIIa and platelet antigen PLT-1 (Coulter Clone). The propositus had Glanzmann's thrombasthenia, both parents had mild von Willebrand's disease and were carriers of Glanzmann's thrombasthenia. Three symptomatic brothers had both Glanzmann's thrombasthenia and von Willebrand's disease; two asymptomatic brothers had von Willebrand's disease only and one had completely normal results. Those family members with both diseases were more severely affected than those with just one disease. In areas where consanguineous marriage is common, such as Saudi Arabia, multiple haemostatic abnormalities may occur, and investigation should not stop with the discovery of a single abnormality. The increased clinical severity of bleeding, including haemarthroses, in those patients having both congenital defects emphasises the importance of von Willebrand factor in glycoprotein Ib-mediated platelet adhesion.
The education and contribution of women health care professionals in Saudi Arabia: the case of nursing.	"Women constitute the key resource for attaining the goal of health for all by the year 2000," maintains a report by The World Health Organization. Achieving this goal requires massive efforts including (1) the training of women health care professionals; and (2) the nonformal health education of women, the primary health care providers to their families and communities. This paper focuses on the first area, specifically on the education of women nurses in a Third World country, Saudi Arabia, where traditional attitudes persist against intermingling of the genders and the treatment of women by men. It examines the progress and problems encountered in recruiting Saudi women for nursing education and practice; describes the evolution of nursing education programs; and analyzes the obstacles to women's participation in these programs and in the nursing profession. The paper concludes with recommendations to address the problem, increase women's participation, and contribute to that country's health development. The paper is based upon primary and secondary data, including official statistics; personal interviews with Saudi women health professionals and students; the memoirs of a leading Saudi woman nurse and educator, the author's personal observations and experiences with the health care system during four years of residence in Saudi Arabia, and available literature on the subject.
The limitations of ultrasonography in the management of testicular abscesses.	Preoperative ultrasound images of 12 cases of testicular abscess were correlated with the clinical, operative and pathological diagnosis. No ultrasonic appearance was consistent enough to permit a confident diagnosis of abscess formation.
Mesiodistal tooth width. A comparison between Saudi males and females. Part 1.	The aim of this study is to investigate whether there is a significant sex difference or not in the mesiodistal tooth width between Saudi males and females. 720 teeth were measured from a pre-treatment orthodontic study casts with equal distribution of the two sexes. The subjects were aged 13 to 20 years. An electronic digital caliper was used for the measurements. For the statistical analysis the Student's t-test was used. The result of this investigation showed that the canines in both jaws exhibited a significant sex differences while the other teeth did not. Hence, this study confirms results obtained by other investigators and emphasize the fact that mesiodistal tooth width is an important factor in the assessment of crowding, spacing and orthodontic treatment planning.
Mesiodistal tooth width in a Saudi population sample comparing right and left sides. Part 2.	The objective of the present study was to investigate whether there was a significant difference or not in mesiodistal tooth width between the right and left sides in a Saudi sample. The measurements were obtained from 720 teeth of pretreatment orthodontic study casts. The results showed no significant statistical difference between right and left sides, which in agreement with literature. Thus, measurement of one side could be regarded as truly representative when the corresponding measurement on the other side was unobtainable.
Ophthalmic nursing in Saudi Arabia: a western expatriate's perspective.	The purpose of this first article in a series "Ophthalmic nursing in Saudi Arabia: A western expatriate's perspective" is to acquaint readers with Saudi Arabia and the King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital in Riyadh. In subsequent articles, the various challenges which face both the expatriate nursing staff and the local Saudi nurses in this setting will be addressed. The King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital presents an unique and challenging ophthalmic nursing experience for the expatriate with an adventurous spirit!
Education and training programs for expatriate and Saudi nurses at KKESH.	The purpose of this second article in a series of "Ophthalmic nursing in Saudi Arabia: A western expatriate's perspective" is to acquaint readers with the education and training programs for the expatriate nursing staff and Saudi nurses at the King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital (KKESH) in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
The cultural challenges of educating Saudi ophthalmic patients at KKESH.	The purpose of this final article in a three-part series "Ophthalmic nursing in Saudi Arabia: A western expatriate's perspective" is to acquaint readers with some of the cultural challenges confronting the expatriate nursing staff when educating Saudi ophthalmic patients at the King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital (KKESH) in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The foreign nurse is able to plan and provide patient education that is culturally compatible, by possessing an increased awareness and understanding of the diversity in Saudi culture and how it influences their healthcare beliefs.
Retinal vein occlusion in Saudi Arabia: possible role of dehydration.	The medical records of 90 patients with a clinical diagnosis of retinal vein occlusion (RVO) who were seen at two referral hospitals in Saudi Arabia were reviewed. Sixty-eight (75.6%) were men. Central RVO was present in 50 patients (55.6%); branch RVO, in 35 patients (38.9%); and hemiretinal occlusion, in five patients (5.6%). Arterial hypertension was present in 43 patients (47.8%); diabetes mellitus, in 28 patients (31%); and preexisting glaucoma, in 26 patients (28.9%). The date of onset of RVO was available in 61 patients. Eighteen attacks (29.5%) had occurred during the month of Ramadan. The Student's t test of paired samples indicated that the incidence of RVO during the month of Ramadan was significantly higher than that of the other months of the Gregorian year. These findings suggest that dehydration may play a role in the pathogenesis of RVO.
Studies on the ectoparasites (fleas and lice) on rodents in Riyadh and its surroundings, Saudi Arabia.	A survey was conducted on rodents from the Riyadh City and surroundings. Two species of fleas, Xenopsylla cheopis and Ctenocephalides felis felis together with Polyplax spinulosa were collected. The highest infestation rate by both fleas occurred on Rattus rattus followed by Rattus norvegicus and Mus musculus. Females of R. rattus and R. norvegicus were more infested by fleas than males. On the other hand, Meriones spp., Gerbillus spp., Jaculus jaculus and Acomys dimidiatus were infested with X. cheopis and C.f. felis. The highest infestation rate by fleas occurred on Gerbillus spp. followed by Meriones spp.
Isoenzyme characterization of Leishmania isolates from patients in El Nour Specialized Hospital, Saudi Arabia.	No doubt, the three forms of leishmaniasis (VL, ZCL & ACL) are well documented in Saudi Arabia. The basis of epidemiological studies must be adequate identification of the Leishmania patients. Seven leishmanial strains have been isolated from patients attending El Nour Specialized Hospital, Makka Al Mokarrama. The majority of the patients of this hospital are temporary visitors to Makka Al Mokarrama for "Haj and Omra". Isoenzyme characterization by cellulose acetate electrophores's used nine enzymes was done. The seven isolates were: two L. donovani zymodeme LON 41 (Indian patient) and LON 46 (Sudanese patient); three L. tropica zymodeme LON 71 (2 Yemeri patients) and LON 22 (Egyptian patient) and two L. major zymodeme LON 4 (2 Saudi patients).
A study of the impact of Arabic coffee consumption on serum cholesterol.	Consumption of Arabic coffee is commonly practised by Saudi citizens. The present study was conducted to explore the possible relationship between the serum total cholesterol levels and the intake of Arabic coffee. A total of 252 adult Saudi individuals were recruited, of whom 143 were coffee drinkers and 109 did not drink coffee. The study showed that in comparison to the non-coffee drinkers the serum total cholesterol concentration was significantly higher among the coffee drinkers. Furthermore, the level was higher among females than males who were coffee drinkers. The effect of the duration of coffee consumption on the serum total was significant for both sexes (P < 0.001). It is suggested that further studies should be generated in order to address questions related to the issues discussed. At the present time a reduction in coffee consumption by those groups found to be more liable to adverse influence on their serum total cholesterol levels to have a positive influence should be considered.
Nutritional status, food consumption and food supply of studies in Saudi Aribia. I. Anthropometric data]	A field study about the nutritional status was made in school classes with boys 6 to 19 years old in different regions of Saudi-Arabia. It is reported about 341 pupils in regard to weight, height, skinfold-thickness, circumferences and other body-size measurements. In comparison with anthropometric measurements of comparable surveys in other countries, the Saudi-Arabian school boys were found to be smaller and leaner than boys from the USA, Europe, other Arabian countries and well-to-do Indian boys.
Leishmania tropica in Egypt: an undesirable import.	Cutaneous as well as visceral leishmaniasis has been previously reported in Egypt. The former clinical manifestation is attributed to Leishmania major, the latter to L. infantum. In this study, L. tropica was isolated from an Egyptian labourer returning from Saudi Arabia. Amastigotes were detected by both Giemsa staining and indirect immunofluorescence using rabbit anti-gp63. Promastigotes from Schneider's medium were typed isoenzymatically as L. tropica. In view of the emerging threat of visceralization of L. tropica, the potential risk for its transmission in Egypt is discussed.
Friedreich's ataxia, with retained lower limb tendon reflexes, in a Saudi Arabian family.	Friedreich's ataxia (FA) was studied in a large inbred Arab family living near Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, in which DNA linkage studies localised the disease gene to 9q13-q21.1. Five siblings (aged 19-35 years), and their 27 year old cousin, had the typical features of FA, however in two patients, tendon reflexes were retained and were indeed brisk in the lower limbs, 13 and 19 years respectively after onset of symptoms: retention of lower limb tendon reflexes is exceptional in FA. Another 6 deceased individuals from two related families are presumed to have had FA.
Minimal invasive surgery: a district hospital experience.	This was a prospective analysis of the first 162 patients who underwent biliary and nonbiliary minimally invasive (video laparoscopic) procedures in the Royal Commission Medical Centre (RCMC) over two periods separated by a one year interval (September 1993-September 1994)-(October 1995-February 1996). One hundred and fifty patients had video laparoscopic cholecystectomy (VLC). Thirty four males and 116 females with a mean age of 39.7 years (range 16-80). Forty two patients (28%) were admitted as emergency (37 acute cholecystitis, 5 acute pancreatitis). The indication for VLC was symptomatic gall stones. The VLC was accomplished successfully in 144 patients (96%). Six patients (2 electives and 4 emergency) required a conversion for various reasons, unfavourable anatomy being the commonest. Ten patients with preoperative evidence of a dilated common bile duct, with or without stones had an ERCP done in another hospital 200 km away. The median operative time was 100 minutes (range 30-270 minutes) There were three major complications (one CBD injury, one bleeding from gall bladder bed and one post operative acute pancreatitis) and 6 minor complications (urethral bleeding, atelectasis post-operative pyrexia, umbilical port cellulitis, prolonged ileus and acute anxiety state). The median hospital stay was 72 hours for successful VLC. Twenty five per cent of the patients did not require any narcotic analgesic. Twelve patients (7.4%) had one or another non-biliary video laparoscopic procedure. Our results suggest that VLC can be offered and performed safely in the majority of patients presenting with acute and/or chronic cholecystitis and that the results we achieved in a district hospital are comparable to other series. We conclude that VLC will continue to be demanded by patients and non-biliary video laparoscopic procedures which were slow to develop in our hospital will continue to need special training, interest and expertise before it can be adopted as a routine.
Acute rheumatic fever in southern Saudi Arabia.	Forty six attacks of acute rheumatic fever (ARF) in forty patients were diagnosed between November 1987 and August 1995. Thirty four were initial attacks and 12 were recurrences. Arthritis was the commonest feature, 84.8%. Carditis occurred in 65.2% of the group, 67.6% of the initial attacks and 58.3% of the recurrences; however, the frequency of moderate/severe carditis was higher in recurrences, 25% versus 11.8%. Of those with carditis, mitral regurgitation occurred in 93.3%, aortic regurgitation in 16.7% and significant tricuspid regurgitation in 6.7%. Mitral stenosis was not encountered. No mortality occurred during ARF. Chorea, erythema marginatum and subcutaneous nodules were infrequent. These data are similar with those from a previous study which demonstrated the mild nature of ARF in Saudi Arabia, but showed higher frequency of carditis and suggested the frequency of carditis was not significantly higher during recurrences as compared to frequency of moderate/severe carditis.
Effect of insecticides on vital activity, hepatic enzymes and red blood cell acetyl cholinesterase activity of rabbits in Makkah.	Developing animals and invertebrate are markedly more sensitive to acute toxicity through exposure to insecticides. Varieties of insecticides are used for hygienic control in Makkah holy places. The present study examines the acute effects of commonly used insecticides in Makkah area. Rosfin as an organophosphorus, Airlen as a pyrethroid and Sulvac as a carbamate derivative were tested for their effects on vital activities, hepatic transaminases, serum triglycerides and acetyl cholinesterase activity of rabbits. The insecticides were tested in same and double concentration used for insect control by Makkah's municipal authorities. Compressed air was used as a source of pressure for spraying wooden boxes designed for habitation of animals during the experiments. There were no significant changes in vital activities of rabbits in both concentrations. However, serum glutamate pyuvate transaminase (SGPT) and serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (SGOT) showed irregular changes (mild decrease or increase) in all groups, while triglyceride showed mild rise after six days exposure in case of double concentration. Acetyl cholinesterase showed mild increase in activity after five minutes incubation time, but there was unnoticed increase in activity after 15, 25, 35 and 45 minutes of incubation. In case of Airlen, the activity increased after five minutes of incubation and decreased thereafter. In conclusion, insecticides used in the holy places of Makkah area have no apparent effects on vital activity, acetyl cholinesterase activity and showed no significant effect on rabbit hepatic transaminases and serum triglyceride.
Childhood absence epilepsy with tonic-clonic seizures and electroencephalogram 3-4-Hz spike and multispike-slow wave complexes: linkage to chromosome 8q24.	Childhood absence epilepsy (CAE), a common form of idiopathic generalized epilepsy, accounts for 5%-15% of childhood epilepsies. To map the chromosomal locus of persisting CAE, we studied the clinical and electroencephalographic traits of 78 members of a five-generation family from Bombay, India. The model-free affected-pedigree member method was used during initial screening with chromosome 6p, 8q, and 1p microsatellites, and only individuals with absence seizures and/or electroencephalogram 3-4-Hz spike- and multispike-slow wave complexes were considered to be affected. Significant P values of .00000-.02 for several markers on 8q were obtained. Two-point linkage analysis, assuming autosomal dominant inheritance with 50% penetrance, yielded a maximum LOD score (Zmax) of 3.6 for D8S502. No other locus in the genome achieved a significant Zmax. For five smaller multiplex families, summed Zmax was 2.4 for D8S537 and 1.7 for D8S1761. Haplotypes composed of the same 8q24 microsatellites segregated with affected members of the large family from India and with all five smaller families. Recombinations positioned the CAE gene in a 3.2-cM interval.
Control of foot-and-mouth disease through vaccination and the isolation of infected animals.	Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) within Saudi Arabian dairy herds has been controlled for the past decade through vaccination. Data from 19 outbreaks on Saudi farms has suggested that the durability of these vaccines extended for 2.5 months, providing an 81-98% level of protection. Vaccination has nevertheless failed to prevent the establishment and sometimes persistence of the disease. This is probably because the highly contagious nature of FMD creates increasing levels of viral excretion during an outbreak, and the co-habitation in Saudi farms of affected/susceptible animals following diagnosis, predisposes the herds to re-infection. Pre-clinical excretion of the virus leads to the infection of additional in-contact susceptible animals prior to diagnosis, so the isolation of clinically infected animals does not guarantee a removal of infection. Saudi Arabian farms are subdivided into managed farm pens and isolation (away from the farm) of all animals in infected pens not only removes the infectious individuals showing clinical signs, but also those that are sub-clinical and excreting virus. Simulations suggest that removing all infectious animals from the herd significantly reduces the per cent infected in the herd.
Klebsiella pneumoniae bloodstream infections in neonates in a hospital in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.	To identify risk factors for Klebsiella pneumoniae bloodstream infections (BSI) in neonates in a hospital in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA).
Biochemical and hormonal changes associated with experimental infection of chicks with infectious bursal disease virus.	The inoculation of chicks with the infectious bursal disease (IBD) virus manifested typical clinical signs indicative of IBD viral infection. The inoculated birds seroconverted and showed significantly decreased total protein, lipid and a decrease in the albumin to globulin ratio. A significant increase was seen in the concentration of corticosterone and thyroxine but not in the triiodothyronine level.
Mobilization of the interdisciplinary critical care team at home and abroad.	Already it is clear that managed care organizations seek delivery innovations that can move homecare beyond being a posthospitalization add-on to becoming a true alternative to hospitalization. Throughout its history, home health care nurses have epitomized Florence Nightingale's philosophy that nurses are "messengers of health as well as ministers of disease." With the development of more sophisticated models of interdisciplinary practice in high-tech homecare, nurses are in a position to help create a health care delivery system that in a sense brings people back to the future. The natural setting of the home is the best place to provide holistic care, it is where patients overwhelmingly prefer to be cared for, and it is affordable. Indeed, affordability has become the operant word, worldwide, for a health care delivery system that can continue to meet the growing demands of the future.
Culturally competent health care: a challenge for nurses in Saudi Arabia.	An emerging global reality is the presence of a culturally diverse workforce in health care environments. Not only are nurses delivering care to culturally diverse clients, the nurses themselves may come from different cultural and educational backgrounds. In order to provide culturally competent health care, such diversity must be molded into professional collaboration and respect. To date, health care to the citizens of Saudi Arabia has been provided largely by a foreign labor force, the vast majority of whom are non-Arabic speaking. This paper explores a number of strategies aimed at educating expatriate non-Saudi health professionals in the provision of culturally competent and culturally congruent health care. Leininger's transcultural health care theory is identified as the framework for achieving this goal. The theory has proved to be of great relevance in a hospital setting where some 40 different nationalities are represented among the work force. In such a setting, the potential for cultural conflict and stress is very real. Health professionals new to the Kingdom are introduced to the cultural dimensions of health care as it relates to patient care modes, as well as living and working together in a transcultural environment. Transcultural nursing is a major component of a professional nurse practice model which provides a visionary perspective for nursing care. Within the practice model, transcultural care principles are used to guide education, clinical practice and nursing research. Furthermore, Leininger's theory serves to grasp a comprehensive view of generic (folk) and professional health systems and to identify ethical issues confronted by nurses in the transcultural setting.
Influence of alpha-thalassemia on cholelithiasis in SS patients with elevated Hb F.	Chronic hemolysis, with consequent hyperbilirubinemia, predisposes SS patients to pigment gallstones. The other factors which influence the development of stones in these patients have not been identified. We have carried out a combined prospective and retrospective study of SS patients in Kuwait and specifically investigated the influence of coexistent alpha-thal trait on the prevalence of gallstones. A total of 45 patients (30 males, 15 females) with ages ranging from 1 to 16 years (mean 7.2 +/- 3.1) were studied. Most were either homozygotes for the Saudi Arabia/India haplotype (86.7%) or compound heterozygotes for this and the Benin haplotype (11.1%). They were screened for gallstones with ultrasonography. alpha-Globin genotypes were determined using a combination of PCR and allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization techniques to identify the common alpha-thalassemia alleles in this population. Gallstones were detected in 7 (15.6%) patients (4 males, 3 females), whose mean age (10.5 +/- 5.5 years) was significantly higher than that (6.8 +/- 3.2 years) of those without stones (p < 0.01). The mean total Hb of the former (8.4 +/- 0.8 g/dl) was also significantly (p < 0.05) lower than in the latter (9.5 +/- 1.3 g/dl), while the difference in mean Hb F levels was not significant. None of the 4 alpha-thal homozygotes had gallstones while 2 of 13 heterozygotes and 5 of the 23 patients without coexistent alpha-thal had. The differences in these proportions are statistically significant (chi2 = 20.4, p < 0. 001). It therefore appears that coexistent alpha-thal decreases the chance of developing gallstones in Arab SS patients. This may be related to less hemolysis in such patients as shown by their higher mean Hb level.
