Crossreacting IgG antibodies against fox mite antigens in human scabies.	Scabies continues to be an important parasitic disease of mammals. There remain, however, major gaps in the understanding of the human host immune response, and a simple diagnostic test is lacking. In contrast to human mites, red fox mites (Sarcoptes scabiei var. vulpis) can be collected easily and have been used, due to crossreactivity, for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) studies in dogs and pigs. We wanted to investigate the possibility that crossreactivity might also exist for the human mite, and determined titers against fox mite antigens by ELISA in 41 patients with scabies. Specific IgG was significantly higher in patients with scabies than in healthy controls (P=0.01). The sensitivity was, however, only 48%, although it increased slightly during treatment (P=0.86). A positive correlation was also noted between disease duration and severity of infestation (r=0.5), with specific IgG titers increasing in parallel with severity of symptoms (P=0.01). Patients with symptomatic scabies for more than 4 weeks had furthermore significantly higher IgG titers than patients with a shorter duration of disease (P=0.007). In conclusion, these findings demonstrate IgG antibodies in human scabies that crossreact with fox mite antigens, thus encouraging the search for improved ELISAs with more specific mite antigens to produce a more sensitive detection system for scabies in humans.
Cross-antigenicity between the scabies mite, Sarcoptes scabiei, and the house dust mite, Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus.	This study demonstrated that antigens of the parasitic mite Sarcoptes scabiei (SS) cross-react with antigens of the house dust mite Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (DP). Crossed immunoelectrophoresis (CIE) reaction of SS extract with rabbit anti-DP serum resulted in multiple immunoprecipitates. Reciprocal CIE reactions gave similar results. Immunoprecipitates from both reactions bound IgE in the sera of dust-mite-sensitive patients who had no history of scabies. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis resolved protein/peptide bands of both SS and DP also bound serum IgE from dust-mite-allergic patients following immunoblotting. Non-allergic control sera gave no IgE binding to either SS or DP antigens. These results indicate that patients with atopy to dust mites exhibit circulating antibodies built to DP but that recognize determinants on SS antigens. It is highly probable that scabietic patients build antibodies to SS antigens that also recognize DP antigens. These results raise questions concerning the reported isotypic antibody responses to SS because the sensitivity of scabietic patients to house dust mites has not been previously evaluated. This cross-reactivity may play an important role in the susceptibility to scabies and its clinical manifestations.
Increased number of dendritic cells in draining lymph nodes accompanies the generation of contact photosensitivity.	Draining lymph node cells isolated from mice 48 h after topical exposure to tetrachlorosalicylanilide (TCSA) + UVA radiation (TCSA + UVA) demonstrated a two-fivefold increase in the number of dendritic cells (DC) compared with control mice treated with vehicle + UVA. The increase in number of DC was both time and dose dependent, with the peak DC accumulation occurring at 48 h post application and at a TCSA dose of 1.0%. Photospecificity was evident in that mice irradiated prior to treatment with TCSA (UVA/TCSA) demonstrated no significant increase in DC accumulation. The accumulation of DC was followed by a significant increase in total lymph node cellularity. An in situ 3H-thymidine incorporation assay showed a significant increase in proliferative activity of cells isolated from the draining lymph nodes of mice treated with TCSA + UVA as compared to naive, vehicle, or UVA/TCSA-treated mice. Dendritic cells isolated from mice treated 24 h earlier with TCSA + UVA, but not those from naive mice or mice treated with UVA/TCSA, were capable of TCSA-specific antigen presentation. Responder lymphocytes from untreated mice or mice photosensitized with musk ambrette showed a much lower response to DC isolated from TCSA + UVA-treated mice, demonstrating the specificity of the reaction. DC-depleted lymph node cells were unable to stimulate this blastogenesis response. These results suggest that application and photoactivation of TCSA induces cellular and functional changes in the lymph node DC indicative of their involvement in the induction phase of a contact photoallergic reaction.
Immunoblot analysis of IgG antibody response to Sarcoptes scabiei in swine.	This study was performed to determine the frequencies and specificities of IgG antibodies binding to component of Sarcoptes scabiei extracts in swine with hypersensitive and chronic mange. The hypersensitive form is characterised by pruritus and the presence of small red papules over the flanks and belly. The chronic form is characterised by crusts, which contain large numbers of mites and are attached to the skin; the lesions are most commonly found on the internal pinna extending into the auditory canal. S. scabiei mite extract was separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with subsequent immunoblotting. IgG-binding proteins were detected with individual sera from 30 hypersensitive and 21 chronically infected pigs; eight "Specific Pathogen Free" pigs were used as negative controls. Seven protein bands with molecular weights ranging from >220 to 30 Kilodalton (KDD) (>220, 218, 110, 80, 66, 52, 36 KDD) strongly bound with IgG antibodies; five out of these seven components (218, 110, 80, 66, 52 KDD) bound also with sera from negative pigs. There is a statistically significant difference in the antigenic recognition spectra between hypersensitive and chronically infected pigs; component of >220 KDD is more frequently recognized by chronically infected pigs (P=0.0006, chi(2)=11.74), in contrast component of 36 KDD is more frequently recognized by hypersensitive pigs (P=0.001, chi(2)=10). Our results clearly indicate there is a difference in the reactivity to antigenic peptides/proteins of S. scabiei mite between hypersensitive and chronically infected pigs, and revealed that only two antigens may be considered S. scabiei-specific and used for diagnostic purposes in swine.
Sarcoptes scabiei: Specific immune response to sarcoptic mange in the Iberian ibex Capra pyrenaica depends on previous exposure and sex.	Host acquired immunity is a critical factor that conditions the survival of parasites. Nevertheless, there is a shortage of data concerning inter-individual immunological inequalities in wild mammals. Sarcoptic mange is a widespread parasitosis that severely affects mammals such as the Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica). Despite some work on the subject, the immune response to sarcoptic mange infestation is still a complex and poorly understood phenomenon. To improve knowledge of the host-Sarcoptes immunological interaction, 18 Iberian ibexes were experimentally infested. IgG levels were assessed using ELISA to test for potential factors determining the specific immune response to infestation. Previous exposure and sex appeared to affect the IgG response to infestation and our results suggest a sex-biased immunomodulation. We discuss the immunological pattern of host-Sarcoptes interactions and also suggest further lines of work that may improve the understanding of immunological interactions of host-Sarcoptes systems.
The immunology of scabies.	Scabies is an inflammatory skin disease caused by the mite Sarcoptes scabiei. The mite itself provokes little dermatitis. The rash and itch associated with scabies is probably a manifestation of immune response. The immune response may help to limit the number of infesting organisms either directly by toxic products generated during the reaction or indirectly by evoking scratch. Critical studies using purified antigens from scabies mites in vivo and in vitro will be necessary in order to clarify the nature of the antigens involved and the role of different types of immune responses in producing clinical disease.
Serum antibody profiles of Sarcoptes scabiei infested or immunized rabbits.	The circulating antibody profiles of rabbits infected or immunized with Sarcoptes scabiei var. canis were compared. Crossed immuno-electrophoretic analysis showed that infested hosts produced serum antibody to 12 proteins (antigens) in an extract made from sarcoptic mite bodies. In contrast, rabbits immunized with an extract made from mite bodies produced antibody to 20 Sarcoptes proteins (antigens). SDS-PAGE/immunoblot analysis revealed that serum from immunized rabbits contained antibodies that bound strongly to proteins of 25 and 39-52 kD that were only barely visualized by antibodies in serum from infested rabbits.
Serum IgE levels in scabies. Study about 100 cases]	IgE levels were determinated in 100 cases of human scabies. In 85 cases, the values are normal (mean value =160 UI/ml, 2 S.D.=528). In 15 cases with raised values, an associated disease (cirrhosis, atopic dermatitis) was always found. The results were compared with those of other authors.
