Scanning electron microscopic observations of extracted terminal hair follicles of the adult human scalp and eyebrow with special references to the bulge area.	Scanning electron microscopic studies of human terminal hair follicles of the scalp and eyebrow have previously been limited to the hair shaft. In this study we investigated EDTA-treated extracted whole hair follicles in which most of the basal cell surface of the outer root sheath was well preserved. In the bulge area of scalp follicles there were many knob-like or villous projections. These were located in some specimens on one side of the follicle, while in others they were located around the entire circumference of the follicle. These projections were thought to represent the anchoring points of the branched follicular end of the arrector muscles. Ring-like elevations with groove-like depressions above and below were also observed surrounding the entire follicle. These were thought to represent the track of circumfollicular arrector muscles which depressed the outer root sheath when they repeatedly contracted. Most anagen eyebrow follicles showed morphological variations in the bulge area such as lattice-window-like structures and undulation patterns. In telogen follicles, the bulge became indistinguishable from the clubbed end. The lower end of these telogen follicles showed irregularly shaped bulge areas, but did not show lattice-window-like structures or undulation patterns as observed in anagen follicles. Interestingly, a hole was found in some bulge areas of both anagen and telogen follicles. Serial vertical sections of follicles revealed invaginated areas, which seemed to correspond to the openings seen in whole mounts. In vertical sections of eyebrow follicles some keratinocytes of the outer root sheaths of the bulge area were seen to be melanized to various extents. This phenomen was independent of hair cycle phase.
Scanning electron microscopy of scales from pityriasis amiantacea.	The scanning electron microscope has been used to examine scales taken from the scalp of 3 patients with pityriasis amiantacea alone, 3 psoriatic patients with pityriasis amiantacea and one patient with both atopic dermatitis and pityriasis amiantacea. Samples from 2 patients were additionally studied by different fixation techniques and in the frozen hydrated state, but no cementing of the scales could be observed. There was no evidence of an infective agent.
A quantitative method for analysing AFM images of the outer surfaces of human hair.	Cuticle step height is an important parameter for the quantitative assessment of human hair. This paper describes a novel, computational method for the rapid calculation of step heights from atomic force microscope images obtained from large numbers of specimens. Such an approach is necessary to allow a statistical analysis of the inherently wide distribution of cuticle step heights characteristic of a single hair sample. The method described will be of use to cosmetic formulation chemists and forensic scientists and also to dermatologists in the field of disease diagnosis.
