Cutaneous concerns of scleroderma patients.	The clinical features of facial and oral involvement in scleroderma are striking. We conducted a survey of patients with systemic sclerosis (scleroderma). The purpose of our study was to ascertain what was most bothersome aesthetically to scleroderma patients. We also looked at the differences between age groups and genders. The survey was mailed to 1,000 individuals who subscribe to a national lay group organization. We received 303 completed surveys indicating the patient's age, gender, age at onset of disease, and a checklist of 14 physical variables involving the central face and non-face. The respondents were asked to rate their level of concern [on a scale of great (1) -moderate (2) -little (3) -none (4)] in regards to 14 different physical variables. The respondents consisted of 92% females and 8% males. The mean age was 59 years +/- 13 (SD), and the median age was 60. The mean and median age at diagnosis was 45 years +/- 15 (SD). The percentage of respondents expressing concern for specific features was the following: for thin lips (73%), mouth furrows (80%), loss of facial lines (68%), and a smaller, tighter mouth (77%). There was less concern over the non-face features. The percentage of respondents expressing no concern was the following: for absence of sweating (57%), skin darkening (50%), nail dystrophy (57%), and skin atrophy (63%). There was a highly statistically significant difference (p<0.0001) between those respondents concerned with central face features vs. non-face features. With advancing age and longer disease duration, there was increased concern over the aforementioned central face features (p<0.0001). The vast majority of patients with systemic sclerosis have great concerns over changing facial features, and this worsens with age.
Actinic keratoses]	Actinic keratoses are defined as proliferation of cytologically atypical keratinocytes in the zone of epidermal-dermal junction in photodamaged skin. In the northern hemisphere the prevalence of actinic keratoses ranges depending on different epidemiological studies from 11% to 25% for people aged 40 or older. The main cause of actinic keratoses is exposure to UVB radiation in sunlight UVB radiation induces mutations in the telomerase gene and in the tumor suppressor gene P53, which can also be detected in invasive squamous cell carcinoma. The only histological parameter to distinguish between actinic keratoses and SCC is the level of invasiveness. The risk for actinic keratoses to develop into SCC is about 16% over lo years. For this reason and because of the high prevalence of actinic keratoses, it has been suggested to replace the term,, actinic keratosis K with intraepidermal squamous cell carcinoma' to better characterize the lesion. In the following review recent aspects of pathogenesis and therapy of actinic keratoses are discussed.
Scalp skin lesion in Turner syndrome: more than lymphoedema?	We present a case of a newborn with Turner syndrome (TS) and a scalp skin lesion resembling cutis verticis gyrata (CVG). Several reports on CVG in TS describe the lesions and correlate it with lymphoedema frequently seen in foetuses and infants with Turner syndrome. Histological examination in this case, however, shows a congenital mucinous nevus. Possibly an abnormal amount of proteoglycans in the skin of patients with TS can clarify the occurrence of this type of skin lesion.
Scalp necrosis in temporal arteritis]	Temporal arteritis is a systemic granulomatous vasculitis affecting large and medium sized arteries. Scalp necrosis is a rare complication that can appear before, during and after treatment.
Massive subgaleal hematoma following minor head trauma.	A 23-month-old child developed massive head swelling secondary to a subgaleal hematoma several days following minor head trauma. When seen in the emergency department, the child was felt to be otherwise well and hemodynamically stable and was discharged with close follow-up. The hematoma subsequently resolved over the ensuing two weeks. This case represents an uncommon, but dramatic complication of minor head trauma and serves to illustrate the need for physicians to recognize this entity as well as manage it effectively. The major pitfalls in managing these patients are failure to recognize this entity and, particularly in the infant, failure to carefully assess the hemodynamic status.
Allergy and toxicodermia from shiitake mushrooms.	Skin and respiratory symptoms developed within 2 months of exposure in a patient involved in the commercial production of shiitake mushrooms. A diagnosis of contact urticaria and allergic contact dermatitis from shiitake mushrooms was confirmed by prick and patch tests. The respiratory symptoms, their timing, the presence of precipitating IgG antibodies to shiitake spores and increased amounts of inflammatory cells and T lymphocytes in bronchoalveolar lavage indicated allergic alveolitis (mushroom worker's disease). A generalized exanthem developed in a second patient after eating raw shiitake mushrooms. Reactions to prick and patch tests with shiitake mushrooms were negative. The skin eruption in this patient corresponded to the previously reported shiitake-induced toxicodermia.
Skin necrosis in a patient with temporal arteritis]	We present the case of a 91 years old patient diagnosed through biopsy with temporal arteritis who, in addition, had scalp necrosis. We briefly review the literature for published cases.
Vesicular eruption of vacuum-assisted delivery.	Vacuum-assisted delivery has been associated with several complications, including rare vesicular eruptions. Herpes simplex virus has been cultured in a substantial portion of these cases. A case of vesicular eruption from vacuum-assisted delivery is presented in a 1-day-old neonate. The patient was placed on empiric acyclovir until viral cultures and polymerase chain reaction for herpes simplex virus were found to be negative. The lesions resolved without sequelae. The vesicular eruption of vacuum-assisted delivery is probably secondary to mechanical trauma. Clinicians should be aware of the possible risk of herpes simplex virus infection, instituting antiviral therapy until this is excluded. 
Tufted folliculitis of the scalp]	Tufted hair folliculitis is a localized scarring bacterial folliculitis due to Staphylococcus aureus. We present two cases.
Acquired localized epidermolysis bullosa. A case with scalp involvement and immunoelectron microscopic study]	The case of a 59-year old man who had a clinical Brunsting-Perry pemphigoid localized to the scalp is described. Direct immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated IgG and C3 immune deposits in the anchoring fibril zone, as in epidermolysis bullosa acquisita. No circulating antibodies were detected by Western immunoblotting on epidermal and dermal extracts. These findings show that Brunsting-Perry pemphigoid is not an immunological entity and that it widens the clinical spectrum of epidermolysis bullosa acquisita.
Cutis verticis gyrata: reduction surgical treatment]	Cutis verticis gyrata (CVG) is a rare cause of acquired scalp thickening; in its primary form, the disease does not show any bone involvement. A 19-year old man had noticed a moderate thickening of the scalp at the age of 15. He progressively developed ridges and furrows in the occipital and parietal areas: after a four-year period, there were ten sagittal and irregularly parallel folds. There was neither pain nor pruritus, and the hair had a normal appearance. Complete neurological examination was unremarkable and the patient was of normal intelligence. All biological investigations, including STH and TSH levels, were normal. X-ray examination and tomodensitometry did not show any bone involvement. Our patient was treated by surgical reduction of the scalp areas involved under general anesthesia, with a very good result. This is a typical case of primary CVG. Differential diagnosis of primary cutis verticis gyrata comprises pachydermoperiostosis, cerebriform intradermal nevus and many secondary conditions associated with hypertrophy and folding of the scalp. A relatively simple surgical treatment results in a major reduction of the scalp thickening, and avoids maceration.
