Composite scapular flap for reconstruction of complex humeral tissue loss: a case report]	We report a case of complex reconstruction after traumatic loss of bone and muscle of the upper third of the humerus. A composite flap using the lateral border of the scapula and the pediculated latissimus dorsi muscle was used. The latissimus dorsi flap covered the bony reconstruction and enabled elbow flexion. Outcome was very satisfactory at three years follow-up. The lateral border of the scapula is rarely used for bony reconstruction of the humerus. Free composite flaps with the lateral portion of the scapula and the latissimus dorsi muscle have been used to reconstruct tissue loss of the lower limb. We were unable to find another published case where this composite pediculated flap was used for the upper limb.
Microvascular study of the transmidline scapular flap vascularized by the contralateral circumflex scapular artery]	To observe the microvascular distribution of the transmidline scapular flap supplied by the contralateral circumflex scapular artery.
Mandibular reconstruction with osseous free flaps: functional results]	The aim of this retrospective study is to evaluate functional results of oromandibular reconstruction with osseous free flaps.
The free medial scapular osteofasciocutaneous flap for head and neck reconstruction.	A modification of the scapular free flap has been developed using the medial ridge of the scapula. This variation preserves the advantages of the previously described lateral scapular flap, providing abundant hairless skin and soft tissue, adequate bone for mandibular reconstruction, and a primarily closed asymptomatic and inconspicuous donor site. It adds the advantage of a longer vascular pedicle and enhanced versatility because it is independent of the parascapular artery. Furthermore, it eliminates the disadvantage of rotator cuff muscle weakness associated with the lateral scapular flap. Multiple skin paddles subtended by the common circumflex cutaneous scapular artery and the interconnecting dorsal thoracic fascia were used in 4 of the 9 patients in our series. The ability of this somewhat thinner bone to incorporate biointegrable implants is unproven.
Reconstruction of facial contour in hemifacial atrophy (Romberg disease) using a free revascularized scapula-fat-fascia flap]	Presented is a case of progressive hemifacial atrophy. The reconstruction of the deficient left face-contour was performed by a free microsurgical transplanted fat-fascia flap from the scapular region. The position of the fascial layer of the inlay, facing skeletal and muscular structures, enables fixation of the transplanted tissue to zygomatic periosteum and fascia of the temporalis muscle. Thus we have advantage to avoid sagging of the transplanted tissue in upright position and to remove over-correcting applied amounts of fatty tissue during the first corrective operation.
Consequences of bony free flap's pedicle calcification after jaw reconstruction.	Most of the time, discovery of free flap pedicle calcification is fortuitous. We describe this phenomenon, try to elucidate its consequences, and discuss about prevention. We studied the effect of radiotherapy on the onset of calcification. We describe the first case of pedicle calcification with a scapula free flap.
Premature fusion of facial sutures with free periosteal grafts. An experimental study with special reference to bone formation with free periosteal grafts from the tibia, the scapula and the calvarium.	The present study was undertaken to obtain more information on the bone forming mechanisms with free periosteal grafts and to study premature synostosis of facial sutures achieved with free periosteal grafts. The results are based on a material of 196 rabbits operated on at the age of two weeks. It was found that the bone forming mechanism with free periosteal grafts from the tibia, the scapula and the calvarium is essentially the same. When implanted in the tibialis anterior muscle of the leg of the same animal they all produced bone. The mechanism of bone formation is reminiscent of the enchondral bone formation seen in fracture healing. There is no difference in the bone forming mechanism with the periosteum from an enchondrally ossifying bone when compared with the periosteum of an intramembranously ossifying bone. In all the three different periosteal grafts studied, there was a cartilage stage before bone formation. In the muscle, all these three periosteal grafts, in spite of their tubular or membranous bone origin, produced bones tubular in shape. When the transplants were overlying the membranaceous facial bones, membrane shaped bone developed via intramembraneceous type of ossification in the recipient area. It can be concluded from these experiments that the shape and type of bone developed with free periosteal grafts depends mainly on the environmental conditions in the recipient area. Fusion of the premaxillo-maxillary and fronto-nasal sutures was achieved with free periosteal grafts from the tibia. Free periosteal grafts from the scapula and the calvarium failed to develop premature fusion of the sutures. The fusion developed due to increased bone formation in the suture area. The fusion of the premaxillo-maxillary suture stopped the growth in this area and caused a severe growth disturbance of the whole snout. The fusion of the fronto-nasal suture by the bone bridge retarded the growth of the nasal bone on the fused side and led to deviation of the snout to the operated side. Compensatory changes developed in other sites of the cranio-facial skeleton in order to minimize the effects of the growth disturbance. The fused fronto-nasal suture was used as a model to study the treatment of premature synostosis of facial bones. Resection of the fused area led to correction of the developed growth disturbance and to subsequent normal growth of the snout.
Dental implantation to free scapular bone flap used for mandibular reconstruction.	Three patients who underwent mandibular reconstruction with a free vascularized scapular osteocutaneous flap after tumor resection are presented. Dental reconstruction was performed on three patients by implanting an artificial dental root into the grafted bone. The procedures for dental implantation were done just as on a normal jaw, and did not require hospitalization of the patients. They were followed up for 3 to 5 years after dental reconstruction. They have been able to masticate and ingest in a virtually normal manner during these periods. They also showed good appearance of the reconstructed mandible and dentes. On the basis of these results, the indication and evaluation of this procedure are discussed.
