Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) expression protects against diet induced atherosclerosis in SR-BI deficient mice.	To determine whether expression of the human CETP transgene protects against diet-induced atherosclerosis in SR-BI deficient mice.
Scavenger receptor BI facilitates hepatic very low density lipoprotein production in mice.	Scavenger receptor BI (SR-BI) is a selective uptake receptor for HDL cholesterol but is also involved in the catabolism of apolipoprotein (apo)B-containing lipoproteins. However, plasma levels of apoB-containing lipoproteins increase following hepatic SR-BI overexpression, suggesting that SR-BI not solely mediates their catabolism. We therefore tested the hypothesis that hepatic SR-BI impacts on VLDL production. On day 7 following adenovirus (Ad)-mediated overexpression of SR-BI, VLDL-triglyceride and VLDL-apoB production rates were significantly increased (P < 0.001), whereas VLDL production was significantly lower in SR-BI knockout mice compared with controls (P < 0.05). In mice injected with AdSR-BI, hepatic cholesterol content increased (P < 0.001), microsomal triglyceride transfer protein activity was higher (P < 0.01) and expression of sterol-regulatory element binding protein (SREBP)2 and its target genes was decreased (P < 0.01). Conversely, in SR-BI knockout mice, microsomal triglyceride transfer protein activity was lower and expression of SREBP2 target genes was increased (P < 0.01). Finally, we demonstrate in vitro in isolated primary hepatocytes as well as in vivo that cholesterol derived from HDL and taken up via SR-BI into the liver can be resecreted within VLDL. These data indicate that hepatic SR-BI expression is linked to VLDL production, and within liver, a metabolic shunt might exist that delivers HDL cholesterol, at least in part, to a pool from which cholesterol is mobilized for VLDL production. These results might have implications for HDL-based therapies against atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, especially with SR-BI as target.
Pharmacological LXR activation reduces presence of SR-B1 in liver membranes contributing to LXR-mediated induction of HDL-cholesterol.	Pharmacological LXR activation has anti-atherosclerotic actions in animal models. Part of these beneficial effects may be explained by accelerated reverse cholesterol transport since both plasma high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and fecal neutral sterol secretion are higher upon LXR activation. Mechanisms underlying these LXR-mediated effects have not been fully elucidated.
Scavenger receptor BI and high-density lipoprotein regulate thymocyte apoptosis in sepsis.	Thymocyte apoptosis is a major event in sepsis; however, how this process is regulated remains poorly understood.
