Prenatal vitamin C status is associated with placental apoptosis in normal-term human pregnancies.	Pregnancy is associated with increased susceptibility to oxidative stress. Deficiencies in antioxidants during pregnancy and placental oxidant-antioxidant imbalance may impair the development of the fetoplacental unit or the eventual offspring. In order to elucidate the association of prenatal status of vitamin C with the oxidative stress and apoptotic activity in normal full-term placentas, we evaluated the content of placental lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor-1 (LOX-1) and the trophoblast apoptotic index in normal-term human pregnancies. Tissue samples of placentas obtained from 80 normal-term pregnancies were categorized into 40 cases with a lower level of prenatal vitamin C (< 8.997 microg/ml) and 40 cases with a higher level of prenatal vitamin C (> or =11.734 microg/ml). We evaluated the placental LOX-1 content and the trophoblast apoptotic index with Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry, and then determined their correlation with the prenatal status of vitamin C. We confirmed that the trophoblast expression for the endothelial scavenger receptor LOX-1 and the apoptotic activity were significantly lower in the group with a higher prenatal level of vitamin C, indicating that placental oxidative stress and the apoptotic index were associated with the maternal status of vitamin C. We therefore postulate that the maternal status of antioxidant vitamins during pregnancy can affect fetal development.
Lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor (LOX-1) functions as an oligomer and oligomerization is dependent on receptor density.	Lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor (LOX-1) exists as a homodimer formed by an intermolecular disulfide bond. Although the dimer is the minimum structural unit of LOX-1 on cell membranes, LOX-1 can form larger noncovalent oligomeric complexes. But, the functional unit of LOX-1 is not known. We quantitatively analyzed the correlation between cyan fluorescent protein-tagged LOX-1 expression and the fluorescence-labeled ligand (DiD-AcLDL) binding ability on each cell. The results clearly indicate that there is a threshold level of expression that enables LOX-1 to bind ligand. Above this threshold level, the ability of LOX-1 to bind ligand was proportional to its level of expression. Using the membrane impermeable crosslinker BS(3), we detected oligomers (primarily hexamers) only on the cell lines that stably expressed LOX-1 above the threshold level. In contrast, little oligomer or ligand binding was detected in cell lines expressing LOX-1 below the threshold level. Moreover, oligomerization was independent of ligand binding. These results indicate that the functional unit of LOX-1 is an oligomer and that oligomerization of LOX-1 is dependent on the receptor density on the plasma membrane.
Oxidized low-density lipoprotein and atherosclerosis implications in antioxidant therapy.	Low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol is important for cellular function, but in high concentrations, it can lead to atheroma formation. Over the past several decades, it has become abundantly evident that the oxidized form of LDL-cholesterol (ox-LDL) is more important in the genesis and progression of atherosclerosis than native unmodified LDL-cholesterol. Ox-LDL leads to endothelial dysfunction, an initial step in the formation of an atheroma. Ox-LDL acts via binding to a number of scavenger receptors (SR), such as SR-A1, SR-A2 and lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor (LOX-1). Ox-LDL can upregulate expression of its own receptor LOX-1 on endothelial cells and activate these cells. In addition, ox-LDL promotes the growth and migration of smooth muscle cells, monocytes/macrophages and fibroblasts. Ox-LDL also leads to the generation of reactive oxygen species that in physiologic concentrations combat invasion of the body by noxious agents, but when in excess, can lead to a state of oxidative stress. There is evidence for the presence of oxidative stress in a host of conditions such as atherosclerosis and aging. In this review, we discuss the role of oxidative stress, ox-LDL and LOX-1 in atherogenesis and the reasons why the traditional approaches to limit oxidant stress have not been successful.
Oxidized low-density lipoprotein antigen transport induces autoimmunity in the renal tubulointerstitium.	Chronic kidney disease involves inflammation/oxidative stress, which contributes to progressive kidney injury.
The variability of oxLDL-induced cytotoxicity on different types of cell lines.	The epidemiologic studies indicated an association of obesity with increased incidence of colorectal, breast and ovarian cancer. Further studies found a positive correlation between increased serum oxLDL and an increased risk of the three cancers. In contrast, our previous studies found a negative correlation between the serum oxLDL levels and the risk of leukemia and esophageal cancer. Identification of the variability of cytotoxicity of oxLDL-induced on different types of cell lines is important for understanding the mechanism of oxLDL involved in the tumorigenesis. In the present study, we investigated the effective impacts of oxLDL on the proliferation and apoptosis for the human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) and two cancer cell lines (EC-9706 and K562/AO2 with multi-drug resistance). HUVEC, K562/AO2 and EC-9706 cell lines were cultured in the presence of oxLDL, and cell proliferation was tested by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, apoptosis and cell cycle by flow cytometer, mRNA expression by RT-PCR and protein expression by Western blot. OxLDL could inhibit proliferation and apoptosis of the three cell lines; however, there were significant differences of effective action on the viability and apoptosis. The dose of oxLDL-induced cytotoxicity on HUVEC was higher than that on the two tumor cells. The antibody of lectin-like oxLDL receptor-1 (LOX-1-ab) can block oxLDL-induced cytotoxicity. Cells apoptosis is mediated by reducing Bcl-2 and increasing Bax and caspase-3 mRNA and protein expression. This study showed the dose of oxLDL-induced cytotoxicity on HUVEC was higher than that on K562/AO2 and EC-9706 tumor cells. The antibody of LOX-1 receptor can block the oxLDL-induced cytotoxicity. 
LOX-1, OxLDL, and atherosclerosis.	Oxidized low-density lipoprotein (OxLDL) contributes to the atherosclerotic plaque formation and progression by several mechanisms, including the induction of endothelial cell activation and dysfunction, macrophage foam cell formation, and smooth muscle cell migration and proliferation. Vascular wall cells express on their surface several scavenger receptors that mediate the cellular effects of OxLDL. The lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor-1 (LOX-1) is the main OxLDL receptor of endothelial cells, and it is expressed also in macrophages and smooth muscle cells. LOX-1 is almost undetectable under physiological conditions, but it is upregulated following the exposure to several proinflammatory and proatherogenic stimuli and can be detected in animal and human atherosclerotic lesions. The key contribution of LOX-1 to the atherogenic process has been confirmed in animal models; LOX-1 knockout mice exhibit reduced intima thickness and inflammation and increased expression of protective factors; on the contrary, LOX-1 overexpressing mice present an accelerated atherosclerotic lesion formation which is associated with increased inflammation. In humans, LOX-1 gene polymorphisms were associated with increased susceptibility to myocardial infarction. Inhibition of the LOX-1 receptor with chemicals or antisense nucleotides is currently being investigated and represents an emerging approach for controlling OxLDL-LOX-1 mediated proatherogenic effects. 
