Design, synthesis, and in vivo evaluation of oxamniquine methacrylate and acrylamide prodrugs.	Oxamniquine is an antiparasitic agent commonly used in therapeutics against Schistosoma mansoni. Although it is well tolerated, some adverse effects justify the search for new compounds with prolonged biological action, so that monomeric and polymeric oxamniquine prodrugs were designed. Synthetic results assisted by molecular modeling study showed the possibility to obtain the corresponding monomeric forms of the oxamniquine methacrylate (1) and oxamniquine acrylamide (2). Successful copolymerization procedure only occurred on the methacrylic compound, generating the oxamniquine methacrylate copolymer (3). Submitted to a preliminary in vivo biological evaluation, a similar oxamniquine profile was observed to the monomeric forms although an inadequate drug release may be responsible for the methacrylic copolymer failure.
In vitro and in vivo activities of synthetic trioxolanes against major human schistosome species.	Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease that remains of considerable public health significance in tropical and subtropical environments. Since the mainstay of schistosomiasis control is chemotherapy with a single drug, praziquantel, drug resistance is a concern. Here, we present new data on the antischistosomal properties of representative synthetic 1,2,4-trioxolanes (OZs). Exposure of adult Schistosoma mansoni for 24 h to a medium containing 20 mug/ml OZ209 reduced worm motor activity, induced tegumental alterations, and killed worms within 72 h. While exposure of S. mansoni to OZ78 had no apparent effect, addition of hemin reduced worm motor activity and caused tegumental damage. Administration of single 200-mg/kg of body weight oral doses of OZ78, OZ209, and OZ288 to mice harboring a juvenile S. mansoni infection resulted in worm burden reductions of 82.0 to 95.4%. In the adult infection model in mice, single 400-mg/kg doses of these compounds resulted in a maximum total worm burden reduction of 52.2%. High worm burden reductions (71.7 to 86.5%) were observed after administration of single 200-mg/kg doses of OZ78 and OZ288 to hamsters infected with either juvenile or adult S. mansoni. A single 200-mg/kg dose of OZ78 to hamsters infected with adult Schistosoma japonicum resulted in total and female worm burden reductions of 94.2 to 100%. Our results, along with the low toxicity, metabolic stability, and good pharmacokinetic properties of the OZs, indicate the potential for the development of novel broad-spectrum antischistosomal OZ drug candidates.
Studies on chemotherapeutic agents against Schistosomiasis japonica: synthesis of benzimidazole derivatives]	A series of 3-(1H-benzimidazole-2)-2-propenoic acid derivatives were prepared and tested for schistosomicidal activity. The acid was proved to be a cis-isomer. Preliminary pharmacological tests showed that these compounds were in effective.
