Infection induces antibodies against the cercarial secretions, but not against the cercarial elastases of Schistosoma mansoni, Schistosoma haematobium, Schistosoma japonicum and Trichobilharzia ocellata.	Cercarial secretions from different species of the parasite Schistosoma and from Trichobilharzia ocellata contain a proteolytic activity, cercarial elastase, which was demonstrated by a 30 kDa band in gelatin gels. Sera of patients infected with Schistosoma mansoni, Schistosoma haematobium or Schistosoma japonicum contain immunoglobulin G which react in ELISA with cercarial secretions from all schistosomes and cross-react among the different parasite species. In Western blots, however, infection sera from patients, as well as heavily infected mice or rabbits, did not react with a 30-kDa protein. Moreover, when sections from infected snails (Biomphalaria, Bulinus and Lymnaea) were analysed by immunofluorescence using the same infection sera, only the tegument of the developing cercariae was recognized, but not the acetabular glands. In contrast, when antisera against purified cercarial elastase from either S. mansoni or S. haematobium were tested with sections of infected Biomphalaria or Bulinus, fluorescence was strong in the preacetabular glands of the cercariae of either species, but undetectable with the tegument. Cross-reactivity of both antisera extended to T. ocellata-infected Lymnaea, but not to S. japonicum-infected Oncomelania. In conclusion, although immunization with purified cercarial elastase results in antibody production, the enzyme does not induce an apparent antibody response following natural infection.
Identification and characterization of a UDP-GalNAc:GlcNAc beta-R beta 1-->4-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase from cercariae of the schistosome Trichobilharzia ocellata. Catalysis of a key step in the synthesis of N,N'-diacetyllactosediamino (lacdiNAc)-type glycans.	Three different stages of the avian schistosome Trichobilharzia ocellata appeared to contain a novel N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity. To investigate its function in the biosynthesis of schistosome glycoconjugates, the enzyme was partially purified from cercariae, a free-living stage of the parasite, by affinity chromatography on UDP-Sepharose. Acceptor specificity studies showed that the enzyme catalyses the transfer of N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) from UDP-GalNAc to oligosaccharides, glycopeptides and glycoproteins carrying a terminally beta-linked N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residue, regardless of the underlying structure. Analysis of the products obtained with GlcNAc and a desialylated and degalactosylated diantennary glycopeptide by 400 MHz 1H-NMR spectroscopy revealed that a GalNAc beta 1-->4GlcNAc (N,N'-diacetyllactosediamine,lacdiNAc) unit was formed. The enzyme can therefore be described as a UDP-GalNAc:GlcNAc beta-R beta 1-->4-N-acetylgalactosaminytransferase (beta 4-GalNAcT). Using specific acceptors, the enzyme could be distinguished from all other beta 4-GalNAcTs described to date, including the one from pituitary gland that is involved in the specific glycosylation of pituitary glycohormones. By contrast, the enzymatic properties of the schistosome beta 4-GalNAcT (except for the sugar-donor specificity) strongly resemble those of the beta 4-galactosyltransferase of higher animals, an enzyme which is known to control the synthesis of Gal1-->4GlcNAc (lacNAc)-type oligosaccharide chains. By analogy, the beta 4-GalNAcT is concluded to control the key step in the synthesis of lacdiNAc-type chains. LacdiNAc-type glycans are also common to the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis, which is the intermediate host of T.ocellata. It is proposed that the schistosome beta 4-GalNAcT functions in the expression of specific carbohydrate structures that contribute to a molecular mimicry, enabling the schistosome to evade the defence system of the snail host.
