Marie Francois Eloy de Beauvais and veterinary education in France, 1784]	Born in Méricourt-l'Abbé (France,) 1744, Marie-François de Beauvais entered the veterinary school in Lyon in 1762 where he was granted. In 1766, he is appointed professor at Alfort where he worked in anatomy with Fragonard. On 1771, he is sent to lle de France (today Isle Mauritius) where he studied cattle diseases. In 1784, he founded on the isle the 3rd French Royal Veterinary School. He was director until the occupation of the isle by British troops in 1810. He died in 1815 in Mauritius.
Liverpool Veterinary School: the first 100 years.	In 1904, Liverpool veterinary school became the first UK veterinary school to be incorporated into a university. This weekend, it marks its centenary with a symposium celebrating veterinary science and its contribution to animal and human health and welfare. Here, Alison Kraft traces the history of the school and argues that its foundation was a turning point for veterinary education in the UK.
Veterinary education in South Africa: the classes of 1928 and 1929.	The available photographs of the Classes of 1928 and 1929 are confusing because they not only bear the same date (1929) but are also composed of individual shots of the graduates rather than the customary group photograph. An answer to the riddle was provided by the presence of J A Thorburn (a member of the Class of 1927) who was a 'super' and qualified in 1928, in the one photograph, together with M C Robinson who also graduated in 1928. The photograph dated 1929 on which 4 graduates and the Dean, Prof. Dr P J du Toit, appear is that of the Class of 1928. The other photograph dated 1929 in which the Dean is absent is therefore dated correctly. Concise descriptions are given of the life histories of the nine graduates. Their careers show considerable variation. Only one of them spent his entire career at the Onderstepoort Research Institute as a very eminent research scientist and professor, and two became well-known professors at the Onderstepoort Faculty. Two were in municipal service for most of their careers and a third ended up working for a municipal authority after spending some time in England and at the Onderstepoort Research Institute. Two spent virtually their entire careers in the field as state veterinarians and a third farmed for most of his career, although he also dabbled in private practice and managed one of the provincial game parks in Natal (now KwaZulu-Natal) for some time. Four served in the South African Veterinary Corps during World War II.
Anatomy lessons on animals]	The first anatomical studies were realized on the animal by Galen and Vesalius. Bourgelat created the first veterinarian school in Lyons, then in Paris where the famous dissection of a man on his horse can be seen (Fragonard). The Lafosse dynasty was interested in the study of the horse care and the painter Sollier showed the most beautiful coloured engravings about the horses. A chair of anatomy was created to compare the human and animal anatomy by the school of Jardin des Plantes en 1855.
The economic Section of the Dutch Society for Sciences]	In 1777 the "Economic Section" was founded as a branch of the "Dutch Society for Sciences" in Haarlem. It is the oldest organization in the area of economy in the Netherlands. The aim of the society was to stop the economic recession in the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands and to stimulate economic growth by spreading practical knowledge concerning industry and agriculture (including veterinary medicine). The Economic Section tried to achieve this by awarding prizes for the best essays on various problems in society. In this article special attention is paid to those essays with solutions concerning veterinary medicine and animal husbandry sent in during the second half of the 18th and the beginnings of the 19th century, in order to give an impression of the biggest problems at that time. Among various other veterinary subjects, essays dealt with scab in sheep, cattle plague, milk fever and glanders. Because of the insufficient scientific knowledge concerning the causes of infections and internal diseases hardly any practical solutions were sent in. However, the fact that the attempt was made shows how badly improvements in agriculture, cattle-breeding and veterinary medicine were needed. A need which only after more than 50 years after the opening of the first veterinary school in France resulted in the founding of the State Veterinary School in Utrecht in 1821.
Ernest Arthur Kendall: his life in peace and war.	Ernest Arthur Kendall (1876-1938), whose father founded the first veterinary school in Australia, qualified as a veterinary surgeon, as did three of his brothers. He was commissioned in the Australian Army Veterinary Corps and fought with distinction in both the Boer War and World War I. He established an Australian Veterinary Hospital near Calais, France, in 1917. The Purple Cross Society of Victoria paid for the fit-out and necessary material for the running of the hospital, which treated 24,300 animals before it closed in 1919. In that year, Colonel Kendall resumed his career in the Department of Agriculture Victoria, where he was appointed Chief Veterinary Officer in 1926 and Chairman of the Milk Board in 1934. He worked toward a pure milk supply, enabled the establishment of a laboratory to test milk samples, and looked forward to a well-planned campaign for the eradication of bovine tuberculosis.
150th anniversary of veterinary education and the veterinary profession in North America: part 2, 1940-1970.	This article is the second in a series of four to be published in the Journal of Veterinary Medical Education (JVME). These articles are abridged versions of six lectures that make up an elective course on the history of the veterinary profession in North America offered at Cornell University's College of Veterinary Medicine to students in all four years of the program. The course is built in part on a series of biographies and interviews captured in a collection at http://www.vet.cornell.edu/legacy, and complemented by a growing collection of historical and public policy blogs at http://www.veterinarylegacy.blogsite.com. This article describes the development of the veterinary profession from 1940 to 1970, with particular emphasis on World War II, the Land Grant colleges established in the mid- and late 1940s, women in veterinary medicine (1910-1970), and African-Americans (ca. 1890-1945). Though the article is somewhat Cornell-centric because the lectures were presented to Cornell students at their home institution, many events are representative of the broader American experience.
Taking a history on veterinary education.	In this article, another in the series marking 125 years of Veterinary Record, Andrew Gardiner and Susan Rhind consider some common themes in the history of veterinary education. They look at how veterinary teaching and education have evolved over time and discuss what may happen in years to come. 
Our educational institution has 50 years in the service of veterinary medicine]	The paper gives an overview of the history of the school of vet. med. technicians at the School of Veterinary medicine Hannover.
Prof. Dr. Richard Völker and the School for Veterinary Medicine Technical Assistants in Hannover]	The first assistant professions in medicine technical field were established in the last third of the 19th century. Basic units primarily were private institutions which aimed to set up training facilities and money-making opportunities for unmarried women of the middle and upper classes. In correlation with the progress in microbiology and X-ray technics from about 1900 in veterinary medicine the demand for technical assistants raised up too. Since 1929 in some institutes and clinics of the Hannover Veterinary School unpaid trainees were instructed. Accordingly to this the "School for the Training of Technical Assistants in Veterinary Institutes" was founded on the initiative and under control of Richard Völker in summer 1937. In this paper a preliminary report is given which deals with the main aspects of the development of the profession, the school's foundation history and the special role of its founder Völker. A doctoral thesis to this subject is submitted to the veterinary authorities.
