Death education: a survey of U.S. colleges and schools of pharmacy.	This survey was conducted to assess the present state of death education available to pharmacy students at both the BS and PharmD degree levels. Eighty-five percent of the colleges and schools of pharmacy located in the United States provided information concerning: (i) attitudes toward teaching death education; (ii) present offerings; (iii) academic background of instructors and departments responsible for death education programs; and (iv) course information. It was determined that 38 colleges of pharmacy offered some form of death education in their curricula during 1985. However, only 12 schools offered a full semester course, and many schools offered death education as an elective through a discipline other than pharmacy. As a result, a majority of graduates are still leaving pharmacy schools without any instruction in death education. The implications of these and other findings are discussed.
Current status of drug information centers.	The current status of drug information centers in the United States and trends that have developed over the past two decades were studied. In February 1990, questionnaires were sent to 218 pharmacist-operated drug information centers nationwide. The centers were identified through previously published directories and the ASHP electronic bulletin board PharmNet. The survey consisted of 182 questions designed to gather updated data on each drug information center. Responses to each question were coded individually, and data were analyzed by using a statistical analysis program. One hundred fifty-four drug information centers responded; of these, 130 provided usable responses. The results showed that the number of drug information centers has increased compared with earlier surveys. Also, the centers handle substantially larger workloads. Few drug information centers indicate a fee-for-service system. Computer use and online searching by drug information centers have increased. Most of the centers participate in the formal education of pharmacy students. Increases in the number of drug information centers and in their workload substantiate the growing importance of these centers to the health-care professions.
Pharmaceutical terms reflecting the change in practice in Japan.	The implementation of Iyaku Bungyo, the changed regulations for drug distribution and the proposed change of pharmacy education from a four-year program to a six-year program are rapidly changing the practice of pharmacy. However, pharmacists' activities still remain at the level of simple dispensing and selling of drugs. Also, the terms that describe the essence of pharmacists' activities, such as services in patient care areas are still unclear. In order to solve and improve the problem of terminology for pharmacists' activities the use of terms related to pharmacists' services were examined in historical context. It was found that the terms "Rinsho yakugaku" and "Iryo yakugaku" have been used as having a similar meaning. Further, the term "Iryo yakugaku" was used to denote the comprehensive scope of pharmacists' services including "Rinsho yakugaku". It was verified that "Rinsho yakugaku" is a valid translation for "clinical pharmacy". "Iryo yakugaku" has a more comprehensive translation than "pharmaceutical care", therefore, it appears that "Iryo yakugaku" is a suitable translation for "pharmaceutical services". Hence, we proposed "Iryo yakugaku" as the English translation for "pharmaceutical services" and "Chiryo yakugaku" as the Japanese translation for "pharmaceutical care". There is a need, however for further clarification and definition of pharmacists' activities.
An introductory pharmacy practice experience emphasizing student-administered vaccinations.	To introduce a requirement for second-professional year (P2) and third-professional year (P3) students to administer vaccinations to adults in community pharmacy-based immunization clinics.
Mental health and psychiatric pharmacy instruction in US colleges and schools of pharmacy.	To describe the extent of psychiatric pharmacy instruction in US pharmacy curricula, including course and faculty characteristics and mental health topics taught in clinical therapeutics-based courses.
Analysis of students, achievement rate and contents of assessment for objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) attempted at the faculty of pharmaceutical sciences, Showa University]	The aim of this study was to analyze students, achievement rate and contents of assessment judged by instructors in objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) attempted at the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Science, Showa University. The OSCE was carried out for fourth-year students in May 28, 2005. In this trial, there were two stations, i.e., counting/measurement dispensing and subsequent audit of dispensed drugs, and 218 students and 31 instructors (as evaluators) participated. We developed a checklist to test students attitudes and skills (two stages) and overall evaluation (five stages). Each student was evaluated by two instructors. Examination time was 8 minutes for drug dispensing, and 4 minutes for the audit of dispensed drug. After the OSCE trial, we analyzed validity of examination time, contents of assessment, and differences in scores between different evaluators. More than half of the students could not finish the examination within the limit of time for dispensing the liquid and cream and audit for dispensed powder. The number of items that 60% of the students achieved was 48 (82.8%). Moreover, 20% of the assessment items did not agree among the evaluators with a disagreement rate of 20% or more. Thus, we distinguished between the items based on the extent of disagreement rates. It was suggested that most of the students achieved such a level to actually perform clinical training in pharmacies. From these results, it is necessary to set up an assignment to finish the within the time limit to extent the time limit depending upon examination contents, to standardize the evaluation to increase the agreement rate among evaluators, and to more clearly identify assessment criteria.
School of pharmacy-based medication therapy management program: development and initial experience.	To describe a school of pharmacy-community pharmacy collaborative model for medication therapy management (MTM) service and training.
Collaboration between a college of pharmacy and a for-profit health system at an academic medical center.	The genesis and growth of a successful 14-year partnership between the University of Oklahoma (OU) college of pharmacy and the OU Medical Center (OUMC) department of pharmacy are described.
Attitudes of matriculating first-year pharmacy students toward a mandatory, random drug-screening program.	To determine the attitudes of incoming pharmacy students toward a mandatory, random urine drug-screening program.
Reflecting on interprofessional education in the design of space and place: lessons from Namibia.	Education at the University of Namibia, School of Medicine and School of Pharmacy relies on a community-centred curriculum. The aim is to nurture "7-star" doctors and pharmacists that will address the current social and health needs within the country. A sound understanding of the interplay between learning and the learning environment is said to improve interprofessional educational activities. This relationship is dependent on constrictive alignment of not only the aspects of pedagogy, but also that of educational leadership in context of the current and social health needs. In this report, we reflect on the interprofessional-learning environment that was created out of necessity within a Namibian context.
Education in pediatrics in US colleges and schools of pharmacy.	To determine the extent to which pediatrics is taught at US doctor of pharmacy (PharmD) programs and to characterize what is being taught and how.
Factors associated with students' perception of preceptor excellence.	To identify factors associated with preceptor excellence as rated by student pharmacists and to assess the correlation of excellent ratings with years as pharmacist, specialty certification, and faculty appointment status.
Measuring achievement goal orientations of pharmacy students.	To measure the achievement goal orientations of pharmacy students attending a 3-year (accelerated) doctor of pharmacy (PharmD) program.
Using debate to teach pharmacy students about ethical issues.	To create, implement, and evaluate debate as a method of teaching pharmacy undergraduate students about ethical issues.
Practice experiences at a single institutional practice site to improve advanced pharmacy practice examination performance.	To determine whether sequential assignment of students to the same facility for institutional practice experiences improves their advanced pharmacy practice experience (APPE) examination scores.
Integrating science and practice in pharmacy curricula.	An integrated curriculum is one where the summation of different academic disciplines forms a coherent whole and, importantly, where the relationships between the different disciplines have been carefully and strategically considered when forming the composite. Within pharmacy curriculum integration is important in order to produce graduates who have the capacity to apply their knowledge to a range of complex problems where available information is often incomplete. This paper discusses the development of an integrated curriculum in which students are presented with an organized, logical sequence of material, but still challenged to make their own integrations and develop as integrative thinkers. An evidence-based model upon which an interdisciplinary undergraduate pharmacy curriculum can be built is presented. 
Second report on the organization of pharmacology in Great Britain.	1 A questionnaire was sent to 150 departments employing pharmacologists including all those academic departments teaching pharmacology, in Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and all industrial firms and research institutes engaged in pharmacological (27) and toxicological (38) work. All questionnaires were completed. The returns refer to the situation on 1st January 1972.2 There were 1,104 pharmacologists, of whom 652 were established staff, 383 were research staff and students, and 29 visiting workers. Of the staff in established posts, 192 were in medical schools, 81 in other university departments, 75 in other non-university departments and 28 in toxicology departments. Forty pharmacologists were established in other research units.3 Since 1964, 11 B.Sc. (Pharmacology) courses have been started. In 1971-72 there were 69 students in the final year of all B.Sc. Pharmacology courses. By 1974-75, 134 students are expected in the final year of these courses.4 Of 413 students specializing in pharmacology who graduated in 1971, 74% had taken a pharmacy qualification. Overall, 26% continued in academic courses, 11% went into industry, 56% into hospital or retail pharmacy. Only 1% were unemployed.5 Of 68 students completing postgraduate courses in pharmacology in 1971, 20% went into university teaching, 26% into industry and only 1% were unemployed. At present there are 260 students in postgraduate training in pharmacology departments.6 During 1970 and 1971 appointments exceeded losses in all sections giving an overall annual gain of 58.5. The total demand was estimated at 73 per year over this time. The predicted size of pharmacology departments in 1974-75 could lead to a maximum annual demand of 95 per year for these next three years.7 Up to January 1972, the supply of, and demand for pharmacologists seems to have been near balance from the unemployment and vacancy rates reported.However, in 1971, the supply of pharmacologists exceeded significantly the identifiable demand from pharmacology and toxicology departments. Thus there was a considerable demand from unknown employers. In the future there will be a considerable increase in the supply of specialist pharmacologists. We cannot predict if this will be balanced by demand in the absence of information about the growth in demand from the unknown employers.8 Taking the number of professors as an index of academic status, pharmacology has improved its standing, especially in the non-medical school departments. Now there are 40 professors in 51 departments compared with 25 in 42 departments in 1964.9 Overall, the composition of departments has not changed much since 1964. Academic departments still draw on each other for their pharmacologists whereas industrial departments draw equally from other industrial departments and academic departments. The total proportion of medically qualified pharmacologists has fallen to 14% (from 25% in 1964) and these pharmacologists are still concentrated heavily in medical school departments. In industrial departments, only 3% have a medical qualification.10From the replies of 94 out of 410 recent graduates specializing in pharmacology, the courses are in general interesting and effective. However, both students and employers considered that not enough statistics and mathematics as applied to pharmacology were taught. Of the respondents, 84% also wanted more teaching on the clinical use of drugs.
