A tuberculosis screening and chemoprophylaxis project in children from a high risk population in Edmonton, Alberta.	Current recommendations for tuberculosis control are to screen high risk populations and provide chemoprophylaxis for those infected. In Edmonton, Alberta, one strategy has been to identify and provide TB skin tests to newly arrived immigrant school age children from TB endemic areas. The difficulty has been in identifying these children in the school population. This article describes a process tried in 1993-94 to find a better approach and to determine the outcome of a concentrated effort at screening and follow-up of this population. Using this method, 1,146 students were TB skin tested using 5tu PPD: 15% showed significant reactions (10 mm), 89% were offered chemoprophylaxis, and 68% of those offered (84% of those accepting) completed 9 months of chemoprophylaxis. The success of this process was dependent on the dedicated follow-up provided by the specialty public health clinic devoted to the prevention and treatment of tuberculosis.
Mental health services for children in the first two years after the 1995 Oklahoma City terrorist bombing.	Nineteen infants and children were killed in the 1995 terrorist bombing in Oklahoma City, and many were injured. More than 200 children lost one or both parents. These casualties focused attention on children in the disaster response efforts. This paper describes the development and implementation of a school-based mental health program that provided accessible services to children affected by the bombing, with an emphasis on normalization. A clinical needs assessment of all children in the Oklahoma City public school system was carried out, and clinicians provided emergency and crisis services, counseling, and support groups.
Youth action strategies in violence prevention.	To describe a school-based youth-driven violence prevention project. The objectives were to provide opportunities for students to plan health-related activities, develop their awareness of the importance of violence prevention, and identify ways to cope with and influence their environment with respect to this issue.
The school setting: an opportunity for the implementation of dietary guidelines.	Nutrition, physical activity and health related promotion programmes in schools have developed into a mature field of research over the past decades. A number of success factors have been identified and evidence-based interventions have been performed. However, the school setting as an arena for evidence-based health promotion programmes, is still not used to its full potential. Schools provide an excellent arena for reaching large segments of the population, such as young people, school staff, families and the surrounding community. There is a need for an overview regarding the current status of nutrition, physical activity, related health as well as support structures in the EU member states. Based upon such an analysis, a consensus report should be written, pointing out the major problems at hand. Self-assessment tools for national as well as for school level should be produced, in order to guide changes, but also to include an element of continuous assessment of change, for evaluation purposes.
American Academy of Pediatrics. The role of the school nurse in providing school health services. Committee on School Health.	The school nurse has a crucial role in the provision of school health services. This statement describes the school nurse as a member of the school health services team and its relation to children with special health care needs. Recommendations for the professional preparation and education of school nurses also are provided.
Evaluation of a program to promote hepatitis B vaccination among adolescents in a school environment of Central Montreal]	We developed a hepatitis B vaccination promotion project aimed at Montreal-area adolescents. A student leaflet, teacher's guide and classroom poster were developed. Our objectives were to have 25% of teachers give a course on hepatitis B and 25% of students begin vaccination against hepatitis B.
Interactions among program, placement, and services in educational planning for students with disabilities.	Although IDEA and its corresponding federal regulations provide an underlying philosophy and procedures to help design education for students with disabilities, the law remains open to widely varying interpretations. One aspect of IDEA, namely, the relationship among the program, placement, and services for a student with disabilities when planning an appropriate education is discussed here. An analysis of how these three interrelated components can be applied in different sequences highlights drawbacks to some sequence variations. A conceptualization of how program, placement, and services can be approached in an interactive manner, rather than a strict linear one, is offered within a framework that is consistent with IDEA, its corresponding regulations, and educational logic.
New Moves: a school-based obesity prevention program for adolescent girls.	This study tests the feasibility of an innovative school-based program for obesity prevention among adolescent girls. New Moves was implemented as a multicomponent, girls-only, high-school physical education class.
Children with a tracheostomy: experience of their carers in school.	Tracheostomies in children are increasingly performed for chronic medical conditions. There are no published studies reporting the experience of children with a tracheostomy in school. Such information would be valuable in planning the care and education of these children. The aims of this study were to identify those children with a tracheostomy in Nottinghamshire schools and determine the support they were receiving.
Questionnaire for teachers changes the outcome of school entrance medical examinations.	To evaluate the impact of a teachers' questionnaire on the outcome of school entrance medical examinations (SEMs).
Participatory Action Research: creating an effective prevention curriculum for adolescents in the Southwestern US.	Existing research confirms a need to seek strategies that combine the strengths of researchers and community to create effective prevention curricula for youth. This article describes how components of Participatory Action Research (PAR) methodology were used to create the keepin' it REAL Drug Resistance Strategies (DRS) curriculum designed for a diverse Southwestern US youth population. School community participants were involved in multiple stages of creation and implementation. The research team developed a systematic process for creating lessons built upon strong theoretical foundations, while teachers and students contributed lesson modifications and evaluations, suggestions for supplemental activities, and the actual production of instructional videos. While the experimental design and some methodological constraints served to limit school community involvement in some phases of the DRS project, this article describes how PAR methodology ensured that researchers collaborated with school community members to create this promising drug prevention curriculum. Results of the REAL experiment, discussion of the use of this methodology, implications and recommendations for future research also are included.
Assessing the long-term effects of the Safe Dates program and a booster in preventing and reducing adolescent dating violence victimization and perpetration.	This study determined 4-year postintervention effects of Safe Dates on dating violence, booster effects, and moderators of the program effects.
Current and future challenges in school-based prevention: the researcher perspective.	During the next decade we will see broad dissemination of a growing number of empirically validated school-based prevention programs. The processes of effectiveness research, broad program diffusion, and program integration at the school and community level will become a central focus of research activity. The paper presents six future directions for research in the field of school-based prevention and health promotion. The directions include developing new programs and models, developing standards and accountability systems related to school success, moving from efficacy to effectiveness research, understanding factors influencing program integration, broad dissemination of programs and policies, and the sustainability of programs, policies, and community partnerships. These future directions are driven by three significant research-to-service challenges faced both by practitioners and researchers that involve systems integration across developmental stages, levels of care, and institutional structures.
Contextualism and the development of effective prevention practices.	Widespread and effective implementation of research-based prevention practices will be facilitated by the explicit adoption of a functional contextualist framework for prevention research. Such a framework has as its central goal predicting and influencing behavior and cultural practices. Research within this framework is evaluated in terms of its ability to contribute to that goal. As a result, it contributes directly to the ultimate goals of prevention science-affecting the incidence and prevalence of problems in populations. The approach contrasts with the mechanist framework, which is implicit in much behavioral science research. The mechanist framework has as its truth criterion the predictive verification of models of the interrelationships among variables. Such models can-but need not-identify manipulable variables that can be exploited to affect problems of interest. Such models require the inclusion of multiple cases for testing and this requirement may impede the tendency of scientists to work with a single school or community. Functional contextualism is suited to the study of the individual case. It provides a framework within which researchers can more readily collaborate with practitioners in the development and further evaluation of practices within the settings where practitioners will ultimately use those practices.
PROSPER community-university partnership model for public education systems: capacity-building for evidence-based, competence-building prevention.	This paper presents a model to guide capacity-building in state public education systems for delivery of evidence-based family and youth interventions-interventions that are designed to bolster youth competencies, learning, and positive development overall. Central to this effort is a linking capacity agents framework that builds upon longstanding state public education infrastructures, and a partnership model called PROSPER or PROmoting School-community-university Partnerships to Enhance Resilience. The paper presents an overview of the evolving partnership model and summarizes positive results of its implementation over a 12-year period in an ongoing project.
Reasons for teachers' adaptation of substance use prevention curricula in schools with non-white student populations.	In this study we investigate reasons why teachers adapt substance use prevention curricula in the nation's middle schools. We hypothesize that these reasons will be most salient in schools with racially and ethnically diverse student populations, for whom teachers may believe it appropriate to tailor their curricula. The study sample comprised a nationally representative sample of lead substance use prevention teachers in the nation's middle schools. Respondents answered questions concerning eight student problems or needs that constituted reasons why they might adapt their prevention lessons. Controlling for a variety of school and teacher characteristics, we found that teachers in high minority schools were more likely to adapt curricula in response to three of the eight characteristics presented: youth violence, limited English proficiency, and various racial/ethnic or cultural groups. We suggest that curriculum developers make a systematic effort to understand how teachers are adapting their curricula in high minority schools and incorporate these modifications, if found effective, into their curricula.
School-based health education programs can be maintained over time: results from the CATCH Institutionalization study.	Developing and evaluating interventions to influence students' opportunities for healthful choices has been a focus of school-based health promotion research; however, few studies have examined the sustainability of these programs and viability of continued organizational implementation.
Follow-up study of a school-based scalds prevention programme.	This paper describes the follow-up evaluation of a school-based scalds prevention programme designed to teach children about scalds hazards and encourage safe family practices. It involved two classroom sessions and a homework exercise that targeted five safety practices. The programme was taught to 28 classes in 14 schools in Waitakere City, New Zealand by Public Health Nurses (PHNs). Children (n = 116) aged 10-11 years from three of the schools in ethnically diverse, low/middle-income areas were assessed for their knowledge of scalds hazards 1 year after the programme. They recalled a mean of 7.46 out of 10 hazards, which was almost equivalent to children in an earlier evaluation who recalled 7.62 hazards immediately after the teaching. Altogether, 65-79% of children reported that each of the four safety items provided were at least temporarily used as intended, with 29-55% reporting that they were still in use 1 year later. Interviews with children's parents (n = 18) indicated that the majority of their hot water practices were not optimally safe prior to the programme and that many had adopted the suggested practices. While the PHNs were positive about the programme, they suggested teachers could deliver it as part of the school curriculum.
Reshaping a school health nursing service.	Faced with staff shortages and a recognition that the core health surveillance system in schools could not be sustained, school nurses in one area decided to pool their skills and target surveillance to children with identified needs. Following completion of a pilot programme in October 2002, the school health nursing service has been restructured and now operates in teams who manage a corporate caseload. The core programme includes a targeted health surveillance programme, a programme of health promotion and a referral system that were modelled on the pilot project.
Using technology to promote self-efficacy for healthy eating in adolescents.	To test the effects of a classroom and World Wide Web (WWW) educational intervention on self-efficacy (SE) for healthy eating (HE) and to examine the relationship of the theoretical concepts in a hypothesized model of eating behavior in adolescents.
Creating health-promoting schools in China with a focus on nutrition.	This pilot project in Zhejiang Province, China, aimed at improving the nutrition and health status of students, school personnel and parents, and developing a model project for nutrition interventions for the development of health-promoting schools (HPS) in China. Three primary and three secondary schools participated. Interventions included establishing school-based working groups, nutrition training for school staff, distribution of materials on nutrition, nutrition education for students, student competitions, school-wide health promotion efforts and outreach to families and communities. Results of a pre- and post-intervention survey one and a half years apart showed improvements in nutrition knowledge, attitudes and behavior among all target groups. Primary school students at the pilot schools made the greatest knowledge gains in the areas of Chinese dietary guidelines (increased from 49.2 to 78.0%, p < 0.01) and adequate dietary principles (increased from 42.9 to 68.0%, p < 0.01). Scores of secondary school students who reported liking school lunches rose at pilot schools from 17.9 to 45.2% (p < 0.01). School staff at control schools who reported taking breakfast declined from 81.4 to 66.6% (p < 0.01), while staff who reported taking lunch at school increased in pilot schools from 87.5% at baseline to 93.9% (p < 0.01). The largest increases in nutrition knowledge among all target groups occurred among parents and guardians. At the pilot schools parents increased their knowledge in the areas of nutritional deficiencies (from 35.0 to 66.2%, p < 0.01) and nutrient-rich foods (from 38.8 to 66.8%, p < 0.01). Talks with target groups confirmed changes in attitudes and behavior, and school visits revealed improvements to school facilities and school health services, establishing of school policies and a positive school climate. This study suggests that nutrition can effectively serve as an entry point to establish HPS in China and that the HPS concept is feasible to improve the dietary knowledge, attitudes and behavior of students, parents and school personnel.
The health of children in foster care.	This qualitative study of school nurses describes what the nurses want to do for school children in foster care, what they are actually doing, and how the school organization affects the provision of care. The study looked at the nurses' practice through the lens of the Social Ecological Model of Health, identified interventions using the Minnesota Public Health Intervention Model, and analyzed the school organization using the Bolman-Deal Model (Bolman & Deal, 1997). A purposive sample of nurses was chosen to participate in interviews, and observations of their work and a survey on the frequency of their interventions was implemented. Interviews were analyzed using a phenomenological approach. Four themes derived from the data included structural barriers to client access, nonrecognition of the broad determinants of health, isolationism, and lack of political power. School nurses are aware of foster children's increased health care needs, yet increased services are not provided as a result of a lack of organizational support.
Treating sudden cardiac arrest in a school setting.	Sudden cardiac arrest occurs when the heart's electrical system fires very rapidly and in an uncoordinated manner, rendering the heart incapable of pumping blood through the circulatory system. The heart begins to tremble uncontrollably, like a quivering bowl of jelly. The victim becomes unconscious, stops breathing, and typically has no pulse or signs of circulation. Unless this condition is reversed, death follows in a matter of minutes. Defibrillation ("shocking a patient") is the only effective means of re-setting the heart's normal electrical impulses.
Augmentation of special-needs services and information to students and teachers "ASSIST"--a telehealth innovation providing school-based medical interventions.	An innovative school-based telehealth technology was introduced in Hawaii with the purposes of: (1) evaluating students for medical/developmental conditions with educational implications, (2) providing a professionally-monitored Internet-based system of learning/development, and (3) delivering medically-based physical and occupational therapy at the students school. Electronically recorded satisfaction surveys from parents, teachers, and providers revealed significant improvement in all three areas.
An outbreak of meningococcal disease in a secondary school--implications for public health practice.	This report describes briefly the management of three cases of meningococcal disease which all occurred within one week at a secondary school on the Central Coast of New South Wales in late winter 2003. The Central Coast health area has a population of approximately 300,000. Between 10 and 15 cases of meningococcal disease are notified to the Central Coast Public Health Unit each year. The three cases all presented to Gosford Hospital, Cases 1 and 2, both in Year 9, on Thursday 14 August 2003 and Case 3 in Year 8 on Friday 15 August 2003.
The "Safer Choices" intervention: its impact on the sexual behaviors of different subgroups of high school students.	To measure the relative impact of a school-based human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-, sexually transmitted disease (STD)-, and pregnancy-prevention intervention on sexual risk-taking behaviors of different subgroups of students.
Qualitative evaluation of a school-based support group for adolescents with an addicted parent.	Adolescents with an addicted parent are at risk for physical, emotional, and social problems. They are particularly at risk for developing substance abuse. School-based support groups have been suggested as a beneficial treatment and prevention strategy.
Promoting positive adult functioning through social development intervention in childhood: long-term effects from the Seattle Social Development Project.	To examine the long-term effects of the Seattle Social Development Project intervention in promoting positive adult functioning and preventing mental health problems, crime, and substance use (including tobacco, alcohol, and other drugs) at 21 years of age.
The impact of an organ donation registration information program for high school students in the Netherlands.	In 1998, a new organ donor registration system was implemented in the Netherlands to increase the number of potential donors. A high school education program was developed to prepare adolescents to make an informed decision about organ donation. A post-test only randomised controlled trial was conducted in 39 high schools including 2868 students. Students within schools were randomly allocated to either attend the organ donation education program or not. The impact of the program on students' intention to register their organ donation preference (and determinants thereof) were analysed using multivariate multileveling modelling (MlwiN). The results show that students who were exposed to the education program had more favourable registration intentions (B = .40), were more often willing to be donors (OR = 1.45), and had greater knowledge about (B = 3.84) and more positive social outcome expectations (B = .09) and self-efficacy regarding organ donation registration (B=.22). Lastly, they experienced significantly less negative outcome expectations related to organ donation registration (B = -.15). Students' evaluation of the school-based education program was favourable. The present organ donation registration program proved to be effective in changing determinants of organ donation registration, and a large-scale implementation in the Dutch high school curriculum is planned.
Data integrity: backup.	School nurses and health office staff have an ethical and legal obligation to protect the integrity of electronic student health records. Various sources, both accidental and malicious, can threaten student health data. School nurses must employ regular and reliable methods to back up student health data.
Adolescent pregnancy loss. A school-based program.	A school-based program is proposed for meeting the needs of teenagers who experience a pregnancy loss or infant death. School nurses are well situated in the school setting to provide support to the bereaved teenage mother. The pregnancy is considered in the context of developmental task achievement, and the effects thereon of loss of the pregnancy or infant death. Adolescent grief reactions are discussed, with an emphasis on the tasks of grief.
Integrating occupational safety and health information into vocational and technical education and other workforce preparation programs.	The high rates of injury among young workers are a pressing public health issue, especially given the demand of the job market for new workers. Young and new workers experience the highest rates of occupational injuries of any age group. Incorporating occupational safety and health (OSH) information into the more than 20 000 vocational and other workforce preparation programs in the United States might provide a mechanism for reducing work-related injuries and illnesses among young and new workers. We assessed the status of including OSH information or training in workforce preparation programs and found there is an inconsistent emphasis on OSH information.
Effectiveness of school programs in preventing childhood obesity: a multilevel comparison.	In light of the alarming increase in childhood obesity and lack of evidence for the effectiveness of school programs, we studied the effects of school programs in regard to preventing excess body weight.
Exemptions to school immunization requirements: the role of school-level requirements, policies, and procedures.	Our goal was to determine whether school-level variability in implementation of immunization requirements is associated with the likelihood of a child having received an exemption to school immunization requirements.
Burn camps and community aspects of burn care.	Burn injuries can have a profound effect on the personality development and emotional stability of children, particularly those children who had preexisting pathologic conditions at the time of injury. Integration of an altered sense of self and reentry into the social arena are two challenges that children with burn injuries must face. Creative psychosocial services are of critical importance in providing support to children as they meet these challenges. School reentry programs and burn camps are presented as two services that are currently provided to facilitate the adaptation and reentry process for these children.
Addressing the needs of lesbian, gay, and bisexual youth: the origins of PROJECT 10 and school-based intervention.	This research chronicles the formation and expansion of a counseling and educational program for gay, lesbian, and bisexual youth called PROJECT 10 at Fairfax High School. A model program was tested during the academic year 1985-1986, and is now being implemented throughout the Los Angeles Unified School District and in other schools across the nation. Fifty self-identified homosexual students were interviewed in order to clarify the needs of lesbian, gay, and bisexual teenagers in relation to their school experiences. Additionally, a questionnaire study of 342 respondents from the general student population was undertaken in order to chart the beliefs and attitudinal changes of those teenagers who experienced school-based educational programs that portrayed homosexuality and bisexuality as variations on a continuum of human sexual expression and emotional attachment. Suggestions for further research are discussed.
Preparing preschool programs to care for children with HIV infection.	As a consequence of the increasing incidence and prevalence of HIV infection, preschools are seeking help in developing and implementing nondiscriminatory policies. Pediatric nurse practitioners are in an ideal position to provide leadership in adapting preschool programs to meet the special health care needs of these children.
Building a health/education partnership: the role of school-based health centers.	School-based health centers have helped low-income young people gain access to clinical care despite many barriers these individuals face. These health centers also play a key role in supporting health promoting behaviors among students and creating healthier student environments.
Learning healthy living--health management in schools. Health promotion in schools with particular consideration of socially disadvantaged students]	"Learning to Live Healthy" is a cooperation project between the Central Association of Health Insurers and the Health Associations of Lower Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt and Rhineland-Palatinate. Our goal is to develop a healthy environment for all teachers and students in the "School Organization". Our focus lies -- more strongly than with earlier projects for school health promotion -- in the improvement of the health of teachers and non-teaching personnel. Not until their resources are strengthened and overwork/overload broken down, can resources be directed to health promotion for and with students, and health risks connected with social inequalities can be diminished. The project operates with the setting approach, and uses the principles of Workplace Health Management- Integration, Participation and Project Management. The project utilizes the instruments of project organization to jump-start the process of change in the School Organization, systematically, through goal-oriented action and sustainable development, thus improving the quality of education.
Subtainable health promotion via organisational development--a model project for teachers in professional training schools]	The goal of this project is the development, implementation and evaluation of a concept designed for sustainable health promotion among occupational and trade school teachers. We assume that for sustainable health promotion -- along with a behavioral prevention program -- a change is necessary in the structure, as well as, the working and communication processes within schools. The realization of early teacher participation and self regulated cooperative groups initiates comprehensive and goal-oriented developmental processes in the project schools. The organizational development process was accomplished in the following way: At the beginning we conducted a diagnosis of school-specific and individual health risks and the resources available to the project schools. The results were reported for both the individual and for the teacher group. This was intended to clarify the potential for improvement and, thus, strengthen the teachers' motivation toward processes of change. Following the diagnosis, the teachers chose areas of stress-related strain and then worked in groups to develop and implement behaviour and working condition-oriented intervention strategies for health promotion. The diagnosis results confirm the necessity of school-specific health promotion: the schools demonstrate very different demand and resource profiles. Furthermore, is has become evident that the central success factor for health promotion in schools is the teachers' willingness for change. The individual and group reports of the diagnosis results seem to have made clear how essential individual and organisational changes are.
Impact analysis and mediation of outcomes: the Going Places program.	The purpose of the study was to evaluate the impact of the Going Places Program and mediation of treatment effects. Seven middle schools were randomized to intervention or comparison conditions and students (n=1,320) in two successive cohorts provided five waves of data from sixth through eighth grade. The Going Places Program included classroom curriculum, parent education, and school environment components. Latent growth curve analyses demonstrated significant treatment group effects on outcome expectancies, friends who smoke, and smoking. Friends who smoke mediated the program effect on adolescents' smoking progression. The protective effect of the Going Places Program on smoking progression was due in part to the prevention of increases in friends who smoke.
Prevention of the epidemic increase in child risk of overweight in low-income schools: the El Paso coordinated approach to child health.	To assess the impact on children's health of translating an evidence-based national intervention trial (Child and Adolescent Trial for Cardiovascular Health [CATCH]) to low-income elementary schools with primarily Hispanic students.
The impact of a school-based obesity prevention trial on disordered weight-control behaviors in early adolescent girls.	To assess the impact of an obesity prevention intervention on use of self-induced vomiting/laxatives (purging) and diet pills to control weight in girls in early adolescence.
Prevention of cigarette smoking through mass media intervention and school programs.	In this study we tested the ability of mass media interventions to enhance the efficacy of school cigarette smoking prevention programs.
School health in rural Nepal: why and how?	School health has been regarded as a high priority intervention in developing countries from the perspective of donor organizations. This paper aims to show why school health is important from the community perspective as well, and how school health programs should be implemented based on a case study by the School and Community Health Project (SCHP) in Nepal. SCHP conducted a needs assessment using a participatory rural appraisal in 28 rural communities (mean household number: 51; mean population: 352) in rural Nepal. As a result, SCHP found 70% of the target communities regarded schools as the most important institutions in their communities. Then, SCHP initiated two school health programs to meet their needs, a Supportive Healthy Environment Program and Child Initiative Program. The community members welcomed them, and all the schools successfully built toilets and water supply systems, and initiated child club activities, even though the school teachers' commitment was limited.
Negative pregnancy tests in urban adolescents: an important and often missed opportunity for clinicians.	This study describes a project to determine the incidence of negative pregnancy tests performed in an urban community for teens 18-years old and younger. Pregnancy test logs were kept at a variety of clinical agencies for a three-month period. Five hundred and fifty urine pregnancy tests were performed; 77% were negative. In our community a large number of teens are accessing health care services for pregnancy tests, the vast majority of which are negative and represent an important opportunity to prevent unintended pregnancies in a population of adolescent girls.
School-based clinics: the Baltimore experience.	Adolescents are at risk for a wide range of problems necessitating creative approaches to the delivery of health care. Baltimore City has responded to this challenge by opening seven school-based clinics (SBCs) that provide comprehensive health and social services to adolescents. This article summarizes the history of SBCs, the range of services, and the role of community involvement. A major focus of this article is the independent role of the nurse practitioner as clinical expert and educator.
A bilingual "neighborhood club": intervening with children exposed to urban violence.	Mental health practitioners have offered relatively little in response to the pervasive community violence faced by many children living in impoverished neighborhoods. The "neighborhood club" is a school-based, short-term, support group designed to assist children with the psychological impact of exposure to community violence. Ten "neighborhood clubs" were conducted in two public elementary schools in Detroit, Michigan. This paper reviews the implementation of a bilingual "neighborhood club," undertaken to better serve the Spanish-speaking Latino students in a school community. We discuss many of the rewards and challenges of conducting a bilingual, multicultural support group for children and conclude that a bilingual support group provides all children with a model that validates ethnic and cultural diversity while also building empathic bonds based on mutually-reinforcing, common experiences.
Diffusion of the D.A.R.E and syringe exchange programs.	We examined the diffusion of the D.A.R.E program to reduce use of illicit drugs among school-aged children and youths and the diffusion of syringe exchange programs to reduce HIV transmission among injection drug users. The D.A.R.E program was diffused widely in the United States despite a lack of evidence for its effectiveness; there has been limited diffusion of syringe exchange in the United States, despite extensive scientific evidence for its effectiveness. Multiple possible associations between diffusion and evidence of effectiveness exist, from widespread diffusion without evidence of effectiveness to limited diffusion with strong evidence of effectiveness. The decision theory concepts of framing and loss aversion may be useful for further research on the diffusion of public health innovations.
Beyond deworming: the promotion of school-health-based interventions by Japan.	Deworming bestows a variety of health and socioeconomic benefits and has been embraced by developing countries. To extend the beneficial impact of deworming, the Asian Centre of International Parasite Control (ACIPAC) project has carried out activities to link deworming with health-promoting school programs in the Greater Mekong Subregion (Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam). ACIPAC has also conducted an integrated school-health-based program, including deworming and malaria education, under the umbrella of the health-promoting schools initiative. Implementing "beyond-deworming" efforts is now a practical challenge in the subregion.
Improving young children's social and emotional competence: a randomized trial of the preschool "PATHS" curriculum.	This paper reports the results from a randomized clinical trial evaluating an adaptation of the Promoting Alternative Thinking Strategies curriculum (PATHS) for preschool-age children in Head Start. PATHS is a universal, teacher-taught social-emotional curriculum that is designed to improve children's social competence and reduce problem behavior. Twenty classrooms in two Pennsylvania communities participated in the study. Teachers in the 10 intervention classrooms implemented weekly lessons and extension activities across a 9-month period. Child assessments and teacher and parent reports of child behavior assessments were collected at the beginning and end of the school year. Analysis of covariance was used to control for baseline differences between the groups and pretest scores on each of the outcome measures. The results suggest that after exposure to PATHS, intervention children had higher emotion knowledge skills and were rated by parents and teachers as more socially competent compared to peers. Further, teachers rated intervention children as less socially withdrawn at the end of the school year compared to controls.
Integrating public health policy, practice, evaluation, surveillance, and research: the school health action planning and evaluation system.	The Canadian Cancer Society and the National Cancer Institute of Canada have charged their Centre for Behavioral Research and Program Evaluation with contributing to the development of the country's systemic capacity to link research, policy, and practice related to population-level interventions. Local data collection and feedback systems are integral to this capacity. Canada's School Health Action Planning and Evaluation System (SHAPES) allows data to be collected from all of a school's students, and these data are used to produce computer-generated school "health profiles." SHAPES is being used for intervention planning, evaluation, surveillance, and research across Canada. Strong demand and multipartner investment suggest that SHAPES is adding value in all of these domains. Such systems can contribute substantially to evidence-informed public health practice, public engagement, participatory action research, and relevant, timely population intervention research.
Health education in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya: assessment of future needs.	The aim of this study was to determine priority health issues, target groups and education media for future health education programmes in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. A questionnaire was addressed to 2 groups: health officials (n=60) and the general public (n=300). In their lists of health issues to focus on, 7 were the same although prioritization differed. Children and youth were considered the most important target groups and the school setting the most appropriate medium for them. Broadcast media were acknowledged as valuable for health education for the general public. We recommend systematic consultation across official and lay groups as a preliminary requisite for health education initiatives.
School-based programs: lessons learned from CATCH, Planet Health, and Not-On-Tobacco.	Establishing healthy habits in youth can help prevent many chronic health problems later in life that are attributable to unhealthy eating, sedentary lifestyle, and overweight. For this reason, many public health professionals are interested in working with school systems to reach children in school settings. However, a lack of familiarity with how schools operate can be a substantial impediment to developing effective partnerships with schools. We describe lessons learned from three successful school health promotion programs that were developed and disseminated through collaborations between public health professionals, academic institutions, and school personnel. The programs include two focused on physical activity and good nutrition for elementary and middle school children--Coordinated Approach to Child Health (CATCH) and Planet Health--and one focused on smoking cessation among adolescents--Not-On-Tobacco (N-O-T). Important features of these school health programs include 1) identification of staff and resources required for program implementation and dissemination; 2) involvement of stakeholders (e.g., teachers, students, other school personnel, parents, nonprofit organizations, professional organizations) during all phases of program development and dissemination; 3) planning for dissemination of programs early in the development and testing process; and 4) rigorous evaluation of interventions to determine their effectiveness. The authors provide advice based on lessons learned from these programs to those who wish to work with young people in schools.
Belonging and connection to school in resettlement: young refugees, school belonging, and psychosocial adjustment.	Schools are one of the first and most influential service systems for young refugees. There is a burgeoning interest in developing school-based refugee mental health services, in part to reduce stigma and increase treatment access for this population. Despite the relevance of gaining a better understanding of how refugee students experience schools in resettlement and how this relates to psychosocial adjustment, belonging and connection to school have not been previously investigated among a population of resettled refugees. This study examines school belonging and psychosocial adjustment among a sample of 76 Somali adolescents resettled in the United States. A greater sense of school belonging was associated with lower depression and higher self-efficacy, regardless of the level of past exposure to adversities. Notably, more than one-quarter of the variation in self-efficacy was explained uniquely by a sense of school belonging. School belonging was not significantly associated with posttraumatic stress symptom severity and did not moderate the effect of exposure to adversities on psychological adjustment. These results suggest that investigating ways of improving school experiences would be particularly useful in the effort towards continued development of school-based mental health programs for young refugees.
NEEMA: a school-based diabetes risk prevention program designed for African-American children.	To conduct formative assessment and preliminary biological impact of a school-based diabetes risk prevention program for African-American children during a 14-week study.
Safe and healthy school environments.	Children spend much of their waking time at school. Many of the factors in the school environment can be improved with careful planning and allocation of resources. The pediatrician, as a child advocate, is in an excellent position to influence the allocation of school resources to improve the educational outcome. This article summarizes some of the current understanding gathered from applying an environmental health approach to the school setting and provides a basis for the interested physician and other child advocate to learn more and get involved.
Health education in secondary school--things about programme prepared myself]	In 90-ties of the XX century there were in Poland favourable to implement tasks concerning health education in school. Thanks to the health promotion movement there was introduced by a legislator in 1999 a duty to implement health education in primary and secondary schools. In prepared presentation I show you teacher's and pupil's action results concerning health promotion in two secondary schools (Warsaw, Pomiechówek) on the basis of prepared myself health education programme. The programme was implemented in above mentioned schools in 2003-2006 within prepared pedagogical experiment. At my disposal there are materials documenting health education programme implementation and half-year reports prepared by teachers implementing programme. These materials helped me to prepare this presentation.
Accomplishment of the educational path "pro-healthy education" in the opinion of teachers of different subjects]	The purpose of the presented report is analysis of opinions of teachers of different subjects on supplementing knowledge, discussed topics, methods applied in health education and its environmental factors. In the years 2004-2006, a diagnostic survey was carried out among 289 teachers of different subjects employed in secondary and post-secondary schools in slaskie (Silesian), lubelskie (Lublin) and podkarpackie (sub-Carpathian) voivodeships /regions/. Analysis covered answers to questions concerning the atmosphere predominating in school when realizing health education and ways of carrying out the pro-health path. The obtained results show irregularities that take place in many schools: no coordinator of health education, unsatisfactory cooperation between school pedagogue and parents, as well as adverse conditions for carrying out recreational and sports classes. When listing institutions that might provide support realization of pro-health education, the respondents did not mention higher education institutions, regional disease control centres or methodological centres. The most frequently applied methods in realisation of discussion on health problems at school are verbal methods. Majority of teachers declare their willingness to participate in different forms of instruction in the field of health education.
The level of physical abilities of pupils practising sport in pupils sport club and their attitude to health]	For centuries health has been a value and today is still making an influence on better functioning societies. Health is a subject of research in many scientific disciplines, and has a great influence on theory of physical education taking into consideration researches which are targeting at holding and increasing health, which has become today a thing that is not "given" once in a life-time. Those problems are a subject of health pedagogy researches. Health education is an activity aiming at creating pro-health attitudes. It is generally acknowledged that sport activity of children and teenagers improves their health condition, as well as better understanding and acceptance of fair play idea. The test of pro-health attitude as well as fair play attitude that occurs among young players practising handball in UKS (Pupils Sport Clubs) confirms research presumptions. It is worrying though that there are bad habits and attitudes to health and worse achievements in trials of physical ability among older pupils practising sport for a long time. The good thing is that pupils of a first class of secondary school (gymnasium) training for a long time have better attitude to fair play.
Physical activity and responsibility for health among pupils of 6 grade of primary school]	The aim of our research was to describe the dimension of health control in the life of primary school pupils with various amount of sport hours. The problem was examined in 3 categories: internal control, powerful others and chance. The standardized scale HLC (Health Locus of Control) was introduced.
Understanding organization structures of the college, university, high school, clinical, and professional settings.	Athletes participate at many different levels of competition--from amateur to professional, from backyard sandlot to Yankee Stadium. There are as many different organized structures involved in providing medical care to athletes as there are types of athletes themselves. Although the organizational structures involved in providing medical care for a little league team in a small town are different from those involved in providing care for a professional baseball team, the mission is the same-caring for athletes. This is the central theme of this article. Though there are different organizational structures, there are more common threads than differences in the mission of those who provide medical care for athletes at any level.
The role of school medicine doctors in health education in Croatia--past, present and future.	Croatia never had a separate vocation (occupation) of a health educator. Health education is one of the main tasks in the long tradition of preventive work of doctors-school medicine specialists. Additionally, in the school curriculum in the Republic of Croatia the health-educational contents are integrated into various subjects, and are conducted by teachers. However, there are requests to introduce a new subject into schools called Health Education. We asked physicians of school medicine their opinion on the introduction of this new subject. 30% of the physicians were dissatisfied with the current condition, 10% were satisfied, while there were no very satisfied school medicine doctors. They believe that health education goals are oriented solely to passing on knowledge (facts), while efforts are not done to change habits and attitudes of young people. They recognize themselves as persons mostly involved in health education in schools. Half of the school medicine doctors believe that the school curriculum should contain both a separate subject as well as integration of health education into other subjects. Before introducing any changes into healthcare or education system, it is necessary to examine the attitudes of students and parents, to direct the changes towards the promotion of the cooperation between the healthcare system, education, civil society, school and community where investing into the health of young people is done through comprehensive and holistic programmes.
Managing deliberate self-harm in young people: an evaluation of a training program developed for school welfare staff using a longitudinal research design.	Although deliberate self-harm is prevalent among young people, many who engage in deliberate self-harm receive sub-optimal care. Although schools are a well placed setting to support young people who engage in self-harm there are no specific training packages designed to assist school welfare staff to support these young people.The current study aimed to design, deliver and evaluate a training course specifically for school staff.
No change in weight-based teasing when school-based obesity policies are implemented.	To examine rates of weight-based teasing before initiation of school-based childhood obesity prevention policies (Arkansas Act 1220 of 2003) and during the 2 years following policy implementation, as well as demographic factors related to weight-based teasing.
Diffusion of school-based prevention programs in two urban districts: adaptations, rationales, and suggestions for change.	The diffusion of school-based preventive interventions involves the balancing of high-fidelity implementation of empirically-supported programs with flexibility to permit local stakeholders to target the specific needs of their youth. There has been little systematic research that directly seeks to integrate research- and community-driven approaches to diffusion. The present study provides a primarily qualitative investigation of the initial roll-out of two empirically-supported substance and violence prevention programs in two urban school districts that serve a high proportion of low-income, ethnic minority youth. The predominant ethnic group in most of our study schools was Asian American, followed by smaller numbers of Latinos, African Americans, and European Americans. We examined the adaptations made by experienced health teachers as they implemented the programs, the elicitation of suggested adaptations to the curricula from student and teacher stakeholders, and the evaluation of the consistency of these suggested adaptations with the core components of the programs. Data sources include extensive classroom observations of curricula delivery and interviews with students, teachers, and program developers. All health teachers made adaptations, primarily with respect to instructional format, integration of real-life experiences into the curriculum, and supplementation with additional resources; pedagogical and class management issues were cited as the rationale for these changes. Students and teachers were equally likely to propose adaptations that met with the program developers' approval with respect to program theory and implementation logistics. Tensions between teaching practice and prevention science-as well as implications for future research and practice in school-based prevention-are considered.
The Project Towards No Drug Abuse (TND) dissemination trial: implementation fidelity and immediate outcomes.	One of the important research issues in the emerging area of research on dissemination of prevention programs relates to the type and extent of training needed by program providers to prepare them to implement effective programs with fidelity. The present paper describes the immediate outcomes of a dissemination and implementation trial of Project Toward No Drug Abuse, an evidence-based prevention program for high school students. A total of 65 high schools in 14 school districts across the USA were recruited and randomly assigned to one of three experimental conditions: comprehensive implementation support for teachers, regular workshop training only, or standard care control. The comprehensive intervention was comprised of on-site coaching, web-based support, and technical assistance, in addition to the regular workshop. Students (n = 2,983) completed self-report surveys before and immediately after program implementation. Fidelity of implementation was assessed with a classroom observation procedure that focused on program process. Results indicated that relative to the controls, both intervention conditions produced effects on hypothesized program mediators, including greater gains in program-related knowledge; greater reductions in cigarette, marijuana and hard drug use intentions; and more positive changes in drug-related beliefs. There were stronger effects on implementation fidelity in the comprehensive, relative to the regular, training condition. However, seven of the ten immediate student outcome measures showed no significant differences between the two training conditions. The implications of these findings for dissemination research and practice are discussed.
A school-based clinic in a preschool.	Primary health care in a school-based clinic (SBC) for preschoolers is examined. Based on personal experience, a PNP describes an actual preschool SBC. The benefits of an on-site service for this age group include periodic and accurate developmental assessments and screening procedures and improved compliance with treatments and referrals. The process of establishing an SBC is presented in terms of management, funding, and resources.
School health services: a Hub of Services to children and their families.	The Corporate/Community Schools of America (C/CSA) is a not-for-profit coalition of business executives, concerned educators, and community leaders working to reform urban public education in the United States. This article reports on the C/CSA Chicago and the Hub of Services, which is a central component of the school design. The Hub of Services concept is described and compared to traditional school health program management models. Selected outcomes of the program are summarized as well as replication issues. Given the competing demands for increased school-based services and increased fiscal constraints, this unique experiment provides a school health service model that offers a solution for both of these demands.
Primary prevention of cancer. The case for comprehensive school health education.	Comprehensive school health education plays an important role in the primary prevention of cancer because so many of the health habits relating to cancer and other diseases have their onset early in life. A comprehensive health education program should begin early in life. Such education must be multifactorial from kindergarten through high school, should involve annual health screening, must be assessed annually, and is most effective when coordinated by a full-time health education teacher. Those concerned about the many problems of health behavior in our society should insist that such programs become mandatory in every state in this nation.
Editorial: Evaluation of the project P.A.T.H.S. in Hong Kong: are the findings replicable across different populations?	Existing youth enhancement programs commonly deal with isolated problems and issues in adolescent development and they are relatively short-term in nature. To promote holistic development among adolescents in Hong Kong, we launched Positive Adolescent Training through Holistic Social Programmes (P.A.T.H.S.). One unique characteristic of the Project P.A.T.H.S. is systematic evaluation of the program using various evaluation strategies. In this special issue, comprising 8 research articles, we have applied the principle of replication to re-evaluate the effectiveness of the Programs, including subjective outcome evaluation based on program participants and implementers, evaluation based on secondary data evaluation, and objective outcome evaluation. Generally speaking, the findings are consistent with those reported previously, thus providing evidence for the replication of related research findings. These replicated findings generally suggest that different stakeholders have positive perceptions of the program, workers and benefits of the program and there is evidence supporting the effectiveness of the program.
Objective outcome evaluation of the project P.A.T.H.S. in Hong Kong: findings based on individual growth curve models.	The Tier 1 Program of the Project P.A.T.H.S. (Positive Adolescent Training through Holistic Social Programmes) is a curricular-based program that attempts to promote positive youth development in Hong Kong. In the second year of the Full Implementation Phase, 20 experimental schools (n = 2,784 students) and 23 control schools (n = 3,401 students) participated in a randomized group trial. Analyses based on linear mixed models via SPSS showed that participants in the experimental schools displayed better positive youth development than did participants in the control schools based on different indicators derived from the Chinese Positive Youth Development Scale. Differences between experimental and control participants were also found when students who joined the Tier 1 Program and perceived the program to be beneficial were employed as participants of the experimental schools.
Subjective outcome evaluation of a positive youth development program in Hong Kong: profiles and correlates.	Secondary school students (n = 33,867 from 213 secondary schools) responded to a subjective outcome evaluation form to assess their views of the program, workers (teachers and/or social workers), and perceived effectiveness of the program. Results showed that high proportions of the respondents had positive perceptions of the program and the instructors, and more than four-fifths of the respondents regarded the program as helpful to them. While schools admitting students with different academic abilities and hours did not differ in the subjective outcome evaluation ratings, subjective evaluation ratings for workers were highest, followed by ratings for the program and perceived effectiveness. The present study replicates the previously reported findings and provides additional support for the effectiveness of the Tier 1 Program of the Project P.A.T.H.S. (Positive Adolescent Training through Holistic Social Programmes) in Hong Kong.
Subjective outcome evaluation of the project P.A.T.H.S: descriptive profiles and correlates.	A total of 196 schools participated in the Tier 1 Program (Secondary 2 curriculum) of the Project P.A.T.H.S. (Positive Adolescent Training through Holistic Social Programmes) in Hong Kong. After the completion of the program, 1,178 instructors completed a subjective outcome evaluation form in order to assess their views of the program, instructors, and perceived effectiveness of the program. Results showed that high proportions of the instructors had positive perceptions of the program (range: 76.79-93.69%) and their own performance (range: 83.20-98.60%), and most of the respondents (range: 78.45-92.43%) regarded the program as helpful to the program participants. While the ratings in some items in the present findings were relatively better than those in the Experimental Implementation Phase, they were similar to those based on the Secondary 1 curriculum. Consistent with previous studies, the ratings on the program, instructors, and perceived effectiveness were significantly correlated.
Subjective outcome evaluation based on secondary data analyses: the project P.A.T.H.S. in Hong Kong.	The intent of this study was to evaluate the program effectiveness of the Project P.A.T.H.S. (Positive Adolescent Training through Holistic Social Programmes) (Secondary 1 Curriculum) by analyzing 207 school-based program reports, in which program implementers were invited to write down five conclusions based on an integration of the subjective outcome evaluation data collected from the program participants and program implementers. Secondary data analyses were conducted and 1,855 meaningful units were extracted from 1,035 "aggregated" conclusions. Among them, about 27 and 18% were related to perceptions of the program and implementers, respectively, and most of them were positive in nature. About one-third was related to perceived effectiveness of the program, and most of them referred to enhancement of students' development in societal, familial, interpersonal, and personal aspects. However, difficulties encountered during program implementation (3.34%) and recommendations for improvement (18.11%) were also reported. The present study replicated the findings reported in previous studies and suggests that the Tier 1 Program of the Project P.A.T.H.S. is beneficial to the development of the program participants.
Secondary data analyses of conclusions drawn by the program implementers of a positive youth development program in Hong Kong.	The Tier 2 Program of the Project P.A.T.H.S. (Positive Adolescent Training through Holistic Social Programmes) is designed for adolescents with significant psychosocial needs, and its various programs are designed and implemented by social workers (program implementers) for specific student groups in different schools. Using subjective outcome evaluation data collected from the program participants (Form C) at 207 schools, the program implementers were asked to aggregate data and write down five conclusions (n = 1,035) in their evaluation reports. The conclusions stated in the evaluation reports were further analyzed via secondary data analyses in this study. Results showed that the participants regarded the Tier 2 Program as a success, and was effective in enhancing self-understanding, interpersonal skills, and self-management. They liked the experiential learning approach and activities that are novel, interesting, diversified, adventure-based, and outdoor in nature. They also liked instructors who were friendly, supportive, well-prepared, and able to bring challenges and give positive recognition. Most of the difficulties encountered in running the programs were related to time constraints, clashes with other activities, and motivation of participants. Consistent with the previous evaluation findings, the present study suggests that the Tier 2 Program was well received by the participants and that it was beneficial to the development of the program participants.
Subjective outcome evaluation findings: factors related to the perceived effectiveness of the tier 2 program of the project P.A.T.H.S.	After completion of the Tier 2 Program of the Project P.A.T.H.S. (Positive Adolescent Training through Holistic Social Programmes), 8,489 participants in 196 schools responded to the Subjective Outcome Evaluation Form (Form C) to assess their views of the program, program workers, and perceived effectiveness of the program. Four major program elements were identified, including programs based on the adventure-based counseling approach (n = 48), programs concentrated on volunteer training and services (n = 44), programs with both the adventure-based counseling approach and volunteer training activities (n = 63), and other programs with different foci (n = 41). Descriptive statistics showed that the respondents had positive perceptions of the program, workers, and benefits of the program. Perceived qualities of the program and the program workers were positively associated with perceived effectiveness of the program. Multiple regression analysis revealed that perceived qualities of the program, but not the program workers, predicted perceived effectiveness of the program. The theoretical and practical implications of the findings are discussed.
Positive youth development programs targeting students with greater psychosocial needs: a replication.	The Tier 2 Program of the Project P.A.T.H.S. (Positive Adolescent Training through Holistic Social Programmes) targets adolescents with greater psychosocial needs, and the related programs were designed and implemented by school social workers. After completion of the Tier 2 Program (Secondary 1 Level), 9,931 participants in 212 schools responded to the Subjective Outcome Evaluation Form (Form C) in order to assess their views of the program, workers, and perceived effectiveness of the program. Based on the consolidated reports submitted by the agencies to the funding body, the research team aggregated the consolidated data to form a "reconstructed" overall profile on the perceptions of the program participants. Four major types of program were identified, including programs based on the adventure-based counseling approach (n = 58), programs concentrating on volunteer training and services (n = 31), programs offering both adventure-based counseling and volunteer training activities (n = 91), and other programs with different foci (n = 32). Results showed that high proportions of the respondents had positive perceptions of the programs and the workers, and over four-fifths of the respondents regarded the program as helpful to them. The present study provides support for the effectiveness of the Tier 2 Program of the Project P.A.T.H.S. in Hong Kong for the Full Implementation Phase.
When there is no school nurse--are teachers prepared for students with peanut allergies?	Peanut allergies account for the majority of severe food-related allergic reactions and affect 1% of Americans today. Therefore, food allergies among students are one of the most common healthcare conditions that must be addressed in the school setting. With the lack of full-time school nurses, teachers feel overwhelmed when the responsibility is placed upon them to care for these students. This article will discuss the prevalence of peanut allergies in schools and acknowledge the difficulties faced by teachers when dealing with a student with a peanut allergy. It is imperative that teachers receive a comprehensive educational program on peanut allergies when no school nurse is available. Ultimately, we want teachers and school staff responsible for student supervision to recognize quickly what symptoms might indicate anaphylaxis and know how and when to get help. This knowledge would increase their awareness of their own role in preventing allergy-related deaths.
Childhood sexual learning and sex education in schools.	This article reviews the multiple sources of childhood sexual learning, including intrapersonal constructs and the role of external factors such as the family, peers, culture, and the media. A comprehensive definition of sexuality and sexual health is described. Data on the recent national survey of school-based sex education programs by the Alan Guttmacher Institute is reviewed. Building on this information, a justification for sexuality education within the context of comprehensive health education is addressed. Implications for nursing practice are discussed to include formalized linkages between the education and health professions within the domains of policy development, research, advocacy, program development, and clinical services.
Adolescent health care and school-based clinics.	School-based adolescent health centers are emerging as a promising means of dealing comprehensively with the health needs, risks, and behaviors of the community's youth. This article reports on the initial experience of The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation in working jointly with communities, schools, and local medical institutions (hospitals, health centers, health departments) in establishing adolescent health clinics of this kind. The Foundation has helped to fund approximately one quarter of all such clinics nationwide.
Evaluation of an intervention program to increase immunization compliance among school children.	State immunization laws necessitate compliance for students enrolling in a public or private school system. In support of state laws, school nurses expend hours to achieve immunization compliance with school-age children. For the purpose of creating a more efficient system, researchers implemented an educational and incentive program in local elementary schools to increase tetanus, diphtheria, and acellular pertussis (Tdap) booster compliance rates. Students were instructed in regard to their immune systems, immunizations, and where to obtain immunizations. In addition, compliant students were entered into a drawing for an iPod Shuffle or a RipStick. In 2009, the compliance rate expanded from 4% to 57% during a 4-week intervention program. Notably, the Tdap immunization compliance rate in the previous year (2008) was 54%. Researchers concluded that the intervention did not improve compliance rates significantly.
Connecting with frequent adolescent visitors to the school nurse through the use of intentional interviewing.	Nurses as accessible, helping adults within schools have daily opportunities to reach adolescents with unmet mental health needs. Understanding the relationship between frequent clinic visits or somatic complaints as a sign of underlying problems, which may be organic or psychoemotional in origin, requires the unique skill set of the school nurse. The welcoming school nurse, who cares for students with acceptance and emotional availability, nurtures the development of trust and meaningful personal connection. It is through this relationship that effective care and case finding occurs. Attachment to the school nurse as a responsive adult fosters a sense of school connectedness, which is associated with academic success. Intentional Interviewing is a person-centered, evidence-based approach that can be used by school nurses in this important work.
Happy air®, a successful school-based asthma educational and interventional program for primary school children.	To investigate whether an active partnership between schools, parents, and pediatricians can improve the management of asthma and quality of life of children with asthma.
Tying together research and practice: using ROPE for successful partnerships in school mental health.	There is solid evidence for strategies and programs that, if implemented with fidelity in schools, will enhance the mental health of children and youth. These practices are, however, inconsistently applied and rarely evaluated programmatically in every day practice. In recent years, implementation variables that influence uptake have received attention. An emerging area of interest is the role that research partnerships might play in narrowing the gap between science and practice. Drawing on the literature and practice examples, collaborators from the United States and Canada explore the role of partnerships in bringing the worlds of research and practice closer into alignment.
The effects of self-management education for school-age children on asthma morbidity: a systematic review.	The effects of asthma self-management education for school-age children on number of school days missed, emergency department visits and hospital admissions were evaluated through a systematic review of the published research. A total of 9 studies on asthma education programs that were conducted in schools by school nurses and health educators and targeted children 5-18 years of age were reviewed. The studies were all published between 1998 and 2009. The school-based asthma education programs delivered interventions in multiple sessions over short consecutive time periods of about a month to a month and a half. Follow-up data were collected in varying intervals from 1 month to 1 year postinterventions. Results indicated that a decrease in school days missed can be expected from such programs. The data regarding emergency department visits and hospital admissions was less definitive.
The integration of counseling and nursing services into schools: a comparative review.	The purpose of this comparative review was to examine the legislative evolution of school guidance and school nursing over the past century, in hopes of identifying reasons why guidance counselors have been more successful in compliance to recommended ratios than school nurses. A literature review was conducted including CINAHL, MEDLINE, ERIC and other EBSCO databases. The results from this review indicate school guidance programs have been included in more federal legislation, mandating funding, education and certification requirements, which gives counselors a uniformly recognizable credential understood by educators. An extensive effort to develop a national model of school guidance has assisted counselors to uniformly show how they impact student academic success. School nurses can learn how to further integrate the school nursing role into education from the example of guidance counselors.
A collaborative approach to diabetes management: the choice made for Colorado schools.	Students with diabetes deserve a school nurse who can effectively manage the disease. Tensions between the school and families sometimes emerge when a child with diabetes goes to school. To resolve these tensions in Colorado, stakeholders collaborated to implement a statewide program to meet the needs of students with diabetes. Colorado school nursing leadership partnered with the National Association of School Nurses to adapt components of the Managing and Preventing Diabetes and Weight Gain Program (MAP), funded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The Healthy Learner Model for Chronic Condition Management, integral to MAP, provided guidance for the Colorado Collaborative to design the Diabetes Resource Nurse Program. The program supports the practicing school nurse, and facilitates collaboration between the family, school, and health care provider. This article describes how stakeholders in Colorado chose to collaborate when faced with rising tensions over how to best manage students with diabetes.
Medico-prophylactic foundations of the safety of information and communication technologies used in educational institutions]	The problems pertaining to the safety of information and communication technologies used in the spheres of education and leisure activities of children and adolescents are discussed. The relevant risk factors are identified. Results of physiological and hygienic studies for substantiating regulations of continuous work with a personal computer are presented taking into account the children's age and hygienic requirements to electronic teaching aids.
Health-promoting school initiative in Ashram schools of Wardha district.	We studied the effect of a health-promoting school-based intervention for disadvantaged children in the residential Ashram schools of rural Wardha, Maharashtra.
Developing a collaboration with the Houston independent school district: testing the generalizability of a partnership model.	Moving evidence-based practices into real-world settings is a high priority for education and public health. This paper describes the development of a partnership among the Houston Independent School District, the American Institutes of Research, and the Houston Federation of Teachers to support research on and program sustainability for the Good Behavior Game, a team-based classroom behavior management strategy that has shown positive impact in randomized field trials. The conceptual framework guiding partnership development is presented, followed by an application of the framework in Houston. Lessons learned and implications for the next stage of research and practice are then discussed.
Effects of coping-skills training in low-income urban African-American adolescents with asthma.	Minority teens with asthma are at particular risk for this life-threatening disease due to increased morbidity and mortality rates in addition to the normal challenges of adolescence.
Photovoice: an opportunity and challenge for students' genuine participation.	It has been highlighted that youth empowerment and participation are important principles for school health promotion. Despite this fact, children and youth are rarely given instruments to participate or to influence their situations and the environments in their schools. Photovoice is a method to increased empowerment and participation. Originally it was created as a community action research method based on Freire's critical pedagogy and feminist theory. The purpose of this study was to explore challenges and opportunities for applying photovoice in a school setting to support genuine participation. Together with teachers and students in an upper secondary school in Östersund's municipality in the north of Sweden, the photovoice method was field tested and modified to a classroom situation. The teachers and the students were interviewed about their experiences with the method. The results were interpreted by content analysis and showed that the teachers' capability to be facilitators and the students' possibility to make a difference for the school or the municipality were the most important factors to succeed with photovoice. The conclusions were that photovoice challenges schools and society to have a better structure for genuine participation if youth participation is seen as valuable. 
Recall, relevance and application of an in-school sexual and reproductive health intervention 7-9 years later: perspectives of rural Tanzanian young people.	Many adolescent sexual and reproductive health (ASRH) interventions have improved knowledge and reduced reported sexual risk behaviours, but found no impact on HIV. We explored potential reasons for this in 23 in-depth interviews, conducted 7-9 years after exposure to ASRH intervention. We discussed participants' memories and views of the relevance of the in-school intervention, and their subsequent ability to apply what they had learned. While most participants had favourable memories of the intervention, few recalled specific details. Most reported that the intervention had been relevant, although few reported being able to apply the teachings. Men found it easier to apply lessons about condoms than women. Inability to apply the intervention teachings was often linked to cultural norms around fertility and/or gender power relations. ASRH interventions should address structural factors such as the quality of parenting and explicitly link interventions to young peoples' future aspiration. 
Children, parents, and pets exercising together (CPET) randomised controlled trial: study rationale, design, and methods.	Objectively measured physical activity is low in British children, and declines as childhood progresses. Observational studies suggest that dog-walking might be a useful approach to physical activity promotion in children and adults, but there are no published public health interventions based on dog-walking with children. The Children, Parents, and Pets Exercising Together Study aims to develop and evaluate a theory driven, generalisable, family-based, dog walking intervention for 9-11 year olds.
Working toward a sustainable system of asthma care: development of the School-Based Preventive Asthma Care Technology (SB-PACT) trial.	We previously conducted the School-Based Asthma Therapy trial to improve adherence to national asthma guidelines for urban children through directly observed administration of preventive asthma medications in school. The trial successfully improved outcomes among these children; however, several factors limit its potential for dissemination. To enhance sustainability, we subsequently developed a new model of care using web-based guides for efficient communications and integration within school and community systems. This article describes the development of the School-Based Preventive Asthma Care Technology (SB-PACT) trial.
Mental health and the school environment:  secondary schools, promotion and pathways to care.	Addressing youth mental health in secondary schools has received greater attention globally in the past decade. It is essential that educators, mental health experts, researchers, and other related service providers understand the most current research findings to inform policy making, and identify priority areas for the development of future interventions and research strategies. This review describes literature during the past year on school-based mental health programs addressing mental health promotion, prevention, early identification and intervention/treatment.
Implementation of an evidence-based hand hygiene program in elementary schools in Ghana, as part of a City-to-City partnership between Ottawa public health and KEEA health directorate.	Ottawa Public Health in partnership with health staff from the municipality of KEEA (Komenda, Edina, Eguafo, Abrem) in Ghana engaged in a city-to-city partnership to adapt, implement, and evaluate an evidence-based hand hygiene public health initiative in elementary schools in Ghana. All 4 participating schools gained the necessary resources to carry out proper hand hygiene practice, and hand hygiene practice improved. Furthermore, pupils were more likely to wash hands after using the toilets and teachers were better equipped to be good role models. Providing resources to schools was key to the success of the implementation. This partnership gave health and education workers in Ghana the tools, knowledge, and confidence to implement a simple, evidence-based, hand hygiene program. One other remarkable outcome is that school children were the initiators of a behavior change in their community.
School nurses and athletic trainers team up on emergency planning.	The broad topic of emergency planning has fast become an issue of top priority nationally for schools and organizations in both the public and private sectors in all areas related to disaster planning and preparedness. This article focuses on the development and implementation of a district-wide Emergency Action Plan specific to emergency readiness in the school sport setting. The critical, collaborative roles of the school nurse and the certified athletic trainer can determine the ultimate outcome and degree of success when dealing with potentially life-threatening, health-related events. These health emergencies may occur during the school day or during after-school athletic and other activities.
Recovery and resiliency after a disaster in educational settings: part 1.	Educational institutions are microcosms of our society. On a typical day across our country, approximately 20% of our population is in some type of educational setting. Often times, schools are the largest gathering place in a community, which leads to an increased likelihood that emergencies or crisis situations will occur in schools. Increasingly, there is awareness that disasters in schools are more than just a school responsibility. A school disaster impacts a community, and a community disaster impacts the school. The entire community--education, emergency management, and first responders--are involved in responding to a disaster. Resiliency, the ability to recover from or adjust to misfortune of disasters, describes the collective goal of the all-hazards approach that is employed during a crisis incident.
Recovery and resiliency after a disaster in educational settings: part 2--a roundtable reflection.	Many natural disasters, several of which severely impacted school communities around the globe, have occurred in the first few years of the 21st century. School nurses embraced many roles in assisting with disaster recovery. In keeping with this issue's theme of "All Hands on Deck--Recovery and Resiliency After a Disaster," we invited schools to share stories and, in so doing, promote activities that will strengthen disaster response in all school settings. We acknowledge that their recovery is ongoing.
Family-school interaction in solving the problem of pupils' health preservation]	The paper covers the most methodological priority forms of a family-school interaction, which are necessary for effective collaboration in molding children's health. It gives the results of a study conducted at experimental schools, which showed the level of performance of heath-preserving, tutorial, and educational functions of a family.
Hygienic evaluation of educational conditions and health status in junior pupils from rural schools]	Clinical and epidemiological examinations were made in rural junior (8-10-year-old) schoolchildren from the Vyazma District, Smolensk Region. The clinical findings were compared with the results of evaluation of sanitary-and-hygienic school welfare (SGW), made by the regional branch of the Russian Inspectorate for the Protection of Consumer Rights and Human Welfare, and with those of a sociological survey of school directors and teachers. In the rural schools referred to as Group III morbidity, the incidence of diseases was ascertained to be significantly higher and their patterns had its peculiarities as compared to good hygienic and social educational institutions. There was evidence that the worse schooling conditions, the more children suffered from chronic diseases, chronic mental diseases and physical malformations in particular.
Harnessing the power of student health data: Selecting, using, and implementing electronic school health documentation systems.	School nurses manage an immense amount of student health information, making electronic documentation systems essential to provide effective care for students. This article describes the elements of and rationale for using an electronic documentation system, the use of standardized nursing languages, and strategies for successfully implementing an electronic documentation system.
Engaging vulnerable adolescents in a pregnancy prevention program: perspectives of Prime Time staff.	Evaluating interventions for reducing unintended adolescent pregnancy is necessary to ensure quality and efficacy. The purpose of this study was to examine core case management practices and processes for engaging high-risk girls in Prime Time, an intensive multi-component intervention from the perspectives of intervention program staff.
School-based survey participation: oral health and BMI survey of Ohio third graders.	During the 2009-2010 school year, the Ohio Department of Health conducted a statewide oral health and body mass index (BMI) screening survey among 3rd grade children. This marked the fifth school-based survey regarding the oral health of Ohio children since 1987. At 50 %, the participation rate of the 2009-2010 oral health and BMI survey was at the lowest level ever experienced. This study aimed to identify the factors associated with participation rates in a school-based survey. A stratified, random sample of 377 schools was drawn from the list of 1,742 Ohio public elementary schools with third grade students. All third grade children in the sampled schools with parent or guardian consent received an oral health screening and height/weight measurement by trained health professionals. Participation rates at the school level were then combined with data on school characteristics and survey implementation. Predictors of school form return, participation, and refusal rates were assessed by generalized linear modeling (GLM). High student mobility and larger school size were associated with lower form return (p = 0.000 and p = 0.001, respectively) and lower participation rates (p = 0.000 and p = 0.005, respectively). Surveying in the fall or spring (as opposed to winter) significantly decreased form return (p = 0.001 and p = 0.016, respectively) and participation rates (p = 0.008 and p = 0.002, respectively), while being surveyed by internal staff (versus external screeners) significantly increased form return (p = 0.003) and participation rates (p = 0.001). Efforts to increase participation should focus more on schools with higher student mobility and larger size. Additionally, participation could be improved by using internal staff and surveying during winter. 
Changes in physical activity levels, lesson context, and teacher interaction during physical education in culturally and linguistically diverse Australian schools.	Recent data show that only 15% of Australian adolescents participate in adequate amounts of physical activity (PA) and those students from Asian and Middle-Eastern backgrounds in Grades 6-12 are significantly less active than their English-speaking background peers. Schools have recently been recognised as the most widely used and cost-effective setting for promoting PA among youth and one domain within schools where PA can occur regularly for all youth, regardless of cultural background or socio-economic status, is during physical education (PE).
Smoking prevention in school students: positive effects of a hospital-based intervention.	Adolescents have smoked less in recent years, but 11.7% of 12-to-17-year-olds were still smokers in 2011. The prevalence of smoking has also remained high among 18-to-25-year-olds (36.8%). An intervention program called "Students in the Hospital" was developed in which the health aspects of smoking and its individual and societal consequences were presented in an interactive informational event. In this study, we determine the efficacy of the program.
Adolescent suicide prevention in a school setting: use of a gatekeeper program.	Suicide is a major public health problem. Nationally, suicide is the third leading cause of death for adolescents. The purpose of this quality improvement project was to initiate and evaluate a gatekeeper suicide-prevention program within a local school system targeting faculty and staff without a medical or psychology background who interact regularly with middle- and high-school students. Following the implementation of this program, evaluation of increased knowledge related to adolescent suicide prevention was completed. All participants completed a pretest and posttest, and results indicate that the staff members' knowledge about identification of risk factors, behavioral responses to suicidal students, and knowledge of community resources were increased. This project highlights the need for planned and sustainable education and training for faculty and school staff who regularly interact with adolescents. Additionally, the importance of continued monitoring, training, and advocating for suicide prevention programming is noted.
Pilot evaluation of a sexual abuse prevention program for Taiwanese children.	The purpose of the current study was to develop and evaluate the efficacy of a school-based child sexual abuse prevention program for Taiwanese children. Forty-six Taiwanese children age 6 to 13 were divided into one of two groups based on their school grade and then randomly assigned to a skills-based child sexual abuse prevention program who received training immediately or a waiting-list control condition who received the training after a delay. Children's self-protection skills improved regardless of age after participation in the program. The program, however, did not successfully improve children's knowledge of sexuality and safety. Although future studies should modify the program content to better target knowledge of sexuality and safety, these results are promising for a pilot of this skills-based CSA prevention program in Taiwan.
Effectiveness of a school HIV/AIDS prevention program for Spanish adolescents.	Due to a lack of controlled studies on HIV prevention interventions among Spanish adolescents, COMPAS, a five-session behavioral intervention, was developed and tested on Spanish adolescents aged 15-18. Participants included 827 adolescents from central, east and north Spain. Six hundred and seven students (M = 15.71 years) received the intervention. The control group consisted of 220 students (M = 15.78 years). The authors used self-report measures at two points in time to assess changes in HIV knowledge, HIV attitudes, perceived norms, and condom use intentions. Compared to the control group, the intervention group demonstrated improved outcomes with regard to HIV knowledge (d = .93) and HIV attitudes (d = .37), and maintained high levels of condom use intentions. The intervention's impact was greater in females and adolescents who were not sexually active. The findings suggest that COMPAS is an acceptable and feasible school intervention for reducing sexual risk among Spanish adolescents.
Evaluating the impact of implementation factors on family-based prevention programming: methods for strengthening causal inference.	Despite growing recognition of the important role implementation plays in successful prevention efforts, relatively little work has sought to demonstrate a causal relationship between implementation factors and participant outcomes. In turn, failure to explore the implementation-to-outcome link limits our understanding of the mechanisms essential to successful programming. This gap is partially due to the inability of current methodological procedures within prevention science to account for the multitude of confounders responsible for variation in implementation factors (i.e., selection bias). The current paper illustrates how propensity and marginal structural models can be used to improve causal inferences involving implementation factors not easily randomized (e.g., participant attendance). We first present analytic steps for simultaneously evaluating the impact of multiple implementation factors on prevention program outcome. Then, we demonstrate this approach for evaluating the impact of enrollment and attendance in a family program, over and above the impact of a school-based program, within PROSPER, a large-scale real-world prevention trial. Findings illustrate the capacity of this approach to successfully account for confounders that influence enrollment and attendance, thereby more accurately representing true causal relations. For instance, after accounting for selection bias, we observed a 5% reduction in the prevalence of 11th grade underage drinking for those who chose to receive a family program and school program compared to those who received only the school program. Further, we detected a 7% reduction in underage drinking for those with high attendance in the family program.
Promoting healthy weight in primary school children through physical activity and nutrition education: a pragmatic evaluation of the CHANGE! randomised intervention study.	This pragmatic evaluation investigated the effectiveness of the Children's Health, Activity and Nutrition: Get Educated! (CHANGE!) Project, a cluster randomised intervention to promote healthy weight using an educational focus on physical activity and healthy eating.
A cluster randomized controlled trial of the be the best you can be intervention: effects on the psychological and physical well-being of school children.	The 'Be the Best You Can Be' (BtBYCB) program is a school-based intervention designed to foster positive physical, psychological, and social development via empowering young people to take ownership over their own personal development. The aim of this work is to determine the effectiveness of the BtBYCB program on (i) pupils' well-being, self-perceptions, self-esteem, aspirations, and learning strategies; and (ii) changes in modifiable health-risk behaviors (i.e., physical activity, diet, smoking, and alcohol consumption).
ARSH 8: Family life education and counseling: a school based model.	To understand the problems of school going adolescents in selected schools in the first phase and to provide class based family life education in the second phase.
Helping children gain asthma control: bundled school-based interventions.	Following the success of a community asthma quality improvement initiative to improve outcomes for children with asthma attending Cincinnati Public Schools with school-based health centers (SBHC), several members of the original initiative formed a new asthma improvement collaborative to spread the initiative's improvement work to inner-city children with asthma attending other schools with and without SBHCs. This article describes the collaborative's plan, which features a nurse practitioner using bundled, evidence-based, school-based interventions to improve asthma control for inner-city children in high poverty schools.
School-based intervention to promote healthy nutrition in Sousse, Tunisia.	Obesity among children is a major risk factor for chronic diseases. School interventions programs can represent a mean to implement healthy nutrition attitudes at early ages. Our objective was to evaluate the effects of a school intervention program to promote healthy nutrition among adolescents, in terms of knowledge, behaviors and intention.
Factors associated with parent support for condom education and availability.	Expanding condom-related knowledge and skills and reducing barriers to condom use have the potential to help reduce pregnancies and sexually transmitted infections among youth. These goals are sometimes addressed through condom education and availability (CEA) programs as part of sexuality education in school. Parents are a key constituency in efforts to implement such programs. A representative statewide sample of households with children (N = 1,093) in California was employed to examine parent support for CEA and the potential influences of demographics (gender, age, and Hispanic ethnicity), sociodemographics (education, religious affiliation, religious service attendance, and political ideology), and condom-related beliefs (belief in condom effectiveness and belief that teens who use condoms during sex are being responsible) on parent support for CEA. The parents in our sample reported a high level of support for CEA (M = 3.23 on a 4-point scale) and believing in a high level of condom effectiveness (M = 3.36 on a 4-point scale). In addition, 84% of the parents agreed that teens who use condoms during sex are being responsible. Hierarchical regression analyses showed that parents who were younger, Hispanic, with a lower educational attainment, without a religious affiliation, less religiously observant, and politically liberal were more supportive of CEA. After controlling for these demographic and sociodemographic factors, condom effectiveness and responsibility beliefs each added independently to the predictability of parent support for CEA. These findings suggest that parent education related to condom effectiveness could help increase support for school-based CEA programs. 
Short-term mediating factors of a school-based intervention to prevent youth substance use in Europe.	To investigate factors mediating the effects of a European school-based intervention (Unplugged) based on a social influence approach to youths' substance use.
School-based HIV/AIDS education is associated with reduced risky sexual behaviors and better grades with gender and race/ethnicity differences.	Although studies indicate school-based HIV/AIDS education programs effectively reduce risky behaviors, only 33 states and the District of Columbia in US mandate HIV/AIDS education. Ideally, school-based HIV/AIDS education should begin before puberty, or at the latest before first sexual intercourse. In 2011, 20% US states had fewer schools teaching HIV/AIDS prevention than during 2008; this is worrisome, especially for more vulnerable minorities. A nationally representative sample of 16 410 US high-school students participating in 2009 Youth Risk Behavior Survey was analyzed. Multiple regression models assessed the association between HIV/AIDS education and risky sexual behaviors, and academic grades. HIV/AIDS education was associated with delayed age at first sexual intercourse, reduced number of sex partners, reduced likelihood to have forced sexual intercourse and better academic grades, for sexually active male students, but not for female students. Both male and female students who had HIV/AIDS education were less likely to inject drugs, drink alcohol or use drugs before last sexual intercourse, and more likely to use condoms. Minority ethnic female students were more likely to have HIV testing. The positive effect of HIV/AIDS education and different gender and race/ethnicity effects support scaling up HIV/AIDS education and further research on the effectiveness of gender-race/ethnicity-specific HIV/AIDS curriculum. 
Implementation of The World Starts With Me, a comprehensive rights-based sex education programme in Uganda.	This article presents a process evaluation of the implementation of the sex education programme the World Starts With Me (WSWM) for secondary school students in Uganda. The purpose of this mixed-methods study was to examine factors associated with dose delivered (number of lessons implemented) and fidelity of implementation (implementation according to the manual), as well as to identify the main barriers and facilitators of implementation. Teachers' confidence in teaching WSWM was negatively associated with dose delivered. Confidence in educating and discussing sexuality issues in class was positively associated with fidelity of implementation, whereas the importance teachers attached to open sex education showed a negative association with fidelity. Main barriers for implementing WSWM were lack of time, unavailability of computers, lack of student manuals and lack of financial support and rewards. Other barriers for successful implementation were related to high turnover of staff and insufficient training and guidance of teachers. Teachers' beliefs/attitudes towards sexuality of adolescents, condom use and sex education were found to be important socio-cognitive factors intervening with full fidelity of implementation. These findings can be used to improve the intervention implementation and to better plan for large-scale dissemination of school-based sex education programmes in sub-Saharan Africa. 
Selective medical examinations on starting school.	Selective medical examination of children starting school has been operated in Cramlington for five years, and the data for the school year 1984-85 are reported. It is argued that the 'routine medical' is an outdated concept and that its abolition would allow more time for more important aspects of educational medicine including help for adolescents, disabled children in school, and deprived children who have not received basic health surveillance.
Effects of a school-based sexuality education program on peer educators: the Teen PEP model.	This study evaluated the impact of the Teen Prevention Education Program (Teen PEP), a peer-led sexuality education program designed to prevent unintended pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections (STIs) including HIV among high school students. The study design was a quasi-experimental, nonrandomized design conducted from May 2007 to May 2008. The sample consisted of 96 intervention (i.e. Teen PEP peer educators) and 61 comparison students from five high schools in New Jersey. Baseline and 12-month follow-up surveys were conducted. Summary statistics were generated and multiple regression analyses were conducted. In the primary intent-to-treat analyses, and secondary non-intent-to-treat analyses, Teen PEP peer educators (versus comparison students) reported significantly greater opportunities to practice sexual risk reduction skills and higher intentions to talk with friends, parents, and sex partners about sex and birth control, set boundaries with sex partners, and ask a partner to be tested for STIs including HIV. In addition in the secondary analysis, Teen PEP peer educators (as compared with the comparison students) had significantly higher scores on knowledge of sexual health issues and ability to refuse risky sexual situations. School-based sexuality education programs offering comprehensive training to peer educators may improve sexual risk behavior knowledge, attitudes and behaviors among high school students. 
School interventions after the Joplin tornado.	To qualitatively describe interventions by schools to meet children's needs after the May 2011 Joplin, Missouri tornado.
Some aspects of prevention activity of the teacher, directed to the improvement of the health of schoolchildren]	The problem of bottom quality of prevention work directed to the saving and strengthening the health of schoolchildren, today is a very urgent and requires a joint activity of the pedagogical and medical community. In the article there are presented data proving the feasibility of an active teacher's work on the formation of health saving space in a present school. Conspicuous is the interest of schoolchildren to the problems of a healthy lifestyle during performance of interesting preventive measures with them and as a result risk mitigation subsequently. At the same time, there was noted a low level of training teachers in various fields (including biologists) on specialized problems of the prevention of healthy lifestyles, which points to the need for introduction into the curricula of higher educational institutions additional modules on health saving, as well as conducting training courses involving health care workers as for teachers as parents.
Feasibility of providing sexually transmitted infection testing and treatment in off-campus, nonclinic settings for adolescents enrolled in a school-based research project.	This study examined the acceptability and feasibility of using a biological outcome measure to evaluate a school-based sexuality education program. Confidential field-delivered sexually transmitted infection (STI) testing by nonmedical field staff and STI treatment by medically trained field staff was assessed in off-campus and off-clinic settings for adolescents enrolled in the trial.
School-based adolescent health clinics.	School-based clinics are a relatively new concept in the United States. Presently, three clinics exist in Louisiana. The primary purpose of the school-based clinics is to provide comprehensive health care to an underserved adolescent population. Society, recognizing the complex health care needs of adolescents, has formed community-wide coalitions to support school-based clinics. To maximize visability and accessibility, the clinics have been placed in public schools. Qualified health care professionals are responsible for a clinic's operation and networking with existing community health care services. In communities with school-based clinics, private physicians have actually seen an increase in visits by adolescents and their families. High-risk adolescent behavior, such as alcohol and drug abuse, crime, smoking, unprotected sexuality, and running away has been curtailed. Problems associated with school-based clinics include vehement opposition to sex education, financing, and the sheer magnitude of the adolescents' health needs.
School health services in the United States: a view from the United Kingdom.	Despite sharing both a common heritage and a common language, differences exist between life in the United States and the United Kingdom. During spring 1988, the author, who formerly served as editor for the Health Visitor, published by the Health Visitor's Association, completed a six-week study tour of school health services in the United States. In this article, she gives her impressions from the experience, including observations regarding salary, working conditions, professional preparation, and professional recognition. She concludes by identifying several poignant questions to clarify the school nurse's role and to set priorities for the optimal use of time and expertise.
Differential effectiveness of an elementary school-based alcohol misuse prevention program.	An elementary school social skills/peer pressure resistance curriculum for the prevention of alcohol misuse was developed, implemented, and evaluated. Schools were randomly assigned to curriculum and control groups, with half of each group pretested prior to intervention and all students posttested two months, 14 months, and 26 months following intervention. Students in grade five at the beginning of the study were randomly assigned to treatment, treatment plus booster, and control conditions. Students in grade six were randomly assigned to treatment and control conditions. Three way repeated measures analyses of covariance (treatment condition by type of prior drinking experience by occasion) were conducted for each grade level on indices of "frequency/quantity of alcohol use" and "total alcohol misuse." Results indicated the intervention was effective in reducing the rate of increase of alcohol use and misuse among grade six students who entered the study with prior unsupervised as well as supervised alcohol use. After corrections for intraclass correlations on the dependent variables, the significant finding regarding the alcohol misuse variable was maintained.
Cardiovascular risk assessment in school-age children: a school and community partnership in health promotion.	There is little doubt that the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease is a pediatric problem that nursing must address. Cardiovascular health-promotion activities for children have generally used an ecologic model, providing community-based education programs in the schools. The purpose of this study was to identify changes in cardiovascular risk among sixth-grade cohorts over eight years. Four variables known to be associated with such risk--weight (obesity), pulse rate recovery index, blood pressure, and total cholesterol level--were measured on 4900 students, and changes in their prevalence were analyzed. The data presented in this paper were compiled from a screening program conducted by a local health department in partnership with a school district's health-education program. Although the school-based health-education program has been in existence for eight years, the prevalence of cardiovascular risk in sixth-grade students has not declined, suggesting the need for nurses to target the children at risk, and address more directly the motivational and affective domains in addition to cognitively focused programs.
An outbreak of tuberculosis in an Oxfordshire school.	A primary school teacher was found to have pulmonary tuberculosis. Subsequent investigations showed that nine of her 32 pupils had been infected. The problem is discussed in the light of current recommendations designed to protect schoolchildren.
Support services in the school setting: the nursing model.	The multiple components of the school-based services for the handicapped are collapsed into a support service/instructional intent matrix which gives visual expression to new dimensions in school health services. Student needs for care and coping skills are addressed by a network of professional joint-practice arrangements built into a nursing service delivery model. A challenge is made to providers for a reciprocal relationship, to improve professional preparedness and thus promote access, excellence and equity in programs for the handicapped.
Use of medical information in school planning.	Student health information is essential for determining the effect of a health problem on school performance. The sharing of information that is pertinent to a child's individual needs requires judgment on the part of both physicians and school personnel. There must be mechansims for communication and a plan for storage and retrieval of data that is both accurate and accessible. There must be a mutual desire among the professionals to establish a close relationship that is responsive to the needs of the children they serve.
The role of the pediatrician in the adolescent's school.	Whether the setting for medical care delivery is the pediatrician's office or the school itself, successful school health models call for good communication and interaction between educators and physicians. In addition, parents and peers can be influential transmitters of health education to teenagers.
Prevention research program: reconnecting at-risk youth.	This research program focuses on some of society's most profound problems: adolescent drug involvement, school failure, and suicide behaviors. The program goals address several interdisciplinary research challenges: (a) testing theory-driven preventive interventions focusing on the multifaceted etiology of adolescent drug involvement and suicide potential; (b) targeting potential school dropouts from a distinctly underserved high-risk population; and (c) integrating preventive interventions into school-based programs that utilize a multidisciplinary team of clinicians and researchers. Three sets of studies are described; they illustrate how ethnographic, experimental, and causal modeling designs and methods were intricately woven in successive theory construction and testing steps. Ethnographic and etiologic studies revealed a profile of vulnerabilities in personal, peer, family, and school contexts. Instrumentation studies led to reliable and valid process and outcome measures of key constructs. Tests of the preventive intervention demonstrated its efficacy for decreasing school deviance, drug involvement, and suicide potential among high-risk youth.
Promoting the health promoting school.	The Health of the Nation strategy commits the government to establishing a national network of health-promoting schools. Alysoun Moon describes an independent pilot project in Wandsworth, south London which is pioneering the concept in ten selected primary schools.
Primary prevention of malignant melanoma in the Stockholm Cancer Prevention Programme.	Malignant melanoma is the most rapidly increasing tumour in Sweden. Sunburns in childhood and adolescence are considered a major risk factor. The Stockholm Cancer Prevention Programme addresses strategies to establish sun awareness in the population of Stockholm county by using existing networks of standardized child health and preschool services, educational systems including schools, colleges of nursing sciences and preschool teaching (integration of sun awareness in curricula, and in a new syllabus for environmental theory), the Federation of Swedish Pharmacies, and media. Health education is designed for key persons in these organizations and the media, who in turn diffuse sun awareness via their respective organizations. The education programme only deals with primary prevention by behavioural changes in exposure to UV rays, ie excessive exposure to sun, and it is primarily intended to raise sun awareness. Experiences have shown that information diffusion was good in spite of limited staff resources.
Local measures for the reduction of drug emergency risks and drug mortality risks.	The alarming increase of drug mortality rates in Germany was followed by research projects to enlighten the causes of this increase. The results of the Bremen, Hamburg and Berlin studies 1991-92, led to the conclusion that specific risk constellations have to be considered in the process of improving the drug counselling and health care system in the community. Primary prevention measures in kindergartens and schools, special services for families with addiction problems, decriminisation of drug abuse, the strengthening and specialisation of the counselling system and health services and new intervention strategies including methadone substitution should be integrated into local drug plans.
Development of the Adolescent Health Concerns Inventory.	Health concerns of adolescents are important factors to consider when developing and implementing school health education programs. In addition, an understanding of adolescent concerns compared to their teachers' and parents' beliefs about adolescents' concerns may enhance communication between adolescents and adults. Despite the need to identify the health concerns of adolescents and beliefs about them among parents and teachers, few instruments exist. The inventory described in this article is one approach to assessing adolescent health concerns. Three forms of the Adolescent Health Concerns Inventory (AHCI) were developed to assess: (1) the health concerns of adolescents, (2) teachers' beliefs about adolescent health concerns, and (3) parents' beliefs about adolescent health concerns. The final version of the instrument contained 150 health-related items grouped into 12 topical subscales. Reliability estimates for the 12 subscales as measured by Cronbach's alpha ranged from .76 to .92. A panel of experts was used to assess content validity. Construct validity was assessed using principal components factor analysis. All items were positively loaded on factor 1. Readability was estimated at the eighth grade as measured by the SMOG readability formula. Psychometric characteristics of the instrument and recommendations for the use of the ACHI are presented.
A school-based clinic for elementary schools in Phoenix, Arizona.	A community hospital, a school district, and a private pediatrician's office collaborated to ensure all children enrolled in five elementary schools had access to health care services. The school nurse at each school identified children needing health care services and obtained parental consent. The school nurse referred children to a nurse practitioner who visited one school each day. School nurses and space in the nurse's office were provided by the school district. The hospital provided a nurse practitioner as well as pharmacy, radiology, laboratory, and emergency department services. The pediatrician as medical director for the program provided vision, training, and community connections, and served as collaborating physician for the nurse practitioner.
Medical care at schools for children with physical handicaps]	As the number of heavily and diversely disabled children has been increasing in schools for physically handicapped children the so-called medical care has been taken up as the most important issue. Following the trend of normalization in social background, we defend children rights for education at the same time. We have to take up medical care at schools as a new educational issue to secure the quality of life for children with handicaps, however heavily and diversely disabled they may be. We have to realize the above urgently, since it is the matter of life and death for children. We have to cope with the problems of consolidation of faculties at schools, substantial in service training for teachers, cooperative work between medical facilities and schools, and other postponed measures.
A qualitative evaluation of school-based family resource and youth service centers.	As part of the Kentucky Education Reform Act, school-based Family Resource/Youth Service Centers were commissioned to address those poverty-related issues that attenuate children and youths' coming to school prepared to learn. The centers had flexible mandates and were to adapt their service profiles to local urban, suburban and rural communities. A variety of grounded, inductive qualitative strategies were employed in an implementation evaluation that yielded profiles or domains of program elements, and descriptions of implementation strategies and impact on participants. These program descriptors were considered accurate by program personnel, formed the basis for training new program coordinators, and have served as reliable predictors of educational outcomes for program participants, thus affirming the utility of the qualitative evaluation approaches.
The effectiveness of a tobacco prevention program with adolescents living in a tobacco-producing region.	This study investigated the efficacy of a social-influences tobacco prevention program conducted with adolescents living in a high tobacco production area.
School screening in remote aboriginal communities--results of an evaluation.	As part of ongoing quality assurance, the effectiveness of the school screening program in meeting the health needs of Aboriginal children in a rural district in the Northern Territory Top End was evaluated. The major health problems of Aboriginal children were analysed for their suitability for screening programs. A prospective cross-sectional study used routinely collected field data from the school screening program in 1993. To ascertain follow-up, children who had failed screening tests had their clinic notes reviewed. A total of 774 children from 11 remote communities were screened. The results confirmed high level of disease, with rates for anaemia, malnutrition and trachoma reaching 39%, 22% and 26% respectively. Nearly one-third failed the hearing screening, urinalysis was abnormal in 19%, 3% failed visual acuity and 6% were considered to have abnormal heart auscultation. Many of the major health problems did not meet the recommended criteria for screening programs and others would be better dealt with by ongoing surveillance rather than a single screening. Some abnormalities found on screening were inadequately investigated and/or treated. This evaluation has demonstrated a limited role for school screening in identifying and meeting the health needs of Aboriginal children living in remote areas. In collaboration with the NT Department of Education, a school-age child health policy, including a new school-age child health surveillance program, is being developed. This promotes greater participation by communities, families and schools with the aim of improving the health and learning outcomes for all school-age children in the NT.
