Managing health services organizations with an educational mission: the case of Canada.	Teaching hospitals represent a major segment of the Canadian health system, accounting for a disproportionate number of beds, patient days, and separations. Thus, although only six percent of hospitals are classified as teaching hospitals, they are responsible for about 36 percent of total hospital operating expenses. While affiliation with a medical school presents unique opportunities for the teaching hospital and increases its prestige, there are clear costs associated with affiliation. Administrators have less control over resource allocation decisions, including the types of teaching programs offered. Teaching hospitals cannot unilaterally design their own teaching programs around specialties and subspecialties of their own choosing; decisions related to teaching programs have a direct impact on the services provided by the hospital and may negatively affect the hospital's ability to fulfill its patient care mission. As education budgets are constrained, teaching hospitals are expected to assume outstanding teaching-related expenses. Teaching hospitals are also expected to shift some of their teaching to alternative settings, such as the community. Thus, teaching hospital administrators will require a strong background in finance as well as negotiation and political skills.
Academic medical centers: conflict from within.	The degree to which the priorities and constituencies of schools of medicine and university hospitals coincide and conflict is examined by the authors who suggest that the differences need not result in continuing unresolved disputes. Because federal support for primary care is likely to continue, medical school emphasis on this area will grow. However, by recognizing that the cost of primary care is highest in the university hospital setting, both the medical schools and university hospitals should realize that the university hospital cannot continue to serve as the sole clinical training ground for primary care physicians. Possible initiatives that might satisfy the interests of university hospitals and meet the educational responsibilities of the medical schools include: (1) the development of regional hospital consortiums which coordinate education and patient services by clinical specialty; (2) the development and expansion of area health education centers to include other non-tertiary care providers; and (3) the growth of medical school based health maintenance organizations. The authors suggest that medical schools and university hospital centers should plan programs that match academic needs with both resource availability and service obligations.
Developing workplace health promotion programs through university and corporate collaboration. A review of the Corporate Health Promotion Research Program.	The unique collaboration of the UCSF School of Medicine with community and national leaders in corporate health promotion has, in less than three years, made the Corporate Health Promotion Research Program a valuable resource to participating corporations. We are able to offer them sound consultation on health promotion programs, based on state-of-the-art research, at minimal cost to the employer or employees. In addition, we are educating employers about quality programs and the process and need for evaluation, in an effort to generate sound findings on the effects of corporate health promotion programs. Corporations are beginning to see that instead of being reactive and spending great sums of money only after employees become ill, it makes good sense to institute programs designed to prevent employees from becoming ill in the first place. With such programs, corporations not only improve the health of their employees (a worthy objective in its own right), but they contribute to containing medical costs at the same time--a clear "win-win" situation for all concerned. In short, corporations are finding that an ongoing, active interest in the health of their employees has a direct bearing on their own long-range health as a business. With this in mind, we feel that medical benefit plans of the future will be comprised of three elements: medical care plus cost-containment plus health promotion programs. With this order of complexity, no one company or professional organization has all the answers--and that should be acknowledged from the outset.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of a longitudinal course on student performance in clerkships.	To determine the effect that a 3-year primary-care course experience with family medicine, internal medicine, or pediatric preceptors would have on clerkship performance in pediatrics and internal medicine.
Market competition and patient-oriented research: the results of a national survey of medical school faculty.	To understand the effect of market competition on patient-oriented research at U.S. medical schools and teaching hospitals.
Job satisfaction and workplace characteristics of primary and specialty care physicians at a bimodal medical school.	A few medical schools are highly successful in obtaining research funding and producing primary care physicians. The authors compared the job satisfaction of primary and specialty care faculty at one of these bimodal schools.
Rediscovering the medical school.	Medical schools, once devoted primarily to educating medical students, have evolved into complex academic medical centers (AMCs), some of which place a greater emphasis on research and the clinical business than on educating future physicians. This occurred primarily as the result of outside forces, specifically the available revenue streams that have fostered growth. Discipline-based departments have been at the center of the governance structure of medical schools, but many AMCs now have research institutes and centers to enhance research productivity, and faculty group practices to maximize clinical revenue. Although AMCs have been successful in making scientific discoveries, developing new technologies, and providing state-of-the-art clinical care, their successes have not always been favorable to the education mission. Furthermore, the roles of departments and their chairs have not always been carefully considered; a mismatch between organizational and governance structures is occurring. In this article several suggestions are offered to help medical schools rediscover their unique reason for existence and better distinguish core missions from core businesses. Mission-based management and mission-based budgeting provide the framework for maximum success of all the missions. Specific suggestions include (1) organizing a national task force to consider optimal organizational and governance structures of modern AMCs, (2) establishing a core teaching faculty, (3) creating a matrix letter of assignment that aligns salary rates with assigned activities, (4) linking education to the provision of health care to the underinsured, and (5) forming education centers to effectively centralize governance of the education mission.
Addressing the urban pipeline challenge for the physician workforce: the Sophie Davis model.	The convergence of numerous trends indicates that a physician shortage by 2020 is likely. There is a 25% growth in the overall population, but that of the college-age sector is increasing by only 5%. The numbers of African Americans and Latinos in that sector will increase more than will members of other population groups; these two groups are most affected by the uneven quality of science education in urban high schools. Challenges to create a pipeline of a large, diverse, and qualified pool of medical school applicants are great, and are influenced by the actual and perceived cost of medical school tuition and the competition from other professions. Since 1973, the Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education, a seven-year joint BS/MD program, has expanded access to medical school education for talented inner-city youths, including minorities and those with limited financial resources. Students receive a BS degree and their first two years of medical school education and, upon successful completion of the United States Medical Licensing Examination Step 1, transfer to one of five cooperating medical schools in New York State that confer the terminal MD degree. Sophie Davis integrates medical studies in the baccalaureate program, using actual performance in medical studies as a predictor of success. Of the more than 1,400 of its graduates, 25% are African American, 8% are Latino, 28% are Asian American, and 39% are white. Over 25% of its current student body comes from federally defined low-income families, and almost three-quarters qualify for New York State financial aid. The Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education is a model that offers a partial response to those factors that will challenge the achievement of an adequate supply of physicians for our urban communities. The author describes the model in detail and explains how it helps talented but unevenly educated students rise to the challenge of a medical education.
Incorporating the fourth year of medical school into an internal medicine residency: effect of an accelerated program on performance outcomes and career choice.	To counter declining student interest in general internal medicine, New York Medical College and Saint Vincent's Catholic Medical Centers of New York implemented an experimental accelerated internal medicine curriculum that was provisionally approved by the American Board of Internal Medicine.
USDSM Alumni Student Scholars Program: successes of the first decade.	The Alumni Student Scholars Program (ASSP) was developed as a concerted effort by the School of Medicine to more effectively identify, train, and retain those top-notch South Dakota high school graduates who had a stated interest in pursuing a career in medicine, especially family practice, and for whom there was a high likelihood of return to practice in South Dakota. Relative to the USD undergraduate graduating classes of 1996-2003, 42 high school seniors from all corners of the state were selected as ASSP scholars. Of these, 28 successfully completed all ASSP undergraduate requirements and 25 ASSP scholars have entered medical school at USDSM. As of May 2003, USDSM has conferred the MD degree on 11 ASSP scholars, with five of those physicians (45%) electing to enter family practice residency programs.
The role of research in improving medical education and health care.	In the last decades, the role of research carried out in the universities, in the medical schools in particular, has been lessened. This was due to changes that occurred within the universities and to the development of several new institutions and organizations specifically devoted to scientific research. Therefore, it is stressed that research at the university level is an extremely important tool in medical education to train the students in view of their medical profession.
Research in medical education, a challenge to enhance the quality of education and care.	Research in education assumes that every intuition regarding the improvement in the educational process is followed by justification and foundation. Creativeness and rigor with the relative implications in the context of both research and justification are the two main elements. Knowledge characteristic of the transition from a PHOG approach, that is, based on prejudice, hunches, opinions, guess, to evidence-based education is not easy to collect, document, and generalize. This approach is of even more difficult application in a highly complex context, hard to know, control and improve. To achieve high quality education, research is required for the extremely high cost of non-quality and its strong impact on medical care, social prevention and clinical research. At the university level, everyone carries out research within his/her own discipline, however all should be involved in education at large. This is particularly relevant in the medical school where education is a function of continuous improvement in health care as well as in prevention, to be implemented through health-centered educational projects.
Community health advisors as research partners: an evaluation of the training and activities.	The feasibility of training large numbers of community health advisors as research partners (CHARPs) was evaluated using talking circles data and cancer activity questionnaires and logs. The talking circles data indicated that the CHARPs (n=108) valued their training and believed they learned necessary research partner skills. A review of contacts (n=7,956) provided evidence that CHARPs (n=883) could work as a team to deliver a variety of services over time to the community. The findings suggested that implementing a large scale intervention with CHARPs has the potential to increase the dissemination of cancer information and to reduce cancer disparities.
Revitalization of academic medicine in Albania.	The Faculty of Medicine in Tirana, the only institution providing medical training in Albania, has currently developed three separate branches of study, General Medicine, Dentistry, and Pharmacy. Since the early 1990s, following the collapse of the communist regime, many faculty members have been trained abroad in different areas of medical sciences. Yet, little emphasis is placed on research work and teaching of evidence-based medicine in both, undergraduate and postgraduate studies. Medical students are not exposed to sources of evidence, searching techniques, and important medical databases, such as PubMed and Cochrane Library. Exposing medical students and young physicians to probabilistic thinking, the importance of communication, and levels of evidence in medical practice is what the academic medicine in Albania should strive for. To address this challenge, the Faculty of Medicine in Tirana needs to strengthen the mobility of its students and their training in Western schools. These young and well-trained faculty members will provide the critical mass of future academicians required to develop a modern medical school in Tirana.
Factors associated with academic success at Vienna Medical School: prospective survey.	To identify factors relating to students' success in the study of medicine at the Medical University of Vienna. In view of Austria's tradition of open access to higher education, which results large number of students, high dropout rate, long duration of studies, factors predicting success could be helpful for student counseling.
A theoretical, practical, predictive model of faculty and department research productivity.	Although numerous characteristics impact faculty research productivity, and although researchers have suggested comprehensive theoretical models to explain the relationship between these characteristics and levels of faculty research productivity, few studies have assessed these models. This study tests the ability of the Bland et al. (2002) model-based on individual, institutional, and leadership variables influencing faculty research productivity-to explain individual and group (department) research productivity within the context of a large medical school.
The research productivity of faculty in family medicine departments at U.S. medical schools: a national study.	To determine the research productivity of faculty in family medicine departments at U.S. medical schools, as well as the individual and environmental characteristics and prior socializing experiences predictive of research productivity.
Problem-based learning outcomes: the glass half-full.	To compare the characteristics and outcome data of students from a single institution with a two-track, problem based learning (PBL) and standard (STND) curriculum.
The new medical education at the Faculty of Health Sciences, Linköping University--a challenge for both students and teachers.	The medical faculty at the Linköping University was established in 1970. Until 1986 the medical students spent their first two preclinical years in Uppsala and the last three and a half years in Linköping following a conventional medical curriculum. In the fall of 1986 the Health University (Faculty of Health Sciences) was established with a common organization and educational aims i.e. problem-based learning and multiprofessional education for six health educations, physicians, nurses, physioterapists, occupational therapists, laboratory technologists and community care managers. The medical education in Linköping then became complete with a thorough innovation of the curriculum. The first students following the new curriculum will have their final examinations in January 1992. The experiences of teachers and students are overwhelmingly positive as shown in an evaluation from the other five health curricula of shorter duration. Since no medical students have so far completed their studies according to the new curriculum no corresponding evaluation for the medical education is yet available. However, the author here describes his experiences in the new role as tutor and examiner.
Provision of anatomical teaching in a new British medical school: getting the right mix.	In response to a government report, which recommended a substantial increase in the number of medical students in the United Kingdom by 2005, several new medical schools have been set up throughout the country. One such school, the Brighton and Sussex Medical School (BSMS), recently opened its doors to new students. BSMS offers a 5-year medical curriculum that uses an integrated systems-based approach to cultivate academic knowledge and clinical experience. Anatomy is one of the core elements of the program and, as such, features strongly within the modular curriculum. The challenge for the anatomy faculty has been to decide how best to integrate anatomy into the new curriculum and what teaching modalities should be used. A multidisciplinary approach has been taken using both traditional and contemporary teaching methods. Unlike most of the other new medical schools, BSMS uses cadaveric dissection as the cornerstone of its teaching, as the faculty believes that dissection still provides the most powerful technique for demonstrating anatomy as well as enhancing communication and teamwork skills. The dissection experience is handled using an understanding and professional way. However, to ensure that our students do not become detached from the process of patient-focused care, emphasis in the dissecting room environment is also placed on respect and compassion. To enhance conceptual understanding of structure and function and provide further clinical relevance, we are using imaging technology to demonstrate living anatomy. Unique to the BSMS curriculum is the teaching of the anatomy in the later years of the program. During specialist rotations, students will return to the dissecting room to study the anatomy relevant to that area. Such vertical integration ensures that core anatomical knowledge is gained at the most appropriate level relative to a student's clinical experience.
Tobacco control competencies for US medical students.	The 2004 National Action Plan for Tobacco Cessation recommended that the US Department of Health and Human Services convene a diverse group of experts to ensure that competency in tobacco dependence interventions be a core graduation requirement for all new physicians and other key health care professionals. Core competencies would guide the design of new modules and explicitly outline the learning objectives for all graduating medical students. In 2002, the National Cancer Institute funded a consortium to develop, test, and integrate tobacco curricula at 12 US medical schools. Because there was neither an explicit set of tobacco competencies for medical schools nor a process to develop them, one of the consortium's tasks was to articulate competencies and learning objectives.
Evaluation of a complementary and alternative medicine rotation in medical school.	Despite widespread public use of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) therapies, no standardized CAM curriculum is available to medical educators, and evaluation of such curricula is limited.
The impact of the lack of health insurance: how should academic medical centers and medical schools respond?	The lack of health insurance has significant deleterious effects on the health of individual patients and creates substantial financial pressure on health care institutions. Despite the historical role of academic medical centers (AMCs) and medical schools in caring for the uninsured, financial shortfalls have increased pressure on these institutions to restrict care of this population. Limiting care of the uninsured, however, conflicts with the ethical foundations of academic medicine and risks further harm to the health of this population. Instead of restricting care, the effects of uninsurance should be mitigated through the joint efforts of medical schools and AMCs by measuring clinical work using work Relative Value Units rather than collections; recognizing faculty who provide care for the uninsured in the promotions process; adjusting billing rates for clinical services according to patients' ability to pay; delivering one standard of care irrespective of insurance status; continuing to evaluate the impact of uninsurance and intervention strategies; providing leadership in measuring and improving the quality of care; ensuring that trainees and the public are familiar with the effects of a lack of health insurance; and assisting safety net providers by providing educational materials pertinent to their respective patient populations and more fully integrating these providers into the academic community. Although all physicians in the private and public sectors should share in the care of the uninsured, academic medicine must remain faithful to its historical role of providing care to the uninsured and should improve the health of the uninsured through a proactive strategy involving advocacy, clinical care, education, and research.
The impact of centers and institutes on faculty life: findings from a study of basic science and internal medicine faculty at research-intensive medical schools.	To examine the impact of organized research centers on faculty productivity and work life for basic science and internal medicine faculty at research-intensive medical schools.
Do residents benefit from participating in internal medicine interest groups? A study of resident perceptions from two institutions.	For more than a decade, primary care residency training programs have struggled to attract graduates of U.S. medical schools. Internal medicine (IM) interest groups (IMIGs) have been widely instituted to foster student interest in careers in IM. Residents can participate in many IMIG activities. Studies have not assessed the benefits gained by resident participants in such groups.
Leadership strategies of medical school deans to promote quality and safety.	In April 2003, an informal collaborative of medical schools was convened by the Institute for Healthcare Improvement to achieve learning objectives for medical students for the improvement of care. The deans of the 10 founding schools were interviewed in 2004 regarding their strategies to achieve this goal.
The role of a clinically based computer department of instruction in a school of medicine.	The evolution of activities and educational directions of a department of instruction in medical computer technology in a school of medicine are reviewed. During the 18 years covered, the society at large has undergone marked change in availability and use of computation in every aspect of medical care. It is argued that a department of instruction should be clinical and develop revenue sources based on patient care, perform technical services for the institution with a decentralized structure, and perform both health services and scientific research. Distinction should be drawn between utilization of computing in medical specialties, library function, and instruction in computer science. The last is the proper arena for the academic content of instruction and is best labelled as the philosophical basis of medical knowledge, in particular, its epistemology. Contemporary pressures for teaching introductory computer skills are probably temporary.
Clinical academies: innovative school-health services partnerships to deliver clinical education.	During the past five years (2001-2006), the University of Bristol Medical School has developed and implemented a new model for delivering clinical education: the clinical academy. The principal features of the model are (1) having both in-Bristol and out-of-Bristol campuses for clinical education, (2) innovative partnerships with local health care providers, (3) local leadership of educational delivery, and (4) the recruitment and training of new cadres of clinical teachers. The seven clinical academies consist of two academies based in traditional acute-care teaching hospitals in the city of Bristol and five academies in the surrounding counties. The same Bristol curriculum is delivered in every clinical academy by locally recruited hospital specialists and family physicians. Each academy is led by an academy medical dean, who has local responsibility for program delivery, quality assurance, academic and personal support for students, and finances on behalf of the university. Medical students rotate between clinical academies every half academic year, alternately based in and outside of Bristol. They learn clinical medicine and develop clinical competence as apprentice members of a local multiprofessional learning community. The medical school now has enough high-quality clinical placements to accommodate increasing numbers of medical students whilst keeping a "human-scale" educational environment. Clinical academies are thus the key components of a decentralized system of curriculum delivery; they differ in concept and purpose from the new academies of medical educators in the United States that offer a centralized focus for the educational mission.
Medical training in school-based health centers: a collaboration among five medical schools.	School-based health centers (SBHCs) have tremendous untapped potential as models for learning about systems-based care of vulnerable children. SBHCs aim to provide comprehensive, community-based primary health care to primary and secondary schoolchildren who might not otherwise have ready access to that care. The staffing at SBHCs is multidisciplinary, including various combinations of nurse practitioners, physicians, dentists, nutritionists, and mental health providers. Although this unique environment provides obvious advantages to children and their families, medical students and residents receive little or no preparation for this type of practice. To address these deficiencies in medical education, five downstate New York state medical schools, funded by the New York State Department of Health, collaborated to define, develop, implement, and evaluate curricula that expose health professions students and residents to SBHCs. The schools identified core competencies and developed a comprehensive training model for the project, including clinical experiences, didactic sessions, and community service opportunities, and they developed goals, objectives, and learning materials for each competency for all types and levels of learners. Each school has implemented a wide range of learning activities based on the competencies. In this paper, the authors describe the development of the collaboration and illustrate the process undertaken to implement new curricula, including considerations made to address institutional needs, curricula development, and incorporation into existing curricula. In addition, they discuss the lessons learned from conducting this collaborative effort among medical schools, with the goal of providing guidance to establish effective cross-disciplinary curricula that address newly defined competencies.
Continuous quality improvement and community-based faculty development through an innovative site visit program at one institution.	This article describes and evaluates a unique site-visit process for community-based teaching sites. A continuous quality-improvement program was developed by the undergraduate program in the Department of Family and Community Medicine at the University of Toronto Faculty of Medicine to facilitate and document both self- and peer-assessment. A pilot program was launched in 2000, and, after some adjustments based on initial feedback, the program in its current form was implemented in 2002. This program provides individualized support mechanisms to address the faculty development needs and infrastructure requirements of community-based, mostly volunteer, teachers. It also trains participating reviewers to provide individualized faculty development at the point of teaching. During their training, reviewers receive a toolkit consisting of suggestions for initial contact with teachers, guidelines for peer assessments, previously completed previsit teacher surveys, reviewer checklists, postvisit feedback forms, sample thank-you letters, and a faculty development reference resource list. A two-year evaluation of the program demonstrated that faculty and reviewer participants perceived it to be comprehensive, consistent, informative, and an acceptable method of reviewing existing and prospective community-based teaching sites. This program should be transferable to other institutions that engage in community-based teaching.
Where physicians practicing in Appalachia in 1978 to 1990 were trained and how they were distributed in urban and rural Appalachia.	Medical school graduates who graduated from 1978 to 1986 were analyzed to determine the health professions' ability worldwide to educate and place primary care physicians in rural areas of Appalachia. These data indicate that the University System of West Virginia--consisting of the West Virginia School of Osteopathic Medicine, West Virginia University Medical School, and Marshall University Medical School--produced the most primary care physicians who began practicing in rural Appalachia during the 1980s. The West Virginia School of Osteopathic Medicine successfully retained 106 (26%) of its graduates in primary care practices throughout rural Appalachia, with 77 of them in rural West Virginia, making the institution the nation's leading provider of primary care physicians practicing in rural Appalachia and West Virginia during this eight-year study period. With the exception of West Virginia, these and additional data support concerns of medical educators and public health officials that physicians in Appalachia are distributed disproportionately, more to urban than to rural counties.
Undergraduate osteopathic medical education.	This article details requests from the nation's 23 accredited colleges of osteopathic medicine (COMs) for class-size increases and the establishment of new COMs and branch campuses. Basic data on COM applicants and applications, matriculants, and graduates are also provided. Tuition, revenues, and expenditures at COMs are outlined.
Enhancing research in a family medicine program: one institution's story.	To enhance research productivity among East Tennessee State University's faculty, the Department of Family Medicine developed and implemented a multi-component initiative to expand multidisciplinary primary care research.
Public health education for medical students: rising to the professional challenge.	Public health competencies, especially as they relate to the management of chronic disease, will be of increasing importance to the global health-care workforce. The General Medical Council's recommendations on basic medical education have helped to entrench the position of public health and related disciplines. Tomorrow's Doctors has recently been updated. This article describes the indicative goals that should underpin the development of undergraduate medical education in public health, presented in a national statement. The statement was originally produced on behalf of academic departments of public health and related disciplines in UK medical schools. The dearth of evidence in this field leaves many questions for future educational research.
Autonomous departments of emergency medicine in contemporary academic medical centers.	There are currently 20 autonomous departments of emergency medicine in United States medical schools. EDs seeking autonomous status should institute a faculty development program to channel faculty energy into worthwhile research projects; establish protected time for clinical faculty to increase research productivity; develop expertise to compete for extramural funding; initiate an intramural research program so that faculty can learn the basics of grantsmanship; teach health care issues in ambulatory medicine; become involved in interdisciplinary teaching programs and curriculum development; maintain the present faculty commitment to 24-hour attending coverage; and develop university-based programs that originate from the ED. Program directors should establish liaisons with the medical school dean to acquaint him with the advantages of an autonomous department of emergency medicine; attempt to assess other relationships within the medical school to determine support for emergency medicine and to uncover and address opposition to autonomous departmental status; attempt to serve on medical school committees to meet other faculty, solve problems with them and develop trusting relationships; and develop broad-based support for autonomous departmental status both within and outside of the university. By devising and following a deliberate approach to attaining departmental status, emergency medicine will be assured of continued growth in the important decade ahead.
Educating residents in behavioral health care and collaboration: comparison of conventional and integrated training models.	To determine whether former pediatric residents trained using a model of integrated behavioral health (BH) care in their primary care continuity clinics felt more comfortable managing BH care and better prepared to collaborate with BH professionals than did peers from the same residency who trained in clinics with a conventional model of BH care.
Nonstandard Programs: the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center's next frontier in graduate medical education.	The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center has seen continuous growth in the number and types of graduate training programs not accredited by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME), the American Board of Medical Specialties, or the American Osteopathic Association. For the purposes of ensuring best educational products and of controlling unrecognized competition with our accredited programs, a sequential process of centralized oversight of these nonstandard programs was undertaken. The first step involved programs whose fellows were hired and tracked like accredited fellows (i.e., not instructors). The basic process began with consensus among leadership, writing of policy with consultation as necessary, establishment of a registry of programs and graduates, and a committee to allow sharing of best practices and dissemination of policy. The second step applied the same process to instructor-level programs. Whereas the previous group of programs was made subject to ACGME regulations, more latitude in duty hours and progressive responsibility were allowed for instructor programs. The final step, in progress, is extending a similar but modified approach to short-duration clinical experiences and observerships. The outcomes of these efforts have been the creation of a centralized organizational structure, policies to guide this structure, an accurate registry of a surprising number of training programs, and a rolling record of all graduates from these programs. Included in the process is a mechanism that ensures that core program directors and department chairs specifically review the impact of new programs on core programs before allowing their creation.
Medical education in the Caribbean: a longitudinal study of United States Medical Licensing Examination performance, 2000-2009.	Caribbean-educated physicians play an important role in the United States. The purpose of this study was to investigate medical school development in the Caribbean, concentrating on performance trends of Caribbean-educated physicians over the past decade.
A comparison of multiple mini-interviews and structured interviews in a UK setting.	The multiple mini-interview (MMI) has been shown to be a valuable tool to aid the selection of medical students. The increasing body of research data so far has not evaluated this approach in the UK, where selection for medical training has traditionally included a single unstructured or structured interview.
Why don't they know enough about anatomy? A narrative review.	Publications in a variety of journals have described the problem of medical students' decreasing anatomical knowledge. Interestingly, the number of people making this assertion is growing, despite a lack of empirical evidence that today's medical graduates actually know less about anatomy than medical students in the past. Nevertheless, many people are claiming that students' anatomical knowledge is impaired due to negative effects from several factors, including teaching by non-medically qualified teachers, diminished use of cadaver dissection as a teaching tool and neglect of vertical integration of anatomy teaching.
Towards a new curriculum for the faculty of medicine of the National University of Mexico (UNAM)]	The 2010 undergraduate medical degree curriculum at the Faculty of Medicine of the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico (UNAM) is the result of eight years of collegiate work, which started under the leadership of Dr. Jose Narro Robles, our current Dean. In order to fulfill the aim of integrally developing a physician in the scientific, technical, social and human aspects, this academic plan considered the adaptations from a self-assessment test, the opinions expressed during academic workshops with professors from different disciplines, the work of committees and the results of external evaluations, as well as national and international health issues. New areas of knowledge that arose from whirling changes were also included in this plan, new technologies were adopted, the student was considered responsible for his own learning, and the development of unprecedented competences was considered. All this resulted in a departmental infrastructure that is our Faculty of Medicine’s strength.An education model was defined by subjects with an outline of two years of basic sciences and two-and-a-half years of clinical work aside from internship and social service. In order to achieve this and seek a better curricular organization, three curricular axes were settled: bio- and sociomedical clinic integration, medicine/information technology link, and the ethical/humanistic professional combination. We are certain that the 2010 Academic Curriculum will draw the graduates we need to train and to the professional requisites for our society in the XXI century.
Diagnosis on the unique curriculum of the medical career at the National University of Mexico]	The analysis of the Plan Unico de Estudios of the medical career was the result of five years of collegiate work in which commissions consisting of academic staff of different departments from the faculty of medicine at the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico (UNAM) participated. The most significant conclusions derived from this analysis are: to adjust the graduate’s profile in order to face the emerging health problems of the twenty-first century in our country; to update the academic curricula of the different subjects, including new ones; to create a nuclear curricula; as well as to strengthen the basic-clinic and the clinic-basic. With regard to the teaching/learning process, we acknowledged the need to develop self-cognitive and self-motivational skills in students as well as to consider a different evaluation for students and teachers.
Modifications to the faculty of medicine core curriculum at the National University of Mexico: adjusting the basic sciences program]	In order to identify the core curriculum of each course from the faculty of medicine’s study plan at the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico (UNAM), 22 workshops were organized. A total of 505 professors of 22 different subjects participated to identify the core content of each course: to define essential and necessary contents; to relate each objective´s course with some of the eight established competences; and to apply an individual questionnaire where the professor suggests strategies for the vertical and horizontal integration among similar courses. At the end of these workshops, several meetings were carried out to incorporate the work done in order to design an integrated and modified program with the essential and necessary knowledge, eliminating the obsolete one. We also managed to integrate two courses in both horizontal and vertical ways to avoid repetition of topics.
The 2010 curriculum of the faculty of medicine at the National University of Mexico]	The 2010 undergraduate medical degree curriculum at the faculty of medicine of the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico (UNAM) constitutes an important curricular reform of medical education in our country. It is the result of an institutional reflective process and academic dialog, which culminated in its approval by UNAM’s Academic Council for the Biology, Chemistry, and Health Sciences areas on February 2nd, 2010. Some distinguishing characteristics of the new academic curriculum are: organization by courses with a focus on outcome competencies; three curricular axes that link three knowledge areas; four educational phases with achievement profiles; new courses (biomedical informatics, basic-clinical and clinical-basic integration, among others); and core curriculum. The aforementioned curriculum was decided within a framework of effective teaching strategies, competency oriented learning assessment methods, restructuring of the training of teaching staff, and establishment of a curriculum committee follow-up and evaluation of the program. Curricular change in medical education is a complex process through which the institution can achieve its mission and vision. This change process faces challenges and opportunities, and requires strategic planning with long-term foresight to guarantee a successful dynamic transition for students, teachers, and for the institution itself.
The Faculty of Medical Sciences, St Augustine, and its contribution to human resource development in the Caribbean.	The University of the West Indies (UWI), Faculty of Medical Sciences (FMS), St Augustine campus, began teaching its undergraduate programme in October 1989, in three Schools: Medicine, Dentistry and Veterinary Medicine. The first batch of students graduated in 1994. A four-year Pharmacy Programme commenced in 1995, producing its first graduates in 1999 and ten years later an accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing was started and saw its first graduates in 2006. In its twenty years of existence, the FMS has graduated 2380 students from its undergraduate programmes. The facuhy has thus strengthened the human resource capacity in the health sector of most of the contributing territories of the Caribbean region and the vast majority of the undergraduates have been from Trinidad and Tobago.
Cultural competence springs up in the desert: the story of the center for cultural competence in health care at Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar.	The authors describe the factors that led Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar (WCMC-Q) to establish the Center for Cultural Competence in Health Care from the ground up, and they explore challenges and successes in implementing cultural competence training.Qatar's capital, Doha, is an extremely high-density multicultural setting. When WCMC-Q's first class of medical students began their clinical clerkships at the affiliated teaching hospital Hamad Medical Corporation in 2006, the complicated nature of training in a multicultural and multilingual setting became apparent immediately. In response, initiatives to improve students' cultural competence were undertaken. Initiatives included launching a medical interpretation program in 2007; surveying the patients' spoken languages, examining the effect of an orientation program on interpretation requests, and surveying faculty using the Tool for Assessing Cultural Competence Training in 2008; implementing cultural competence training for students and securing research funding in 2009; and expanding awareness to the Qatar community in 2010. These types of initiatives, which are generally highly valued in U.S. and Canadian settings, are also apropos in the Arabian Gulf region.The authors report on their initial efforts, which can serve as a resource for other programs in the Arabian Gulf region.
Why are a quarter of faculty considering leaving academic medicine? A study of their perceptions of institutional culture and intentions to leave at 26 representative U.S. medical schools.	Vital, productive faculty are critical to academic medicine, yet studies indicate high dissatisfaction and attrition. The authors sought to identify key personal and cultural factors associated with intentions to leave one's institution and/or academic medicine.
A standards-based, peer-reviewed teaching award to enhance a medical school's teaching environment and inform the promotions process.	The authors provide the rationale, design, and description of a unique teaching award that has enhanced Baylor College of Medicine's teaching environment and become highly valued by the promotions and tenure (P&T) committee in determining a faculty member's readiness for promotion. This award is self-nominating and standards based. The primary purpose for development of the award was to provide the Baylor community and the P&T committee a method to understand and value the scholarship of teaching to the same degree that they understand and value the scholarship of discovery.The authors also present results from an internal evaluation of the program that included a survey and interviews. Between the inception of the award in 2001 and the internal review conducted in 2010, the award could have had an influence on the promotion of 130 of the recipients. Of the 130, 88 (65.6%) received this award before gaining their current rank (χ (1) = 16.3, P < .001). Stakeholders, including department chairs and members of the P&T committee, agreed that this award is valuable to those seeking promotion. Individual recipients stated that the award is good for the institution by encouraging reflection on teaching; increasing the recognition, importance, and value of teaching; encouraging the improvement of teaching skills; and providing a better understanding to others about what medical teachers really do. Of the 214 open-ended responses to survey questions of award recipients, more than half the comments were about the value of the award and its positive effect on promotion.
Governance and assessment in a widely distributed medical education program in Australia.	The learning objectives, curriculum content, and assessment standards for distributed medical education programs must be aligned across the health care systems and community contexts in which their students train. In this article, the authors describe their experiences at Monash University implementing a distributed medical education program at metropolitan, regional, and rural Australian sites and an offshore Malaysian site, using four different implementation models. Standardizing learning objectives, curriculum content, and assessment standards across all sites while allowing for site-specific implementation models created challenges for educational alignment. At the same time, this diversity created opportunities to customize the curriculum to fit a variety of settings and for innovations that have enriched the educational system as a whole.Developing these distributed medical education programs required a detailed review of Monash's learning objectives and curriculum content and their relevance to the four different sites. It also required a review of assessment methods to ensure an identical and equitable system of assessment for students at all sites. It additionally demanded changes to the systems of governance and the management of the educational program away from a centrally constructed and mandated curriculum to more collaborative approaches to curriculum design and implementation involving discipline leaders at multiple sites.Distributed medical education programs, like that at Monash, in which cohorts of students undertake the same curriculum in different contexts, provide potentially powerful research platforms to compare different pedagogical approaches to medical education and the impact of context on learning outcomes.
Florida State University College of Medicine: from ideas to outcomes.	The Florida State University College of Medicine (FSU COM) was established in 2000, the first new MD-granting medical school in the United States in over 25 years. In its brief history, the FSU COM has developed rapidly in accordance with its founding mission to meet the need for primary care physicians, especially those caring for the elderly and the underserved. The school recently received a full continuation of accreditation for the maximum period, eight years, from the Liaison Committee on Medical Education.The authors describe FSU COM's new, innovative educational program using community-based clinical training on six statewide regional campuses and two rural sites. Third- and fourth-year students are assigned to community physicians in a one-on-one clinical training model in all of the settings where physicians practice. Over 70% of student clinical training is in such settings. The authors describe how the model operates, including curricular oversight (which ensures quality and equivalence of the educational experience at all sites), the regional campus structure, administration, education program delivery during core clerkships, and assessment of students' performance. Ongoing required faculty development for all clerkship faculty is an essential feature of the training program, as is tracking of all individual student contacts through an online clinical data collection system used for evaluation of the clerkship experiences as well as research.The authors demonstrate that the school has been highly successful in implementing its mission, and that the challenge ahead is to sustain its approach to the training of future physicians.
Commentary:  discovering a different model of medical student education.	Traditional medical schools in modern academic health centers make discoveries, create new knowledge and technology, provide innovative care to the sickest patients, and educate future academic and practicing physicians. Unfortunately, the growth of the research and clinical care missions has sometimes resulted in a loss of emphasis on the general professional education of medical students. The author concludes that it may not be practical for many established medical schools to functionally return to the reason they were created: for the education of medical students.He had the opportunity to discover a different model of medical student education at the first new MD-granting medical school created in the United States in 25 years (in 2000), the Florida State University College of Medicine. He was initially skeptical about how its distributed regional campuses model, using practicing primary care physicians to help medical students learn in mainly ambulatory settings, could be effective. But his experience as a faculty member at the school convinced him that the model works very well.He proposes a better alignment of form and function for many established medical schools and an extension of the regional community-based model to the formation of community-based primary care graduate medical education programs determined by physician workforce needs and available resources.
Undergraduate GPAs, MCAT scores, and academic performance the first 2 years in podiatric medical school at Des Moines University.	This study was performed to determine the relationship between undergraduate academic performance and total Medical College Admission Test score and academic performance in the podiatric medical program at Des Moines University. The allopathic and osteopathic medical professions have published educational research examining this relationship. To our knowledge, no such educational research has been published for podiatric medical education.
Effect of technology on student class performance and class absence.	This study examined the effect of instructional technology availability on the performance of students enrolled in a medical physiology course at a podiatric medical school.
Can we predict first-time failure on the podiatric boards using an admission screen?	This study examined the success of an admission screen in identifying applicants who will fail Part I or Part II of the Podiatric Boards on the first attempt.
Results of an effort to integrate quality and safety into medical and nursing school curricula and foster joint learning.	Improvements in health care are slow, in part because doctors and nurses lack skills in quality improvement, patient safety, and interprofessional teamwork. This article reports on the Retooling for Quality and Safety initiative of the Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation and the Institute for Healthcare Improvement, which sought to integrate improvement and patient safety into medical and nursing school curricula. In one academic year, 2009-10, the initiative supported new learning activities (87 percent of which were interprofessional, involving both medical and nursing students) in classrooms, simulation centers, and clinical care settings that involved 1,374 student encounters at six universities. The work generated insights-described in this article-into which learning goals require interprofessional education; how to create clinically based improvement learning for all students; and how to demonstrate the effects on students' behavior, organizational practice, and benefits to patients. A commonly encountered limiting factor for the programs was the lack of a critical mass of clinically based faculty members who were ready to teach about the improvement of care. What's more, the paucity of robust evaluation strategies for such programs suggests a future research agenda that deserves to be funded.
The Greater Metropolitan Medical Alumni Council (GMMAC): the realization of a need.	The greater New York metropolitan area includes 8 medical schools. Their alumni association (AA) presidents formed a council 6 years ago, meeting 3 times a year to share ideas and identify best practices to solve mutual problems challenging students and alumni.
The more it changes; the more it remains the same: a Foucauldian analysis of Canadian policy documents relevant to student selection for medical school.	Calls to increase the demographic representativeness of medical classes to better reflect the diversity of society are part of a growing international trend. Despite this, entry into medical school remains highly competitive and exclusive of marginalized groups. To address these questions, we conducted a Foucauldian discourse analysis of 15 publically available policy documents from the websites of Canadian medical education regulatory bodies, using the concepts of "excellence" (institutional or in an applicant), "diversity," and "equity" to frame the analysis. In most documents, there were appeals to broaden definitions of institutional excellence to include concerns for greater social accountability. Equity concerns tended to be represented as needing to be dealt with by people in positions of authority in order to counter a "hidden curriculum." Diversity was represented as an object of value, situated within a discontinuous history. As a rhetorical strategy, documents invoked complex societal shifts to promote change toward a more humanistic medical education system and profession. "Social accountability" was reified as an all-encompassing solution to most issues of representation. Although the policy documents proclaimed rootedness in an ethos of improving the societal responsiveness of the medical profession, our analysis takes a more critical stance towards the discourses identified. On the basis of our research findings, we question whether these calls may contribute to the maintenance of the specific power relations they seek to address. These conclusions lead us to consider the possibility that the discourses represented in the documents might be reframed to take into account issues of power distribution and its productive and reproductive features. A reframing of discourses could potentially generate greater inclusiveness in policy development processes, and afford disadvantaged and marginalized groups more participatory roles in the discussion.
How does an increase in undergraduate teaching load affect GP teacher motivation? A grounded theory study using data from a new medical school.	The opening of a new medical school is a cause for celebration. Starting with a clean slate often gives the opportunity to adopt more modern teaching practices. However, encouraging large numbers of clinicians to start teaching and to adopt these new methods brings its own set of challenges. During the expansion phase of a new medical school, it was often noted that new teachers seemed to have considerable difficulties, and often expressed these as negativity towards student placements. This did not chime with much of the work from established schools, which seemed to evaluate expansion of teaching more positively. We wanted to better understand the issues involved. Semi-structured interviews were conducted involving GPs who had received medical students over the first four years of a newly established medical school. The aims were to assess the impact of the students on the new teachers, and to try to better understand why some teachers were experiencing difficulties. We collected qualitative and quantitative data at the interviews. The qualitative data were analysed using grounded theory which aims to link emerging themes together. The findings suggest that as the quantity of teaching medical students increases, the enjoyment and commitment to teaching may decrease. Concerns over the administration of teaching may begin to predominate. Two factors may help to reduce this: 1 Adequate investment in manpower and premises to reduce time and space constraints on teaching. 2 Practices considering themselves as teaching practices where education is a part of the practice identity. 
Critical analysis of a trauma fellowship-modeled, six-year orthopaedic surgery training program.	Work-hour restrictions and increased supervision requirements have altered the clinical experience of orthopaedic surgery residents, while the specialty's body of knowledge and requisite skill set continue to expand. This dilemma means that the duration and practice experience of the traditional orthopaedic residency may not meet the needs of today's trainees. For the past eighteen years, however, residency training in the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery at Brown University has included a mandatory postgraduate year six (PGY6) trauma fellowship-modeled year, during which trainees are conferred full staff admitting and operating privileges, with time allotted for completing research. They are supervised by senior attending staff, with increasing autonomy as the year progresses. A formal, critical analysis of this transition-to-practice training model in orthopaedics has not previously been described.
Pharmacology education in North American dental schools: the basic science survey series.	As part of the Basic Science Survey Series (BSSS) for Dentistry, members of the American Dental Education Association (ADEA) Physiology, Pharmacology, and Therapeutics Section surveyed course directors of basic pharmacology courses in North American dental schools. The survey was designed to assess, among other things, faculty affiliation and experience of course directors, teaching methods, general course content and emphasis, extent of interdisciplinary (shared) instruction, and impact of recent curricular changes. Responses were received from forty-nine of sixty-seven (73.1 percent) U.S. and Canadian dental schools. The findings suggest the following: 1) substantial variation exists in instructional hours, faculty affiliation, placement within curriculum, class size, and interdisciplinary nature of pharmacology courses; 2) pharmacology course content emphasis is similar among schools; 3) the number of contact hours in pharmacology has remained stable over the past three decades; 4) recent curricular changes were often directed towards enhancing the integrative and clinically relevant aspects of pharmacology instruction; and 5) a trend toward innovative content delivery, such as use of computer-assisted instruction applications, is evident. Data, derived from this study, may be useful to pharmacology course directors, curriculum committees, and other dental educators with an interest in integrative and interprofessional education. 
Knowledge and perceptions of family leave policies among female faculty in academic medicine.	The purpose of this research was to examine the knowledge and perceptions of family leave policies and practices among senior leaders including American Association of Medical College members of the Group on Women in Medicine and Science (GWIMS) to identify perceived barriers to career success and satisfaction among female faculty.
Positive impacts on rural and regional workforce from the first seven cohorts of James Cook University medical graduates.	The regionally-based James Cook University (JCU) School of Medicine aims to meet its mission to address the health needs of the region by combining selection and curriculum strategies shown to increase rural career recruitment outcomes. The School has graduated 536 students in its first seven cohorts from 2005 to 2011. This paper presents the early career practice locations and the specialty training undertaken by these cohorts, and describes the association between later practice location with both hometown at application and internship location.
Predictive validity of a new integrated selection process for medical school admission.	This paper is an evaluation of an integrated selection process utilising previous academic achievement [Universities Admission Index (UAI)], a skills test [Undergraduate Medicine and Health Sciences Admission Test (UMAT)], and a structured interview, introduced (in its entirety) in 2004 as part of curriculum reform of the undergraduate Medicine Program at the University of New South Wales (UNSW), Australia. Demographic measures of gender, country of birth, educational background and rurality are considered.
Innovation, ideology and innocence.	Innovative solutions are required to deal with the inadequacies of existing medical education programmes, in both the developed and developing countries, if we are to promote the evolution of more acceptable, more efficient and more effective health care. The newly formed Network of Community-oriented Educational Institutions for Health Sciences is attempting to promote a series of educational and organisational innovations, aimed at the preparation of health professionals who will be better equipped and better motivated to meet the real health needs of the populations they are to serve. Such innovations encounter many obstacles, of which ideologically-based inflexibility of thought is the most important. Ideologies are here defined, in Barnett's words, as "patterns of belief ... quasi-conceptual, quasi-affective sets assumed to be true", having the power to prohibit "rigorous or experimental examination of novel experience." Such systems of thought have 'negative, restrictive and pathological effects' on the development of innovative solutions to complex problems. A particularly destructive and inhibiting stereotype has flowed from an ideological commitment to the achievement of 'international excellence'. A state of what in this paper is called 'innocence' is regarded as mandatory for the implementation of studies based on a commitment to the empirical approach, to the null hypothesis and above all to the evaluation of the process and outcome of educational and other interventions in the health care system.
Tracking: an answer to psychiatry's recruitment problem?	Part of psychiatry's recruitment problem stems from large-scale defections among students who were planning careers in psychiatry when they entered medical school. The authors present data indicating that University of Maryland freshmen who preferred psychiatry were more than four times as likely to enter psychiatric residency training if they participated in the Combined Accelerated Program in Psychiatry, a continuous 4-year medical school track, than if they pursued the regular undergraduate psychiatry program. The authors believe that an enthusiastic psychiatric faculty intimately involved with students over an extended period of time was the crucial factor neutralizing antipsychiatric socialization experiences in medical school.
Medical education and reform initiatives in Germany.	The health care systems of highly industrialized countries are being restructured in the face of aging populations, economic dislocations, and limited resources. They also face reforms to medical education. Despite significant differences in their systems, countries can learn from examining the advantages and disadvantages of others' approaches to educating medical students. Germany has begun to implement various reforms of medical education and medical practice, and the unification of East and West Germany has reinforced these reform efforts. The author presents background data and information on the number of practicing physicians in Germany and their practice settings; the number of medical students; admission policies and the curricula of German medical schools; and the nature of post-medical school training. He then describes some proposed reforms to the medical curriculum, and the experience of the Medical School of Hannover in implementing and evaluating some of these changes.
Administrative relationships between community mental health centers and academic psychiatry departments: a 12-year update.	The authors investigated the administrative relationships in 1990 between medical school departments of psychiatry and community mental health centers (CMHCs).
Role of emergency medicine residency programs in determining emergency medicine career choice among medical students.	To characterize the role of emergency medicine residency programs in determining emergency medicine career choice among medical students.
Collaboration in support of curriculum media: educational media and video production services.	Video Production Services and the Educational Media Department of the St. Louis University Health Sciences Center Library have an interrelated working relationship serving the schools of medicine, nursing, and allied health by providing videotaped instructional material. This paper details the various processes involved from the time a faculty member approaches the librarian in search of a specific subject video to the completion of an original production by the video professional, with both professionals playing an integral role in the provision of high quality curricular material. Our experience in the evolution of the process provides other medical libraries or biomedical communications units with a framework for successful production delivery.
Time to return medical schools to their primary purpose: education.	The author maintains that the quality of medical education has been dropping for the last few decades as medical schools become less and less focused on their primary purpose of training physicians. Until the years immediately following World War II, the administration of the medical school was carried out by a small staff headed by a dean whose role was to provide leadership in educational matters. Academic departments managed the educational program, and the faculty were expected to be teachers and to participate in educational planning, preparation of teaching materials, advising of students, assessment of students' performances, admission, and all other tasks associated with having a teaching position. Today, the administration of a typical school includes any number of assistants to the dean and a wide variety of other staff dealing not only with educational functions but with grant management, public relations, fund-raising, personnel policy, budgeting, and an enormous and complex parallel structure designed to manage clinical practice and to respond to market pressures. The role of faculty has also changed greatly; faculty are expected to be researchers and clinicians first, and teaching is usually shortchanged. The author explains why he believes these changes have come about; for example, the strong federal support of research after World War II, which encouraged a growing dependence of medical schools on research grants and consequently raised in importance those faculty who could obtain such grants. He concludes with common-sense proposals for reform (such as having the education of medical students in the hands of a small number of faculty whose prime responsibility is teaching), but admits that there are fundamental barriers to such reforms, especially vested interests and resistance to change. In the end, change will come only when those in power recognize that medical schools must be returned to their primary role of training physicians.
A blueprint for linking academic oncology and the community.	The processes by which academic medicine will train the next generation of physicians and develop new knowledge have brought to the forefront the relationship between academic medical centers and community hospitals and practitioners. Over the past thirteen years, the Harvard Medical School Joint Center for Radiation Therapy (JCRT) has developed an integrated radiation oncology program designed to serve simultaneously the needs of the community, teaching hospitals, medical schools, and faculty. The structure and function of this program are described here, as are the challenges posed by the highly competitive health care marketplace. We believe that long-term vision should guide short-term goals. The success of academic-community collaborative programs depends not only on the good will and vision of the participants but also on the medical administration, academic leadership, policy makers, and politicians who define the principles and rules by which cooperation within the health care industry occurs.
Outlines of the immunological research in the Institute of Microbiology; Semmelweis Medical University.	The working group on immunology under the leadership of Pál Földes began its activity with poliovirus studies during the severe epidemics of 1957. It was he who first in Hungary isolated poliovirus strain from patients [1]. His colleague was Ilona, Szeri who had gained her first experiences in virology at József Sinkovics's virus laboratory. Then Zsuzsanna Bános and Piroska Anderlik joined them and became permanent members of the working group on immunology. Since 1965 with the leadership of Ilona Szeri, they have been conducting basic researches into immunology for over three decades at the Institute, with a wide sphere of collaborators. Research has been intended to acquire more thorough and precise knowledge of the role in immunobiology of the thymus and lymphoid system and of pathogenesis of the wasting syndrome as well as of interactions of the microorganisms and the organism. The most significant results are going to be summed up in the following.
