Crisis preparedness.	There were many lessons learned from the incident and the subsequent critique. Picture a similar incident in your school building. Are you prepared? Does your plan have the essential elements to allow you to deal effectively with multiple injuries? While it is true you cannot plan for every contingency, you can develop a triage plan and evaluate your environment as to how it would serve in a similar situation. Make preparations now while you have the time, instead of during an emergency.
Empowering preadolescents With ADHD: demons or delights.	This study tested the clinical utility of the Frame Model of Preadolescent Empowerment as a means of enhancing the self-perception of children diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The intervention, which has theoretical roots in Roy's Adaptation Model, Harter's Developmental Perspective, and Murrell-Armstrong's Empowerment Matrix, was administered to children with ADHD in a pretest/posttest design. Findings indicate that this model significantly increased the perceptions of self-worth in preadolescents with ADHD.
Understanding the culture of Chinese children and families.	Providing appropriate health care to a client can be accomplished only in an environment that is sensitive to the cultural values and beliefs of the client. As the population of first- and second-generation Chinese immigrants increases in the United States, the need to develop culturally sensitive health care becomes significant. Chinese immigrants and their families have become an important part of American society, including the school setting. The school nurse, who regularly works with students and families, should work in a manner that allows Chinese immigrants to maintain their cultural values and beliefs, while providing appropriate care for the student. The Chinese culture is unique and holds values and beliefs that contrast with those of the Western culture. A school nurse who understands and incorporates the Chinese culture will be better able to develop a positive interaction with the family and make arrangements for culturally appropriate care.
The school nurse role in asthma management: can the action plan help?	Asthma is the most common chronic disorder in American schoolchildren, and school nurses play a valuable role in its management. A study was conducted in which school nurses were asked to describe their role in caring for students with asthma and their use of Asthma Action Plans (AAPs). The nurses indicated that they frequently provided direct care and education. They were comfortable with providing care to students with asthma and familiar with AAPs. Having an AAP increased their confidence in managing students with asthma. This emphasizes the need for continued education regarding the AAP and the development of policies that direct care and encourage use of an AAP at school.
Barriers identified by Swedish school nurses in giving information about testicular cancer and testicular self-examination to adolescent males.	The purpose of this study was to investigate to what extent school nurses in Sweden inform adolescent men about testicular cancer (TC) and testicular self-examination (TSE). A questionnaire was completed by 129 school nurses from 29 randomly selected municipalities. All respondents were women, with a mean age of 42 years. The results showed that about 6% of the school nurses had provided information on TC and 9% on TSE; however, the majority was open to presenting such information. The major reason reported for not providing this guidance was insufficient knowledge about the subject. The nurses who had given information were knowledgeable about both TC and TSE and more often informed young men about TC and TSE, whereas those who had only received information about TC were not as likely to provide information about TC or TSE. The results of this study highlight the need to educate school nurses about TC and TSE so they can include this information in their health teaching to adolescent males.
Primary prevention of alcohol and other drug use.	School nurses are uniquely positioned to identify and, thus, intervene in alcohol and other drug (AOD) use by students. There is sure to be resistance to the intervention, and it will come from the student, his or her parents, and--possibly--even from a nurse not thoroughly conversant with the biopsychosocial model of AOD use, and thus unwilling to tackle a very difficult problem. This article deals with application of the biopsychosocial model, and suggests methods of screening for students' AOD use.
Management of tooth avulsion in the school setting.	Tooth avulsion is a widespread problem for school nurses and school health care personnel. Over two million teeth are avulsed every year in the United States, often during school activities. Almost all avulsed teeth can be saved if stored properly and then replanted by a dentist. All of the known methods and devices for the storage, preservation, and transportation of avulsed teeth are reviewed in this article. Based on this review, specific recommendations are made to the school nurse for saving avulsed teeth.
What teachers want to know about students with cancer.	This article reports the results of a survey of classroom teachers in elementary and high schools in the San Francisco Bay Area. The teachers were asked to respond to questions about their informational needs and concerns related to students in their classroom who were diagnosed with cancer or receiving cancer treatment. Findings indicated that classroom teachers perceive themselves to be ill prepared to address the needs of the student with cancer. Specific concerns clustered around information deficits regarding the students' physiological and physical vulnerability, physical limitations/alterations following treatment, psychological responses to cancer treatment, and peer interactions. Utilizing data from the survey, a conceptual approach and collaborative intervention scheme were developed.
Germ proof your school.	Schools can be made safer from germs by: 1. Reinforcing students' personal health and hygiene practices such as hand washing, proper wound care, timely immunizations, nutritious diet, adequate sleep, reducing long-term stress, regular moderate exercise, and matching wardrobe to the weather; 2. Adherence to health department exclusion/inclusion policies for students who are infected, symptomatic, exposed to infection, or susceptible to infection; 3. Practicing sound environmental hygiene, with particular attention to surface disinfecting and food safety.
Carbohydrate counting for children with diabetes: why, what and how?	Carbohydrates are an important part of a healthful diet. With type 1 or 2 diabetes, balancing insulin or medication with carbs and emphasizing carbs from fruits, vegetables, whole grains and low-fat milk and yogurt is key. Families should learn how to follow a consistent carb meal plan or adjust insulin for carbs to help keep their child's blood glucose close to target levels. The family's RD or healthcare team can help them decide which meal planning method is best for their child.
The role of school nursing in the united states.	Changes in the health care needs of American children over the past two centuries have engendered school health programs. Issues related to the role and responsibilities of school nurses within these programs have existed from the beginning. Current societal pressure for schools to assume even greater responsibility for providing health care has necessitated a precise definition of these roles and responsibilities. The purpose of this article is to review existing literature related to school nursing in this country and to describe the results of a study documenting state mandates for health education programs and the role of nurses within these programs.
Classroom health promotion.	School nurses must broaden their role as health educators and promoters if they are to develop as the key figure in the school health service, argues Julie Johnson. Here she describes her own project to work alongside teachers in class as part of her schools' health education programmes. Time spent in class is more than repaid by improved attendance at medicals and better relations with children, parents and teachers, she believes.
Health interviews. Stepping off the medical treadmill.	Ealing health authority's new school health programme aims to cut out routine--and often unnecessary--medicals for all new primary school entrants. The health interview is a key part of the process of identifying children with health needs for medical examination. The new programme not only releases school nurse time for developing health promotion activities within the core curriculum, writes Carole Mattock. It also acknowledges the important lead role of the school nurse within the school health service.
Coping skills training in a telephone health coaching program for youth at risk for type 2 diabetes.	The purpose of this article is to describe components of a health coaching intervention based on coping skills training delivered via telephone. This intervention was provided to urban adolescents at risk for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), reinforcing a school-based curriculum designed to promote a healthy lifestyle and prevent T2DM.
How may the school nurse use data effectively?	Consistent with their colleagues in other health care settings, school nurses function in a data-driven society. Collecting, analyzing, and sharing data with stakeholders are critical responsibilities for both improving school nursing practice and interpreting its importance to others. School nurses have unique opportunities to collect and use data in a variety of capacities affecting the health and education of children and adolescents. Moving into data-driven practice offers exciting surprises--and demands abilities to identify questions, understand data limitations, create and implement performance improvement programs, and use findings for evidence-based practice and advocacy.
Adolescent suicide prevention in a school setting: use of a gatekeeper program.	Suicide is a major public health problem. Nationally, suicide is the third leading cause of death for adolescents. The purpose of this quality improvement project was to initiate and evaluate a gatekeeper suicide-prevention program within a local school system targeting faculty and staff without a medical or psychology background who interact regularly with middle- and high-school students. Following the implementation of this program, evaluation of increased knowledge related to adolescent suicide prevention was completed. All participants completed a pretest and posttest, and results indicate that the staff members' knowledge about identification of risk factors, behavioral responses to suicidal students, and knowledge of community resources were increased. This project highlights the need for planned and sustainable education and training for faculty and school staff who regularly interact with adolescents. Additionally, the importance of continued monitoring, training, and advocating for suicide prevention programming is noted.
Health considerations for children with congenital heart disease in school: part 1.	School participation for children with congenital heart disease (CHD) can be challenging. Despite advances in treatment that have increased survival to adulthood and decreased morbidity, concerns remain about their health and safety in the school environment. This article, the first in a two-part series, provides an overview of the health issues involving school-age children with CHD. School nurses are in a unique position to advocate for the child's health care needs in the school setting, facilitate communication with the health care team, educate school personnel, and participate in the individualized educational planning process.
Adaptation and feasibility of a communication intervention for Mexican immigrant mothers and children in a school setting.	Children of Mexican immigrants are exposed to multiple ecological risks that heighten their likelihood of experiencing depressive symptoms. In previous studies, affirming parent-child communication has been found to be protective against depressive symptoms in Hispanic youth. Interventions focused on enhancing communication between parents and youth have the possibility of strengthening protective factors for children. The aims of this study were to (1) adapt an evidence-based parent-child communication intervention (Mission Possible) for cultural relevance for low-income, low-literacy Mexican immigrant mothers and their children and (2) assess feasibility of delivering the adapted intervention in a school setting. Adaptation took place in a series of focus groups of mother-child dyads. The revised intervention was delivered to 27 mother-child dyads in two elementary schools. Feasibility was supported by high participant satisfaction, 80% attendance rate, and 75% retention rate. This preliminary work suggests strategies for school nurses to partner with immigrant families and outlines a potential intervention that expands the school nursing role. 
Reducing children's exposure to school bus diesel exhaust in one school district in North Carolina.	Children who are exposed to diesel exhaust from idling school buses are at increased risk of asthma exacerbation, decreased lung function, immunologic reactions, leukemia, and increased susceptibility to infections. Policies and initiatives that aim to protect school children from the harmful effects of exposure to diesel exhaust range from general environmental air quality standards to more specific legislation that targets diesel exhaust near school children. School nurse standards of practice specify that school nurses should attain current knowledge of environmental health concepts, implement environmental health strategies, and advocate for environmental health principles. This article provides a description of the professional responsibilities of school nurses in protecting children from harmful environmental exposures, provides an overview of legislative initiatives intended to protect school children from diesel exhaust exposure, and summarizes one school district's effort to reduce diesel exhaust exposure among school children. 
Management of severe food allergy in the school setting.	Almost everyone responsible for the care of children will be dealing with food allergies. More children and adolescents die annually from food-induced anaphylaxis than from insect stings. Studies show that the majority of accidental ingestions resulting in death occur at school. This clearly indicates the need for school health care systems to develop a mechanism to deal with such medical emergencies. Education and planning are key to school management of food allergy.
Management of ADHD in the school setting--a case study.	This article describes one case study, reviews common therapies for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), and presents specific approaches a school nurse may take in addressing the symptoms of ADHD. Use of a conceptual model provides the framework to interpret data and proposed nursing therapies.
A review for school nursing professionals: adolescent depression.	Adolescent depression occurs within various developmental, social, and biologic contexts, and is manifested by traditional depressive symptoms such as fatigue, loss of interest in daily activities, weight changes, sleep disturbances, sad moods, difficulty with concentration, behavioral agitation or lethargy, feelings of worthlessness, and recurrent thoughts of death. Depressed adolescents may combine these symptoms with certain additional behaviors such as academic deterioration, substance abuse, sexual activity, somatic complaints, eating disorders, conduct disorders, and other risk-taking behaviors. School nurses can play a central role in the prevention, assessment, referral, and follow-up care of this significant adolescent health problem.
Caring for the child with Down syndrome.	This article reviews the etiology, treatment, and prognosis of Down syndrome. Effects of Down syndrome on growth and development, specific physiologic manifestations, and implications for school-based practice are discussed.
Anaphylaxis at school.	Anaphylaxis is a life-threatening allergic reaction. It can occur after insect stings or food intake in susceptible children and adolescents while at school. The respiratory, cutaneous, gastrointestinal, and cardiovascular systems are often affected, and prompt treatment with injected epinephrine may be life saving. It is important for school nurses to be familiar with the early recognition, prompt treatment, and prevention of anaphylaxis.
