Use of mental health services by youths in public sectors of care.	The present paper examined the lifetime rates of mental health service use in a representative sample of youths identified as receiving services in at least one sector of care in a publicly funded service system of a large, metropolitan area. Service use was examined in relation to age, gender, mental health diagnostic status, and service sector involvement. Participants were 1706 youths ages 6-17 years who were active in at least one of the following service sectors: alcohol and drug services, child welfare, juvenile justice, mental health, and special education services for serious emotional disturbance. Structured service use and diagnostic interviews were administered to youths and their caregivers. High lifetime rates of mental health service use were found. Eighty-seven percent of the sample used at least one outpatient service, 45% used at least one inpatient service, and 71% reported use of a school-based service. Youths involved with the mental health and special education sectors had the highest rates of service use. In contrast, youths enumerated from the juvenile justice system tended to have the lowest rates of use. Additional research is needed to refine our understanding of the factors associated with the observed patterns of service use.
Including students with moderate and severe intellectual disabilities in school extracurricular and community recreation activities.	We conducted an online statewide survey of teachers of students with moderate and severe intellectual disabilities to determine the extent to which their students were included in school extracurricular and community recreation activities. For the 252 teacher respondents who indicated that their primary caseload consisted of students with significant intellectual disabilities, we report the numbers of students participating in school and community activities and the primary type of support students required to participate in each activity. Finally, we identify implications for practitioners who want to increase the participation of students with significant disabilities in school and community activities.
Impact of School-Based Health Center use on academic outcomes.	The purpose of this study was twofold: (1) to examine the effects of School-Based Health Center (SBHC) use on academic outcomes for high school students, using a well-controlled, longitudinal model, and (2) to examine whether SBHC medical and mental health service use differentially impacts academic outcomes.
School-located immunization programs: do parental preferences predict behavior?	Little is known about parental attitudes regarding school-located immunization programs and their effect on program participation behaviors.
HIV prevalence among high school learners - opportunities for schools-based HIV testing programmes and sexual reproductive health services.	Young girls in sub Saharan Africa are reported to have higher rates of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection compared to boys in the same age group. Knowledge of HIV status amongst high schools learners provides an important gateway to prevention and treatment services. This study aimed at determining the HIV prevalence and explored the feasibility of HIV testing among high school learners.
Does visiting the school health room teach appropriate or inappropriate use of health services.	This study examines the school health room visiting behavior, over two school years, of a random sample (N = 671) of urban children, grades K-5. Excluding eight students who visited regularly for medication (and who alone accounted for 25 per cent of all visits), 94 per cent of the students made at least one visit. Girls visited more frequently than boys (5.1 visits/year vs 4.1 visits/year). Girls were more likely to be in the frequent visitor group (P = 0.01); to have presented five or more different complaints (P = 0.02); and to have visited for stomachache (P less than or equal to 0.001). These sex differences were observed as early as first grade. Almost 58 per cent of the variance in visiting in the second year was predicted by frequency of visiting in the first. These data raise questions about the influence of the school in either reinforcing or modifying the health services utilization behavior of individuals.
Patterns of ICD-9 diagnoses among adolescents using school-based clinics: diagnostic categories by school level and gender.	Understanding utilization patterns in school clinics is important in discerning potential health outcomes among adolescents. This study reports on high-middle school and gender differences in ICD-9 diagnostic codes for students using Baltimore school clinics in the academic year 1989-90.
