Effects of Schwann cell secreted factors on PC12 cell neuritogenesis and survival.	We have used PC12 cells to examine the effects of factors secreted by Schwann cells that promote cell survival and neurite outgrowth, and hence are likely candidates for promoting neuronal regeneration. RT-PCR showed that primary Schwann cells produced a range of neurotrophins, excluding NT3, but this profile was different from either of two cell lines SCTM41 or PVGSCSV40T, or forskolin-expanded Schwann cells. The effects of Schwann cell conditioned media on neurite outgrowth was tested against a range of factors, and showed clear neuritogenic effects. Of the factors tested, only NGF had a significant response on neuritogenesis. Western blotting for neurofilaments showed that primary Schwann cells induced a strong response close to that of NGF. The Trk tyrosine kinase inhibitor K252a did not block the neuritogenic effects of primary Schwann cells. In contrast, K252a blocked both NGF and the SCTM41 cell effects. Schwann cell conditioned media also enhanced PC12 cell survival. Again, in contrast with NGF or SCTM41 cells, the primary Schwann cell effect was Trk tyrosine kinase independent. The Schwann cell conditioned medium contains a protein factor (greater than 12 kDa and broken down by trypsin treatment) with remarkable thermal stability (unaffected at 95 degrees C for 15 min) and the ability to bind heparin. Our results provide clear evidence that Schwann cells produce factors other than those already known to stimulate a neural phenotype in PC12 cells, and which thus have potential regeneration enhancing effects.
Trophic responsiveness of purified postnatal and adult rat retinal ganglion cells.	Central neurons lose the ability for axonal re-growth during development and typically do not regenerate their axons following axotomy once they become mature unless given a growth-permissive environment i.e. peripheral nerve graft. In the present study, the growth responsiveness of purified retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) at different ages to neurotrophic factors and Schwann cell (SC)-secreted factors were examined directly. The purity of adult RGCs was 97% as assessed by retrograde labelling with 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole. The stability of cultures were demonstrated by long-term survival (30 days) in medium contained brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) and forskolin (F) (BCF). RGCs from postnatal (P) (P0, P4, P8, P21) and adult (P90) rats showed decreasing levels of survival and neuritogenesis when grown in BCF. In contrast, the opposite was observed in SC-conditioned medium (CM)-treated P0-P8 RGCs which were increasingly responsive. SCCM induced maximal neurite outgrowth in P8 RGCs via the activation of extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2). Inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase-Erk1/2 signaling using an Erk1/2-specific inhibitor (UO126) abolished SCCM-induced Erk1/2 phosphorylation and neuritogenesis completely. Although both SCCM and BCF failed to sustain the same levels of growth in P21 or P90 cultures as observed in P8 cultures, SCCM promoted higher survival and neuritogenesis than BCF-treated adult RGCs. This study is the first report of adult rat RGC purification and demonstrates that mature RGCs need multiple factors for survival and neurite outgrowth.
