Sialic acid contributes to generation of ectopic spontaneous discharges in rats with neuropathic pain.	Ectopic spontaneous discharges (ESD) of teased myelinated fibers were recorded from the sciatic nerve proximal to the site of 'chronic constriction nerve injury' in the rat. Ca(2+), Mg(2+), Mn(2+), Ni(2+), La(3+) and some positively charged organic compounds (hexamethonium and poly-lysine) when applied topically to the injured site abolished or significantly reduced the rate of ESD. After enzymatic removal of sialic acid by neuraminidase (2 units/ml), the ESD was silenced in 11, reduced in four and unchanged in four of 19 fibers. However, divalent cations failed to depress the reappeared ESD evoked by 4-aminopyridine in the desialylated silenced fibers. Moreover, the mean incidence of ESD was significantly reduced after neuraminidase treatment. These results indicate that an increase in negative charges on the external membrane surface of injured neuron caused by sialylation is a key factor in ESD generation.
NGF and GDNF ameliorate the increase in ATF3 expression which occurs in dorsal root ganglion cells in response to peripheral nerve injury.	Activating transcription factor-3 (ATF3) is a member of the ATF/CREB transcription factor superfamily and is induced in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells after nerve injury. In order to study the regulation of ATF3, we have examined the effect of nerve growth factor (NGF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) on ATF3 expression. In untreated rats, sciatic nerve transection induced ATF3 immunoreactivity in 82% of L4 DRG cells at 14 days after axotomy. Intrathecal delivery of NGF or GDNF for 2 weeks commencing immediately after injury reduced the ATF3 expression to 35 and 23% of DRG cells, respectively. Cell size analysis indicated that NGF had protected a population of mainly small- to medium-sized cells, but that the GDNF had protected a population of both small and large cells. This effect was confirmed by double labelling for P2X(3), CGRP and 200 kDa neurofilament, markers for small peptide-poor cells, peptide-rich cells and large cells, respectively. Thus GDNF reduced the percentage of ATF3-immunoreactive P2X(3) cells from 70 to 4%, and the percentage of ATF3-immunoreactive neurofilament cells from 63 to 24%. NGF was less effective than GDNF in reducing ATF3 expression in these cell types, but reduced the percentage of ATF3-immunoreactive CGRP cells from 10% to < 1%. These results show that ATF3 expression in specific populations of DRG cells can be modulated by exogenous supplementation of specific trophic factors, and suggest that ATF3 expression may normally be induced by the loss of target-derived NGF and GDNF.
Recovery of mechanoreception at the initial stage of regeneration of injured sciatic nerve in rats in conditions of central axotomy of sensory neurons.	The ability of injured afferents of the rat sciatic nerve to regenerate in conditions of damage to their connections with the central nervous system (CNS) as a result of extensive rhizotomy was studied. Recording of spike activity from single nerve fibers demonstrated that rhizotomy, performed simultaneously with nerve injury, had virtually no effect on the initiation of regenerative processes in sensory nerve fibers. The first clear signs of reinnervation of the skin of the foot by decentralized nerve fibers was seen 30 days after nerve injury, which agrees with data obtained in standard conditions, i.e., without rhizotomy. Decentralization of sensory neurons was found to lead to increases in the threshold of perception of a mechanical stimulus in intact and regenerating receptors. However, regenerating receptors showed a significantly more marked decrease in stimulus sensitivity.
Nociceptor-specific gene deletion using heterozygous NaV1.8-Cre recombinase mice.	NaV1.8 is a voltage-gated sodium channel expressed only in a subset of sensory neurons of which more than 85% are nociceptors. In order to delete genes in nociceptive neurons, we generated heterozygous transgenic mice expressing Cre recombinase under the control of the NaV1.8 promoter. Functional Cre recombinase expression replicated precisely the expression pattern of NaV1.8. Cre expression began at embryonic day 14 in small diameter neurons in dorsal root, trigeminal and nodose ganglia, but was absent in non-neuronal or CNS tissues into adulthood. Sodium channel subtypes were normal in isolated DRG neurons. Pain behaviour in response to mechanical or thermal stimuli, and in acute, inflammatory and neuropathic pain was also normal. These data demonstrate that the heterozygous NaV1.8-Cre mouse line is a useful tool to analyse the effects of deleting floxed genes on pain behaviour.
Comparison of five different rat models of peripheral nerve injury.	Described here is a comparison of five peripheral sciatic nerve injury models in rats which all result in various degrees of neuropathic pain symptoms. They are the chronic constriction injury (CCI), the spinal nerve ligation (SNL), the partial sciatic ligation (PSL), the tibial and sural transection (TST), and the complete sciatic transection (CST) model. Behavioral testing was performed on these models over a 56-day period under strict experimental conditions to minimise variability between the surgical models and to allow for an accurate evaluation of the sensory deficits produced by each model. Overall, all five models of neuropathic pain produced signs of allodynia and hyperalgesia to various stimuli. However, the duration and magnitude of the evoked responses varied considerably between the different models.
Electrical stimulation based on chronaxie reduces atrogin-1 and myoD gene expressions in denervated rat muscle.	Denervation induces muscle fiber atrophy and changes in the gene expression rates of skeletal muscle. Electrical stimulation (ES) is a procedure generally used to treat denervated muscles in humans. This study evaluated the effect of ES based on chronaxie and rheobase on the expression of the myoD and atrogin-1 genes in denervated tibialis anterior (TA) muscle of Wistar rats. Five groups were examined: (1) denervated (D); (2) D+ES; (3) sham denervation; (4) normal (N); and (5) N+ES. Twenty muscle contractions were stimulated every 48 h using surface electrodes. After 28 days, ES significantly decreased the expression of myoD and atrogin-1 in D+ES compared to the D group. However, ES did not prevent muscle-fiber atrophy after denervation. Thus, ES based on chronaxie values and applied to denervated muscles using surface electrodes, as normally used in human rehabilitation, was able to reduce the myoD and atrogin-1 gene expressions, which are related to muscular growth and atrophy, respectively. The results of this study provide new information for the treatment of denervated skeletal muscle using surface ES.
Expression of G protein beta subunits in rat skeletal muscle after nerve injury: Implication in the regulation of neuregulin signaling.	Tight regulation of gene transcription is critical in muscle development as well as during the formation and maintenance of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). We previously demonstrated that the transcription of G protein beta1 (Gbeta1) is enhanced by treatment of cultured myotubes with neuregulin (NRG), a trophic factor that plays an important role in neural development. In the current study, we report that the transcript levels of Gbeta1 and Gbeta2 subunits in skeletal muscle are up-regulated following sciatic nerve injury or blockade of nerve activity. These observations prompted us to explore the possibility that G protein subunits regulate NRG-mediated signaling and gene transcription. We showed that overexpression of Gbeta1 or Gbeta2 in COS7 cells attenuates NRG-induced extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 activation, whereas suppression of Gbeta2 expression in C2C12 myotubes enhances NRG-mediated ERK1/2 activation and c-fos transcription. These results suggest that expression of Gbeta protein negatively regulates NRG-stimulated gene transcription in cultured myotubes. Taken together, our observations provide evidence that specific heterotrimeric G proteins regulate NRG-mediated signaling and gene transcription during rat muscle development.
Olfactory ensheathing cells enhance Schwann cell-mediated anatomical and functional repair after sciatic nerve injury in adult rats.	Sciatic nerve injury results in axon damage, muscle degeneration, and loss of function. We compared the potential of Schwann cell (SC), olfactory ensheathing cell (OEC), or mixed SC/OEC transplants for anatomical and functional restoration after adult rat sciatic nerve transection. The cells were seeded into a 20mm long macroporous poly(dl-lactide-co-glycolide) acid conduit and grafted between the sciatic nerve stumps. Some rats received a conduit without cells (controls) or an autologous nerve graft, the clinical standard of care. Compared with SC transplants, axon regeneration was 25% less with OEC transplants but 28% more with SC/OEC transplants. Gastrocnemius muscle restoration was similar with a SC or OEC transplant and 35% better with a SC/OEC transplant. With SC transplants, motor and sensory function recovery and electrophysiological outcomes were similar as with OEC transplants and 33% better with SC/OEC transplants. Compared with the mixed SC/OEC transplants, axon regeneration was 21% better and gastrocnemius muscle restoration was 18% better with autologous peripheral nerve transplants, but these improvements did not translate into increased function and electrophysiological outcomes. Our results revealed that OEC synergistically improve SC mediated sciatic nerve repair. The data emphasized the promise of SC/OEC transplants as artificial nerves for peripheral nerve repair. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Understanding olfactory ensheathing glia and their prospect for nervous system repair.
Assessment of sensory thresholds and nociceptive fiber growth after sciatic nerve injury reveals the differential contribution of collateral reinnervation and nerve regeneration to neuropathic pain.	Following traumatic peripheral nerve injury reinnervation of denervated targets may be achieved by regeneration of injured axons and by collateral sprouting of neighbor undamaged axons. Experimental models commonly use sciatic nerve injuries to assess nerve regeneration and neuropathic pain, but behavioral tests for evaluating sensory recovery often disregard the pattern of hindpaw innervation. This may lead to confounding attribution of recovery of sensory responses to improvement in sciatic nerve regeneration instead of collateral reinnervation by the undamaged saphenous nerve. We used a standardized methodology to assess the separate contribution of collateral and regenerative skin reinnervation on sensory responses. Section and suture of the sciatic nerve induced loss of sensibility in the lateral and central areas of the injured paw, but nociceptive responses rapidly recovered by expansion of the intact saphenous innervation territory. We used electronic Von Frey and Plantar test devices to measure mechanical and thermal withdrawal thresholds in specific sites of the injured paw: lateral site innervated by the sciatic nerve, medial site that remained innervated by the saphenous nerve, and central site originally innervated by the sciatic nerve but affected by saphenous sprouting. After sciatic section, signs of early hyperalgesia developed in medial and central paw areas due to saphenous sprouting and expansion. The regenerating sciatic nerve fibers reached the paw at 3-4weeks and a late mechanical hyperalgesia was observed at the lateral site. Immunohistochemical staining of sensory fibers innervating the medial and lateral areas revealed a different pattern of skin reinnervation. Hypersensitivity in the intact saphenous nerve area was paralleled by early fiber sprout growth in the subepidermal plexus, but not entering the epidermis. On the other side, late sciatic hyperalgesia was accompanied by gradual skin reinnervation after 4weeks. The standardization of algesimetry testing in sciatic nerve injury models, as proposed in this study, provides a suitable model for studying in parallel neuropathic pain and sensory nerve regeneration processes. Our results also indicate that collateral sprouting and axonal regeneration contribute differently in the initiation and maintenance of neuropathic pain. 
