Peripheral nerve soluble esterases are spontaneously reactivated after inhibition by paraoxon: implications for a new definition of neuropathy target esterase.	Soluble extracts of chicken peripheral nerve contain detectable amounts of phenyl valerate esterase (PVase) activity (about 2000 nmol/min per g of fresh tissue). More than 95% of this activity is inhibited in assays where substrate has been added to a preincubated mixture of tissue with the non-neuropathic organophosphorus compound (OP) paraoxon (O,O'-diethyl p-nitrophenyl phosphate): residual activity includes soluble neuropathy target esterase (S-NTE) which, by definition, is considered resistant to long-term progressive (covalent) inhibition by paraoxon. However we have previously shown that paraoxon strongly interacts with S-NTE so interfering with its sensitivity to other inhibitors. We now show that, surprisingly, removal of paraoxon by ultrafiltration ('P' tissue) in order to avoid such an interference results in the reappearance of about 65% of total original soluble PVase activity which is inhibited in the presence of this OP. Although a purely reversible non-progressive inhibition might be suspected, kinetic analysis data show a time-progressive inhibition which suggests that such PVase(s) covalently bind paraoxon. Also a time-dependent recovery due to spontaneous reactivation of the PVase activity was observed after dilution of the inhibitor. Gel filtration chromatography of 'P' tissue in Sephacryl S-300 shows that the reactivated activity is associated with proteins of about 100-kDa mass which include S-NTE and an, as yet, unknown number of other PVases. The implications of these findings in the definition of NTE in a target tissue for the so-called organophosphorus-induced delayed polyneuropathy (OPIDP) are discussed.
Reduced hyperalgesia induced by nerve injury, but not by inflammation in mice lacking protein kinase C gamma isoform.	Protein kinase C is one of protein kinases which might be involved in the nerve injury- or inflammation-induced hyperalgesia. The present study was designed to investigate the hyperalgesia with thermal paw-withdrawal test induced by sciatic nerve ligation or by intraplantar injection of a complete Freund's adjuvant solution in protein kinase C gamma knockout and its wild-type mice. Either sciatic nerve ligation or intraplantar injection of a complete Freund's adjuvant caused a marked decrease of the paw-withdrawal latency only on the ipsilateral, but not on the contralateral side of the paw in wild-type mice. This ipsilateral hyperalgesia induced by sciatic nerve ligation was significantly attenuated in protein kinase C gamma knockout mice. On the other hand, the ipsilateral hyperalgesia induced by complete Freund's adjuvant remained about the same in protein kinase C gamma knockout mice as in wild-type mice. The results indicate that protein kinase C gamma is involved in the development of the thermal hyperalgesia induced by nerve ligation, but not by complete Freund's adjuvant-induced inflammation.
Neuropathy in diabetic mice overexpressing human aldose reductase and effects of aldose reductase inhibitor.	The present study was designed to examine the effect of aldose reductase (AR) overexpression on the development of diabetic neuropathy by using mice transgenic for human AR. At 8 weeks of age, transgenic mice (Tg) and non-transgenic littermates (Lm) were made diabetic with streptozotocin. After 8 weeks of untreated diabetes, plasma glucose levels and the reduction in body weight were similar between the groups of diabetic animals. Despite the comparable levels of hyperglycaemia, levels of sorbitol and fructose were significantly greater in the peripheral nerve of diabetic Tg than in diabetic Lm (both P < 0.01). Ouabain sensitive Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity was similarly decreased in both diabetic Tg and Lm. Protein kinase C activity in the sciatic nerve membrane fraction was unaffected by diabetes in Lm, but was reduced by nearly 40% in the diabetic Tg. Although both groups of diabetic animals exhibited a significant decrease in tibial nerve motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV), this decrease was significantly more severe (P < 0.01) in diabetic Tg than in diabetic Lm. Consistent with these findings, nerve fibre atrophy was significantly more severe in diabetic Tg than in diabetic Lm (P < 0.01). These findings implicate increased polyol pathway activity in the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy. In support of this hypothesis, treating diabetic Tg with an aldose reductase inhibitor (WAY121-509, 4 mg/kg/day) for 8 weeks significantly prevented the accumulation of sorbitol, the decrease in MNCV and the increased myelinated fibre atrophy in diabetic Tg.
3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase isomerase (3beta-HSD) activity in the rat sciatic nerve: kinetic analysis and regulation by steroids.	We have shown that progesterone (PROG) has a stimulatory effect on myelin formation after sciatic nerve injury. PROG is synthesized from pregnenolone (PREG) by the enzyme 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase isomerase (3beta-HSD). At the occasion of the 15th International Symposium of the Journal of the Steroid Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, we presented some of our recent results demonstrating, expression and activity of the enzyme 3beta-HSD in the rat sciatic nerve. We determined the kinetic properties of 3beta-HSD and its regulation by PROG and estradiol. The expression of 3beta-HSD protein was assessed by Western-blot analysis, and the 3beta-HSD activity was evaluated by incubating homogenates with [3H]-PREG as substrate and NAD(+) as cofactor. Levels of steroids formed were calculated either by extrapolation of the relationship between the tritiated peaks obtained by thin layer chromatography (TLC) and the initial amount of PREG, or by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) determination. A rapid increase in PROG formation was found between 0 and 50min of incubation and no significant change was observed between 1 and 4h. The calculated K(m) value was close to the values obtained for the 3beta-HSD types I and IV isoforms. Trilostane caused a potent inhibition of the rate of conversion of PREG to PROG. When we tested the effects of progesterone and estradiol on 3beta-HSD activity, a significant inhibition was obtained.
Enhanced activation of axonally transported stress-activated protein kinases in peripheral nerve in diabetic neuropathy is prevented by neurotrophin-3.	The objective was to determine whether stress-activated protein kinases (SAPKs) mediated the transfer of diabetes-induced stress signals from the periphery to somata of sensory neurons. Thus, we characterized axonal transport of SAPKs in peripheral nerve, studied any alteration in streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic rats and examined effects of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) on diabetes-induced events. We demonstrate that c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 are bidirectionally axonally transported at fast rates in sciatic nerve. In STZ-diabetic rats the relative levels of retrograde axonal transport of phosphorylated (activated) JNK and p38 were raised compared with age-matched controls (all data are in arbitrary units and expressed as fold increase over control: JNK 54-56 kDa isoforms, control 1.0 +/- 0.19, diabetic 2.5 +/- 0.26; p38, control 1.0 +/- 0.09, diabetic 2.9 +/- 0.52; both P < 0.05). Transport of total enzyme levels of JNK and p38 and phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) was not significantly altered and anterograde axonal transport of phosphorylated JNK and p38 was unaffected by diabetes. The transcription factor ATF-2, which is phosphorylated and activated by JNK and p38, also exhibited elevated retrograde axonal transport in STZ-diabetic animals (control 1.0 +/- 0.07, diabetic 3.0 +/- 0.41; P < 0.05). Treatment of STZ-diabetic animals with 5 mg/kg human recombinant NT-3 prevented activation of JNK and p38 in sciatic nerve (phosphorylated JNK, control 1.0 +/- 0.09, diabetic 1.95 +/- 0.35, diabetic + NT-3 1.09 +/- 0.12; P < 0.05 diabetic versus others; phosphorylated p38, control 1.0 +/- 0.16, diabetic 4.7 +/- 0.9, diabetic + NT-3 1.19 +/- 0.18; P < 0.05 diabetic versus others). The results show that JNK and p38 are transported axonally and may mediate the transfer of diabetes-related stress signals, possibly triggered by loss of neurotrophic support, from the periphery to the neuronal soma.
Impaired fast axonal transport in neurons of the sciatic nerves from dystonia musculorum mice.	Dystonia musculorum (dt) mice suffer from a severe sensory neuropathy caused by mutations in the gene encoding the cytoskeletal cross-linker protein dystonin/bullous pemphigoid antigen 1 (Bpag1). Loss of function of dystonin/Bpag1 within neurons leads to a loss in the maintenance of cytoskeletal organization and to the development of focal axonal swellings prior to death of the neuron. In the present study, we demonstrate that neurons within the sciatic nerves of dt27J mice undergo axonal degeneration as has been previously reported for the dorsal roots. Furthermore, ultrastructural studies reveal a perturbed organization of the neurofilament and microtubule networks within the axons of sciatic nerves in dt27J mice. The disrupted cytoskeletal organization suggested that axonal transport is affected in dt mice. To address this, we assessed fast axonal transport by measuring the rate of accumulation of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) proximal and distal to a surgically introduced ligature on the sciatic nerves of normal and dt27J mice. Our findings demonstrate that axonal transport of AChE in both orthograde and retrograde directions is markedly affected, and allow us to conclude that axonal transport defects do exist in the sciatic nerves of dt27J mice.
Impaired development of the rat perineurium by undernutrition. An enzyme histochemical study.	Enzyme activity of adenosinetriphosphatase, NADH2-tetrazolium reductase and lactate dehydrogenase was studied in the rat perineurium 10, 20, 30, and 90 days post partum. The effect of under-nutrition was shown by a lack of enzyme activity in rats 30 days post partum in contrast to control animals, 30 days also corresponds to the time when, in normal rats, the perineurial diffusion barrier to exogenous macromolecules becomes established. In undernourished rats this diffusion barrier does not appear. At 90 days post partum raised enzyme activities indicate a high metabolic turnover in the perineurium even in animals with undernutrition.
Classification of muscle fiber types based on succinic dehydrogenase and myofibrillar ATPase reactions in normal and randomly reinnervated rat skeletal muscles.	In the normal and randomly reinnervated plantaris muscle of rat staining for succinic dehydrogenase (SDH) activity differentiates three fiber types (A, B and C), staining for myofibrillar adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) differentiates three fiber types (alpha, beta and alpha beta). Here we present our finding type A corresponds to alpha beta fibers, B to beta or alpha beta, C to alpha or alpha beta. In normal soleus muscle both classifications were found to be compatible and B fibers correspond to beta and C to alpha fibers. An exception is the small percent of alpha beta fibers which correspond to B type. In randomly reinnervated soleus muscle changes in ATPase activity are not followed by changes in SDH staining and B fibers correspond to alpha, beta or alpha beta types.
The pro and the active form of matrix metalloproteinase-9 is increased in serum of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.	Pro and active-matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) was measured in sera from patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Guillain-Barre syndome (GBS), and healthy subjects. Both forms of MMP-9 were elevated in sera of ALS and GBS patients, compared with healthy controls. It has been postulated that elevated MMP-9 reflects damage to peripheral nerve and muscle. This possibility was investigated in sera, and tissue extracts of sciatic nerves and muscle from mice 5 and 12 days after axotomy of the sciatic nerve. Pro-MMP-9 was elevated in sera and extracts of damaged nerve and muscle, suggesting such damage may be followed by elevated pro-MM9-9 in sera. Active MMP-9 was only elevated in the sera. However, in situ activation of MMP-9 is tightly regulated and localised, and probably difficult to demonstrate by ELISA, resulting in a short half-life active MMP-9, implying any active MMP-9 in the serum may have a more immediate origin than injured muscle or nerve, for example circulating blood cells.
Axonal transports of tripeptidyl peptidase II in rat sciatic nerves.	Axonal transport of tripeptidyl peptidase II, a putative cholecystokinin inactivating serine peptidase, was examined in the proximal, middle, and distal segments of rat sciatic nerves using a double ligation technique. Enzyme activity significantly increased not only in the proximal segment but also in the distal segment 12-72h after ligation, and the maximal enzyme activity was found in the proximal and distal segments at 72h. Western blot analysis of tripeptidyl peptidase II showed that its immunoreactivities in the proximal and distal segments were 3.1- and 1.7-fold higher than that in the middle segment. The immunohistochemical analysis of the segments also showed an increase in immunoreactive tripeptidyl peptidase II level in the proximal and distal segments in comparison with that in the middle segment, indicating that tripeptidyl peptidase II is transported by anterograde and retrograde axonal flow. The results suggest that tripeptidyl peptidase II may be involved in the metabolism of neuropeptides in nerve terminals or synaptic clefts.
Effects of axotomy on the cholinesterase and carbonic anhydrase activities of axons in the proximal and distal stumps of rabbit sciatic nerves: a temporal study.	The temporal changes in transected sciatic nerves of rabbits were studied using recently developed histochemical techniques for discriminating between sensory and motor axons. A segment of the nerve was removed to inhibit spontaneous regeneration across the gap. Staining characteristics of the proximal and distal nerve stumps were studied at 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, and 35 days following axotomy and compared with control sciatic nerves. In the control and test nerves, subpopulations of myelinated sensory axons were identified histochemically by carbonic anhydrase (CA) staining, and a subset of alpha motor axons were visualized by cholinesterase (CE) staining. Axon staining patterns were reciprocal; i.e., sensory axons were CA-positive and CE-negative, whereas motor axons were CE-positive and CA-negative. Histochemical activities persisted at day 35 after axotomy in the proximal stump and until day 9 after axotomy in the distal stump. This implies that these techniques may aid in both immediate and delayed primary nerve repair. With time, there is buildup of scar tissue adding to the proximal and distal stumps. Therefore, sections for demonstrating sensory and motor axons must be taken progressively further back from the nerve stump ends. Histochemical axon typing indicated that sensory axons regenerated earlier and to a greater degree than motor axons in the developing neuroma. Use of both the carbonic anhydrase and cholinesterase staining methods is more accurate than either technique alone as an adjunct for examining normal and injured peripheral nerves.
The use of protease inhibitors in experimental allergic neuritis.	In experimental allergic neuritis (EAN) break-down of myelin is attributed to macrophages, which among other factors contain and secrete proteases. In vitro studies have shown that cathepsin D, an acidic aspartyl endopeptidase, and plasmin can degrade myelin proteins. In order to elucidate a potential therapeutic effect of protease inhibitors we treated Lewis rats, immunized with bovine peripheral nervous system myelin, with epsilon-amino-caproic acid (EACA) or pepstatin. EACA or pepstatin was administered twice daily by intraperitoneal injection beginning on day 6 postimmunization or from the onset of disease (on day 12) through day 24. Compared to saline-treated controls, animals treated with either of the inhibitors showed delayed development of clinical signs and electrophysiological abnormalities. Maximal severity and the further course of disease, however, were not different in control and treated groups. Immunohistological evaluation of sciatic nerve specimens on day 24 postimmunization showed equal numbers of cells positive for ED1 (macrophages) and cathepsin D in all animal groups. There was also no difference in the spontaneous proteolytic activity of the sciatic nerve homogenates at pH 2.8, 5.0, and 7.4. Incubation of the homogenates with pepstatin, however, significantly reduced proteolytic activity at pH 2.8 and 5.0, while EACA had no effect at any pH tested. These results imply that treatment to limit the infiltration of cathepsin D-positive cells or to reduce the induction or activity of cathepsin D may provide a therapeutic avenue for treating inflammatory demyelination of the peripheral nervous system.
A highly specific aldose reductase inhibitor, ethyl 1-benzyl-3-hydroxy-2(5H)-oxopyrrole-4-carboxylate, and its congeners.	Ethyl 1-benzyl-3-hydroxy-2(5H)-oxopyrrole-4-carboxylate (1, EBPC) is a potent and specific inhibitor of aldose reductase. It was greater than 4000X more potent in its inhibition of rat lens aldose reductase than the closely related rat or pig kidney aldehyde reductase, thus making it the most selective inhibitor of a NADPH-dependent carbonyl reductase identified to date. In agreement with this observation, it was found to be a highly potent inhibitor of aldose reductase from rat sciatic nerve with greater than 98% inhibition at 1 microM, but it was practically devoid of activity against aldehyde reductases from rat liver and brain. Inhibition of aldose reductase was mixed type for glyceraldehyde (Ki = 8.0 x 10(-8) M) and noncompetitive for NADPH (Ki = 1.70 x 10(-8) M). Its potential as an in vitro tool to quantitate monomeric aldo/keto reductase activities in crude tissue extracts is presented. Structure-activity relationships emerging from synthetic modifications of EBPC are discussed. Several modifications were found to be active in vitro against aldose reductase from human placenta and in vivo in a rat model of diabetic complications, but none was more potent than EBPC.
Ornithine decarboxylase activity in dorsal root ganglia of regenerating frog sciatic nerve.	Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity was studied in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of regenerating frog sciatic nerve. There was a significant increase in activity two days after a crush lesion of the nerve 2.5 cm distal to the DRG. The increase reached a maximum after 7 days, then declined but remained above control levels for at least 9 days. An endoneural injection of vinblastine, a potent inhibitor of retrograde and orthograde axonal transport, between the DRG and the crush inhibited the increase in ODC. In contrast, injections of vinblastine into undamaged nerves failed to affect ODC. The increase in ODC and also the regenerative properties of the nerve could be prevented by daily i.p. injections of alpha-difluoromethyl ornithine. We suggest that a signal is formed at the site of injury in the sciatic nerve. This signal is conveyed to the DRG by retrograde axonal transport where it initiates the events leading to an increase in ODC. This increase appears to be necessary for the regeneration of sensory fibers in the frog sciatic nerve.
A calcium-activated neutral protease in the frog nervous system which degrades rapidly transported axonal proteins.	A Ca2+-activated protease (CANP) was prepared from a soluble extract of the frog nervous system and separated from an endogenous high-molecular weight inhibitor by ion exchange chromatography. Its proteolytic action was tested on rapidly transported [3H]leucine-labelled proteins from sensory axons of the sciatic nerve. The enzyme was activated at neutral pH by Ca2+ at millimolar level, and was inhibited by leupeptin and the endogenous inhibitor. Its most pronounced degradative action was exerted towards two prominent rapidly transported peaks corresponding to 82 kDa and 90 kDa proteins. Proteolysis was accompanied by the appearance of mainly 16 kDa degradation products. When newly synthesized soluble proteins of the spinal dorsal ganglia were used as substrates, the presence of CANP resulted in degradation of proteins in a broad molecular-weight range (40-200 kDa).
The axonal transport of dipeptidyl aminopeptidase II, angiotensin-converting enzyme and other peptidases in rat sciatic nerves.	The axonal transport of four peptidases with different subcellular localizations were examined in rat sciatic nerves by the double ligation technique. At 2 days after ligation, rapid retrograde axonal transport of the activity of dipeptidyl aminopeptidase II (a lysosomal enzyme), angiotensin-converting enzyme and leucyl aminopeptidase (membrane-bound enzymes), was found in the segment distal to the proximal ligation. On the other hand, prolyl endopeptidase (a cytosolic enzyme) showed neither anterograde nor retrograde rapid axonal transport. These results indicate that lysosomal and membrane-bound peptidases are transported retrogradely in rat sciatic nerves.
Axoplasmic transport of monoamine oxidase after ischemia.	Rabbit spinal cords were subjected to 40 min of ischemia by abdominal aorta occlusion followed by 1 or 4 days of recirculation. Axoplasmic transport of mitochondria was investigated by monitoring the accumulation of monoamine oxidase activity (MAO, EC 1.4.3.4) at the proximal and distal ligatures placed on sciatic nerves. Within 1 day following ischemia, MAO accumulation was reduced to 45% and 34% at the proximal and distal ties, respectively. Within 4 days after ischemia, MAO accumulation was depressed still further to 22% in either direction. The substantial decrease in transport velocity appears to be the immediate cause for the observed decrease in MAO accumulation in sciatic nerve.
Carbonic anhydrase activity in axon terminals of sensory corpuscles.	The distribution of carbonic anhydrase (CA) activity was studied by electron microscopic histochemistry in rat Pacinian corpuscles, Meissner corpuscles and Merkel cell-neurite complexes using the cobalt bicarbonate method. The distribution of CA activity in these axon terminals was compared to the activity in sciatic nerve axons. An intense enzymatic CA activity was demonstrated in axon terminals of both Pacinian and Meissner corpuscles, while a weak activity was found within the axoplasm of terminals abutting Merkel cells. Some large- and medium-sized axons in sciatic nerves exhibited an intense activity. These findings indicate that large- or medium-diameter sensory axons innervating corpuscular endings have an intense CA activity extending from their somata to their sensory terminals. Axons to Merkel-neurite complexes differ in CA activity from those innervating Meissner and Pacinian corpuscular endings.
Alkaline phosphatase activity in peripheral nerves and endothelial cell cultures in leprosy.	Alkaline phosphatase activity in leprosy nerves was studied. The activity was mainly in blood vessels and was maximum in healthy nerves. Low levels were seen in crush injury. In leprosy lower levels were in BT than LL cases. Endothelial cells (in vitro) released alkpase when infected with live bacilli only. No response was observed with heat killed bacilli.
Time-course of nociceptive disorders induced by chronic loose ligatures of the rat sciatic nerve and changes of the acetylcholinesterase transport along the ligated nerve.	Changes in the axonal transport of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) were studied in the painful mononeuropathy induced by setting 4 loose ligatures around the right sciatic nerve of the rat. Since changes in the axonal transport of AChE can be used to assess axonal degeneration/regeneration, we used this marker to investigate whether the time course of pain-related behavioral disorders observed following chronic constriction injury (CCI) to the sciatic nerve are related to the time course of the regeneration of the injured axons. In addition, a comparison was made between changes in AChE observed in this model of nerve injury and those observed after sciatic nerve crush. The rats were examined for pain-related disorders daily during the first postoperative week then at 7, 14 and 21 days after nerve ligation. The pain-related disorders, only detected from 7 days after ligation, were maximal at 14 days postinjury, and began to lessen at the end of the 3rd postoperative week. Within the first 3 days after loose ligation, the AChE transport dropped to 40% of its normal value, but recovered rapidly during the 3rd week post-surgery, indicating that most of the injured neurons were reconnecting their target cells. Thus, the injury produced by the loose ligatures was registered by the neurons several days before the first nociceptive manifestations of the injury, and the pain-related disorders lasted after most of the re-elongating axons had reconnected their target.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Regulated expression during development and following sciatic nerve injury of mRNAs encoding the receptor tyrosine phosphatase HPTPzeta/RPTPbeta.	Three major isoforms of the receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase HPTPzeta/RPTPbeta (RPTPzeta/beta) have been previously identified, two with identical transmembrane and intracellular catalytic domains that differ by virtue of a long cysteine-free extracellular region, and a soluble proteoglycan called phosphacan that lacks the transmembrane and carboxy-terminal catalytic domains. To determine whether these RPTPzeta/beta variants are produced by alternative mRNA splicing of a common primary transcript, we performed genomic Southern analysis and characterized several rat cDNA and genomic RPTPzeta/beta clones. These studies indicated that the three major transcripts which encode phosphacan and the two RPTPzeta/beta phosphatase variants are encoded by a single gene, and further that additional alternative mRNA splicing is likely to result in the deletion of a 7 amino acid insert from the intracellular juxtamembrane region of both long and short phosphatase isoforms. Simultaneous quantitation of the three major isoforms by RNase protection analysis indicated that the mRNA encoding phosphacan had the highest relative abundance in the CNS while that encoding the short phosphatase isoform was most abundant relative to the other RPTPzeta/beta variants in the PNS. Following peripheral nerve crush, all RPTPzeta/beta mRNAs, including phosphacan and the phosphatase variants with and without the 21 base insert, were significantly induced in the distal segments of the sciatic nerve with a time course that correlated well with the response of Schwann cells to this injury.
Matrix metalloproteinases MMP-2 and MMP-9 in denervated muscle and injured nerve.	Nerve crush or axotomy results in a transient or longterm denervation accompanied by remodelling in nerve, muscle and neuromuscular junctions. These changes include an increased turnover of several extracellular matrix molecules and proliferation of Schwann cells in injured nerves. Given the role of matrix degrading metalloproteinases MMP-2 and MMP-9 (gelatinases-type IV collagenases) in extracellular matrix remodelling, we investigated their regulation and activation in denervated muscles and injured nerves in mice. For this, immunofluorescence using MMP-2 and MMP-9 antibodies was carried concomitantly with gelatin zymography and quantification of gelatinase activity using [3H]-gelatin substrate. Results show that in normal mouse muscles MMP-2 and MMP-9 are localized at the neuromuscular junctions, in Schwann cells and the perineurium of the intramuscular nerves. In denervated mouse muscles, MMP-2 immunolabelling persists at the neuromuscular junctions but decreases in the nerves whereas MMP-9 immunolabelling persists at the neuromuscular junctions but is enhanced in degenerated intramuscular nerves. Denervated muscles did not show any significant change of gelatinolytic activity or expression pattern, while injured nerves exhibited a transient increase of MMP-9 and activation of MMP-2. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that MMP-2 and MMP-9 are expressed at mouse neuromuscular junctions and that their localization and expression pattern appear not to be modified by denervation. Their modulation in injured nerves suggests they are involved in axonal degeneration and regeneration.
