Induction of CB2 receptor expression in the rat spinal cord of neuropathic but not inflammatory chronic pain models.	Cannabinoids have been considered for some time as potent therapeutic agents in chronic pain management. Central and systemic administration of natural, synthetic and endogenous cannabinoids produce antinociceptive and antihyperalgesic effects in both acute and chronic animal pain models. Although much of the existing data suggest that the analgesic effects of cannabinoids are mediated via neuronal CB1 receptors, there is increasing evidence to support a role for peripheral CB2 receptors, which are expressed preferentially on immune cells. As yet, little is known about the central contribution of CB2 in neuropathic pain states. We report here that chronic pain models associated with peripheral nerve injury, but not peripheral inflammation, induce CB2 receptor expression in a highly restricted and specific manner within the lumbar spinal cord. Moreover, the appearance of CB2 expression coincides with the appearance of activated microglia.
Vimentin-dependent spatial translocation of an activated MAP kinase in injured nerve.	How are phosphorylated kinases transported over long intracellular distances, such as in the case of axon to cell body signaling after nerve injury? Here, we show that the MAP kinases Erk1 and Erk2 are phosphorylated in sciatic nerve axoplasm upon nerve injury, concomitantly with the production of soluble forms of the intermediate filament vimentin by local translation and calpain cleavage in axoplasm. Vimentin binds phosphorylated Erks (pErk), thus linking pErk to the dynein retrograde motor via direct binding of vimentin to importin beta. Injury-induced Elk1 activation and neuronal regeneration are inhibited or delayed in dorsal root ganglion neurons from vimentin null mice, and in rats treated with a MEK inhibitor or with a peptide that prevents pErk-vimentin binding. Thus, soluble vimentin enables spatial translocation of pErk by importins and dynein in lesioned nerve.
