Results of surgical treatment of idiopathic developmental stenosis of the lumbar vertebral canal. A review of twenty-seven years' experience.	Between 1948 and 1975 147 patients were treated surgically for developmental stenosis of the lumbar vertebral canal, measurement of the mid-sagittal diameters in the whole area of stenosis being performed in 116 patients. Ninety-two of these patients were followed up for periods varying between one and twenty years. About two-thirds were completely relieved fo symptoms and signs. Sciatica and intermittent claudication were more frequently cured than radicular deficit and lumbago, the latter being the most frequent persisting symptom. A permanent neural deficit as a result of the surgical procedure was noted in two cases. A detailed presentation of the technique, complications and results is given.
An anatomical assessment of the "percutaneous rhizolysis" procedure.	The procedure known as rhizolysis has been claimed to denervate the lumbar zygapophyseal joints. Analysis of the surgical anatomy of the incisions used in the procedure reveals that theoretically they do not interrupt the nerve supply to the zygapophyseal joints. The procedure was performed at six levels in each of three cadavers. Subsequent dissection revealed that at no level was the nerve supply to the zygapophyseal joints interrupted. The writers conclude that denervation of the Zygapophyseal joints cannot be held to be the mechanism of any pain relief that rhizolysis may achieve.
Surgical treatment of radicular sciatica]	The surgical treatment of radicular sciaticas has to be fitted to the patient's mainly functional problem. In every case but the obviously surgical sciaticas due to tumor, surgery and percutaneous techniques must be discussed with regard to the anatomical factors participating in the root compression and the patient tolerance to his pain. The surgical approach is now limited but the disc removal must be extensive. Complications are very rare, especially infectious ones. Failures account for less than 10% in case of good indications and are related to recurrence of disc herniation and to so-called fibrosis. The operative results are to a large extent related to the patient's psychological profile and his active involvement in the treatment.
Appropriateness criteria for surgery improve clinical outcomes in patients with low back pain and/or sciatica.	Prospective, controlled, observational outcome study using clinical, radiographic, and patient/physician-based questionnaire data, with patient outcomes at 12 months follow-up.
Small bowel perforation--an unusual complication of microdiscectomy: a case report.	A 45-year-old woman underwent microdiscectomy for sciatalgia due to prolapsed intravertebral disc between the fifth lumbar and first sacral vertebrae. Post-operatively, she developed abdominal pain and tenderness. Abdominal computerised tomography scan showed evidence of small bowel perforation. She underwent laparotomy and repair of an iatrogenic small bowel injury of the proximal ileum. Small bowel perforation is a rare complication of microdiscectomy and should be considered if abdominal symptoms develop post-operatively.
Extent of fenestration in one-level operations for lateral herniation of the intervertebral disk of the lumbar segment of the spine]	In the years 1969-1986 operations were carried out in 1650 cases of lateral prolapse of the lumbar nucleus pulposus at one level, they accounted for 75% of patients operated on for symptomatic sciatic pains. The operations were done in lateral recumbent position. In 29% of cases it was necessary to extend the typical fenestration by reducing the size of one or two halves of the vertebral arches, and in 12% of cases full hemilaminectomy was done. The most frequent cause of fenestration extension was narrow yellow ligament and massive broad vertebral arches at the level of the prolapsed nucleus, as well as congenital or acquired narrowing of the lateral recess of the vertebral canal. In only 4% of cases the necessity of fenestration extension was due to displacement of the free fragments of the prolapsed nucleus far from the intervertebral space or their falling into the meningeal sac.
Microsurgery of common discal sciatica. Technics and results]	The authors report their own experience of microsurgery for surgical treatment of lumbar disc herniation. Series include 30 cases with a one year of mean follow up. Comparative studies are discussed according to others microsurgical series already published. Good care of peridural fat and gently retraction of the root seem to be main factors for good functional result.
Intraspinal extradural sensory rhizotomy in patients with failure of lumbar disc surgery.	Questionnaires were sent to 60 patients who had undergone an intraspinal extradural sensory rhizotomy after failure of back surgery to assess the efficacy of the procedure. Questionnaires were returned from 47 patients. The operative results were uniformly poor in improving the level of activity of the patient. However, nearly 60% of the patients obtained relief of their pain. Section of only one root, either L-5 or S-1, relieved pain in 50% of the cases. Section of both roots, L-5 and S-1, appeared more effective, since 66% of these patients were relieved of their pain. The technique of performing an intraspinal extradural sensory rhizotomy is discussed in detail.
Effectiveness of conservative and surgical treatment of lumboischiadic syndrome]	Hitherto performed retrospective studies of conservative and surgical treatment of compressive radicular lumboischiadic syndrome did not provide a clear answer to the question which procedure cures the disease more effectively. The reason is that severe types of the disease treated by surgery were compared with therapeutic results of milder forms treated conservatively. The authors compared therefore the effectiveness of both therapeutic procedures in a prospective study with a random selection of patients as regards the therapeutic procedure.
