Esther and Arthur Mork: a "chiropractic love story."	Drs. Esther and Arthur Mork were arrested in Wisconsin for practicing chiropractic without a license. At that time, Wisconsin had a medically-controlled basic science examination that was required before chiropractors could sit for their own licensing board. Their case was to be a test case for basic science examinations. Although the appeal was dropped and the Morks paid the fine, the story of their introduction into chiropractic, Esther's experiences at Palmer and their battle with the medical profession serves as a case study of chiropractic's experiences with the basic science boards in the thirties and forties. Esther's lively narration is set against the hard, cold facts of source documents.
A medico-historical review on biomedicine and its limitations and problems]	Biomedicine is a conceptualized technical term for current medicine in a historical perspective. Physics, chemistry and biology are considered to be the sciences basic to biomedicine. This medical model depends essentially on a mechanistic approach based on understanding of the structure and function or the body. The biomedical model assumes that illness can be explained in terms of morphological, physiological and biochemical derangements or dysfunctions (a reductionist concept of disease). As medicine of primitive ages and ancient times can be conceptualized in terms of witch-philosophical medicine, medicine of the Middle Ages can be conceptualized in terms of religious medicine. The early steps by which modern medical sciences have been gradually built up appeared in the 10th and 17th century. In those ages direction and methodology forward scientific medicine were established. Medicine of Renaissance ages can be conceptualized in terms of mechanical medicine. Remarkable progress has been made in biomedicine in the last three centuries. ...
The calculation of probabilities as a basis for certainty in medicine]	Medicine underwent a serious crisis in the changeover from the 18th to the 19th century. Resorting to the calculation or probabilities as a means to providing Medicine with the desired precision and certainty was one of the most notable features of the remedies taken by doctors to emerge from this crisis. This resorting to the calculation of probabilities was very controversial and hotly debated at that time and we hope to show that this was indeed the case in France.
Speculation and experience in German romantic medicine]	This paper analizes the role attributed to experiment and theory in the philosophical natural writings of Schiller and also how this doctrine was received by some of the leading doctors of the time. The aim of this analysis is to prove that the phisopher's followers did not despise observation, a belief held until not long ago, and to situate the experience within the framework of the doctrine of science rooted in "Naturphilosophie", and, even further, in Kantian thought.
German-Hungarian medical relationships during the Enlightenment; including an 18th century work on inoculation against plague]	The influence of German science and medicine on the development of Hungarian medicine in the age of Enlightenment has been extraordinary strong. Many Hungarian medical students stayed in German medical faculties. The medical interrelationships between Germany and Hungary in the 18th century are discussed in an overview according to the following dimensions: education of protestant Hungarian medical students at German >>Aufklaerungs-Universitaeten<<, practical and theoretical resonance, membership of scientific societies, personal contacts and correspondence. Outstanding personalities of this area were Daniel Fischer, István Weszprémi, Abraham Vater. Special attention is given to a new idea: inoculation against plague was first described by A. Vater in his work Blattern-Beltzen (1721). Thirty years later I. Weszprémi published his original conception - independently from Vater - in the Tentamen de inoculanda peste (1755).
For Francisco Varela: explorer of the phenomenal world.	Francisco Varela was an innovative thinker and researcher as well as a pioneer in the present dialog between science and Buddhism. In this essay, I will first speak briefly about some of Francisco's contributions to the world at large and then relate a few vivid moments from my own interactions with him.
Political goals versus scientific truths: a response to Jackson (2003).	Three fundamental issues separate Jackson's (2003) methodological views from mine. One, whereas he believes an absolute moral view can prevail in a democracy, I assume moral pluralism is an inevitable byproduct of an open society. Two, Jackson feels that psychology can identify a correct moral position, whereas I postulate natural science psychology is only capable of revealing the empirical consequences of competing social policies and their moral implications. Three, Jackson espouses a politically active psychology that from my perspective is antithetical to a democratic and scientific ethic. In sum, Jackson's coupling of science with political advocacy will lead to a mistrust of psychology that will deny a democracy the opportunity to base its social policies on reliable psychological information.
Between doubts and certainties: on the place of history of science in Islamic societies within the field of history of science.	I discuss my long-term observation that history of science in Islamic societies is marginalized within the general history of science community as well as in the academic world of Islamic studies, Near Eastern language and civilization programs, Middle Eastern history, or the investigation of the modern Muslim world. I ask what the possible causes for this situation are and what can be done to change the bleak situation.
Théodule Ribot's ambiguous positivism: philosophical and epistemological strategies in the founding of French scientific psychology.	Théodule Ribot (1839-1916) is regarded by many historians of psychology as the "father" of the discipline in France. Ribot contributed to the development of a "new psychology" independent from philosophy, relying on the methods of the natural sciences. However, such an epistemological transition encountered fierce opposition from both the champions of the old-fashioned metaphysical psychology and the representatives of the "scientific spirit." This article focuses on the objections raised by the latter, and especially philosophers of science, against the possibility of a scientific psychology. For instance, according to Auguste Comte, psychology does not satisfy certain basic methodological requirements. To overcome these objections, Ribot, in his La Psychologie Anglaise Contemporaine (1870/1914), devised an epistemological strategy that amounted to invoking criticisms of Comte's views made by other representatives of the positivist school, such as John Stuart Mill and Herbert Spencer.
Balloon mania: news in the air.	The hot-air balloon, invented by the Montgolfier brothers in 1783, enabled the French King to project his glory, the nobility to exhibit their valor, the literary public to transmit the ideal of the Enlightenment and the plebian public to rejoice in a scientific spectacle. The ensuing balloon mania helped create an integrated public that, because of its size and composition, can only be described as 'democratic' just a few years before the French Revolution. The monumental impact of the balloon was well represented in a flood of poetry, pamphlets, books, journal reports, academic papers and consumer items. Sifting through these artifacts and considering the crowd that witnessed the ascent of the balloon will bring us to the historical moment when things, spectacles, and events (rather than words) shaped public and popular opinion.
The making of scientific butter: injecting scientific reasoning into agriculture.	Both Danish and English agriculture underwent fundamental restructuring during the second half of the 19th century, and in both cases the dairy sector made great advances. However, the two agricultural industries differed in aims and strategies, and crucially in the extent to which new technologies and scientific methods were implemented. Economic historical analysis is insufficient to explain why the Danish and English dairy industries developed in different ways, and how Danish butter achieved success in the competitive English market. However, with a focus on the role of science and a scientific understanding of the development of these two dairy industries, all becomes clear.
The triad of science foundations, instructional technology, and organizational structure.	Over the centuries and across all societies educational achievement does not improve. The attempt to improve the instructional process has concentrated on instructional technology. But these attempts have overlooked the importance of two other factors: the science that should underlie the instructional technologies and the organization that must operate those technologies. A considerable step forward in handling the problems of instructional effectiveness has been the derivation of instructional technologies based on Skinnerian science. But the instructional technologies based on Skinner's analysis of behavior are promoted as if they were to operate in an organizational vacuum. The division of labor, and its necessary coordination and control, is taken for granted. But in any large scale enterprise, the organization of the division of labor must fit the technology through which that enterprise achieves its mission. Educational technology must tie directly to a pertinent science and to a proper organizational structure. To teach effectively requires an overhaul along three lines: 1) a relevant science that reflects and encapsulates an accurate understanding of behavior; 2) a contingency-based technology of instruction that directly derives its practices upon proper scientific principles; and 3) a suitable organization based on teaching teams that operate the new instructional technology.
Epilepsy's role in the historical differentiation of religion, magic, and science.	A distinction between religion, magic, and science has not always been recognized. Ancient Greek physicians, in their writings about epilepsy, were likely among the first to record the historically important differentiation between religion, magic, and science.
How science survived: medieval manuscripts' "demography" and classic texts' extinction.	Determining what fraction of texts and manuscripts have survived from Antiquity and the Middle Ages has been highly problematic. Analyzing the transmission of texts as the "paleodemography" of their manuscripts yields definite and surprisingly high estimates. Parchment copies of the foremost medieval textbooks on arithmetical and calendrical calculation closely fit age distributions expected for populations with logistic growth and manuscripts with exponential survivorship. The estimated half-lives of copies agree with Bischoff's paleographically based suggestion that roughly one in seven manuscripts survive in some form from ninth-century Carolingian workshops. On this basis, many if not most of the leading technical titles circulating in Latin probably survived, even from late Antiquity.
Psychoanalysis and its neighboring sciences: paradigms and opportunities.	Breuer and Freud's prepsychoanalytic cathartic treatment proved to be generally ineffective. Consequently, both the treatment and the theory adduced to support it were revised to accommodate the issue of wishes and their expression. But the new treatment, too, had only limited success, which resulted in a further revision of the supporting theory to emphasize the "resistances," or the control and modulation of drives. There is an irony in these progressive shifts: as the therapy's limitations became more apparent, the theory became more expansive, and extended itself beyond its beginnings in neurotic symptoms, and into slips, dreams, character formation, and sociology. In short, it encompassed more of normal behavior as its expectations for the therapy of pathological behavior were increasingly called into question. The paper explores some implications of this historical turn for a scientific data base with opportunities to test and revise the various psychoanalytic hypotheses. One view would have it that psychoanalysis has been lamed by the physicalistic language of its metapsychology, by its isolation from the neurosciences and the cognitive sciences, and by a compartmentalization of practice and knowledge that has kept its practitioners focused on the worried well and unimpressed by the knowledge at its borders. Another view would propose that the restiveness of some current and past theorists to claim the mantle of "science" continues to lead to premature and awkward attempts to couple psychoanalysis with putative neighbors rather than stick to its last of shaping its own findings into a language reflecting a coherent theory capable of validation.
A Roman correspondence: George Ent and Cassiano dal Pozzo, 1637-55.	George Ent (FRS 1663), a distinguish physician, was in Rome in 1636, visited the notable collector Cassiano dal Pozzo and saw his Paper Museum. After he returned to London he carried on a correspondence with Cassiano in letters of more than ordinary interest. Cassiano had sent Ent specimens of fossil wood and a table made from fossil wood. They had come from the estates at Acquasparta belonging to Prince Federico Cesi, the founder of the Accademia dei Lincie. The specimens and the table were shown to early meetings of The Royal Society and had a significant part in the developing debate on the origin of fossils. The letters also record exchanges of books between London and Rome. Among medical matters there is news of William Harvey and his works.
'How many female scientists do you know?'.	The stereotypical scientist wears a lab-coat, is often eccentric and is usually male. Images of female scientists in popular culture remain rare. Some of the first portrayals of women in science occurred in a handful of British films made during the 1950s and 1960s. These films reflected the difficulties experienced by women in science at the time, but they might also explain why representations of female scientists in film continue to downplay their role as scientists and emphasize their identity as women.
Concurrent phenomena of science and history in the 17th century and their essential interdependence.	The explanation for the explosion of science in the 17th century lies in history and medical historiography. Without this approach, it becomes fantasy, accidents, or success stories. Sigerist grasped the essential interdependence of science and history, and had no need for devised reasons or speculation. He realized that once the dark night of the Middle Ages was over, the sciences arose with undreamt of force and accelerated development. The advances in astronomy, mathematics, mechanics, and experimental science benefitted a society developing in seafaring, manufacture, and trade in the 17th century. Sigerist's views make the scientific explosion understandable in human and social terms. He did not overlook the capabilities of some extraordinary individuals, such as Paracelsus (1493-1541), to shape the course of medicine, nor the importance of the mechanistic philosophy in the 17th century. Man makes history and science; hence, we find concurrent phenomena of history and science essentially interdependent. The spirit of experimental science of 17th century England was inspired by the new needs of commercial enterprise for more means of transportation and communication. Likewise, the interest in the mechanics of the pump for waterworks and for the drainage of swamps led Harvey to think of the heart as a pump, and to explain the circulation of the blood in terms of its functioning.
The evolution of Rogers' Science of Unitary Human Beings: 21st century reflections.	The purpose of this article is to reflect on the state of Martha E. Rogers' science of unitary human beings as it has evolved over the past 40 years, with particular attention to the decade since her death. Although Rogers never updated her 1970 book, revised concepts and principles of homeodynamics, as reported in other publications, are discussed. In more than a decade since Rogers' death, nurse scientists have been prolific in explicating the science in scholarly research and writing. An example of theories derived from the science, as well as concepts under study, and research methods are identified. Twenty-first century thoughts on the science of unitary human beings, as expressed by three founders of the Society of Rogerian Scholars, are highlighted from an interview conducted by Fawcett. Rogers suggested that the development of a science of unitary human beings is a never ending process.
Lunar philosophers.	A close associate of the Lunar Society, Joseph Wright of Derby painted several industrial and scientific scenes. This article (part of the Science in the Industrial Revolution series) shows how two of his works - featuring an orrery and an alchemist - reveal the ideas and aspirations of the provincial philosophers who made up the Society.
I.M. Sechenov (1829 - 1905) and the scientific self-understanding for medical sciences.	There is no discussion about the historic relevance of I. Sechenov for physiology and neurosciences as the "father of Russian modern physiology". But he is relevant for modern natural science too because of his basic epistemological and ontological work. He did not accept the up to now basic paradigm of "Ignorabimus" which can be seen as the reason to exclude even the generalizable aspects of individuality, creativity and spontaneity from natural science. He developed techniques for empirical based science to deal with materialistic and idealistic aspects of the comprehensive person the "ignoramus" according to the actual stay of knowledge and the acceptable ontologies. He demonstrated that ontologies ("paradigms") can be used as tools according to the given problem which should be solved. So Sechenov can be seen as a precursor of the so efficient philosophical positions of Einstein and Th. Kuhn. The stay of the art in physiology and neurosciences changed since the time of Sechenov dramatically. Therefore the philosophical positions of the 19th century should be discussed. Maybe this is indispensable for the needed linkage between materialistic and idealistic aspects of a person. For this the proposals of Sechenov are helpful up to now but nearly unknown. There is no discussion about the historic relevance of I. Sechenov as the "father of Russian physiology." But he is relevant for modern natural science too because of his epistemological and ontological work. He did not accept the up to now basic paradigm of "Ignorabimus" that can be seen as the reason to exclude even the generalizable aspects of individuality, creativity, and spontaneity from natural science. He demonstrated that ontologies ("paradigms") and epistemology can be used as tools according to the given problem. So Sechenov can be seen as a precursor of the so efficient philosophical positions of Einstein and Th. Kuhn. The state of the art changed dramatically. Therefore, the philosophical positions of the nineteenth century should be questioned. Maybe this is indispensable for the needed link between materialistic and idealistic aspects of a person as a whole. In this respect the proposals of Sechenov are helpful for medical science in the twenty-first century too but nearly unknown.
Amateur scientists, the international geophysical year, and the ambitions of Fred Whipple.	The contribution of amateur scientists to the International Geophysical Year (IGY) was substantial, especially in the arena of spotting artificial satellites. This article examines how Fred L. Whipple and his colleagues recruited satellite spotters for Moonwatch, a program for amateur scientists initiated by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO) in 1956. At the same time, however, the administrators with responsibility for the IGY program closely monitored and managed--sometimes even contested--amateur participation. IGY programs like Moonwatch provided valuable scientific information and gave amateurs opportunities to contribute actively to the research of professional scientists. Moonwatch, which operated until 1975, eventually became the public face of a vast satellite-tracking network that expanded the SAO's global reach and helped further Whipple's professional goals. Understanding amateurs' interactions with the professional science community enables us better to understand the IGY as a phenomenon that enlisted broad participation and transcended traditional boundaries between professional and amateur scientists.
Mathematics in narratives of Geodetic expeditions.	In eighteenth-century France, geodesy (the measure of the earth's shape) became an arena where mathematics and narrative intersected productively. Mathematics played a crucial role not only in the measurements and analysis necessary to geodesy but also in the narrative accounts that presented the results of elaborate and expensive expeditions to the reading public. When they returned to France to write these accounts after their travels, mathematician-observers developed a variety of ways to display numbers and mathematical arguments and techniques. The numbers, equations, and diagrams they produced could not be separated from the story of their acquisition. Reading these accounts for the interplay of these two aspects--the mathematical and the narrative--shows how travelers articulated the intellectual and physical difficulties of their work to enhance the value of their results for specialist and lay readers alike.
Lord Rayleigh: John William Strutt, third Baron Rayleigh.	John William Strutt, first son of the second Baron Rayleigh, was born on November 12, 1842. He was a sickly boy, so his schooling was sporadic. Nevertheless, he graduated first in his year at Cambridge and subsequently was a Fellow of Trinity College until his marriage in 1871. His father died in 1873, and he succeeded to the title third Baron Rayleigh. He converted the stable block of his country house, Terling Place, into a laboratory. In 1879, he moved back to Cambridge as Professor of Experimental Physics, but he returned to Terling in 1884. He published The Theory of Sound in 1877/1878 and, in his lifetime, 466 scientific articles. He received the 1904 Nobel Prize in Physics for the discovery of argon and made numerous seminal contributions to scientific progress. In the field of acoustics, he studied scattering, the diffraction limit, surface waves, resonance phenomena, reciprocity, streaming, radiation force, cavitation, relaxation, and binaural perception. He received many honors, was President of the Royal Society, one of the founding members of the Order of Merit, and Chancellor of Cambridge University. He also was interested in psychical research. Lord Rayleigh died on June 30, 1919.
The Buzzati Traverso archive]	The life and activity of Adriano Buzzati-Traverso are significantly linked to the birth and development of genetics in Italy, as well as to the achievements and the shortcomings of the creation of a 'modern' notion and policy of science in our country. His archive sheds light on public and private aspects of his activity, especially the creation of important research centers.
Biology and utopia. Adriano Buzzati Traverso and Italian science]	The paper aims at reconstructing the scientific career of Adriano Buzzati-Traverso, a prominent character in Italian biology after the Second World War. In the Fifties and the Sixties, he was able to introduce the new molecular approaches in life sciences. A great scientific manager, much ahead of his times (at least in Italy), he successfully organized the first postgraduate courses of genetics and molecular biology in Pavia, and later created the International Laboratory of Genetics and Biophysics in Naples. Between 1962 and 1969, this institution gained the greatest respect in the scientific community, but the political turmoil in 1969 abruptly ended this fascinating attempt to modernize Italian science. Buzzati-Traverso's personal archive allows us to reconstruct the detailed history of his scientific enterprises, focusing particularly on the hard struggle to modernize management and policies of Italian science.
Science and history in the report by the First Republic's Comissão Exploradora do Planalto Central]	The idea of moving Brazil's capital to the Central Plateau reappeared in the early days of the Republic, having been defended one century earlier by the Viscount of Porto Seguro. Headed by Luiz Cruls, director of Brazil's National Observatory, a commission was formed in 1892 to stake out the area where the new capital would stand. The expedition's 1896 report found space in Brazil's main vehicles of public opinion; it was reviewed in newspapers and also in articles published in Revista do Instituto Histórico e Geográfico Brasileiro, the Brazilian Institute for History and Geography's journal. A number of issues then of concern to certain sectors of Brazilian society converge in the body of the report, including the healthiness of Brazil's climate for European immigrants, the definition of the country's borders, and territorial integration.
So the confessionals speak!: Disease, gender and social class in the nineteenth century Seville]	María Juana Cañaveral Villena had suffered a disease which prevented her from using her legs for more than four years. In the evening 25th October 1872 she was anointed some fat and she was given to drink three sips of water, both of them previously passed by so-called perolito de san José. This provoked a total recovery. This fact is the beginning of a research work over different aspects of the Sevillian life of those days. This study gathers together among other things the response from the ecclesiastical authorities, the sociological characteristics of the two families involved in the event, the josephine movement as a form of popular religious manifestion, the controversy over the matter held by the theologian Mateos-Gago and the group of Seville rationalist physicians, the impact in the medical and no-medical literature, as well as, the attempts to explain the disease and the cure of doña María Juana.
Is medicine an art or a science?--considerations in the light of Polish school of medicine philosophy and views of other European doctors from the beginning of 19th century till outbreak of the Second World War"]	This paper is devoted to the problem of real nature of medicine, as it was seen in Polish school of the philosophy of the medicine. Is medicine more (or only) science, or is it an art was the crucial point of discussion, which was held in European philosophy of the medicine for the first time in late 19th century. The important voice in it was given by Polish scientists such as Zygmunt Kramsztyk, Henryk Nusbaum, Władysław Biegański, Edmund Biernacki, Władyslaw Szumowski and Ludwik Zembrzuski. How they understood place and meaning of medicine in the realm of human activities, in which points they found the same grounds and in which they differed, should be seen as the main topic for this article.
Several remarks on what is known as the Polish school of medical philosophy]	This sketch is a polemic with the titular issue raised by Ryszard W. Gryglewski's article Problem: Is medicine an art or science?--in light of the Polish school of medical philosophy up to the outbreak of World War Two, published in this issue of 'Medycyna Nowozytna' ('Modern Medicine'). The author of the sketch proposes the analysis and construction of such concepts as the concept of a Polish school of medical philosophy as well as the concept of medicine (in my terminology conception of the field of 'medicine'). That proposal is backed by the conviction that in metascientific research, including the history of the field of medicine, greater precision should be sought in order to eliminate, as far as possible, ambiguity amongst basic terms and the resultant epistemological vagueness of individual statements.
The relationship between Stanisław Lem and medicine]	Stanisław Lem is the most widely read science fiction auther in the world. He is regarded as the greatest writer in the history of science fiction and the creator of Polish science fiction. He is also regarded as a restorer of a literary convention of this genre writing his first novels according to the classical pattern but broadening and perfecting them. His later period was devoted to philosophical dispute, cybernetics and current political topics. He also wrote about human technological progress and the problem of human existence in the world, presenting his futurological prognoses in the field of culture and technology. Stanisław Lem graduated from medicine but he has never taken up medical practice. Nevertheless, medical education formed his outlook on life, the world and diverse interest in literature. Therefore, in his works there are many references to medical problems and the issues addressed in the novels are based on the medical issues. The subject of this paper is the analysis of the relationship between Stanisław Lem and medicine, in particular the search for the tracks of medical education in Lem's literary output.
Antoine Lavoisier and the study of respiration: 200 years old.	Antoine Lavoisier has been called the father of modern chemistry. From a medical point of view, he introduced the study of respiration and metabolism and so founded biochemistry. With his experiments, our knowledge of how the body works made immense strides forward. Two hundred years ago, he wrote his last authentic and untouched account of his views on respiration, in a letter to Joseph Black in Edinburgh. This opportunity has been taken to briefly review this work and the life of a man who did much to improve our understanding of ourselves.
A viatorium medico-historicum. III. Commemorative places in the Harz mountains and their piedmont]	The third part of a treatise concerning a viatorium medico-historicum which deals with the region of Saxony-Anhalt leads through the areas of the Harz mountains and their piedmont. Main points from the history of medicine and natural sciences are nominated. Life and work of personalities who came from the region or became active here are briefly described.
Darwin the scientist.	Charles Darwin's experimental investigations show him to have been a superb practical researcher. These skills are often underestimated today when assessing Darwin's achievement in the Origin of Species and his other books. Supported by a private income, he turned his house and gardens into a Victorian equivalent of a modern research station. Darwin participated actively in the exchange of scientific information via letters and much of his research was also carried out through correspondence. Although this research was relatively small scale in practice, it was large scale in intellectual scope. Darwin felt he had a strong desire to understand or explain whatever he observed.
The epistemology of Ludwik Fleck and the thought community of Banff: reflections on the classification of the renal allograft pathology.	Ludwik Fleck was a polish physician and bacteriologist with major interest in epistemology. In 1935, he published, in German, a monograph entitled 'Genesis and development of a scientific fact'. His concepts of 'thought collective', 'thought style' and 'active and passive associations' have been materialized in Banff classification of renal allograft pathology. The dynamics and evolution of the classification of renal allograft pathology, generated within Banff community, reflect perfectly Fleck's conceptions. In this essay, the Banff community of thought is characterized as a thought collective, according to Fleck's epistemology. Since its inception, the classification has been evolving in a continuum of active and passive connections, preserving its initial thought style, based on morphology. Whether the emergence of nonmorphological, molecular techniques will result in the end of morphological thought style is a question the community is presently facing.
Locating the sciences in eighteenth-century Egypt.	In the last years of the eighteenth century, Egypt famously witnessed the practice of European sciences as embodied in the members of Bonaparte's Commission des sciences et des arts and the newly founded Institut d'Egypte. Less well known are the activities of local eighteenth-century Cairene religious scholars and military elites who were both patrons and practitioners of scientific expertise and producers of hundreds upon hundreds of manuscripts. Through the writings of the French naturalist Etienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire (1772-1844) and those of the Cairene scholar and chronicler Abd al-Rahmān al-Jabartī (1753-1825), I explore Egypt as a site for the practice of the sciences in the late eighteenth century, the palatial urban houses which the French made home to the Institut d'Egypte and their role before the French invasion, and the conception of the relationship between the sciences and social politics that each man sought. Ultimately, I argue that Geoffroy's struggle to create scientific neutrality in the midst of intensely tumultuous political realities came to a surprising head with his fixation on Paris as the site for the practice of natural history, while al-Jabartī's embrace of this entanglement of knowledge and power led to a vision of scientific expertise that was specifically located in his Cairene society, but which--as Geoffroy himself demonstrated--could be readily adapted almost anywhere.
The many lives of Charles Darwin: early biographies and the definitive evolutionist.	This article focuses on the early book-length biographies of Darwin published from his death in 1882 up to 1900. By making 1900 the cutoff point I can examine the biographies produced when the iconic figure was not yet set in stone, and before the rediscovery of Mendel's work in the early twentieth century and the anniversary celebrations of 1909 changed the way in which Darwin was regarded. Darwin's biographers dealt with three major themes. First, several biographers emphasized his scientific abilities, in particular his powers of observation and his prowess in conducting experiments. Second, many biographers discussed his character, a key issue in determining whether or not he could be trusted as a scientific guide. Finally, his scientific theories and religious beliefs, and how they related to the evolutionary controversy, formed a topic taken up by most biographers. By focusing on these three themes, the biographies published before 1900 were important in shaping the image of Darwin that was forming in American and British culture.
The Baltic countries as the birthplace of embryology. Contingencies of a transnational region of science]	Modern embryology is grounded on the research of Pander (theory of germ-layers), von Baer (human egg) and Rathke (branchial arches in mammals). All these scientists lived and worked in the Baltic region. They held professorships at the universities of Koenigsberg and Dorpat and at the Imperial Academy of St. Petersburg, thus moving between the Kingdom of Prussia and the Russian Czardom. Since the Baltic countries are not commonly considered to be predestined as a birthplace of embryology, special attention is turned to the coincidences that, there of all places, made those people focus on that special field of research. Considering the peripheral position of the Baltic, the paper examines personal relations, national identities, cultural exchange, and local working conditions, including room for development as well as formidable obstacles.
"Psychologus nemo, nisi Physiologus"--Johannes Müller and perspectives of médecine philosophique: a discovery from University's Archive]	Taking Johannes Müller's still little examined school education in then French Koblenz at its starting point, this paper argues that Miiller's pre-academic training in the applied sciences as well as in the old languages--which Müller saw as a basic essential for the philosophically educated naturalist--had a profound impact on the scientific-philosophical views he put forward in his Dissertatio inauguralis physiologica sistens commentarios de phoronomia animalium published in 1822. The Dissertatio was influenced, in particular, by the work of Pierre-Jean-Georges Cabanis (1757-1808) and can be read as a physiological application of French Enlightenment sensualist philosophy. It shows that Müller already at early moment took up decisive impulses from revolutionary France. Also, a traditional mistake is shown to have falsified a fundamental aspect of this earliest work already with lasting effect.
An illustrious unknown. Giuseppe Levi among science, anti-fascism and Nobel Prizes]	The anatomist Giuseppe Levi (1872-1965) is unanimously considered one of the major figures of Italian biomedical sciences in the 20th century. His fame, however, is mainly derived from having nurtured three Nobel Prize winners, namely Salvador E. Luria, Rita Levi Montalcini and Renato Dulbecco. In reappraising Levi's role in the development of Italian science and culture in general, this article aims at questioning both the narrowness of earlier accounts and a certain kind of genealogical approach to the history of scientific disciplines and academic schools. We will here consider Giuseppe Levi as an instance of two major cultural phenomena: the development of experimental biology in Italy and continental Europe and the anti-fascist socialist culture expressed by a part of the Italian intellectuals. In so doing, we will reassess the historical specificity of the scientific maturation of Levi's three famous students, on the one hand, while on the other we will consider in some depth the cultural and moral environment in which Levi thrived and his role as a moral example for his students. Such revision, we will argue, have a direct bearing on more general historiographical issues, namely, the need for a stronger contextualization of the birth and consolidation of research traditions, implying a rejection of simplistic genealogical reconstructions, and the role of academic schools and institutional settings in the definition of novel, multidisciplinary scientific approaches. Finally, the following will highlight the importance of a more careful outlook on the master-pupil relationship in academic context, addressing issues of both continuity and rupture. The article is subdivided in two main sections, the first devoted to Levi as a scientist, the second to his Anti-fascism.
On nature and bioethics.	The account of nature and humanity's relationship to nature are of central importance for bioethics. The Scientific Revolution was a critical development in the history of this question and many contemporary accounts of nature find their beginnings here. While the innovative approach to nature going out of the seventeenth century was reliant upon accounts of nature from the early modern period, the Middle Ages, late-antiquity and antiquity, it also parted ways with some of the understandings of nature from these epochs. Here I analyze this development and suggests that some of the insights from older understandings of nature may be helpful for bioethics today, even if there can be no simple return to them.
Fourcroy and the "Lycĕes"]	In XVIIIth century on Encyclopaedists influence, the study of Sciences arouse a real passion. Many courses are proposed. Two private institutions are opened which are called "Lycées": "Lycée de la rue de Valois" and "Lycée des Arts". Fourcroy and Lavoisier have been influential members of these two. Problems come to "Lycée de la rue de Valois", lead to the "purge ballot" and to Lavoisier's eviction. In France, it is the "Terror" and Lavoisier few months after was guillotined as "Fermier general". The historic events exonerate Fourcroy, member of the Convention, to the accusation that he has no made steps to save Lavoisier. This important historic event is a part of this study. As we show in this study "Lycées" are been small universities and have contributed to maintenance bonds between French scientists at the Revolution. The "Musée de Paris" and the "Société Philomathique de Paris" are also evoked.
Science and morals in the affective psychopathology of Philippe Pinel.	Building on what he believed was a new 'medico-philosophical' method, Philippe Pinel made a bold theoretical attempt to find a place for the passions and other affective posits in psychopathology. However, his courageous attempt to steer affectivity onto the high seas of medical science ran aground on two great reefs that still threaten the scientific status of affectivity today. Epistemologically, there is the elusive nature of the signs and symptoms of affectivity. Ethically, there is the stubborn manner in which fact and value are intermingled in affectivity. Both obstacles posed insuperable difficulties for Pinel, who never really managed to extricate his affective psychopathology from the confines of the Lockean intellectual paradigm.
"Science and religion throughout history" from the critical point of view]	The sovereignty struggle between philosophy, science and the relation which was accused of destroying the public area with its scholastic approaches is discussed. Author Dr. Adivar, analyzed his theory which he tried to prove with his work that is his intellectual approach that religion would not compromise with mind and science and the conflict between science and religion occurred since these two concepts were clung together, within the frame of the cultural history of the world.
"Science among the Ottoman Turks" from the critical point of view]	According to Dr. Adivar, the positive science in Ottoman Turkey was only sometimes deficient and sometimes wrong continuation of the science in Persian and Arabic languages and was no more different from the transition of the Greek miracle to East neither on account of content or method until the XIX. Century, besides if there were ant phases in which these sciences were innovated, they will be importantly specified.
'Piracy of kowledge'--the role of a buccaneer-scientist in the knowledge circulation around diseases and drugs in the tropics]	Knowledge circulation in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries was not only stimulated by the mutual interaction of trade and science. In the context of territorial expansion, war, and the activities of privateers and pirates, knowledge of diseases and drugs in the tropics was increased as well. An important part in this process was performed by so-called 'buccaneer-scientists': adventurers with medical and scientific backgrounds and/or interest who operated on the cultural borders in different parts of the hemisphere. The characteristics of this type of contributor to Early Modern knowledge circulation are explored and analyzed in the example of Scottish surgeon and pirate Lionel Wafer (c. 1660 - c. 1705). The buccaneer scientist had to share the passions of other scientists, resulting in accurate and detailed empirical observation; be able to judge the relevance of observations and 'facts'; be part of a context that stimulates these observations; be capable of describing of these observations; and be part of a network of dissemination of observations. His activities should have an important practical and pragmatic component stimulating trade, expansion and even piracy. And he should possess personal characteristics such as perseverance, a healthy constitution, and ruthlessness, to work and survive in a violent and traumatic environment. Wafer is typical for other 'buccaneer-scientists' of this period--not only pirates and privateers, but also physicians and natural explorers operating in other and more 'respectable' areas of the European overseas expansion.
Metaphysics for an enlightened public: The controversy over monads in Germany, 1746-1748.	This essay analyzes the controversy that attended the prize essay question on monads proposed by the Berlin Academy of Sciences in 1746. The controversy was first touched off by an anonymous pamphlet published by the mathematician Leonhard Euler, the academy's most well known member, that attacked the doctrine of monads. It peaked with the awarding of the prize to Johann Heinrich Gottlob Justi, whose winning essay closely followed Euler's arguments. This essay discusses the controversy as one instance in a broader quarrel in the German academic community over the suitability of Christian Wolff's philosophy as the foundation for a broad range of academic disciplines, including natural philosophy. It also analyzes the controversy as displaying the central role of the periodical press in the emergent German public sphere.
Preaching at the British Association for the Advancement of Science: sermons, secularization and the rhetoric of conflict in the 1870s.	Much attention has been given to the science-religion controversies attached to the British Association for the Advancement of Science, from the infamous 1860 Huxley-Wilberforce debate at Oxford to John Tyndall's 1874 'Belfast Address'. Despite this, almost no attention has been given to the vast homiletic literature preached during the British Association meetings throughout the nineteenth century. During an association meeting the surrounding churches and halls were packed with men of science, as local and visiting preachers sermonized on the relationship between science and religion. These sermons are revealing, particularly in the 1870s when the 'conflict thesis' gained momentum. In this context, this paper analyses the rhetoric of conflict in the sermons preached during the meetings of the association, exploring how science-religion conflict was framed and understood through time. Moreover, it is argued that attention to the geography of the Sunday activities of the British Association provides insight into the complex dynamic of nineteenth-century secularization.
A possible first use of the word astrobiology?	The word astrobiology was possibly first used in 1935, in an article published in a French popular science magazine. The author was Ary J. Sternfeld (1905-1980), a pioneer of astronautics who wrote numerous scientific books and papers. The article is remarkable because his portrayal of the concept is very similar to the way it is used today. Here I review the 1935 article and provide a brief history of Sternfeld's life, which was heavily influenced by the tragic events of 20(th) century history.
Assembling an aesthetic.	Recent research informing and related to the study of three-dimensional scientific models is assembled here in a way that explores an aesthetic, specifically, of touch. I concentrate on the materiality of models, drawing on insights from the history and philosophy of science, design and metaphysics. This article chronicles the ways in which touch, or material interactions, operate in the world of 3D models, and its role in what models mean and do. I end with a call for greater attention to scientific process, described as assembly of and within science, which is revealed by this focus on touch.
Smelling in multiple dimensions.	Smell is perhaps the most subjective of the human senses, making odors difficult to measure and define. In everyday language, in the philosophy of aesthetics, and in the lab, this low opinion of odors means that smells are often characterized simply along an axis of good or bad. Odors and the ways they are perceived, however, are varied and incredibly complex, requiring an understanding of chemistry, neuroscience, aesthetics, and social science. Science and art that engage the sense of smell have the potential to expand our understanding of how biology and chemistry interact.
Failure to consider a radically new scientific idea or theory.	From plate tectonics theory to psychoneuroimmunology, to medical uses of marijuana, and controlled drinking by alcoholics, there has been a consistent failure by scientists and medical researchers to consider radically new ideas and theories. A review and analysis of these cases and other examples identified numerous reasons or barriers for this failure. Learning from these episodes of failure requires attention to and reflection on these barriers, an understanding of how the scientific process progresses and scientific knowledge evolves, and a willingness to test and evaluate these new ideas and theories before passing final judgment on them.
A dark business, full of shadows: analogy and theology in William Harvey.	In a short work called De conceptione appended to the end of his Exercitationes de generatione animalium (1651), William Harvey developed a rather strange analogy. To explain how such marvelous productions as living beings were generated from the rather inauspicious ingredients of animal reproduction, Harvey argued that conception in the womb was like conception in the brain. It was mostly rejected at the time; it now seems a ludicrous theory based upon homonymy. However, this analogy offers insight into the structure and function of analogies in early modern natural philosophy. In this essay I hope to not only describe the complex nature of Harvey's analogy, but also offer a novel interpretation of his use of analogical reasoning, substantially revising the account offered by Guido Giglioni (1993). I discuss two points of conceptual change and negotiation in connection with Harvey's analogy, understanding it as both a confrontation between the border of the natural and the supernatural, as well as a moment in the history of psychology. My interpretation touches upon a number of important aspects, including why the analogy was rejected, how Harvey systematically deployed analogies according to his notions of natural philosophical method, how the analogy fits into contemporary discussions of analogies in science, and finally, how the analogy must be seen in the context of changing Renaissance notions of the science of the soul, ultimately confronting the problem of how to understand final causality in Aristotelian science. In connection with the last, I conclude the essay by turning to how Harvey embeds the analogy within a natural theological cosmology. 
E. E. Just Award lecture.	What started as a game of discovery for a child with a chemistry set has resulted in a lifetime of fulfillment and dedication to science. It is deeply rewarding to continuously let my curiosity ask questions for which there are no known answers. Equally rewarding has been the opportunity to mentor young students and postdoctorate graduates through their formative years in science. 
A question of taste.	A career in science is shaped by many factors, one of the most important being our tastes in research. These typically form early and are shaped by subsequent successes and failures. My tastes run to microscopes, chemistry, and spatial organization of cytoplasm. I will try to identify where they came from, how they shaped my career, and how they continue to evolve. My hope is to inspire young scientists to identify and celebrate their own unique tastes. 
Untangling causation issues in law and medicine: hazardous substance litigation.	Judges and juries are increasingly being asked to settle questions about disease caused by hazardous products. With the growth of litigation on toxic substances and unsafe products, more and more courts must wrestle with the complicated scientific proof of the relation between exposure and disease or injury. This proof frequently involves the use of probabilistic evidence in the form of statistical tests and epidemiologic studies. Anglo-American law relies on deductive notions of causation and is suspicious of probabilistic evidence of causation. As a result, court decisions of hazardous substance cases are sometimes based on a confused understanding of the critical causal connection. Physicians who testify in such cases, either as the treating doctor or as expert witnesses, must be aware of the court's difficulty with probabilistic evidence. In addition, physicians must state clearly the role of such evidence in the identification of a hazardous substance as the cause of a disease or injury.
Psychology of the scientist: XLI. continuous noise can degrade performance when using badly designed equipment: a case history.	An acclaimed important discovery was made in the early 1950s that noise degrades the performance of certain manual tasks directly, by a mechanism other than the masking of sounds. It now appears that this is not so. The unravelling of the mystery is described, together with some of the repercussions and implications.
Criticisms of the psychopathological interpretation of witch hunts: a review.	The psychopathological interpretation of the European witch hunts of the 16th and 17th centuries, which has been prominent in histories of psychiatry, contends that demonology overwhelmed psychiatry in the late middle Ages, with the result that the mentally ill were executed by the thousands as witches. The author reviews the criticisms and contrary evidence that have been brought to bear on this paradigm in the past 20 years, including critiques of its data collection and interpretation, historical evidence which has failed to support its contentions, and questions about its implicit approach to the history and philosophy of science.
Suicide in eminent persons.	A review of several listings of famous historical figures indicated that percentages of deaths due to suicide ranged from 0.3% to 13.3%, with a median of 2.9%.
