A novel operative approach to scimitar syndrome.	Scimitar syndrome is a rare congenital cardiac anomaly defined by an anomalous right pulmonary vein draining the right lung to the inferior vena cava. We describe a unique operative approach performed on 2 patients with infantile scimitar syndrome.
Association of a Cor Triatriatum Sinister and a right partial anomalous pulmonary venous return. A case report.	A 56-day old baby girl referred for recurrent respiratory tract infections and stridor, showed a rare association of a Cor Triatriatum Sinister (CTS) and a right Partial Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return (PAPVR), in the form of a stenosed Scimitar vein, draining the right pulmonary veins to the subdiaphragmatic inferior vena cava (IVC), on echography and angiography. The baby underwent successful surgical repair of the CTS, by resection of the obstructive false membrane and reconnection of the Scimitar vein to the left atrium. At the age of 5 years, the child is doing well without any evidence of obstruction on the right or the left pulmonary venous drainage.
Surgical repair of an unusual type of supra-cardiac total anomalous pulmonary venous connection to the superior vena cava.	Anomalies of the pulmonary venous drainage vary widely in their anatomic spectrum and clinical presentation. We describe an unusual case of supra-cardiac total anomalous pulmonary venous connection (TAPVC), where the pulmonary veins drained directly in the posterior aspect of proximal right superior vena cava (SVC) through separate ostia. The veins were re-routed with a patch to the left atrium via the secundum atrial septal defect (ASD). The continuity between distal SVC and right atrium was re-established by re-implanting the SVC to the right atrial appendage (Warden Procedure).
AngioJet rheolytic thrombectomy in a neonate with pulmonary artery thrombus.	A newborn infant with obstructed supracardiac total anomalous pulmonary venous return underwent emergent surgical correction on day of life 0. A surgically placed transthoracic pulmonary artery catheter was used to monitor pulmonary artery pressure and removed on postoperative day 3. Following acute deterioration in respiratory status requiring reintubation, echocardiographic assessment demonstrated findings consistent with pulmonary hypertension and diminished flow to the left lung. Cardiac catheterization confirmed elevated pulmonary artery pressure and near complete occlusion of his left pulmonary artery due to a thrombus. He underwent successful percutaneous catheter-based thrombectomy using the AngioJet rheolytic catheter, recovered fully, and was discharged home on postoperative day 30. Although thrombotic events resulting in respiratory and hemodynamic compromise are rare in infants, recognition is important and treatment using mechanical thrombectomy can be life saving.
Cardiac emergencies.	The diagnosis and management of pediatric cardiac emergencies can be challenging and complicated. Early presentations are usually the result of ductal-dependent lesions and appear with cyanosis and shock. Later presentations are the result of volume overload or pump failure and present with signs of congestive heart failure. Acquired diseases also present as congestive heart failure or arrhythmias. 
