Severe Acanthamoeba sclerokeratitis in a non-contact lens wearer.	To report a case of severe Acanthamoeba sclerokeratitis.
Bilateral combined retinal and choroidal detachment in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-positive scleritis.	To describe a rare complication of scleritis in a patient with positive serum antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA).
Sclerokeratitis and invasive conjunctival squamous cell carcinoma]	To describe one case of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the conjunctiva in a 74-year-old woman, who two years previously had presented with a lesion which appeared to be an anterior nodular scleritis.
Treatment of infectious scleritis and keratoscleritis.	We reviewed 28 cases of culture-proven infectious scleritis and keratoscleritis to clarify the role of an operation in this disorder. Surgical management in 11 patients with keratoscleritis included cryotherapy, five; penetrating corneal-scleral graft, two; lamellar corneoscleral graft, two; and tectonic penetrating keratoplasty, two; in addition to intensive fortified antibiotic eyedrops. Eight patients with keratoscleritis were treated medically only with intensive fortified frequent antibiotic eyedrops, one; intensive instilled plus intravenous antibiotics, three; and instilled, intravenous, and subconjunctival antibiotics, four. Seven of eight patients treated with antibiotics alone and two of 11 patients who received surgical intervention in addition to antibiotics eventually required evisceration or enucleation of the eye. These results suggest that cryotherapy, lamellar or penetrating corneoscleral graft, in addition to intensive antibiotic therapy, may improve the outcome of patients with infectious keratoscleritis. Five eyes with isolated scleritis without corneal involvement were treated with conjunctival recession and cryotherapy in addition to aggressive antibiotics, and four were treated with antibiotics alone. The infections of these nine patients resolved.
Ahmed glaucoma valve surgery for necrotizing scleritis with secondary glaucoma.	To report the challenges in management in a case of scleritis with extensive staphylomas with secondary glaucoma. A 35-year-old one eyed female, a known case of scleromalacia perforans, presented with raised intraocular pressure on maximum medical treatment. She underwent successful Ahmed glaucoma valve surgery with exposure of the implant following a repeat episode of necrotizing scleritis after 3 months. Management of eyes with scleritis and secondary glaucoma can be challenging with unexpected complications and postoperative course.
