Introduction to biomechanics of the cornea.	As refractive procedures involving the cornea have proliferated, concerns over the long-term stability and predictability of these procedures have occupied a more prominent role.
Computer simulation of arcuate keratotomy for astigmatism.	The development of refractive corneal surgery involves numerous attempts to isolate the effect of individual factors on surgical outcome. Computer simulation of refractive keratotomy allows the surgeon to alter variables of the technique and to isolate the effect of specific factors independent of other factors, something that cannot easily be done in any of the currently available experimental models.
Protective ocular mechanisms in woodpeckers.	Woodpeckers possess mechanisms protecting the eye from shaking/impact. Mechanisms available to woodpeckers but not humans may help explain some eye injuries in Shaken Baby syndrome (SBS).
The scleral rigidity of eyes with different refractions.	The weakened biomechanical properties of the sclera is an important feature of myopic eyes. The quantitative evaluation in vivo of posterior scleral resistance to the elongation remains a challenge.
Ultrasound imaging velocimetry of the human vitreous.	Knowledge of vitreous motion in response to saccades is a prerequisite for understanding vitreous rheology. Purpose of present paper is to introduce Ultrasound Image Velocimetry of the human eye, measure scleral and vitreous velocity fields and test the reproducibility of the proposed technique. Twelve patients with varying diagnosis underwent Ocular Dynamic Ultrasound; scleral angular velocity (V(S)) was measured by 2 different operators and reproducibility calculated. Squared velocity of the vitreous (E), which is representative of kinetic energy per unit mass, was computed from velocity. The time evolution of the energy of the vitreous was described by its spatial average (E(S)), whereas spatial distribution was described by its time average (E(T)). Peak and average E(S), the ratio K(p) of the peak of the spatially averaged kinetic energy per unit mass to the maximum squared scleral angular velocity, vitreous motion onset time (T(O)) and vitreous motion decay time (T(D)) were also defined. Inter-operator reproducibility coefficient was 0.043 and correlation between operators was significant. V(S), peak and average E(S), K(p) ratio and T(D) differed among patients but not among operators. V(S) correlated with E(S) and T(D). E(S) and T(D) but not V(S), were significantly different in patients with Posterior Vitreous Detachment. Patients with retinal detachment showed significantly higher V(S) and E(S). K(p) was inversely correlated to age and refraction. Measures proved accurate and reproducible. E is related to V(S), retinal traction and mechanical stimulation. Identified variables varied with age, refraction pathologic conditions.
Correlation between biomechanical responses of posterior sclera and IOP elevations during micro intraocular volume change.	This study tested the hypothesis that intraocular pressure (IOP) elevations, induced by controlled increase of intraocular volume, are correlated with the biomechanical responses of the posterior sclera.
Mechanical properties of murine and porcine ocular tissues in compression.	Sub-retinal implantation of foreign materials is becoming an increasingly common feature of novel therapies for retinal dysfunction. The ultimate compatibility of implants depends not only on their in vitro chemical compatibility, but also on how well the mechanical properties of the material match those of the native tissue. In order to optimize the mechanical properties of retinal implants, the mechanical properties of the mammalian retina itself must be carefully characterized. In this study, the compressive moduli of eye tissues, especially the retina, were probed using a dynamic mechanical analysis instrument in static mode. The retinal compressive modulus was lower than that of the sclera or cornea, but higher than that of the RPE and choroid. Compressive modulus remained relatively stable with age. Conversely, apparent retinal softening occurred at an early age in mice with inherited retinal degeneration. Compressive modulus is an important consideration for the design of retinal implants. Polymer scaffolds with moduli that are substantially different than that of the native tissue in which they will ultimately reside will be less likely to aid in the differentiation and development of the appropriate cell types in vitro and will have reduced biocompatibility in vivo. 
Choroidal stress and emmetropization.	Human eyes of all ages were partly denuded by removing sclera behind, in front of, or about the equator. Inflation of the eyes, up to 14 mm of Hg, was followed by axial elongation rather than the radial expansion expected. Markers proved that the elongation was the result of ciliary muscle stretch; the strain of the choroid behind the equator was so slight that tracings of the posterior segment before and after loading could be superimposed. The axial expansion of the choroid supports a crucial point in a theory of emmetropization and demonstrates the potential significance of ciliary muscle tone on choroidal tension and scleral stretch.
Schlemm's canal: the effect of intraocular pressure.	We have shown that in the excised eye when oil in the anterior chamber has made the trabecular mesh impermeable, resistance to circumferential flow along the canal increases moderately as transmural pressure is increased. At the same time, resistance to outflow from the canal through the collector channels increases markedly as transmural pressure is increased from low levels to 35 or 40 mm Hg. We have suggested that the usual primary defect in open-angle glaucoma is reduced facility of the inner canal wall and that collapse of the canal with reduction of filtering area and plugging of collector channels is a secondary effect.
Two pore types in the inner-wall endothelium of Schlemm's canal.	It has been reported that fixation conditions significantly influence the apparent pore density in the inner-wall endothelium of Schlemm's canal. In the present study, the manner in which fixation conditions affect the two subtypes of inner-wall pores, intracellular pores and intercellular (or border) pores, was investigated.
