Use of topical steroid therapy in the management of nonnecrotizing anterior scleritis.	Nonnecrotizing anterior scleritis may be treated with a variety of therapies, including topical steroid therapy, systemic therapy with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and systemic steroid therapy. This study was carried out to determine the efficacy of topical steroid therapy in treating diffuse and nodular scleritis.
Transeptal steroids in necrotizing scleritis]	To analyze the efficacy of transeptal corticosteroid injections in necrotizing scleritis as additional treatment to systemic immunosuppressors.
Fungal scleritis after cataract surgery. Successful outcome using itraconazole.	We report the development of fungal scleritis in a 53-year-old man after uncomplicated cataract surgery. Histopathology and culture identified the organism as Aspergillus flavus. Clinically, the patient worsened on treatment with oral ketoconazole and topical amphotericin B with progression of multifocal scleral nodules and necrosis. Resolution of inflammation was achieved using oral itraconazole, a new triazole antifungal agent. The patient achieved 20/15-2 visual acuity and remains free of symptoms and signs for greater than 2 years after discontinuation of all treatment.
Necrotizing scleritis of scleral flaps after transscleral suture fixation of an intraocular lens.	A 56-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis underwent intracapsular cataract extraction and sulcus fixation of an intraocular lens using transscleral fixation sutures buried under partial-thickness scleral flaps. Necrotizing scleritis confined to the area of the scleral flaps developed one month postoperatively, resulting in exposure and loosening of one fixation suture and lens implant decentration. The scleritis responded to systemic prednisone and cyclophosphamide treatment, with healing in two weeks. The final visual acuity was 20/30. Surgical trauma may stimulate local intravascular immune complex deposition and initiate the inflammatory process, thereby leading to necrotizing scleritis. This process should be considered when contemplating the use of scleral flaps in patients with collagen vascular disease and systemic vasculitis.
Necrotising anterior scleritis in a late-onset rheumatoid arthritis (LORA) patient.	Late-onset rheumatoid arthritis (LORA) is a clinically distinct entity from rheumatoid arthritis of younger onset (YORA). We present a case of necrotising anterior scleritis in an elderly lady with new-onset LORA that was initially thought to be infective. Oestrogen receptors have been identified on B cells, T cells, and macrophages with oestrogens demonstrated to increase their activation and enhance RA synovial inflammation. The presence of long-term oestrogen supplementation may have contributed to the development and perpetuation of her RA, thereby necessitating awareness of the possible immunomodulatory role of the sex steroids in immune-mediated diseases which affect the eye.
Scleritis in a person with stiff-person syndrome.	To describe a case of anterior scleritis in a patient with stiff-person syndrome.
Fungal endophthalmitis complicating subconjunctival injection of triamcinolone acetonide in anterior scleritis.	Fungal endophthalmitis following subconjunctival triamcinolone acetonide in anterior scleritis is a rare complication. Two patients with anterior scleritis, who received subconjunctival injection of triamcinolone developed fungal endophthalmitis. Both patients were positive by smear and polymerase chain reaction for 28S ribosomal RNA gene for fungus. Colletotrichum dematium was identified in one patient. Both patients responded well to pars plana vitrectomy and antifungal therapy.
Comparison of antimetabolite drugs as corticosteroid-sparing therapy for noninfectious ocular inflammation.	To compare the relative effectiveness and side effect profiles of antimetabolite drugs in the treatment of noninfectious ocular inflammation.
Mycophenolate mofetil for ocular inflammation.	To evaluate mycophenolate mofetil as a single noncorticosteroid immunosuppressive treatment for noninfectious ocular inflammatory diseases.
Use of orbital floor steroids in the management of patients with uniocular non-necrotising scleritis.	Most cases of non-necrotising scleritis can be successfully treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. If these are ineffective, then high-dose systemic corticosteroids, with all their attendant side-effects, are usually required. We have used orbital floor injections of depot steroid in the management of nine patients with non-necrotising scleritis in an attempt to avoid the use of systemic steroids, or to allow the dose of steroids to be reduced while maintaining disease control. A temporary reduction in inflammation was achieved in all cases, which allowed the use of systemic steroids to be avoided altogether in two patients and delayed in the others. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and systemic corticosteroids remain the mainstay of treatment for non-necrotising scleritis, but orbital floor injections may be a useful adjunct in certain cases.
Use of cyclosporin in the management of steroid dependent non-necrotising scleritis.	Many patients with non-necrotising scleritis can be treated adequately with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or steroids. But, as many of them are young, treatment may present problems if they require high doses of steroids to control the scleral inflammation and then relapse when the dosage is reduced. Five such patients were treated with a combination of steroids and low-dose cyclosporin therapy, and in all cases the scleritis remained under control on a much lower dose of steroids than when steroids were used alone. Cyclosporin is therefore a useful drug in the management of younger patients dependent on high-dose steroids to control their scleral inflammation.
Novel antibiotic regime for pseudomonal scleritis complicating scleral buckling surgery.	Pseudomonal scleritis complicating scleral buckling surgery is described in a patient unable to tolerate systemic side effects from aminoglycoside antibiotics. Particular reference is made to a novel antibiotic regimen comprising systemic ceftazidine and ciprofloxacin.
Ten-year experience of pulsed intravenous cyclophosphamide and methylprednisolone protocol (PICM protocol) in severe ocular inflammatory disease.	Severe ocular inflammation is a blinding ophthalmological emergency. This study evaluates the efficacy and patient tolerance of a validated regime of pulsed intravenous cyclophosphamide and methylprednisolone ('PICM protocol') for these patients.
Contact lens-associated nocardial necrotizing scleritis.	A 52 year-old, contact lens-wearing man presented with progressive right eye pain and redness for one month. He had been evaluated and treated for necrotizing scleritis by multiple eye care specialists prior to presentation. He underwent a complete systemic work-up for both autoimmune and infectious causes of scleritis, including a culture. The culture revealed heavy growth of Nocardia asteroides complexes. The patient was treated with topical amikacin and oral Bactrim. Following several weeks of antibiotic treatment, the patient's infection resolved completely, and his visual acuity returned to baseline status. Nocardia is a rare but potentially devastating cause of necrotizing scleritis that may affect contact lens wearers without an associated keratitis. Prompt recognition and early treatment with appropriate antimicrobial agents are critical to achieve a favorable outcome. 
Posterior scleritis with annular ciliochoroidal detachment.	We studied an unusual case of posterior scleritis in a patient with sarcoidosis.
