Fibrinogen, fibrin and its degradation products in drained blood after major orthopaedic surgery.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the fibrinogen enzymatic conversion in blood collected postoperatively from a surgical wound. Ten otherwise healthy patients (aged 11-28 years) in need of surgical treatment for thoracic scoliosis were included in the study. Arterial blood preoperatively and at wound closure were compared with samples of drained blood from the wound at closure and from a collection system for autologous transfusion 2.8 +/- 1.1 h later. There was a decrease in the fibrinogen content in arterial blood from 2.17 +/- 0.35 g/l to 1.23 +/- 0.42 g/l, which followed a 40% haemodilution estimated from the blood loss of 1.6 +/- 0.9 l during the operation. Drained blood contained high concentrations of D-dimer (85 +/- 53 mg/l from the wound and 121 +/- 47 mg/l from the collection system), but no clottable fibrinogen. The Western immunoblots all visualized the same patterns; in drained blood there were split-products mainly from cross-linked fibrin, in contrast to arterial blood which contained only normal fibrinogen. This indicates a strong fibrinolysis in the surgical wound after closure, with concentrations of fibrin degradation products that may impair local coagulation, and if infused, might interfere with general haemostasis.
Intraoperative autologous transfusion (erythrocyte saving) in surgery for scoliosis. A case-controlled study]	A Haemonatics Cell Saver 3+ was used for intraoperative autologous transfusion in a case control study of 20 patients with idiopathic adolescent scoliosis. Ten of the patients were treated surgically by Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation (CDI) with intraoperative autologous transfusion and ten patients were submitted to Harrington' method of operation with device for transverse traction (DTT). In the CDI group the mean peroperative blood loss was 1,700 ml and a mean of 804 ml or 69% was transfused intraoperatively with a hematocrit of 60%. Out of a total blood loss of 2,701 ml 44% of the red blood-cells were autotransfused in all. Seven patients did not required blood transfusion and two patients did not require blood transfusion postoperatively. In the Harrington group the mean total blood loss the was 2,390 ml and the mean peroperative blood loss was 1,715 ml. The total requirement for transfusion was 34 units peroperative and 15 units postoperatively. In a series of ten patients submitted to operative treatment for scoliosis, the need for blood transfusion was reduced by 49% compared with a control group.
Serum cartilage metabolites as biomarkers of degenerative lumbar scoliosis.	Several biomarkers have been used to evaluate osteoarthritis of the limb joints. Here we evaluated the use of serum cartilage metabolites as biomarkers for degenerative lumbar scoliosis (DLS). Fifty-two DLS patients with Cobb angle > 10° were compared with 19 control patients. Serum levels of hyaluronic acid (HA), keratan sulfate (KS), cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP), collagen type II cleavage (C2C), and procollagen type II C-propeptide (CPII) were measured. Serum levels of KS (DLS 1.20 ± 0.44 µg/ml vs. control 0.98 ± 0.33 µg/ml), CPII (DLS 1905.1 ± 948.2 ng/ml vs. control 1223.6 ± 884.4 ng/ml), and C2C (DLS 219.1 ± 59.2 ng/ml vs. control 177.7 ± 71.7 ng/ml) were significantly higher in DLS. There were no significant differences in the levels of HA or COMP. There was a significant positive correlation between the Cobb angle and CPII in DLS. This is the first study to evaluate the cartilage biomarkers in DLS. The results suggest DLS patients have higher levels of type II collagen synthesis and degradation, indicated by elevated serum CPII and C2C, respectively. As type II collagen is a major component of collagens in the nucleus pulposus and facet joint cartilages, its enhanced turnover may be related to the development and progression of DLS.
Cell-based assay protocol for the prognostic prediction of idiopathic scoliosis using cellular dielectric spectroscopy.	This protocol details the experimental and analytical procedure for a cell-based assay developed in our laboratory as a functional test to predict the prognosis of idiopathic scoliosis in asymptomatic and affected children. The assay consists of the evaluation of the functional status of Gi and Gs proteins in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) by cellular dielectric spectroscopy (CDS), using an automated CDS-based instrument, and the classification of children into three functional groups (FG1, FG2, FG3) with respect to the profile of imbalance between the degree of response to Gi and Gs proteins stimulation. The classification is further confirmed by the differential effect of osteopontin (OPN) on response to Gi stimulation among groups and the severe progression of disease is referenced by FG2. Approximately, a volume of 10 ml of blood is required to extract PBMCs by Ficoll-gradient and cells are then stored in liquid nitrogen. The adequate number of PBMCs to perform the assay is obtained after two days of cell culture. Essentially, cells are first incubated with phytohemmaglutinin (PHA). After 24 hr incubation, medium is replaced by a PHA-free culture medium for an additional 24 hr prior to cell seeding and OPN treatment. Cells are then spectroscopically screened for their responses to somatostatin and isoproterenol, which respectively activate Gi and Gs proteins through their cognate receptors. Both somatostatin and isoproterenol are simultaneously injected with an integrated fluidics system and the cells' responses are monitored for 15 min. The assay can be performed with fresh or frozen PBMCs and the procedure is completed within 4 days. 
Contractile protein studies on platelets from patients with idiopathic scoliosis.	Measurements of total proteins, myosin, actin, actin-binding protein, and ATPase activity of myosin were examined in platelets from patients with idiopathic scoliosis and from healthy individuals. Abnormalities in the distribution of total and contractile proteins were revealed after fractionations. The insoluble fraction of the patients' platelets had a higher, and the cytosol fraction had a lower than normal protein content. Similar differences were observed in the specific activity of myosin ATPase. These findings show that in patients with idiopathic scoliosis platelet defects exist and that their study might be useful in research of the disease.
Alkaline phosphatase as a biochemical maturity index in female adolescence.	The relationship between alkaline phosphatase activity and conventional bone maturity factors (chronologic age, half-yearly and yearly height increases), Risser sign, menarche, and the number of months elapsed after menarche) was analyzed in 276 female patients with scoliosis, ages 9 to 17 years. Alkaline phosphatase showed a very high correlation with these maturity factors. Incorporation of the alkaline phosphatase evaluation in the idex for assessing the bone maturity or residual physical growth in adolescent females may enable physicians to make a more accurate clinical assessment. [Classifying (normal: 10 unit (U) by Kind-King method): Group 1 (> 25 U) and Group 2 (25 U > or = > 20 U) as the growth period, Groups 3 and 4 (20 U > or = > 10 U) as the growth transition period, and Group 5 (10 U > or =) as the growth completion period]
Serial serum protein determinations in scoliotic children treated by spine fusion and autotransfusion.	In a longitudinal study, serum protein levels were determined by more than 1200 radial immunodiffusion assays in fifty pediatric scoliotic patients whose blood replacement during spine fusion was provided by predeposition autotransfusion. Several serial samples of serum were obtained at intervals from the time of admission through surgery and discharge and they were examined for eight serum proteins: IgG, IgA, IgM, albumin, transferrin, C3c (B1A globulin), beta-lipoprotein, and alpha2-macroglobulin. The results indicated that neither the three phlebotomies performed to obtain predeposition autologuus blood for reinfusion nor the loss of blood during surgery resulted in significant alteration of any of the serum protein levels at the sampling times tested. The greatest decreases in the serum concentrations of all eight proteins were observed during the early postoperative recovery period.
