Kinematics of the chest cage and spine during breathing in healthy individuals and in patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.	The lung function test by a Plethysmograph enabled calculations to be made of the total lung capacity and vital capacity. A Motion Analysis System (Elite, BTS Inc., Milano, Italy) was used to observe and record chest cage and spinal movements and as to correlate lung function with the chest cage and spine kinematics.
Anaesthetic implications of rigid spine syndrome.	The perioperative management of a 14-year-old girl, suffering from the muscular disorder rigid spine syndrome, is presented. The anaesthetic implications with regard to possible difficult intubation, cardiac involvement, malignant hyperthermia, neuromuscular blocking agents, and postoperative recovery are discussed.
Comparative study of propofol and midazolam effects on somatosensory evoked potentials during surgical treatment of scoliosis.	Studies of the effects on lower-limb cortical somatosensory evoked potentials (CSEP) during total intravenous anesthesia are sparse for propofol and are lacking for midazolam. This study was designed to compare the effects of propofol and midazolam on CSEP under total intravenous anesthesia during intraoperative monitoring for surgical treatment of scoliosis.
Factors that influence outcome in bracing large curves in patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.	A retrospective review of 51 patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) treated with a Boston brace for curves ranging from 36 degrees to 45 degrees.
Evaluation of lumbar spine bone mineral density in the anteroposterior and lateral projections by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry.	Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) is an established method for estimating bone mineral density (BMD) of the lumbar spine. In a prospective study, the sensitivity of BMD measurements between anteroposterior and lateral projections were evaluated in 204 postmenopausal women based on their DXA analysis. Patients were divided into two groups according to the absence or presence of lumbar scoliosis. Lateral projection DXA measurements were more sensitive than AP projection measurements for early detection of bone loss in postmenopausal women. Lateral projection DXA analysis is not recommended in spines with lumbar scoliosis.
Adolescents undergoing surgery for idiopathic scoliosis: how physical and psychological characteristics relate to patient satisfaction with the cosmetic result.	Patient satisfaction with the cosmetic result of spinal fusion surgery was studied in 42 cases of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. Neutral or dissatisfied patients were compared with satisfied patients on several physical and psychological characteristics.
Design of thoracolumbosacral orthosis (TLSO) braces using CT/MR.	The field of orthotics has gained scientific attention over the last few years. Its objective is to correct, adjust, or modify the operation of human limbs, joints, or muscles. Thoracolumbosacral orthosis (TLSO) braces are used by scoliosis and postoperative patients who need back correction and/or support. The anatomic dimensions for TLSO braces have been acquired mainly by casting the patient. Casting is a time-proven method for obtaining surface geometry, but it can be inconvenient in certain situations. For example, casting might not be suitable for postoperative and trauma patients owing to the risk of further injury. Such prohibitive cases can still be handled safely by X-ray CT or MR scanning. This article presents an alternative method for data acquisition of TLSO patients' anatomic dimensions using CT/MRI. The experimental results show the method to be statistically accurate, efficient, and feasible compared with the conventional casting method.
Traction versus side-bending radiographs: is the proximal thoracic curve the stiffer curve in double thoracic curves?	This is a consecutive study of patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis requiring surgical intervention. The purpose was to determine the best radiographic method of evaluating the flexibility of the proximal thoracic (PT) curve in patients with a double thoracic curve pattern. The PT curve averaged 40 degrees (range, 27 degrees-67 degrees) on posteroanterior (PA) radiographs, 30 degrees (range, 12 degrees60 degrees) on supine side-bending radiographs, and 24 degrees (range, 8 degrees -55 degrees) on traction radiographs. The flexibility index (FI) for the PT curve was 0.72 (range, 0.40-0.96) on side-bending and 0.58 (range, 0.29-0.82) on traction. The main thoracic (MT) curve averaged 62 degrees (range, 45 degrees-102 degrees) on PA, 40 degrees (range, 19 degrees-88 degrees) on supine side-bending, and 35 degrees (range, 17 degrees-76 degrees) on traction radiographs. The FI for the MT curve was 0.62 (range, 0.30-0.89) on side bending and 0.56 (range, 0.32-0.81) on traction. There was a statistically significant difference between the flexibility of the PT curve on supine traction as compared with the side-bending films (P<0.0005). Comparison of the MT curve flexibility with the PT curve demonstrated the PT curve to be less flexible in 11 of 15 cases (P = 0.16). The authors conclude that for double thoracic curve patterns, the PT curve is usually the smaller, yet often the stiffer curve. Furthermore, the supine traction radiograph demonstrates greater flexibility of the PT curve than does the supine side-bending radiograph. Clinically, this may assist scoliosis surgeons in assessing the PT curve and achieving a stable, balanced spine.
Variability of somatosensory evoked potential monitoring during scoliosis surgery.	Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) of 65 patients undergoing scoliosis surgery were monitored by stimulation of posterior tibial nerve to observe variations in latencies and amplitudes.
Analysis of pulmonary function and axis rotation in adolescent and young adult idiopathic scoliosis patients treated with Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation.	Forty-eight patients with idiopathic scoliosis underwent posterior spinal fusion with Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation (CDI). Each patient was given preoperative and postoperative pulmonary function tests (PFTs). Pulmonary volume improved a mean 0.40 L (16%), and pulmonary flow improved a mean 0.33 L (15%). Differences between preoperative and postoperative PFT values were shown to be statistically significant and correlated well with coronal side-bending correction. Twenty patients had preoperative and postoperative CT scans through the apical vertebra. Vertebral rotation was assessed on CT scan by the method of Aaro and Dahlborn (1,2). At the apex, the mean percentage improvements in the longitudinal axis rotation relative to the midline (16%) and to the sagittal plane (10%), the rib hump index (8%), and the kyphosis-lordosis index (0%) were minimal. Radiographically, the 66% mean improvement in apical vertebral translation was more substantial and consistent than the 10% mean improvement in apical vertebral rotation. Therefore, at the apex the CDI "derotation maneuver" may be more of a "translational maneuver."
Sleep in the patient with lung disease.	Normal sleep is associated with changes in respiration. The impact of sleep on patients with underlying lung disease may be significant depending on the severity of the underlying disease. Nocturnal oxygen desaturation may complicate the management of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, interstitial lung disease, and kyphoscoliosis. Nocturnal bronchospasm may develop in patients with asthma. The impact of sleep on these four disorders, as well as diagnostic and therapeutic considerations, are reviewed.
Prediction of curve progression in a goat scoliosis model.	Currently, prediction of progression in scoliosis is accomplished by analysis of several factors, which provide only a broad percentage chance, rather than an accurate risk assessment, of deformity progression. A model for prediction of scoliosis progression was investigated using an experimental scoliosis: A goat model was used to predict curve progression based on the percentage of vertebral body wedging in the region of maximal deformity.
A model for studies of the deformable rib cage.	An earlier model for the study of rib cage mechanics was modified so that rib deformity in scoliosis could be better represented. The rigid ribs of that model were replaced by five-segment deformable ribs. Literature data on cadaver rib mechanical behavior were used to assign stiffnesses to the new individual model ribs so that experimental and model rib deflections agreed. Shear and tension/compression stiffnesses had little effect on individual rib deformation, but bending stiffnesses had a major effect. Level-to-level differences in mechanical behavior could be explained almost exclusively by level to level differences in the rib shape. The model ribs were then assembled into a whole rib cage. Computer simulations of whole rib cage behaviors, both in vivo and in vitro, showed a reasonable agreement with the measured behaviors. The model was used to study rib cage mechanics in two scolioses, one with a 43 degrees and the other with a 70 degrees Cobb angle. Scoliotic rib cage deformities were quantified by parameters measuring the rib cage lateral offset, rib cage axial rotation, rib cage volume and rib distortion. Rib distortion was quantified both in best-fit and simulated computer tomography (CT) scan planes. Model rib distortion was much smaller in best-fit planes than in CT planes. The total rib cage volume changed little in the presence of the scolioses, but it became asymmetrically distributed.
Lateral translation of the lumbar spine: in vitro biomechanical study.	A biomechanical study of lateral translation in lumbar spine with human cadavers was performed in order to explore the direction of the force increasing lateral translation and the contributions of discs and facet joints to lateral translation. Whole lumbar spines from 12 fresh cadavers were attached to a specially designed loading apparatus whose five cables simulated the muscles of the trunk without restricting natural movement. Three-dimensional positions of each vertebra were recorded with position-sensitive detectors. Force in the anterolateral direction increased the lateral translation more than force in the posterolateral direction. Lateral translation was increased to a significantly greater extent when the facet joints were removed than when the discs were removed at L4-5 at the levels of shear loading applied in this study.
Minimum 10 years follow-up surgical results of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patients treated with TSRH instrumentation.	Last two decades witnessed great advances in the surgical treatment of idiopathic scoliosis. However, the number of studies evaluating the long-term results of these treatment methods is relatively low. During recent years, besides radiological and clinical studies, questionnaires like SRS-22 assessing subjective functional and mental status and life-quality of patients have gained importance for the evaluation of these results. In this study, surgical outcome and Turkish SRS-22 questionnaire results of 109 late-onset adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patients surgically treated with third-generation instrumentation [Texas Scottish Rite Hospital (TSRH) System] and followed for a minimum of 10 years were evaluated. The balance was analyzed clinically and radiologically by the measurement of the lateral trunk shift (LT), shift of head (SH), and shift of stable vertebra (SS). Mean age of the patients was 14.4+/-1.9 and mean follow-up period was 136.9+/-12.7 months. When all the patients were included, the preoperative mean Cobb angle of major curves in the frontal plane was 60.8 degrees +/-17.5 degrees . Major curves that were corrected by 38.7+/-22.1% in the bending radiograms, postoperatively achieved a correction of 64.0+/-15.8%. At the last follow-up visit, 10.3 degrees +/-10.8 degrees of correction loss was recorded in major curves in the frontal plane with 50.5+/-23.1% final correction rate. Also, the mean postoperative and final kyphosis angles and lumbar lordosis angles were 37.7 degrees +/-7.4 degrees , 37.0 degrees +/-8.4 degrees , 37.5 degrees +/-8.7 degrees , and 36.3 degrees +/-8.5 degrees , respectively. A statistically significant correction was obtained at the sagittal plane; mean postoperative changes compared to preoperative values were 7.9 degrees and 12.9 degrees for thoracic and lumbar regions, respectively. On the other hand, normal physiological thoracic and lumbar sagittal contours were achieved in 83.5% and 67.9% of the patients, respectively. Postoperatively, a statistically significant correction was obtained in LT, SH, and SS values (P<0.05). Although, none of the patients had completely balanced curves preoperatively, in 95.4% of the patients the curves were found to be completely balanced or clinically well balanced postoperatively. This rate was maintained at the last follow-up visit. Overall, four patients (3.7%) had implant failure. Early superficial infection was observed in three (2.8%) patients. Radiologically presence of significant consolidation, absence of implant failure, and correction loss, and clinical relief of pain were considered as the proof of a posterior solid fusion mass. About ten (9.2%) patients were considered to have pseudoarthrosis: four patients with implant failure and six patients with correction loss over 15 degrees at the frontal plane. About four (3.7%) patients among the first 20 patients had neurological deficit only wake-up test was used for neurological monitoring of these patients. No neurological deficit was observed in the 89 patients for whom intraoperative neurological monitoring with SSEP and TkMMEP was performed. Overall, average scores of SRS-22 questionnaire for general self-image, function, mental status, pain, and satisfaction from treatment were 3.8+/-0.7, 3.6+/-0.7, 4.0+/-0.8, 3.6+/-0.8, and 4.6+/-0.3, respectively at the last follow-up visit. Results of about 10 years of follow-up these patients treated with TSRH instrumentation suggest that the method is efficient for the correction of frontal and sagittal plane deformities and trunk balance. In addition, it results in a better life-quality.
Maturity assessment and curve progression in girls with idiopathic scoliosis.	Scoliosis progression during adolescence is closely related to patient maturity. Maturity has various indicators, including chronological age, height and weight changes, and skeletal and sexual maturation. It is not certain which of these indicators correlates most strongly with scoliosis progression. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate various maturity measurements and how they relate to scoliosis progression.
Locomotor skills and balance strategies in adolescents idiopathic scoliosis.	Locomotor balance control assessment was performed to study the effect of idiopathic scoliosis on head-trunk coordination in 17 patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) and 16 control subjects.
Factors of thoracic cage deformity that affect pulmonary function in adolescent idiopathic thoracic scoliosis.	This clinical study examined the association between pulmonary function and thoracic cage deformities in scoliosis.
Interbody fusion with allograft and rhBMP-2 leads to consistent fusion but early subsidence.	We carried out a prospective study to determine whether the addition of a recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein (rhBMP-2) to a machined allograft spacer would improve the rate of intervertebral body fusion in the spine. We studied 77 patients who were to undergo an interbody fusion with allograft and instrumentation. The first 36 patients received allograft with adjuvant rhBMP-2 (allograft/rhBMP-2 group), and the next 41, allograft and demineralised bone matrix (allograft/demineralised bone matrix group). Each patient was assessed clinically and radiologically both pre-operatively and at each follow-up visit using standard methods. Follow-up continued for two years. Every patient in the allograft/rhBMP-2 group had fused by six months. However, early graft lucency and significant (> 10%) subsidence were seen radiologically in 27 of 55 levels in this group. The mean graft height subsidence was 27% (13% to 42%) for anterior lumbar interbody fusion, 24% (13% to 40%) for transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion, and 53% (40% to 58%) for anterior cervical discectomy and fusion. Those who had undergone fusion using allograft and demineralised bone matrix lost only a mean of 4.6% (0% to 15%) of their graft height. Although a high rate of fusion (100%) was achieved with rhBMP-2, significant subsidence occurred in more than half of the levels (23 of 37) in the lumbar spine and 33% (6 of 18) in the cervical spine. A 98% fusion rate (62 of 63 levels) was achieved without rhBMP-2 and without the associated graft subsidence. Consequently, we no longer use rhBMP-2 with allograft in our practice if the allograft has to provide significant structural support.
Virtual prototyping of a brace design for the correction of scoliotic deformities.	Based on a three-dimensional patient-specific finite element model of the spine, rib cage, pelvis and abdomen, a parametric model of a thoraco-lumbo-sacral orthosis (TLSO) was built. Its geometry is custom-fit to the patient. The rigid shell, pads and openings are all represented. The interaction between the trunk and the brace is modeled by a point-to-surface contact interface. During the nonlinear simulation process, the brace is opened, positioned on the patient and strap tension is applied. A TLSO similar to Boston brace system was built for a right-thoracic scoliotic patient. The influences of the trochanter pad and strap tension on the 3-D geometrical corrections and on the forces generated by the brace were evaluated. The role of the trochanter pad as a lever arm is confirmed by the model. The brace induces a reduction of the lordosis and pelvic tilt. The reduction of the frontal curvature is about 20% for a strap tension of 60 N. Axial rotation does not significantly change and rib hump is worsened. By using an explicit brace model and a contact interface, a more realistic simulation of orthotic treatment of scoliosis can be achieved. The stabilization of the brace on the patient can be represented and less restrictive boundary conditions can be applied. This model could be used to study the effect of design parameters on the brace efficiency.
Back muscles biometry in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.	Many studies have been devoted to the role of back muscle activity in the development of scoliosis. While an imbalance in the electromyographic (EMG) activity has often been detected at the skin surface, very little information is available on the mechanisms by which such an imbalance could take place. To gain insight into those mechanisms, an important step could be the collection of anatomical data on the volume of the erector spinae muscle on both sides of the spine as well as on the skin and subcutaneous fat (skinfold) thickness separating those muscles from the body surface. For this purpose, the use of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is appropriate.
The correlation comparison of vertebral axial rotation relative to curvature and torsion in scoliosis by simplified 3D spine model.	This paper reports a study on correlation comparison of the vertebral axial rotation relative to curvature and torsion of scoliotic spine. The goal of this study is to understand whether the vertebral axial rotation is more correlated to the curvature or to the torsion of the scoliosis spinal deformity. For this purpose, the simplified 3D spine models are constructed on the randomly chosen images of scoliosis patients. The 3D spine model is based on two orthogonal spinal radiographic images taken from coronal and sagittal planes. Superimposed on these two images, the 3D Bezier curves are fitted interactively onto the center of the spine on both coronal and sagittal images. Upon the 3D Bezier Curve fitting, a series of simplified 3D vertebrae are implemented onto the 3D Bezier Curve proportional in size to its axis. The curvature and torsion then are obtained by difference quotients algorithm. In determining the vertebral axial rotation, the measurements are conducted directly on the coronal spine images. The lateral margins and centers of pedicles are used as landmarks for the rotation calculation. The correlation coefficients are calculated from both vertebral axial rotation relative to the curvature and to the torsion found on each vertebra. The strength of correlations from both cases is compared in the table.
Body mass index in girls with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis]	To investigate body weight and the body mass index (BMI) in girls with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS).
Convexity of scoliosis related to handedness in identical twin boys with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy: a case report.	The interplay between hand dominance and directionality of scoliosis in boys with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy (DMD) is not clearly defined. We describe an extremely rare presentation of monozygotic twin boys with DMD and opposing hand dominance who developed major spine curvature with opposite convexities. The unique clinical presentation of progressive neuromuscular disease and scoliosis in monozygotic twins should allow for a unique evaluation of some of the contributory factors associated with the development of neuromuscular scoliosis in DMD. In this case report, we explore the pathophysiology involved in neuromuscular scoliosis, examine the role of conservative, surgical, and medical treatments, and discuss potential future avenues of research.
Surgical treatment of double major scoliosis. Improvement of the lumbar curve after fusion of the thoracic curve.	We have evaluated two methods of surgical treatment of adolescent idiopathic double major scoliosis in 59 patients. In group 1, 31 patients were treated by fusion of the upper curve only. In group 2, 28 patients had lumbar fusions also including most of the lower curve. The magnitude of the lower curve and the correction obtained in traction were good indicators of the correction achieved postoperatively. Forty-four patients were reviewed at a minimum of 10 years after operation. Those in group 1 showed sustained improvement of the lower curve with minimal stiffness and pain. Group 2 patients had lumbar curves of similar severity at review, but had significantly more low back pain and stiffness. The number of lumbar segments which remained mobile appeared to be a critical factor in determining the outcome. Selective fusion of the upper curve in double major scoliosis produces satisfactory results if the lumbar curve is less than 50 degrees. It may also be appropriate for flexible lumbar curves of larger angle.
Impaired exercise capacity in adults with moderate scoliosis.	We measured lung function and exercise tolerance in 15 adults with moderate kyphoscoliosis (thoracic curvatures between 25 degrees and 70 degrees, mean +/- SD = 46.93 degrees +/- 14.02 degrees). Forced vital capacity showed a slight reduction from values predicted from age and sex matched control subjects (3.39 +/- 1.06 vs 4.06 +/- 0.82 L, p less than 0.05). However, exercise tolerance was significantly lower than previously reported in healthy adults (VO2max = 31.60 +/- 9.12 vs 37.07 +/- 4.91 ml/kg/min, p less than 0.05). Despite the reduced exercise tolerance, the ratio of maximum tidal volume to vital capacity (VTmax/VC) was similar to that observed in healthy adults. The mean dyspnea index (VEmax/MVV) was also normal at 69.4 +/- 19.0. Hypoxic and hypercapnic ventilatory responses were within predicted normal limits at 0.67 +/- 0.37 L/min-1 fall in SaO2-1 and 1.67 +/- 0.92 L/min-1 mm Hg PCO2(-1). We conclude that the impairment of exercise performance found in adults with moderate scoliosis cannot be attributed to any important ventilatory limitation, abnormality in lung volume, or impaired chemoreceptor sensitivity. We suggest that the reduced VO2max likely arises from deconditioning and lack of regular aerobic exercise.
Reduction of lumbar scoliosis by use of a heel lift to level the sacral base.	The relationship between unlevelness of the sacral base and scoliosis is unclear. A method for reducing mild lateral bend of the lumbar spine by use of a heel lift to level the sacral base was tested in adults. Special methods were used to demonstrate the weight-bearing plane of the sacral base and the angle of lateral bend radiographically. The procedure significantly decreased the unlevelness of the sacral base and significantly reduced the angle of lateral bend. The results suggest that an unlevel sacral base contributes to lumbar scoliosis and that use of a heel lift to level the sacral base in mild cases of lumbar scoliosis can be beneficial.
Imbalance of electromyographic activity and physical rehabilitation of patients with idiopathic scoliosis.	In order to monitor changes in postural performance capacity in patients with idiopathic scoliosis after an intensive in-patient Schroth rehabilitation programme lasting several weeks, we undertook electromyographic investigations in 316 patients with a mean age of 20 years (range 8-76 years) and a mean Cobb curvature angle of 38.2 degrees (range 10 degrees-147 degrees). Electromyographic activity was recorded by means of surface electrodes in the thoracic and lumbar region at the level of the apical vertebra, paravertebrally on both sides of the erector spinae muscle during trunk lifting from the prone position. Two hundred and fifty-nine recordings without artefacts were evaluated. Significant reductions in muscle activity of 6.85% in the thoracic convex region (P < 0.05) and of 14.2% (P < 0.001) on the lumbar convex side were found. The activity quotient (convesx/concave) was reduced by 11.99% (P<0.001) in the thoracic region and by 7.91% (P<0.01) in the lumbar region. These findings confirm the improvement of postural performance capacity after an intensive in-patient Schroth rehabilitation programme. As the imbalance of electromyographic activity may be influenced by scoliosis-specific exercises leading to a highly significant reduction of the Cobb angle, it is assumed to be secondary to the development of the scoliotic curve and may not be a primary factor in the aetiology of idiopathic scoliosis.
Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis: is rising growth rate the triggering factor in progression?	The school scoliosis screening programme at Our Lady's Hospital for Sick Children, Dublin, has provided material for an ongoing prospective natural history study of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. An examination of the clinical course in 339 girls showed that observation of progression of at least 10 degrees, which occurred in 46 girls (13.6%), depended on the timing of diagnosis and related primarily to the child's position on her growth rate curve and her pubertal status, and much less to skeletal maturity as interpreted by iliac crest ossification or bone age. This has implications for the understanding of results in conservative management, screening programmes and natural history.
Segmental vertebral rotation in early scoliosis.	In order to investigate the development of the vertebral axial rotation in patients with early scoliosis, the vertebral rotation angle (VRA) was quantified on the basis of 132 anteroposterior radiographs obtained from patients with diagnosed or suspected scoliosis. The rotation was measured in the apical vertebra and in the two suprajacent and two subjacent vertebrae. The radiographic material was divided into a control reference group and three scoliotic groups with varying Cobb angle from 4 degrees up to 30 degrees. In the reference group a slight vertebral rotation was significantly more often seen to the right. In the scoliotic groups, the rotation was most pronounced in the apical segments. The mean VRA toward the convex side was significantly increased in the vertebrae just suprajacent to the apex in curves with a Cobb angle of 8 degrees-15 degrees and in the cranial four vertebrae in curves with a Cobb angle of 16 degrees-30 degrees. Atypical vertebral rotation to the opposite side of the major curve was observed in 12.8% of the cases. There was a significant positive correlation between the VRA and the Cobb angle. These results show that a slight VRA to the right is a common feature in the normal spine, and that the VRA increases with progressive lateral deviation of the spine. It is concluded that the coronal plane deformity in early idiopathic scoliosis is accompanied and probably coupled to vertebral rotation in the horizontal plane.
Intraoperative three dimensional correction during in situ contouring surgery by using a numerical model.	A numerical study was conducted by simulating in situ contouring (ISC) surgery.
Comparison of supine bending, push-prone, and traction under general anesthesia radiographs in predicting curve flexibility and postoperative correction in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.	A prospective study comparing supine bending, push-prone, and traction under general anesthesia (UGA) radiographs in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.
Risk-benefit assessment of surgery for adult scoliosis: an analysis based on patient age.	Retrospective review of a prospective, multicenter database.
Idiopathic scoliosis: relations between the Cobb angle and the dynamical strategies when sitting on a seesaw.	The aim of this study was to determine the influence of the severity of the spinal curve on the postural regulation when self-imposed disturbances occur in a seated position in anteroposterior (AP) and mediolateral (ML) orientations. Twelve female adolescents with a right thoracic scoliosis (Cobb = 30.4° ± 9.7) were included in this study. The ground reaction forces (GRF) were studied while the subjects were maintaining their sitting on a seesaw (ML or AP destabilisation). Five conditions were tested: eyes open; with additional loads placed onto the subject's right or left shoulder; or onto the subject's right or left pelvis. We tested the correlation between the Cobb angle and the postural parameters (index of performance and GRF variability) for each condition. When the destabilisation was AP, the Cobb angle was significantly correlated with GRF variability and anterior and concavity index of performance. Two conditions showed higher correlations: stabilisation with the concavity pelvis load (GRF variability) and the open eyes (index of performance). In contrast, whatever the condition tested was, no link was found when the destabilisations were applied in ML direction. The destabilisation in a seated position highlights the influence of the curve severity on the postural organisation. In seated position, the postural control strategies specific to the scoliotic patients were always correlated by severity of curve, especially when the destabilisation is applied in AP directions. This study showed that the unstable seating position can be considered as a pertinent paradigm to help finding a postural clinical index for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.
Timing of menarche in Chinese girls with and without adolescent idiopathic scoliosis: current results and review of the literature.	Age at menarche is closely related to scoliosis progression during adolescence. Current data concerning the timing of menarche between scoliotic and non-scoliotic girls in the literature are conflicting, with inconclusive results. The aim of this study was to investigate the distribution difference of age at menarche for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) girls and normal control population and to subsequently elucidate the menarche age difference through literature reviewing. Moreover, menarche age of AIS girls with Cobb angle <40°, 40-60°, >60° were compared to estimate its association with curve severity. Menstrual status data were available for 6,376 healthy female adolescents and 2,196 AIS girls. We notice that less than 10% of healthy Chinese girls experienced onset of menses before 11.38 years, and approximately 90% of healthy Chinese girls were menstruating by 13.88 years, with a median age of 12.63 years. As for AIS girls, less than 10% started to menstruate before 11.27 years, and approximately 90% were menstruating by 14.38 years, with a median age of 12.83 years. Average menarche age in AIS (12.83 ± 1.22 years) was significantly later than that of normal control girls (12.63 ± 0.98 years) (p < 0.001). Age at menarche for AIS affected girls was significantly greater than that of normal control girls at 75%, 90% of whom had attained menarche (p = 0.001, p < 0.001). Proportion of girls starting to menstruate after 14 years was significantly higher in AIS population compared with normal controls (16.3 vs. 8.1%, p < 0.001). In addition, AIS girls with Cobb angle >60° experienced onset of menses at an average age of 13.25 years, which was significantly later than AIS girls with Cobb angle <40° (12.81 years, p < 0.05) and marginally significantly later than AIS girls with Cobb angle between 40 and 60° (12.86 years, p = 0.053). In conclusion, a tendency of delayed onset of menarche was observed in Chinese idiopathic scoliotic girls in this large sample study, especially for girls with Cobb angle >60°, which is supported by multiple previously established positive linkages on AIS etiology studies. Accordingly it is believed that late menarche may contribute importantly to abnormal pubertal growth and subsequently modulate curve behavior in AIS.
Postural control strategies related to anticipatory perturbation and quick perturbation in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.	Cross-sectional study.
A new method to include the gravitational forces in a finite element model of the scoliotic spine.	The distribution of stresses in the scoliotic spine is still not well known despite its biomechanical importance in the pathomechanisms and treatment of scoliosis. Gravitational forces are one of the sources of these stresses. Existing finite element models (FEMs), when considering gravity, applied these forces on a geometry acquired from radiographs while the patient was already subjected to gravity, which resulted in a deformed spine different from the actual one. A new method to include gravitational forces on a scoliotic trunk FEM and compute the stresses in the spine was consequently developed. The 3D geometry of three scoliotic patients was acquired using a multi-view X-ray 3D reconstruction technique and surface topography. The FEM of the patients' trunk was created using this geometry. A simulation process was developed to apply the gravitational forces at the centers of gravity of each vertebra level. First the "zero-gravity" geometry was determined by applying adequate upwards forces on the initial geometry. The stresses were reset to zero and then the gravity forces were applied to compute the geometry of the spine subjected to gravity. An optimization process was necessary to find the appropriate zero-gravity and gravity geometries. The design variables were the forces applied on the model to find the zero-gravity geometry. After optimization the difference between the vertebral positions acquired from radiographs and the vertebral positions simulated with the model was inferior to 3 mm. The forces and compressive stresses in the scoliotic spine were then computed. There was an asymmetrical load in the coronal plane, particularly, at the apices of the scoliotic curves. Difference of mean compressive stresses between concavity and convexity of the scoliotic curves ranged between 0.1 and 0.2 MPa. In conclusion, a realistic way of integrating gravity in a scoliotic trunk FEM was developed and stresses due to gravity were explicitly computed. This is a valuable improvement for further biomechanical modeling studies of scoliosis.
Treatment of lumbar curves in scoliotic adolescent females with progressive action short brace: a case series based on the Scoliosis Research Society Committee Criteria.	A prospective interventional study.
Corrective force analysis for scoliosis from implant rod deformation.	Scoliosis is a serious disease in which a human spine is abnormally deformed in three dimensions with vertebral rotation. Surgical treatment is attained when the scoliotic spine is corrected into its normal shape by implant rods and screws fixed into the vertebrae. The three-dimensional corrective forces acting at the screws deformed the implant rod during the surgical treatment of scoliosis. The objective of this study was to propose a method to analyze the three-dimensional forces acting at the rod using the changes of implant rod geometry before and after the surgical treatment.
Neuropathological aspects of conservative treatment of scoliosis. A theoretical view point.	An upright body posture cannot be maintained passively for reasons including a high location of the centre of gravity (COG) and a small support area. Proper alignment of body parts is maintained automatically, tending towards a pattern encoded in the CNS. A particularly important role in posture regulation is played by the short muscles of the back, which respond to being stretched with a contraction. During the early phase of scoliosis, the CNS automatically corrects abnormalities, but over time habituation occurs and the CNS treats them as something normal. Any attempt to restore proper body alignment is treated as an error and CNS automatically restores this abnormal pattern. With a prolonged deviation in body part alignment, CNS treats it as a defect and runs compensatory mechanisms to restore the balance of the body as a whole. Balance is ensured by postural compensation, but this does not restore proper body part alignment. In the treatment of scoliosis, it is important both to slow down progression and to prevent the development of abnormal postural habits, which are part of a vicious circle even without progression. Secondary prevention is therefore needed in all patients. Passive observation limits the possibilities for prevention and contradicts the principle of early implementation of rehabilitation. Depending on the size of the angle of curvature, recommended treatments of scoliosis comprise observation, corset bracing, and surgery. Physiotherapy is often treated as an unconventional and ineffective treatment. Often, the biggest problem is transferring the resulting correction to automatic maintenance of a correct posture in the vertical position. The aim of this paper was to discuss the conservative treatment of scoliosis with regard to difficulties maintaining the correct alignment of the body parts in the vertical position that accompany scoliosis.
Comparative analysis of hook, hybrid, and pedicle screw instrumentation in the posterior treatment of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.	Spinal instrumentation in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) aims to correct spinal deformity and maintain long-term spinal stability until bony healing is ensured. The purpose of this study was to compare the minimum 2-year postoperative radiographic and clinical results of posterior spine correction and fusion with all-hook instrumentation versus hybrid segmental instrumentation versus pedicle screw instrumentation for AIS from a single institution.
Spinal cord position in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.	The use of thoracic pedicle screws in deformity surgery provides a stable fixation system. The concept of acceptably positioned screws includes a worrisome subset of screws that perforate the medial pedicle cortex and may result in some compromise of the spinal canal. A significant higher incidence of cortical wall penetration on the concave side compared with the convex was previously found. Although several authors assumed that the spinal cord hugs the concave pedicles when the spinal deformity is scoliosis, the position of spinal cord in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) has not been studied in depth.
Pulmonary function in patients with hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy: a comparison of patients with and without spinal deformity.	We assessed pulmonary function in hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy. Fourteen neuropathy patients without spinal deformity (group 1), 14 with spinal deformity (group 2), and 16 individuals with idiopathic spinal deformity (group 3) matched to group 2 for age, height and Cobb angle, were included. Hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy severity was measured with Charcot-Marie-Tooth Neuropathy Score. All participants exhibited mild decrease in maximal inspiratory pressure at the mouth. One-way analysis of variance yielded significant main effects for lung volumes - slow vital capacity, forced expiratory volume in 1s, and total lung capacity (p's<.01), attributable to greater volumes in group 1 compared to groups with spinal deformity - and transfer factor for carbon monoxide (p=.013), reflecting differences between groups 1 vs. 2. Slow vital capacity and total lung capacity correlated with maximal inspiratory pressure at the mouth in group 2, whereas slow vital capacity correlated with muscle work in group 3 (p's<.05). Decreased lung volume may be due to impaired respiratory muscle strength in hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy with spinal deformity and due to spinal deformity in idiopathic patients.
Bone mineral density differences between femurs of scoliotic patients undergoing dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry.	To investigate whether a difference exists in the bone mineral density (BMD) between femurs in scoliotic patients undergoing dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and whether this difference is related to spine convexity.
Biomechanics of spinal hemiepiphysiodesis for fusionless scoliosis treatment using titanium implant.	In vitro study of the effect of hemiepiphyseal implant on biomechanical properties of porcine thoracic motion segments.
Impact of constrained dual-screw anchorage on holding strength and the resistance to cyclic loading in anterior spinal deformity surgery: a comparative biomechanical study.	Biomechanical in vitro laboratory study.
Scoliosis surgery in patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis does not alter lung volume: a 3-dimensional computed tomography-based study.	Retrospective study of surgically treated patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.
Effect of bracing on respiratory mechanics in mild idiopathic scoliosis.	The use of a corrective orthopaedic brace is an established form of management for patients with progressive idiopathic scoliosis. Thirteen patients with mild idiopathic scoliosis were studied with and without the corrective brace applied. Lung volumes and the pattern of chest wall and abdominal movement were measured during quiet breathing. Transdiaphragmatic pressures were measured in six of the patients and upper ribcage movement in seven patients. Application of the brace resulted in a significant reduction in vital capacity (14%), functional residual capacity (22%), and total lung capacity (12%). There was no effect on respiratory rate or minute volume. In the erect position the pattern of chest wall movement was altered with a reduction in lower ribcage movement of 46% and abdominal wall of 39% and an increase in upper ribcage movement of 43%. These changes were greater in the supine position. There was at least a twofold increase in end inspiratory and end expiratory gastric pressures during tidal breathing, but oesophageal pressures were not affected by the brace. Transdiaphragmatic pressures showed a similar twofold increase, which implies a substantial increase in the work of breathing. In view of the doubts concerning the influence of bracing on the natural history of idiopathic scoliosis and the substantial functional effect of bracing on the respiratory system, it is suggested that the current practice of bracing in this condition needs to be reviewed.
Biomechanical analyses of surgical correction techniques in idiopathic scoliosis: significance of bi-planar characteristics of scoliotic spines.	Biomechanical analyses of Harrington distraction, Harrington distraction-compression, Cotrel and Luque correction techniques simulated mechanically on a three-dimensional mathematical model of scoliotic spines are developed and relationships between mechanical forces and achievable corrections are derived in terms of Cobb angle, vertebral inclination from the frontal plane, and bi-plane bending stiffness of motion segments. For all four systems, nomograms between Cobb angles and corrective forces with correction factors as parameters are prepared in terms of given bi-plane characteristics of scoliotic spines. Parametric studies to show the influence of the torsion plane bending stiffness of motion segments and vertebral inclinations from the frontal plane on the mechanical effectiveness of the surgical correction techniques are presented. The mechanical effectiveness of each of the four surgical correction techniques determined with the use of this model compares reasonably well with the clinical findings.
A clinical study on lateral deviation of the line of gravity in idiopathic scoliosis]	The static deviation of the line of gravity in normal adolescent children and idiopathic scoliosis patients was analyzed. The following results were obtained: 1) The line of gravity deviated 1.3 cm to the left in the control. 2) The line of gravity in the right-convex single curve group was characterized as follows: It deviated to the right compared to the control, and it deviated further in severe cases. Brace treatment had no effect on the correction of the deviation. No difference was noted in the deviation between the thoracic and the lumbar curve group. 3) The line of gravity in the double curve group deviated slightly to the right, but that in the left convex single curve group was similar to the control. 4) The of gravity in the right-convex single curve group who underwent surgical treatment was corrected to the left.
Composite measurement of scoliosis: a new method of analysis of the deformity.	A method of calculation of biplanar spinal deformity in which the frontal Cobb angle is added to the deviation from normal sagittal alignment is presented. Three equivalent groups of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis treated by different surgical methods are presented. When only the frontal Cobb method of comparison was used, results were similar. When the composite measurement that takes into account sagittal changes was used, the Harrington instrumentation group showed significantly poorer results than the Luque rod and Cotrel-Dubousset rod groups. The composite measurement, considering sagittal alignment, is a significantly more valid method of description of the scoliotic deformity and of comparison of treatment methods.
Radiographic estimation of vertebral rotation]	Although there are various methods such as that of Nash and Moe, to measure the degree of vertebral rotation in patients with scoliosis, no decisive method has been established to date. In the present study, a formula for estimation of the pedicle rotation ratio (PRR) was obtained, based on the results of measurements of 5 dry cadaver vertebrae to establish a reasonably accurate quantitative determination of the degree of vertebral rotation on a routine antero-posterior roentgenogram of the spine. The formula could be written as: Y = AX - B(X: PRR, Y: a degree of vertebral rotation, A and B: variable according to the level of the vertebrae). The degree of vertebral rotation was obtained on antero-posterior roentgenograms of 150 vertebrae from 29 patients with idiopathic scoliosis, and was also measured on computerized tomograms of these patients for comparison. There was statistically significant relationship between the results of two methods. The present appears to be useful for clinical evaluation of scoliosis.
Pulmonary function testing in children with cardiac disease.	These cases illustrate the clinical importance of pulmonary function testing in children. The first case demonstrated a significant restrictive defect in a child with pulmonic stenosis and scoliosis. Although this child had no respiratory symptoms, it was important to document the degree of functional impairment to plan for her postoperative course. The second case demonstrated the way in which pulmonary function tests can lead to a specific diagnosis and provide important information about response to therapy. This patient had distressing symptoms which limited her ability to participate in sports. Her chest x-ray revealed no significant abnormality and she had no auscultatory finding. Pulmonary function tests defined both the nature and severity of her problems and provided objective information about her response to therapy. In the third case, one might have anticipated decreases in flow rates and lung volumes because of neuromuscular weakness. That was not evident on testing and the patient had an uneventful postoperative recovery. Pulmonary function testing provides invaluable information about the nature and severity of functional impairment in children with known or suspected pulmonary disease. New equipment and individuals specifically trained to work with children now permit the evaluation of even young children. Pulmonary function testing can expand our knowledge of disease processes and improve our therapeutic strategies.
Progression of unsupported curves in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.	Stability of three types of double scoliotic curves of 10-40 degrees was analyzed using a biomechanical model: double primary (Type I), primary thoracic with compensatory lumbar (Type II), and primary lumbar with compensatory thoracic (Type III). The load-carrying capacity of each curve was analyzed as a function of magnitude of the curve, its location and flexibility. Curve magnitude was found to be the most influential parameter governing the stability of a scoliotic curve up to 30 degrees. Results suggest that in evaluating curves of comparable magnitudes, Type I and II curves are more likely to progress and, therefore, should be braced at an earlier stage than Type III curves.
Hip dislocation and subluxation in cerebral palsy.	Four hundred sixty-four patients with cerebral palsy were reviewed. They were placed in four function groups: independent ambulators (n = 76), dependent ambulators (n = 43), independent sitters (n = 41), and dependent sitters (n = 304). The percentage of subluxated or dislocated hips increased from 7% for independent ambulators to 60% for dependent sitters. In the dependent sitters, a level pelvis or different degrees of pelvic obliquity did not correlate with whether the hip was located, subluxated, or dislocated. The subluxated or dislocated hip did not correlate with the high side or the amount of pelvic obliquity. Muscle imbalance around the hip and not the pelvic obliquity is the cause of the hip subluxation or dislocation.
Morphofunctional aspects of the pulmonary circulation in kyphoscoliosis; angiocardiopneumographic, scintigraphic and hemodynamic characteristics]	In a group of 30 patients suffering from kypphoscoliosis of different degrew was effected a series of researchs (investigations to value the morphological functional behaviour of the pulmonary circle. The used ways were: angiopneumography, pulmonary perfusional scintigraphy, cardiac catheterisation and radiocardiography. The achieved results allowed to single out interesting aspects both of pulmonary vascular bed compromission and of some haemodynamic parameters. These alterations show different degrees according to seriousness of the deformation and the presence or not of broncopneumonia complications in these patients.
Incidence and severity of back pain in adult idiopathic scoliosis.	Incidence of back pain in a referred and followed group of 197 adults with idiopathic scoliosis and in a comparable control group of 180 adults without known spinal deformity was the same. Severity of pain, however, was greater in scoliotic patients. The clinical course of back pain in adults without spinal deformity and in scoliotics was different: 64% improvement in adults without scoliosis versus 83% persistence and progression in adults with scoliosis. Fifty-one percent of adult scoliotics (101 patients) had significant pain. Pain increased with age and degree of scoliotic curvature (P less than 0.0005). Patients with major lumbar curves had more pain. Major complaint was frequently below major deformity. Compensatory lumbosacral fractional curves were most painful and disabling. Pain comes mainly from concavity of curves and includes discogenic, facet joint, and radicular origins. Surgery significantly reduced pain (P less than 0.0001); conservative therapy did not. Eighty-three percent of surgical patients had sufficient pain relief to make surgery worthwhile at five years average follow-up.
Sensory nerve conduction in the human spinal cord: epidural recordings made during scoliosis surgery.	This report describes the waveform and properties of somatosensory evoked potentials recorded from various levels of the human spinal cord, with electrodes inserted into the epidural space and the stimulus delivered to the posterior tibial nerve at the knee. The object was to provide a means of monitoring spinal cord function during surgery for the correction of spinal deformities. The responses could be resolved into at least three components with different activation thresholds and different conduction velocities within the spinal cord (45-80 m/s approximately). The findings are in accord with recent studies, suggesting that the fast activity may be conducted in the dorsal spinocerebellar tract and the slower waves in the posterior columns.
Improvement in pulmonary function in patients having combined anterior and posterior spine fusion for myelomeningocele scoliosis.	Thirteen patients with myelomeningocele scoliosis whose surgery necessitated anterior exposure of the thoracic spine were tested for changes in pulmonary function following spinal stabilization. The majority of patients exhibited a T12 level paralysis and a mean scoliosis of 72 degrees. Average correction of scoliosis for the series was 63%, and two cases with one level pseudarthrosis had no loss of correction. Ten of 13 patients were tested for pulmonary function one month prior to surgery and an average of ten months postoperatively. Eight of the ten patients demonstrated increase in peak flow postoperatively. Five demonstrated increase in maximum voluntary ventilation, and six cases showed increased functional residual capacity. Forced vital capacity increased in two, decreased in five, and showed no change in three patients. Improvement in peak flow, maximum voluntary ventilation, and functional residual capacity was noted in all five cases with scoliotic deformity in excess of 60 degrees (mean 93 degrees). It is postulated that, following spinal stabilization, these patients are able to improve their thoracic mechanics, enhancing greater expiratory flow with greater endurance.
The natural history of spine curvature progression in the nonambulatory Duchenne muscular dystrophy patient.	The natural progression of the spinal curve of eight nonambulatory Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) patients were followed from 38 to 91 months (average, five years and two months). Curve progression was seen in all patients. In patients whose curves exceeded 40 degrees, secondary complications, including loss of function diminished sitting tolerance, use of the arms and hands to prop the body up when seated, pain, and a diminished vital capacity (12-16%), were present.
Postural and time-dependent effects on body height and scoliosis angle in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.	Changes in body height and scoliosis angle under the influence of gravity were studied in 40 patients with adolescent scoliosis. The average decrease in body height was 1% during a day. There were no significant changes in the mean angles of the scoliosis curves during the day. The patients were grouped according to age, standing and sitting heights, weight and skeletal maturation. A decrease in the scoliosis angles occurred in younger, more skeletally immature and lighter individuals, while an increase occurred in older, more skeletally mature and heavier individuals. The difference between the scoliosis angles measured from standing and supine views was also analyzed. The correction of the scoliosis angle in the supine position was on average 19%. No correlation was found between the change in angle and any of the growth factors studied. There was also no correlation between the change in angle and the degree of curvature.
Regulation of the tidal volume and ventilatory responses to CO2 in normal man and in scoliosis.	The variation of the ventilatory response to CO2 and its pattern among normals and in the presence of pulmonary disease is wide. In normal subjects the relationship between the slopes of the ventilatory (delta V/delta PCO2), tidal volume (delta VT/delta PCO2) and the frequency (delta f/delta PCO2) responses and body size, metabolic rate, resting ventilation and pattern, lung volumes or mechanical properties of the respiratory system have only been demonstrated in a few studies. In idiopathic scoliosis there is a positive correlation between the delta V/delta PCO2 and delta VT/delta PCO2 and body size, resting ventilation and tidal volume, lung volumes and compliance of the respiratory system. Although there were significant correlations between the delta V/delta PCO2 and the delta VT/delta PCO2 and th delta f/delta PCO2 the correlation between the delta VT/delta PCO2 and delta f/delta PCO2 was not significant. Correlations between the delta f/delta PCO2 and lung volumes, compliance or body size were also not significant. Therefore variation in the frequency response to CO2 contribute to the variation between individuals of the delta V/delta PCO2 and this variation is unrelated to respiratory mechanics or body size. We conclude that in human studies any examination of possible relationships between ventilatory response to CO2 and body size, lung volumes and mechanics should examine separately the tidal volume and frequency response to CO2. We postulate that the tidal volume response is the most appropriate variable to normalize for lung volumes, e.g., vital capacity (delta VT/VC/delta/ PCO2).
Facilitation of motor evoked potentials: timing of Jendrassik maneuver effects.	Remote voluntary contraction, such as the classical Jendrassik maneuver (JM), is a procedure routinely used to increase the amplitude of tendon reflexes in the lower limb. In 8 healthy subjects we studied the effects of JM on the motor evoked potentials (MEP) recorded from tibialis anterior muscle, produced by transcranial magnetic stimulation (stimulus output of 5-10% over motor threshold). In this study, JM consisted here of a bilateral violent handgrip, preceding magnetic stimulation from 100 to 50 ms (steps of 100 ms). Compared to the control test, latencies remained unchanged. MEP amplitudes were greatly enhanced with a JM test interval from 200 to 400 ms (170% of control amplitude at 300 ms). We also studied 6 patients with severe alterations of MEPs from tibialis anterior muscle. In each case, JM preceding magnetic stimulation (stimulus output 100%) from 300 ms induced reappearance of response or marked enhancement of amplitude, allowing calculation of central conduction time. Such a technique, which is easy to perform, may be useful in clinical practice to calculate central motor conduction time, where it would otherwise be difficult or impossible.
Electrical muscle stimulation on the spine. Three-dimensional effects in rabbits.	We investigated the 3-dimensional effect of electrostimulation of the latissimus dorsi, the erector spinae and the intercostal muscles on spinal configuration in 16 New Zealand white rabbits. Electrostimulation on the right side of the spine resulted in a left convex, hypokyphotic curve and vertebral body rotation towards the convexity of the curve in all rabbits. The Cobb angle in the coronal plane increased with stimulation of each of the muscles examined. The kyphosis decreased with stimulation of the latissimus dorsi and the erector spinae. The vertebral rotation increased with stimulation of all muscles. Stimulation of the tested muscles resulted in the simultaneous occurrence of a 3-dimensional spinal deformity with the characteristics of idiopathic scoliosis.
Sagittal spinal flexibility in patients with idiopathic scoliosis.	To determine whether or not reduced sagittal spinal flexibility is associated with idiopathic scoliosis we measured the sagittal spinal flexibility in 40 normal children and in 93 children with idiopathic scoliosis. Sagittal spinal flexibility, or the range of spinal flexion (RSF), was calculated from lateral radiograms of each spine by measuring the difference in the segmental kyphotic angle between the neutral standing position and the maximally flexed position. The spines of all 40 normal children bent smoothly, but 87 of the 93 scoliosis patients had localized areas of severely decreased RSF. This striking difference in sagittal spinal flexibility between normal children and patients with idiopathic scoliosis suggested that a loss in spinal flexibility in the sagittal plane was associated with idiopathic scoliosis, and may contribute to the pathogenesis and progression of spinal curvature.
Three-dimensional simulation of Harrington distraction instrumentation for surgical correction of scoliosis.	Harrington distraction rod surgery on six female patients with idiopathic scoliosis was simulated in three-dimensional osseoligamentous finite element models with individual geometry taken from preoperative stereo roentgenographic reconstructions of the spine and ribcage and compared with the measured outcome. Boundary conditions at the ends of the spine were used to maintain pelvis and head alignment. Published material and flexibility properties were used. The amount of hook distraction was calculated from measured changes in the distance between the hook sites (range, 13-27 mm). Initial simulations underestimated the Cobb angle correction by an average 6%. They underestimated the spinal elongation by 36% and predicted an average 12 degrees increase in kyphosis angle compared with an actual 10 degrees average decrease. Agreement for sagittal plane changes improved in five cases when the beams representing the motion segments were displaced posteriorly. In the sixth case (with the rod applied over a lordotic spinal region), agreement was improved with the motion segment beams displaced anteriorly. The amount of the beam displacement that gave the best agreement was variable, and we were not able to predict it for each individual. Both measured and simulated changes in vertebral transverse plane rotations and in rib angulations were small. The greatest source of errors in these simulations appeared to be inadequate representation of in vivo motion segment behavior by in vitro measured stiffness properties.
Up and down the spinal cord: intraoperative monitoring of sensory and motor spinal cord pathways.	Monitoring of spinal cord function during certain orthopedic and neurosurgical procedures is done to reduce the likelihood of neurologic complications. This article is based on intraoperative experiences gained at Duke University Medical Center since 1978. Both ascending sensory (up) and descending motor (down) data can be evaluated to assist in improved patient outcomes. Refinements in technique and better understanding of the neural generators of evoked potentials obligate the components to have improved sensitivity and specificity of spinal intraoperative monitoring. An additional improvement has been the intraoperative use of motor evoked potentials. This discussion deals with a description of specific responses obtained following lower-limb mixed nerve stimulation in terms of neural generation, influences of rate and intensity, and anesthetic effects. The techniques and advantages of bipolar epidural recording and stimulation are discussed. Motor tract stimulation via the same epidural electrodes used for recording of sensory components is described. Case reports are presented to emphasize major points.
Intraoperative lower extremity reflex muscle activity as an adjunct to conventional somatosensory-evoked potentials and descending neurogenic monitoring in idiopathic scoliosis.	Lower extremity polysynaptic reflexes and descending neurogenic motor and ascending somatosensory activity were recorded.
Reproducibility of data on steady-state gas exchange and indices of maldistribution of ventilation and blood flow.	The reproducibility of data on steady-state gas exchange and arterial blood gas levels was examined in 45 patients with similar pathophysiologic abnormalities (idiopathic scoliosis) by comparing the data obtained during two sequential periods breathing air. Comparison in all patients of 12 variables by paired t-test demonstrated statistically significant differences in the following three variables: the ratio of physiologic dead space to tidal volume (Vd/TV), the alveolar-arterial oxygen pressure difference (P[A-a]O2), and the arterial oxygen tension. By excluding four patients whose respiratory quotient was greater than two standard deviations from the mean value and one patient with a marked change in the pattern of ventilation, only the Vd/TV was significantly different (P less than 0.05). The range of the coefficients of variation was wide. The highest, which was for P(A-a)O2, was 18.8 percent; the majority were in range of 6 to 13 percent (minute ventilation, TV, frequency, oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production, respiratory quotient, Vd/TV, dead space, and alveolar ventilation), and the coefficients of variation of partial pressure of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the arterial blood were, respectively, 3.6 and 3.4 percent.
The position of the aorta in relation to the vertebra in patients with idiopathic thoracic scoliosis.	One CT-scan at the central part of the vertebral body of the apical vertebra of 32 patients with right convex thoracic idiopathic scoliosis and one CT-scan of either T8 or T9 of 22 normal subjects are included in this study. The position of the aorta in relation to the apical vertebra of the scoliotic patients and the corresponding vertebra of the normal subjects was determined at the horizontal plane. The mean lateral translation of the aorta in relation to the mid axis of the vertebral body increased from 19.7 +/- 4.3 mm in the normal group to 26.4 +/- 4.1 mm in the scoliotic group (p = 0.0001). In the normal group the aorta was located 41.7 +/- 8.6 mm in front of a perpendicular line to the mid axis of the vertebral body and in the scoliotic group this distance was reduced to 30.0 +/- 9.0 mm making the position of the aorta more posterior in the scoliotic group (p = 0.0001). This was in accordance with a decreased mean kyphosis-lordosis index from 0.53 +/- 0.06 in the normal group to 0.46 +/- 0.07 in the scoliotic group (p = 0.01). The position of the aorta, also expressed as the angle formed between the aorta and the vertebral body, the "aorto-vertebral angle", was increased from 24.4 degrees +/- 6.9 degrees in the normal group to 41.4 degrees +/- 8.4 degrees the scoliotic patients, (p = 0.0001). The aorto-vertebral angle did not change significantly with increasing Cobb angle (p = 0.26) but was positively correlated to the vertebral rotation (p = 0.0001). An estimation of the length of the intercostal arteries revealed a significantly greater R (right)/L (left) index in the scoliotic patients 1.18 +/- 0.11 than in the normal subjects 1.08 +/- 0.06 (p = 0.0003). It is concluded that the rotation and the anterior displacement of the vertebral body in scoliosis result in a deviation of the aorta along the left (concave) side of the vertebral body to a more posterior position relative to the vertebral body with a possible increased length of the intercostal artery on the right (convex) side.
Normalization of the coronal and sagittal profile in idiopathic scoliosis: options of treatment.	There are many current strategies for normalizing coronal and sagittal profile in the idiopathic adolescent and adult scoliosis patient. Anterior and posterior approaches have their advantages and limitations. Many factors have to be considered in determining the "best" approach, as idiopathic scoliosis presents with a wide diversity of deformity and curve pattern. Those points are reviewed in this manuscript.
Assessment of curve progression in idiopathic scoliosis.	In a 5-year prospective study on idiopathic scoliosis, an attempt was made to elucidate the natural history of the disease and to determine which factors contribute to curve progression. A total of 85,622 children were examined for scoliosis in a prospective school screening study carried out in northwestern and central Greece. Curve progression was studied in 839 of the 1,436 children with idiopathic scoliosis of at least 10 degrees detected from the school screening program. Each child was followed clinically and roentgenographically for one to four follow-up visits for a mean of 3.2 years. Progression of the scoliotic curve was recorded in 14.7% of the children. Spontaneous improvement of at least 5 degrees was observed in 27.4% of them, with 80 children (9.5%) demonstrating complete spontaneous resolution. Eighteen percent of the patients remained stable, while the remaining patients demonstrated nonsignificant changes of less than 5 degrees in curve magnitude. A strong association was observed between the incidence of progression and the sex of the child, curve pattern, maturity, and to a lesser extent age and curve magnitude. More specifically, the following were associated with a high risk of curve progression: sex (girls); curve pattern (right thoracic and double curves in girls, and right lumbar curves in boys); maturity (girls before the onset of menses); age (time of pubertal growth spurt); and curve magnitude (> or = 30 degrees). On the other hand, left thoracic curves showed a weak tendency for progression. In conclusion, the findings of the present study strongly suggest that only a small percentage of scoliotic curves will undergo progression. The pattern of the curve according to curve direction and sex of the child was found to be a key indicator of which curves will progress.
Surgery of the spine in Duchenne's muscular dystrophy]	The authors present a retrospective review of 27 patients presenting a Duchenne muscular dystrophy and who were operated for spinal deformity, with special reference to functional result and postoperative evolution of vital capacity.
Biomechanical modeling of instrumentation for the scoliotic spine using flexible elements: a feasibility study]	Surgical instrumentation of the scoliotic spine is a complex procedure with many parameters, such as the spinal segment to operate on, the number and position of the hooks and screws, etc. Biomechanical modeling is a tool which can be used to determine the influence of these parameters. However, technical difficulties due to the large stiffness range of involved components and the large deformations associated with surgical maneuvers are encountered when using the finite elements method. Thus, the objective of this study is to adapt a modeling approach using analysis of flexible mechanisms and evaluate its feasibility. The model combines rigid bodies for the vertebrae and flexible elements representing intervertebral structures. The mechanical properties were calculated from published data and the geometry was personalized with intraoperative measurements. Following the installation of the hooks and screws on the modeled spine, two steps were used to simulate the surgical maneuvers: 1) translation and attachment of the hooks/screws on the first rod; 2) rod rotation. The feasibility of this modeling approach was evaluated by simulating the surgical maneuvers on 2 cases: 1) a physical model; 2) a clinical case. The agreement between intraoperative measurements and simulation results (frontal curvatures are reproduced with over 80% accuracy) shows the feasibility of the modeling approach. This approach also reduces computational convergence problems because of its limited sensitivity to stiffness differences between elements, which demonstrates the advantage of flexible mechanism modeling relative to finite element modeling. Long term goals of subsequent refinements are the development of a tool for surgical correction predictions and for the design of more efficient instrumentation.
