Interactions of cocaine with primary and secondary recognition sites on muscarinic receptors.	Several lines of evidence have suggested that muscarinic receptors may possess more than one ligand binding site. In this study, the interactions of cocaine with primary and secondary (allosteric) sites on muscarinic receptors in membrane homogenates from post-mortem human brainstem were examined. (-)-Cocaine inhibited the binding of the tritiated muscarinic antagonists N-methylscopolamine (NMS) and pirenzepine to an apparent single class of sites, with Ki values of 200-300 microM. The binding of the muscarinic agonist [3H]oxotremorine-M was inhibited with a similar Ki value (200 microM). (+)-Cocaine, although not the naturally occurring stereoisomer, was 10-20-fold more potent than (-)-cocaine in competing for binding to the primary muscarinic recognition site. The binding of cocaine was unaffected by guanine nucleotides or N-ethylmaleimide, consistent with its purported action as a competitive antagonist. Cocaine was not selective for muscarinic receptor subtypes. Rosenthal analysis of the [3H]NMS saturation binding data in the presence of increasing concentrations of either (-)-cocaine or (+)-cocaine indicated that both isomers produced an apparent competitive-like reduction in the [3H]NMS affinity. Schild regression analysis of the saturation binding data resulted in curvilinear plots suggestive of cooperative or allosteric interactions of (-)-cocaine with the [3H]NMS-labeled receptors. The effects of (-)-cocaine on the kinetics of [3H]NMS binding were consistent with an allosteric interaction with the receptor. Increasing concentrations of cocaine markedly slowed the rate of [3H]NMS dissociation from the primary recognition site. The allosteric modulation of [3H] NMS binding by (-)-cocaine was abolished with increasing ionic strength. Taken together, these data demonstrate that (-)-cocaine interacts with primary and allosteric recognition sites on muscarinic receptors.
Equipotent allosteric effect of W84 on [3H]NMS-binding to cardiac muscarinic receptors from guinea-pig, rat, and pig.	W84 (hexamethylene-bis-[dimethyl-(phthalimidopropyl)-ammonium bromide]) is an experimental antidote against organophosphorus poisoning and has been found to affect muscarinic cholinoceptors allosterically. The attempt was made to test whether the W84-action on muscarinic cholinoceptors depends on the species. For this purpose, the effect of W84 on the binding of [3H]N-methylscopolamine ([3H]NMS) was investigated in membrane-suspensions from the hearts of guinea pigs, rats, and pigs in 3 mM MgHPO4, 50 mM Tris, pH 7.3, at 23 degrees. W84 inhibited [3H]NMS-binding in the three membrane suspensions with similar potency (half-inhibitory concentration IC50: 2-5 microM). To evaluate the allosteric activity of W84, its effect on the dissociation of [3H]NMS was determined. At 3 microM, W84 diminished the rate of [3H]NMS-dissociation to about 20% of the control in three suspensions. At 100 microM of W84, [3H]NMS-dissociation was almost prevented. In conclusion, W84 acted equally on the cardiac cholinoceptors of guinea pigs, rats, and pigs, respectively. It can be anticipated that M2-cholinoceptors of other species would likewise be affected by W84.
Binding properties of nine 4-diphenyl-acetoxy-N-methyl-piperidine (4-DAMP) analogues to M1, M2, M3 and putative M4 muscarinic receptor subtypes.	1. We compared the binding properties of 4-diphenyl-acetoxy-N-methyl-piperidine methiodide (4-DAMP) and nine analogues of this compound on muscarinic receptors of human neuroblastoma NB-OK1 cells (M1 subtype), rat heart (M2 subtype), rat pancreas (M3 subtype) and to the putative M4 subtype in striatum. 2. The requirements for high affinity binding were somewhat different for the four receptor subtypes. In general, the requirements of M3 receptors were more stringent than for M1, M2 or putative M4 receptors. 3. The abilities of the compounds to discriminate muscarinic receptor subtypes were not correlated with their affinities at any subtype. 4. The temperature-dependence of binding of 4-DAMP analogues to M2 receptors varied with the drug structure. In particular, the increased affinity of the alpha-methyl derivative of 4-DAMP could be ascribed to van der Waals interactions. 5. The affinities of most 4-DAMP analogues for M2 and M3 receptors were similar to their pharmacological potencies on atrial and ileum preparations, respectively. 6. At concentrations above 1 microM, all 4-DAMP analogues as well as atropine, reduced the [3H]-N-methyl scopolamine ([3H]-NMS) dissociation rate from cardiac muscarinic receptors, with no obvious structure-activity relationship.
Effects of agonist efficacy on desensitization of phosphoinositide hydrolysis mediated by m1 and m3 muscarinic receptors expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells.	Muscarinic receptor agonist-induced desensitization of phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis and loss of receptors were studied in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells transfected with the m1 and m3 muscarinic receptor genes. Long-term exposure to the full agonist carbamylcholine (CBC) resulted in a time-dependent attenuation of the maximal PI response and a decrease in agonist potency. This desensitization was accompanied by a parallel loss of maximal ligand binding without an alteration of the binding affinity. The time course of both receptor desensitization and down-regulation was similar in m1 and m3 CHO cells. The PI response to the partial agonist McN-A-343 (McN) in m1 cells was more sensitive to desensitization by CBC than the response to the latter agonist, and this desensitization was faster than receptor down-regulation. Desensitization of the PI response to McN was reflected as a decrease in the maximal response without a marked change in potency. McN induced slow desensitization of the PI response to CBC but a much faster desensitization of its own response. Our data provide evidence that although muscarinic agonist-induced desensitization of PI hydrolysis in CHO cells is due mainly to loss of receptors, there are other important factors which play a role in this process, e.g., receptor-effector uncoupling. The relative contribution of these different mechanisms depends on the efficacy of the agonists used for the receptor desensitization and activation steps.
Evidence of paired M2 muscarinic receptors.	Binding assays involving various antagonists, including N-[3H] methylscopolamine, [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate, AFDX-116, pirenzepine, and propylbenzilylcholine mustard, disclosed only a single population of M2 muscarinic receptors in membranes from the rat "brainstem" (medulla, pons, and colliculi). However, competition curves between N-[3H]methylscopolamine and various agonists, including oxotremorine, cis-dioxolane, and acetylethylcholine mustard, showed approximately equal numbers of guanine nucleotide-sensitive high affinity (H) sites and guanine nucleotide-insensitive low affinity (L) sites. This 50% H phenomenon persisted in different buffers, at different temperatures, after the number of receptors was halved (and, thus, the remaining receptor to guanine nucleotide-binding protein ratio was doubled), after membrane solubilization with digitonin, and when rabbit cardiac membranes were used instead of rat brainstem membranes. Preferential occupation of H sites with acetylethylcholine mustard, and of L sites with quinuclidinyl benzilate or either mustard, yielded residual free receptor populations showing predominantly L and H sites, respectively. Low concentrations of [3H]-oxotremorine-M labeled only H sites, and the Bmax for these sites was 49% of the Bmax found with [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate plus guanine nucleotide. These and other results are most consistent with the idea that H and L receptor sites exist on separate but dimeric receptor molecules and with the hypothesis that only the H receptors cycle between high and low affinity, depending upon interactions between this receptor molecule and a guanine nucleotide-binding protein.
Pharmacological analysis of drug interactions of disopyramide and its congeners with peripheral muscarinic acetylcholine receptors]	The interactions of the antiarrhythmic agents, disopyramide (D) and its congeners, pirmenol (Pr) and pentisomide (Pt), with peripheral muscarinic receptors (m-AchR) were investigated using binding and functional assays. D, Pr and Pt inhibited the specific binding of [3H]-N-methyl scopolamine ([3H]-NMS) to membrane fractions prepared from guinea pig left atria (LA), submandibular glands (SG) and urinary bladders (UB) in a concentration-dependent manner. Computer-assisted analysis showed that the displacement curves with D obtained from LA and UB were shallow and best fitted by a two-site model, whereas D interacted with a single class of binding sites in SG. Kinetic experiments measuring [3H]-NMS dissociation revealed the existence of allosteric interaction of D with m-AChR, and it might be responsible for the low affinity components of the displacement curves in LA and UB. The pKi values for D in high-affinity receptor sites in LA and UB (pKH) were very close to the pKi for D obtained in SG, and corresponded well to the pA2 values of around 6.0 for antagonism against the carbachol-induced mechanical responses of LA and UB. Pt interacted with m-AChR with qualitatively very similar fashion to that of D, but its potency was very weak (1/10 of D). Pr interacted with a single class of binding sites in LA and SG with pKi of 6.02 and 5.18, respectively, indicating that the affinity of Pr to glandular m-AChR (M3) was 7 fold lower than that to cardiac one (M2). The displacement curve with Pr in UB was best fitted by a two-site model with pKH of 5.93 and pKL of 5.20. The pA2 for Pr in LA and UB were 6.47 and 5.55, respectively, suggesting the existence of a mixed population of M2 and M3 in UB and the contribution of M3 to its contractile response. It is concluded that Pr is able to distinguish M2 from M3, and that D and Pt have almost similar affinity to both subtypes of m-AChR. Pr was less potent than D in interaction with M3.
Allosteric interactions at the m1, m2 and m3 muscarinic receptor subtypes.	The purpose of our study was to investigate the interactions of allosteric antagonists at the individual m1, m2 and m3 muscarinic receptor subtypes. This was achieved through the use of transformed Chinese hamster ovary cells stably expressing the rat m1 or m3 receptor genes. A homogeneous population of the m2 subtype was obtained from rat heart tissue. Our data indicate that the cardioselective antagonists (gallamine, methoctramine, AF-DX 116 and himbacine) display the following rank order of potency for both displacing ligand binding to the primary site on the receptor and allosterically decelerating ligand dissociation: m2 greater than m1 greater than m3. Schild analysis showed the following rank order of the magnitude of gallamine's cooperative interactions with the three receptor subtypes: m3 greater than m1 greater than m2. By comparison, the ion-channel blockers (verapamil, phencyclidine and quinidine) exhibited a rank order of potency for cooperative effects similar to that of cardioselective antagonists; however, these blockers did not show appreciable specificity in their interaction with the receptor primary binding site. There was a lack of correlation between the displacement of ligand binding and the allosteric potencies of the allosteric antagonists at each of the three muscarinic receptor subtypes, thus revealing the complex nature of interaction (both competitive and allosteric) between many of these compounds with the muscarinic receptor. Despite the fact that the majority of allosteric muscarinic antagonists are also K+ channel blockers, the use of pertussis toxin did not support the notion that this channel represents the allosteric site coupled to the receptor.
Antagonist binding profiles of five cloned human muscarinic receptor subtypes.	A variety of muscarinic antagonists are currently used as tools to pharmacologically subclassify muscarinic receptors into M1, M2 and M3 subtypes. In the present study, we have determined the affinity profiles of several of these antagonists at five cloned human muscarinic receptors (m1-m5) stably expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO-K1). At all five receptors, the (R)-enantiomers of trihexyphenidyl and hexbutinol displayed considerably higher affinities (up to 525-fold) than their corresponding (S)-isomers. The stereoselectivity ratios [inhibition constant(S)/inhibition constant(R)] for both pairs of enantiomers were lowest at m2 receptors, suggesting that less stringent configurational demands are made by this receptor subtype. The "M1-selective" antagonist (R)-trihexyphenidyl displayed high affinities for m1 and m4 receptors. The "M2-selective" antagonists himbacine, (+-)-5,11-dihydro-11- ([(2-[(dipropylamino)methyl]-1- piperidinyl)ethyl)amino]carbonyl)-6H-pyrido(2,3-b)(1,4)benzodiazepine-6- one (AF-DX 384), 11-[4-[4-(diethylamino)butyl]-1-piperidinyl)acetyl)-5,11- dihydro-6H-pyrido(2,3-b) (1,4)benzodiazepine-6-one (AQ-RA 741) and (+)-(11-[2-[(diethylamino) methyl]-1-piperidinyl)acetyl)-5,11-di-hydro-6H-pyrido(2,3-b)(1,4) benzodiazepine-6-one [AF-DX 250; the (+)-enantiomer of AF-DX 116] exhibited high affinities for m2 and m4, intermediate affinities for m1 and m3 and low affinities for m5 receptors. This selectivity profile was most prominent for AQ-RA 741, which displayed 195- and 129-fold higher affinities for m2 and m4 receptors than for m5 receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
N-[3H]methylscopolamine labeling of non-M1, non-M2 muscarinic receptor binding sites in rat brain.	Radioligand binding and quantitative autoradiographic techniques were used to characterize the pharmacological profile and anatomical distribution of N-[3H]methylscopolamine [( 3H] NMS)-labeled sites under assay conditions in which radioligand binding to M1 and M2 muscarinic receptors was blocked by addition of pirenzepine and AF-DX 116 (11[[2-[(diethylamino)methyl]-1-piperidinyl] acetyl]-5,11-dihydro-6H-pyrido[2,3-b] [1,4]benzodiazepine-6-one) to the incubation buffer. Nonlinear regression analysis of saturation data demonstrated that a large proportion of atropine-displaceable [3H]NMS binding persisted in the presence of saturating concentrations of M1 and M2 blockers. The residual [3H]NMS [( 3H]NMSb) sites were widely distributed throughout rat brain and represented the predominant muscarinic receptor population. The autoradiographic distribution of [3H]NMSb sites did not correspond to that of [3H]pirenzepine or [3H]AF-DX 116, indicating that [3H]NMSb labeled non-M1, non-M2 muscarinic sites. Moreover, the pharmacological profile of [3H]NMSb differed from that of [3H]pirenzepine at M1 sites, and was inconsistent with that of M2 receptor binding sites. Although we were unable to pharmacologically distinguish subpopulations of non-M1, non-M2 binding sites, the anatomical distribution of [3H]NMSb sites corresponded to that of the combined mRNA distributions for m3 and m4.
In vitro down-regulation predicts agonist efficacy at central muscarinic cholinergic receptors.	Agonist induced short-term down-regulation of central muscarinic cholinergic receptors in mechanically dissociated cells of the mouse brain has been shown to predict the efficacy of agonists at muscarinic receptors. Pretreatment of cells with full agonists such as carbachol or oxotremorine M resulted in a loss of available muscarinic cholinergic receptors of about 30% using [3H]N-methylscopolamine [( 3H]NMS) as radioligand, whereas a second group of agonists e.g. RS 86 were only weakly active in this regard producing a significantly smaller loss of cell surface muscarinic cholinergic receptors. The magnitude of down-regulation of muscarinic receptors induced by pretreatment with several cholinergic drugs correlates fairly well with their ability to stimulate the phosphatidylinositol turnover. It seems that the agonist induced down-regulation of muscarinic cholinergic receptors on mechanically dissociated neurons of the mouse brain is a simple screening method to test for centrally acting cholinergic agonists.
Muscarinic receptor subtype selectivity of novel heterocyclic QNB analogues.	In an effort at synthesizing centrally-active subtype-selective antimuscarinic agents, we derivatized QNB (quinuclidinyl benzilate), a potent muscarinic antagonist, by replacing one of the phenyl groups with less lipophilic heterocyclic moieties. The displacement of [3H]-N-methyl scopolamine binding by these novel compounds to membranes from cells expressing m1-m4 receptor subtypes was determined. Most of the novel 4-bromo-QNB analogues were potent and slightly selective for m1 receptors. The 2-thienyl derivative was the most potent, exhibiting a 2-fold greater potency than BrQNB at m1 receptors, and a 4-fold greater potency at m2 receptors. This compound was also considerably less lipophilic than BrQNB as determined from its retention time on C18 reverse phase HPLC. This compound may therefore be useful both for pharmacological studies and as a candidate for a radioiodinated SPECT imaging agent for ml muscarinic receptors in human brain.
Structure-linked latency of muscarinic receptors in axonal transport.	Muscarinic receptors that accumulated above a ligature in rat sciatic nerves were labelled in vitro under isotonic conditions with N-[3H]methylscopolamine. The addition of 0.005% of digitonin doubled the binding in proximal segments above and close to the ligature but not in the intermediary segments between two ligatures. Osmotic shock and freeze-thawing treatments also enhanced the binding. Digitonin did not affect the affinity of muscarinic receptors but revealed a greater number of sites by increasing the membrane permeability to the hydrophilic ligand. We conclude that presynaptic muscarinic receptors that undergo fast axonal transport in rat sciatic nerves exist under a latent form because they are associated with vesicles. This is the first demonstration of a structure-linked latency for receptors.
CR-1409: a potent inhibitor of cholecystokinin-stimulated amylase release and cholecystokinin binding in rat pancreatic acini.	The effects of a new glutaramic acid derivative, 3,4-dichloro-benzamido-N, N-dipentyl-glutaramic acid (CR-1409), on cholecystokinin-stimulated amylase release and 125I-cholecystokinin octapeptide binding were studied in isolated rat pancreatic acini. CR-1409 at concentrations between 0.3 and 30 microM inhibited cholecystokinin-stimulated amylase release in a dose-dependent manner without appreciable effect on the basal amylase secretion. Biphasic dose-response curves to cholecystokinin for amylase release shifted to the right with an increase in the concentration of the drug. IC50 (half-maximal inhibitory concentration) of CR-1409 for cholecystokinin-stimulated amylase release was 0.64 microM, and the potency of this drug on the inhibition of amylase release was 3400 times greater than that of proglumide. The effect of CR-1409 was rapid, reversible, and selective for cholecystokinin. In addition, CR-1409 at concentrations between 0.1 and 30 microM inhibited 125I-cholecystokinin octapeptide binding to rat pancreatic acini. IC50 of CR-1409 for 125I-cholecystokinin octapeptide binding was 0.22 microM, and the potency of this drug on the effect was 5900 times greater than that of proglumide.
Muscarinic activity of McN-A-343 and its value in muscarinic receptor classification.	The affinity and potency of McN-A-343 (4-(m-chlorophenyl-carbamoyloxy) -2-butynyltrimethylammonium chloride) has been assessed at a range of M1 and M2 muscarinic receptors. McN-A-343 was shown to act as a full agonist at M2 receptors present in the guinea-pig isolated taenia caeci (-log EC50 = 5.14). McN-A-343 exhibited no agonist action in the guinea-pig ileum, atria, bladder or trachea. McN-A-343 was not selective in terms of affinity since its dissociation constants at M1 and M2 binding sites in the rat cerebral cortex and myocardium respectively, were very similar (cortical pPKi = 5.05; myocardial pKi = 5.22). The selectivity previously reported for the compound may be due to differences in intrinsic efficacy and/or tissue receptor reserve. Based on differential antagonist affinities, the muscarinic receptor profile of the taenia caeci, trachea and bladder was similar to that observed in the ileum, but dissimiliar to that observed in the atria.
The muscarinic receptor of rat pituitary GH3 cells is coupled with adenylate cyclase inhibition, but not with phosphoinositide turnover.	The effects of muscarinic stimulation on cyclic AMP accumulation and on basal and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH)-induced phosphoinositide turnover have been studied in rat pituitary GH3 tumour cells. Carbachol produced a dose-dependent atropine-sensitive inhibition of basal cyclic AMP accumulation. It had no effect on basal or TRH-stimulated production of inositol phosphates. The majority of the muscarinic receptors had a low affinity (Ki 0.22 microM) for pirenzepine and can be classified as M2 type, inhibiting adenylate cyclase but having no links with phosphoinositide metabolism.
Binding and hydrodynamic properties of muscarinic receptor subtypes solubilized in 3-(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio-2-hydroxy-1-propanesulfonate.	The muscarinic receptor from the cerebral cortex, heart, and lacrimal gland can be solubilized in the zwitterionic detergent 3-(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio-2-hydroxy-1-propane sulfonate (CHAPSO) with retention of high affinity [3H]N-methyls-copolamine binding. However, in this detergent there are significant differences in the binding properties of the receptors, compared with those observed in membranes and digitonin solution. Some agents retain a degree of selectivity. In the heart and cortex, agonists can bind with high affinity to a receptor-GTP-binding protein complex. A second, lower affinity, agonist binding state is also present, which resembles a class of sites seen in membranes but not in digitonin solution. The high affinity agonist binding state has been resolved from the lower affinity state on sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Hydrodynamic analysis suggests that the high affinity state is approximately 110,000 Da larger than the lower affinity state. The binding properties of the receptor in CHAPSO can be altered to those seen in digitonin by exchanging detergents after CHAPSO solubilization.
Inhibition of cyclic AMP formation in N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells is mediated by a non-cardiac M2 muscarinic receptor subtype.	The cardioselective muscarinic antagonist, AF-DX 116 [11[2-[(diethyl-amino)-methyl]-O-1-piperidinyl]-5,11-dihydro-6H-pyrido- [2,3-b][1,4]-benzodiazepine-6-one), was weak at blocking the M2 muscarinic receptor-mediated inhibition of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) formation in mouse neuroblastoma cells (clone N1E-115). In contrast, the glandular-selective antagonists, hexahydro-sila-difenidol (HHSiD) and 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methyl-piperidine methiodide (4-DAMP), were quite potent at inhibiting this response, being 14- and 318-fold more potent than AF-DX 116 in this regard, respectively. According to the rank order of potency of these two classes of antagonists, these data provide the first pharmacological evidence that inhibition of cAMP formation in a neuronal tissue is mediated by a non-cardiac M2 muscarinic receptor subtype.
Characterization of muscarinic receptors: type M2 (subtype B) on neuro-2A neuroblastoma cells.	The binding of the nonselective muscarinic antagonist, [3H]N-methylscopolamine (NMS) to a mouse neuroblastoma cell line (Neuro-2A) and its coupling to the inhibition of adenylate cyclase were characterized. Specific [3H]NMS binding to membrane preparations was rapid, saturable, and of high affinity. Saturation experiments revealed a single class of binding sites for the radioligand. Competition experiments with the muscarinic drugs pirenzepine, AF DX 116, dicyclomine and atropine revealed that the muscarinic receptors present on these cells are predominantly of a single class, subtype B (M2). In addition, agonist binding demonstrated existence of a GTP-sensitive high affinity binding state of the receptors. Coupling of these muscarinic receptors to the adenylate cyclase system was investigated using the muscarinic agonist carbachol which was able to inhibit the prostaglandin (PGE1)-stimulated activation of adenylate cyclase. The agonist carbachol did not stimulate the formation of IP3 above basal levels, which indicated that the receptors are not coupled to phosphatidylinositol metabolism. In conclusion, we show that possessing predominantly one subtype of muscarinic receptor, the Neuro-2A cells provide a useful model for the investigation of the heterogeneity of muscarinic receptors and the relationship of subtype to the coupling of different effectors.
Muscarinic cholinergic receptors in the normal and neurogenic human bladder.	Bladder dysfunction secondary to neurologic conditions occurs in all age groups and is associated with significant morbidity. The role of neuroreceptors in the development of detrusor dysfunction has not been studied previously. Control bladder tissue specimens were obtained from eight children with ureterovesical reflux undergoing ureteral reimplantation and 14 adults with bladder carcinoma undergoing cystectomy. Neurogenic bladder specimens were obtained from 10 children with myelomeningocele and five adults with neurogenic bladder dysfunction undergoing augmentation cystoplasty. Saturation experiments using 3H-N-methylscopolamine (3H-NMS) were performed in these control and neurogenic bladder homogenates. The mean equilibrium dissociation constants in the neurogenic and control bladders were 0.41 nM and 0.55 nM, respectively. The mean density of muscarinic cholinergic (MCh) receptor binding sites in the neurogenic and control bladders was 0.34 fmol/mg wet wt. and 0.65 fmol/mg. wet wt., respectively. Competitive binding experiments with 3H-NMS and various unlabelled MCh antagonists indicated that the pharmacology of MCh binding sites was similar in neurogenic and control bladders. Age was not significantly correlated with MCh receptor density in the control and neurogenic bladders. Muscarinic cholinergic binding sites are homogeneous in neurogenic and control bladders. The lower density of MCh receptors in the neurogenic bladders may represent down regulation of MCh receptors or a replacement of smooth muscle by fibrosis.
AF-DX 116 discriminates heart from gland M2-cholinoceptors in man.	The M2-cholinoceptor subtype selective antagonist AF-DX 116 was compared with atropine with respect to effects on heart rate and salivary flow in healthy volunteers. These effects were related with in vitro occupancy of M-cholinoceptor subtypes in radioreceptor assays of plasma samples. Radioreceptor assays comprised M1-cholinoceptors in bovine cerebral cortex and M2-cholinoceptors in pig heart and rat salivary gland membranes. 3H-pirenzepine served as a label in the cerebral cortex 3H-N-methyl-scopolamine in the heart and gland preparations. Oral administration of 240 mg AF-DX 116 led to a time dependent increase in heart rate with a maximum effect comparable to atropine 40 micrograms/kg i.v. The effects of both drugs on heart rate were matched by a greater than 80% occupancy of heart M2-cholinoceptors in the radioreceptor assay of plasma samples. In contrast to the complete inhibition of salivary flow after atropine, AF-DX 116 induced an increase of salivation. The effects on salivary flow coincided with a greater than 80% occupancy of glandular M2-cholinoceptors after atropine but no detectable occupancy after AF-DX 116. Occupancy of the M1-subtype amounted to 61.7% after AF-DX 116 and a blockade of inhibitory, presynaptic M1-autoreceptors at missing postsynaptic blockade of glandular M2-cholinoceptors might explain the hypersalivation induced by AF-DX 116.
Determination of the association and dissociation rate constants of muscarinic antagonists on rat pancreas: rank order of potency varies with time.	Antagonist binding to rat pancreatic muscarinic receptors was relatively slow at 25 degrees (tracer dissociation half-life, 50 to 60 min). We, therefore, chose this system to investigate the errors induced by nonequilibrium incubations on the estimates of receptor capacity and selectivity, in binding studies. We took advantage of the fact that muscarinic antagonists recognize only one receptor subtype in rat pancreatic homogenates and that association and dissociation kinetics conform to the law of mass action to analyze quantitatively the binding kinetics of [3H]N-methylscopolamine and of several unlabeled progressive to these receptors. We observed no correlation between the affinities of drugs for muscarinic receptors and their dissociation rate constants. As a result, the apparent receptor specificity (based on relative affinities for different antagonists) varied markedly with the incubation period. We, therefore, strongly recommend that in general competition curves established for receptor classification should be compared at different incubation periods to ensure that equilibrium is attained. The association rate constants of muscarinic antagonists for rat pancreas receptors were remarkably low, when compared with other ligand-receptor systems. This suggests that the antagonist-pancreatic muscarinic receptor association reaction included a rate-limiting conformational change of the drug-receptor complex. This isomerization step was not directly detectable in our kinetic studies, due to the very low affinity and rapid dissociation rate of the initial nonisomerized complex.
Postnatal ontogeny of agonist and depolarization-induced phosphoinositide hydrolysis in rat cerebral cortex.	The ability of muscarinic and alpha-1 adrenoceptor agonists and elevated extracellular K+ to initiate cerebral cortical phosphoinositide hydrolysis at different stages in development was examined by prelabeling slices with [3H]inositol and assaying [3H] inositol phosphates ([3H]IPs) in the presence of lithium. Both carbachol and noradrenaline evoked an increase in [3H]IP accumulation at every age tested, although there were marked developmental differences in maximal responsiveness. Very large responses to carbachol were observed (greater than 20-fold) in the 1st week of development and these responses declined with time reaching adult levels at 21 days. During this time there was negligible change in the apparent affinity of carbachol and no effect on the relative intrinsic activity of a partial agonist arecoline. Maximal responses to noradrenaline at early ages (2, 7 and 14 days) were comparable with those observed in adult cortex but a significantly higher apparent affinity for noradrenaline and a higher relative intrinsic activity for phenylephrine were observed at these ages. Muscarinic and alpha-1 adrenoceptor binding sites increased progressively with age and reached adult levels by 21 to 40 days. Elevation of extracellular K+ to 18 mM resulted in an increased production of [3H]IPs at every age. The cholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine (50 microM) enhanced the response produced by elevated K+ at 14, 21 and 40 days but had no effect at 2 or 7 days. The Ca++ channel activator BAY-K-8644 (1 microM) enhanced the responses produced by elevated K+ at 7 and 40 days.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Muscarinic responses and binding in a murine neuroblastoma clone (N1E-115): cyclic GMP formation is mediated by a low affinity agonist-receptor conformation and cyclic AMP reduction is mediated by a high affinity agonist-receptor conformation.	Murine neuroblastoma cells (clone N1E-115) possess two subtypes of the muscarinic receptor each of which separately mediates a cyclic nucleotide response. The formation of cyclic GMP is postulated to involve a low affinity agonist-receptor conformation, whereas the reduction of prostaglandin E1-stimulated cyclic AMP formation appears to involve a high affinity conformation. Further evidence supporting this hypothesis was obtained in experiments measuring the equilibrium dissociation constants for the full agonist carbachol by the method of partial receptor inactivation. Quinuclidinyl benzilate (QNB) was employed to occlude muscarinic receptors; measurements with [3H] QNB ensured that the amount of QNB appearing in the assay after washout had only a minimal effect on the determination of the equilibrium dissociation constants. Carbachol mediated cyclic GMP formation with an equilibrium dissociation constant (KD) of 325 microM and cyclic AMP reductions with a KD value of 13 microM. These KD values are similar to but somewhat higher than those determined by direct binding at 15 degrees, and they are strong evidence in support of the view that a low affinity conformation mediates cyclic GMP formation, whereas a high affinity conformation mediates cyclic AMP reductions.
Different antagonist binding properties of rat pancreatic and cardiac muscarinic receptors.	The antagonist binding properties of rat pancreatic and cardiac muscarinic receptors were compared. In both tissues pirenzepine (PZ) had a low affinity for muscarinic receptors labelled by (3H)N-methylscopolamine [3)NMS) (KD values of 140 and 280 nM, respectively, in pancreatic and cardiac homogenates). The binding properties of pancreatic and cardiac receptors were, however, markedly different. This was indicated by different affinities for dicyclomine, (11-([(2-[diethylamino)-methyl)-1-piperidinyl] acetyl)-5, 11-dihydro-6H-pyrido(2,3-b)(1,4) benzodiazepin-6-on) (AFDX-116), 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methyl-piperidine methobromide (4-DAMP) and hexahydrosiladifenidol (HHSiD). Pancreatic and cardiac muscarinic receptors also showed different (3H)NMS association and dissociation rates. These results support the concept of M2 receptor heterogeneity and confirm that M2 receptor subtypes have different binding kinetic properties.
Characterization of cholinergic muscarinic receptors in the rabbit iris.	The sphincter smooth muscle of the iris is innervated by excitatory parasympathetic nerve fibers, and the activation of these fibers results in the breakdown of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate into its derived second messengers, myosin light chain phosphorylation and muscle contraction. The present study characterizes the muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) of the rabbit iris employing [3H]N-methylscopolamine ([3H]NMS) and L-[3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate ([3H]QNB) as probes. Binding studies indicated that [3H]NMS and [3H]QNB bound to homogeneous populations of mAChRs with apparent Bmax values of 0.67 and 1.09 pmol/mg protein respectively. Binding of radioligands was rapid, saturable, stereospecific, reversible, and inhibited by specific muscarinic agonists and antagonists in a competitive manner. [3H]NMS displayed a lower amount of nonspecific binding and a faster association and dissociation rate than [3H]QNB. The relative potencies for displacement of both radioligands, based on their Ki values, were (-)QNB greater than atropine greater than (+)QNB greater than pirenzepine greater than pilocarpine. Antagonist displacement of the radioligands appeared to obey the law of mass action, indicating interaction with a single binding site. However, displacement of the radioligands by the agonists carbamylcholine and methacholine indicated interaction with both high and low affinity binding sites. Comparison of the displacement of [3H]NMS and [3H]QNB by pirenzepine in microsomal fractions from rabbit iris, ileal muscle and cerebral cortex revealed the presence of a single subtype of mAChR in the iris which had an affinity for PZ that was slightly higher than that of ileal M2 receptors, but lower than that of brain M1 receptors. This suggests that the mAChRs in the iris may represent a subclass of receptors within the M2 subtype, or they may constitute an entirely different subtype of mAChRs.
Evidence that hyperglycemia increases muscarinic binding in pancreatic islets of the rat.	We studied the effects of fasting and of diabetes on binding of [3H]methylscopolamine to pancreatic islets of the rat. In nondiabetic rats, fasting for 36 h decreased binding of the muscarinic antagonist by 33% (P less than 0.05). Fasting also abolished the insulin response to 10 microM acetylcholine. Diabetes was induced by injecting streptozotocin (STZ) neonatally in rats. At the time of the experiments (6-10 weeks of age) these rats exhibited hyperglycemia (12.6 +/- 1.0 vs. 7.1 +/- 0.3 mM blood glucose in nondiabetics) but had a normal weight. Relative to islets from age- and sex-matched nondiabetic rats, islets from STZ rats were smaller (0.7 +/- 0.1 vs. 1.9 +/- 0.2 nl islet volume) and contained less insulin (218 +/- 33 vs. 1390 +/- 71 microU/islet). When calculated per islet volume, binding of [3H]methylscopolamine to STZ islets was enhanced by 80% in comparison to binding to normal islets (P less than 0.001). Scatchard analysis indicated that enhanced binding was due to increased number of binding sites. Cholinergic-induced insulin release, as assessed by carbamylcholine, was 37% higher in STZ than in normal islets (P less than 0.05) when expressed per islet volume and 3- to 4-fold enhanced in STZ islets when expressed per islet insulin content. Insulin treatment of STZ rats for 3 days lowered blood glucose, diminished binding of [3H]methylscopolamine, and abolished carbamylcholine-induced insulin secretion. We conclude that the level of glycemia in vivo participates in the regulation of the number of muscarinic receptors in the pancreatic islet and that such regulation is associated with changes in cholinergic-induced insulin secretion.
Comparison of in vitro actions with behavioral effects of antimuscarinic agents.	In vitro potencies of a series of muscarinic antagonists were compared with their effects on operant behavior. Ki values for inhibition of [3H]N-methylscopolamine binding in N4TG1 neuroblastoma cells correlated positively with ED50 values for the inhibition of carbachol-induced alpha-amylase release from pancreatic acini cells and with KB values for inhibition of acetylcholine-induced contractions of guinea pig ileum. The rank order of potency for inhibition of [3H]N-methylscopolamine binding was quinuclidinyl benzilate = quinuclidinyl xanthene-9-carboxylate greater than (methyl atropine = atropine) greater than benactyzine greater than azaprophen greater than (adiphenine = aprophen) greater than pirenzepine greater than ethyl aprophen. The M1 antagonist, pirenzepine, was a weak inhibitor in the guinea pig ileum and alpha-amylase assays relative to its ability to inhibit [3H]N-methylscopolamine binding; azaprophen exhibited the opposite relationship. Lever-press responses of rats were maintained by food delivery under a schedule requiring 10 responses for each food presentation. The high response rates engendered by this schedule were decreased in a dose-dependent manner by all compounds. The order of potency for this behavioral effect (ED50) was atropine = azaprophen greater than aprophen greater than (methyl atropine = benactyzine) greater than pirenzepine greater than adiphenine. Behavioral depressant actions of the antimuscarinics correlated positively with their potencies in inhibiting alpha-amylase secretion. Pirenzepine was unique in being relatively more potent in its behavioral effects than in its actions in vitro. In contrast to the other antimuscarinic agents studied, the benzilates, benactyzine, aprophen and adiphenine, but not azaprophen, increased behavioral response rates.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Reconstitution of solubilized atrial cholinergic muscarinic receptors in liposomes.	The reconstitution of solubilized bovine atrial cholinergic muscarinic receptor into liposomes made of exogenous lipids has been achieved by polyethyleneglycol precipitation. Of the different lipid mixtures used, soybean lecithins were shown to be the best on the basis of receptor recovery. The receptor reconstituted into soybean lecithins liposomes exhibited ligand binding properties very similar to those of the native receptor. The dissociation constant of [3H]-N-methyl-scopolamine ([3H]NMS) was 0.46 and 0.30 nM as determined by equilibrium and kinetics experiments respectively. The potency of a range of muscarinic ligands in displacing [3H]NMS binding was atropine greater than methyl-atropine greater than scopolamine greater than pirenzepine oxotremorine greater than gallamine greater than carbamylcholine greater than pilocarpine bethanechol. The Hill slopes of the displacement curves were near 1 for the antagonists and smaller than 1 for the agonists and for gallamine. The agonist binding may be modulated by guanine nucleotides. These results indicate that soybean lecithins fulfill the lipid requirements for the reconstitution of the atrial muscarinic receptor.
Muscarinic cholinergic receptors on intact human lymphocytes. Properties and subclass characterization.	Saturable specific binding of tritiated N-methyl-scopolamine (3H-NMS) can be demonstrated on intact circulating human lymphocytes, with an average KD of 7 nmol/liter and an average density of about 15 fmol/10(6) cells. Specific 3H-NMS binding can be inhibited by cholinergic antagonists and agonists, is highly stereospecific for the enantiomers of the cholinergic antagonist quinuclidinyl benzilate (QNB), and is modulated by the stable guanosine triphosphate (GTP) analog GppNHp in a fashion similar to the specific binding of the same radioligand to rat heart membranes. The results indicate the presence of muscarinic cholinergic receptors on intact human lymphocytes, with a predominance of the M2 subtype. As central muscarinic cholinergic receptors have been reported to play an important role in the pathogenesis of affective disorders, the lymphocyte might represent a suitable model for the study of muscarinic receptor functions in humans.
Discrimination by N-ethylmaleimide between the chronotropic and inotropic response to muscarinic receptor stimulation in rat atrium.	N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) rapidly blocked the negative chronotropic effect of carbachol on rat right atrium. In contrast, NEM did not reduce the negative inotropic response to muscarinic (M) receptor stimulation. Carbachol inhibited the specific binding of [3H]-N-methylscopolamine [( 3H]-NMS) to membranes of rat atria as reflected by a shallow inhibition curve. Both guanosine triphosphate (GTP) and NEM shifted the [3H]-NMS inhibition curves of carbachol to the right. Pretreatment of the atrial membranes with NEM abolished the GTP-induced rightward shift. However, when instead of the membranes the intact atria were pre-incubated with NEM, no interaction between NEM and GTP in the membranal preparation was observed. The results indicate that NEM sharply discriminated between the inotropic and chronotropic effects to M-receptor stimulation in rat atria. The inhibitory effect of NEM on the M-receptor-mediated negative chronotropic effect in rat atrium cannot be explained by an interaction of the sulfhydryl reagent with GTP-binding proteins, like Ni or No.
Muscarinic receptor coupling to intracellular calcium release in rat pancreatic acinar carcinoma.	Analysis by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of cholinergic receptor protein affinity labeled with the muscarinic antagonist [3H]propylbenzilylcholine mustard revealed a major polypeptide with molecular weight of 80,000-83,000 in both acinar carcinoma and normal acinar cells of rat pancreas. Muscarinic receptor protein is therefore conserved in pancreatic acinar carcinoma. A small but significant difference was detected in the affinity of carcinoma cell receptors (Kd approximately 0.6 nM) and normal cell receptors (Kd approximately 0.3 nM) for reversible binding of the muscarinic antagonist drug, N-methylscopolamine. In addition, carcinoma cell muscarinic receptors displayed homogeneous binding of the agonist drugs carbamylcholine (Kd approximately 31 microM) and oxotremorine (Kd approximately 4 microM), whereas normal cell receptors demonstrated heterogeneous binding, with a minor receptor population showing high affinity binding for carbamylcholine (Kd approximately 3 microM) and oxotremorine (Kd approximately 160 nM), and a major population showing low affinity binding for carbamylcholine (Kd approximately 110 microM) and oxotremorine (Kd approximately 18 microM). Both carcinoma and normal cells exhibited concentration-dependent carbamylcholine-stimulated increases in cytosolic free Ca2+, as measured by 45Ca2+ outflux assay and intracellular quin 2 fluorescence. However, carcinoma cells were observed to be more sensitive to Ca2+ mobilizing actions of submaximal carbamylcholine concentrations, demonstrating 50% maximal stimulation of intracellular Ca2+ release at a carbamylcholine concentration (approximately 0.4 microM) approximately one order of magnitude below that seen for normal cells. These results indicate altered muscarinic receptor coupling to intracellular Ca2+ release in acinar carcinoma cells, which manifests as a single activated receptor state for agonist binding, and increased sensitivity of Ca2+ release in response to muscarinic receptor stimulation.
Kinetic studies of [3H]-N-methylscopolamine binding to muscarinic receptors in the rat central nervous system: evidence for the existence of three classes of binding sites.	We compared the binding of [N-methyl-3H]scopolamine methyl chloride [( 3H]NMS) and pirenzepine to muscarinic receptors in four regions of the rat central nervous system (cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and cerebellum) and in rat heart. Equilibrium binding studies suggested the existence of three classes of receptors: A, receptors with high affinity for pirenzepine and [3H] NMS (in cortex, hippocampus, and striatum); B, receptors with intermediate affinity for pirenzepine and high affinity for [3H]NMS (in the same brain regions); and C, receptors with low affinity for pirenzepine and [3H]NMS (in cerebellum and heart). Dissociation kinetic studies indicated that the receptor types A, B, and C had different koff values allowing, therefore, a separate study of their binding properties. We observed that: [3H]NMS recognized muscarinic receptors A, B, and C with the following order of potency: B greater than A much greater than C; and pirenzepine recognized these receptors with a different order of potency: A much greater than B greater than C. Thus, dissociation kinetics provide a useful tool to identify muscarinic receptor types.
Functional expression of a cloned Drosophila muscarinic acetylcholine receptor in a stable Drosophila cell line.	A cloned Drosophila muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) has been stably expressed in a Drosophila cell line (S2) under the control of an inducible Drosophila metallothionein promoter. A clonal cell line (S2-Dm1-1) has been isolated which, after induction of mAChR expression with CuSO4, exhibits high-affinity, saturable, specific binding of the muscarinic antagonist N-methyl scopolamine (NMS). The apparent molecular mass of the expressed protein, calculated by sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), is in good agreement with the apparent molecular mass of mAChRs purified from Drosophila brain. Functional expression of the cloned mAChR in this stable cell line has been demonstrated by quantitative fluorescence ratio-imaging of Fura-2-loaded cells. We have observed transient, agonist-induced elevations in intracellular Ca2+ levels which can be completely blocked by atropine, whereas AFDX-116, a muscarinic antagonist which binds preferentially to the vertebrate mAChR M2 subtype, has little effect at 100 mumol l-1. The suitability of this stable Drosophila expression system for the characterization of neurotransmitter receptors is discussed.
Localization of muscarinic m3 receptor protein and M3 receptor binding in rat brain.	A family of receptor subtypes, defined either by molecular (m1-m5) or pharmacological (M1-M4) analysis, mediates muscarinic cholinergic neurotransmission in brain. The distribution and functions of the m3 receptor protein in brain and its relation to M3 ligand binding sites are poorly understood. To better characterize the native brain receptors, subtype-specific antibodies reactive with the putative third inner loops were used: (i) to measure the abundance of m3 protein and its regional distribution in rat brain by immunoprecipitation; (ii) to determine the cellular and subcellular distribution of m3 protein by light microscopic immunocytochemistry; and (iii) to compare the distribution of m3 immunoreactivity with the autoradiographic distribution of M3 binding sites labeled by [3H]4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methyl piperidine methioxide in the presence of antagonists selective for the other receptor binding sites. The m3 protein, measured by immunoprecipitation, accounted for 5-10% of total solubilized receptors in all brain regions studied. Immunocytochemistry also revealed a widespread distribution of m3-like immunoreactivity, and localized the subtype to discrete neuronal populations and distinct subcellular compartments. The distribution of m3 protein was consistent with the messenger RNA expression, and like M3 binding sites, the protein was enriched in limbic cortical regions, striatum, hippocampus, anterior thalamic nuclei, superior colliculus and pontine nuclei. However, m3 immunoreactivity and M3 binding were differentially localized in regions and lamina of cortex and hippocampus. The results confirm the presence of m3 protein in brain, its low abundance compared to other muscarinic receptor subtypes, and provide the first immunocytochemical map of its precise localization. The distribution of m3 suggests that it mediates a wide variety of cholinergic processes in brain, including possible roles in learning and memory, motor function and behavioral state control. However, since the distribution of the molecularly-defined receptor protein is distinct from the pharmacologically-defined M3 binding site, investigations of the functions of m3 in brain must await development of more selective ligands or use of non-pharmacological approaches.
Functional role of a cytoplasmic aromatic amino acid in muscarinic receptor-mediated activation of phospholipase C.	The N-terminal portion of the third intracellular loop (i3) of muscarinic acetylcholine and other G protein-coupled receptors has been shown to largely determine the G protein coupling profile of a given receptor subtype. Using the rat m3 muscarinic receptor as a model system, we have recently demonstrated that a tyrosine residue (Tyr-254), located at the beginning of the i3 domain, is critically involved in muscarinic receptor-mediated stimulation of phosphatidylinositol (PI) hydrolysis (Blml, K., Mutschler, E., and Wess, J. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 402-405). This study was designed to investigate the functional role of this amino acid in further molecular detail. Replacement of Tyr-254 (rat m3 receptor) with alanine or exchange of its position with Ile-253 virtually abolished receptor-mediated stimulation of PI hydrolysis studied in transfected COS-7 cells. In contrast, substitution of Tyr-254 by other aromatic residues such as phenylalanine or tryptophan resulted in mutant receptors that behaved functionally similar to the wild type m3 receptor. Introduction of Tyr-254 into the corresponding position (Ser-210) of the m2 muscarinic receptor (which is only poorly coupled to PI turnover) did not result in an enhanced PI response. However, "reinsertion" of Tyr-254 into a functionally inactive chimeric m3/m2 muscarinic receptor (containing m2 receptor sequence at the N terminus of the i3 loop) yielded a mutant receptor that was able to stimulate PI hydrolysis to a similar maximum extent as the wild type m3 receptor. Taken together, our data provide strong evidence that muscarinic receptor-mediated stimulation of PI metabolism is critically dependent on the presence and proper positioning of an aromatic residue at the beginning of the i3 loop.
Sequestration of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in permeabilized neuroblastoma cells.	The feasibility of using a permeabilized preparation of human SH-SY-5Y neuroblastoma cells for studies of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) sequestration has been evaluated. Exposure of cells permeabilized with digitonin, streptolysin-O, or the alpha-toxin from Staphylococcus aureus to oxotremorine-M (Oxo-M) for 30 min resulted in a 25-30% reduction in the number of cell surface mAChRs, as monitored by the loss of N[3H]methylscopolamine ([3H]NMS) binding sites. The corresponding value for intact cells was 40%. For cells permeabilized with 20 microM digitonin, the Oxo-M-mediated reduction in [3H]NMS binding was time (t1/2 approximately 5 min) and concentration (EC50 approximately 10 microM) dependent and was agonist specific (Oxo-M > bethanechol = arecoline = pilocarpine). In contrast, no reduction in total mAChR number, as monitored by the binding of [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate, occurred following Oxo-M treatment. The loss of [3H]NMS sites observed in the presence of Oxo-M was unaffected by omission of either ATP or Ca2+, both of which are required for stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis, but could be inhibited by the inclusion of guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate). mAChRs sequestered in response to Oxo-M addition were unmasked when the cells were permeabilized in the presence of higher concentrations of digitonin (80 microM).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Muscarinic receptor characteristics and regulation in rat cerebral cortex: changes during development, aging and the oestrous cycle.	The effects of postnatal development, aging and the oestrous cycle on muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) properties were examined in in vitro living slices of rat neocortex. Using the hydrophilic antagonist ([3H]NMS) to label cell surface mAChRs, an increase in both Bmax and Kd was found during the first postnatal weeks. These values peaked at between 20-40 days postnatally and then declined to adult levels. After 3 months of age, a steady decline in receptor number started: it was 10.1% lower at 10 months and 38.7% lower at 17 months of age. In contrast, Kd values increased, being 31.7 and 20% higher respectively at these ages. Carbachol-induced (4 h at 37 degrees C) down-regulation of receptor number was approximately 22.2% in newborn and 26.1% in adult (3-month-old) rats, but only 16.3% at 20-40 days of age. The degree of carbachol-induced down-regulation of mAChR was not affected in the older animals. Veratridine, which increases neural activity, also induced a significant reduction in [3H]NMS binding sites of 11.4% in rats aged 0-20 days and 22.4% in 3-month-old rats, but at 20-40 and 40-60 days of age no significant down-regulation of receptor number was observed. Furthermore, down-regulation was absent in the 10-month-old rats as well. Since a great variation in Bmax and Kd values was seen in 3-month-old females but not in male rats, we investigated mAChR characteristics during the oestrous cycle of female rats. In pro-oestrus, mACh receptor number was increased and affinity decreased in comparison with di-oestrus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Search for the pharmacophore of bispyridinium-type allosteric modulators of muscarinic receptors.	The bis(dichlorobenzyl) ether of the bispyridinium oxime TMB 4 stabilizes antagonist binding to M2-cholinoceptors which is indicative of an allosteric action. More than 10 derivatives of the lead compound were synthesized to investigate structure-activity relationships. The allosteric potency of the compounds was indicated by the concentrations which retarded the rate of dissociation of [3H]N-methylscopolamine from porcine cardiac cholinoceptors by a factor of 2 (EC50). Compared with TMB 4, the bis(dichlorobenzyl) derivative 4a displayed a more than 200-fold higher potency (EC50 = 4.7 microM). One of the dichlorobenzyl groups could be replaced by a methyl group without loss of activity (EC50 = 4.5 microM). Further shortening of this end of the molecule was accompanied by a moderate decline in potency to a minimum of EC50 = 26 microM. The second quaternary nitrogen was not a prerequisite for an allosteric activity. It is concluded that one half of the lead compound is pivotal for an interaction with the allosteric site of the M2-cholinoceptor, whereas the opposite end of the molecule modulates the allosteric activity.
Relationship between muscarinic receptor occupancy and response in rat parotid acinar cells.	To determine whether spare muscarinic cholinergic receptors (mAChRs) exist in rat parotid acinar cells, we examined the effect of propylbenzilylcholine mustard (PBCM) on agonist (carbachol)-stimulated inositol trisphosphate (IP3) formation and on mAChR number, using l-[N-methyl-3H]scopolamine methyl chloride (NMS)-binding assays. Treatment with PBCM (1, 3, 10, 30, 50 nM) for 15 min caused a 5, 22, 60, 66, and 72% decrease, respectively, in maximal IP3 formation stimulated by carbachol as well as a large reduction in the potency of carbachol in eliciting this response. Using these data, equilibrium constants (Ka) for activation of the mAChRs by carbachol were calculated. These Ka values agreed well with Kd values of high-affinity mAChR binding sites determined from carbachol displacement of [3H]NMS binding in parotid acinar cells. Reduction in mAChR number after PBCM treatment was determined by Scatchard analysis of specific [3H]-NMS binding sites and compared with the expected reduction (q values) calculated from dose-response curves for carbachol-stimulated IP3 formation before and after PBCM treatment. PBCM (1, 3, 10, 30 nM) decreased mAChR maximal binding in cells 47.5, 68.9, 82.4, and 85.3%, respectively, which did agree with the approximately 38, 70, 90, and 92% decrease in receptor number expected from the calculated q values. Data demonstrate that PBCM irreversibly inactivates mAChRs in rat parotid cells, and the decrease in receptor number, measured directly from [3H]NMS binding or calculated from receptor theory, is greater than that observed for stimulated IP3 production. These results suggest that a modest (30-40%) population of spare receptors exists for mAChR-mediated IP3 production in rat parotid glands.
Allosteric and competitive interactions of 2 alpha-(2',2'-disubstituted- hydroxy-ethoxy)tropane and its optical isomers at rat central muscarinic acetylcholine receptors.	Both allosteric and competitive interactions of 2 alpha-(2',2'-disubstituted-hydroxy-ethoxy)tropane (2 alpha-DHET) and its four optical isomers with muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in rat cerebral cortex were investigated. 2 alpha-DHET and its optical isomers allosterically decelerated the dissociation of bound [3H]N-methylscopolamine in a concentration-dependent manner, but these compounds failed to decelerate the dissociation of bound [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate. The potencies of 2 alpha-DHET and its optical isomers to decelerate the dissociation of bound [3H]N-methylscopolamine were not differed significantly, but the competitive binding potencies of these compounds were significantly different. The order of potencies of 2 alpha-DHET and its four optical isomers to inhibit the binding of [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate to central muscarinic acetylcholine receptors was 1S-2 alpha-2'R > 1R-2 alpha-2'R > 2 alpha-DHET > 1S-2 alpha-2'S > 1R-2 alpha-2'S the isomer with 1S-2 alpha-2'R configuration was about two orders of magnitude more potent than the isomer with 1R-2 alpha-2'S configuration. The allosteric potencies were found not to be correlated with their competitive binding potencies.
Contrasting effects of phorbol ester and agonist-mediated activation of protein kinase C on phosphoinositide and Ca2+ signalling in a human neuroblastoma.	The effects of protein kinase C (PKC) activation on muscarinic receptor-mediated phosphoinositide and Ca2+ signalling were examined in the human neuroblastoma, SH-SY5Y. Carbachol evoked rapid transient elevations of Ins(1,4,5)P3 and intracellular [Ca2+] followed by lower sustained elevations. Phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu) preferentially attenuated transient phases. Removal of the transplasmalemmal Ca2+ gradient coupled with depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores with thapsigargin also reduced carbachol-mediated Ins(1,4,5)P3 accumulation. Under these conditions, PDBu virtually abolished Ins(1,4,5)P3 responses to carbachol thereby implicating both Ca(2+)- and PKC-sensitive components. PDBu also reduced agonist-mediated accumulation of inositol phosphates and depletion of lipids, thereby eliminating an effect of PKC on Ins(1,4,5)P3 metabolism or phosphoinositide synthesis. In electroporated cells, PDBu inhibited Ins(1,4,5)P3 accumulation mediated by carbachol or guanosine 5'-[gamma-thio]-triphosphate, the latter indicating that some PDBu-sensitive elements were downstream of the receptor. The PKC inhibitor, Ro-318220, protected against PDBu but did not enhance responses to maximal concentrations of carbachol, indicating no feedback inhibition by agonist-activated PKC. Muscarinic antagonist activity of Ro-318220 complicated such assessment at low agonist concentrations. Carbachol or PDBu induced cytosol to membrane translocation of PKC alpha. This was faster and possibly greater with PDBu, which may explain the lack of feedback by agonist-activated PKC. These results indicate that, in SH-SY5Y cells, PDBu activation of PKC preferentially inhibits rapid muscarinic receptor-mediated phosphoinositide and Ca2+ responses via suppression of PtdIns(4,5)P2 hydrolysis. This is at least partially through inhibition of Gq-protein/phosphoinositidase C coupling. However, at least at high agonist concentrations, a major agonist-mediated PKC feedback is not present in these cells.
Partial purification of an endogenous inhibitor of muscarinic ligand binding.	An endogenous inhibitory factor (EIF alpha) to the binding of a muscarinic antagonist, [3H]N-methyl scopolamine ([3H]NMS), has been partially (12-fold) purified from the soluble fraction of the ileal longitudinal muscle of guinea-pigs using a heat-treatment, isoelectric fractionation, and DEAE-column chromatography. The EIF alpha inhibited the [3H]NMS binding to the longitudinal muscle membrane with an IC50 of 53.6 micrograms/ml. This was about 230-fold potent than the non-specific inhibition of [3H]NMS binding by bovine serum albumin (BSA). Zn2+ (0.1 mM) almost completely blocked the inhibitory activity of EIF alpha, whereas such the effect of Zn2+ was not observed in the inhibition by BSA. These results suggest that EIF alpha inhibits the [3H]NMS binding to the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor in a different manner from non-specific interaction with the receptor.
Altered intracellular Ca2+ regulation in pancreatic acinar cells from acute streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	We investigated intracellular Ca2+ regulation in pancreatic acinar cells from rats with diabetes induced by a single injection of streptozotocin (80 mg/kg). Experiments were performed 2 days and 7 days after the injection of streptozotocin. The density of muscarinic receptors, measured by [3H]N-methyl scopolamine binding, was unchanged in 2-day-diabetic rats, but was significantly increased in 7-day-diabetic rats. The percentage of high affinity receptors (RH) and low affinity receptors (RL) determined from the competitive curves with [3H]N-methyl scopolamine and carbachol was not change in 2-day-diabetic rats compared to controls, whereas 7-day-diabetic rats showed a decrease in %RH and an increase in %RL. The carbachol-evoked initial peak of intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) was increased in 2-day-diabetic rats and decreased in 7-day-diabetic rats, compared to controls. In the carbachol-induced sustained phase in [Ca2+]i, the response in 7-day-diabetic rats was significantly decreased; however, there was no difference between controls and 2-day-diabetic rats. Carbachol (100 microM)-induced [3H]inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate generation was significantly lower in diabetic rats than in the controls. The addition of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (1,4,5-IP3) significantly increased 45Ca2+ release from saponin-permeabilized cells in 2-day-diabetic rats, but did not do so in 7-day-diabetic rats. Ca2+ refilling into the intracellular stores, determined by second cholecystokinin-8 (10 nM) stimulation after 10 microM carbachol stimulation, was increased in 2-day-diabetic rats and decreased in 7-day-diabetic rats. These observations indicate that the alterations in intracellular Ca2+ regulation accompanied by changes in transmembrane signaling occur in the earlier stage of the diabetic state. The findings also suggest that the increase in the carbachol-evoked [Ca2+]i peak in 2-day-diabetic rats is related predominantly to the higher sensitivity of 1,4,5-IP3-sensitive Ca2+ stores and the increase in the capacity of Ca2+ refilling in these animals, whereas the reduction in the [Ca2+]i peak in 7-day-diabetic rats appears to be related to the essential decrease in receptor-mediated 1,4,5-IP3 generation and the decrease in Ca2+ refilling capacity.
