Molecular distinction between pathogenic and infectious properties of the prion protein.	Tg(PG14) mice express a prion protein (PrP) with a nine-octapeptide insertion associated with a human familial prion disease. These animals spontaneously develop a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by ataxia, neuronal apoptosis, and accumulation in the brain of an aggregated and weakly protease-resistant form of mutant PrP (designated PG14(spon)). Brain homogenates from Tg(PG14) mice fail to transmit disease after intracerebral inoculation into recipient mice, indicating that PG14(spon), although pathogenic, is distinct from PrP(Sc), the infectious form of PrP. In contrast, inoculation of Tg(PG14) mice with exogenous prions of the RML strain induces accumulation of PG14(RML), a PrP(Sc) form of the mutant protein that is infectious and highly protease resistant. Like PrP(Sc), both PG14(spon) and PG14(RML) display conformationally masked epitopes in the central and octapeptide repeat regions. However, these two forms differ profoundly in their oligomeric states, with PG14(RML) aggregates being much larger and more resistant to dissociation. Our analysis provides new molecular insight into an emerging puzzle in prion biology, the discrepancy between the infectious and neurotoxic properties of PrP.
Flexible N-terminal region of prion protein influences conformation of protease-resistant prion protein isoforms associated with cross-species scrapie infection in vivo and in vitro.	Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) diseases are characterized by the accumulation in brain of an abnormal protease-resistant form of the host-encoded prion protein (PrP), PrP-res. PrP-res conformation differs among TSE agents derived from various sources, and these conformational differences are thought to influence the biological characteristics of these agents. In this study, we introduced deletions into the flexible N-terminal region of PrP (residues 34-124) and investigated the effect of this region on the conformation of PrP-res generated in an in vitro cell-free conversion assay. PrP deleted from residues 34 to 99 generated 12-16-kDa protease-resistant bands with intact C termini but variable N termini. The variable N termini were the result of exposure of new protease cleavage sites in PrP-res between residues 130 and 157, suggesting that these new cleavage sites were caused by alterations in the conformation of the PrP-res generated. Similarly truncated 12-16-kDa PrP bands were also identified in brain homogenates from mice infected with mouse-passaged hamster scrapie as well as in the cell-free conversion assay using conditions that mimicked the hamster/mouse species barrier to infection. Thus, by its effects on PrP-res conformation, the flexible N-terminal region of PrP seemed to influence TSE pathogenesis and cross-species TSE transmission.
Intrinsic resistance of oligodendrocytes to prion infection.	Within the CNS, the normal form of cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) is expressed on neurons, oligodendrocytes, and astrocytes. The contribution of these cell types to prion replication and pathogenesis is unclear. To assess the role of oligodendrocytes, we expressed PrP(C) under the control of the myelin basic protein (MBP) promoter in mice lacking endogenous PrP(C). PrP(C) was detected in oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells but not in neurons and astrocytes. MBP-PrP mice never developed scrapie after intracerebral, intraperitoneal, or intraocular challenge with scrapie prions. Transgenic brains did not contain protease-resistant prion protein and did not transmit scrapie when inoculated into PrP(C)-overexpressing indicator mice. To investigate whether prion spread within the CNS depends on oligodendrocytic PrP(C), we implanted PrP(C)-overexpressing neuroectodermal grafts into MBP-PrP brains. After intraocular prion inoculation, none of the grafts showed spongiform encephalopathy or prion infectivity. Hence oligodendrocytes do not support cell-autonomous prion replication, establishment of subclinical disease, and neural spread of prions. Prion resistance sets oligodendrocytes aside from both neurons and astrocytes.
Complement component C5 is not involved in scrapie pathogenesis.	During transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) infections the accumulation of abnormal prion protein within the brain is often accompanied by severe neurodegeneration. Studies have implicated complement, including the membrane attack complex (MAC, C5b-C9), in inducing pathology in some neurodegenerative diseases. Recent studies show the MAC is localized on neurons in the brains of TSE patients implicating complement-mediated cell lysis in TSE neuropathology. To determine the role of the MAC in TSEs, we compared scrapie pathogenesis in C5-deficient and C5-sufficient mice. C5-deficient mice developed clinical scrapie with incubation periods similar to C5-sufficient mice. Furthermore, the severity of the neuropathology was not significantly different between C5-deficient and C5-sufficient mice. These data show that C5, and the MAC, are not involved in TSE pathogenesis.
Polymorphisms at codons 108 and 189 in murine PrP play distinct roles in the control of scrapie incubation time.	Susceptibility to transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) is associated strongly with PrP polymorphisms in humans, sheep and rodents. In mice, scrapie incubation time is controlled by polymorphisms at PrP codons 108 (leucine or phenylalanine) and 189 (threonine or valine), but the precise role of each polymorphism in the control of disease is unknown. The L108F and T189V polymorphisms are present in distinct structural regions of PrP and thus provide an excellent model with which to investigate the role of PrP structure and gene variation in TSEs. Two unique lines of transgenic mice, in which 108F and 189V have been targeted separately into the endogenous murine Prnp(a) gene, have been produced. TSE inoculation of inbred lines of mice expressing all allelic combinations at codons 108 and 189 has revealed a complex relationship between PrP allele and incubation time. It has been established that both codons 108 and 189 control TSE incubation time, and that each polymorphism plays a distinct role in the disease process. Comparison of ME7 incubation times in mouse lines that are heterozygous at both codons has also identified a previously unrecognized intramolecular interaction between PrP codons 108 and 189.
Anchorless prion protein results in infectious amyloid disease without clinical scrapie.	In prion and Alzheimer's diseases, the roles played by amyloid versus nonamyloid deposits in brain damage remain unresolved. In scrapie-infected transgenic mice expressing prion protein (PrP) lacking the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) membrane anchor, abnormal protease-resistant PrPres was deposited as amyloid plaques, rather than the usual nonamyloid form of PrPres. Although PrPres amyloid plaques induced brain damage reminiscent of Alzheimer's disease, clinical manifestations were minimal. In contrast, combined expression of anchorless and wild-type PrP produced accelerated clinical scrapie. Thus, the PrP GPI anchor may play a role in the pathogenesis of prion diseases.
Role of the draining lymph node in scrapie agent transmission from the skin.	Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) are neurodegenerative diseases that affect humans and animals. Diseases include scrapie in sheep and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans. Following peripheral exposure, TSE agents usually accumulate on follicular dendritic cells (FDCs) in lymphoid tissues before neuroinvasion. Studies in mice have shown that TSE exposure through scarified skin is an effective means of transmission. Following inoculation by this route TSE agent accumulation upon FDCs is likewise essential for the subsequent transmission of disease to the brain. However, which lymphoid tissues are crucial for TSE pathogenesis following inoculation via the skin was not known. Mice were therefore created that lacked the draining inguinal lymph node (ILN), but had functional FDCs in remaining lymphoid tissues such as the spleen. These mice were inoculated with the scrapie agent by skin scarification to allow the role of draining ILN in scrapie pathogenesis to be determined. We show that following inoculation with the scrapie agent by skin scarification, disease susceptibility was dramatically reduced in mice lacking the draining ILN. These data demonstrate that following inoculation by skin scarification, scrapie agent accumulation upon FDCs in the draining lymph node is critical for the efficient transmission of disease to the brain.
Quantification of Peyer's patches in Cheviot sheep for future scrapie pathogenesis studies.	Peyer's patches (PPs) are the most probable sites of intestinal uptake of the transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) agent. The amount of PP tissue varies considerably between different age groups of individuals, and whether this variation is related to susceptibility to TSE infection raises an intriguing possibility. The purpose of this study was to determine the surface area of PP tissue and the number of associated lymphoid follicles in different age groups of Neuropathogenesis Unit (NPU) Cheviot sheep. Terminal ilea were obtained from 33 sheep of different ages. Samples of ileal tissue were collected for immunocytochemistry and immunolabelled for prion protein (PrP). Specimens were then fixed in acetic acid, stained with methylene blue and transilluminated. Image analysis software was used to calculate the area of intestinal and PP tissue. The number of associated lymphoid follicles was determined using a dissecting microscope. Results showed a marked fall in surface area of PP tissue and lymphoid follicle density around puberty (about 8-9 months of age in NPU Cheviot sheep) and both measures remained low throughout adulthood. Using the Spearman's rank correlation coefficient, r(s), these two measures were found to be closely correlated (r(s)=0.899, n=33, P<0.0001). There was also a significant (negative) correlation between age and the two respective measures (surface area of PP tissue versus age, r(s)=-0.879 (n=33, P<0.0001); lymphoid follicle density versus age r(s)=-0.943 (n=33, P<0.0001). Immunolabelling for PrP was observed primarily in the light zone of lymphoid follicles. Results obtained from this study are useful for future oral pathogenesis studies of the NPU Cheviot flock. They may also offer a possible biological explanation for the apparent age-susceptibility relationship observed in natural cases of TSEs and might help to explain the young age-distribution of cases.
Distinct prion proteins in short and long scrapie incubation period mice.	The Prn-i gene, controlling scrapie incubation period, is linked to or congruent with the murine prion protein (PrP) gene, Prn-p. In prototypic mouse strains with long (l/Ln) and short (NZW) incubation periods, Prn-p transcription is initiated at similar multiple sites. The predicted NZW and l/Ln PrP proteins differ at codons 108 and 189. Codon 189, highly conserved in mammals, lies within a polymorphic BstEll site that is retained in 17 mouse strains known to have short or intermediate incubation times, but is absent in l/Ln and two other inbred mice with long incubation times. Codon 108 in mice with short or intermediate incubation times encodes Leu; in mice with long incubation times it encodes Phe. The correlation of PrP sequence with length of scrapie incubation period suggests, but does not formally prove, congruency between Prn-p and Prn-i.
Analyses of frequency of infection, specific infectivity, and prion protein biosynthesis in scrapie-infected neuroblastoma cell clones.	Scrapie, a spongiform encephalopathy of sheep and goats, is caused by a poorly understood transmissible agent in which no nucleic acid has been conclusively identified. Biochemical characterization of agent derived from animal tissues has not been precise because of the tenacious association of the agent with tissue components. As an approach toward obtaining homogeneous preparations of agent generated in vitro, we cloned scrapie-infected neuroblastoma cells. By frequency analysis, nearly every cell in expanded cultures contained scrapie agent. We also analyzed cell-dose infectivity relationships and developed a standard curve which allowed various cultures to be compared. Since a proteinase K (PK)-resistant form of a protein designated prion protein (PrP) has been found in partially purified preparations of scrapie agent from infected animal spleens and brains, we sought to identify this protein in cell cultures. No PK-resistant PrP was found in infected or uninfected cultures, although the PK-sensitive PrP was readily detected. These results suggested that PK-resistant PrP may not be an essential component of the infectious scrapie agent.
Prions causing degenerative neurological diseases.	Prions cause degenerative neurological diseases--scrapie in animals and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans. The novel properties and structure of the prion distinguish it from viruses.
Thermal stability and conformational transitions of scrapie amyloid (prion) protein correlate with infectivity.	The scrapie amyloid (prion) protein (PrP27-30) is the protease-resistant core of a larger precursor (PrPSc) and a component of the infectious scrapie agent; the potential to form amyloid is a result of posttranslational event or conformational abnormality. The conformation, heat stability, and solvent-induced conformational transitions of PrP27-30 were studied in the solid state in films by CD spectroscopy and correlated with the infectivity of rehydrated and equilibrated films. The exposure of PrP27-30 in films to 60 degrees C, 100 degrees C, and 132 degrees C for 30 min did not change the beta-sheet secondary structure; the infectivity slightly diminished at 132 degrees C and correlated with a decreased solubility of PrP27-30 in sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), probably due to cross-linking. Exposing PrP27-30 films to formic acid (FA), trifluoroacetic acid (TFA), trifluoroethanol (TFE), hexafluoro-2-propanol (HFIP), and SDS transformed the amide CD band, diminished the mean residue ellipticity of aromatic bands, and inactivated scrapie infectivity. The convex constraint algorithm (CAA) deconvolution of the CD spectra of the solvent-exposed and rehydrated solid state PrP27-30 identified five common spectral components. The loss of infectivity quantitatively correlated with a decreasing proportion of native, beta-pleated sheet-like secondary structure component, an increasing amount of alpha-helical component, and an increasingly disordered tertiary structure. The results demonstrate the unusual thermal stability of the beta-sheet secondary structure of PrP27-30 protein in the solid state. The conformational perturbations of PrP27-30 parallel the changes in infectivity and suggest that the beta-sheet structure plays a key role in the physical stability of scrapie amyloid and in the ability to propagate and replicate scrapie.
PrP genotype and agent effects in scrapie: change in allelic interaction with different isolates of agent in sheep, a natural host of scrapie.	Man and sheep are the two species in which spongiform encephalopathies occur naturally, and in which there are recognized genetic components that predispose an individual person or sheep to clinical disease. In both species mutations/polymorphisms in the PrP gene have been linked to the incidence of natural disease, but only in sheep is it possible to investigate by deliberate exposure to infection whether these polymorphisms are directly correlated with survival time. Cheviot sheep of different PrP genotypes were challenged with one of two isolates of scrapie or an isolate of bovine spongiform encephalopathy and the survival time and incidence of disease were monitored. Genotype analysis showed that dimorphisms in codons 136 and 171 of the ovine PrP gene correlated with control of disease incidence and modulation of incubation time. Crucially, the functional effects of these domains of PrP were shown to alternate depending on the isolate of infecting agent.
The Ninth Datta Lecture. Molecular biology of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies.	The prion, the transmissible agent that causes spongiform encephalopathies such as scrapie, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, is believed to be devoid of nucleic acid and identical with PrPSc, a modified form of the normal host protein PrPC which is encoded by the single copy gene Prnp. The 'protein only' hypothesis proposes that PrPSc, when introduced into a normal host, causes the conversion of PrPC into PrPSc; it therefore predicts that an animal devoid of PrPC should be resistant to prion diseases. We generated homozygous Prnp(olo) ('PrP knockout') mice and showed that, after inoculation with prions, they remained free of scrapie for at least 2 years while wild-type controls all died within 6 months. There was no propagation of prions in the Prnp(olo) animals. Surprisingly, heterozygous Prnp(ol+) mice, which express PrPC at about half the normal level, also showed enhanced resistance to scrapie disease despite high levels of infectious agent and PrPSc in the brain early on. After introduction of murine PrP transgenes Prnp(olo) mice became highly susceptible to mouse but not to hamster prions, while the insertion of Syrian hamster PrP transgenes rendered them susceptible to hamster but to a much lesser extent to mouse prions. These complementation experiments paved the way to the application of reverse genetics. We have prepared animals transgenic for genes encoding PrP with amino terminal deletions of various lengths and have found that PrP lacking 48 amino proximal amino acids, which comprise four of the five octa repeats of PrP, is still biologically active.
