A human bite to the scrotum: a case report and review of the literature.	Human bites to the scrotum are rare and can be associated with a high morbidity rate if poorly managed. We report a case of a human bite to the scrotum that was successfully treated with a 5-day course of antibiotics, surgical debridement and healing by secondary intention.
Value of testicular ultrasound in the evaluation of blunt scrotal trauma without haematocele.	The value of ultrasound in testicular trauma with haematocele has been questioned inasmuch as the injured testis should always be explored surgically. Ultrasonography, however, plays an important role in the diagnosis and follow-up of patients with blunt scrotal trauma without haematocele. We have evaluated 17 such patients with real-time ultrasound. In 9 cases the testis and epididymis were normal to palpation, although in 6 of them parenchymal lesions, mainly subcapsular haematomas and parenchymal contusions not amenable to surgical intervention, were detected with ultrasonography. Seven patients presented with changes in the testicular or epididymal morphology at palpation and in 1 case the testes were not palpable. Ultrasonography was of great value, indicating surgery in 6 of these patients where physical examination alone was not sufficient to establish the need for surgical exploration.
Genital foreign bodies: more than the eye can see.	Genital foreign bodies constitute a diverse but surprisingly common means of presentation to emergency departments. Although the presentation usually means the initial diagnosis is easily made, we present a case here that stresses the importance of attention to history, clinical examination and radiological investigation. A 44-year-old gentleman presented with a history of pain and discharge from a self-inflicted scrotal wound. Further questioning revealed a history of genital foreign bodies, but the full extent of his condition was not apparent until plain pelvic radiographs were obtained. The initial management of genital foreign bodies follows basic surgical principles. Constricting bands must be removed, devitalized tissues debrided and the surgical field extensively irrigated. Underlying psychiatric illness may be present and a high index of suspicion is required in the initial assessment of such patients. A plain pelvic radiograph is recommended to fully identify all foreign bodies present.
Ultrastructural study of severe testicular damage following acute scrotal thermal injury.	The scrotum provides an appropriate environment for the testicles that is essential for spermatogenesis. The aim of this study was to investigate the severity of ultrastructural damage to the testicles after acute thermal injury.
US of acute scrotal trauma: optimal technique, imaging findings, and management.	The primary causes of scrotal trauma are blunt, penetrating, degloving, and electrical burn injuries to scrotal contents. Knowledge of the scrotal anatomy and appropriate imaging techniques are key for accurate evaluation of scrotal injuries. Ultrasonography (US) is the first-line imaging modality to help guide therapy for scrotal trauma, except in degloving injury, which results in scrotal skin avulsion. Blunt injury (eg, from an athletic accident or motor vehicle collision) is the most common cause of scrotal trauma, followed by penetrating injury from gunshot or other assault. Trauma often may result in hematoma, hydrocele, hematocele, testicular fracture, or testicular rupture. The timely diagnosis of rupture, based on a US finding of discontinuity of the echogenic tunica albuginea, is critical because emergent surgery results in salvage of the testis in 80%-90% of rupture cases. The radiologist should be familiar also with other nuances associated with penetrating trauma, iatrogenic and postoperative complications, and electrical injury. Color flow and duplex Doppler imaging are highly useful techniques not only for assessing testicular viability and perfusion but also for evaluating associated vascular injuries such as pseudoaneurysms. A thorough familiarity with the US findings of scrotal trauma helps facilitate appropriate management. Supplemental material available at radiographics.rsnajnls.org/cgi/content/full/27/2/357/DC1.
Genital injuries in boys and abuse.	To describe a cohort of boys with genital injuries in whom child abuse was suspected.
Color Doppler US of the scrotum.	Color Doppler ultrasonography (US) is an increasingly important tool in the evaluation of the scrotum, especially in acute scrotal disorders. With this modality, arterial flow is readily detected in the normal spermatic cord and testis but is not seen in the epididymis; venous flow is not seen anywhere in the normal scrotum. Scrotal inflammatory lesions appear as hypervascularity of the epididymis or testis, even though gray-scale findings may be normal or nonspecific. Testicular torsion is demonstrated by an absence or marked decrease in the number of visible vessels. Small tumors (less than 1.5 cm) are hypovascular, and larger tumors (greater than 1.5 cm) are hypervascular. The modality also demonstrates Valsalva maneuver-induced venous flow augmentation in varicoceles and altered flow in testicular tumors. Color Doppler US allows for evaluation of morphologic findings and perfusion and enables accurate diagnosis of most scrotal disorders.
Genitoperineal injuries associated with the use of an orthopedic table with a perineal posttraction.	Surgical treatment of lower extremity fractures commonly involves the use of orthopedic table with perineal post for countertraction. However, prolonged application of the perineal post has been associated with significant complications. We describe our experience in the management of genitoperineal cutaneous injuries associated with the use of a traction table.
Traumatic degloving lesion of male external genitalia.	Injury to the male external genitalia is relatively uncommon when compared with other parts of the human body. Trauma to external genitalia could result from accidents involving motor vehicles, power farm machinery, gun shot and stab injuries. We present a rare case of traumatic degloving injury of male external genitalia associated with partial penile amputation and loss of both testes sparing the internal abdominal and pelvic organs, resulting from run over by a heavy vehicle tyre.
Management of auto-emasculation in the psychotic state.	We report 2 cases of self-inflicted penile amputations, which offered differing surgical options and contrasting surgical results due to varying time delays. In 1 case repair was done immediately, while repair in the other case was delayed by 3 days due to the psychotic state of the patient. The psychiatric backgrounds of such episodes are discussed, as well as the techniques of repair and reconstruction.
Moyamoya disease in which pentazocine treatment caused cerebral infarction.	A 37-year-old man was admitted to hospital for treatment of perineum damage and haematoma in the scrotum. His consciousness deteriorated after two intramuscular injections of pentazocine 15 mg. Faint low signals in the left putamin to frontal island and frontal lobe and obnubilation of the corticomedullary junction were apparent on head CT, which led to suspicion of cerebral infarction. MR angiography showed bilateral obstruction of the middle cerebral artery and moyamoya disease was diagnosed. Treatment with edaravone, argatroban and heparin was ineffective for opening the middle cerebral artery and serious after effects occurred. This case suggests that cerebrovascular accident should be suspected in a young patient with disturbance of consciousness but stable breathing and circulation, particularly if previous drug treatment has affected brain circulation. Moyamoya disease should be suspected based on medical or family history. In such a case, MR angiography is required for early diagnosis to facilitate treatment by re-establishment of blood circulation.
Advances in diagnosis and management of genital injuries.	External genital trauma is uncommon. However when it occurs, it can cause long-term physical, psychological, and functional quality-of-life sequelae. Rapid and proper treatment can help preserve cosmesis and function. Therefore, the treating physician must have a high index of suspicion when evaluating genital injuries. This article reviews the proper initial assessment of the injury as well as the immediate and delayed operative management of genital trauma. 
Evaluation of male external genital diseases in the emergency room setting.	This article briefly discusses various diseases of the external genitalia as they pertain to the emergency physician. Conditions emphasized include penile and scrotal trauma, Fournier's gangrene, and the "acute" scrotum. Practical advice regarding diagnosis and treatment is offered.
Dislocation of the testis as a delayed presentation of scrotal trauma.	Traumatic dislocation of the testis is a rare event in which the full extent of the dislocation is present immediately following the initial trauma. We present a case in which the testicular dislocation progressed over a period of four days following the initial scrotal trauma.
The value of ultrasound in the evaluation of patients with blunt scrotal trauma.	Twenty-one men with blunt scrotal trauma managed in the Urology Department of Riyadh Central Hospital are presented. The decision for surgical exploration was strengthened by ultrasonic findings in six patients--four men with haematocoele and ruptured testicles and two with expanding extratesticular haematoma and normal testes. In addition, sonography revealed unsuspected intratesticular haematoma and disrupted tunica albuginea (without haematocoele) in two other cases. One case managed non-operatively developed a testicular abscess detected by ultrasound. Surgery confirmed the diagnoses in all nine cases that were explored. Thirteen patients were managed non-operatively, including six cases in whom sonography revealed contused testes. Hence, the value of ultrasound scanning in evaluating patients after blunt scrotal trauma was established. It complemented clinical findings and detected unsuspected testicular injury.
Reconstruction of the scrotum using a tissue expander]	Traditionally, reconstruction of the scrotum has involved the use of split skin or pedicle flaps with often unsatisfactory aesthetic results. We present two cases with loss of the scrotum as a consequence of Fournier's gangrene. The use of tissue expanders for scrotal reconstruction involves the following advantages: excellent functional and cosmetic results, natural appearance of the neoscrotum, preservation of normal function and sensitivity of scrotal skin, no additional scars from skin grafting, and a simple surgical technique.
A method for optimizing skin graft healing and outcome of wounds of the penile shaft and scrotum.	Split-thickness skin grafting provides the best functional and aesthetic result in the treatment of wounds of the penis and scrotum. Achieving graft adherence and take in this anatomically mobile region is challenging. A simple method of effectively stabilizing skin grafts in the treatment of penile and perineal wounds is described, and patients in whom complete graft take was achieved are discussed.
