Scrub typhus: a frequently overlooked cause of acute renal failure.	Acute renal failure associated with scrub typhus infection is not rare as previously thought. The possibility of scrub typhus should be borne in mind when patients present with fever and varying degrees of acute renal failure, particularly if an eschar exists, along with a history of environmental exposure in an area like Taiwan, where scrub typhus is endemic. Prompt diagnosis and the use of appropriate antibiotics can rapidly alter the clinical course of the disease and prevent the development of serious or fatal complications. To illustrate the above point, this study reports 3 cases of scrub typhus associated with acute renal failure. They were seen at Chang Gung Memorial Hospital in a 2-year interval. Case 1 was referred from district hospital with clinical features of multiple organ dysfunctions, including shock, fever, acute respiratory failure, acute renal failure, and acute hepatitis. Case 2 was admitted with the chief problems of shock, fever, acute renal failure, and DIC. Case 3 visited our outpatient clinic due to fever, maculopapular rash and acute renal failure. In all these patients, the diagnosis was confirmed using immunofluorescence techniques, which showed that Orientia tsutsugamushi had an IgM titer of 1:80 or greater. Notably, despite having varying degrees of acute renal deterioration, the patients responded very well to doxycycline therapy and recovered completely. Additionally, a total of 4 similar cases of scrub typhus associated with acute renal failure were reviewed from the past literature.
In vitro reactivation of human immunodeficiency virus-1 upon stimulation with scrub typhus rickettsial infection.	While a number of microbial infections induce a transient burst in viral load in individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1), a recent study has suggested that scrub typhus may suppress HIV-1 infection. We investigated the effects of Orientia tsutsugamushi on HIV-1 infection. In vitro HIV-1 infection experiments were conducted using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) acutely infected with R5 and X4 HIV-1 or PBMC derived from patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) whose plasma viral load was undetectable. Stimulation of PBMC with O. tsutsugamushi induced production of proinflammatory cytokines and beta-chemokines, and markedly down-regulated expression of CCR5. Although pretreatment with O. tsutsugamushi rendered PBMC resistant to R5 HIV-1, it otherwise enhanced HIV-1 replication. Stimulation by O. tsutsugamushi induced HIV-1 replication in PBMC from patients receiving HAART. These findings suggest that scrub typhus does not necessarily suppress HIV-1 infection and does have potential to enhance HIV-1 replication.
Fatal septicemic melioidosis in a young military person possibly co-infected with Leptospira interrogans and Orientia tsutsugamushi.	Concurrent melioidosis, leptospirosis, and scrub typhus after rural activities is rarely reported. A 19-year-old previously healthy man had fever onset after 2 weeks of military training. Pneumonia became evident on the fifth day of fever under intravenous penicillin and oral minocycline therapy. Acute respiratory failure developed the next day with shock and acute renal and liver function deterioration, which resulted in death. Blood cultures on the third and fifth days grew Burkholderia pseudomallei. Serology revealed leptospirosis and scrub typhus. The emergence of melioidosis in Taiwan and this death without antibiotic treatment for melioidosis alert us that B. pseudomallei should be included as a possible pathogen of pneumonia and sepsis, especially after rural activities.
Acute myocardial infarction following scrub typhus infection.	Up to recently, a few cases of myocarditis in the cardiac manifestations of scrub typhus have been reported. However, acute myocardial infarction (AMI) associated with scrub typhus has not been previously reported. We presented a case of AMI ensued on scrub typhus, which were successfully treated by percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
Successful treatment of pulmonary hemorrhage associated with leptospirosis and scrub typhus coinfection by early plasma exchange.	Leptospirosis and scrub typhus coinfections have been reported in up to 41% of agricultural workers with acute leptospirosis in Thailand, but only sporadically in Taiwan. Because of the nonspecific clinical presentations, it is difficult to differentiate patients with coinfections from leptospirosis alone. However, failure to identify coinfection may lead to mortality if inappropriate antibiotics are used. We report a 31-year-old man coinfected with leptospirosis and scrub typhus, which manifested as diffuse alveolar hemorrhage and acute renal failure mimicking pulmonary-renal syndrome. The patient was treated by early plasma exchange and a 7-day course of moxifloxacin therapy. Both pulmonary hemorrhage and hypoxemia resolved substantially on the 4th day of hospitalization. He had a complete recovery from the disease after 6 weeks of hospitalization.
Scrub and murine typhus in children with obscure fever in the tropics.	Between October, 1985, and February, 1987, 28 (8.7%) cases of scrub and murine typhus were diagnosed among 320 children with greater than or equal to 1 week history of obscure fever. Scrub typhus is a rural disease and characterized by fever, tachypnea and hepatosplenomegaly. Skin rash was rare and eschar was absent. Four patients had pneumonia and two had meningitis. Murine typhus, more an urban disease, was milder and half the patients presented exclusively because of night fever. Slightly enlarged liver and skin rash were the only significant physical signs. Lacking the classical textbook presentations, both rickettsioses often were missed or diagnosed as enteric fever. Recognition is important because patients with either disease respond well to treatment with chloramphenicol or doxycycline.
Incidence of rickettsial infection in patients with acute fever in provincial Thai army hospitals.	Scrub typhus is common among patients with acute fever in rural areas of Thailand. The authors prospectively recruited patients with acute fever from provincial Thai army hospitals. Dot-ELISA test for scrub typhus was done in hospitals and then compared with standard immunofluorescent assay for diagnosis of scrub typhus. Among 178 patients, scrub typhus was diagnosed by immunofluorescent assay in 10 patients (5.61%). The incidence was high in the northeastern and northern regions. Dot-ELISA gave positive results in 4 of 115 patients, while immunofluorescent assay gave positive results in 6 patients (sensitivity = 66.7%). No false positive results of Dot-ELISA were found among 109 patients (specificity = 100%). All patients gave negative results for murine typhus and Thai tick typhus using immunofluorescent assay. Regarding this present study, Dot-ELISA for scrub typhus has a good sensitivity and specificity and can be used in rural hospitals. This test could be useful for diagnosis of scrub typhus in hospitals where immunofluorescent assay is not available.
Otalgia and eschar in the external auditory canal in scrub typhus complicated by acute respiratory distress syndrome and multiple organ failure.	Scrub typhus, a mite-transmitted zoonosis caused by Orientia tsutsugamushi, is an endemic disease in Taiwan and may be potentially fatal if diagnosis is delayed.
Successful treatment of septic shock and respiratory failure due to leptospirosis and scrub typhus coinfection with penicillin, levofloxacin, and activated protein C.	Leptospirosis and scrub typhus are common zoonoses and coinfection with both diseases has been reported sporadically, particularly in tropical and subtropical areas. A 53-year-old male presented with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure and septic shock due to leptospirosis and scrub typhus coinfection confirmed by serological assessments. Antibiotics, including intravenous penicillin and levofloxacin, were administered and human recombinant activated protein C was added because of a high risk of death due to septic shock with multiple organ failure. The patient's hemodynamics and hypoxemia substantially improved 4 days later and he had a complete recovery from the disease after 10 days of hospitalization. Coinfection of leptospirosis and scrub typhus may easily go unrecognized by physicians in febrile travelers or patients in the region where both diseases are endemic. In severe and critical cases of leptospirosis, scrub typhus, or coinfection with both, the use of APC in addition to appropriate antibiotic treatment and standard critical care might provide a greater chance for survival and a favorable outcome.
A case report of scrub typhus-associated hemophagocytic syndrome and a review of literature.	A 34-year-old woman presented with septic shock, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), and multiorgan dysfunction with a 1-week history of fever, abdominal pain in the right upper quadrant, and dull pain in the right flank. Physical and laboratory data showed cytopenia (thrombocytopenia and anemia), splenomegaly, hyperferritinemia, hypofibrinogenemia, and an elevated level of interleukin-2 receptor (soluble CD25). Bone marrow examinations disclosed hypercellular marrow with increased infiltration of histiocytes with hemophagocytosis. This diagnosis was confirmed by positive Weil-Felix test results (Proteus mirabilis OX-K titer, 1:80), the presence of IgG and IgM antibodies, and positive PCR results for Orientia tsutsugamushi. The patient developed a severe intracranial hemorrhage 3 days after admission and expired due to systemic inflammatory response syndrome with DIC and multiorgan failure on the 13th day of hospitalization. Scrub typhus with hemophagocytic syndrome can be complicated by DIC and multiorgan failure. Patients with scrub typhus usually have an excellent response to treatment; therefore, early diagnosis and prompt administration of antimicrobial therapy may prevent the development of serious complications. 
A case series of possibly recrudescent Orientia tsutsugamushi infection presenting as pneumonia.	Orientia tsutsugamushi remains latent in humans after scrub typhus. Pneumonia occurs as a complication of scrub typhus in the late-phase disease. However, pneumonia may also occur as a presenting manifestation of O. tsutsugamushi infection. We reviewed the cases of 3 patients with atypical pneumonia who presented at our hospital and were later confirmed to have O. tsutsugamushi infection by serology, nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and cell culture. All patients were young adults with no history of scrub typhus, and none claimed to have recently been exposed to areas where scrub typhus is endemic. Two cases occurred in non-outbreak seasons. Furthermore, eschar was not observed. Pneumonia was documented within 4 days after fever onset. The immunoglobulin (Ig) G antibody titers against O. tsutsugamushi were higher than the IgM titers, although the serologic test results were less helpful in the diagnosis. Nested PCR and cell culture of blood specimens confirmed the diagnosis of O. tsutsugamushi infection. These findings suggest that pneumonia can occur as a result of recrudescence of latent O. tsutsugamushi infection. 
