5,7-Dihydroxy-6-methoxyflavone, a benzodiazepine site ligand isolated from Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi, with selective antagonistic properties.	As part of an effort to identify naturally occurring GABA(A) receptor benzodiazepine binding site (BDS) ligands from traditional medicinal herbs, we previously reported that flavonoid derivatives isolated from Scutellaria baicalensis (S. baicalensis) Georgi exhibited significant affinities for the BDS. The present study describes the characterization of 5,7-dihydroxy-6-methoxyflavone (oroxylin A), one of the major components of the herbal extract. Oroxylin A inhibited [3H]flunitrazepam binding to rat cerebral cortical membrane with a IC(50) value of 1.09+/-0.07 microM. A GABA ratio of 1.09+/-0.04 suggests that oroxylin A interacts as an antagonist at the recognition site. In neuropharmacological studies, oral administration of oroxylin A (3.75-60 mg kg(-1)) did not result in significant changes in animal models routinely employed for benzodiazepine (BD) evaluation. However, oroxylin A selectively abolished the anxiolytic, myorelaxant and motor incoordination, but not the sedative and anticonvulsant effects elicited by diazepam, a BDS agonist. These results add oroxylin A to the list of CNS active flavonoids, and as the first naturally occurring member endowed with selective antagonistic actions via the BDS.
Antimutagenic and antiradical properties of flavones from the roots of Scutellaria baicalensis georgi.	The four flavonoids baicalin, baicalein, wogonoside, and wogonin have been isolated from Scutellaria baicalensis (Lamiaceae) root extract as main bioactive components. We evaluated their antimutagenic activity as potential chemopreventive natural substances using the Ames test. Free radical scavenging properties have also been measured with the 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) assay. Both crude extract and isolated flavone glycosides and aglycones have antimutagenic and free radical scavenging properties. The lipophilic flavone baicalein has been confirmed to be the most powerful antimutagen among the compounds tested.
Differential protein expression of the inhibitory effects of a standardized extract from Scutellariae radix in liver cancer cell lines using liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry.	The purpose of this study is to verify the inhibitory effect of a chemically standardized extract from Scutellariae radix in liver cancer cell lines (HepG2). The botanical extract was prepared using pressurized liquid extraction (PLE). A method using proteolytic digest with single dimensional and two-dimensional liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry was used to characterize differential protein expression in mammalian cells in response to the botanical extract. The whole cell lysates were digested with trypsin, and the peptides were separated by one-dimensional (reversed phase) or by two-dimensional (cation exchange and reversed phase) solid-phase extraction (SPE) cleanup and separated by liquid chromatography with UV detection and mass spectrometry. In the presence of the botanical extracts, drug-induced apoptosis was not observed, and a number of proteins that played an important role in the metabolic pathways in HepG2 cell line had been affected. The data, as presented, suggest that the inhibitory effects of the standardized extracts from Scutellariae radix resulted from expression of heat shock protein and other proteins related to energy metabolism. The proposed platform had the potential to provide significant information about the particular proteome such as human hepatoma HepG2. At the molecular level, it was possible to study the proteins and how their levels and modifications change in response to the effects of the botanical extract.
Difference of growth-inhibitory effect of Scutellaria baicalensis-producing flavonoid wogonin among human cancer cells and normal diploid cell.	Methanol extract from cultured Scutellaria baicalensis cells inhibited the proliferation of human monocytic leukemia cell line THP-1 and human osteogenic sarcoma cell line HOS. The inhibitory effects of baicalin, baicalein and wogonin, the three major flavonoids contained in the extract, were studied. It should be noted that wogonin did not show the inhibitory effect on human fetal lung normal diploid cell line TIG-1, as compared to the inhibition observed in cancer cells. Physiological analyses in THP-1 cells showed that wogonin induced cell cycle arrest at G(2)/M phase and apoptosis. This is the first report discovering a cancer-specific apoptosis-inducing activity of wogonin.
Qualitative and quantitative determination of the main components of huanglianjiedu decoction by HPLC-UV/MS]	To establish a comprehensive HPLC analytical method of Huanglianjiedu decoction.
Quantitative analysis and chromatographic fingerprinting for the quality evaluation of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi using capillary electrophoresis.	Quantitative analysis and chromatographic fingerprinting for the quality evaluation of a Chinese herb Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi using capillary electrophoresis (CE) technique was developed. The separation was performed with a 50.0cm (42.0cm to the detector window)x75mum i.d. fused-silica capillary, and the CE fingerprint condition was optimized using the combination of central composite design and multivariate analysis. The optimized buffer system containing 15mM borate, 40mM phosphate, 15mM SDS, 15% (v/v) acetonitrile and 7.5% (v/v) 2-propanol was employed for the method development, and the baseline separation was achieved within 15min. The determination of the major active components (Baicalin, Baicalein and Wogonin) was carried out using the optimized CE condition. Good linear relationships were provided over the investigated concentration ranges (the values of R(2): 0.9997 for Baicalin, 0.9992 for Baicalein, and 0.9983 for Wogonin, respectively). The average recoveries of these target components ranged between 96.1-105.6%, 98.6-105.2%, and 96.3-105.0%, respectively. CE fingerprints combined with the quantitative analysis can be used for the quality evaluation of S. baicalensis.
Comparative pharmacokinetics of baicalin after oral administration of pure baicalin, Radix scutellariae extract and Huang-Lian-Jie-Du-Tang to rats.	Huang-Lian-Jie-Du-Tang (HLJDT) is an important "heat-clearing" multiherb remedy of traditional Chinese medicine, and Radix scutellariae (Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi, Labiatae) is a key ingredient herb in it. Baicalin and wogonoside are two main effective ingredients enriched in Radix scutellariae. In the present study, pharmacokinetic differences of baicalin following oral administration of pure baicalin, Radix scutellariae extract, baicalin co-administrated with extract of the other three herbs of HLJDT and HLJDT were investigated in male S.D. rats with approximately the same dose of 200 mg/kg baicalin. The pharmacokinetic comparison of wogonoside was conducted only in Radix scutellariae extract and HLJDT. Plasma concentrations of baicalin and wogonoside were determined using HPLC method. Unpaired Student's t-test was used for statistical comparison. The results indicated that baicalin and wogonoside demonstrated bimodal phenomenon in the plasma profile. Some ingredients in the other three herbs of HLJDT, not in Radix scutellariae itself, had pharmacokinetic interaction with baicalin and wogonoside and hence decreased their systematic exposure level (p<0.01). The absorption site of baicalin was preliminary evaluated in rat using in situ absorption in stomach and different intestinal segments and results revealed the existence of double-site absorption of baicalin. The first absorption site was in upper intestinal, probably via directly absorption of baicalin; while the second absorption site was in colon in the form of aglygon.
Pharmacokinetics of baicalein, baicalin and wogonin after oral administration of a standardized extract of Scutellaria baicalensis, PF-2405 in rats.	The pharmacokinetics of active components such as baicalein, wogonin and oroxylin A were evaluated after oral administration of a purified extract of Scutellaria baicalensis GEORGI (PF-2405) containing the high contents of baicalein, wogonin and oroxylin A to rats. Following oral administration of PF-2405 at 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg dose (equivalent to 4.5, 9.0 and 18 mg/kg baicalein), a major constituent baicalein and its active metabolite baicalin showed dose-linear pharmacokinetics as evidenced by unaltered dose-normalized AUC, dose-normalized Cmax, Ae(0-30h) and GI(30h) values. Following oral administration of PF-2405 at three doses (equivalent to 0.4, 0.8 and 1.6 mg/kg wogonin), dose-normalized Cmax and dose-normalized AUC were comparable between the 20 and 40 mg/kg PF2405 doses, but plasma concentrations of wogonin at 10 mg/kg of PF-2405 were not measurable as they were below limit of quantitation (LOQ; 18 pmol/mL). Following oral administration of PF-2405 at the three doses (equivalent to 1.5, 3.0 and 6.0 mg/kg oroxylin A), the concentrations of oroxylin A in plasma, urine and gastrointestine samples were below the assay LOQ (18 pmol/mL). Significant differences in AUCs, Ae(0-30h) and GI(30h) values for baicalein and baicalin were observed after oral administration of pure baicalein (18 mg/kg) and PF-2405 (40 mg/kg). The increases in AUCs of baicalein and baicalin after oral administration of PF-2405 may have been due to the significant decrease in GO(30h) values for baicalein.
An anti-sepsis monomer, 2',5,6',7-tetrahydroxyflavanonol (THF), identified from Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi neutralizes lipopolysaccharide in vitro and in vivo.	Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is a known trigger in the pathogenesis of sepsis, lipid A being the toxic component. One of several adjuvant therapeutic approaches for severe sepsis is currently focusing on the neutralization of LPS. In order to obtain the components from traditional Chinese herbs that can neutralize the endotoxin, aqueous extractions of twelve herbs were tested using affinity biosensor technology. From twelve herbs, Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi (Huang Qin) found to possess high lipid A-binding abilities, and was selected in subsequent experiments. After subjected to macroporous adsorptive resins and HPLC, we obtained 2',5,6',7-tetrahydroxyflavanonol (THF) from S. baicalensis Georgi under the direction of neutralization of LPS and reducing proinflammatory cytokines. In vitro, THF directly bound to LPS and neutralized its activity. THF not only down-regulated TNF-alpha mRNA expression but also decreased TNF-alpha and IL-6 release from RAW264.7 cells induced by LPS in a dose-dependent manner. THF-mediated inhibition on proinflammatory cytokine release is probably associated with downregulation of LPS-induced TLR4 mRNA augmentation. In vivo, THF could significantly protect mice against a lethal challenge with heat-killed E. coli 35218 (E. coli 35218) in a dose-dependent manner, and decreased the plasma LPS level in endotoxemia mice. These findings provide compelling evidence that THF may be an important potential drug for sepsis treatment. Considering the inhibitory effects of THF on LPS-induced cytokine release are unlikely due to its nonspecific cellular toxicity, THF should be considered as a safe putative candidate for development as a drug for sepsis treatment.
Optimization of capillary liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection for determining femtogram levels of baicalin and baicalein on the basis of the FUMI theory.	Capillary liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (CLC-ECD) was developed for determining the femtogram levels of baicalin and baicalein. The CLC-ECD system and the experimental conditions were optimized based on the precision (=information content) phi and efficiency (=information content/time) theta, which were calculated from a relative standard deviation (R.S.D.) by a chemometric tool called the FUMI theory. When CLC-ECD was established using a capillary column (Inertsil ODS-3, 150 mm x 0.2 mm i.d.), a sample injector fitted with a 0.2 microL injection loop, an applied potential of +650 mV vs. Ag/AgCl, and a flow rate at 1.8 microL/min, baicalin and baicalein were determined at femtogram levels. Moreover, the present method was validated using a chemometric tool and a conventional method. Since the FUMI theory makes it possible to predict R.S.D. without repetitive measurements, the chemometric tool saves considerable amounts of chemicals and experimental time, and was found to be useful for the optimization of conditions and validation for determination by CLC-ECD. The present method was applied to the analysis of Japanese Pharmacopoeia Scutellaria Root and Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi for determining baicalin and baicalein.
Comparative study on chemcial composition between cultivated and wild Scutellariae radix]	To do some comparative study on chemical composition between the cultivated and wild samples of Radix Scutellariae.
Effects of Angelicae tenuissima radix, Angelicae dahuricae radix and Scutellariae radix extracts on cytochrome P450 activities in healthy volunteers.	Three kinds of herbal medicines, commonly used in Korea, Angelicae tenuissima radix, Angelicae dahuricae radix and Scutellariae radix were studied to evaluate their effect on cytochrome P450 (CYP) activities in healthy volunteers. A total of 24 healthy male volunteers were assigned to one of three parallel herbal treatment groups, each consisting of eight volunteers. A cocktail of probe drugs for CYP enzymes was orally administered before and after multiple administrations of herbal medicines, three times a day for 13 days. Probe drugs used to measure CYP activities were caffeine (CYP1A2), losartan (CYP2C9), omeprazole (CYP2C19), dextromethorphan (CYP2D6), chlorzoxazone (CYP2E1) and midazolam (CYP3A4). The probe drugs and their metabolites were quantified in plasma or urine using HPLC or LC-MS/MS. Changes in each CYP activity was evaluated by metabolic ratio of the probe drug (concentration ratio of metabolite to parent form at reference time point) following the herbal medication period, compared to the baseline values. A. dahuricae radix significantly decreased CYP1A2 activity to 10% of baseline activity (95% CI: 0.05-0.21). S. radix also showed significant changes in CYP2C9 and CYP2E1 activities. Compared to baseline values, the metabolic activities of losartan were decreased to 71% (0.54-0.94). In addition, S. radix showed a 1.42-fold (1.03-1.97) increase in chlorzoxazone metabolic activity. However, CYP activities were not meaningfully influenced by A. tenuissima radix. Changes in certain CYP activities were observed after the administration of S. radix and A. dahuricae radix in healthy volunteers. Therefore, herbal medicines containing S. radix or A. dahuricae radix are candidates for further evaluation of clinically significant CYP-mediated herb-drug interactions in human beings.
Effects of Honeysuckle flower and Scutellaria Baicalensis Georgi on constraction and electric activity of rabbit small intestine smooth muscle]	To investigate the effect of Honeysuckle flower (HF) and Scutellaria Baicalensis Georgi (SBG) on contraction and electric activity of small intestine smooth muscle in rabbit and the underlying mechanisms.
Flavone-catalyzed apoptosis in Scutellaria baicalensis.	In response to mechanical damage, roots of Scutellaria baicalensis undergo cell death within 24h. The flavone baicalein was identified as the factor regulating apoptosis in the damaged roots of S. baicalensis. Plant apoptosis is known to be triggered by oxidative damage of DNA through oxidative bursts, whereas baicalein causes apoptosis in Scutellaria cells by a copper-dependent oxidation of nuclear DNA without inducing an oxidative burst. S. baicalensis possesses an interesting system for quickly producing this apoptosis-inducing flavone in its cells. Intact Scutellaria cells contain little baicalein but store a large amount of baicalin (baicalein 7-O-β-D-glucuronide). Stress treatment of Scutellaria cells immediately initiates hydrolysis of baicalin by endogenous β-glucuronidase, and the resulting baicalein is immediately translocated to the nucleus, leading to apoptosis. Thus, S. baicalensis possesses a unique apoptosis-inducing system that is linked with metabolism of baicalin.
Baicalein, an active component of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi, improves cardiac contractile function in endotoxaemic rats via induction of heme oxygenase-1 and suppression of inflammatory responses.	To evaluate the protective effect of baicalein on myocardial dysfunction caused by endotoxaemia in rats and to explore the possible mechanisms.
Effects of S/B remedy containing Scutellaria baicalensis and Bupleurum scorzonerifolfium on hepatic interleukin-6 related signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 activation in mice through cell-cell interaction.	Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) plays an important role in regulating interleukin 6 (IL-6) related growth control of the liver. Our previous study demonstrated that a mixture containing Scutellaria baicalensis and Bupleurum scorzonerifolfium (S/B remedy) modulated the growth of hepatocytes during liver regeneration after 2/3 partial hepatectomy. The aim of this study was to investigate whether S/B remedy induced mouse hepatic STAT3 activation directly in hepatocytes or indirectly via non-parenchymal cell-hepatocyte interaction. Direct S/B remedy effects were studied using primarily isolated hepatocytes; while C57BL/6J mice were used to study indirect effects of S/B remedy using gadolinium chloride to deplete Kupffer cells' function. The results showed that S/B remedy and its active constituents did not directly activate growth-related signaling in primarily isolated hepatocytes. However, S/B remedy induced STAT3 and subsequently suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS3) activation in mouse liver and increased serum IL-6 level in a dose-dependent manner, which could be partially blocked by pretreatment with gadolinium chloride. Oligonucloetide microarray analysis from S/B remedy-treated peripheral blood leukocytes demonstrated an up-regulation of IL-6 gene expression. We conclude that S/B remedy did not directly induce STAT3 activation in vitro, but induced hepatic IL-6 related STAT3 activation through non-parenchymal cell-hepatocyte interaction in vivo. The results provide important information on the molecular mechanisms of S/B remedy for treatment of human liver diseases.
Wogonin and related natural flavones are inhibitors of CDK9 that induce apoptosis in cancer cells by transcriptional suppression of Mcl-1.	The wogonin-containing herb Scutellaria baicalensis has successfully been used for curing various diseases in traditional Chinese medicine. Wogonin has been shown to induce apoptosis in different cancer cells and to suppress growth of human cancer xenografts in vivo. However, its direct targets remain unknown. In this study, we demonstrate for the first time that wogonin and structurally related natural flavones, for example, apigenin, chrysin and luteolin, are inhibitors of cyclin-dependent kinase 9 (CDK9) and block phosphorylation of the carboxy-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II at Ser(2). This effect leads to reduced RNA synthesis and subsequently rapid downregulation of the short-lived anti-apoptotic protein myeloid cell leukemia 1 (Mcl-1) resulting in apoptosis induction in cancer cells. We show that genetic inhibition of Mcl-1 or CDK9 expression by siRNA is sufficient to mimic flavone-induced apoptosis. Pull-down and in silico docking studies demonstrate that wogonin directly binds to CDK9, presumably to the ATP-binding pocket. In contrast, wogonin does not inhibit CDK2, CDK4 and CDK6 at doses that inhibit CDK9 activity. Furthermore, we show that wogonin preferentially inhibits CDK9 in malignant compared with normal lymphocytes. Thus, our study reveals a new mechanism of anti-cancer action of natural flavones and supports CDK9 as a therapeutic target in oncology.
FTIR analysis of the effects of enhanced ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation on chemical composition of different parts of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi]	The effects of enhanced ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation on chemical compositions of radix, stem and leaf of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi were studied via FTIR Results showed that alcohols and phenolic substances in the radix and leaf of S. baicalensis Georgi were increased by UV-B radiation as well as the content of flavonoids and flavonoids glycosides. The terpenoids content in radix and protein content in leaf were increased by supplementary UV-B radiation. Contrary to the circumstance in radix and leaf, contents of alcohols and phenolic, flavonoids, unsaturated fat and lactone in stem were decreased by UV-B radiation. These results indicated that there is a trade-off in distribution of the metabolites in radix, stem and leaf of different parts. More information could be revealed for the result of FTIR spectral analysis via FTIR second derivative spectrum, especially the information of the combination between flavonoids and glycosides. The effects of UV-B radiation on chemical composition in radix, stem and leaf of S. baicalensis Georgi could be examined simply and rapidly via the method of FTIR. Thus, it can be used as a prior method before the further analysis of chemical composition.
Development of a combined technique using a rapid one-step immunochromatographic assay and indirect competitive ELISA for the rapid detection of baicalin.	A colloidal gold conjugated anti-baicalin monoclonal antibody (anti-BA MAb) was prepared and used in an immunochromatographic assay (ICA) for BA in Scutellariae Radix and Kampo medicines. This competitive ICA uses an anti-BA MAb which shows a high specificity for BA and baicalein. Its advantages include a short assay time (15 min), no dependence on any instrumental systems, and it can detect BA in plant materials and Kampo medicines. The limit of detection for the ICA was found to be around 0.6 μg mL(-1)of baicalin. Moreover, the usefulness of the combination of indirect competitive ELISA and the ICA using anti-BA MAb as a quality control method was confirmed for analysis of BA in Scutellariae Radix and Kampo medicines with a sufficient sensitivity (200 ng mL(-1) to 2 μg mL(-1)), obtainable in an easy and timely manner.
In vitro effects of aqueous extracts of Astragalus membranaceus and Scutellaria baicalensis GEORGI on Toxoplasma gondii.	Toxoplasma gondii is a parasite that infects animals and humans worldwide. The standard treatment for toxoplasmosis is limiting due to toxic adverse effects, thus there is a need to identify new drugs that are less toxic. Both Astragalus membranaceus and Scutellaria baicalensis GEORGI are popular traditional Chinese herbs widely used for the treatment of various inflammatory diseases in Asia, and we have previously demonstrated that water extracts of A. membranaceus (AmE) and S. baicalensis GEORGI (SbE) have good efficacy in controlling T. gondii replication in mouse models. This study was designed to further evaluate their effects against developing tachyzoites of the RH strain of T. gondii in HeLa cell cultures. AmE, SbE, and TMP-SMX (trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole) were added into the wells containing both HeLa cells and replicating T. gondii of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing RH tachyzoites. The proliferation and morphous of the tachyzoites were observed, the fluorescence intensity expressed as the fluorescence gray scale value was measured, and the living tachyzoites were counted at different culture times after treatment. The results showed that, compared to untreated controls, parasites treated with either AmE or SbE had significantly decreased intracellular replication at 72, 96, and 120 h after treatment (P < 0.01); while compared to either AmE- or SbE-treated groups, SMX-treated groups had even significantly decreased replication (only a few living parasites were detected) at the above times (P < 0.01). Our data demonstrated that both AmE and SbE had remarkable in vitro activities against T. gondii.
A medicinal plant extract of Scutellaria Baicalensis and Acacia catechu reduced LPS-stimulated gene expression in immune cells: a comprehensive genomic study using QPCR, ELISA, and microarray.	A standardized, combined flavonoid extracts of Scutellaria baicalensis and Acacia catechu, UP446, demonstrates favorable anti-inflammatory properties. In this study, DNA microarray, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR), and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were used to study the effect of UP446 on the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced pro-inflammatory gene regulation of both animal and human immortalized cell lines and also primary human cells. One consistent result from microarray was that the gene expression levels stimulated or suppressed by LPS were returned to normal levels by the UP446 co-treatment. This normalization effect from UP446 was also shown for pro-inflammatory genes cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, tissue necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6 using QPCR, and TNF-α using ELISA. The controlling transcriptional factor of these genes, NFκB, was also down-regulated by UP446 in the LPS-induced cell models. Microarray analysis for numerous genes, including cytokines, chemokines, receptors, transcriptional factors, caspase, growth factors, and phosphatases, suggests not only a genomic anti-inflammatory activity for UP446 but also signaling pathways of cell proliferation, cell death, and lipid metabolism demonstrated on different types of cells.
Scutellaria baicalensis alleviates cantharidin-induced rat hemorrhagic cystitis through inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 overexpression.	Cantharidin, an active component in mylabris, is used in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) to treat scabies and hepatoma, but accompanied by hemorrhagic cystitis. Evidence shows that cantharidin induces human bladder carcinoma cell death through COX-2 overexpression in vitro. In TCM, Scutellaria baicalensis is usually used to cure mylabris-induced hematuria. This work was undertaken to determine the mechanisms of cantharidin-induced rat hemorrhagic cystitis and explore the uroprotective effect of S. baicalensis. In vitro results showed cantharidin could induce cytotoxicity through prostaglandin (PG)E₂ overproduction of T24 cells. Boiling-water extract of S. baicalensis (SB-WE) could significantly inhibit PGE₂ production and COX-2 expression in lipo-polysaccharide-induced RAW 264.7 cells, indicating obvious anti-inflammatory abilities. In vivo results indicated that cantharidin caused rat hemorrhagic cystitis with hematuria via c-Fos and COX-2 overexpression. SB-WE was given orally to cantharidin-treated rats, whereby hematuria level, elevated PGE₂ and COX-2 protein overexpression were significantly and dose-dependently inhibited by SB-WE. The anti-inflammatory components of SB-WE are baicalin and wogonin, whose contents were 200.95 ± 2.00 and 31.93 ± 0.26 μg/mg, respectively. In conclusion, cantharidin induces rat cystitis through c-Fos and COX-2 over-expression and S. baicalensis can prevent the resulting hematuria because of its anti-inflammatory effects.
Preparation of flavonoid reference standards from Scutellariae Radix under the guidance of high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis]	Flavonoid reference standards were targeted-prepared from Scutellariae Radix under the guidance of high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS) analysis. With HPLC-MS analysis of Scutellariae Radix, 19 flavonoid components were identified by analyzing and comparing their retention times, ultraviolet spectra, and mass spectrometry data with literature. The separation and purification protocols of all targeted flavonoid reference standards were optimally designed according to the results of HPLC-MS analysis and related literature. The ethanol extract of Scutellariae Radix was suspended in water and extracted with petroleum ether, ethyl acetate, and n-butanol successively. The ethyl acetate extract and n-butanol extract were separately subjected to primary separation by low pressure reverse phase preparative chromatography. Then the fractions containing targeted compounds were further purified by low pressure reverse and normal phases preparative chromatography. Finally, baicalin and wogonoside reference standards were obtained from n-butanol extract; baicaelin, wogonin, and oroxylin A reference standards were obtained from ethyl acetate extract. The structures of the 5 reference standards were identified by mass spectrometry (MS) and 1H nuclear magnetic resonance (1H NMR) spectroscopy. The HPLC analytical results showed that the purities of the 5 reference standards were all above 98%. It is demonstrated that the rapid targeted-preparation method under the guidance of the HPLC-MS analysis is applicable for the isolation and preparation of chemical components in traditional Chinese medicines.
Drug delivery systems of baicalin, baicalin-phospholipid complex and self-microemulsifying drug across Caco-2 cell model]	To study the absorption of baicalin (BA), baicalin-phospholipid complex (BA-PC), and two kinds of self-microemulsifying drug delivery system (SMEDDS) of BA-PC (BA-PC-NE-SMEDDS with natural emulsifier and BA-PC-NS-SMEDDS with nonionic surfactants) and predict the ability of improving bioavailability through changing the formulation of BA.
Construction on the chitosan microparticles of baicalin and comparison of transdermal diffusion in vitro of baicalin in chitosan microparticles and cream]	To construct baicalin chitosan microparticles and compare the in vitro transdermal diffusion of baicalin in microparticles and cream.
Study on stability and cutaneous permeation kinetics in vitro of positive-ionized liposome gel containing paeonol]	To prepare positive-ionized liposome gel containing paeonol and study its stability and cutaneous permeation kinetics in vitro.
Characterization of processing batch for preparation of radix scutellariae based on dependent component analysis and infrared spectrometry]	Dependent component analysis (DCA) was applied to directly estimate source spectral profiles from IR spectra of synthetic mixtures and characterize processing batch for preparation of radix scutellariae. The results show that DCA can estimate information of dependent components (DCs) from the measured infrared spectral (IR) signal obtained during the processing batch for preparation of radix scutellariae, and the estimated information of DCs is corresponding to the IR features of the active components of scutelliare; by inspection of the change trends of the estimated DCs, the endpoint of the processing batch was determined as 55 min. The proposed approach provides a novel way for process analysis and endpoint determination of procedure for preparation of scutellariae.
Screening of protein kinase inhibitors in natural extracts by capillary electrophoresis combined with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	We report a capillary electrophoresis method in conjunction with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) for screening of protein kinase inhibitors (PKIs) in natural extracts. Protein kinase A (PKA), substrate 5-carboxyfluorescein-labeled kemptide (CLK) and inhibitor H-89 were employed for the method development and validation. Enzymatic inhibition assay was performed with electrophoretically mediated microanalysis technique. Once the bioactivity of a natural extract was confirmed, an assay-guided isolation and structure elucidation using LC-MS/MS were accomplished to identify the compounds which are responsible for the observed bioactivity. Totally 33 natural extracts were screened with the method, and baicalin in the extract of Radix Scutellariae was identified to be a new PKI of PKA. This result demonstrated the practical applicability of our method in screening of PKIs from natural products. 
Study on simplification of extraction kinetics model and adaptability of total flavonoids model of Scutellariae radix]	Because of irregular shapes of Chinese herbal pieces, we simplified the previously deduced general extraction kinetic model for TCMs, and integrated particle diameters of Chinese herbs that had been hard to be determined in the final parameter "a". The reduction of the direct determination of particle diameters of Chinese herbs was conducive to increase the accuracy of the model, expand the application scope of the model, and get closer to the actual production conditions. Finally, a simplified model was established, with its corresponding experimental methods and data processing methods determined. With total flavonoids in Scutellariae Radix as the determination index, we conducted a study on the adaptability of total flavonoids extracted from Scutellariae Radix with the water decoction method in the model. The results showed a good linear correlation among the natural logarithm value of the mass concentration of total flavonoids in Scutellariae Radix, the time and the changes in the natural logarithm of solvent multiple. Through calculating and fitting, efforts were made to establish the kinetic model of extracting total flavonoids from Scutellariae Radix with the water decoction method, and verify the model, with a good degree of fitting and deviation within the range of the industrial production requirements. This indicated that the model established by the method has a good adaptability.
