Phospholipid binding properties and functional characterization of a sea urchin phospholipase Cdelta in urchin and mouse eggs.	We recently identified a novel phospholipase Cdelta isoform, PLC-deltasu, in sea urchin gametes, whose precise functional role during fertilization and early embryogenesis remains unknown. Here, we characterized the binding of the PLC-deltasu PH domain to different phosphatidylinositol (PI) phospholipids and studied changes in its localization during fertilization. The PLC-deltasu PH domain bound most strongly to PI(3,4)P(2) and PI(3,5)P(2) phospholipids, in contrast to the PLCdelta1 PH domain which bound predominantly to PI(4,5)P(2). A green fluorescent protein tagged PLC-deltasu PH domain localized to the plasma membrane and its localization increased at fertilization and following addition of a Ca(2+) ionophore. However, recombinant PLC-deltasu failed to cause Ca(2+) signals like those seen at fertilization, in mouse and sea urchin eggs. Our findings suggest that PLC-deltasu is unlikely to be directly involved in the process of egg activation but may play a role in mediating extracellular signals transmitted via the PI 3'-kinase pathway.
Detection of nuclear lamin B epitopes in oocyte nuclei from mice, sea urchins, and clams using a human autoimmune serum.	Somatic nuclei typically contain two or three major proteins, the lamins A, B, and C or their antigenically related equivalents, interspersed between the chromatin and its attachment site, the inner nuclear membrane. The late oocyte nuclear envelopes of the previously investigated Xenopus and Spisula germinal vesicles, however, have no chromatin attached and only one lamin-like protein. Since mouse and sea urchin germinal vesicles have chromatin attached, we tested them for the possible presence of more than one lamin. In both species we found two different lamins incorporated in their nuclear envelope structure. One lamin is recognized by anti-lamin B and the other by anti-lamin AC antibodies. Spisula germinal vesicles were found to contain not only the nuclear envelope-bound lamin (clamin), but also a 65-kDa protein cross-reactive with anti-lamin B antibodies. This protein is present unattached to any structure and is apparently soluble. Our findings provide a possible explanation of the early presence of lamin B in pronuclei of mouse and sea urchin contrary to the late appearance of a lamin B equivalent in amphibian embryos. In Spisula, as in Xenopus, the presence of a lamin B equivalent could not be documented in the nuclear envelopes of early embryos, indicating that a separate lamin B equivalent is not essential for chromatin binding to the envelope in these species during early embryogenesis. The results also indicate that the nuclear complement of structural proteins might vary substantially in the same cell type of different species.
Do ribosomes regulate mitochondrial RNA synthesis?	The levels of different classes of mitochondrially encoded transcripts are developmentally regulated in sea urchin embryos, as a result of selection between mutually exclusive synthetic pathways. I propose a simple model to explain these observations, based on a dual role for mitochondrial ribosomes and translation factors in RNA synthesis as well as in translation. This effect may be exerted either at the transcriptional or post-transcriptional level (or both), and is potentially generalizable to mammalian mtDNA and to other systems.
Recovery of acetylcholinesterase activity after irreversible inhibition by organophosphorous compounds in embryonic development.	1. Recovery of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was studied using the embryos of sea urchins Strongylocentrotus intermedius and S. nudus, embryos of axolotl Ambystoma mexicanum and in the chick embryo muscle culture treated by "irreversible" organophosphorous inhibitors (OPI). 2. AChE activity was assayed by a modified Ellman's procedure. 3. It follows from the data obtained that, unlike the plutei of sea urchins and the monolayer culture of chick embryo muscle cells, the embryos of axolotl show a compensatory increase in AChE biosynthesis after inhibition by OPI. 4. This mechanism is assumed to be related to the presence of a well developed neuromuscular system in the A. mexicanum embryos. 5. It is possible that acetylcholine accumulated as a result of partial AChE inhibition is responsible for the compensatory increase in AChE biosynthesis.
Mitochondrial DNA replication in sea urchin oocytes.	Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) replicative intermediates from Strongylocentrotus purpuratus oocytes were isolated by ethidium bromide-CsCl density gradient centrifugation and examined by electron microscopy after formamide spreading. In some experiments, the mtDNA was radioactively labeled by exposing isolated oocytes to [(3)H]thymidine. Oocyte mtDNA replication appears to follow the displacement loop model outlined in mouse L cells. There are differences in detail. The frequency of D-loop DNA is much lower in oocytes, suggesting that the relative holding time at the D-loop stage is shorter. Duplex synthesis on the displaced strand occurs early and with multiple initiations. The frequency of totally duplex replicative forms, or Cairns' forms, is the highest reported for mtDNA. The differences may be related to the fact that oocyte mtDNA replication occurs in the absence of cell division and need not be coordinated with a cell cycle. Molecules with expanded D loops banded in the intermediate region between the lower and upper bands in an ethidium bromide-CsCl gradient, supporting the notion that displacement replication proceeds on a closed circular template which is subject to nicking-closing cycles. In mature sea urchin eggs, replicative forms are absent and virtually all the mtDNA is stored as clean circular duplexes. Some novel structural variants of superhelical circular DNA (molecules with denaturation loops and double branch-migrated replicative forms) are reported.
Detection of compounds immunologically related to arachidonic acid transformation products in extracts of invertebrates.	Organic extracts of Terpios zeteki, a sponge from the phylum Porifera, Aplysia californica and Helix aspersa, two species from the phylum Mollusca, and Arbacia, the sea urchin, from the phylum Echinodermata, contained compounds that appeared by radioimmunoassays to be HETE, PGE2, PGF2 alpha, and 6-keto-PGF1 alpha, the non-enzymatic hydrolytic product of PGI2. However, lack of coincidence of their retention times on HPLC with authentic oxygenation products of arachidonic acid suggested that most of the immunologically active compounds were derivatives of arachidonic acid metabolites or products derived from polyunsaturated fatty acids other than arachidonic acid.
Evidence for the homology of hexose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase and glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase: comparison of the amino acid compositions.	Amino acid compositions of hexose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase and glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase from crucian carp and rat, and that of sea-urchin glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase were compared in order to ascertain if they are homologous enzymes. The results demonstrated that the overall amino acid compositions of the two enzymes remarkably resemble each other, and that the composition divergence (D = 0.038) of the crucian carp enzymes is in the range of those for homologous proteins so far reported. These findings strongly support our previous prediction that the two enzymes have diverged from a common ancestral molecule.
Redistribution of actin and fascin in sea urchin eggs after fertilization.	Following fertilization, the sea urchin egg cortex undergoes a structural change involving the assembly and organization of actin filaments into microvilli. Antifascin localizes this actin cross-linking protein in the microvilli of the fertilized egg cortex but no organized staining is present in the unfertilized cortex. Determination of the actin content of eggs using the DNAase I inhibition assay indicates that actin is about 1.4% of the total protein. Approximately 90% of this actin is soluble in low calcium isotonic extracts of unfertilized eggs while only 60-65% can be recovered in identical extracts of fertilized eggs. Similar measurements for fascin using a radioimmunoassay indicate this molecule represents about 0.3% of the total egg protein, essentially all of which is recovered in low calcium isotonic extracts of unfertilized eggs. After fertilization only 65-70% of this actin cross-linking protein is in the soluble phase. These results demonstrate a markedly different solubility for actin and fascin after fertilization, when the indirect immunofluorescence staining localizes fascin in the microvilli, and are consistent with the idea that fascin organizes newly polymerized actin filaments into the microvillar cores. A consideration of the amounts of actin and fascin incorporated into the cortex after fertilization and the number of microvilli on the egg surface indicates that the measured values are sufficient to account for the observed microvillar elongation.
Nonrandom distribution of histone mRNAs into polysomes and nonpolysomal ribonucleoprotein particles in sea urchin embryos.	In the early sea urchin embryo, newly synthesized cytoplasmic histone mRNA is found both on polysomes and free of ribosomes as nonpolysomal messenger ribonucleoprotein particles (free RNPs). The distribution of newly synthesized histone mRNAs between translating and nontranslating compartments is nonrandom and dependent on the developmental stage. Gel electrophoresis and autoradiography of polysomal and free RNP RNA from embryos at various stages show that (i) the fraction of total newly synthesized histone mRNA that is in polysomes is greater than the fraction of total newly synthesized poly(A)+mRNA that is in polysomes, at all stages examined, and (ii) among the five histone mRNAs. H1 mRNA and H4 mRNA are relatively more enriched in the free RNPs than are the mRNAs for H2A, H2B, and H3. These data suggest that histone mRNA, as a class, is more efficiently utilized as a template than the average mRNA and, of the cytoplasmic histone mRNAs, the mRNAs for histones H2A, H2B, and possibly H3 are selected more frequently for translation than those for H1 and H4. Cell-free translations of polysomal and free RNP RNAs yield different ratios of in vitro histone products, consistent with the RNA distribution data. To test the possibility that the in vivo distribution of the histone mRNAs is the consequence of different intrinsic initiation capabilities of the individual mRNAs, ribosome-binding assays were carried out and unequal binding abilities of the histone mRNAs in the reticulocyte lysate were shown. A translational level component in the regulation of histone synthesis in the sea urchin embryo is indicated.
Effect of colchicine binding on the reversible dissociation of the tubulin dimer.	The reversible subunit-dissociation equilibria of the tubulin alpha beta dimer and of the colchicine-tubulin dimer complex have been examined by equilibrium ultracentrifugation at 4.6 degrees C. The dissociation constants (KD) of tubulin from bovine brain and from flagellar outer-doublet microtubules of the sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus were 7.4 x 10(-7) M and 15.2 x 10(-7) M, respectively. In contrast, both brain and outer-doublet colchicine-tubulin complexes dissociated less readily into their alpha- and beta-tubulin monomers; KD = 2.7 x 10(-7) M for the brain complex and KD = 5.0 x 10(-7) M for the outer-doublet colchicine-tubulin species. Podophyllotoxin (2 x 10(-4) M), tropolone (10(-4) M), or both podophyllotoxin and tropolone (2 x 10(-4) and 5 x 10(-4) M, respectively) had no effect on the dissociation constant of brain tubulin. Under these experimental conditions, the initial colchicine-binding capacities of brain and flagellar tubulins were 0.87 +/- 0.05 and 0.70 +/- 0.07 mol/mol, respectively. The colchicine-binding activities of free tubulins decayed at 4 degrees C according to first-order kinetics with half-times of 37 h for brain tubulin and 26 h for flagellar tubulin. However, colchicine-tubulin complexes (brain or flagellar) showed no decay of binding activity when stored at 4 degrees C for periods up to 4 days. These results strongly support the following conclusions: (1) colchicine binding induces or stabilizes a conformational isomer of tubulin that dissociates into its alpha and beta monomers less readily than free tubulin; (2) the conformational change in tubulin is specific for binding of the intact colchicine molecule and does not occur when ligands specific for the trimethoxyphenyl subdomain (i.e., podophyllotoxin) or tropolone subdomain of the colchicine-binding site bind singly or simultaneously to tubulin; and (3) bound colchicine stabilizes tubulin against loss of colchicine-binding activity at 4 degrees C. This altered conformation of tubulin may be involved in the substoichiometric poisoning of microtubule assembly produced by the addition of colchicine-tubulin complexes to the ends of microtubules.
A rho-like protein is involved in the organisation of the contractile ring in dividing sand dollar eggs.	Sand dollar eggs were microinjected with botulinum C3 exoenzyme, an ADP-ribosyltransferase from Clostridium botulinum that specifically ADP-ribosylates and inactivates rho proteins. C3 exoenzyme microinjected during nuclear division interfered with subsequent cleavage furrow formation. No actin filaments were detected in the equatorial cortical layer of these eggs by rhodamine-phalloidin staining. When microinjected into furrowing eggs, C3 exoenzyme rapidly disrupted the contractile ring actin filaments and caused regression of the cleavage furrows. C3 exoenzyme had no apparent effect on nuclear division, however, and multinucleated embryos developed from the microinjected eggs. By contrast, C3 exoenzyme did not affect the organisation of cortical actin filaments immediately after fertilisation. Only one protein (molecular weight 22,000) was ADP-ribosylated by C3 exoenzyme in the isolated cleavage furrow. This protein co-migrated with ADP-ribosylated rhoA derived from human platelets when analysed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. These results strongly suggest that a rho-like, small GTP-binding protein is selectively involved in the organisation and maintenance of the contractile ring.
Metal-binding proteins in eggs of various sea urchin species.	Metallothionein presence and amount were determined in the unfertilized eggs of six sea urchin species by silver saturation assay and gel-chromatography of cell extracts. The results showed high levels of metallothionein in the egg cytoplasm of the two Mediterranean species Paracentrotus lividus and Sphaerechinus granularis. No metallothionein was found either in the eggs of Arbacia lixula, or in those of the three Eastern species Strongylocentrotus intermedius, Temnopleurus hardwickii and Clypeaster japonicus. However, the extracts of the latter three species revealed the presence of zinc bound in a macromolecular form, thus suggesting the existence of metal-binding proteins distinct from metallothioneins.
Sites of action of the KCl-soluble protein in the stimulation of protein synthesis in sea urchin systems.	The sites of action of the KCl-soluble protein (KSP) in the stimulation of amino acid incorporation were studied with cell-free systems from sea urchin embryos. The reduced form of KSP stimulated amino acid- and tRNA-dependent AMP exchange in the amino acid activation and initiation steps. Stimulation of the binding of phenylalanyl-tRNA (Phe-tRNA) to 40 S ribosomes by KSP was found; the reaction was considered to be the binding to the donor site of ribosomes, based on the results of puromycin treatment, so this stimulation is assumed to occur at the initiation step. All other steps of amino acid-dependent exchange of PPi and ATP as well as hydroxamate formation, amino acid acceptor activity of tRNA, the binding of aminoacyl-tRNA, mRNA, and synthetic polynucleotide to ribosomes, translocation and peptide bond formation, and the termination and release of peptides from ribosomes, were apparently insensitive to KSP. Cyclic variation was observed in the activities of amino acid- and tRNA-dependent AMP exchange with ATP and the binding of aminoacyl (acylated and nonacylated)t-RNA to ribosomes using 12,000 x g supernatant. The reduced form of KSP itself had AMP exhange activity in amino acid activation. The reaction involved was confirmed to be aminoacyl transfer from aminoacyl-AMP to tRNA. However, low activities were observed for the bindings of Phe-and acetylphenylalanyl (AcPhe)-tRNA to ribosomes. Small molecular SH-reagents reacted in a different way from reduced KSP both in the AMP exchange reaction and the binding of aminoacy1-tRNA to ribosomes.
