A novel mechanism of pore formation: membrane penetration by the N-terminal amphipathic region of equinatoxin.	Equinatoxin II is a representative of actinoporins, eukaryotic pore-forming toxins from sea anemones. It creates pores in natural and artificial lipid membranes by an association of three or four monomers. Cysteine-scanning mutagenesis was used to study the structure of the N terminus, which is proposed to be crucial in transmembrane pore formation. We provide data for two steps of pore formation: a lipid-bound monomeric intermediate state and a final oligomeric pore. Results show that residues 10-28 are organized as an alpha-helix in both steps. In the first step, the whole region is transferred to a lipid-water interface, laying flat on the membrane. In the pore-forming state, the hydrophilic side of the amphipathic helix lines the pore lumen. The pore has a restriction around Asp-10, according to the permeabilization ratio of ions flowing through pores formed by chemically modified mutants. A general model was introduced to derive the tilt angle of the helix from the ion current data. This study reveals that actinoporins use a unique single helix insertion mechanism for pore formation.
Structure-function analysis of casein kinase 2 with synthetic peptides and anti-peptide antibodies.	Casein kinase 2 (CK2) is a ubiquitous, multifunctional protein-seryl/threonyl kinase that has been implicated in cellular regulation. Synthetic peptides were patterned after three highly conserved regions in CK2: the N terminus (CK2-NT); the lysine-rich, kinase subdomain III segment (CK2-III) (nomenclature of Hanks et al. (Hanks, S. K., Quinn, A. M., and Hunter, T. (1988) Science 241, 42-52)); and a 10-residue segment located near kinase subdomain X that is shared between CK2 and p34cdc2 (CK2/cdc2). The CK2-III and CK2/cdc2 peptides markedly stimulated the autophosphorylation of the alpha- and alpha'-subunits of purified CK2 from sea star oocytes, and they elicited up to 2-fold increases in its casein or phosvitin phosphotransferase activity. These peptides completely reversed nearly total inhibition of CK2 phosphotransferase activity toward itself, casein, and phosvitin by either heparin or poly(Glu,Tyr; 4:1), whereas CK2-NT was ineffective. Elution of CK2 from heparin-agarose with the CK2-III peptide indicated that this region of CK2 might mediate heparin binding to CK2. Affinity-purified rabbit polyclonal antibodies developed against both CK2-III and CK2/cdc2, but not CK2-NT, also produced up to 1.8-fold enhancements of the casein and phosvitin phosphotransferase activities of purified CK2. All three of the antipeptide antibody preparations immunoreacted with the alpha- and alpha'-subunits of CK2 on Western blots. These studies indicate that kinase subdomains III and X are involved in the modulation of CK2 phosphotransferase activity.
Linear and cyclic peptide analogues of the polypeptide cardiac stimulant, anthopleurin-A. 1H-NMR and biological activity studies.	A loop corresponding to residues 8-17 in the polypeptide cardiac stimulant anthopleurin-A is known to be important for the cardiostimulant activity of this molecule. To investigate the activity and possible conformations of this loop in isolation, two synthetic peptides have been studied. The first corresponds to residues 6-20 of anthopleurin-A with Cys6 replaced by Thr, and the second to residues 6-21 of anthopleurin-A, with Thr21 replaced by Cys. The introduction of an additional cysteine in the latter peptide enabled an intramolecular disulfide to be formed between the N- and C-terminal residues. Both linear peptides and the disulfide-containing analogue lack the cardiostimulant and Na(+-)-channel binding activity in the parent molecule, anthopleurin-A, indicating that although the loop is important for the function of anthopleurin-A, other regions of the molecule must also be involved in activity. Assignments of the 1H-NMR spectra of both peptides are presented, and their pH and temperature dependences investigated. The results show that the amide protons of Gly5 and Asn11 (corresponding to Gly10 and Asn16 in anthopleurin-A) sample hydrogen-bonded conformations in solution. Based on these NMR data, two regions of non-random structure, encompassing residues 2-5 and 8-11, respectively, are proposed, and the possible involvement of such structures in the activity of anthopleurin-A is discussed.
Potassium channel blockade by the sea anemone toxin ShK for the treatment of multiple sclerosis and other autoimmune diseases.	Expression of the two lymphocyte potassium channels, the voltage-gated channel Kv1.3 and the calcium activated channel IKCa1, changes during differentiation of human T cells. While IKCa1 is the functionally dominant channel in naive and "early" memory T cells, Kv1.3 is crucial for the activation of terminally differentiated effector memory (TEM) T cells. Because of the involvement of TEM cells in autoimmune processes, Kv1.3 is regarded as a promising target for the treatment of T-cell mediated autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis and the prevention of chronic transplant rejection. ShK, a 35-residue polypeptide toxin from the sea anemone, Stichodactyla helianthus, blocks Kv1.3 at low picomolar concentrations. ShK adopts a central helix-kink-helix fold, and alanine-scanning and other mutagenesis studies have defined its channel-binding surface. Models have been developed of how this toxin effects K+-channel blockade and how its docking configuration might differ in ShK-Dap22, which contains a single side chain substitution that confers specificity for Kv1.3 blockade. ShK, ShK-Dap22 and the Kv1.3 blocking scorpion toxin kaliotoxin have been shown to prevent and treat experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in rats, a model for multiple sclerosis. A fluoresceinated analog of ShK, ShK-F6CA, has been developed, which allows the detection of activated TEM cells in human and animal blood samples by flow cytometry and the visualization of Kv1.3 channel distribution in living cells. ShK and its analogs are currently undergoing further evaluation as leads in the development of new biopharmaceuticals for the treatment of multiple sclerosis and other T-cell mediated autoimmune disorders.
Primary structure, behavioral and electroencephalographic effects of an epileptogenic peptide from the sea anemone Bunodosoma cangicum.	The primary structure of cangitoxin (CGX), a 4958 Da peptide from the sea anemone Bunodosoma cangicum, was determined: GVACRCDSDGPTVRGNSLSGTLWLTGGCPSGWHNCRGSGPFIGYCCKK. CGX contains all the 11 residues that are conserved and the 5 that are conservatively substituted within or between the type 1 and type 2 sequences of sea anemone peptides with specific action on voltage-sensitive sodium channels. Furthermore, it also has 6 identities (Asp9, Arg14, Asn16, Leu18, Trp33 and Lys48) and 1 homology (Arg36) in the 8 residues of the pharmacophore of the sea anemone ApB which are essential for interaction with mammalian sodium channels. The intrahippocampal injection of CGX induces several sequential behavioral alterations--episodes of akinesia alternating with facial automatisms and head tremor, salivation, rearing, jumping, barrel-rolling, wet dog shakes and forelimb clonic movements--and the electroencephalography analysis shows that they were followed by important seizure periods that gradually evolved to status epilepticus that lasted 8-12 h, similar to that observed in the acute phase of the pilocarpine model of epilepsy. These results suggest that CGX may be an important tool to develop a new experimental model of status epilepticus which may contribute to understanding the etiology of epilepsy and to test the effects of new antiepileptic drugs.
Pharmacological evaluation of early afterdepolarisations induced by sea anemone toxin (ATXII) in dog heart.	ATXII is a polypeptide toxin isolated from the sea anemone, Anemonia sulcata, known to delay sodium inactivation markedly and to induce early afterdepolarisations. The aim was to investigate the mechanism of its action.
Effect of sphingomyelin and cholesterol on the interaction of St II with lipidic interfaces.	Sticholysin II (St II) is a cytolysin produced by the sea anemone Stichodactyla helianthus, characterized by forming oligomeric pores in natural and artificial membranes. In the present work the influence of the membrane lipidic components sphingomyelin (SM) and cholesterol (Cho) on binding and functional activity of St II, was evaluated using ELISA, lipid monolayers and liposomes. The aim of this work was to establish the promoting role of Cho and SM, both in St II binding and pore formation efficiency. In general the association (evaluated by ELISA and incorporation to phospholipid monolayers) of St II to lipids mixtures was better than to any one of the single components. Regarding the unique role of SM, it was found that, albeit inefficiently, St II binds to phosphatidylcholine (PC):Cho monolayers and liposomes, and is able to form active pores in these bilayers. The results in monolayers and liposomes show that the presence of SM and large amounts of Cho leads to the highest values of critical pressure and rate of association to monolayers, the most favorable interaction with liposomes, and the fastest rate of pore formation, in spite of the rigidity of the layers as suggested by the high generalized polarization (GP) of Laurdan incorporated to liposomes and FTIR data. Taken together, the present results show that the joint presence of SM and Cho, both in binary and ternary (PC containing) mixtures provide conditions particularly suitable for St II binding and function. We suggest that microdomains present in the bilayers could be important for toxin-membrane association.
The effect of toxin II isolated from sea anemones (Anemonia sulcata) on the isolated guinea pig ileum]	When the guinea-pig isolated ileum is treated with the Toxin II from Anemonia sulcata, it releases not only acetylcholine but also serotonin. These transmitters are both involved in the spasmogenic action of the toxin.
A crystallographic study of bright far-red fluorescent protein mKate reveals pH-induced cis-trans isomerization of the chromophore.	The far-red fluorescent protein mKate (lambda(ex), 588 nm; lambda(em), 635 nm; chromophore-forming triad Met(63)-Tyr(64)-Gly(65)), originating from wild-type red fluorescent progenitor eqFP578 (sea anemone Entacmaea quadricolor), is monomeric and characterized by the pronounced pH dependence of fluorescence, relatively high brightness, and high photostability. The protein has been crystallized at a pH ranging from 2 to 9 in three space groups, and four structures have been determined by x-ray crystallography at the resolution of 1.75-2.6 A. The pH-dependent fluorescence of mKate has been shown to be due to reversible cis-trans isomerization of the chromophore phenolic ring. In the non-fluorescent state at pH 2.0, the chromophore of mKate is in the trans-isomeric form. The weakly fluorescent state of the protein at pH 4.2 is characterized by a mixture of trans and cis isomers. The chromophore in a highly fluorescent state at pH 7.0/9.0 adopts the cis form. Three key residues, Ser(143), Leu(174), and Arg(197) residing in the vicinity of the chromophore, have been identified as being primarily responsible for the far-red shift in the spectra. A group of residues consisting of Val(93), Arg(122), Glu(155), Arg(157), Asp(159), His(169), Ile(171), Asn(173), Val(192), Tyr(194), and Val(216), are most likely responsible for the observed monomeric state of the protein in solution.
Lunar rhythms in the deep sea: evidence from the reproductive periodicity of several marine invertebrates.	While lunar rhythms are commonly documented in plants and animals living in terrestrial and shallow-water environments, deep-sea organisms have essentially been overlooked in that respect. This report describes evidence of lunar periodicity in the reproduction of 6 deep-sea species belonging to 2 phyla. Occurrences of gamete release in free spawners and larval release in brooders exhibited significant peaks around the new and full moons, respectively. The exact nature of this lunar period (endogenous or exogenous rhythm) and its adaptive significance in the deep sea remain elusive. Current knowledge suggests that proxies of moon phases at depth may include fluxes in particulate matter deposition, cyclic currents, and moonlight for species living in the disphotic zone.
Modulation of neuronal sodium channels by the sea anemone peptide BDS-I.	Blood-depressing substance I (BDS-I), a 43 amino-acid peptide from sea anemone venom, is used as a specific inhibitor of Kv3-family potassium channels. We found that BDS-I acts with even higher potency to modulate specific types of voltage-dependent sodium channels. In rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, 3 μM BDS-I strongly enhanced tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive sodium current but weakly inhibited TTX-resistant sodium current. In rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neurons, which express only TTX-sensitive sodium current, BDS-I enhanced current elicited by small depolarizations and slowed decay of currents at all voltages (EC(50) ∼ 300 nM). BDS-I acted with exceptionally high potency and efficacy on cloned human Nav1.7 channels, slowing inactivation by 6-fold, with an EC(50) of approximately 3 nM. BDS-I also slowed inactivation of sodium currents in N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells (mainly from Nav1.3 channels), with an EC(50) ∼ 600 nM. In hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons (mouse) and cerebellar Purkinje neurons (mouse and rat), BDS-I had only small effects on current decay (slowing inactivation by 20-50%), suggesting relatively weak sensitivity of Nav1.1 and Nav1.6 channels. The biggest effect of BDS-I in central neurons was to enhance resurgent current in Purkinje neurons, an effect reflected in enhancement of sodium current during the repolarization phase of Purkinje neuron action potentials. Overall, these results show that BDS-I acts to modulate sodium channel gating in a manner similar to previously known neurotoxin receptor site 3 anemone toxins but with different isoform sensitivity. Most notably, BDS-I acts with very high potency on human Nav1.7 channels.
Selective purification of recombinant neuroactive peptides using the flagellar type III secretion system.	The structure, assembly, and function of the bacterial flagellum involves about 60 different proteins, many of which are selectively secreted via a specific type III secretion system (T3SS) (J. Frye et al., J. Bacteriol. 188:2233-2243, 2006). The T3SS is reported to secrete proteins at rates of up to 10,000 amino acid residues per second. In this work, we showed that the flagellar T3SS of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium could be manipulated to export recombinant nonflagellar proteins through the flagellum and into the surrounding medium. We translationally fused various neuroactive peptides and proteins from snails, spiders, snakes, sea anemone, and bacteria to the flagellar secretion substrate FlgM. We found that all tested peptides of various sizes were secreted via the bacterial flagellar T3SS. We subsequently purified the recombinant μ-conotoxin SIIIA (rSIIIA) from Conus striatus by affinity chromatography and confirmed that T3SS-derived rSIIIA inhibited mammalian voltage-gated sodium channel Na(V)1.2 comparably to chemically synthesized SIIIA.
Cultured myotubes from skeletal muscle of adult rats. Characterization and action of Anemonia sulcata toxin II.	Mononucleated myogenic cells (satellite cells) were isolated from skeletal muscle of adult rats and grown in culture. These cells replicated and, beginning with the 6th day in culture, they fused and differentiated into multinucleated myotubes, which accumulated creatine kinase and developed cross striation and spontaneous contractions. The differentiation of the excitable membrane and the action of sea anemone toxin ATX II were investigated with microelectrode techniques. Mature myotubes reached a stable membrane potential of -47.3 mV (+/- 6.5 mV) with the 11th day in culture. Action potentials could be generated in all myotubes. During maturation they became faster (increasing rate of rise) and shorter in duration. In spontaneously contracting myotubes spontaneous action potentials were recorded, which were often associated with subthreshold oscillations of membrane potential. ATX II reduced the membrane potential and prolonged the action potential duration with the lowest effective concentrations being 1 nmol/l and 0.5 nmol/l, respectively. Furthermore, ATX II induced electrical activity in quiescent myotubes. After fusion the development of the membrane electrical properties of satellite cell derived muscle cells followed essentially the same pattern as in primary cultures of embryonic myotubes. Electrophysiologically and with respect to their sensitivity to ATX II the mature myotubes resemble denervated muscle fibres.
Functional evolution of Erg potassium channel gating reveals an ancient origin for IKr.	Mammalian Ether-a-go-go related gene (Erg) family voltage-gated K(+) channels possess an unusual gating phenotype that specializes them for a role in delayed repolarization. Mammalian Erg currents rectify during depolarization due to rapid, voltage-dependent inactivation, but rebound during repolarization due to a combination of rapid recovery from inactivation and slow deactivation. This is exemplified by the mammalian Erg1 channel, which is responsible for IKr, a current that repolarizes cardiac action potential plateaus. The Drosophila Erg channel does not inactivate and closes rapidly upon repolarization. The dramatically different properties observed in mammalian and Drosophila Erg homologs bring into question the evolutionary origins of distinct Erg K(+) channel functions. Erg channels are highly conserved in eumetazoans and first evolved in a common ancestor of the placozoans, cnidarians, and bilaterians. To address the ancestral function of Erg channels, we identified and characterized Erg channel paralogs in the sea anemone Nematostella vectensis. N. vectensis Erg1 (NvErg1) is highly conserved with respect to bilaterian homologs and shares the IKr-like gating phenotype with mammalian Erg channels. Thus, the IKr phenotype predates the divergence of cnidarians and bilaterians. NvErg4 and Caenorhabditis elegans Erg (unc-103) share the divergent Drosophila Erg gating phenotype. Phylogenetic and sequence analysis surprisingly indicates that this alternate gating phenotype arose independently in protosomes and cnidarians. Conversion from an ancestral IKr-like gating phenotype to a Drosophila Erg-like phenotype correlates with loss of the cytoplasmic Ether-a-go-go domain. This domain is required for slow deactivation in mammalian Erg1 channels, and thus its loss may partially explain the change in gating phenotype. 
Pharmacological effects of various venoms on cutaneous capillary leakage.	Studies to counteract the cutaneous vasopermeability actions of a wasp (Vespa orientalis), an anemone (Bolocera tuediae) and three jellyfish (Chironex fleckeri, Chrysaora quinquecirrha and Physalia physalis) venoms were conducted by using various pharmacological antagonists. Piripost (a leukotriene inhibitor) reduced vasopermeability if administered 5 min prior to challenge with the jellyfish venoms. Methysergide counteracted the vasopermeability of three of four coelenterate venoms, whereas indomethacin was effective against capillary leakage induced by Chironex venom. These studies indicate that anti-dermonecrotic therapy against various venoms will have to be species-specific.
Binding of sea anemone toxin to receptor sites associated with gating system of sodium channel in synaptic nerve endings in vitro.	Iodination of toxin II from the sea anemone Anemonia sulcata gives a labeled monoiododerivative that retains 80% of the original neurotoxicity. This derivative binds specifically to rat brain synaptosomes at 20 degrees C and pH 7.4 with a second-order rate constant of association ka = 4.6 x 10(4) M-1 sec-1 and a first-order rate constant of dissociation kd = 1.1 x 10(-2) sec-1. The binding occurs on the Na+ channel at a binding site distinct from that of other gating system toxins like batrachotoxin, veratridine, grayanotoxin, aconitine, and pyrethroids. The maximal binding capacity Bmax is 3.2 pmol/mg of protein (i.e., about two sea anemone toxin binding sites per tetrodotoxin binding site) and the Kd is 240 nM for the monoiododerivative and 150 nM for the native toxin. Corresponding binding parameters for the association of a 125I-labeled derivative of toxin II from the scorpion Androctonus australis Hector are Bmax = 0.3 pmol/mg of protein and Kd = 1 nM, whereas the Kd of the unmodified scorpion toxin is 0.6 nM. Competition experiments involving scorpion toxins, sea anemone toxins, and synaptosomes demonstrate that, although the sea anemone toxin is able to displace the scorpion toxin bound to synaptosomes, the scorpion toxin does not displace the sea anemone toxin. The sea anemone toxin but not the scorpion toxin binds to depolarized synaptosomes. Differences between binding properties of the two polypeptide toxins are analyzed in the discussion.
Cardiotonic polypeptides from Anthopleura xanthogrammica (Brandt) and A. elegantissima (Brandt).	While studying certain coelenterates for antitumor activity, crude aqueous-ethanolic extracts were found to be very highly toxic to mice, and they exhibited potent cardiotoxicity to rats. When tested at sublethal concentrations, extracts of the sea anemones Anthopleura xanthogrammica (Brandt) and A. elegantissima (Brandt) showed a powerful positive inotropic effect with no chronotopic effect. Further pharmacological studies indicated that the adrenergic system was not involved in the mechanism of action, Na+,K+-ATPase was not inhibited, and vascular tissue was not affected by the extracts. Two cardiotonic polypeptides were then isolated from A. xanthogrammica and named anthopleurin-A (AP-A) and anthopleurin-B (AP-B). A third cardiotonic polypeptide, anthopleurin-C (AP-C), was isolated from A elegantissima. AP-A and AP-C have been sequenced and AP-B partially sequenced. Studies of carbon-13 nuclear magnetic resonance, circular dichroism, laser-Raman and fluorescence spectroscopy have given some clues as to tertiary structure. Chemical amino acid blocking studies also have provided some information as to which functional groups are required for activity. AP-A has been thoroughly studied pharmacologically, but the exact mechanism of action is still not known.
Three-dimensional structure in solution of neurotoxin III from the sea anemone Anemonia sulcata.	The three-dimensional structure in aqueous solution of the 27-residue polypeptide neurotoxin Anemonia sulcata toxin III (ATX III) has been determined from 1H NMR data. As ATX III self-associates in the millimolar concentration range, causing a marked concentration dependence for the chemical shifts of several residues [Norton, R. S., Cross, K., Braach-Maksvytis, V., & Wachter, E. (1993) Biochem. J. 293, 545-551], it was necessary to record NOESY spectra over a range of concentrations in order to eliminate any intermolecular interactions from the NOE restraint set. The pairings of the six half-cystine residues were also unknown and had to be determined (as 3-17, 4-11, and 6-22) from preliminary structure calculations performed using both upper bound distance restraints from NOESY data and a substantial number of lower bound restraints inferred from the absence of NOESY cross-peaks. Final structures were determined, using the program X-PLOR, from interproton distance restraints inferred from NOEs, backbone and side chain dihedral angle restraints from spin-spin coupling measurements, and a smaller number of lower bound restraints. Stereospecific assignments for 11 beta-methylene pairs were also included. The final set of 28 structures had an average pairwise RMS difference of 1.32 A over the backbone heavy atoms (N, C alpha, and C) and 2.18 A over all heavy atoms. For the well-defined region encompassing residues 3-22, the corresponding values were 0.62 and 1.28 A, respectively. ATX III adopts a compact structure containing four reverse turns (a distorted type I beta-turn at residues 6-9, a type I beta-turn at residues 8-11, and inverse gamma-turns at residues 12-14 and 15-17) and two other chain reversals, but no regular alpha-helix or beta-sheet. Several of the residues most affected by aggregation are located on the surface of the molecule, forming a hydrophobic patch which may constitute part of the sodium channel binding surface. Possible relationships between the structure of ATX III and those of other sea anemone toxins that interact with the same site on the voltage-gated sodium channel are considered.
Persistent sodium currents induced by anthopleurin-A and their relationship to early afterdepolarizations in ventricular myocytes.	Prolonged Na+ current inactivation was induced in neonatal rat ventricular myocytes by exposure to Anthopleurin-A (80-240 nM). In control whole-cell voltage clamp recordings, prolonged Na+ current inactivated mono-exponentially from peak with time constant, tau h, averaging 1.5 msec +/- 0.2 msec at -30 mV and peak current averaging 0.7 +/- 0.3 nA (n = 10). Steady state inactivation was complete at -50 mV and there was little or no overlap of prolonged Na+ current inactivation and activation processes. One to 3 minutes following exposure to Anthopleurin-A, the rate of inactivation slowed, with tau h increasing to 21 +/- 5 msec at -30 mV, and peak prolonged Na+ current increasing to 1.3 +/- 0.5 nA (n = 10). Steady state inactivation was shifted in a positive direction, and complete inactivation did not occur even at +10 mV. Persistent inward currents were thus induced by Anthopleurin-A. They were most prominent at depolarizations slightly above threshold for activation and were selectively blocked by lidocaine (60 microM). Action potentials were prolonged by Anthopleurin-A, especially at slow stimulation rates, and were accompanied by early afterdepolarizations. The correlation between persistent inward currents and early afterdepolarizations, in terms of voltage dependence, appearance and pharmacology, suggests a possible causal role for persistent Na+ currents in this model of early afterdepolarizations.
