Detection of Shiga-toxigenic Escherichia coli (STEC) in fresh seafood and meat marketed in Mangalore, India by PCR.	To study the incidence of Shiga-toxigenic Escherichia coli (STEC) in seafoods from India.
Prevalence of pandemic thermostable direct hemolysin-producing Vibrio parahaemolyticus O3:K6 in seafood and the coastal environment in Japan.	Although thermostable direct hemolysin (TDH)-producing Vibrio parahaemolyticus has caused many infections in Asian countries, the United States, and other countries, it has been difficult to detect the same pathogen in seafoods and other environmental samples. In this study, we detected and enumerated tdh gene-positive V. parahaemolyticus in Japanese seafoods with a tdh-specific PCR method, a chromogenic agar medium, and a most-probable-number method. The tdh gene was detected in 33 of 329 seafood samples (10.0%). The number of tdh-positive V. parahaemolyticus ranged from <3 to 93/10 g. The incidence of tdh-positive V. parahaemolyticus tended to be high in samples contaminated with relatively high levels of total V. parahaemolyticus. TDH-producing strains of V. parahaemolyticus were isolated from 11 of 33 tdh-positive samples (short-necked clam, hen clam, and rock oyster). TDH-producing strains of V. parahaemolyticus were also isolated from the sediments of rivers near the coast in Japan. Representative strains of the seafood and sediment isolates were examined for the O:K serovar and by the PCR method specific to the pandemic clone and arbitrarily primed PCR and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis techniques. The results indicated that most O3:K6 tdh-positive strains belonged to the pandemic O3:K6 clone and suggested that serovariation took place in the Japanese environment.
Characterisation of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) isolated from seafood and beef.	Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) strains isolated in Mangalore, India, were characterised by bead-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (bead-ELISA), Vero cell cytotoxicity assay, PCR and colony hybridisation for the detection of stx1 and stx2 genes. Four strains from seafood, six from beef and one from a clinical case of bloody diarrhoea were positive for Shiga toxins Stx1 and Stx2 and also for stx1and stx2 genes. The seafood isolates produced either Stx2 alone or both Stx1 and Stx2, while the beef isolates produced Stx1 alone. The stx1 gene of all the beef STEC was found to be of recently reported stx1c type. All STEC strains and one non-STEC strain isolated from clam harboured EHEC-hlyA. Interestingly, though all STEC strains were negative for eae gene, two STEC strains isolated from seafood and one from a patient with bloody diarrhoea possessed STEC autoagglutinating adhesion (saa) gene, recently identified as a gene encoding a novel autoagglutinating adhesion.
Infections related to the ingestion of seafood Part I: Viral and bacterial infections.	Foodborne diseases cause an estimated 76 million illnesses in the USA each year. Seafood is implicated in 10-19% of these illnesses. A causative agent can be traced in about 44% of seafood-related outbreaks, viruses accounting for around half of these illnesses. Although viruses are the most common cause of seafood-related infections, most hospitalisations and deaths are due to bacterial agents. A wide variety of viruses, bacteria, and parasites have been implicated in seafood-related outbreaks, which are reported worldwide. The factor most commonly associated with infection is consumption of raw or undercooked seafood. People with underlying disorders, particularly liver disease, are more susceptible to infection. The first part of this two-part review summarises the general incidence of seafood-related infections and discusses the common viral and bacterial causes of these infections. For each agent, the microbiology, epidemiology, mode of transmission, and treatment are discussed. In the May issue of the journal we will discuss parasites associated with seafood consumption, the safety of seafood, and the measures put in place in the USA to increase its safety.
Phenotypic and genotypic characteristics and epidemiological significance of ctx+ strains of Vibrio cholerae isolated from seafood in Malaysia.	Of 97 strains of Vibrio cholerae isolated from various seafoods in Malaysia in 1998 and 1999, 20 strains carried the ctx gene and produced cholera toxin. Fourteen, one, and five of these toxigenic strains belonged to the O139, O1 Ogawa, and rough serotypes, respectively. The rough strains had the rfb gene of the O1 serotype. The toxigenic strains varied in their biochemical characteristics, the amount of cholera toxin produced, their antibiograms, and the presence or absence of the pTLC plasmid sequence. DNA fingerprinting analysis by arbitrarily primed PCR, ribotyping, and a pulsed-field gel electrophoresis method classified the toxigenic strains into 3, 7, and 10 types, respectively. The relatedness of these toxigenic strains to clinical strains isolated in other countries and from international travelers was examined by using a dendrogram constructed from the pulsed-field gel electrophoresis profiles. The results of the examination of the antibiogram and the possession of the toxin-linked cryptic plasmid were consistent with the dendrogram-based relatedness: the O139 strains isolated from Malaysian seafoods could be separated into two groups that appear to have been introduced from the Bengal area independently. The rough strains of Malaysian seafood origin formed one group and belonged to a cluster unique to the Thailand-Malaysia-Laos region, and this group may have persisted in this area for a long period. The single O1 Ogawa strain detected in Malaysian seafood appears to have an origin and route of introduction different from those of the O139 and the rough strains.
Psychrobacter alimentarius sp. nov., isolated from squid jeotgal, a traditional Korean fermented seafood.	Two Gram-negative, non-motile, non-spore-forming, moderately halophilic strains, JG-100T and JG-102, were isolated from squid jeotgal, a traditional Korean fermented seafood. The two strains grew optimally at 30 degrees C and in the presence of 2-3 % (v/w) NaCl. Strains JG-100T and JG-102 were characterized chemotaxonomically; they both had ubiquinone-8 as the predominant respiratory lipoquinone and C(18 : 1)omega9c as the major fatty acid. Their DNA G+C content was 44 mol%. Strains JG-100T and JG-102 showed 1 bp difference in their 16S rRNA gene sequences and a mean DNA-DNA relatedness level of 88 %. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that strains JG-100T and JG-102 form a distinct phylogenetic lineage within the cluster comprising Psychrobacter species. The 16S rRNA gene sequences of strains JG-100T and JG-102 had similarity levels of 95.2-98.4 % to sequences of the type strains of recognized Psychrobacter species. Levels of DNA-DNA relatedness between strains JG-100T and JG-102 and the type strains of some phylogenetically related Psychrobacter species were 6-24 %. On the basis of phenotypic and phylogenetic data and genomic distinctiveness, strains JG-100T and JG-102 should be placed in the genus Psychrobacter as a novel species, for which the name Psychrobacter alimentarius sp. nov. (type strain, JG-100T=KCTC 12186T=DSM 16065T) is proposed.
Inactivation of pathogens inoculated into prepared seafood products for manufacturing kimbab, steamed rice rolled in dried seaweed, by gamma irradiation.	Three prepared seafood products for manufacturing a laver (dried seaweed) roll, a traditional and rapidly growing ready-to-eat meal in Korea, were selected and the effects of irradiation treatment for eliminating pathogens of public health significance were investigated. The pathogens tested were Salmonella Typhimurium, Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, and Listeria ivanovii. The radiation sensitivity (D10-values or the dose required to inactivate 90% of a population) of these organisms ranged from 0.23 to 0.62 kGy in imitation crab leg, 0.31 to 0.44 kGy in surimi gel, and 0.27 to 0.44 kGy in dried seaweed. The growth of all four test organisms inoculated (10(8) CFU/g) into these foods was inhibited by irradiation during 24 h of postirradiation storage regardless of the temperature (10, 20, and 30 degrees C). L. ivanovii was not detected after a 3-kGy treatment, but the other pathogens were not detected following irradiation at 2 kGy. These studies indicated that low-dose irradiation (2 kGy or less) of prepared seafood materials can keep them microbiologically safe before manufacturing a ready-to-eat prepared meal, a laver roll.
Incidence of Listeria monocytogenes in raw seafood products in Japanese retail stores.	The incidence of Listeria monocytogenes in raw fish, shellfish, and fish roe was investigated in seafood products collected from randomly selected retail stores in and around Tokyo, Japan. Of the 10 samples of 208 examined found positive for L. monocytogenes by mini-VIDAS LMO, seven were fish roe (cod, salmon) and three were minced tuna. Three serotypes (1/2a, 1/2b, 3b) were detected among the isolated strains; serotype 1/2a was predominant (8 of 10).
Acid-adaptation does not increase the resistance of Listeria monocytogenes to irradiation in a seafood salad.	Stress adaptation of microbial cells enables the cells to survive better when they are subsequently exposed to other types of stresses. In the food industry, pathogens are commonly stressed during food processing and this is a concern where pathogens such as Listeria monocytogenes are involved. Research was conducted to determine if acid adaptation of L. monocytogenes provides resistance to ionizing irradiation. Three different strains of L. monocytogenes were acid-adapted using three different acids (acetic, citric, lactic) in Tryptic Soy Broth, at a pH 5.5 for 1 h, 4 h, or continuous acid exposure. The acid-adapted L. monocytogenes were then exposed to a low level of gamma irradiation (0.59-0.72 kGy) along with a non-acid adapted L. monocytogenes control. In a test tube study, the 1-h acetic acid-adapted L. monocytogenes strains showed the greatest difference from the control, a reduced kill of 1.1 log CFU/g but this difference was not significant by ANOVA (p=0.054). The reduction achieved after 4 h and continuous acid exposure also did not significantly differ from the control. To determine whether acid adaptation affected radiation resistance within a food product, a refrigerated storage shelf-life study was completed. Acetic acid was used to acid adapt a three-strain cocktail of L. monocytogenes for a period of 1 h. The organisms were then inoculated into a seafood salad (pH 5.15) and subsequently exposed to low dose gamma irradiation (0.7 to 4.5 kGy). L. monocytogenes was reduced or eliminated by irradiation regardless of acid adaptation; no increased resistance was observed.
Significant histamine formation in tuna (Thunnus albacares) at 2 degrees C--effect of vacuum- and modified atmosphere-packaging on psychrotolerant bacteria.	Occurrence and importance of psychrotolerant histamine producing bacteria in chilled fresh tuna were demonstrated in the present study. The objective was to evaluate microbial formation of histamine and biogenic amines in chilled fresh tuna from the Indian Ocean and stored either vacuum-packed (VP) or modified atmosphere-packed (MAP). Firstly, biogenic amines and the dominating microbiota were determined in VP tuna involved in an outbreak of histamine fish poisoning in Denmark. Secondly, the microbiota of fresh MAP tuna was evaluated at the time of processing in Sri Lanka and chemical, microbial and sensory changes were evaluated during storage at 1-3 degrees C. To explain the results obtained with naturally contaminated tuna the effect of VP and MAP on biogenic amine formation by psychrotolerant bacteria was evaluated in challenge tests at 2 degrees C and 10 degrees C. The VP tuna that caused histamine fish poisoning had a histamine concentration of >7000 mg/kg and this high concentration was most likely produced by psychrotolerant Morganella morganii-like bacteria or by Photobacterium phosphoreum. Similar psychrotolerant M. morganii-like bacteria dominated the spoilage microbiota of fresh MAP tuna with 60% CO2/40% N2 and formed >5000 mg/kg of histamine after 24 days at 1.7 degrees C. These psychrotolerant bacteria were biochemically similar to M. morganii subsp. morganii and their 16S rDNA (1495 bp) showed >98% sequence similarity to the type strain of this species. Toxic concentrations of histamine were produced at 2.1 degrees C in inoculated VP tuna by both the psychrotolerant M. morganii-like bacteria (7400+/-1050 mg/kg) and P. phosphoreum (4250+/-2050 mg/kg). Interestingly, MAP with 40% CO2/60% O2, in challenge tests, had a strong inhibitory effect on growth and histamine formation by both the psychrotolerant M. morganii-like bacteria and P. phosphoreum. In agreement with this, no formation of histamine was found in naturally contaminated fresh MAP tuna with 40% CO2/60% O2 during 28 days of storage at 1.0 degrees C. To reduce current problems with histamine fish poisoning due to VP tuna it is suggested, for lean tuna loins, to replace vacuum packaging with MAP containing approximately 40% CO2 and approximately 60% O2.
Effect of frozen period on the chemical, microbiological and sensory quality of frozen Tilapia fish (Sarotherodun galiaenus).	The study was designed to investigate the effect of duration of frozen storage on the chemical, microbiological and sensory profile of Tilapia fish (Sarotherodun galiaenus) collected from a research pond of the Agricultural Development Project, Akure, Nigeria, subjected to sixty days of frozen storage and analyzed at intervals of ten days. Protein content (%) ranges from 43.70 +/- 1.17-60.65 +/- 2.40. Protein decreases with increasing duration of frozen storage with the fresh samples (not frozen) having the highest protein content (60.65 +/- 2.40) while the least (43.70 +/- 1.17) was recorded for fish samples that were frozen for sixty days. Similar results were obtained for the fat content (%) where the highest fat content (9.72 +/- 0.25) was recorded for the fresh samples and the least value was recorded for those stored for sixty days. Ash content (%) and moisture content (%) do not show any significant change during storage. Mineral composition (Fe, Ca, Mg, P and Zn in mg/100g) and iodine content (microg/100g) of the samples showed a slight change with respect to duration of storage. pH values ranges between 5.20-6.90 while the total coliform count range was between 3.0 x 10(3)-7.5 x 10(6) with increasing values, as the duration of storage increases. Sensory evaluation of the fish samples on storage revealed that quality of the fish samples with respect to taste decreases with increasing duration of storage with the best quality (texture, odor and color) when freshly prepared; and that better quality during storage is obtainable during the first ten days of storage. These, by implication simply mean that fish should be stored for a short period of time to retain the taste, and provide both the protein and fat at optimal level.
Effect of x-ray irradiation on reducing the risk of listeriosis in ready-to-eat vacuum-packaged smoked mullet.	Listeria monocytogenes can pose a serious threat in several areas of the nation's food supply including ready-to-eat seafood products. Use of irradiation processing can potentially reduce the risk of listeriosis caused by consumption of ready-to-eat seafood products. This study measured the effect of X-ray irradiation on reducing the population of L. monocytogenes on ready-to-eat, vacuum-packaged smoked mullet. Smoked mullet were inoculated with a five-strain mixture of L. monocytogenes (10(4) CFU/g), vacuum packaged, and irradiated (0, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0 kGy). The packaged fish were then stored at 3 and 10 degrees C for 90 and 17 days, respectively. Radiation doses of 0.5, 1.0, and 1.5 kGy reduced the initial population of L. monocytogenes by 1.1, 1.6, and 2.1 log CFU/g, respectively. The 2.0-kGy dose reduced L. monocytogenes to undetectable levels with no recovery growth at either temperature. Compared to the control, irradiation at 1.5 kGy demonstrated 1.0 and 1.7 log CFU/g less growth at 3 degrees C after 60 days and 10 degrees C after 17 days, respectively. Sensory flavor analysis was conducted to determine if a difference existed between irradiated samples. Panelists indicated that there were no differences among treated and untreated samples. An X-ray dose of 2 kGy effectively eliminated 10(4) CFU/g L. monocytogenes on smoked mullet without changing sensory quality.
Seasonal and tissue distribution of Laribacter hongkongensis, a novel bacterium associated with gastroenteritis, in retail freshwater fish in Hong Kong.	Laribacter hongkongensis, a recently discovered bacterium associated with community-acquired gastroenteritis, has been found in the intestines of freshwater fish. To better understand the epidemiology and ecology of the bacterium, we carried out a surveillance study to investigate possible seasonal variation in the recovery of L. hongkongensis and its distribution in various organs in retail freshwater fish in Hong Kong. Forty whole freshwater fish of two species (20 grass carps and 20 bighead carps), and intestines from 120 grass carps were sampled during a one-year period. L. hongkongensis was isolated from 11 (55%) of the 20 grass carps and 6 (30%) of the 20 bighead carps; and the intestines of 49 (41%) of 120 grass carps. Seasonal variation in the recovery of L. hongkongensis from both whole fish and intestines was observed, with higher isolation rates in spring and summer than in fall and winter. There was also positive correlation between temperature and the isolation rates. When L. hongkongensis was cultured in vitro at different temperatures, shorter lag time and higher growth rate were observed at higher temperatures, with 37 degrees C being optimal among the tested temperatures. L. hongkongensis was commonly found in the gills, stomachs and intestines in both grass carps and bighead carps, and on the skin surface of one fish, but not in other organs. Proper handling of freshwater fish for cooking, especially the gills and gut, is recommended to prevent acquisition of L. hongkongensis, and other freshwater fish related infections.
Prevalence of Campylobacter species in meat, milk and other food commodities in Pakistan.	A surveillance study was carried out to determine the prevalence of Campylobacter in meat, milk and other food commodities in Pakistan. Over a period of 3 years (January 2002-December 2004), a total of 1636 food samples of meat, milk and other food commodities were procured from three big cities of Pakistan (Faisalabad, Lahore and Islamabad) and were analysed. Among meat samples, the highest prevalence (48%) of Campylobacter was recorded in raw chicken meat followed by raw beef (10.9%) and raw mutton (5.1%). Among other food commodities, the highest prevalence was observed in vegetable/fruit salad (40.9%), sandwiches (32%), cheese (11%) and raw bulk milk samples (10.2%). The overall prevalence of Campylobacter was found to be 21.5%, out of which 70.6% were identified as Campylobacter (C.) jejuni and 29.4% as C. coli. The study reported that the prevalence of Campylobacter spp. was significantly higher in the food commodities, which included raw/undercooked ingredients.
Characterisation of the dominant bacterial population in modified atmosphere packaged farmed halibut (Hippoglossus hippoglossus) based on 16S rDNA-DGGE.	It is not well understood why Atlantic halibut (Hippoglossus hippoglossus) has longer shelf-life than most other white fish species. Our approach was to examine the microbiological diversity of the spoilage microbiota during modified atmosphere (MA) packaging of farmed Atlantic halibut. Portions were packaged with gas mixtures of CO(2):N(2) and CO(2):O(2) (50%:50%) and with air as a reference. The packages were stored at 4 degrees C and samples were taken 6 times during the 23 days of storage. Analyses with molecular techniques (PCR-DGGE) determined profiles of the bacterial populations in the various samples and sequencing detected the bacterial species present. In addition, samples were analysed for microbial, chemical and sensory parameters. The shelf-life was 10-13 days when stored in air and between 13 and 20 days for MA packages, with oxygen-enriched packages suggested as the better gas mixture, based on microbial growth and sensory scores. From sequence analyses of the bacterial population Photobacterium phosphoreum and Pseudomonas spp. were found to dominate in the halibut. Brochothrix thermosphacta was found in most samples at the end of the storage period. Shewanella putrefaciens was found sporadically and in low concentrations based on microbial methods, but not detected by PCR-DGGE.
Microbiological quality of maatjes herring stored in air and under modified atmosphere at 4 and 10 degrees C.	Microbiological and sensory changes of maatjes herring stored in air (experiment I) and under modified atmosphere (MAP) (experiments II and III) were evaluated during storage at 4 and 10 degrees C. Microbial (total and psychrotrophic viable bacteria, lactic acid bacteria and Enterobacteriaceae) counts and chemical analyses (chloride content, fat content, dry matter, ash and pH) were performed. A Quality Index Method (QIM) scheme developed for maatjes herring was used for sensory evaluation. The main reasons for sensory rejections at both storage temperatures were a strong rancid taste for herring stored in air (Experiment I) and a sour, bitter, rotten taste and an aftertaste like old flower water for MAP herring (Experiments II and III). A soft texture of freshly produced samples (Experiment II) was noticed. The sensory shelf-life of maatjes herring stored in air (Experiment I) was three days at both 4 and 10 degrees C. The MAP herring in Experiments II and III had a shelf-life of 5 and 6 days, respectively, at both storage temperatures. Rancidity due to oxidation of fat was the main spoilage indicator for air-stored maatjes herring. Autolytic enzymes may affect textural deterioration. The characteristic off-odour and off-taste in the MAP herring (Experiments II and III) were may well be attributable to microbial metabolism. On the day of sensory rejection, total viable counts for herring in all three experiments (Experiments I-III) stored at 4 degrees C did not reach 10(6)cfu/g, which is considered the limit of acceptability for maatjes herring given by the Dutch fishery authorities. It appears that total viable counts have minor significance in the sensory assessment of maatjes herring.
Evaluation of the international reference methods NF EN ISO 11290-1 and 11290-2 and an in-house method for the isolation of Listeria monocytogenes from retail seafood products in france.	Retail seafood products were analyzed on their use-by date using the international reference methods NF EN ISO 11290-1 and 11290-2 (collectively method R) or an in-house method (method B) for the isolation of Listeria monocytogenes. The sensitivity of the methods was about 78%. Method R detected more positive samples of smoked salmon and herb-flavored slices of smoked salmon than did method B, whereas the reverse was true for samples of carpaccio-like salmon, herb-flavored slices of raw salmon, and smoked trout. Most products produced a positive result after the first of two enrichments, and little difference was observed after changing the isolation medium (Listeria selective agar, L. monocytogenes blood agar, agar for Listeria according to Ottaviani and Agosti, Oxford agar, and Palcam agar). L. monocytogenes was isolated from 151 (27.8%) of the 543 samples, with concentrations mostly below 100 CFU/g. The pathogen prevalence and concentration in these seafood products varied greatly depending on the producer and the nature of the product. In certain cases, these differences could be explained by problems in cleaning and disinfection operations in the food-processing environment. The identities of L. monocytogenes isolates were confirmed by PCR, and isolates were characterized by random amplification of polymorphic DNA and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). PFGE patterns obtained with the enzymes Apal and AscI produced 26 different pulsotypes. In general, different pulsotypes were present in the different categories of seafood products and were not specific to one producer. The genetic diversity observed in the products was not related to the prevalence found at the manufacturing site. It is therefore important for producers to determine the source(s) of contamination of their product so the risks linked to the presence of L. monocytogenes can be reduced.
Paenibacillus tyraminigenes sp. nov. isolated from Myeolchi-jeotgal, a traditional Korean salted and fermented anchovy.	A bacterial strain H3029, a gram-positive, rod-shaped, oxidase-negative, endospore-forming bacterium that characteristically produces tyramine from tyrosine, was isolated from a Myeolchi-jeotgal, a traditional Korean salted and fermented anchovy (Engraulis japonicus). The H3029 strain showed a high ability to produce 4140 microg/ml of tyramine from the culture broth containing 5000 microg/ml tyrosine. On the other hand, the strain produced a relatively low level of other putrefactive amines, at 973 microg/ml of putrescine and 147 microg/ml of cadaverine from the media, with each 5000 microg/ml of ornithine hydrochloride and lysine hydrochloride. The H3029 strain produced no detectable level of histamine (detection limit of 4 microg/ml) from the media containing 5000 microg/ml of histidine hydrochloride. Meanwhile, tyramine, the main product of the strain, showed the antimicrobial activity at the level of over 1 mg/disk against Staphylococcus aureus by agar diffusion test, and the mutagenicity in Ames test at 0.1 mg/plate using Salmonella typhimurium TA98 and TA1535. On the basis of the polyphasic taxonomic study, the H3029(T) strain was assigned a novel species of the genus Paenibacillus as Paenibacillus tyraminigenes sp. nov. The type strain of which is strain H3029(T) (=KCTC 10694BP(T)).
Modelling spoilage of fresh turbot and evaluation of a time-temperature integrator (TTI) label under fluctuating temperature.	Kinetic models were developed to predict the microbial spoilage and the sensory quality of fresh fish and to evaluate the efficiency of a commercial time-temperature integrator (TTI) label, Fresh Check(R), to monitor shelf life. Farmed turbot (Psetta maxima) samples were packaged in PVC film and stored at 0, 5, 10 and 15 degrees C. Microbial growth and sensory attributes were monitored at regular time intervals. The response of the Fresh Check device was measured at the same temperatures during the storage period. The sensory perception was quantified according to a global sensory indicator obtained by principal component analysis as well as to the Quality Index Method, QIM, as described by Rahman and Olley [Rahman, H.A., Olley, J., 1984. Assessment of sensory techniques for quality assessment of Australian fish. CSIRO Tasmanian Regional Laboratory. Occasional paper n. 8. Available from the Australian Maritime College library. Newnham. Tasmania]. Both methods were found equally valid to monitor the loss of sensory quality. The maximum specific growth rate of spoilage bacteria, the rate of change of the sensory indicators and the rate of change of the colour measurements of the TTI label were modelled as a function of temperature. The temperature had a similar effect on the bacteria, sensory and Fresh Check kinetics. At the time of sensory rejection, the bacterial load was ca. 10(5)-10(6) cfu/g. The end of shelf life indicated by the Fresh Check label was close to the sensory rejection time. The performance of the models was validated under fluctuating temperature conditions by comparing the predicted and measured values for all microbial, sensory and TTI responses. The models have been implemented in a Visual Basic add-in for Excel called "Fish Shelf Life Prediction (FSLP)". This program predicts sensory acceptability and growth of spoilage bacteria in fish and the response of the TTI at constant and fluctuating temperature conditions. The program is freely available at http://www.azti.es/muestracontenido.asp?idcontenido=980&content=15&nodo1=30&nodo2=0.
Effectiveness of chitosan-coated plastic films incorporating antimicrobials in inhibition of Listeria monocytogenes on cold-smoked salmon.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of chitosan-coated plastic films incorporating five Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) antimicrobials (nisin, sodium lactate (SL), sodium diacetate (SD), potassium sorbate (PS) and sodium benzoate (SB)) against Listeria monocytogenes on cold-smoked salmon. Salmon samples were surface-inoculated with a five-strain cocktail of L. monocytogenes and packaged in chitosan-coated plastic films containing 500 IU/cm(2) of nisin, 9 mg/cm(2) of SL, 0.5 mg/cm(2) of SD, 0.6 mg/cm(2) of PS, or 0.2 mg/cm(2) of SB, and stored at room temperature (ca. 20 degrees C) for 10 days. The film incorporating SL was the most effective, completely inhibiting the growth of L. monocytogenes during 10 days of storage. L. monocytogenes in samples packaged in the other four antimicrobial films grew, but the increase in counts was lower than the control. The antilisterial efficacy of films containing lower concentrations of SL (2.3 mg/cm(2) and 4.5 mg/cm(2)) and binary combinations SL, PS, SD, SB and nisin were subsequently evaluated. Among all the treatments, chitosan-coated plastic films with 4.5 mg/cm(2) SL, 4.5 mg/cm(2) SL-0.6 mg/cm(2) PS and 2.3 mg/cm(2) SL-500 IU/cm(2) nisin were the most effective. These three most effective antimicrobial films were then tested at refrigerated temperature. They completely inhibited the growth of L. monocytogenes on smoked salmon for at least 6 weeks. Chitosan-coated plastic films containing 4.5 mg/cm(2) SL can potentially assist the smoked-salmon processing industry in their efforts to control L. monocytogenes.
gcpA (stm1987) is critical for cellulose production and biofilm formation on polystyrene surface by Salmonella enterica serovar Weltevreden in both high and low nutrient medium.	Biofilm formation by Salmonella is a serious concern in the food-processing industry and the persistence of the organism in biofilms becomes a constant source of contamination. Since there is zero tolerance for Salmonella in foods, it is important to understand the mechanism of biofilm formation and to prevent the formation. Therefore, this study aimed at investigating the biofilm-forming ability of seafood isolates of Salmonella enterica serovar Weltevreden (S. Weltevreden) under two different nutrient conditions (normal strength trypticase soy broth (TSB) and 1:100 diluted TSB). The role of cellulose production in biofilm formation and in the expression of multicellular behavior (rough, dark, red morphotype: rdar) was investigated. Fourteen isolates of seafood associated S. Weltevreden were studied for biofilm production in polystyrene microtitre plates. Only one (SW49) of 14 was a strong biofilm former on polystyrene template and was able to produce biofilm in both undiluted TSB and 1:100 diluted TSB at 24h. All others produced moderate or weak biofilms which was higher in 1:100 diluted TSB compared to undiluted medium. All the isolates except one were positive by PCR for the three genes, gcpA (stm1987), adrA (yaiC) and csgD. Gene expression of gcpA, adrA and csgD was studied by real-time PCR with the one strong (SW49) and one representative weak (SW30) biofilm former. In SW49 at 24h of incubation, the expression of gcpA from biofilm cells was 33 and 36 times higher than from planktonic cells grown in TSB and diluted TSB respectively and at 72h the expression from biofilm cells was 57 and 61 times higher than that from planktonic cells. Quantification of gene expression did not reveal any significant difference in the expression of csgD and adrA gene. Deletion of gcpA in SW49 resulted in its inability to produce cellulose and consequent inability to bind calcoflour, inability to form rdar colony on Congo Red-agar plates and failure to produce biofilm on polystyrene substrate. The data indicated that, in case of S. Weltevreden, gcpA is critical for activating cellulose synthesis and biofilm formation both in undiluted and diluted TSB. The results of this study suggest the existence of an alternative biofilm regulatory pathway in S. Weltevreden. Role of adrA in cellulose production in nutrient rich medium is known but role of gepA in the above phenomenon is proved in this study. An understanding of the genes involved would help in looking at strategies of repression of the gene to control formation of biofilm.
Zoonotic bacterium: duty to notify advisable]	Vibrio vulnificus is a zoonotic bacterium that can be found in raw fish (mainly eel and oysters) and seawater. Human infections may extend from wound infections to fasciitis necroticans or primary sepsis with a mortality rate of more than 50%. Although V. vulnificus is mainly found in the USA, its worldwide spread is also likely to involve the Netherlands, as demonstrated by an increasing number of infected fish farms. Since 2007, V. vulnificus infections have become a notifiable infectious disease in the USA. Due to the high mortality rate and an increase in the number of elderly people with known risk factors for infection, we argue that human V. vulnificus infections should become a notifiable infectious disease in the Netherlands as well. This would provide reliable information on the epidemiology and facilitate correct risk assessment for public health.
Use of Carnobacterium maltaromaticum cultures and hydroalcoholic extract of Lippia sidoides Cham. against Listeria monocytogenes in fish model systems.	Minimally processed refrigerated ready-to-eat fishes may offer health risk of severe infection to susceptible individuals due to contamination by the psychrotolerant bacterium L. monocytogenes. In this work, inhibition of L. monocytogenes by a plant extract and lactic acid bacteria (LAB) was studied in model fish systems kept at 5 °C for 35 days. For that, fillets of tropical fish "surubim" (Pseudoplatystoma sp.) and hydroalcoholic extract of the plant Lippia sidoides Cham. ("alecrim pimenta") were used. Fish peptone broth (FPB), "surubim" broth and "surubim" homogenate were inoculated with combinations of L. monocytogenes and bacteriocin-producing Carnobacterium maltaromaticum (C2 and A9b(+)) and non bacteriocin-producing C. maltaromaticum (A9b(-)), in the presence or absence of extract of "alecrim pimenta" (EAP). In all model systems, monocultures of L. monocytogenes and carnobacteria reached final populations ≥10(8) CFU/ml after 35 days, except for L. monocytogenes in "surubim" homogenate (10(4) CFU/ml). In FPB, EAP alone and combined with cultures of LAB inhibited L. monocytogenes but carnobacteria without EAP were only weakly antilisterial. In "surubim" broth, EAP alone did not prevent L. monocytogenes growth but cultures of carnobacteria combined or not with EAP inhibited L. monocytogenes, with more pronounced effect being observed for C. maltaromaticum C2, which produced bacteriocin. In "surubim" homogenate, EAP alone and combined with cultures of C. maltaromaticum A9b(-) and A9b(+) were strongly inhibitory to L. monocytogenes, while C. maltaromaticum C2 with EAP caused transient inhibition of L. monocytogenes. No significant inhibition of L. monocytogenes was observed for carnobacteria in "surubim" homogenate without EAP. In conclusion, it was observed that the use of EAP and cultures of carnobacteria have potential to inhibit L. monocytogenes in fish systems and the applications should be carefully studied, considering the influence of food matrix.
Listeria monocytogenes survival of UV-C radiation is enhanced by presence of sodium chloride, organic food material and by bacterial biofilm formation.	The bactericidal effect on food processing surfaces of ceiling-mounted UV-C light (wavelength 254 nm) was determined in a fish smoke house after the routine cleaning and disinfection procedure. The total aerobic counts were reduced during UV-C light exposure (48 h) and the number of Listeria monocytogenes positive samples went from 30 (of 68) before exposure to 8 (of 68). We therefore in a laboratory model determined the L. monocytogenes reduction kinetics by UV-C light with the purpose of evaluating the influence of food production environmental variables, such as presence of NaCl, organic material and the time L. monocytogenes was allowed to adhere to steel before exposure. L. monocytogenes grown and attached in tryptone soy broth (TSB) with glucose were rapidly killed (after 2 min) by UV-C light. However, bacteria grown and adhered in TSB with glucose and 5% NaCl were more resistant and numbers declined with 4-5 log units during exposure of 8-10 min. Bacteria grown in juice prepared from cold-smoked salmon were protected and numbers were reduced with 2-3 log when UV-C light was used immediately after attachment whereas numbers did not change at all if bacteria had been allowed to form a biofilm for 7 days before exposure. It is not known if this enhanced survival is due to physiological changes in the attached bacterial cells, a physical protection of the cells in the food matrix or a combination. In conclusion, we demonstrate that UV-C light is a useful extra bacteriocidal step and that it, as all disinfecting procedures, is hampered by the presence of organic material.
Use of global sensitivity analysis in quantitative microbial risk assessment: application to the evaluation of a biological time temperature integrator as a quality and safety indicator for cold smoked salmon.	The aim of this study was to apply a global sensitivity analysis (SA) method in model simplification and to evaluate (eO)®, a biological Time Temperature Integrator (TTI) as a quality and safety indicator for cold smoked salmon (CSS). Models were thus developed to predict the evolutions of Listeria monocytogenes and the indigenous food flora in CSS and to predict TTIs endpoint. A global SA was then applied on the three models to identify the less important factors and simplify the models accordingly. Results showed that the subset of the most important factors of the three models was mainly composed of the durations and temperatures of two chill chain links, out of the control of the manufacturers: the domestic refrigerator and the retail/cabinet links. Then, the simplified versions of the three models were run with 10(4) time temperature profiles representing the variability associated to the microbial behavior, to the TTIs evolution and to the French chill chain characteristics. The results were used to assess the distributions of the microbial contaminations obtained at the TTI endpoint and at the end of the simulated profiles and proved that, in the case of poor storage conditions, the TTI use could reduce the number of unacceptable foods by 50%.
Study of the quality characteristics in cold-smoked salmon (Salmo salar) originating from pre- or post-rigor raw material.	Improved slaughtering procedures in the salmon industry have caused a delayed onset of rigor mortis and, thus, a potential for pre-rigor secondary processing. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of rigor status at time of processing on quality traits color, texture, sensory, microbiological, in injection salted, and cold-smoked Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar). Injection of pre-rigor fillets caused a significant (P<0.001) contraction (-7.9%± 0.9%) on the caudal-cranial axis. No significant differences in instrumental color (a*, b*, C*, or h*), texture (hardness), or sensory traits (aroma, color, taste, and texture) were observed between pre- or post-rigor processed fillets; however, post-rigor (1477 ± 38 g) fillets had a significant (P>0.05) higher fracturability than pre-rigor fillets (1369 ± 71 g). Pre-rigor fillets were significantly (P<0.01) lighter, L*, (39.7 ± 1.0) than post-rigor fillets (37.8 ± 0.8) and had significantly lower (P<0.05) aerobic plate count (APC), 1.4 ± 0.4 log CFU/g against 2.6 ± 0.6 log CFU/g, and psychrotrophic count (PC), 2.1 ± 0.2 log CFU/g against 3.0 ± 0.5 log CFU/g, than post-rigor processed fillets. This study showed that similar quality characteristics can be obtained in cold-smoked products processed either pre- or post-rigor when using suitable injection salting protocols and smoking techniques.
Genome sequence of the human-pathogenetic bacterium Vibrio vulnificus B2.	Vibrio vulnificus, which can lead to rapidly expanding cellulitis or septicemia, is present in the marine environment. Here, we present the draft genome sequence of strain B2, which was isolated from a septicemia patient in 2010.
Pyrosequencing-based analysis of the bacterial community in Korean traditional seafood, ojingeo jeotgal.	Jeotgal fermentation is dependent upon a diverse microbial community, although a detailed understanding of its microbial composition is limited to a relatively small number of jeotgal. Pyrosequencing-based bacterial community analysis was performed in fermented squid, ojingeo jeotgal. Leuconostoc was identified as the predominant bacterial genus, with Bacillus and Staphylococcus also accounting for a large proportion of the bacterial community. Phylogenetic analysis with 16S rRNA genes of Leuconostoc type species indicated that L. citreum- and L. holzapfelii-like strains could be the major Leuconostoc strains in jeotgal. High concentrations of NaCl were thought to be an important factor determining the makeup of the bacterial community in the fermented squid; however, a genomic survey with osmotic stress-related genes suggests the existence of more complex factors selecting the dominant bacterial species in fermented squid. 
Differences in the stress tolerances of Vibrio parahaemolyticus strains due to their source and harboring of virulence genes.	To investigate the diversity of stress tolerance levels in Vibrio parahaemolyticus, 200 V. parahaemolyticus strains isolated from various coastal environments, seafood, and human clinical cases were exposed to acid, low-osmolality, freezing-thawing, and heat stresses. Tolerance against acid stress was higher in the virulent (tdh- and/or trh-positive) strains than in the avirulent (tdh- and trh-negative) strains. Tolerance against low-osmolality, freezing-thawing, and heat stresses was higher in the clinical strains of tdh- and/or trh-positive V. parahaemolyticus than in the coastal environment- and seafood-originated strains of tdh and/or trh-positive V. parahaemolyticus. Tolerance against acid stress was higher in the strains isolated from coastal seawater at ≤15°C than in the strains isolated at ≥20°C. Tolerance against heat stress was higher in the avirulent strains than the virulent strains, and in the strains isolated from coastal seawater at ≥20°C than the strains isolated from coastal seawater at ≤15°C. Therefore, this study demonstrated that the diversity of stress tolerance levels in V. parahaemolyticus strains depended on their source and whether they harbored virulence genes. In particular, there was significantly greater tolerance against acid in the virulence gene-harboring strains and strains isolated from low-temperature seawater. Because the stress tolerances of V. parahaemolyticus have direct influences for the survival in environment and food, it is important for the prevention of foodborne infection to control the stress-tolerant strains. 
Commercial biopreservatives combined with salt and sugar to control Listeria monocytogenes during smoked salmon processing.	Three commercial antimicrobials, applied during the salting stage in the preparation of cold-smoked salmon, were investigated for their effect on the behavior of Listeria monocytogenes. Fresh salmon inoculated with L. monocytogenes INIA 2530 was treated with three bacteriocin-based commercial biopreservatives, which were applied in combination with a salt-sugar mix. The product was kept at 8°C for 7 days. L. monocytogenes grew by approximately 3 log CFU/g in control salmon (without the salt-sugar mix or biopreservatives). Pathogen levels were reduced by the three biopreservatives investigated. After 7 days at 8°C, L. monocytogenes counts in salmon treated with biopreservatives combined with the salt-sugar mix were significantly lower than those observed in salmon treated with only salt and sugar. At the end of storage, salmon treated with biopreservative derived from Pediococcus acidilactici had pathogen levels 3.6 log CFU/g lower than in control salmon (without the salt-sugar mix) and 1.5 log CFU/g lower than in the samples treated with only salt and sugar. The application of commercial biopreservatives to fresh salmon during the dry-salting stage might help control L. monocytogenes growth, thus enhancing the safety of cold-smoked salmon during refrigerated storage. 
Evolution of the indigenous microbiota in modified atmosphere packaged Atlantic horse mackerel (Trachurus trachurus) identified by conventional and molecular methods.	A combination of conventional methods and genetic identification (PCR sequencing) was used to study the dynamics of the bacterial population during the spoilage of modified atmosphere packaged (MAP) Atlantic horse mackerel (Trachurus trachurus) fillets. The cultivable microflora in Atlantic horse mackerel samples packaged in a modified atmosphere (48% CO2, 50% N2 and 2% O2) at refrigeration temperature (6 °C) was measured on days 1, 5 and 7 using non-selective (Long and Hammer agar) and selective media (Kligler's iron agar, STAA and MRS). The microflora was genetically characterised using partial amplification of 16S rRNA gene sequences from 309 bacterial isolates obtained from Long and Hammer agar. At the end of the shelf life (5 days), the total viable counts (TVC) on Long and Hammer agar were not significantly different to the LAB counts on MRS agar (p>0.05). The molecular approach showed that Photobacterium, Arthrobacter, Chryseobacterium and Pseudoclavibacter (44.5% of total) dominated the microbial composition of the fish at the beginning of storage. However, Serratia, Shewanella and Yersinia dominated at the late spoilage stages (over 57.2% of the total). Carnobacterium was the most important species of the lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and was identified at the beginning and end of the storage period. Vibrio spp. was only found at the end of the shelf life. This research demonstrates that the microbial biodiversity in MAP Atlantic horse mackerel is enormous and the dominant species change over the storage time. The results presented here on the dominant communities in fish products will make it possible to accurately select the best preservation practices.
A predictive model for assessment of decontamination effects of lactic acid and chitosan used in combination on Vibrio parahaemolyticus in shrimps.	Vibrio parahaemolyticus is a major causative agent of human gastroenteritis in seafood products including shrimps. Lactic acid and chitosan are natural antimicrobials for food decontamination in the washing process of seafood. In this research, a 4-factor response surface model based on the Box-Behnken experimental design was developed to evaluate the effects of lactic acid (1%, 2%, and 3%, v/v), chitosan (0.4%, 1%, and 1.6%, w/v), rotational rate (90, 110, and 130 rpm) and washing time (10, 20, and 30 min) on reduction of V. parahaemolyticus inoculated in raw shrimps. These treatments achieved 2.2 to 4.3 log10 CFU/g reduction of V. parahaemolyticus in shrimps. Stepwise stratification led to a simplified model that has a satisfactory performance as evidenced by statistical indices (R(2) = 0.92; p<0.0001; RMSE = 0.196) and external validation parameters [bias factor (Bf) = 1.01; accuracy factor (Af) = 1.05]. The model generated an optimum treatment combination (3% lactic acid, 1.6% chitosan, and rotational rate at 110 rpm) that could achieve greatest bacterial reduction of 4.5 log10 CFU/g. Among the four factors, lactic acid and chitosan were the major contributors for bacterial decontamination. Analysis of variances showed a significant interactive inactivation effect (p<0.05) from combined use of lactic acid and chitosan. The treatments did not have adverse effects on the quality attributes such as color and pH of the shrimps.
Development and validation of an extensive growth and growth boundary model for psychrotolerant Lactobacillus spp. in seafood and meat products.	A new and extensive growth and growth boundary model for psychrotolerant Lactobacillus spp. was developed and validated for processed and unprocessed products of seafood and meat. The new model was developed by refitting and expanding an existing cardinal parameter model for growth and the growth boundary of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) in processed seafood (O. Mejlholm and P. Dalgaard, J. Food Prot. 70. 2485-2497, 2007). Initially, to estimate values for the maximum specific growth rate at the reference temperature of 25 °C (μref) and the theoretical minimum temperature that prevents growth of psychrotolerant LAB (T(min)), the existing LAB model was refitted to data from experiments with seafood and meat products reported not to include nitrite or any of the four organic acids evaluated in the present study. Next, dimensionless terms modelling the antimicrobial effect of nitrite, and acetic, benzoic, citric and sorbic acids on growth of Lactobacillus sakei were added to the refitted model, together with minimum inhibitory concentrations determined for the five environmental parameters. The new model including the effect of 12 environmental parameters, as well as their interactive effects, was successfully validated using 229 growth rates (μ(max) values) for psychrotolerant Lactobacillus spp. in seafood and meat products. Average bias and accuracy factor values of 1.08 and 1.27, respectively, were obtained when observed and predicted μ(max) values of psychrotolerant Lactobacillus spp. were compared. Thus, on average μ(max) values were only overestimated by 8%. The performance of the new model was equally good for seafood and meat products, and the importance of including the effect of acetic, benzoic, citric and sorbic acids and to a lesser extent nitrite in order to accurately predict growth of psychrotolerant Lactobacillus spp. was clearly demonstrated. The new model can be used to predict growth of psychrotolerant Lactobacillus spp. in seafood and meat products e.g. prediction of the time to a critical cell concentration of bacteria is considered useful for establishing the shelf life. In addition, the high number of environmental parameters included in the new model makes it flexible and suitable for product development as the effect of substituting one combination of preservatives with another can be predicted. In general, the performance of the new model was unacceptable for other types of LAB including Carnobacterium spp., Leuconostoc spp. and Weissella spp.
Seafood a potential source of some zoonotic bacteria in Zagazig, Egypt, with the molecular detection of Listeria monocytogenes virulence genes.	This article describes the results of a study conducted on 71 fresh seafood samples (fish and shellfish) marketed in Zagazig city, Sharkia province, Egypt, as well as on 50 human stool samples collected at the Zagazig University Hospital. The samples were examined for the presence of Listeria monocytogenes and Escherichia coli. The investigation of L. monocytogenes virulence genes was performed using Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR), while the microbiological quality of the seafood samples was evaluated using the coliform count and aerobic plate count (APC) as indicators. Out of the examined 71 seafood samples, 20 (28.2%) were identified as L. monocytogenes, 15 (75%) of which were confirmed as virulent strains. Also, out of 50 human stool samples, only 1 (2%) was identified as virulent L. monocytogenes. E. coli serotypes were isolated from only 11.3% of seafood and 30% of human stool samples. In shellfish, the APC and most probable number of coliforms (MPC) were higher than those obtained from other fish samples. Multiplex PCR targeting internalin genes allowed simultaneous identification of L. monocytogenes and differentiation of virulent strains, thus enabling more timely detection of cases and sources of food borne listeriosis. The article concludes by stressing that the isolation of potentially virulent L. monocytogenes and E. coli from both seafood samples and humans emphasises the potential public health hazard caused by eating raw or undercooked shellfish. 
Vibrio infections and surveillance in Maryland, 2002-2008.	Vibrio is a naturally occurring waterborne pathogen with potential occupational, recreational, and commercial impacts. During the last 15 years in the U.S. and in Maryland, the incidence of vibriosis has increased. Due to the increase in cases in Maryland, warming water temperatures, and public concern about human health effects resulting from exposure to the Chesapeake Bay, we reviewed cases of vibriosis and evaluated the Vibrio surveillance system in Maryland for timeliness and data quality, attributes necessary for successful outbreak investigation and illness prevention.
Salmonella and the international food trade.	Non-typhoid Salmonella spp. continue to figure prominently in many national epidemiological registries as the leading cause of bacterial foodborne disease. Although Salmonella enterocolitis is generally a self-limiting illness that may require fluid and electrolyte replacement, the disease can spread systemically and degenerate into a chronic condition such as reactive arthritis, osteomyelitis, cardiac inflammation or neural disorders. Ampicillin, chloramphenicol and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole have provided the mainstay of therapy for the clinical management of bacteremic salmonellosis. However, the increasing occurrence of strains that are resistant to one or more of these traditional antibacterial drugs has resulted in the wider use of quinolones for the treatment of Salmonella septicaemia. Successful clinical results with these newer drugs are already being overshadowed by the emergence of salmonellae that are resistant to these therapeutic agents. A rapidly growing international trade in agricultural, aquacultural and manufactured food products has greatly facilitated the introduction of new Salmonella serovars within the geographical boundaries of importing countries. This paper reviews the prevalence of Salmonella in selected food types that are subject to the import-export market and attendant epidemiological overtones. More specifically, the importance of fresh fruits and vegetables, spices, cheese, and aquacultural products as vehicles of human infection will be underlined. The potential impact of the widespread use of antibiotics of importance in human medicine in the aquaculture industry will also be discussed. The ubiquitous distribution of Salmonella in the natural environment and its prevalence in the global food chain, the physiological adaptability and virulence of this important human bacterial pathogen, and its potentially serious economic impact on the food industry predicate the need for continued vigilance and stringent controls at all levels of food production.
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus in fish and seafood from the southern region of Brazil.	An investigation to evaluate the microbiological condition and safety of fish and seafood commonly harvested at the coast of Santa Catarina State and sold in Florianópolis was undertaken. One hundred and seventy-five samples of fish and fish fillets (Cynoscion leiarchus), shrimp tails (Peneaus paulensis), shellfish-meat (Anomalocardia brasiliensis and Metilus edulis), and crab-meat (Callinectes sapidus) were collected from markets and examined within 4 h of purchase. For isolation and enumeration of Escherichia coli the methods used were those of Speck et al. (1975) (Method 1) and Fishbein et al. (1976) (Method 2); for S. aureus, methods recommended by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration were used including biochemical identification of the strains. E. coli was more frequently detected with Method 1 than Method 2. Of 317 E. coli strains tested for STG and LT II toxins, only one (isolated from shellfish-meat) produced ST and none produced LT II toxin. S. aureus was isolated from 20% of 175 samples examined, including 60% of samples of shellfish-meat. Only nine of 109 S. aureus strains produced enterotoxins, including enterotoxin A (4), D (1) and AB (4). It is concluded that greater care must be taken to reduce contamination of fish and seafood during harvesting and post-harvest handling.
The growth and expression of virulence factors at refrigeration temperature by Aeromonas strains isolated from foods.	A potentially significant subset (10%, 6/61) of Aeromonas strains isolated from food (milk, lamb, chicken, seafood), all A. veronii biotype sobria, were able to produce two or more exotoxins (haemolysin, enterotoxin, and cytotoxin) at 37 degrees C, and grow well at 43 degrees C. Although mesophilic organisms, they grew at 5 degrees C. In addition, they could adhere to HEp-2 cells when grown at 37 degrees C, or at 5 degrees C, and expressed flexible pili (possible colonization factors) in greater numbers at the lower temperature. These strains, as well as other exotoxin-producing strains (A. veronii biotype sobria and A. hydrophila) (33%, 20/61) lacking adhesive ability, were able to produce cytotoxins in broth cultures over a seven to 10-day period at 5 degrees C. One strain in particular, an A. hydrophila isolated from goats' milk, grew rapidly at low temperature. This psychrotrophic strain produced all three exotoxins within 3 days in broth cultures at 5 degrees C. The properties of the above strains suggest they could be of public health significance in food products that have an extended shelf-life at refrigeration temperature.
Isolation and characterization of Aeromonas from seafoods in Taipei.	A total of 124 fresh seafoods and 158 processed seafoods collected from the retail markets and supermarkets in Taipei were tested for the contamination with motile Aeromonas spp. Of the fresh seafoods analyzed, 88% displayed the presence of Aeromonas. The isolation rates of various samples were as follows: 100%, freshwater fish; 95%, seawater fish; 78%, fish fillets; 84%, shrimp and crab of the crustacea group; 83%, bivalve shellfish and 84%, non-bivalve shellfish of the mollusca group, and 100%, seaweed. Of the 158 processed seafoods, 11% were contaminated by Aeromonas. The isolation rates were as follows: 0%, canned, dried, or frozen fresh seafood; 18%, salted seafood; 30%, fish cake; 7% vacuum-packaged fish cakes; 14%, frozen seafood dumplings; 8%, cooked seafoods. One hundred and eighty-three Aeromonas strains isolated in this survey were characterized to species level and tested for their ability to produce beta-hemolysin. Ninety-eight percent (98%) of the A. hydrophila produced beta-hemolysin on 5% blood agar, 94% of the A. sobria and 33% of the A. caviae produced beta-hemolysin. Thus it is likely that fresh seafoods are potentially significant sources of the virulent Aeromonas species and may play an important role in the epidemiology of Aeromonas-associated gastroenteritis.
Occurrence of Shiga-like toxin-producing Escherichia coli in retail fresh seafood, beef, lamb, pork, and poultry from grocery stores in Seattle, Washington.	Fresh meat, poultry, and seafood purchased from Seattle area grocery stores were investigated for the presence of Shiga-like toxin-producing Escherichia coli by using DNA probes for Shiga-like toxin (SLT) genes I and II. Of the 294 food samples tested, 17% had colonies with sequence homology to SLT I and/or SLT II genes.
The origin of non-outbreak Vibrio parahaemolyticus infections on Guam.	A study of Vibrio parahaemolyticus infected patients not associated with known outbreaks and controls matched for sex, ethnicity and age (+/- 5 years) was conducted on Guam. Cases were asked if they had eaten seafood within the 24-hour period preceding onset of illness and controls were asked if they had eaten seafood within the 24-hour period preceding their interview. Cases were more likely than controls to have eaten seafood (OR = 37.59, CL [8.30-220.24]).
False-positive fluorescence by pink salmon tissue and staphylococci in a rapid test for Escherichia coli.	Fluorescence from 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-D-glucuronide (MUG) hydrolysis is a common, rapid method for determining Escherichia coli in water and food. False-positive fluorescence occurred when either pink salmon fillets were tested or beta-glucuronidase-positive Staphylococcus species were present in other fish products. Salmon fillet, E. coli, S. xylosus, and S. warneri produced 2, 17, 39, and 43 nmol of 4-methylumbelliferone per ml, respectively, in a one-step detection broth (lauryl salts tryptose broth with MUG) for E. coli after 48 h at 35 degrees C. These false-positive reactions need to be considered when testing fish products, especially those contaminated through human handling.
Thawed cod fillets spoil less rapidly than unfrozen fillets when stored under modified atmosphere at 2 degrees C.	The effect of two months of frozen storage at -20 degrees C on the spoilage characteristics and shelf life of thawed and modified atmosphere packed (MAP) cod fillets stored at 2 degrees C was studied. Thawed MAP cod fillets were compared with fresh cod fillets stored in CO2-containing modified atmospheres with and without added oxygen. The shelf life of 11 to 12 days in the fresh MAP cod was extended to more than 20 days in the thawed MAP cod at 2 degrees C. This shelf life extension was most likely due to the inactivation of the spoilage bacterium Photobacterium phosphoreum during frozen storage as reflected both in chemical analyses and sensory evaluation. In contrast to fresh MAP cod fillets no significant production of trimethylamine occurred and almost no amine odor and taste were detected during 20 days of chill storage of thawed MAP cod fillets. The use of frozen fillets as raw material not only provides a more stable product in MAP but also allows much greater flexibility for production and distribution. However, a slightly increased concentration of dimethylamine, a larger drip loss, and detection of weak frozen storage flavor were observed in the thawed MAP cod fillets.
Conservative prediction of time to Clostridium botulinum toxin formation for use with time-temperature indicators to ensure the safety of foods.	Integrating-type time-temperature indicators (TTIs) may be utilized to warn food processors and consumers about storage conditions that may have rendered a food potentially hazardous. As an example of how integrated TTIs could be manufactured to emulate an infinite set of time-temperature situations, a set of conditions which have supported C. botulinum growth and toxin production was compiled. The time-temperature curve representing conservative times required for toxin formation was constructed with data from literature relating to toxin formation as a function of temperature in any media or food product. This set of critical time-temperature data is fit by a conservative empirical relationship that can be used to predict combinations of incubation times and storage temperatures that represent a potential health risk from C. botulinum in foods. A TTI could be constructed to indicate deviation from such a given set of conditions to bring attention to foods that may have been exposed to potentially hazardous temperatures with respect to C. botulinum toxin formation.
Characterization of Escherichia coli strains isolated from man and seafood]	The collection of 100 Escherichia coli strains isolated in clinical samples (30), healthy carriers (30) and seafood (40), was characterized by conventional tests on API 20 E gallery and on specific reactive media. These strains were examined by full biotyping with 10 tests, serotyped using 12 monovalent sera and tested with 11 antibiotics. Six persons harboured higher percentages of resistant E. coli strains than seafood. Primary and secondary biotypes based on the use of four primary tests and six secondary tests were prospected. The most frequently encountered primary biotypes were: biotype 1 (42%), 11 (16%) and 9 (12%). These biotypes belonged to 32 secondary biotypes and 43 complete biotypes. The pathogenic serotypes isolated during this survey were O126B16 (3%), O26B6 (2%), O119B14 (2%), O86B7 (2%), O111B4 (2%), O55B5 (1%), O114K90 (1%) and O128B12 (1%). Two strains of E. coli were enteroinvasive by the test of Sérény. Results suggested that these typing methods may be used for discriminating strains of E. coli.
Irradiation as a method for decontaminating food. A review.	Despite substantial efforts in avoidance of contamination, an upward trend in the number of outbreaks of foodborne illnesses caused by nonsporeforming pathogenic bacteria are reported in many countries. Good hygienic practices can reduce the level of contamination but the most important pathogens cannot presently be eliminated from most farms nor is it possible to eliminate them by primary processing, particularly from those foods which are sold raw. Several decontamination methods exist but the most versatile treatment among them is the processing with ionizing radiation. Decontamination of food by ionizing radiation is a safe, efficient, environmentally clean and energy efficient process. Irradiation is particularly valuable as an endproduct decontamination procedure. Radiation treatment at doses of 2-7 kGy--depending on condition of irradiation and the food--can effectively eliminate potentially pathogenic nonsporeforming bacteria including both long-time recognized pathogens such as Salmonella and Staphylococcus aureus as well as emerging or "new" pathogens such as Campylobacter, Listeria monocytogenes or Escherichia coli O157:H7 from suspected food products without affecting sensory, nutritional and technical qualities. Candidates of radiation decontamination are mainly poultry and red meat, egg products, and fishery products. It is a unique feature of radiation decontamination that it can also be performed when the food is in a frozen state. With today's demand for high-quality convenience foods, irradiation in combination with other processes holds a promise for enhancing the safety of many minimally processed foods. Radiation decontamination of dry ingredients, herbs and enzyme preparations with doses of 3-10 kGy proved to be a viable alternative to fumigation with microbicidal gases. Radiation treatment at doses of 0.15-0.7 kGy under specific conditions appears to be feasible also for control of many foodborne parasites, thereby making infested foods safe for human consumption. Microorganisms surviving low- and medium-dose radiation treatment are more sensitive to environmental stresses or subsequent food processing treatments than the microflora of unirradiated products. Radiation treatment is an emerging technology in an increasing number of countries and more-and-more clearances on radiation decontaminated foods are issued or expected to be granted in the near future.
