Organotin compounds in the liver tissue of marine mammals from the Polish coast of the Baltic Sea.	Butyltins (BTs) and phenyltins (PhTs) were determined in the livers of marine mammals found by-caught or stranded along the Polish coast of the Baltic Sea. During the investigation an original analytical method was developed. Butyltin compounds were detected in all the liver samples, whereas phenyltins were not detected in any of the samples. The total concentrations of BTs ranged from 43.9 to 7698 ng(Sn) x g(-1) dry weight. Age-related trends to accumulate BTs in immature porpoises were found. At the same time there were no male-female differences in BTs concentrations observed. No statistically significant spatial distribution differences were found between the locations corresponding to the open Baltic Sea waters and inside the Gulf of Gdańsk, which is characterized by high maritime activity. In comparison to butyltin levels in marine mammals from other geographic regions, the samples analyzed indicate a significant degree of tributyltin pollution along the Polish coast of the Baltic Sea. On the basis of a literature review, higher BT levels are usually found in waters close to highly industrialized areas, such as Japan, Hong Kong, and the United States.
Feeding laying hens seal blubber oil: effects on egg yolk incorporation, stereospecific distribution of omega-3 fatty acids, and sensory aspects.	Seventy-two 26-wk-old Single Comb White Leghorn laying hens were randomly assigned to 36 cages (2 per cage) in a 3-orthogonal 4 x 4 latin square, with the fourth row suppressed, to assess the effect of feeding refined seal blubber oil (SBO, containing 22.2% omega-3 fatty acids) on the fatty acid composition and position in the egg yolk lipids. The experiment was conducted over a period of 9 wk. Eggs were collected and numbered, and the weights were recorded for each week and cage. Eggs collected at wk 5 and 9 were used for total lipid, lipid class, fatty acid, and positional analyses. Sensory evaluation was carried out on eggs collected at wk 6 and 7. Feeding SBO at 1.25% led to an increase (P < 0.0001) in the long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCn3PUFA) and a concomitant decrease (P < 0.0001) in arachidonic acid (ARA) in the egg yolk lipids. Yet this amount of SBO in the diet had no effect (P > 0.1) on the sensory attributes of the egg and on production parameters such as egg weight, number of eggs laid, and feed intake (P > 0.05). When feeding SBO in amounts higher than 1.25% proportionately, a plateau effect of the LCn3PUFA content of the eggs was observed. This appears to be because the PUFA content in the sn-2 position of the phospholipids cannot exceed a certain amount. When this amount is reached, the LCn3PUFA will be increasingly stored in triglycerides. The results presented here clearly indicate how eggs can be produced with optimized composition of LCn3PUFA without affecting (P > 0.1) the sensory properties of the eggs. The procedures elaborated herein provide directly applicable consequences for the food industry.
Bis(4-chlorophenyl) sulfone (BCPS) in Swedish marine and fresh water wildlife-a screening study.	Bis(4-chlorophenyl) sulfone (BCPS) is a high production volume chemical (HPVC) applied in thermostable polymers. BCPS has been detected as an environmental contaminant both in Europe and in North America but it is still not a commonly studied pollutant. In this study, three Baltic Sea fish species; herring (Clupea harengus), salmon (Salmo salar) and perch (Perca fluviatilis) from the Swedish coast, and one inland fish species, arctic char (Salvelinus alpinus), were analysed to screen for the occurrence and distribution of BCPS. Salmon and arctic char, were sampled in the early 1970s as well as the late 1990s. Fish eating grey seal (Halichoerus gryphus) and guillemot (Uria aalge) from the Baltic Sea were included to screen for whether BCPS biomagnify or not. The representativeness of the analysed samples for studying bioaccumulation of environmental pollutants was compared through analysis of two well known persistent and bioaccumulating compounds, 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl (CB-153), and 4,4'-DDE. Pooled muscle and blubber samples based on 4-10 individuals were used for analysis, as well as individual samples of grey seal blubber. 2,4,4'-Trichlorodiphenyl sulfone, was synthesised and applied as an internal standard. BCPS was detected in all marine samples but in only one of the fresh water fish samples. The highest BCPS concentrations detected, 1600 and 1900 ng/g lipid weighet (l.w.), were found in muscle from Baltic guillemot. The results indicate that BCPS is bioaccumulated in both grey seal and guillemot, and that the guillemot has higher concentrations of BCPS than the grey seal (50-500 ng/g l.w.). The concentrations found in different species of fish from the Baltic Sea ranged between 15-37 ng/g l.w. and lower concentrations were found in freshwater species (n.d.-1.8 ng/g l.w.). The present study shows that BCPS is found in all investigated species of wildlife but, in most species, still at low concentrations. However, the guillemot has levels in the low ppm range indicating a considerable biomagnification of BCPS in this species.
Endogenous glycogen prevents Ca2+ overload and hypercontracture in harp seal myocardial cells during simulated ischemia.	The purpose of this study was to determine if elevated myocardial glycogen content could obviate Ca(2+) overload and subsequent myocardial injury in the setting of low oxygen and diminished exogenous substrate supplies. Isolated harp seal cardiomyocytes, recognized as having large glycogen stores, were incubated under conditions simulating ischemia (oxygen and substrate deprivation) for 1 h. Rat cardiomyocytes were used for comparison. Freshly isolated seal cardiomyocytes contained approximately 10 times more glycogen than those from rats (479 +/- 39 vs. 48 +/- 5 nmol glucose/mg dry weight (dry wt), mean +/- S.E., n = 6), and during ischemia lactate production was significantly greater in seal compared to rat cardiomyocytes (660 +/- 99 vs. 97 +/- 14 nmol/mg dry wt), while glycogen content decreased both in seal (from 479 +/- 39 to 315 +/- 58 nmol glucose/mg dry wt) and rat cardiomyocytes (from 48 +/- 5 to 18 +/- 5 nmol glucose/mg dry wt). Cellular ATP was well maintained in ischemic seal cardiomyocytes, whereas it showed a 65% decline (from 31 +/- 3 to 11 +/- 1 nmol ATP/mg dry wt) in rat cardiomyocytes. Similarly, total seal cardiomyocyte Ca(2+) content was not affected by ischemia, while Ca(2+) increased from 8.5 +/- 2.0 to 13.3 +/- 2.0 nmol/mg dry wt in ischemic rat myocytes. Rat cardiomyocytes also showed a notable decline in the percentage of rod-shaped cells in response to ischemia (from 66 +/- 4% to 30 +/- 3%), and cell morphology was unaffected in seal incubations. Addition of iodoacetate (IAA, an inhibitor of glycolysis) to seal cardiomyocytes, on top of substrate and oxygen deprivation, reduced the cellular content of ATP by 52.9 +/- 4.4% (from 25 +/- 4 to 11 +/- 2 nmol ATP/mg dry wt) and the percentage of rod-shaped myocytes from 51 +/- 3% to 28 +/- 4%, while total Ca(2+) content was unchanged by these conditions. Seal cardiomyocytes thus tolerate low oxygen conditions better than rat cardiomyocytes. This finding is most likely due to a higher glycolysis rate in seals, fueled by larger myocardial glycogen stores.
Call usage learning in gray seals (Halichoerus grypus).	Call usage learning can be demonstrated on 4 different levels: signaling on command, signaling and refraining from signaling on command, responding to a trained stimulus with a signal from a specific signal class, and responding to the playback of any untrained stimulus with one from the same signal class. Two young gray seals (Halichoerus grypus) were trained successfully to demonstrate the first 2 levels. They also learned to respond to 9 moan stimuli and 9 growl stimuli with vocalizations of the same class (Level 3). However, novel moan and growl stimuli tended to elicit growls. This casts doubt on the possibility that gray seals can reach the 4th level, but it demonstrates that they are capable of the first 3 levels of usage learning.
Evaluation of a commercial DNA probe assay for the identification of clinical isolates of Blastomyces dermatitidis from dogs.	A DNA probe assay (AccuProbe, Gen-Probe, Inc., San Diego, CA) for culture confirmation of Blastomyces dermatitidis in clinical isolates was evaluated using 72 isolates of B. dermatitidis (62 dog isolates, five from other animals, four human isolates and one soil isolate). In addition, specificity determinations were performed using 28 American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) fungal isolates, other than B. dermatitidis, representing 21 different genera. The non-isotopic hybrid protection assay, that can be performed in less than 1 h, uses a chemiluminescent acridinium ester DNA probe that is homologous to ribosomal RNA sequences of B. dermatitidis. Positive results were obtained with all 72 B. dermatitidis isolates (100% sensitivity). In addition, no positive results were evidenced with the other 28 non-B. dermatitidis fungal isolates, including six strains of Histoplasma capsulatum (100% specificity).
The dental pathology of northern elephant seals (Mirounga angustirostris).	Skulls (n=104) of northern elephant seals from California were examined macroscopically. The animals varied in age but the numbers of each sex were roughly equal. The majority (86%) of teeth were available for examination. The mandibular first premolars were the most common teeth to be congenitally absent, with 2.3% missing. Supernumerary teeth (usually a supplemental mandibular molar) were associated with only 1.4% of normal teeth (or empty alveolar sockets). At least one persistent deciduous tooth was present in 38% of skulls, 70% of which were juvenile skulls. The majority (95.8%) of premolars had the type 2a tooth form, with only 3.8% and 0.5% of type 2b and 2c, respectively. Forty-six skulls, of which 43 were from adults, showed signs of attrition. Tooth fractures were uncommon, affecting only 33 teeth (1.2%). One skull showed an "incremental line" suggestive of enamel hypoplasia. Periodontal hard tissue lesions were seen in 44.3% of all teeth present (46.0% of skulls). Six cases of periapical disease with bone loss were observed.
Investigations on course and outcome of phocine distemper virus infection in harbour seals (Phoca vitulina) exposed to polychlorinated biphenyls. Virological and serological investigations.	The influence of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) on phocine distemper virus (PDV) infections in harbour seals (Phoca vitulina) was studied. Six out of ten seals had been conditioned with a defined mixture of PCB-congeners for several weeks. Following exposure to the cell culture-propagated PDV isolate 2558/Han 88 the complete clinical picture of "1988 seal plague" was provoked in all ten seals inoculated. Four out of six PCB-conditioned seals and two out of four seals not loaded with PCBs succumbed to the infection within three weeks post inoculation. With regard to the clinical course, duration of cell-associated viremia, PDV-antigen distribution in tissues of fatally infected seals and the humoral immune response to PDV no differences between PCB-loaded and unloaded seals were recognized. Evidence was obtained that the pathogenesis of experimental PDV-infection in harbour seals shares some features with those of canine distemper in terrestrial carnivores. In contrast, however, to experimental distemper infection of gnotobiotic dogs prompt development of high titres of PDV-specific IgG did not correlate with recovery from infection.
The pathology of phocine distemper.	The gross and microscopic pathology of phocine distemper is described. The most striking features were pulmonary congestion and emphysema associated with proliferation of type II pneumocytes, often forming syncytia. Secondary bacterial infection was common and associated with marked atrophy of lymphoid tissues and degenerative changes in the mucosa of the airways.
Molecular and serological studies on the recent seal virus epizootics in Europe and Siberia.	The virus epizootics which occurred in seals in both Europe and Siberia during 1987/1988 were caused by two different morbilliviruses, referred to as phocid distemper virus (PDV) 1 and 2, respectively. Molecular and serological studies have shown that the European virus is quite distinct from canine distemper virus (CDV), its closest relative in the morbillivirus group. Analysis of tissues obtained from infected seals from a wide geographical distribution over Northern Europe showed that the infectious agent (PDV 1) was identical in all cases. Nucleotide sequence analysis of one of the virus genes suggested that this virus has evolved away from CDV over a long time period and is most probably an enzootic virus of marine mammals. In contrast, the virus (PDV 2) which caused the deaths of many Siberian seals was indistinguishable, both serologically and at the molecular level, from CDV and must have originated from a land source.
Plasma thymulin concentrations, the thymus and organochlorine contaminant levels in seals infected with phocine distemper virus.	Blood samples collected from live common seals (Phoca vitulina) and grey seals (Halichoerus grypus) around the coast of Scotland and Northern Ireland during, and immediately after, an epizootic caused by phocid distemper virus (PDV) were analysed for thymulin content. Thymulin levels were compared with neutralization titres and concentrations of organochlorine contaminants (DDT and its metabolites, seven chlorinated biphenyl congeners) derived from blood and blubber samples collected from the same animals and analysed independently. Thymulin levels in grey seals (mean 2827 +/- 1355 fg/ml) were negatively correlated with the logarithm of virus neutralization titre. In common seals they varied significantly between age classes. There was no direct relationship between thymulin levels and contaminant levels in either species. However, when an estimate of time since exposure was included in the regression analysis for common seals, there was a highly significant relationship between thymulin and the two chlorinated biphenyl congeners with the highest concentrations in blubber.
Organochlorine levels in common seals (Phoca vitulina) which were victims and survivors of the 1988 phocine distemper epizootic.	We compared concentrations of organochlorines in the blubber of common seals (Phoca vitulina) found dead during the 1988 phocine distemper epizootic with levels in animals which survived it. There were highly significant differences between the live and dead animals, and between sample sites. These were not fully accounted for by seasonal and condition-related changes in blubber thickness.
Quantitative investigations of the epidemiology of phocine distemper virus (PDV) in European common seal populations.	This paper uses simple mathematical models to examine the long-term dynamic consequences of the 1988 epizootic of phocine distemper virus (PDV) infection in Northern European common seal populations. In a preliminary analysis of single outbreaks of infection deterministic compartmental models are used to estimate feasible ranges for the transmission rate of the infection and the level of disease-induced mortality. These results also indicate that the level of transmission in 1988 was probably sufficient to eradicate the infection throughout the Northern European common seal populations by the end of the first outbreak. An analysis of longer-term infection dynamics, which takes account of the density-dependent recovery of seal population levels, corroborates this finding. It also indicates that a reintroduction of the virus would be unlikely to cause an outbreak on the scale of the 1988 epizootic until the seal population had recovered for at least 10 years. The general ecological implications of these results are discussed.
Tissue concentrations of organochlorine compounds in common seals from the coast of Northern Ireland.	An epizootic of morbillivirus infection killed several hundred common seals (Phoca vitulina) along the coast of Northern Ireland in 1988. Many dead and moribund seals were submitted to the Department of Agriculture for Northern Ireland, Veterinary Research Laboratories for necropsy. Samples of blubber, liver and kidney were collected from these animals (n = 55) for analysis for a wide range of organochlorine pesticides and also total polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). The organochlorines found in highest concentrations in blubber were PCBs which were detected in all samples (mean, 26 micrograms g-1 wet wt). sigma DDT (mean, 2.63 micrograms g-1 wet wt) and chlordane (mean, 0.22 micrograms g-1 wet wt) were also present in all samples. Heptachlor including heptachlor epoxide (mean, 0.13 micrograms g-1 wet wt) was present in over 93% of samples. Seventy-four percent of samples contained alpha HCH (mean, 0.035 micrograms g-1 wet wt), 50% contained beta HCH (mean, 0.026 micrograms g-1 wet wt) while gamma HCH (mean, 0.012 micrograms g-1 wet wt) was detected in 46% of samples. The organochlorine concentrations found in this study are at the lower end of the range previously reported for European common seals.
The descriptive epizootiology of phocine distemper in the UK during 1988/89.	The 'time, place, individual' approach, widely used in characterising human epidemics, was applied to the 1988 phocine distemper virus (PDV) epizootic affecting North Sea seals. Estimates of time of death from 157 (69%) of the 228 dead seals necropsied in 1988 indicated that the number of carcasses which were found more than 14 days post mortem increased as the epizootic progressed. Although information provided by epizootic curves based on when and where carcasses were reported are affected by the accuracy of such data, the PDV epizootic curves were characteristic of a propagative epidemic. The individual characteristics of the carcasses provided more useful information. 1. Common seals were more susceptible than grey seals. 2. Males and older seals had a greater exposure to the virus than females and younger animals. 3. The likelihood of viral transmission was greater on land. Seasonal, sex and age related variation in haul-out behaviour affected transmission probabilities and rates. 4. The risk of infection for a susceptible individual during August was higher for seals in England and Northern Ireland than for those in Scotland. These findings illustrate the importance of population characteristics including behaviour and social organisation in determining the pattern and spread of wildlife epizootics.
Phocine distemper virus outbreak in the Moray Firth common seal population: an estimate of mortality.	Changes in abundance at haul-out sites were followed, and data on the number of deaths collected, to describe the pattern and extent of mortality resulting from the 1988 phocine distemper virus outbreak in the Moray Firth common seal population. Mortality in this population was estimated to be between 10% and 20%, and was low in comparison to some other parts of the North Sea. Most deaths occurred in the 3-month period from 1st August 1988, and there was no sign of a resurgence of the disease during the 1989 breeding season or moult.
Disease conditions affecting common seals (Phoca vitulina) around the Scottish mainland, September-November 1988.	Common seal populations around the Scottish coast were less severly devastated by phocine distemper than those on the Continent. Nevertheless, over a 4-month period, 59 common seals were examined postmortem. The macroscopic and histopathological lesions are described. Forty-two per cent of these seals were considered to be suffering from phocine distemper. Serology on 29 of the 59 seals was undertaken and the results are discussed in relation to the histopathological findings. Bordetella bronchiseptica proved to be an important secondary invader in phocine distemper virus infected seals. Verminous pneumonia was shown to be a frequent problem, particularly in juveniles.
Immune responses in common and grey seals during the seal epizootic.	Serological surveys of common and grey seals were performed to monitor the spread of the phocid distemper outbreak in 1988 and its effects on the host immune response. The disease affected mainly common seals; grey seals were largely unaffected but did have anti-CDV antibodies which developed during 1988. Canadian seals, both common and grey, showed evidence of a morbillivirus infection but without the apparent mortality observed in British common seals. Common seal circulating immunoglobulin levels were not greatly affected during the outbreak, although there was some reduction in the most severely affected pups. Vaccination of common seals with CDV antigens elicited high titres of antibodies and produced clinical protection. Vertical transmission of host immunity was shown in grey seals although the longevity of protection has not been determined. The large population of common seals which are not immune emphasises that such an epizootic could have serious consequences again in the future.
The role of bacteria in phocine distemper.	The death of many seals believed to be infected with phocine distemper virus was found to be associated with a variety of mainly opportunistic bacterial pathogens. The bacteria most frequently involved were Bordetella bronchiseptica, Corynebacterium species and a variety of Streptococci. Seals dying on different parts of the coast of Britain were infected with these organisms in differing proportions.
Demonstration of antibodies in archival sera from Canadian seals reactive with a European isolate of phocine distemper virus.	Sera from seals infected during the 1988 European epizootic of phocine distemper virus and sera from Canadian seals collected since 1972 have been tested for the presence of antibodies to morbillivirus. Approximately one third of the Canadian sera have been shown to contain anti-morbillivirus antibodies; the possibility that these populations of seals provided a source of infection for European seals is discussed.
The nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequence of the M gene of phocid distemper virus (PDV). The most conserved protein of morbilliviruses shows a uniquely close relationship between PDV and canine distemper virus.	The nucleotide sequence of the matrix gene (M) of a recently identified morbillivirus, phocid distemper virus (PDV), was determined and the amino acid composition deduced. The M gene of PDV shared many characteristics with the corresponding gene in other morbilliviruses. The nucleotide homology with the closely related canine distemper virus (CDV) was maximum at 67% followed by measles virus (MV) (58%) and rinderpest virus (RPV) (56%). The length of the 5' long untranslated region of PDV (408) was similar to that of CDV (406) but was somewhat shorter than that of MV (425) and RPV (437). The deduced matrix protein of PDV showed structural characteristics similar to the corresponding proteins of other morbilliviruses. PDV and CDV M proteins showed a remarkably high amino acid homology of 90%. The percent amino acid homology among other morbilliviruses was between 73-77%. The M protein was the most highly conserved protein among all morbilliviruses viral components.
Effects of feeding sunflower oil or seal blubber oil to horses with recurrent airway obstruction.	A crossover feeding trial was performed with 9 horses suffering from recurrent airway obstruction (RAO). The study aimed to determine whether ingestion of sunflower oil (SFO), rich in linoleic acid, or seal blubber oil (SBO), a source of long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC n-3 PUFAs), changes the fatty acid (FA) ratios in plasma and leukocyte membrane phospholipids (PLs) or the leukocyte numbers or proportions of cell types in the airways. We also investigated diet-related changes in respiratory rate, maximum change in pleural pressure (deltaPpl(max)), dynamic compliance (C(dyn)), and pulmonary resistance (RL). Each animal was fed hay and oats supplemented with 320 mg/kg body weight (BW) of either SFO or SBO for 10 wk. Before and after the feeding periods, we performed FA analyses, cytologic testing of the pulmonary epithelial lining fluid (PELF), clinical scoring, and pulmonary function testing. The results demonstrated that supplementary FAs were readily ingested and incorporated into leukocyte cell membranes. The n-6:n-3 FA ratios in plasma and leukocyte PLs were reduced after SBO supplementation, as were the PELF leukocyte counts (P < 0.05). On the other hand, pulmonary function and clinical signs were not markedly changed by the different dietary FAs. These results indicate a possible influence of dietary n-3 PUFAs on the pulmonary inflammation of horses with RAO. Further studies are warranted to address effects on inflammatory mediators and clinical outcome.
Methylsulfonyl PCB and DDE metabolites and their enantioselective gas chromatographic separation in human adipose tissues, seal blubber and pelican muscle.	In the present investigation, eleven human adipose tissue samples, two seal blubber samples and two pelican muscles samples were analyzed with regard to their concentrations of PCB parent compounds as well as to the respective chiral methylsulfonyl metabolites 3-MeSO2-CB 91, 4-MeSO2-CB 91, 3-MeSO2-CB 95, 4-MeSO2-CB 95, 3-MeSO2-CB 149, 4-MeSO2-CB 149, 3-MeSO2-CB 132, 4-MeSO2-CB 132, 3-MeSO2-CB 174, and 4-MeSO2-CB 174 and the achiral metabolites 3-MeSO2-CB 49, 4-MeSO2-CB 49, 3-MeSO2-CB 101, 4-MeSO2-CB 101, 3-MeSO2-CB 110, 4-MeSO2-CB 110 and 3-MeSO2-DDE. In order to verify enantioselective transformation processes and to compare the different enzymatic transformation pathways in birds and mammals, the enantioselective excesses of the chiral PCB-metabolites were determined by enantioselective gas chromatography with electron capture and mass spectrometric detection using modified cyclodextrin phases, including heptakis(2,3-di-O-methyl-6-O-tert-butyldimethylsilyl-)-beta-cyclodextrin/OV1701 (1:1) for the parent PCBs and heptakis(2,3-di-O-methyl-6-O-tert-butyldimethylsilyl-)-beta-cyclodextrin/SE52 (1:4) for the metabolites, respectively.
Urate nephrolithiasis in a northern elephant seal (Mirounga angustirostris) and a California sea lion (Zalophus californianus).	Nephrolithiasis has rarely been reported in marine mammals. During 2004 and 2005, two cases of nephrolithiasis were diagnosed during routine necropsy examination, one in a northern elephant seal (Mirounga angustirostris) and one in a California sea lion (Zalophus californianus). Nephroliths were found throughout both kidneys during necropsy examination, varying in size from 1-10 mm in diameter in the northern elephant seal and from 1-15 mm in diameter in the California sea lion. Necropsy and histopathology revealed nephroliths in association with renal pelvic dilation and pyelonephritis in both animals. In addition, hydronephrosis was noted in the sea lion. Nephroliths were composed of uric acid and ammonium urate in the northern elephant seal and of ammonium urate in the California sea lion. The underlying disease leading to nephrolith formation was not determined; however, it is hypothesized that unknown metabolic derangements due to morphologic or physiologic differences may have played a role. This is the first report of urate nephrolithiasis in the California sea lion and northern elephant seal.
Effect of polymyxin B and environmental conditions on isolation of Brucella species and the vaccine strain RB51.	Brucella are resistant to polymyxin B (PB), but their relative susceptibility to PB and its derivative, colistin (COL) has not been rigorously or systematically studied. Comparative susceptibility of Brucella reference strains, vaccine strain RB51, and Brucella isolates from marine mammals to these two cationic peptides were determined by Etest. Vast differences among Brucella species were found in susceptibility to both PB and COL. Brucella demonstrated similar pattern of relative susceptibility to PB as that of COL, but they were less susceptible to COL. Both B. melitensis and B. suis were the least susceptible to polymyxins and rough strains were more susceptible to both PB and COL than the smooth except for the BvrR mutant. Strains were generally less susceptible to PB when cultured in CO(2) rather than ambient air; some became more susceptible in acidified medium. Results show that environment cultural conditions must be considered when selecting for CO(2)-independent strains of Brucella especially the vaccine strain RB51 on selective media containing PB. Our observations extend basic knowledge of the differential resistance of Brucella to polymyxins.
Effect of enzymatic randomization on positional distribution and stability of seal blubber and menhaden oils.	In an effort to investigate the effect of positional distribution on oxidative stability of menhaden and seal blubber oils, Novozyme 435 was used as a random biocatalyst. Positional distribution of fatty acids was determined using gas chromatography. As some of the α-tocopherol was lost during randomization, its content was adjusted to the level prior to the process to eliminate this effect on oxidative stability of oils tested. Conjugated dienes (CD) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) were used as indicators of oxidative stability. The results showed that the polyunsaturated fatty acids were distributed predominantly at terminal positions in randomized menhaden oil, whereas they were distributed more evenly among all positions in enzymatically randomized seal blubber oil, compared to their unrandomized counterparts. Results of CD and TBARS values indicated that randomized menhaden oil was more stable than the original oil, whereas randomized seal blubber oil was more vulnerable to oxidation compared to its counterpart. Changes of oxidative stability after randomization were mainly due to positional redistribution of fatty acids, especially those of the polyunsaturated types.
Overturning conclusions of Lévy flight movement patterns by fishing boats and foraging animals.	A surprisingly diverse variety of foragers have previously been concluded to exhibit movement patterns known as Lévy flights, a special type of random walk. These foragers range in size from microzooplankton in experiments to fishermen in the Pacific Ocean and the North Sea. The Lévy flight conclusion implies that all the foragers have similar scale-free movement patterns that can be described by a single dimensionless parameter, the exponent micro of a power-law (Pareto) distribution. However, the previous conclusions have been made using methods that have since been shown to be problematic: inaccurate techniques were used to estimate micro, and the power-law distribution was usually assumed to hold without testing any alternative hypotheses. Therefore, I address the open question of whether the previous data still support the Lévy flight hypothesis, and thus determine whether Lévy flights really are so ubiquitous in ecology. I present a comprehensive reanalysis of 17 data sets from seven previous studies for which Lévy flight behavior had been concluded, covering marine, terrestrial, and experimental systems from four continents. I use the modern likelihood and Akaike weights approach to test whether simple alternative models are more supported by the data than Lévy flights. The previously estimated values of the power-law exponent micro do not match those calculated here using the accurate likelihood approach, and almost all of them lie outside of the likelihood-based 95% confidence intervals. Furthermore, the original power-law Lévy flight model is overwhelmingly rejected for 16 out of the 17 data sets when tested against three other simple models. For one data set, the data are consistent with coming from a bounded power-law distribution (a truncated Lévy flight). For three other data sets, an exponential distribution corresponding to a simple Poisson process is suitable. Thus, Lévy flight movement patterns are not the common phenomena that was once thought, and are not suitable for use as ecosystem indicators for fisheries management, as has been proposed.
Cumulative human impacts on marine predators.	Stressors associated with human activities interact in complex ways to affect marine ecosystems, yet we lack spatially explicit assessments of cumulative impacts on ecologically and economically key components such as marine predators. Here we develop a metric of cumulative utilization and impact (CUI) on marine predators by combining electronic tracking data of eight protected predator species (n=685 individuals) in the California Current Ecosystem with data on 24 anthropogenic stressors. We show significant variation in CUI with some of the highest impacts within US National Marine Sanctuaries. High variation in underlying species and cumulative impact distributions means that neither alone is sufficient for effective spatial management. Instead, comprehensive management approaches accounting for both cumulative human impacts and trade-offs among multiple stressors must be applied in planning the use of marine resources. 
Satellites, the all-seeing eyes in the sky: counting elephant seals from space.	Regular censuses are fundamental for the management of animal populations but, are logistically challenging for species living in remote regions. The advent of readily accessible, high resolution satellite images of earth mean that it is possible to resolve relatively small (0.6 m) objects, sufficient to discern large animals. To illustrate how these advances can be used to count animals in remote regions, individual elephant seals (Mirounga leonina) were counted using satellite imagery. We used an image taken on 10/10/2011 to count elephant seals (n = 1790 ± 306 (95%CL)) on the isthmus of Macquarie Island, an estimate which overlapped with concurrent ground counts (n = 1991). The number of individuals per harem estimated using the two approaches were highly correlated, with a slope close to one and the estimated intercept also encompassing zero. This proof of concept opens the way for satellites to be used as a standard censusing technique for inaccessible and cryptically coloured species. Quantifying the population trends of higher order predators provides an especially informative and tractable indicator of ecosystem health.
Enantiomer-selective and quantitative trace analysis of selected persistent organic pollutants (POP) in traditional food from western Greenland.	Enantiomeric fractions (EF) are today considered a powerful tool to elucidate selective uptake processes of chiral contaminants in biota. In this study, concentration levels and EF were determined by gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer (GC/MS) for α-hexachlorocyclohexane (α-HCH) and trans-, cis-, and oxychlordane in selected Greenlandic traditional food items, collected at the local market in Nuuk in 2010. The food items selected were raw and smoked fish (salmon and halibut, n = 6), whale meat (n = 8), seal meat (n = 2) and narwhal mattak (skin and blubber, n = 6). The EF were nonracemic (≠0.5) for all samples except for α-HCH in narwhal, trans-chlordane in whale and smoked salmon, and cis- and oxychlordane in seal. The EF for α-HCH were significant for all fish samples, but not for mammalian samples. Data indicate that different uptake and/or transformation mechanisms may be responsible for nonracemic distributions of chiral pesticides in mammals and fish species analyzed. There were no general enantiomer-selective transformation/accumulation trends found for chlordanes. Data indicate that enantiomer-specific properties are an important prerequisite for interaction of chiral contaminant with internal metabolic processes. However, marked differences within these groups were identified. The EF in ringed seals were racemic for most of the analyzed pesticides (i.e., chlordanes). However, narwhal were characterized by nonracemic EF for all chiral pesticides analyzed. Median levels of α-HCH ranged from 2 to 24 ng/g lw and from 15.1 to 626.6 ng/g lw for trans-nonachlor, with lowest levels observed in smoked salmon and highest levels in narwhal mattak. This study confirmed that concentration levels of analyzed pesticides in the investigated food items were below the tolerable daily intake (TDI) threshold. 
Keratinophilic fungi isolated from Antarctic soil.	In the present study, 10 soil samples were collected aseptically from an equal number of areas of the Antarctic in the zone occupied by the 1986-1987 Italian expedition for research on keratinophilic fungi. Of particular interest was the isolation of a pathogenic fungus, Microsporum gypseum, from two sites in the base camp occupied by men and by skuas. Trichophyton terrestre was isolated from a site in which people worked and through which penguins and skuas passed. The most widespread fungal species were members of the genus Chrysosporium. Some of these species were isolated but not identified and this part of the study was still be completed. Another significant finding was the absence of fungi in one sample, while in another the widespread and abundant growth in all the seeded dishes of a single species of Chrysosporium. Other species in genera of general diffusion in many environments were also isolated: Aspergillus spp., Malbranchea sp., Mycelia sterilia spp., Paecilomyces sp., Penicillium spp. and Scopulariopsis spp.
Capillary configuration in contracted muscles: comparative aspects.	We compared the degree of orientation (anisotropy) of capillaries in skeletal muscles of animals with large differences in oxygen needs and/or tolerance to hypoxia (mammals of different size; reptiles; birds; mammals native to high altitude; diving mammals). In terrestrial mammals, we found a substantial increase in capillary tortuosity with fiber shortening, in muscles with large differences in capillary density (capillary counts/fiber mm2 in transverse sections ranging 450-4350). There was no systematic difference in muscle capillary tortuosity with body size (mouse to pony), or with adaptation to high altitude (deer mice) or to prolonged periods of anoxia (Harbor seals), when account was taken of sarcomere length. A substantial increase in capillary tortuosity was also found in contracted skeletal muscles of the alligator with remarkably low capillary density (capillary counts/fiber mm2 in transverse sections, 120-280). On the contrary, we found that in pigeon pectoralis, a highly aerobic muscle with large capillary density and a large number of capillary anastomoses running perpendicular to the muscle fiber axis, the decrease in capillary anisotropy with decreasing sarcomere length was smaller than in other muscles. Our results indicate that 1) sarcomere length at which samples are fixed needs to be taken into account when capillary counts in transverse sections are compared between muscles and/or after different experimental conditions, and 2) muscle capillary tortuosity is a consequence of fiber shortening, rather than an indicator of the O2 requirements of the tissue.
Prolonged and multiple immobilizations of the southern elephant seal using ketamine hydrochloride-xylazine hydrochloride or ketamine hydrochloride-diazepam combinations.	Thirty seven southern elephant seals (Mirounga leonina) were singularly or repeatedly immobilized with combinations of ketamine hydrochloride (HCl) and xylazine HCl or ketamine HCl and diazepam. Atropine sulphate was included in the drug combinations. To permit experimental procedures the seals were immobilized for periods of 30-330 min. The mean induction dose of ketamine HCl was 8.71 +/- 0.25 mg/kg (mean +/- SE). The mean induction time was 16.02 +/- 2.62 min. For the elephant seals immobilized for periods in excess of 180 min, the mean dose of ketamine HCl used per hr was 3.31 +/- 0.13 mg/kg/hr and the mean dose of ketamine HCl used per hr postinduction was 1.31 +/- 0.15 mg/kg/hr. The mean dose of diazepam used was 0.09 +/- 0.01 mg/kg and the mean dose of xylazine HCl was 0.41 +/- 0.01 mg/kg. Elephant seals were weighed on 20 occasions (weight range: 897-1,932 kg) and the relationship between standard length and weight was found to be: Weight = 9.98 length - 2,317.63 (r2 = 0.724). Adverse reactions to seals immobilized only once or twice were not observed. Two seals immobilized on three occasions developed abscesses at the site of injection.
A protein, VPg, covalently linked to 36S calicivirus RNA.	Proteins associated with 36S virus RNA from Vero cells infected with San Miguel sea lion virus, type 2 (SMSV-2), were labelled with 125I. One protein, VPg, remained linked to RNA when subjected to deproteinization techniques. VPg labelled wtih 32P was observed on 36S RNA from purified virions; the quantity of label was compatible with two phosphates per genome. The estimated mol. wt. of SMSV-2 VPg was 15 000.
Organochlorine residues in two seal species from western Iceland.	Harbour seals and grey seals from Faxaflói (Western Iceland) were analyzed for contamination with organochlorines (HCB, PCBs, p,p'-DDT,p,p'-DDE, chlordanes and the enantiomers of alpha-HCH). Although the values strongly varied, both harbour seals and grey seals on averaged showed comparable levels of PCBs, p,p'-DDT, p,p'-DDE and alpha-HCH, as well as chlordanes (sigma CD). Differences were measured in the HCB content of the seal species. The HCB/alpha-HCH ratio in harbour seals was < 1 and in grey seals > 1. The results from seals on Iceland were compared with data derived from seal samples of the Antarctic, the Arctic (Spitzbergen) and the North Sea (Germany) in order to give an insight into the global distribution of pollution with chlorinated organics.
Lower prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance and diabetes associated with daily seal oil or salmon consumption among Alaska Natives.	To examine the association of seal oil and salmon consumption with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) among Alaska Natives.
An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for the detection of marine caliciviruses.	An indirect, sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the detection of antigens of vesicular exanthema, San Miguel sea lion viruses and other marine caliciviruses is described. The assay which uses rabbit and guinea-pig antisera to purified antigens of each calicivirus serotype has high sensitivity and is almost totally type-specific.
Use of a repetitive element isolated from Mycobacterium tuberculosis in hybridization studies with Mycobacterium bovis: a new tool for epidemiological studies of bovine tuberculosis.	Typing of M. bovis isolates for epidemiological purposes is possible using restriction endonuclease analysis (REA). However, the DNA fragment patterns obtained are complex and difficult to analyse due to the large number of bands produced. In an attempt to develop a less complicated typing scheme two DNA probes were used in hybridization studies to detect restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLP) in M. bovis. An oligonucleotide probe which matches part of the insertion sequence IS6110 produced few bands and failed to discriminate between bovine isolates of M. bovis. A probe prepared from a highly repeated DNA sequence, cloned from M. tuberculosis when used on southern blots of AluI digested M. bovis DNA, resulted in a discriminating typing scheme which was easier to perform and analyse than the REA. The RFLP typing scheme identified 27 different strains from a total of 36 isolates of M. bovis and 7 reference strains from the M. tuberculosis complex. Using REA, 24 types were identified using BclI and PvuII digests and 23 different types using BstEII digests. When results of all 3 enzyme digests were combined, the REA identified 27 types from the same strains. Ten isolates of M. bovis from 5 properties involved in an outbreak of bovine tuberculosis were all identified as the same type with both techniques.
Disease and injury in the southern elephant seal.	Disease and injury was recorded in 170 tagged soughern elephant seals (Mirounga leonina) on the Antarctic continent. Trauma due to interspecific predation was the most common disorder. No small seals were observed with lesions attributable to this in the Antarctic population. This finding differs from data recorded in a sub-Antarctic (Macquarie Island) population where seals of all class sizes exhibit lesions due to interspecific trauma. No external parasites were observed in the Antarctic population.
On urea formation in marine mammals.	Ornithine carbamoyltransferase (EC 2.1.3.3) has been determined in homogenates of liver of the sei whale (Balaenoptera borealis), the bottle-nose dolphin (porpoise) (Tursiops truncatus) and California sea lion (Zalophus californianus). These marine mammals show levels of this ornithine-urea cycle enzyme which are typical of terrestrial mammals.
An overview of exposure to, and effects of, petroleum oil and organochlorine pollution in grey seals (Halichoerus grypus).	Most incidences involving oil pollution of grey seals (Halichoerus grypus) seem to have occurred at the breeding sites. Because of the high concentration of animals at this time, even small oil spills will pollute many animals. As a result of chronic low-level pollution from coastal ship traffic and discharges from offshore petroleum activity in the North Sea, approximately 50% of the grey seal pups at the largest breeding colony in Norway are polluted each year by oil. In this case, as well as in other similar cases of spills at breeding colonies, oil has produced little visible disturbance to the seals behaviour and there has been little mortality. The effects and mortality may, however, be more serious following a spill of crude oil, where animals may be affected by inhalation of toxic volatile compounds. High body burdens of PCBs and DDTs seem to have caused skull-bone lesions and occlusions of the uteri in grey seals in the Baltic Sea. Exposure to these persistent compounds has also been suspected to be the cause of reduction in the population of Baltic grey seals. There are indications that thyroid hormone and vitamin A status of grey seal pups are affected by the low exposure concentrations experienced at the Norwegian coast (approximately 1/20 of the concentration detected in grey seal pups from the Baltic Sea). This gives serious cause for concern about the effects that chronic low-level exposure to persistent organochlorine pollutants may have on individuals and on populations of grey seals.
The impact of the 1993 Braer oil spill on grey seals in Shetland.	Signs of acute respiratory distress were reported in moulting grey seals (Halichoerus grypus) hauled out on Lady's Holm, Shetland, following the Braer oil spill in January, 1993. Behavioural observations carried out between 16 January and 13 February 1993 showed that the proportion of animals exhibiting a discharge of nasal mucus was significantly higher than the proportion at a control site in the north (Papa Stour). The proportion of animals affected on Lady's Holm increased for up to one month following the spill. However, the time lag between exposure and peak response was approximately 30 days, longer than may be expected for an acute effect. The proportion of non-specific signs of respiratory distress in unexposed Shetland seals was assessed from observations made between 16 January and 25 January 1994. Symptoms similar to those seen in 1993 were also reported during this period, but the proportion of affected animals was higher in 1993. Symptoms were not observed at a grey seal moult site on the east coast of England in March 1993 and 1994. Grey seals moulting in Shetland during the time of the oil spill may have been acutely affected by exposure to hydrocarbons, but without sufficient baseline data on the occurrence of respiratory distress in grey seals it is difficult to determine the proportion attributable to other causes.
Lead, cadmium, mercury and selenium in Greenland marine animals.	Baseline concentrations of lead, cadmium, mercury and selenium are reported from different tissues in marine organisms from Greenland. Overall, lead levels in marine organisms from Greenland are low, whereas cadmium, mercury and selenium levels are high. Tissue differences are not very distinct for lead, whereas the opposite is the case for cadmium and mercury. Selenium shows an intermediate behaviour in this respect. In general, lead concentrations do not correlate with the age/size of animals, whereas cadmium, mercury and selenium increase with age/size of most species and tissues analysed. No clear conclusions can be drawn in relation to geographical differences in lead, mercury and selenium concentration in Greenland. In general, cadmium levels are higher in Northwest Greenland compared to southern areas. Local differences with increasing cadmium levels from inner fjords to the open sea in stationary species may be of the same order of magnitude as those observed over long distances in Greenland. There is no indication that lead and selenium levels increase in higher trophic levels, although this is clearly the case for cadmium and mercury. In almost all cases lead levels in marine organisms from Greenland are well below the Danish food standard limits, however, a substantial proportion of marine mammals and seabirds in Greenland have cadmium and mercury levels exceeding the Danish standard limits. No food standard limits are given for selenium in food, but in some cases human intake of selenium is estimated to be high.
Effects of long-term feeding of marine oils with different positional distribution of eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic acids on lipid metabolism, eicosanoid production, and platelet aggregation in hypercholesterolemic rats.	Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) were distributed mainly in the sn-1,3 positions of seal oil triglyceride and in the sn-2 position of squid oil triglyceride. Seal oil-rich or squid oil-rich fats having constant saturated/monounsaturated/polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) and n-6/n-3 PUFA ratios were fed to exogenously hypercholesterolemic rats for 1 60 d. The control fat contained linoleic acid as the sole PUFA. Before starting the experimental diets, rats were orally treated with high doses of vitamin D for 4 d to accelerate atherogenesis. The percentage of arachidonic acid in phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine of liver, platelets, and aorta was lower in the marine oil groups than in the control group, seal oil being more effective than squid oil. Maximal platelet aggregation induced by collagen was significantly lower in both marine oil groups. Platelet thromboxane (TX) A2 production induced by collagen or thrombin was markedly reduced by feeding seal or squid oils, the reduction being more pronounced in the seal oil than in the squid oil group. Aortic prostacyclin (PGI2) production was the same among the three groups. The ratio of the productions of aortic PGI2 and platelet TXA2 was significantly higher in the seal oil than in the control group. Although there was no difference in intimal thickness among the three groups, the aortic cholesterol content was significantly lower in the marine oil groups than in the control group. These results showed that the main effects in rats of the different intramolecular distributions of EPA and DHA in dietary fats were on arachidonic acid content in tissue phospholipids and on platelet TXA2 production.
