Medical record search engines, using pseudonymised patient identity: an alternative to centralised medical records.	The purpose of our multidisciplinary study was to define a pragmatic and secure alternative to the creation of a national centralised medical record which could gather together the different parts of the medical record of a patient scattered in the different hospitals where he was hospitalised without any risk of breaching confidentiality.
Brief report: consistency of search engine rankings for autism websites.	The World Wide Web is one of the most common methods used by parents to find information on autism spectrum disorders and most consumers find information through search engines such as Google or Bing. However, little is known about how the search engines operate or the consistency of the results that are returned over time. This study presents the results of analyses of searches from 2009, 2010, and 2011 for information on autism. We found that over time, consumers are likely to have different search experiences yielding different results, and we urge consumers to use caution when using the World Wide Web to obtain information on autism.
A domain-based approach for retrieving trustworthy health videos from YouTube.	Health information retrieval and YouTube can be used as powerful tools to improve user's health knowledge. However, YouTube videos must be carefully analysed in order to avoid misleading, inaccurate, obsolete and incorrect health content. We present an approach for re-ranking health videos obtained from YouTube, called Domain-based ranking. Our system automatically identifies videos coming from trusted sources (channels), such as hospitals and health organizations, and re-ranks YouTube results so that such videos are presented first in the ranking list. Video and channel metadata are used to automatically determine if a video is provided by a trusted source. The approach is tested and results show that the amount of relevant and reliable videos ranked within top-10 increase when using Domain-based ranking, compared with the original YouTube ranking. 
A checklist to assess database-hosting platforms for designing and running searches for systematic reviews.	Systematic reviews require literature searches that are precise, sensitive and often complex. Database-hosting platforms need to facilitate this type of searching in order to minimise errors and the risk of bias in the results.
