Comparability of a computer-assisted versus written method for collecting health behavior information from adolescent patients.	To investigate the comparability of health behavior data obtained from adolescents via notebook computer versus those obtained via written questionnaire.
The cushion effect.	The pattern and severity of crash injury depends on a complex interaction of biomechanical factors such as deceleration velocity at impact (delta-V), seat-belt and airbag use, and type of impact. Human body characteristics such as height and weight may play an important role. We hypothesized that body mass index (BMI) will influence crash injury patterns.
Patterns of injury to restrained children in side impact motor vehicle crashes: the side impact syndrome.	Injury patterns among children in frontal collisions have been well documented, but little information exists regarding injuries to children in side impact collisions.
The association between occupant restraint systems and risk of injury in frontal motor vehicle collisions.	An evaluation of seat belt use and airbag deployment, either alone or in combination, on risk of injury to specific body regions has yet to be completed.
Factors associated with the likelihood of injury resulting from collisions between four-wheel drive vehicles and passenger cars.	The specific effects of vehicular type on the likelihood of an injury occurring are relatively unexplored. This study sought to assess the relative risk of injury to occupants of four-wheel drive vehicles and their counterparts in passenger cars. Data for 1143 occupants from all of the 454 crashes in Oklahoma, in 1995 that involved a four-wheel drive vehicle were used. Multiple logistic regression analysis determined the association between potential predictive factors and vehicular injury. Odds ratios revealed occupancy in a passenger car to be a major predictor of the likelihood of injury. Other factors include the driver being female, driving too fast, travel on curved or level roadways, and being hit laterally or from the rear.
Risk factors for motor vehicle collision-related eye injuries.	To evaluate the association between specific occupant, collision, and vehicle characteristics and the risk of motor vehicle collision (MVC)-related eye injury.
Simple models of fatality trends revisited seven years later.	The author's original paper presented simple linear models of fatalities based on data through 1982 and appeared in this journal in 1984. The earlier paper reported good fits through 22 years of fatality counts using population and employment data, after adjusting for the short-term effect of the oil shortage (in 1974) and the long-term effect of the 55 mph speed limit (beginning in 1974). Attempts (reported here) to refit the model through seven additional years were less successful. It may be that the relationships originally reported have changed, that important new factors have been introduced, or that the original fits were partly luck. The recent emphasis on behavioral solutions to safety problems (including programs to decrease alcohol use and increase safety belt use) is one important change, so the effect of the benefits of these programs on the model fits is explored. The original model began to overpredict fatalities just as safety benefits were beginning to accrue from increased safety belt use and decreased driver-alcohol involvement, and both the model overprediction and the benefits of these programs increased over the seven years of data added to the original model. Thus, previous government estimates of the number of lives saved by these behavioral programs are supported by the observed change in the statistical relationship between fatality counts and economic factors.
Occupant injury in longitudinal barrier collisions: effects of restraints.	Longitudinal barriers, such as guardrails, are designed to prevent a vehicle that leaves the roadway from impacting a more dangerous object while minimizing risk of injury to the vehicle occupants. Current full-scale test procedures for these devices do not consider the effect of occupant restraints such as seat belts and airbags. The purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which restraints are used or deployed in longitudinal barrier collisions and their subsequent effect on occupant injury in these collisions. Analyzing national crash data from 1996 through 2005, airbag deployment in longitudinal barrier crashes was found to be 40 percent for all involved vehicles and 68 percent when considering only airbag-equipped vehicles. Seat belt usage rates were approximately 60 and 80 percent for non-airbag-equipped and airbag-equipped vehicles, respectively. Compared to fully restrained occupants, relative risk of injury for no airbag/belted, airbag/unbelted, and no airbag/unbelted occupants was 1.6, 7, and 11.7, respectively. Despite these large differences in relative risk, however, 95 percent of the occupants in the analyzed data were either uninjured or sustained minor injury, which reinforces the overall effectiveness of these roadside devices.
Biomechanical evaluation of occupant anthropometry during frontal collisions.	The present study examines the biomechanical implications of 3-point lap/shoulder seat belts and frontal air bags to the injury probabilities for occupants of varying anthropometry, during frontal collisions. Using Mathematical Dynamic Modeling (MADYMO) software, a variety of simulated frontal crash tests were conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of seat belts and air bags in reducing probability of injury to different sized occupants. The simulations included virtual models of the 5th percentile female, 50th percentile male, and 95th percentile male to represent three occupant size classes. The test matrix paired each of these dummy sizes with four restraint system configurations. The configurations examined were seat belt only, air bag only, both seat belt and air bag, and none. Each of the simulated crashes was modeled to replicate a direct (12 O'clock) frontal collision with a total change in velocity of 56.3kph. Likelihood of serious injury was determined through the calculation of Head Injury Criteria (HIC,36ms), angular acceleration of the head center of gravity, and the Nij neck injury criteria. The results generally suggested that air bags produce a more significant reduction in HIC for larger belted occupants than they do for smaller belted occupants, and that whether belted or not, smaller occupants received the largest reduction in head CG angular acceleration due to the existence of an air bag. Though clear trends were not noted in the neck injury values, it was noted that the simulations with out air bags produced two results that failed the injury criterion, while no serious neck injuries would be expected based on the values produced in the simulations with air bags. The study suggested that a properly timed air bag deployment can reduce injury potential for all occupants of all sizes, but that the magnitude of this benefit is dependent on anthropometry.
Biomechanics of side impact injuries: evaluation of seat belt restraint system, occupant kinematics and injury potential.	Side impact crashes are the second most severe motor vehicle accidents resulting in serious and fatal injuries. One of the occupant restraint systems in the vehicle is the three point lap/shoulder harness. However, the lap/shoulder restraint is not effective in a far-side crash (impact is opposite to the occupant location) since the occupant may slip out of the shoulder harness. The present comprehensive study was designed to delineate the biomechanics of far-side planar crashes. The first part of the study involves a car-to-car crash to study the crash dynamics and occupant kinematics; the second part involves an epidemiological analysis of NASS/CDS 1988-2003 database to study the distribution of serious injury; the third part includes the mathematical MADYMO analysis to study the occupant kinematics in detail; and the fourth part includes an in-depth analysis of a real world far-side accident to delineate the injury mechanism and occupant kinematics. Results indicate that the shoulder harness is ineffective in far-side crashes. The upper torso of the belted driver dummy slips out of the shoulder harness and interacted with the opposite vehicle interior such as the door panel. The unbelted occupants had a similar head injury severity pattern compared to belted occupants. The present study is another step to advance towards better understanding of the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of side impact injuries.
Intelligent seat belt reminders-do they change driver seat belt use in Europe?	Many modern cars have seat belt reminders (SBRs) using loud and clear sound and light signals. These systems have developed over the last few years. This study investigates how these modern systems influence the seat belt use in real-life traffic in built-up areas in some European cities.
Level I trauma center internal campaign to increase safe driving by staff.	A 3-month internal campaign at our trauma center was conducted to improve employee motor vehicle safety and have employees serve as community role models. The injury-prevention coordinator and trauma program manager developed and implemented a campaign of high-visibility events. Effectiveness was evaluated through pre- and postcampaign surveys and seat belt-use observation and observation at 1 year. Although survey responses did not change, observed seat belt use increased significantly from 79% to 87%, with maintenance at 1 year (89%). No direct causal effect can be proven, but the campaign appears to have increased employee seat belt use.
The association between high-risk behavior and central nervous system injuries: analysis of traffic-related fatalities in a large coroner's series.	High-risk behaviors leading to traffic fatalities are often a result of severe traumatic brain and spine injuries. The objective of the study was to analyze patterns of behavior in drivers and motorcyclists that are associated with central nervous system (CNS)-related prehospital deaths that may serve as a basis for future prevention initiatives. Our study group comprised 514 fatalities with severe CNS injuries documented at autopsy. The majority (n = 491) was the result of motor vehicle collisions (MVCs). In this group, male drivers predominated and the majority, 80 per cent, wore seatbelts. Toxicology analysis revealed 53 per cent of drivers with a mean concentration of ethanol above the legal limit. Texting while driving comprised 45 per cent of the study group. Less than 5 per cent of the fatalities were the result of road or weather conditions. In the motorcycle group (n = 23), 100 per cent of the victims were unhelmeted. We report a large autopsy series of CNS-related deaths with analysis of behavioral factors associated with the fatalities. Substance abuse and distracted driving are dominant patterns of high-risk behavior in MVCs and not wearing a motorcycle helmet is deadly for victims of motorcycle crashes. 
Traffic deaths in western Norway. A study from the county of Hordaland 1986-1990.	A series of 133 deaths in traffic in Western Norway has been analysed. There were 116 deaths from accidents, 14 natural deaths and 3 suicides. Ischemic heart disease was the predominant cause of natural death behind the wheel. Single vehicular accidents was the predominating accident type and young males were the most common victims. Influence of alcohol contributed to a substantial number of the accidents. Injuries were classified according to the Injury Severity Scale; the higher age victims had a lower ISS score than the young.
Demographic and socioeconomic correlates of safety belt use.	This study analyzed the relationship between safety belt use rates--as measured by observational surveys at preselected sites--and demographic and socioeconomic characteristics--as reflected by the U.S. Census Bureau data for the sites. The results showed consistent and moderately high associations between observed safety belt use rates and socioeconomic status indicators, primarily home value. Once redundancies among variables were removed, other variables that contributed significantly to explaining differences between high- and low-belt use sites were the percentage of elderly people (55+ years old) and the mix of blue and white collar workers. Sites having high safety belt use rates had higher average home values, a higher percentage of elderly people, and a lower percentage of blue collar workers than sites having low use rates. Simple correlations with belt use rates were also obtained for race, marital status, presence of children in household, education, and income.
