Incorporation of organic tritium (3H) by marine organisms and sediment in the severn estuary/Bristol channel (UK).	Discharges of tritium (3H) into the Severn estuary/Bristol Channel (UK) arise from the authorized release of wastes from nuclear power plants at Hinkley Point and Berkley/Oldbury and from the Nycomed-Amersham radiochemical plant, via the sewer system, at Cardiff. The wastes from the nuclear power plants probably consist almost entirely of 3H2O, whereas those from the radiochemical plant also include uncharacterized 3H labelled organic compounds. The total 3H concentrations in demersal fish and other benthic organisms in the vicinity of the Cardiff Eastern sewer outfall are significantly elevated compared to those observed around other UK nuclear establishments. Concentrations in filtered seawater were approximately 10 Bq kg(-1) whilst levels in surface sediment, seaweed (Fucus vesiculosis) and mussels (Mytilus edulis)/flounder (Platichthys flesus) were in the order of 6 x 10(2), 2 x 10(3), and 10(5) Bq kg(-1) (dry weight), respectively. Almost all the 3H found in sediment and biota were organically bound tritium (OBT). The high concentration in these materials, relative to that in seawater, is due to the presence of bioavailable organic 3H labelled compounds in the radiochemical waste. It is suggested that bioaccumulation of 3H by benthic organisms and demersal fish occurs primarily via a pathway of physico-chemical sorption/bacterial transformation of dissolved 3H labelled organic compounds into particulate organic matter, and subsequent transfer up a web of sediment dwelling microbes and meiofauna. Variations in 3H accumulation between individual organisms have been interpreted in terms of their different feeding behaviour. Relatively low concentrations were observed in the herbivorous winkle (Littorina littorea) and the pelagic Sprat (Spratus spratus) compared with other benthic organisms and demersal fish. The elevated 3H concentrations in seafood, due to bioaccumulation of OBT, have low radiological significance even for the local critical group of seafood consumers.
Fucoxanthin from edible seaweed, Undaria pinnatifida, shows antiobesity effect through UCP1 expression in white adipose tissues.	Mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) is usually expressed only in brown adipose tissue (BAT) and a key molecule for metabolic thermogenesis to avoid an excess of fat accumulation. However, there is little BAT in adult humans. Therefore, UCP1 expression in tissues other than BAT is expected to reduce abdominal fat. Here, we show reduction of abdominal white adipose tissue (WAT) weights in rats and mice by feeding lipids from edible seaweed, Undaria pinnatifida. Clear signals of UCP1 protein and mRNA were detected in WAT of mice fed the Undaria lipids, although there is little expression of UCP1 in WAT of mice fed control diet. The Undaria lipids mainly consisted of glycolipids and seaweed carotenoid, fucoxanthin. In the fucoxanthin-fed mice, WAT weight significantly decreased and UCP1 was clearly expressed in the WAT, while there was no difference in WAT weight and little expression of UCP1 in the glycolipids-fed mice. This result indicates that fucoxanthin upregulates the expression of UCP1 in WAT, which may contribute to reducing WAT weight.
Trends in the spatial and temporal distribution of 129I and 99Tc in coastal waters surrounding Ireland using Fucus vesiculosus as a bio-indicator.	Spatial and temporal trends in (129)I and (99)Tc concentrations around the Irish coastline have been evaluated using Fucus vesiculosus as a bio-indicator. (129)I concentrations in a recent set of seawater samples have also been recorded and reveal an identical spatial pattern. Concentrations of (129)I in Fucus from the northeast coast of Ireland proved to be at least two orders of magnitude higher than concentrations in Fucus from the west coast. The (129)I content of Fucus increased significantly between 1985 and 2003, in line with increases in discharges of (129)I from the Sellafield nuclear reprocessing plant. Similar trends were observed in the case of (99)Tc. (129)I/(99)Tc ratios in Irish seawater were deduced from the Fucus data, and compared to ratios in discharges from Sellafield and from the French reprocessing plant at Cap de la Hague. Levels of (129)I and (99)Tc in Fucus from the west coast were found to be enhanced with respect to levels in seaweeds from other regions in the Northern Hemisphere unaffected by discharges from nuclear installations such as those referred to.
Temperature induced bacterial virulence and bleaching disease in a chemically defended marine macroalga.	Host-pathogen interactions have been widely studied in humans and terrestrial plants, but are much less well explored in marine systems. Here we show that a marine macroalga, Delisea pulchra, utilizes a chemical defence - furanones - to inhibit colonization and infection by a novel bacterial pathogen, Ruegeria sp. R11, and that infection by R11 is temperature dependent. Ruegeria sp. R11 formed biofilms, invaded and bleached furanone-free, but not furanone-producing D. pulchra thalli, at high (24°C) but not low (19°C) temperatures. Bleaching is commonly observed in natural populations of D. pulchra near Sydney, Australia, during the austral summer when ocean temperatures are at their peak and the chemical defences of the alga are reduced. Furanones, produced by D. pulchra as a chemical defence, inhibit quorum sensing (QS) in bacteria, and this may play a role in furanone inhibition of R11 infection of furanone-free thalli as R11 produces QS signals. This interplay between temperature, an algal chemical defence mechanism and bacterial virulence demonstrates the complex impact environmental change can have on an ecosystem.
Habitat phenotyping of two sub-Antarctic flies by metabolic fingerprinting: evidence for a species outside its home?	Metabolic fingerprinting can elucidate rearrangements of metabolic networks in organisms exposed to various environmental conditions. Maintenance of organismal performance occurs by alterations in metabolic fluxes and pathways, resulting in habitat-specific metabolic signatures. Several insects of sub-Antarctic Islands, including the wingless flies Anatalanta aptera and Calycopteryx moseleyi, are exposed to saline organic matter accumulated along littoral margins. However, C. moseleyi has long been considered restricted to a habitat of lower salinity, the Kerguelen cabbage. High C. moseleyi densities identified in saline decaying seaweeds are intriguing, and may involve osmoregulatory adjustments including accumulation of osmoprotectants. In the present work, we examined quantitative metabotypes (metabolic phenotypes) among wild C. moseleyi individuals from seaweeds versus non-saline Kerguelen cabbages. They were compared to metabotypes from wild A. aptera, a common fly on seaweed. Statistical procedures designed to magnify between-class differences failed to clearly separate C. moseleyi metabotypes from cabbage and seaweed, despite contrasted morphotypes, diets, and salinities. A. aptera exhibited higher glycerol, inositol, trehalose, and other osmoprotectants concentrations that may enhance its performance under saline environments. Seaweed may represent a secondary niche in C. moseleyi, promoted by the marked reduction in Kerguelen cabbage frequency subsequent to climate change, and herbivorous pressures caused by rabbit invasion.
A comprehensive study of metal distribution in three main classes of seaweed.	This paper provides one of the most comprehensive studies of metal distributions in three main macroalgae species. In this novel study, levels of total, intracellular and surface bound Pb, Zn, As, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Mn and Ni associated with Polysiphonia lanosa (L) Tandy, Ascophyllum nodosum (L) Le Jolis, Fucus vesiculosus (L) and Ulva sp. were determined. Additionally, water and sediment metal levels were analysed to gain an insight into the relative uptake efficiencies of different macroalgal species. Samples were collected from a clean site in Fethard-on-Sea, Wexford, Ireland (52°11'53.68'N, 6°49'34.64'W), in May 2008. Results demonstrated that total, intracellular and surface bound metal levels varied according to metal and seaweed species, with the highest proportion of metals found to be intracellular. Inhibition of Mn uptake by Zn was indicated for P. lanosa. Furthermore, P. lanosa had enhanced bioaccumulation ability, with the highest Concentration Factor reported of any seaweed to date.
Bacteria of the human gut microbiome catabolize red seaweed glycans with carbohydrate-active enzyme updates from extrinsic microbes.	Humans host an intestinal population of microbes--collectively referred to as the gut microbiome--which encode the carbohydrate active enzymes, or CAZymes, that are absent from the human genome. These CAZymes help to extract energy from recalcitrant polysaccharides. The question then arises as to if and how the microbiome adapts to new carbohydrate sources when modern humans change eating habits. Recent metagenome analysis of microbiomes from healthy American, Japanese, and Spanish populations identified putative CAZymes obtained by horizontal gene transfer from marine bacteria, which suggested that human gut bacteria evolved to degrade algal carbohydrates-for example, consumed in form of sushi. We approached this hypothesis by studying such a polysaccharide utilization locus (PUL) obtained by horizontal gene transfer by the gut bacterium Bacteroides plebeius. Transcriptomic and growth experiments revealed that the PUL responds to the polysaccharide porphyran from red algae, enabling growth on this carbohydrate but not related substrates like agarose and carrageenan. The X-ray crystallographic and biochemical analysis of two proteins encoded by this PUL, BACPLE_01689 and BACPLE_01693, showed that they are β-porphyranases belonging to glycoside hydrolase families 16 and 86, respectively. The product complex of the GH86 at 1.3 Å resolution highlights the molecular details of porphyran hydrolysis by this new porphyranase. Combined, these data establish experimental support for the argument that CAZymes and associated genes obtained from extrinsic microbes add new catabolic functions to the human gut microbiome.
Clinical marine toxicology: a European perspective for clinical toxicologists and poison centers.	Clinical marine toxicology is a rapidly changing area. Many of the new discoveries reported every year in Europe involve ecological disturbances--including global warming--that have induced modifications in the chorology, behavior, and toxicity of many species of venomous or poisonous aquatic life including algae, ascidians, fish and shellfish. These changes have raised a number of public issues associated, e.g., poisoning after ingestion of contaminated seafood, envenomation by fish stings, and exposure to harmful microorganism blooms. The purpose of this review of medical and scientific literature in marine toxicology is to highlight the growing challenges induced by ecological disturbances that confront clinical toxicologists during the everyday job in the European Poison Centers.
Ultrasound-enhanced rapid in situ transesterification of marine macroalgae Enteromorpha compressa for biodiesel production.	In situ transesterification of Enteromorpha compressa algal biomass was carried out for the production of biodiesel. The maximum methyl esters (ME) yield of 98.89% was obtained using ultrasonic irradiation. Tetra hydro furan (THF) and acid catalyst (H2SO4) was found to be an appropriate co-solvent and catalyst for high free fatty acids (FFA) content E. compressa biomass to increase the efficiency of the reactive in situ process. The optimization study was conducted to obtain the maximum yield and it was determined as 30vol% of THF as a co-solvent, 10wt% of H2SO4, 5.5:1 ratio of methanol to algal biomass and 600rpm of mixing intensity at 65°C for 90min of ultrasonic irradiation time. The produced biodiesel was characterized by (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H NMR) analysis. Kinetic studies revealed that the reaction followed the first-order reaction mechanism. Rapid in situ transesterification was found to be suitable technique to produce biodiesel from marine macroalgae feedstock. 
In vitro fermentation by human faecal bacteria of total and purified dietary fibres from brown seaweeds.	The in vitro degradation of dietary fibre from three brown seaweeds (Himanthalia elongata, Laminaria digitata and Undaria pinnatifida) was studied, using human faecal flora. Two sets of fibre were tested: (1) total algal fibres extracted from the whole algae, mainly composed of alginates, and (2) purified fibres (sulphated fucans, Na-alginates and laminarans) representative of those contained in the whole brown algae. Mannuronate, one algal component, was also investigated. Substrate disappearance and short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) production were monitored after 6, 12 and 24 h fermentation. Gas production was followed hourly during the first 9 h and then at 12 and 24 h. Sugarbeet fibre was used as a fermentation reference substrate. According to the fermentative indices used, most of each of the total algal fibres disappeared after 24 h (range 60-76%) but, unlike the reference substrate, they were not completely metabolized to SCFA (range 47-62%). Among the purified algal fibres, disappearance of laminarans was approximately 90% and metabolism to SCFA was approximately 85% in close agreement with the fermentation pattern of reference fibres. Sulphated fucans were not degraded. Na-alginates exhibited a fermentation pattern quite similar to those of the whole algal fibres with a more pronounced discrepancy between disappearance and production of SCFA: disappearance was approximately 83% but metabolism was only approximately 57%. Mannuronate was slowly fermented but its metabolism corresponded to its disappearance from the fermentative medium. Thus, the characteristic fermentation pattern of the total fibres from the three brown algae investigated was attributed to the peculiar fermentation of alginates, and mannuronate was shown not to be directly involved.
