Pathophysiology of acne]	Acne is a disease that develops in pilosebaceous follicles. Acne was long considered was an infectious disease related to Propionibac-terium acnes, but studies show that the production of inflammatory substances in situ was much more important to the action of this bacterium than was simple infection. It was once thought that only the androgens could stimulate the seba-ceous gland, but today we know that neuromediators can also stimulate sebum production. This finding provides physiological support to the clinical observation that stress can induce acne.
The asymmetric scent: ringtailed lemurs (Lemur catta) have distinct chemical signatures in left and right brachial glands.	Distinctive cues are predicted to evolve when the benefits obtained by the recognition process overcome its costs. When individual recognition is particularly beneficial for both senders and receivers, the expression of strongly distinctive signals is predicted to evolve. On the other hand, it could be predicted that each individual should show a very stable individual signature. In the same perspective, a great stability of the individual signatures could be expected. Lemur catta is the first non-human primate in which olfactory individual recognition has been demonstrated on the basis of the specialized brachial gland secretions. In this paper, I performed gas chromatograph analyses of right and left gland samples collected in two different periods (breeding and non-breeding seasons) from seven males. The aim was to verify if a diversification in such cues, already demonstrated at the inter-individual level, also occurs at the intra-individual level between left and right glands. I verified, by discriminant analysis and chemical distance comparisons, that each gland of each lemur has its particular signature that is maintained through time. Moreover, such diversification resulted so marked to make the overall intra-individual chemical differences similar to/as strong as the inter-individual ones. Since in rodents several odors from different glands may be integrated in individual recognition, I suggest that bilateral diversification in L. catta scents may offer an enhanced distinctiveness that could provide benefits in mate choice and social relationships.
Physiology of the vellus hair follicle: hair growth and sebum excretion.	The growth of vellus hair and the secretion of sebum from vellus hair follicles were measured on the forehead, cheek, chest, shoulder and back of healthy men and women aged 15-30 years. Hair growth was assessed by computerized image-analysis of photographs and sebum excretion by the use of Sebutape followed by image analysis. The density of vellus hairs and the percentage of growing hairs were higher on the face than on the thorax (439 hairs/cm2 with 49% growing hairs on the forehead compared with 85 hairs/cm2 with 31.5% growing hairs on the back). The rate of growth ranged from 0.03 mm/day on the forehead to 0.13 mm/day on the back. The maximum length of vellus hair significantly decreased with age; otherwise hair growth was not affected by age or sex. Some variations in hair growth and sebum secretion were observed over a period of 3 months, but no consistent rhythms were detected. There was no obvious link between vellus hair growth and sebum excretion.
Isolation and characterization of cDNA for an androgen-regulated mRNA in the flank organ of hamsters.	Flank organs of hamster are useful for studying androgen-dependent growth of hair follicles and sebaceous glands. To elucidate the mechanism of gene expression regulated by androgen, we constructed a cDNA library from flank organs of male hamsters and screened by a differential hybridization method using cDNA probes from normal and castrated males. We isolated a cDNA clone, termed FAR-17a, whose expression was found to be highly sensitive to androgen. FAR-17a mRNA of 1.8 kb was reduced after castration and reappeared after testosterone treatments. Among several tissues examined, FAR-17a gene was expressed at a high level in flank organ and a low level in testis and earlobe. FAR-17a probe detected a few fragments in genomic DNA of hamster, mouse, suncus, pig, and human, suggesting that this gene is phylogenetically conserved. The sequence of FAR-17a cDNA predicts a protein of 231 amino acids (27,216 daltons) having basic properties. The deduced protein has no significant homologies to proteins previously described.
Electrophoretic mobility of corneocytes measured by laser Doppler spectroscopy.	A new approach studying the characteristics of the stratum corneum is presented: the electrophoretic mobility of corneocytes by laser Doppler spectroscopy. The detergent scrub technique was used for harvesting corneocytes from three body regions (forehead, palm, and sole) of normal persons (n = 20) under casual conditions and after thorough defattening of the skin with 70% isopropyl alcohol or petrol. Similarly, cells from the forehead, shoulder, and palm were obtained from 22 acne patients treated with isotretinoin (13-cis retinoic acid) 0.5-0.7 mg/kg body weight (b.wt.)/day for 12-16 weeks, and in patients receiving arotinoid (Ro 15-0778) 192 mg (n = 5) or 500 mg (n = 5) per kg/b.wt./day for 6 weeks (forehead and shoulder). In another experiment, cell suspensions with a pH ranging from 5.0-7.3 were evaluated. Measurements were performed by dynamic laser light scattering. This laser application allows exact electrophoretic mobility measurements in a short time (3 min). When cells pass the laser beam, the scattered light is frequency-shifted due to the optical Doppler effect. These frequency shifts are analyzed by the heterodyne light beating technique. The analog signal of the photodetector is converted into a power spectrum by Fourier analysis. This power spectrum represents the spectrum of electrophoretic cell mobility distribution. Results showed different electrophoretic mobility values for corneocytes dependent on the topographic region: forehead 1.18 +/- 0.16, palm 1.10 +/- 0.14, and sole 0.83 +/- 0.10 (means +/- SEM) micron cm/Vs. Defattening with isopropyl alcohol decreased the mobility values to 0.90 +/- 0.09 (p less than or equal to 0.01), 0.95 +/- 0.10, and 0.77 +/- 0.10 micron cm/Vs respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The role of the preputial glands in sexual attractivity of the female rat.	This study shows that olfactory cues contribute to attractivity of the female rat but that the preputial glands are a minor source of such olfactory stimuli. In the experiments described, a residential plus-maze was used. The amount of time resident male rats spent in the vicinity of an estrous female rat was used as a measure of female attractivity. In the first experiment it was shown that male rats were attracted to anaesthetized estrous female rats but that these females were less attractive than unanaesthetized estrous females. In the second experiment it was shown that after removal of the preputial glands females were still attractive for male rats. The results of the third experiment demonstrated that estrous preputialectomized female rats remained attractive for male rats when they were anesthetized. When the resident male rats could make a choice between an estrous preputialectomized female and an estrous control female there was a tendency for the latter to be preferred. It can be concluded that olfactory cues enhance the attractivity of an estrous female rat, but that it is not the only sensory modality used by the female to attract a (distant) male. The preputial glands are of minor importance as a source of olfactory signals.
Skin morphology and function.	Proper understanding of the cause, nature, and treatment of diseases affecting the skin requires an intimate knowledge of the anatomy and physiology of normal as well as pathologic skin. This article thus lays the groundwork for the discussions of specific pathologic conditions that follow in this issue.
Effect of aging on sebaceous gland activity and on the fatty acid composition of wax esters.	Using fused-silica capillary gas chromatography, we investigated sebum samples from 55 healthy individuals to discover the effects of aging on the sebaceous gland activity and on the fatty acid composition of wax exters. The sebaceous gland activity, which was expressed by the ratio of wax esters/[cholesterol + cholesterol esters] (WE/[C + CE]), showed a distinct change from infancy through maturity to senescence; the curve of the ratio made a peak in our subjects's 20s. Using the fatty acid analyses, we found an interesting relationship between C16:1 straight and C16:1 iso-branched chains, each of which occupied a large proportion in the fatty acids of wax esters; the former increased in proportion from infancy toward the 20s, with a correlation with aging (r = 0.788, p less than 0.01), and decreased thereafter until our subject's 50s (r = -0.611, p less than 0.01). In contrast, the proportion of the latter followed an entirely reversed course with advancing age. The percentages of C16:1 straight chain components were correlated positively with the WE/[C + CE] ratio (r = 0.642, p less than 0.01), while there was found to be a negative correlation between the proportion of C16:1 iso-branched chain components and the WE/[C + CE] ratio (r = -0.556, p less than 0.01). The results suggest that more active sebaceous glands in lipid production excrete lipids with a higher proportion of C16:1 straight chain fatty acid and a lower proportion of C16:1 iso-branched chain fatty acid. As well as the sebaceous gland activity, the fatty acid composition in sebum wax esters is affected by advancing age in Japanese.
A comparative study of refatting kinetics on the scalp and forehead.	A modified photometric technique has shown considerable differences between the refatting kinetics of the scalp and forehead. The refatting on the forehead occurs rapidly, probably due to the large follicular reservoir. The follicular reservoir of the scalp, which bears a large terminal hair, is much smaller and so the refatting time is longer. Thus, sebum excretion and sebum production rates probably correlate better on the scalp than on the forehead, and we suggest that the scalp may be a better site than the forehead for investigating sebaceous gland physiology.
Roles of adrenal and gonadal steroids and season in uropygial gland function in male pigeons, Columba livia.	To gauge the relative regulative roles of adrenal, gonadal, and thyroid hormones on uropygial gland of male adult pigeons, morphometric, histological, and histochemical observations have been made on a seasonal basis in normal as well as experimentally manipulated birds. Normal birds showed a parallel adrenal-gonadal-uropygial relationship and inverse adrenal-thyroid, thyroid-gonadal, and thyroid-uropygial relationships. Induced hypocorticalism by dexamethasone in the breeding season and hypercorticalism by ACTH or corticosterone treatment in the nonbreeding season were marked by inhibitory and stimulatory changes respectively in the uropygial gland and testis and by inverse thyroid activity. Further, cyproterone acetate treatment in the breeding season completely suppressed testicular functions and increased thyroid activity without affecting either adrenal or uropygial weight, structure, and functions. Based on the observations it is concluded that adrenal steroids are principally involved in regulating the uropygial gland while the gonadal steroids are involved in qualitative aspects of secretion during the breeding phase and thyroid hormones in maintaining the general metabolic profile.
Disruption of early pregnancy by direct and indirect exposure to novel males in mice: comparison of influences of preputialectomized and intact males.	Inseminated female CF-1 mice (Mus musculus) were exposed on days 1 to 5 of pregnancy to unfamiliar outbred males. In the first experiment, inseminated females were each housed directly with the sire, a preputialectomized male, or an intact male. Both types of novel male attempted to mate with the female during this period, unlike the sire. Reinsemination occurred in a significant proportion of the females that were exposed to novel males; this effect was equivalent for preputialectomized and intact males. In two subsequent experiments, we refined a paradigm of indirect exposure to novel males through a wire-mesh grid, which prevents mating and reinsemination. Two or three males housed directly above each female through a grid disrupt pregnancy in most cases, but housing the males below the females is much less likely to do so. In a final experiment, each inseminated female was housed below two males that were either preputialectomized or sham-preputialectomized. Whereas 29 of 33 undisturbed controls were parturient, only eight of 32 females exposed to sham-preputialectomized males and six of 32 exposed to preputialectomized males were parturient. These results suggest that nonvolatile pheromones are involved in novel-male-induced pregnancy disruptions, but that preputial gland emissions are not necessary for such disruptions.
Localization and regulation of expression of the FAR-17A gene in the hamster flank organs.	A quantitative in situ hybridization study was carried out to determine the precise localization and androgen regulation of the flank organ regulated (FAR-17A) mRNA expression in the different cellular components of the hamster flank organs. Although FAR-17A mRNA was highly expressed in the epithelial cells of the sebaceous glands, it was also found in the outer root sheath of the hair follicles and in melanocytes. The changes in FAR-17A mRNA levels, in the size of the flank organ and sebaceous gland areas as well as in the weight of the seminal vesicles and prostate, were compared following castration and after 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone treatment. FAR-17A mRNA levels were already significantly decreased 1 d after castration, in parallel with a concomitant decrease in the number of labeled cells with the FAR-17A probe. A maximal decrease was found 7 d after castration. The other parameters were significantly reduced later. After 7 d of treatment with dihydrotestosterone, all values returned to those found in intact animals. Similar stimulatory effects on these parameters were observed after treatment with the adrenal sex steroid precursor dehydroepiandrosterone. These data show that all of the components of the flank organs (sebaceous glands, hair follicles, and melanocytes) express the flank organ regulated (17A) type gene (FAR-17A) gene and that its expression is stimulated by treatment with either dihydrotestosterone or dehydroepiandrosterone. Moreover, FAR-17A mRNA levels respond to androgen stimulation more rapidly than the standard morphologic parameters, revealing that the FAR-17A gene could be a more sensitive and cell specific marker to study the mechanisms of androgen action in the skin.
