Ion transport across model lipid membranes containing light-harvesting complex II: an effect of light.	The effect of light on proton transport across lipid membranes of small unilamellar liposomes containing incorporated major light-harvesting pigment-protein complex of Photosystem II (LHCII) has been studied with the application of pH-sensitive dyes entrapped inside vesicles. Proton permeability coefficient for LHCII-modified membranes was found to be about twice as high as in the case of the control pure lipid vesicles. Illumination of the samples with light absorbed by the LHCII-bound photosynthetic pigments considerably affects the kinetics of proton transport: it increases the rate and decreases the steady-state level of proton gradient across the membranes. The effect was interpreted in terms of heat-induced conformational changes of LHCII molecular structures that affect proton buffering capacity of this protein. Both the control and the LHCII-modified lipid membranes have been found to be practically impermeable to Ca(++) ions, as demonstrated by fluorescence of liposome-entrapped calcium-sensitive probe calcium crimson. The slight differences in the proton transport across the LHCII-containing membranes under the presence of Ca(++) suggest calcium binding to this antenna protein.
Complete subsite mapping of a "loopful" GH19 chitinase from rye seeds based on its crystal structure.	Crystallographic analysis of a mutated form of "loopful" GH19 chitinase from rye seeds a double mutant RSC-c, in which Glu67 and Trp72 are mutated to glutamine and alanine, respectively, (RSC-c-E67Q/W72A) in complex with chitin tetrasaccharide (GlcNAc)₄ revealed that the entire substrate-binding cleft was completely occupied with the sugar residues of two (GlcNAc)₄ molecules. One (GlcNAc)₄ molecule bound to subsites -4 to -1, while the other bound to subsites +1 to +4. Comparisons of the main chain conformation between liganded RSC-c-E67Q/W72A and unliganded wild type RSC-c suggested domain motion essential for catalysis. This is the first report on the complete subsite mapping of GH19 chitinase.
Enzymatic system transforming chlorophyllide into chlorophyll in etiolated leaves using exogenous substrates]	The substrate specificities of the enzymatic system, which transforms chlorophyllide into chlorophyll in etioplasts of whole leaves and of the chlorophyllase enzyme, which performs the inverse reaction, i. e. chlorophyll hydrolysis, were compared. Infiltration of chlorophyllide a of b into the excised etiolated leaves of rye results in a formation of chlorophylls a and b in the dark, whereas pheophorbide a or b does not cause pheophytin to appear under the same conditions. Consequently, for the in vivo esterification reaction to occur, substitution of the methyl group by the formyl one in position 3 of the tetrapyrrole ring is not essential, but the presence of the central magnesium atom in the molecule is necessary. On the other hand, chlorophyllase from the same etiolated leaves equally hydrolyzes both chlorophylls and pheophytins. It is concluded that the enzymes present in etioplasts which catalyze chlorophyllide esterification and chlorophyll hydrolysis are not identical. The optimal temperature of the in vivo esterification of exogenous chlorophyllide to chlorophyll (37 degrees) was determined and the ability of this chlorophyll to be hydrolyzed by chlorophyllase was established.
The complete amino acid sequence of chitinase-c from the seeds of rye (Secale cereal).	The complete amino acid sequence of rye seed chitinase-c (RSC-c) has been analyzed. This was done by first sequencing the tryptic peptides from RCm-RSC-c and then connecting them by analyzing the peptides produced by digestions with lysylendopeptidase and Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease of RCm-RSC-c, and by chymotryptic digestion and formic acid cleavage of S. aureus V8 protease peptides. RSC-c consists of 243 amino acid residues and has a molecular mass of 26,093, and has 92% sequence homology with barley seed basic chitinase which lacks a Cys-rich domain. Cys204 is free and six cysteine residues are linked by disulfide bonds between Cys23 and Cys85, Cys97 and Cys105, and Cys223 and Cys236.
