Cerebral expression and serum detectability of secretagogin, a recently cloned EF-hand Ca(2+)-binding protein.	Recently we identified a novel EF-hand Ca-binding protein termed secretagogin, which is expressed in neuroendocrine cells. Immunohistochemical investigations, using a murine monoclonal and an affinity purified rabbit polyclonal anti-secretagogin antibody as well as Northern-blot and Western-blot analysis revealed a neuron-specific cerebral expression pattern. Secretagogin was detected in high quantity in basket and stellate cells of the cerebellar cortex, in secretory neurons of the anterior part of the pituitary gland and in singular neurons of the frontal and parietal neocortex. Remarkable staining intensity was observed in hypothalamic and in hippocampal neurons. Using a newly developed sandwich capture ELISA we show presence of secretagogin in serum of patients suffering from hypoxic neuronal damage. In sera obtained from 32 patients with different forms of neurological symptoms due to focal cerebral ischemia, secretagogin levels ranged from 3 to 236 pg/ml, with highest levels observed on days 2 and 3 after infarction. Three patients exhibiting minor, reversible neurological deficits had nondetectable serum secretagogin levels at time points of testing. In 50 control sera, secretagogin was below the detection limit of our ELISA. Parallel analysis of secretagogin and the established neurobiochemical marker S-100B in 14 representative patients revealed comparable results. However, S-100B levels were higher and exhibited different kinetics than secretagogin. Our data present the cerebral expression pattern of secretagogin and give evidence that this protein might represent a clinically relevant serum marker indicative for neuronal damage.
Binding of calcium ions and SNAP-25 to the hexa EF-hand protein secretagogin.	Secretagogin is a hexa EF-hand protein, which has been identified as a novel potential tumour marker. In the present study, we show that secretagogin binds four Ca2+ ions (log K1=7.1+/-0.4, log K2=4.7+/-0.6, log K3=3.6+/-0.7 and log K4=4.6+/-0.6 in physiological salt buffers) with a [Ca2+](0.5) of approx. 25 microM. The tertiary structure of secretagogin changes significantly upon Ca2+ binding, but not upon Mg2+ binding, and the amount of exposed hydrophobic surface in secretagogin increases upon Ca2+ binding, but not upon Mg2+ binding. These properties suggest that secretagogin belongs to the 'sensor' family of Ca2+-binding proteins. However, in contrast with the prototypical Ca2+ sensor calmodulin, which interacts with a very large number of proteins, secretagogin is significantly less promiscuous. Only one secretagogin-interacting protein was reproducibly identified from insulinoma cell lysates and from bovine and mouse brain homogenates. This protein was identified as SNAP-25 (25 kDa synaptosome-associated protein), a protein involved in Ca2+-induced exocytosis in neurons and in neuroendocrine cells. K(d) was determined to be 1.2x10(-7) M in the presence of Ca2+ and 1.5x10(-6) M in the absence of Ca2+. The comparatively low Ca2+ affinity for secretagogin and the fact that it undergoes Ca2+-induced conformational changes and interacts with SNAP-25 raise the possibility that secretagogin may link Ca2+ signalling to exocytotic processes.
Differential expression of secretagogin and glucose-related protein 78 in colorectal carcinoma: a proteome study]	To identify the differentially expressed proteins or peptides and potential biomarkers of tumorigenesis for colorectal cancers.
