Secretin, a known gastrointestinal peptide, is widely expressed during mouse embryonic development.	The gastrointestinal functions of the 27-amino acid secretin peptide have been well established. In previous prenatal studies, secretin expression in the rat duodenum was reported after day 17 of gestation while its expression in other organs and its functions in the developing embryos are still unknown. By in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical staining, secretin transcripts and peptides were found to be widely expressed in mouse embryos. Consistent with the idea that secretin is a brain-gut peptide, its expressions are present in several developing brain regions such as cephalic mesenchyme, cerebellar primordium and choroid plexus as well as the epithelial villi lining and inner circular muscle of the developing intestine. Other than these organs, secretin was also detected in the developing heart including the ventricular epicardium and myocardium and certain structures of the developing kidney like ureteric bud, collecting duct and glomerulus. These observations strongly suggest for a functional role of secretin during mouse embryonic development.
Effects of lidocaine upon CCK-PZ and secretin producing paraneurons in the canine duodenum responding to luminal chemical stimuli (author's transl)]	Amino acid solution (50 mM tryptophan and 50 mM phenylalanine in saline) introduced into the canine duodenal loop causes an increased enzyme output from the pancreas, whereas administration of 0.1 N HCl into the duodenal loop causes an increased juice flow from the organ. Local anesthetic, lidocaine, introduced into the duodenal lumen suppressed the pancreatic enzyme releasing response to the intraluminal amino acid without affecting the juice flow response to the hydrochloric stimulus. Intravenously administered lidocaine did not block the pancreatic response to the intraluminal amino acid stimulus, suggesting that lidocaine affects the chemoreceptive, apical part of the endocrine cell or paraneuron which releases cholecystokinin-pancreozymin (CCK-PZ). Neither was the pancreas responding to an intravenous injection of CCK-PZ (5 Ivy Dog Units) suppressed by intravenously administered lidocaine even when its arterial concentration exceeded the convulsion level. This indicates that lidocaine affects the duodenal paraneurons recognizing the luminal stimuli but not the pancreatic cells responding to the hormones released by them. The results further suggest that in paraneurons as well as in neurons there seems to be a spectrum with regard to the susceptibility to anesthetics; thus the secretin releasing paraneuron is much more resistant to lidocaine than the CCK-PZ producing one.
