The covalent linkage of secretory component to IgA. Structure of sIgA.	Immunoglobulin A which is secreted into external fluids is synthesized in plasma cells as an (IgA)2-J-chain complex. This complex docks on to the polyimmunoglobulin receptor which is located at the basolateral surface of epithelial cells. After docking the (IgA)2-J-receptor complex is internalized and processed. The polyimmunoglobulin receptor loses its C-terminal tail and thus becomes the secretory component. This secretory component is then covalently linked to the (IgA)2-J-chain complex by a disulfide bond, and protects the so formed sIgA from denaturation and proteolysis in external fluids. In order to establish this disulfide bond between IgA and the secretory component, sIgA, purified from human colostrum, was subjected to several enzymatic and chemical fragmentation reactions. One of the resulting polypeptides allowed us to characterize the covalent linkage of the secretory component to IgA in sIgA. IgA was found to be covalently linked to the secretory piece by a single disulfide bond between Cys 311 of one alpha-chain and Cys 467 of the secretory component. Cys 501 of the secretory component and Cys 311 of the other alpha-chain are blocked by cysteines. With this last paper of a series the structure of an entire sIgA molecule has been elucidated.
Evaluation of monoclonal antibodies with specificity for human IgA, IgA subclasses and allotypes and secretory component. Results of an IUIS/WHO collaborative study.	51 monoclonal antibodies (McAb) with putative specificity for human IgA, the IgA subclasses, Am allotypes or secretory component (SC) were evaluated for immunoreactivity and specificity by nine laboratories employing immunodiffusion, agglutination, immunohistological assays, immunoblotting and direct binding and competitive inhibition enzyme immunoassays. McAbs specific for IgA PAN (n = 24), IgA1 (n = 7), IgA2 (n = 3), IgA2m(2) (n = 2), non-IgA2m(2) (n = 4) and SC or secretory IgA (n = 5) were identified that were immunoreactive and specific in the assays employed. The McAbs identified as IgA- or SC-reactive were shown to be non-reactive to human IgG, IgM, IgD, IgE, kappa and lambda by direct binding and competitive inhibition immunoassays. Interestingly, no McAbs with restricted specificity for IgA2m(1) were identified. Some McAbs displayed higher affinity and/or better performance in one or several of the assay groups. The IgA- and SC-specific McAbs identified in this international collaborative study have potential as immunochemical reference reagents to identify and quantitate monomeric and polymeric IgA in human serum and secretions.
