Structure, organization and expression of two closely related novel Lea (late-embryogenesis-abundant) genes in Arabidopsis thaliana.	We have isolated and sequenced a 9.5 kb genomic region from A. thaliana, located on chromosome 2, which contains two tandemly arranged closely related genes (AtM10 and AtM17) coding for a new family of LEA proteins. The deduced proteins have a molecular mass of 11 and 29 kDa, respectively, are extremely hydrophilic except at their N-termini and share 70% amino acid (aa) identity. A 47 aa motif containing a 6-cysteine domain is present once in AtM10 and four times in AtM17. The short intergenic region, the identical position of the intron and the overall sequence homology suggest that these two genes evolved through a duplication event. This conclusion is supported by the presence of two homologous strictosidine synthase-like (pseudo)genes downstream from AtM17 and AtM10. Expression studies, using AtM10 and AtM17 cDNAs, revealed that both transcripts accumulate exclusively in seeds from late embryogenesis until two days after imbibition. Expression of both genes in young seedlings is repressed during ABA, salt or drought treatment, whereas a cold stress induces the expression of AtM17 only. In situ hybridization revealed that AtM10 transcripts are detected throughout the embryo while those of AtM17 are more localized to cotyledon cells.
The outer integument and funicular outgrowth complex in the ovule of Magnolia grandiflora (Magnoliaceae).	The development of the outer integument and funicular outgrowth in the ovule of Magnolia grandiflora was examined by microtomy and scanning electron microscopy to reveal the morphology and evolution of the outer integument, a novel angiosperm structure. Early in development the outer integument is semiannular, decurrent to the lateral sides of the funiculus, and extends downwards beyond the funicular outgrowth that forms in the gap of the outer integument, and is transverse to the funiculus. The outer integument then overgrows the funicular outgrowth perpendicularly to the funiculus to form a micropyle together. The hood-shaped outer integument and the funicular outgrowth compose an envelope complex, and the interpretation of a single cupular outer integument is not supported. This envelope complex may differ from the cupular outer integument of other angiosperms, e.g., Nymphaeaceae, suggesting independent origin of apparently cupular outer integuments and hood-shaped outer integuments. Anatropous curving is due mainly to differential growth of the chalaza. The bistomic micropyle of Magnoliaceae seems to represent a derived character state, compared to an endostomic micropyle.
Reciprocal selection causes a coevolutionary arms race between crossbills and lodgepole pine.	Few studies have shown both reciprocal selection and reciprocal adaptations for a coevolving system in the wild. The goal of our study was to determine whether the patterns of selection on Rocky Mountain lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta spp. latifolia) and red crossbills (Loxia curvirostra complex) were concordant with earlier published evidence of reciprocal adaptations in lodgepole pine and crossbills on isolated mountain ranges in the absence of red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus). We found that selection (directional) by crossbills on lodgepole pine where Tamiasciurus are absent was divergent from the selection (directional) exerted by Tamiasciurus on lodgepole pine. This resulted in divergent selection between areas with and without Tamiasciurus that was congruent with the geographic patterns of cone variation. In the South Hills, Idaho, where Tamiasciurus are absent and red crossbills are thought to be coevolving with lodgepole pine, crossbills experienced stabilizing selection on bill size, with cone structure as the agent of selection. These results show that crossbills and lodgepole pine exhibit reciprocal adaptations in response to reciprocal selection, and they provide insight into the traits mediating and responding to selection in a coevolutionary arms race.
Bigger is not always better: conflicting selective pressures on seed size in Quercus ilex.	Most theoretical treatments of the evolutionary ecology of offspring size assume a simple and direct effect of investment per offspring on offspring fitness. In this paper I experimentally determine the relationship between seed mass and several main fitness components of the oak Quercus ilex, to estimate phenotypic selection acting on seed mass during the early life cycle and to discover any potential selective conflicts occurring between different stages from dispersal to establishment. I found a positive effect of acorn size on most fitness components related to seedling establishment. Large size increased germination rate and seedling survival, accelerated germination timing, and enhanced seedling growth. Nevertheless, there was also a direct negative effect of acorn size on survival to predation, because large acorns were highly preferred by the main postdispersal seed predators at the study site, wild boars and wood mice. Because of the low probability of escape from predation, the fitness of large acorns estimated on this component was significantly lower than the fitness of smaller acorns. Therefore, seed size affected fitness in two different ways, yielding opposing and conflicting selective forces. These findings suggest that the general assumption that offspring fitness is a fixed positive function of seed size needs to be reconsidered for some systems. The existence of conflicting selection might explain the occurrence of an optimal seed size in some plant species without invoking a seed number-size trade-off.
Vatairea macrocarpa lectin induces paw edema with leukocyte infiltration.	A lectin from Vatairea macrocarpa (Vmac) seeds was investigated in a model of paw edema in rats and the possible involvement of leukocytes. Vmac (200 and 400 microg/paw, s.c.) induced a significant time- and dose-dependent paw edema, with leukocyte infiltration, which was drastically reduced in leukopaenic animals. These data suggest a pro-inflammatory effect for this lectin that is dependent on the presence of leukocytes.
Inheritance of egusi seed type in watermelon.	An unusual seed mutant in watermelon (Citrullus lanatus var. lanatus) has seeds with a fleshy pericarp, commonly called egusi seeds. The origin of the phenotype is unknown, but it is widely cultivated in Nigeria for the high protein and carbohydrate content of the edible seeds. Egusi seeds have a thick, fleshy pericarp that appears during the second to third week of fruit development. We studied the inheritance of this phenotype in crosses of normal seeded Charleston Gray and Calhoun Gray with two plant introduction accessions, PI 490383w and PI 560006, having the egusi seed type. We found that the egusi seed type is controlled by a single recessive gene, and the symbol eg was assigned.
Cytochemistry and immunolocalisation of polysaccharides and proteoglycans in the endosperm of green Arabica coffee beans.	The major noncellulosic polysaccharides and proteoglycans in the coffee bean (Coffea arabica) cell wall are (galacto)mannans and arabinogalactan proteins. Immunological and chemical probes demonstrated that the mannans and arabinogalactan proteins were located continuously across the width of the cell wall, but that the concentration of different structural epitopes within these polysaccharide types showed considerable spatial variation. For the mannans this was implied by the striated pattern demonstrated by fluctuation of the affinity between the mannan monoclonal antibody BGM C6 and (galacto)mannan. The arabinogalactan proteins labelled by the Yariv reagent and the arabinogalactan protein-specific antibody LM2 appeared to be located in all regions of the wall except the middle lamella, but showed some differences in intensity of labelling. However, the LM6 antibody, specific for (1-->5)-alpha-arabinan epitopes, was located only as a compact region adjacent to the cell lumen in the body of the endosperm; though, it did label throughout the wall of epidermal cells. This implied that either some of the more highly arabinosylated arabinogalactan proteins contained contiguous 5-arabinosyl residues or that a rhamnogalacturonan which contained 5-arabinosyl residues as side chains existed in the cell wall. In either case the polymers were very restricted in their distribution. A second category of pectin, a homogalacturonan detected by JIM7, was located only in the middle lamella region. The architecture of the wall, as revealed by resin etching, appeared to reflect the chemical heterogeneity, with three distinct physical zones identifiable in a cross section across a single wall.
The geographic selection mosaic for squirrels, crossbills and Aleppo pine.	The interactions between many species are structured in a geographic mosaic of populations among which selection is divergent. Here we tested the hypothesis that such a geographic selection mosaic arises for common crossbills (Loxia curvirostra) feeding on seeds in the cones of Aleppo pine (Pinus halepensis) because of geographic variation in the occurrence of European red squirrels (Sciurus vulgaris). On the Iberian Peninsula, Sciurus exerted directional selection favouring larger cones with larger scales, which has caused cones there to be larger than in the Balearic Islands where Sciurus are absent. Moreover, cones on the Iberian Peninsula are so large that they are apparently little used by the relatively small-billed crossbills on the Peninsula; selection by Sciurus seems to have made the cones so difficult to feed on that crossbills rely mostly on the seeds of other conifers. Where crossbills are present but Sciurus are absent (Mallorca Island), cones were smaller as a result of relaxation of selection by Sciurus. However, cones on Mallorca had proportionally thicker scales in comparison to where both Sciurus and crossbills are absent (Ibiza Island), presumably as an adaptation against crossbill predation. Here crossbills specialize on Aleppo pine, have relatively large bills and have apparently coevolved in an arms race with Aleppo pine. These results suggest that Sciurus has influenced both the geographic selection mosaics for crossbills and conifers and the adaptive radiation of crossbills in Eurasia much like Tamiasciurus has done in the North America.
Relationships among ecologically important dimensions of plant trait variation in seven neotropical forests.	When ecologically important plant traits are correlated they may be said to constitute an ecological 'strategy' dimension. Through identifying these dimensions and understanding their inter-relationships we gain insight into why particular trait combinations are favoured over others and into the implications of trait differences among species. Here we investigated relationships among several traits, and thus the strategy dimensions they represented, across 2134 woody species from seven Neotropical forests.
Response of Pinus halepensis Mill. seedlings to biosolids enriched with Cu, Ni and Zn in three Mediterranean forest soils.	We investigated the response of Pinus halepensis seedlings to the application of biosolids enriched with Cu, Ni and Zn on three Mediterranean forest soils under semiarid conditions. One-year-old seedlings were planted in lysimeters on soils developed from marl, limestone and sandstone which were left unamended, amended with biosolids, or amended with biosolids enriched in Cu, Ni and Zn. Enriched biosolids increased plant heavy metal concentration, but always below phytotoxic levels. Seedlings receiving unenriched biosolids showed a weak reduction in Cu and Zn concentration in needles, negatively affecting physiological status during drought. This effect was alleviated by the application of enriched sludge. Sewage sludge with relatively high levels of Cu, Zn and Ni had minor effects on plant performance on our experimental conditions. Results suggest that micronutrient limitations in these soils may be alleviated by the application of biosolids with a higher Cu, Zn and Ni content than those established by current regulations.
Hybrid incompatibility: when opposites attract with a fatal outcome.	Why do crosses between closely related species fail? Recent results suggest that mis-regulation of gene silencing contributes to hybrid failure.
Seed vigour studies in corn, soybean and tomato in response to fish protein hydrolysates and consequences on phenolic-linked responses.	Seed priming with fish protein hydrolysates (FPH) has been studied for the enhancement of seed vigour of corn, soybean and tomato. The influence of FPH at 2.5 mL/L and 5.0 mL/L on traditional agronomic parameters for seed vigour (germination percentage, seedling weight, seedling height) and potential new vigour-associated parameters (phenolic content, antioxidant activity, guaiacol peroxidase (GuPX) activity, chlorophyll content) was investigated. FPH treatment preferentially stimulated seedling vigour in the following order: soybean>tomato>corn. For soybean, FPH at 2.5 mL/L and 5 mL/L improved the majority of the seed vigour parameters (seedling weight and height, phenolic content, antioxidant activity and chlorophyll content, and lignification-associated GuPX activity). Similarly, for tomato, FPH at 2.5 mL/L stimulated seedling weight and height, GuPX activity and chlorophyll content. However, FPH did not stimulate corn seed vigour. Our results suggest an ability of proline precursor-rich FPH to improve of plant growth and development (e.g., seed vigour) in phenolic-rich plant species through modulation of phenolic and chlorophyll metabolisms.
Consequences of the overproduction of methyl jasmonate on seed production, tolerance to defoliation and competitive effect and response of Arabidopsis thaliana.	* Accumulation of methyl jasmonate (MeJA) after herbivore attack in plants is associated with the induction of defenses that can benefit fitness, but are costly to express; effects often explored using exogenous application of jasmonates. * Here I explored the consequences of the overexpression of MeJA on seed production, tolerance to defoliation and competitive effect and response, using a genotype of Arabidopsis thaliana that overexpresses jasmonic acid carboxyl methyltransferase (JMT) and contains threefold higher levels of MeJA than wild-type plants. * Without competition, JMT plants produced 37-40% less total seed mass than vector controls or wild-type plants, and had reduced seed germination. Defoliation reduced height more strongly in wild-type than in JMT plants, but reduced total seed production equally. In a competition experiment, the presence of a neighbor reduced fitness more strongly in wild-type than in JMT plants, but JMT plants exhibited dampened opportunity costs and benefits of induction with jasmonic acid of itself or its neighbor. This may have related to the higher constitutive expression but reduced inducibility of jasmonate-mediated defenses, including trypsin inhibitors, exhibited by JMT plants. * In natural plant populations, overexpression of MeJA-mediated responses should be beneficial to resistance to herbivores, pathogens and competitors, but is directly costly to fitness and probably constrains plasticity in response to changing environmental conditions.
Correlated evolution of genome size and seed mass.	Previous investigators have identified strong positive relationships between genome size and seed mass within species, and across species from the same genus and family. Here, we make the first broad-scale quantification of this relationship, using data for 1222 species, from 139 families and 48 orders. We analyzed the relationship between genome size and seed mass using a statistical framework that included four different tests. A quadratic relationship between genome size and seed mass appeared to be driven by the large genome/seed mass gymnosperms and the many small genome size/large seed mass angiosperms. Very small seeds were never associated with very large genomes, possibly indicating a developmental constraint. Independent contrast results showed that divergences in genome size were positively correlated with divergences in seed mass. Divergences in seed mass have been more closely correlated with divergences in genome size than with divergences in other morphological and ecological variables. Plant growth form is the only variable examined thus far that explains a greater proportion of variation in seed mass than does genome size.
Seed anatomy and water uptake in relation to seed dormancy in Opuntia tomentosa (Cactaceae, Opuntioideae).	There is considerable confusion in the literature concerning impermeability of seeds with 'hard' seed coats, because the ability to take up (imbibe) water has not been tested in most of them. Seeds of Opuntia tomentosa were reported recently to have a water-impermeable seed coat sensu lato (i.e. physical dormancy), in combination with physiological dormancy. However, physical dormancy is not known to occur in Cactaceae. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine if seeds of O. tomentosa are water-permeable or water-impermeable, i.e. if they have physical dormancy.
Local adaptation enhances seedling recruitment along an altitudinal gradient in a high mountain mediterranean plant.	Germination and seedling establishment, which are critical stages in the regeneration process of plant populations, may be subjected to natural selection and adaptive evolution. The aims of this work were to assess the main limitations on offspring performance of Silene ciliata, a high mountain Mediterranean plant, and to test whether local adaptation at small spatial scales has a significant effect on the success of establishment.
Phylogeny and comparative seed morphology of epiphytic and terrestrial species of Liparis (Orchidaceae) in Japan.	To elucidate the evolution of epiphytes in Liparis section Liparis, we examined the phylogenetic relationships of 16 species by using internal transcribed spacer regions of 18S-26S nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS) and three chloroplast DNA regions (trnS-trnG spacer, trnL with trnL-trnF spacer, and partial matK). Results showed that the epiphytic L. fujisanensis is sister to the terrestrial L. koreana and L. kumokiri, while another epiphyte, L. truncata, is sister to the terrestrial L. krameri. Therefore, the two epiphytic species evolved from terrestrial species independently in section Liparis. Comparative seed morphology revealed that the epiphytes have larger embryos than their closely related terrestrial counterparts. A similar trend toward the increase of embryo size in the two epiphytic species belonging to closely related, but distinct clades suggests that the large embryo may have an advantage in the epiphytic lifestyle. The two epiphytic species share another character state, smaller air spaces in the seed than that of closely related terrestrial species, suggesting possible low dispersibility of the epiphytes.
Simulation of germination of pioneer species along an experimental drought gradient.	The germination of ten plant species from the Iberian Peninsula was assessed along a water deficit gradient between -0. 1652 (moist) and -0.4988 MPa (dry) of osmotic potential, created by addition of increasing concentrations of polyethylene glycol (PEG 6000) to distilled water in which plants were grown hydroponically. The level and rate of germination of Daucus carota and Thapsia villosa significantly decreased with decreasing psi. Seeds of Dactylis glomerata and Dittrichia viscosa had positive germination responses to low osmotic potentials; germination of Epilobium hirsutum was not affected by osmotic potential. Germination of Medicago arabica, Cynosurus cristatus, Cistus ladanifer and Cistus albidus, was no favored by the addition of polyethylene glycol (PEG). Germination of Foeniculum vulgare and Thapsia villosa was inhibited by PEG.
Modeling the Arabidopsis seed shape by a cardioid: efficacy of the adjustment with a scale change with factor equal to the Golden Ratio and analysis of seed shape in ethylene mutants.	A new model for the description of Arabidopsis seed shape based on the comparison of the outline of its longitudinal section with a transformed cardioid is presented. The transformation consists of scaling the horizontal axis by a factor equal to the Golden Ratio. The elongated cardioid approximates the shape of the Arabidopsis seed with more accuracy than other figures. The length to width ratio in wild-type Columbia Arabidopsis dry seeds is close to the Golden Ratio and decreases over the course of imbibition. Dry seeds of etr1-1 mutants presented a reduced length to width ratio. Application of the new model based on the cardioid allows for comparison of shape between wild-type and mutant genotypes, revealing other general alterations in the seeds in ethylene signaling pathway mutants (etr1-1).
Significance of light-induced hook exaggeration as reinforced by the concomitant anatomical change of germinating tomato seeds.	Progression of the apical hook of tomato, Solanum lycopersicum, exaggerated by phytochrome mediation at the early germination stage is followed in detail macroscopically and anatomically, and its proposed significance, i.e. survival by securing the seed coat release in the field, is reinforced by new findings. Furthermore, after self-release or artificial removal of the seed coat and the endosperm, no hook exaggeration occurs any more. Similar light-induced hook exaggeration (LIHE) is also found in carrot, parsley, and Cryptotaenia japonica, which share some seed characteristics with tomato. These findings also support the above-stated significance.
Over-expression of AGPase genes enhances seed weight and starch content in transgenic maize.	Cereal crops accumulate starch in the seed endosperm as an energy reserve. ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) plays a key role in regulating starch biosynthesis in cereal seeds. The AGPase in the maize endosperm is a heterotetramer of two small subunits, encoded by Brittle2 (Bt2) gene, and two large subunits, encoded by the Shrunken2 (Sh2) gene. The two genes (Bt2, Sh2) from maize were introduced into two elite maize inbred lines, solely and in tandem, and under the control of endosperm-specific promoters for over-expression. PCR, Southern blotting, and real-time RT-PCR analysis indicated that the transgenes were integrated into the genome of transgenic plants and were over-expressed in their progeny. The over-expression of either gene enhanced AGPase activity, seed weight and starch content compared with the WT, but the amounts were lower than plants with over-expression of both Bt2 and Sh2. Developing seeds from co-expression transgenic maize plants had higher cytoplasmic AGPase activity: the 100-grain weight increased 15% over the wild type (WT), and the starch content increased to over 74% compared with the WT of 65%. These results indicate that over-expression of the genes in transgenic maize plants could improve kernel traits. This report provides a feasible approach for increasing starch content and seed weight in maize.
Mapping quantitative trait loci for seed size traits in soybean (Glycine max L. Merr.).	Seed size traits in soybean--length, width and thickness--and their corresponding ratios--length-to-width, length-to-thickness and width-to-thickness--play a crucial role in determining seed appearance, quality and yield. In this study, an attempt was made to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) for the aforementioned seed size traits in F(2:3), F(2:4) and F(2:5) populations from the direct and reciprocal crosses of Lishuizhongzihuang with Nannong 493-1, using multi-QTL joint analysis (MJA) along with composite interval mapping (CIM). A total of 121 main-effect QTL (M-QTL), six environmental effects, eight environment-by-QTL interactions, five cytoplasmic effects and 92 cytoplasm-by-QTL interactions were detected. Fifty-two common M-QTL across MJA and CIM, 21 common M-QTL in more than two populations and 5 M-QTL in all three populations showed the stability of the results. Five M-QTL had higher heritability, greater than 20%. In addition, 28 cytoplasm-by-QTL and 4 environment-by-QTL interactions were confirmed by CIM. Most M-QTL were clustered in eight chromosomal regions. Our results provide a good foundation for fine mapping, cloning and designed molecular breeding of favorable genes related to soybean seed size traits.
Molecular phylogenetic analyses of Tofieldiaceae (Alismatales): family circumscription and intergeneric relationships.	Tofieldiaceae are a small monocot family comprising about 20 species, mostly distributed in the Northern Hemisphere, with some in northern South America. To clarify the family circumscription, the number of distinguishable genera in the family, and relationships among the genera, we conducted molecular analyses of cpDNA (matK and non-coding trnL-trnL-trnF region) sequences of 17 associated species of Tofieldiaceae, along with 14 species of Acorales, Alismatales, Dioscoreales, Pandanales, and Liliales. Results showed that Tofieldiaceae are monophyletic, comprising all the species assignable to Harperocallis, Isidrogalvia, Pleea, Tofieldia, and Triantha, thus supporting the original family circumscription. Within the family, Pleea is sister to the rest of the family, in which Isidrogalvia is sister to Harperocallis, and Tofieldia to Triantha. Morphological characters supporting the relationships among the genera were briefly discussed.
Timing is everything: early degradation of abscission layer is associated with increased seed shattering in U.S. weedy rice.	Seed shattering, or shedding, is an important fitness trait for wild and weedy grasses. U.S. weedy rice (Oryza sativa) is a highly shattering weed, thought to have evolved from non-shattering cultivated ancestors. All U.S. weedy rice individuals examined to date contain a mutation in the sh4 locus associated with loss of shattering during rice domestication. Weedy individuals also share the shattering trait with wild rice, but not the ancestral shattering mutation at sh4; thus, how weedy rice reacquired the shattering phenotype is unknown. To establish the morphological basis of the parallel evolution of seed shattering in weedy rice and wild, we examined the abscission layer at the flower-pedicel junction in weedy individuals in comparison with wild and cultivated relatives.
Molecular classification of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) mutants using derivative NIR spectroscopy.	Near-infrared reflectance (NIR) spectroscopy was used in the characterization of grain morphology mutants of barley ( Hordeum vulgare L.) in relation to grain nitrogen (N) content and protein composition. Derivative spectroscopy provided spectra with enhanced resolution, allowing wavelengths to be identified with clear differences in contribution from associated chemical bonds. Comparisons of fourth-derivative spectra of wholemeal flour from high-N grains with flour from low-N grains identified wavelengths at which there were statistically significant differences between the groups. Their importance was independently confirmed by step-up regression using these wavelengths to generate an equation predicting N content (R(2) = 0.98). Fourth-derivative spectral comparisons also allowed novel biochemical differences to be predicted. Visual assessment of the spectra of all mutants revealed a variable region (1470-1520 nm, corresponding to N-H stretch vibrations) that allowed two extreme sets to be defined. The protein extracted from these two sets differed markedly in hordein content.
Seed reserve composition in 19 tree species of a tropical deciduous forest in Mexico and its relationship to seed germination and seedling growth.	The size and composition of seed reserves may reflect the ecological strategy and evolutionary history of a species and also temporal variation in resource availability. The seed mass and composition of seed reserves of 19 co-existing tree species were studied, and we examined how they varied among species in relation to germination and seedling growth rates, as well as between two years with contrasting precipitation (652 and 384 mm).
The same regulatory point mutation changed seed-dispersal structures in evolution and domestication.	It is unclear whether gene regulatory changes that drive evolution at the population and species levels [1-3] can be extrapolated to higher taxonomic levels. Here, we investigated the role of cis-regulatory changes in fruit evolution within the Brassicaceae family. REPLUMLESS (RPL, At5g02030) controls development of the replum, a structure with an important role in fruit opening and seed dispersal [6]. We show that reduced repla resembling the Arabidopsis rpl mutant correlated across the Brassicaceae with a point mutation in a conserved cis-element of RPL. When introduced in Arabidopsis, this nucleotide change specifically reduced RPL expression and function in the fruit. Conversely, Brassica RPL containing the Arabidopsis version of the cis-element was sufficient to convert the Brassica replum to an Arabidopsis-like morphology. A mutation in the same nucleotide position of the same cis-element in a RPL ortholog has been independently selected to reduce seed dispersal during domestication of rice, in spite of its very different fruit anatomy. Thus, single-nucleotide regulatory mutations at the same position explain developmental variation in seed-dispersal structures at the population and family levels and suggest that the same genetic toolkit is relevant to domestication and natural evolution in widely diverged species.
Biodiversity studies in Phaseolus species by DNA barcoding.	The potential of DNA barcoding was tested as a system for studying genetic diversity and genetic traceability in bean germplasm. This technique was applied to several pure lines of Phaseolus vulgaris L. belonging to wild, domesticated, and cultivated common beans, along with some accessions of Phaseolus coccineus L., Phaseolus lunatus L., and Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. A multilocus approach was exploited using three chloroplast genic regions (rbcL, trnL, and matK), four intergenic spacers (rpoB-trnC, atpBrbcL, trnT-trnL, and psbA-trnH), and nuclear ITS1 and ITS2 rDNA sequences. Our main goals were to identify the markers and SNPs that show the best discriminant power at the variety level in common bean germplasm, to examine two methods (tree based versus character based) for biodiversity analysis and traceability assays, and to evaluate the overall utility of chloroplast DNA barcodes for reconstructing the origins of modern Italian varieties. Our results indicate that the neighbor-joining method is a powerful approach for comparing genetic diversity within plant species, but it is relatively uninformative for the genetic traceability of plant varieties. In contrast, the character-based method was able to identify several distinct haplotypes over all target regions corresponding to Mesoamerican or Andean accessions; Italian accessions originated from both gene pools. On the whole, our findings raise some concerns about the use of DNA barcoding for intraspecific genetic diversity studies in common beans and highlights its limitations for resolving genetic relationships between landraces and varieties.
Morphological and reproductive characterization in hyacinth bean, Lablab purpureus (L.) sweet germplasm with clinically proven nutraceutical and pharmaceutical traits for use as a medicinal food.	The hyacinth bean, Lablab purpureus, is used throughout Asia and Africa for human food and medicine with potential to be a source of nutraceuticals and pharmaceuticals. Hyacinth bean accessions were grown in Griffin, Georgia, from 2002 to 2004 and characterized for agronomic traits including branching, foliage, plant size, days to 50% maturity, and seed reproduction. The plants regenerated a range reaching more than 4,000 seeds. Assessment of variation was determined using principal component analysis. This paper also discusses evidence from literature reviews regarding clinical trials supporting possible uses of various hyacinth bean phytochemicals as nutraceuticals and pharmaceuticals. Hyacinth bean seeds and pods could be used as famine food worldwide where humans suffer from malnourishment and disease. The purposes of this study are to characterize regenerating hyacinth bean genetic resources for branching, foliage, plant size, days to 50% maturity, seed production, and flower traits, as well as to discuss evidence from clinical trials supporting potential uses of various hyacinth bean containing phytochemicals as medicinal food, nutraceuticals, and pharmaceuticals.
Relative embryo length as an adaptation to habitat and life cycle in Apiaceae.	• The factors driving the evolution of the relative embryo length in Apiaceae were examined. We tested the hypothesis that seeds with large relative embryo length, because of more rapid germination, are beneficial in dry and open habitats and for short-lived species. We also analyzed to what extent delayed germination as a result of embryo growth can be considered a dormancy mechanism. • Hypotheses were tested by correlating the relative embryo length with other plant traits, habitat and climatic variables. The adaptive nature of the relative embryo length was determined by comparing the performance of a pure drift, Brownian motion (BM) model of trait evolution with that of a selection-inertia, Ornstein-Uhlenbeck (OU) model. • A positive correlation of the relative embryo length with germination speed and negative correlations with the amount of habitat shade, longevity and precipitation were found. An OU model, in which the evolution of longer embryos corresponded to a transition to habitats of high light, or to a short life cycle, outperformed significantly a BM model. • The results indicated that the relative embryo length may have evolved as an adaptation to habitat and life cycle, whereas dormancy was mainly related to temperature at the sampling sites.
Seed terminal velocity, wind turbulence, and demography drive the spread of an invasive tree in an analytical model.	Little is known about the relative importance of mechanistic drivers of plant spread, particularly when long-distance dispersal (LDD) events occur. Most methods to date approach LDD phenomenologically, and all mechanistic models, with one exception, have been implemented through simulation. Furthermore, the few recent mechanistically derived spread models have examined the relative role of different dispersal parameters using simulations, and a formal analytical approach has not yet been implemented. Here we incorporate an analytical mechanistic wind dispersal model (WALD) into a demographic matrix model within an analytical integrodifference equation spread model. We carry out analytical perturbation analysis on the combined model to determine the relative effects of dispersal and demographic traits and wind statistics on the spread of an invasive tree. Models are parameterized using data collected in situ and tested using independent data on historical spread. Predicted spread rates and direction match well the two historical phases of observed spread. Seed terminal velocity has the greatest potential influence on spread rate, and three wind properties (turbulence coefficient, mean horizontal wind speed, and standard deviation of vertical wind speed) are also important. Fecundity has marginal importance for spread rate, but juvenile survival and establishment are consistently important. This coupled empirical/theoretical framework enables prediction of plant spread rate and direction using fundamental dispersal and demographic parameters and identifies the traits and environmental conditions that facilitate spread. The development of an analytical perturbation analysis for a mechanistic spread model will enable multispecies comparative studies to be easily implemented in the future.
Seed dimorphism, nutrients and salinity differentially affect seed traits of the desert halophyte Suaeda aralocaspica via multiple maternal effects.	Maternal effects may influence a range of seed traits simultaneously and are likely to be context-dependent. Disentangling the interactions of plant phenotype and growth environment on various seed traits is important for understanding regeneration and establishment of species in natural environments. Here, we used the seed-dimorphic plant Suaeda aralocaspica to test the hypothesis that seed traits are regulated by multiple maternal effects.
Growth and development of fruit and seed of Panax quinquefolium]	To understand the embryo after-ripening phenomenon of Panax quinquefolium, the growth and development process of fruit and seed was investigated in this study.
QTL mapping of grain weight in rice and the validation of the QTL qTGW3.2.	A recombinant inbred line (RIL) population bred from a cross between a javanica type (cv. D50) and an indica type (cv. HB277) rice was used to map seven quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for thousand grain weight (TGW). The loci were distributed on chromosomes 2, 3, 5, 6, 8 and 10. The chromosome 3 QTL qTGW3.2 was stably expressed over two years, and contributed 9-10% of the phenotypic variance. A residual heterozygous line (RHL) was selected from the RIL population and its selfed progeny was used to fine map qTGW3.2. In this "F2" population, the QTL explained about 23% of the variance, rising to nearly 33% in the subsequent "F2:3" generation. The physical location of qTGW3.2 was confined to a ~556 kb region flanked by the microsatellite loci RM16162 and RM16194. The region also contains other factors influencing certain yield-related traits, although it is also possible that qTGW3.2 affects these in a pleiotropic fashion.
Brassinosteroid regulates seed size and shape in Arabidopsis.	Seed development is important for agriculture productivity. We demonstrate that brassinosteroid (BR) plays crucial roles in determining the size, mass, and shape of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seeds. The seeds of the BR-deficient mutant de-etiolated2 (det2) are smaller and less elongated than those of wild-type plants due to a decreased seed cavity, reduced endosperm volume, and integument cell length. The det2 mutant also showed delay in embryo development, with reduction in both the size and number of embryo cells. Pollination of det2 flowers with wild-type pollen yielded seeds of normal size but still shortened shape, indicating that the BR produced by the zygotic embryo and endosperm is sufficient for increasing seed volume but not for seed elongation, which apparently requires BR produced from maternal tissues. BR activates expression of SHORT HYPOCOTYL UNDER BLUE1, MINISEED3, and HAIKU2, which are known positive regulators of seed size, but represses APETALA2 and AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR2, which are negative regulators of seed size. These genes are bound in vivo by the BR-activated transcription factor BRASSINAZOLE-RESISTANT1 (BZR1), and they are known to influence specific processes of integument, endosperm, and embryo development. Our results demonstrate that BR regulates seed size and seed shape by transcriptionally modulating specific seed developmental pathways. 
MYB56 encoding a R2R3 MYB transcription factor regulates seed size in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Plant seed size is tightly regulated by the development of seed coat, embryo, and endosperm; however, currently, its underlying mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we revealed a regulatory role of an R2R3 MYB transcription factor MYB56 in controlling seed size specifically in Arabidopsis thaliana L. Loss-of-function or knock-down of MYB56 yielded smaller seeds as compared with the wild type. Conversely, overexpression of MYB56 produced larger seeds. Further observation using semi-thin sections showed that myb56 developed smaller contracted endothelial cells and reduced cell number in the outer integument layer of the seed coat during the seed development; by contrast, MYB56 overexpressing lines had expanded endothelial cells and increased cell number in the outer integument layer of the seed coat, suggesting the essential role of MYB56 in regulating seed development. In addition, reciprocal cross-analysis showed that MYB56 affected the seed development maternally. MYB56 was shown to be dominantly expressed in developing seeds, consistently with its function in seed development. Moreover, quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed that MYB56 regulates the expression of genes involved in cell wall metabolism such as cell division and expansion. Altogether, our results demonstrated that MYB56 represents an unknown pathway for positively controlling the seed size. 
LaAP2L1, a heterosis-associated AP2/EREBP transcription factor of Larix, increases organ size and final biomass by affecting cell proliferation in Arabidopsis.	In Larix and in some crops, heterosis is prevalent and has been widely used in breeding to produce excellent varieties. However, the molecular basis of heterosis in Larix remains ambiguous. LaAP2L1, a member of the AP2/EREBP transcription factor family, has been suggested to be involved in heterosis in Larix hybrids. Here, the function and regulation of LaAP2L1 were further explored. Overexpression of LaAP2L1 led to markedly enlarged organs and heterosis-like traits in Arabidopsis. Fresh weight of leaves was almost twice as great as in vector controls. Likewise, seed yield of 35S::LaAP2L1 individual plants was >200% greater than that of control plants. The enlarged organs and heterosis-like traits displayed by 35S::LaAP2L1 plants were mainly due to enhanced cell proliferation and prolonged growth duration. At the molecular level, LaAP2L1 upregulated the expression of ANT, EBP1, and CycD3;1 and inhibited the expression of ARGOS in 35S::LaAP2L1 plants, suggesting an important molecular role of LaAP2L1 in regulating plant organ development. These findings provide new insights into the formation of heterosis in woody plants and suggest that LaAP2L1 has potential applications in breeding high-yielding crops and energy plants. In addition, 50 AP2/EREBP transcription factors, including LaAP2L1, in Larix were identified by transcriptome sequencing, and phylogenetic analysis was conducted. This provided information that will be important in further revealing the functions of these transcription factors. 
Morpho-anatomical characterization of mature embryo-derived callus of rice (Oryza sativa L.) suitable for transformation.	The objective of this study was to morpho-anatomically characterize embryogenic rice calli during early induction of somatic embryogenesis of three Brazilian rice cultivars. Herein, we explored embryogenic units (EUs) from 2-week-old cut proliferated calli to verify whether they were suitable for Agrobacterium tumefasciens-mediated transformation. Histological analysis and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were used to analyze these types of calli during early rice callogenesis in the cultivars BRS Primavera, BRS Bonança, and BRS Caiapó. The characteristics of the embryogenic cells were preserved in the EUs, which showed a globular, compact structure that contained tightly packed cells and thus rendered the cells suitable for transformation. The EUs of BRS Caiapó also maintained the characteristics of the non-embryogenic callus, such as an elongated morphology and a lack of cellular organization. In general, the observations of the histological sections corresponded with those of the SEM images. The histological analysis suggested that all cultivars used in these experiments have morphogenic potential. The EUs from proliferated 2-week-old cut calli maintained their embryogenic features. The EUs were subjected to Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, which exhibited a regeneration frequency of 58 % for transformed hygromycin-resistant cell lines. These results show that EUs from proliferated 2-week-old cut calli are suitable for plant transformation. 
Fine root nitrogen contents and morphological adaptations of alpine plants]	Nitrogen and carbon contents of fine roots were studied for 92 alpine plant species in the Northwest Caucasus. Nitrogen content ranged from 0.43% (Bromus variegatus) to 3.75% (Corydalis conorhiza) with mean value 1.3%. Carbon content ranged from 40.3% (Corydalis conorhiza) to 51.7% (Empetrum nigrum) with mean value 43.4%. C:N ratio was found to be 34:1 which is higher than the worldwide mean. Eudicot's roots had higher N concentration (1.37 +/- 0.07) than monocot's ones (0.95 +/- 0.09). Among the life forms, carbon content increased in the following order: geophytes < hemicriptophytes < chamaephytes. Specific root length positively correlated with nitrogen root content and negatively--with carbon root content. Species with larger leaves and higher specific root area had more nitrogen and less carbon in roots in comparison with species with small leaves. There were positive correlations between leaf and root nitrogen, as well as carbon, contents. Regrowth rate; seed size, aboveground biomass, and vegetation mobility were not related with root nitrogen content. Our results corroborate the poor and rich soil adaptation syndromes. Species of competitive and ruderal (sensu Grime) strategies are more typical for alpine meadows and snow bed communities. They had higher nitrogen contents in leaves and roots, larger leaves with higher water content and higher rate of seed production. On the other hand, stress-tolerant plants had higher carbon and less nitrogen concentrations in their roots and leaves, smaller leaves and specific leaf area.
Genetic analysis and major QTL detection for maize kernel size and weight in multi-environments.	Twelve major QTL in five optimal clusters and several epistatic QTL are identified for maize kernel size and weight, some with pleiotropic will be promising for fine-mapping and yield improvement. Kernel size and weight are important target traits in maize (Zea mays L.) breeding programs. Here, we report a set of quantitative trait loci (QTL) scattered through the genome and significantly controlled the performance of four kernel traits including length, width, thickness and weight. From the cross V671 (large kernel) × Mc (small kernel), 270 derived F2:3 families were used to identify QTL of maize kernel-size traits and kernel weight in five environments, using composite interval mapping (CIM) for single-environment analysis along with mixed linear model-based CIM for joint analysis. These two mapping strategies identified 55 and 28 QTL, respectively. Among them, 6 of 23 coincident were detected as interacting with environment. Single-environment analysis showed that 8 genetic regions on chromosomes 1, 2, 4, 5 and 9 clustered more than 60 % of the identified QTL. Twelve stable major QTLs accounting for over 10 % of phenotypic variation were included in five optimal clusters on the genetic region of bins 1.02-1.03, 1.04-1.06, 2.05-2.07, 4.07-4.08 and 9.03-9.04; the addition and partial dominance effects of significant QTL play an important role in controlling the development of maize kernel. These putative QTL may have great promising for further fine-mapping with more markers, and genetic improvement of maize kernel size and weight through marker-assisted breeding.
Can floral display size compensate for Allee effects caused by low population abundance and density in Synthyris bullii (Plantaginaceae), a rare species?	Conservation seeks to address the issues of small population size, and the reproductive limitations confronting these populations. Sparse, small plant populations often suffer Allee effects such as pollinator limitation. However, some studies show that plants in sparse populations experience reduced resource competition. As a result, these plants may produce larger floral displays, which are also predicted to attract pollinators. The negative impacts from reduced floral quantity may thus be offset by improved floral quality.
Suppression of starch synthase I expression affects the granule morphology and granule size and fine structure of starch in wheat endosperm.	Studies in Arabidopsis and rice suggest that manipulation of starch synthase I (SSI) expression in wheat may lead to the production of wheat grains with novel starch structure and properties. This work describes the suppression of SSI expression in wheat grains using RNAi technology, which leads to a low level of enzymatic activity for SSI in the developing endosperm, and a low abundance of SSI protein inside the starch granules of mature grains. The amylopectin fraction of starch from the SSI suppressed lines showed an increased frequency of very short chains (degree of polymerization, dp 6 and 7), a lower proportion of short chains (dp 8-12), and more intermediate chains (dp 13-20) than in the grain from their negative segregant lines. In the most severely affected line, amylose content was significantly increased, the morphology of starch granules was changed, and the proportion of B starch granules was significantly reduced. The change of the fine structure of the starch in the SSI-RNAi suppression lines alters the gelatinization temperature, swelling power, and viscosity of the starch. This work demonstrates that the roles of SSI in the determination of starch structure and properties are similar among different cereals and Arabidopsis. 
The 'Human Mind' as a common denominator in plant domestication.	The role of conscious versus unconscious selection is a central issue in plant domestication. While some authors hold that domesticated plants arose due to unconscious dynamics driven by selection pressures exerted by the ancient 'cultivation regime', others attribute an indispensable role to conscious and knowledge-based selection as an imperative component of Neolithic Near Eastern plant domestication. Recent experimental work demonstrated that, contrary to commonly held views, deep seed burial as part of the ancient cultivation regime cannot be considered as a general selection pressure underlying the increased seed size of domesticated legumes compared with their wild ancestors. This is a robust conclusion since, in three out of the eight legume species studied from different world regions, there was no association between larger seed size and better seedling emergence from depth. We concur with the authors that these legume crops were most likely under various and multiple (often interacting) selection pressures under domestication, thereby causing the observed parallel/convergent evolution of their larger grain size. However, it is puzzling that these authors did not mention the ever-present common denominator in plant domestication, i.e. conscious human decision-making. In our view, the human 'Mind' and the 'Science of the Concrete' à la Lévi-Strauss deserved to be discussed as an integral component of plant domestication. 
