Complete amino acid sequence of luffin-b, a ribosome-inactivating protein from sponge gourd (Luffa cylindrica) seeds.	The complete amino acid sequence of luffin-b has been determined. All the twenty-seven tryptic peptides were isolated by reverse-phase HPLC from the tryptic digests of intact luffin-b and one of its CNBr fragments (CB4), and sequenced using the DABITC/PITC double coupling method. The overlap of these peptides was achieved by analyzing the CNBr fragments and their chymotryptic peptides. Luffin-b consists of 250 amino acid residues with a relative molecular mass of 27,275 Da. Investigation for glycosylation sites indicated that Asn at positions 2, 78, and 85 might carry sugars. Sequence comparison with luffin-a showed that amino acid substitution occurred in 55 positions. Luffin-b contains three glycosylation sites instead of the six sites in luffin-a, of which two were found to be conserved.
Composition and structure of "group B saponin" in soybean seed.	The composition of "group B saponin" in soybean seed was analyzed by HPLC, and six kinds of "group B saponin," named Ba, Bb, Bb', Bc, Bd and Be according to elution order from HPLC, were detected. Of these saponins, Ba, Bb, Bb' and Bc were identified with soyasaponin V, I, III and II, respectively. Bd and Be were novel saponins possessing soyasapogenol E as the aglycone and the same sugar chain as Ba and Bb, respectively. These saponins were very unstable in the isolated state and had a tendency to form Ba and Bb, respectively. From these results, Bd and Be are presumed to be the precursors of Ba and Bb in soybean seed.
Biochemical effects of heat shock and caffeine on post-irradiation oxic and anoxic damage in barley seeds of low and high water content.	Wet heat shock (60 degrees C, 90 s) and caffeine (3.8 X 10(-4) M) afford significant radioprotection against post-irradiation O2-dependent damage which develops in seeds of approximately 3.5% moisture content. The damage was assessed in terms of seedling injury on the eighth day of growth. An increase in seedling injury is clearly seen, associated with a parallel increase in the peroxidase activity. There is a concomitant decrease in the content of total peroxides. Both these post-irradiation treatments potentiate the O2-independent component of seedling injury, irrespective of the seed moisture content. Analysis of the peroxidase activity in the seedlings using non-denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis reveals that two additional bands appear with the post-irradiation oxic damage. Radioprotection against this damage by caffeine, heat shock and O2-free post-irradiation hydration is accompanied by the disappearance of these two additional bands. However there is no appearance of the two additional bands in the peroxidase family even though the enzyme activity is substantially increased due to the action of caffeine and/or heat shock on the post-irradiation O2-independent pathway of damage. The probable mechanisms of radioprotection are discussed in this paper.
Omega-3 fatty acids: comparison of plant and seafood sources in human nutrition.	Omega-3 Fatty acids (omega-3FAs) are found in seafoods, some plants, and some livestock rations. Fish oils are the only concentrated source of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA; 20:5 omega-3) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA; 22:6 omega-3). The major omega-3FA in plants is alpha-linolenic acid (LNA; 18:3 omega-3). LNA must be converted to EPA before it exerts biological effects similar to EPA, such as reduced platelet aggregation. Human beings convert LNA to EPA to a small extent only. LNA may be more readily oxidized than incorporated into tissues. The effects of consuming LNA-rich oils are more modest than the effects of EPA-rich oils. Evidence suggests that omega-3FAs are essential and highly desirable for brain and eye development and heart health. LNA is the only source of omega-3FAs for vegetarians. Because LNA and EPA are not biologically equivalent, food composition data or product claims mentioning total omega-3FA content must clarify the individual omega-3FAs present.
Chemical synthesis of new trypsin, chymotrypsin and elastase inhibitors by amino-acid substitutions in a trypsin inhibitor from squash seeds (CMTI III).	Five new analogues of squash trypsin inhibitor CMTI III were obtained by the solid-phase method, exhibiting antitrypsin, antichymotrypsin or antielastase activity. Modification in the reactive site region changes dramatically the specificity, whereas substitution in non-contact positions facilitates the refolding of the reduced form of the peptides and does not have a significant influence on the association equilibrium constants of the inhibitor analogues with cognate enzymes.
Limonoid antifeedants from seed of Sandoricum koetjape.	An extract of the seed of Sandoricum koetjape has yielded two new limonoids, sandoricin [1] and 6-hydroxysandoricin [2]. Both compounds are effective antifeedants when incorporated into artificial diets and fed to fall armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda) or European corn borer (Ostrina nubilalis) larvae. Reduced growth rates and increased times to pupation were evident at lower dose levels while significant mortality was noted at higher dose levels. Structures of both compounds were determined by 1H nmr, 13C nmr, and ms and confirmed by X-ray crystallography.
Low-resolution epitope characterisation in a family of seed apolipoproteins using polyclonal antibodies.	Polyclonal antibodies raised against a range of seed apolipoproteins from the family Cruciferae have been used for the first time for low resolution epitope characterisation. Antibodies were raised against the major seed apolipoproteins of Brassica napus, Sinapis alba and Raphanus sativum. In each case, the antibodies recognized, in addition to the 19-20 kDa apolipoprotein to which they were raised, similar 19-20 kDa apolipoproteins from a wide range of species in the family Cruciferae, but not in other plant families. Homologous or heterologous two-sites (sandwich) assays were performed with the format [antibody A - test apolipoprotein - antibody B - 2 degrees antibody]. The results showed a drastically reduced antibody B binding by apolipoproteins preincubated with an antibody A. This indicated the presence of a single major epitope on many of the apolipoproteins. The antigenicity of native and denatured apolipoproteins was similar, although the antigenicity of the former was much more readily destroyed by proteinase attack. It is concluded that there are relatively few major epitopes present on the Cruciferae apolipoproteins and it is suggested that these epitopes are localized on the small hydrophilic surface-exposed C- and N-terminal domains of the apolipoproteins.
Isolation and characterization of amaranthin, a lectin present in the seeds of Amaranthus caudatus, that recognizes the T- (or cryptic T)-antigen.	A lectin (Amaranthin) present in the seeds of Amaranthus caudatus has been isolated by fractionation on DEAE-cellulose followed by affinity chromatography on Synsorb-T beads (Gal beta 1,3GalNAc alpha-O-R-Synsorb). The lectin appeared homogeneous by gel electrophoresis at pH 4.3 and gave a single protein band by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with Mr = 33,000-36,000. A native Mr = 54,000 was determined by gel filtration suggesting that amaranthin exists as a homodimer. Compositional analysis revealed high amounts of acidic and hydroxyamino acids and relatively large amounts of lysine, methionine, and tryptophan for a plant protein. Amaranthin formed a precipitate with asialo-bovine submaxillary mucin, asialo-ovine submaxillary, porcine submaxillary mucin, asialo-fetuin and asialoglycophorin. Hapten inhibition of precipitate formation between amaranthin and asialo-ovine submaxillary indicated that the T-disaccharide and its alpha-linked glycosides (Gal beta 1,3GalNAc alpha-O-R; R = OH, methyl, -(CH2)8-COOCH3, allyl, o-nitrophenyl, or benzyl) were the best inhibitors. N-Acetylgalactosamine, the only monosaccharide which inhibited precipitation, was 350-fold less effective than Gal beta 1,3GalNAc alpha-O-R. Hapten inhibition with derivatives of the T-disaccharide suggested that the C'-4 axial hydroxyl group of the galactosyl moiety, and the C-4 axial hydroxyl group, and the C-2 acetamido group of the GalNAc unit are the most important loci for lectin interaction. NeuAc alpha 2,3Gal beta 1,3GalNAc alpha-O-(CH2)8CO2CH3 was as potent an inhibitor as Gal beta 1,3GalNAc alpha-O-(CH2)8CO2-CH3, and amaranthin was precipitated by NeuAc alpha 2,3Gal beta 1,3GalNAc alpha-O-BSA (where BSA is bovine serum albumin), indicating that the amaranthin-combining site tolerates substitutions at the C'-3 hydroxyl group. Amaranthin was precipitated by a Gal beta 1,3GalNAc alpha-O-BSA glycoconjugate but not by the anomeric Gal beta 1,3GalNAc beta-O-BSA glycoconjugate illustrating that the disaccharide must be linked alpha in order to interact with the lectin. Metal ions do not appear to be required for lectin activity. A study of pH dependence showed significant precipitate formation between pH 4 to 9 with a maximum at pH 5. Hapten inhibition and glycoconjugate precipitation assays were also conducted for peanut (Arachis hypogaea) agglutinin. A comparison between the carbohydrate-binding specificities of amaranthin and peanut (Arachis hypogaea) agglutinin is discussed.
The effect of feeding tall fescue seed infected by Acremonium coenophialum on pregnancy and parturition in female rats.	1. Female Sprague-Dawley rats (Rattus norvegicus) were randomly assigned to various dietary treatments containing: (1) 100% Purina rodent chow, ad libitum; (2) same as 1, but restricted to daily intake of 7; (3) 50% rodent chow (w/w) and 50% endophyte-free tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea) seed; (4) same as 3, but restricted to intake of 5; (5) 50% rodent chow, 25% endophyte-free tall fescue seed and 25% endophyte-infected (Acremonium coenophialum) tall fescue seed; (6) 50% rodent chow, 12.5% endophyte-free and 37.5% endophyte-infected tall fescue seed; and (7) 50% rodent chow and 50% endophyte infected tall fescue seed. 2. Average daily feed intakes and average daily weight gains decreased with higher levels of endophyte infected seed. 3. Frequency of litter production was affected by all endophyte-infected containing diets. 4. Conception was reduced only in dietary treatment (7). 5. Litter weights, number of pups per litter and weight per pup were proportionally reduced as higher levels of infected seed were incorporated in the ingested diets.
Isolation and characterization of a lectin from the roots of Dolichos biflorus.	A lectin has been isolated from the roots of 7-day-old Dolichos biflorus plants and has been compared with the D. biflorus seed lectin. The root lectin differs from the seed lectin in molecular weight, subunit stoichiometry, amino acid composition, amino terminal amino acid sequence, and isoelectric focusing pattern. However, the root lectin has in common with the seed lectin a specificity for N-acetyl-D-galactosamine, and upon denaturation the root lectin will react weakly with antiserum made to denatured seed lectin. Distribution studies of this lectin in germinating seedlings show that the highest levels of lectin are found in 1-day-old roots. Upon dissection and analysis of 7-day-old roots, the highest levels of the lectin are in the uppermost segment. In addition, isoforms of this lectin also exist in the stems and leaves of the plant.
Separable anti-T and anti-Tk lectins from the seeds of Vicia hyrcanica.	Separable anti-T and anti-Tk lectins can be extracted from the seeds of Vicia hyrcanica. The anti-T lectin is similar to that of the peanut, Arachis hypogaea; the anti-Tk lectin compares favourably with that of Griffonia simplicifolia II.
Citreoviridin levels in Eupenicillium ochrosalmoneum-infested maize kernels at harvest.	Citreoviridin contents were measured in eight bulk samples of maize kernels collected from eight fields immediately following harvest in southern Georgia. Citreoviridin contamination in six of the bulk samples ranged from 19 to 2,790 micrograms/kg. In hand-picked samples the toxin was concentrated in a few kernels (pick-outs), the contents of which were stained a bright lemon yellow (range, 53,800 to 759,900 micrograms/kg). The citreoviridin-producing fungus Eupenicillium ochrosalmoneum Scott & Stolk was isolated from each of these pick-out kernels. Citreoviridin was not detected in bulk samples from two of the fields. Aflatoxins were also present in all of the bulk samples (total aflatoxin B1 and B2; range, 7 to 360 micrograms/kg), including those not containing citreoviridin. In Biotron-grown maize ears that were inoculated with E. ochrosalmoneum through a wound made with a toothpick, citreoviridin was concentrated primarily in the wounded and fungus-rotted kernels (range, 142,000 to 2,780,000 micrograms/kg). Samples of uninjured kernels immediately adjacent to the wounded kernel (first circle) had less than 4,000 micrograms of citreoviridin per kg, while the mean concentration of toxin in kernel samples representing the next row removed (second circle) and all remaining kernels from the ear was less than 45 micrograms/kg. Animal toxicosis has not been linked to citreoviridin-contaminated maize.
Rendering the "poppy-seed defense" defenseless: identification of 6-monoacetylmorphine in urine by gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy.	We report a sensitive, rapid, quantitative gas chromatographic/mass spectroscopic method for measuring the 6-monoacetylmorphine (6-MAM) metabolite of heroin in 0.5 mL of human urine. After a simple liquid-liquid extraction and derivatization, the trimethylsilyl derivative of 6-MAM is identified from its retention time (total ion current) and by selected ion monitoring. The limit of detection was 10 micrograms/L, corresponding to 0.2 ng of trimethylsilyl-6-MAM injected into the gas chromatograph/mass spectrometer. The presence of 6-MAM in urine is indicative of heroin. 6-MAM is not present in poppy seeds or in urine after the ingestion of products containing poppy seed.
Studies on Egyptian cottonseeds: fatty acid-composition and protein patterns.	Fourteen Egyptian cottonseed varieties were analysed to study some properties of their lipids and proteins. Lipid contents of the kernels ranged from 29.0 to 35.1%. The mean value of the iodine number was 110.9. The tested varieties showed little or no differences regarding to their fatty acid content. A slight higher proportion of linoleic acid was recorded for the triglycerides whereas the polar lipids components contained a lower amount of this fatty acids compared to that found in the total lipids. Protein contents in the examined varieties ranged from 32.3 to 37.9%. The amount of water-soluble protein ranged from 12.8 to 23.0% of the total protein. An almost complete recovery (94.5-100%) of the total protein was yielded when the extraction was performed with 0.02 N NaOH instead of water. The electrophoretic patterns of the water-soluble proteins gave only two bands, having a molecular weight between 14,000 and 25,000 dalton. A clear differentiation between the varieties was noticed when the alkaline soluble protein extracts were subjected to electrophoresis. Accordingly, the examined varieties were classified into five groups each of them having a similar spectrum.
Developmental, organ-specific, and light-dependent expression of the tomato ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase small subunit gene family.	The tomato gene family for the small subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase [3-phospho-D-glycerate carboxy-lyase (dimerizing); EC 4.1.1.39] has five genes, designated Rbcs-1, -2, -3A, -3B, and -3C. We have measured the steady-state mRNA levels for each of the five genes in various tomato organs using gene-specific oligonucleotides. All five genes are highly expressed in leaves, and transcripts of two genes, Rbcs-3B and Rbcs-3C, account for approximately equal to 60% of the total leaf transcripts. The relative transcript levels in the stem, in nature fruits, and etiolated seedlings (plants germinated and grown in the dark) correspond to 3.2%, 6.5%, and 4.6%, respectively, of the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase small subunit mRNA level in leaves, and no transcripts have been detected in roots and ripe tomato fruits. Only Rbcs-1 and Rbcs-2 are expressed during the photosynthetically active phase of fruit development. Transcripts from these genes and from the Rbcs-3A locus are also present in etiolated seedlings. Rbcs-3B and Rbcs-3C transcripts, which are the most abundant mRNAs of the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase small subunit gene family in the leaf, are undetectable in dark-grown seedlings and immature fruit. The selective expression of Rbcs-1 and Rbcs-2 in the dark and in the pericarp of green fruit and the induction and rapid mRNA accumulation for Rbcs-3B and Rbcs-3C after illumination may reflect different regulatory mechanism(s) that control the expression of individual members in the tomato ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase small subunit gene family.
Molecular cloning of a cysteine proteinase inhibitor of rice (oryzacystatin). Homology with animal cystatins and transient expression in the ripening process of rice seeds.	A cDNA clone for a cysteine proteinase inhibitor of rice (oryzacystatin) was isolated from a lambda gt10 cDNA library of rice immature seeds by screening with synthesized oligonucleotide probes based on partial amino acid sequences of oryzacystatin. A nearly full-length cDNA clone was obtained which encoded 102-amino acid residues. The amino acid sequence of oryzacystatin deduced from the cDNA sequence was significantly homologous to those of mammalian cystatins, especially family 2 cystatins. Oryzacystatin contained the sequence Gln-Val-Val-Ala-Gly conserved among most members of the cystatin superfamily. The gene for oryzacystatin was transcribed into a single mRNA species of about 700 nucleotides. The content of mRNA reached its highest level 2 weeks after flowering and then gradually decreased to undetectable levels at 10 weeks. This feature of transient expression is coordinate with that of glutelin (a major storage protein), although the expression of oryzacystatin precedes that of glutelin by about 1 week.
Isolation and characterization of a novel haemoprotein b-559 from Bengal gram (Cicer arietinum).	A haemoprotein was purified to apparent homogeneity from Bengal-gram seeds. The purified protein exhibited an absorption maximum at 412 nm (Soret band) that upon reduction with dithionite gave rise to a shift in the Soret band to 426 nm with concomitant appearance of an alpha-band at 559 nm and a beta-band at 530 nm. In the reduced state the Bengal-gram haemoprotein showed reactivity towards CO, nitrite and hydroxylamine. SDS/polyacrylamide-slab-gel electrophoresis showed that the haemoprotein has Mr 78,000. Gel-filtration and ultracentrifugal analyses suggest that the Bengal-gram haemoprotein is oligomeric in nature. Since it differs from photosynthetic membrane cytochrome b-559 in solubility in buffer, in reactivity towards CO and in molecular size, it appears to be a novel haemoprotein b-559.
Structure of a sugar chain of a protease inhibitor isolated from barbados pride (Caesalpinia pulcherrima Sw.) seeds.	An asparagine-linked sugar chain of a protease inhibitor from barbados pride (Caesalpinia pulcherrima Sw.) was liberated by hydrazinolysis. After N-acetylation, the reducing end residue of this carbohydrate unit was coupled with 2-aminopyridine and the pyridylamino (PA-) derivative was purified by gel-filtration and reversed-phase HPLC. The structure of the resulting PA-sugar chain was determined mainly by stepwise exoglycosidase digestions and 500 MHz 1H-NMR spectroscopy and proved to be as follows: (formula; see text).
Orange juice quality with an emphasis on flavor components.	This review studies the chemistry of the flavor of citrus juices with emphasis on the components of the flavor of orange juice and their origin in the different parts of the orange fruit. Citrus processing and the nature of the various products as they affect flavor are discussed. The composition of peel oil, aroma oil, orange juice, orange essence, and orange essence oil is presented. The relationship between flavor and color are discussed and the role of lipid components as they affect flavor stability and off-flavors are described. Spoilage resulting from microbes is briefly treated. The nutritional value of orange juice is cited.
Gene for improved nutritional value in barley seed protein.	Genetically dependent 20 to 30 percent increase in lysine per 16 grams of nitrogen results in improved nutritional values in feeding trials with mice and rats. The recessive gene was selected from the World Barley Collection. Other amino acids are also influenced by the gene. Protein content segregates independently of the changed amino acid pattern. The gene putatively influences the matrix proteins, which characteristically adhere to the starch grains in meal preparations. The morphological character permits rapid microscopic screening of single seeds without affecting viability. Low yield is considerably improved by crossing and selection.
Chemical composition of winged bean (Psophocarpus tetragonolobus) varieties.	The chemical composition of dry seeds of four varieties, pods, stalks and leaves of winged beans (Psophocarpus tetragonolobus) was determined. The seeds had a high range of protein (27.8-36.6%) and fat (14.8-17.9%), which were similar to soybeans. the seeds contained high phosphorus, calcium and magnesium. The leaf was highest in protein content (33.7%) of all the parts studied except for the seeds. The protein and fat content of pods decreased as pods ripened. the calcium content in the leaf was much higher than in the other parts. Protein was extracted sequentially with 2% NaCl, 30% isopropyl alcohol, 4% lactic acid and 0.5% KOH from dry seeds of four varieties of winged beans. The NaCl extract showed the highest range of protein concentration (60.2-77.6%). The NaCl extract was separated into two fractions based on solubility in water. the amino acid composition of the flour from the seeds and of the two fractions from the NaCl extract were determined. Contents of lysine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid and leucine were large, while the sulfur-amino acid content was small. Trypsin and chymotrypsin inhibitory activities of 2% NaCl extract from the seeds were determined, and chymotrypsin inhibitory activity was higher than the trypsin.
Ribosome-inactivating proteins from the seeds of Saponaria officinalis L. (soapwort), of Agrostemma githago L. (corn cockle) and of Asparagus officinalis L. (asparagus), and from the latex of Hura crepitans L. (sandbox tree).	Ribosome-inactivating proteins, similar to those already known [Barbieri & Stirpe (1982) Cancer Surveys 1, 489-520] were purified from the seeds of Saponaria officinalis (two proteins), of Agrostemma githago (three proteins), and of Asparagus officinalis (three proteins), and from the latex of Hura crepitans (one protein). The yield ranged from 8 to 400 mg/100 g of starting material. All proteins have an Mr of approx. 30000 and an alkaline isoelectric point. Their sugar content varies from 0 (proteins from S. officinalis) to 40% (protein from H. crepitans). The ribosome-inactivating proteins inhibit protein synthesis by rabbit reticulocyte lysate, the ID50 (concentration giving 50% inhibition) ranging from 1 ng/ml (a protein from S. officinalis) to 18 ng/ml (a protein from A. githago). Those which were tested (the proteins from S. officinalis and from A. githago) also inhibit polymerization of phenylalanine by isolated ribosomes, acting in an apparently catalytic manner. The protein from H. crepitans inhibited protein synthesis by HeLa cells, with an ID50 of 4 micrograms/ml, whereas the proteins from S. officinalis and from A. githago had an ID50 of more than 50-100 micrograms/ml. The ribosome-inactivating proteins from S. officinalis and from A. githago reduced the number of local lesions by tobacco-mosaic virus in the leaves of Nicotiana glutinosa.
Chemical composition, amino acid content and nutritive value of the protein of the annatto seed (Bixa orellana, L.)]	On several occasions, many Latin American countries have shown interest in the economic potential of industrializing the exploitation of the pigment in Annatto seed (Bixa orellana, L) used as a natural coloring agent in the food industry. Production of the pigment leaves the seed as a by-product, which once characterized chemically and nutritionally, could contribute to a more profitable exploitation of Annatto seed. The main objective of the present study was to obtain information in regard to this matter. The results of chemical analyses of the seed showed a relatively high amount of protein, which fluctuated between 13 and 17%. Crude fiber levels were also high, about 16%; however, more than 50% of this fiber can be eliminated through sifting of the seed flour. This operation also increases protein content. Annatto seeds have a high phosphorus and a low calcium content. Its protein contains adequate levels of tryptophan and lysine, but is low in methionine, isoleucine, leucine, phenylalanine and threonine. The protein quality of Annatto seed flour was about 65% that of casein, which was used as reference protein. Partly responsible for this low biological value are the amino acid deficiencies, mainly that of methionine, and the low digestibility of the protein. The latter was 57% as compared to 94% for casein, a finding which can be attributed to the crude fiber content of Annatto seed flour, since partial elimination of the fiber resulted in an increase in digestibility up to a value of 65%. In order to utilize more effectively this potential feedstuff in combination with other feeds, further studies should confirm the amino acid deficiencies and digestibility of the Annatto seed protein.
Five alpha-D-galactopyranosyl-binding isolectins from Bandeiraea simplicifolia seeds.	The alpha-D-galactopyranosyl-binding lectin previously purified from Bandeiraea simplicifolia seeds (Hayes, C.H., and Goldstein, I.J. (1974) J. Biol. Chem. 249, 1904) is shown to consist of five isolectins separable on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis at pH 9.5. The isolectins are tetrameric structures composed of various combinations of two different glycoprotein subunits designated A and B. The A and B subunits appear to be immunochemically indistinguishable against rabbit antisera prepared from the isolectin mixture. The A subunit contains no methionine, whereas the B subunit contains 1 residue. The subunits migrate differently on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate and, although each subunit contains 1 residue of cysteine, they react differently toward 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid). The carbohydrate binding specificity of the two subunits differs significantly: the A subunit exhibits a primary specificity for alpha-D-GalNAcp but also reacts with alpha-D-Galp units, whereas the B subunit shows a sharp specificity toward alpha-D-Galp residues. The differences in carbohydrate binding specificity were exploited in separating the isolectins. B. simplicifolia I isolectins (A4) and (A3B) were purified on a Bio-Gel melibionate column, and (A2B2), (AB3), and (B4) were separated on a column of insolubilized blood group A substance.
Structural studies of the carbohydrate moieties of lectins from potato (Solanum tuberosum) tubers and thorn-apple (Datura stramonium) seeds.	1. Methylation analysis of potato (Solanum tuberosum) lectin and thorn-apple (Datura stramonium) lectin confirmed previous conclusions that both glycoproteins contained high proportions of l-arabinofuranosides and lesser amounts of d-galactopyranosides. The arabinofuranosides are present in both lectins as short unbranched chains containing 1-->2- and 1-->3-linkages, which are known to be linked to hydroxyproline. Galactopyranosides are present as monosaccharides, which are known to be attached to serine, in potato lectin and as both the monosaccharide and the 1-->3-linked disaccharide in Datura lectin. 2. Alkaline digestion of potato lectin and subsequent separation of the components by gel filtration led to the isolation of four fractions corresponding to the mono-, di-, tri- and tetra-arabinosides of hydroxyproline. The latter two fractions accounted for over 70% of the total hydroxyproline. 3. Methylation analysis was used to show that the triarabinoside contained only 1-->2-linkages between sugars, but that the tetra-arabinoside contained both 1-->2- and 1-->3-linkages. Direct-insertion mass spectrometry of these compounds using electron impact and chemical ionization, in a comparison with other known structural patterns, was used to determine the sequences of the sugars, which were Araf1-->2Araf1-->2Araf1-->Hyp and Araf1-->3Araf1-->2Araf1-->2Araf 1-->Hyp. 4. On the basis of optical rotation it had previously been suggested [Allen, Desai, Neuberger & Creeth (1978) Biochem. J.171, 665-674] that all the arabinose of potato lectin was present as the beta-l-furanoside. However, measurement of the optical rotations of the hydroxyprolyl arabinosides showed that whereas the diarabinoside had a molar rotation ([m]) value close to that predicted, the triarabinoside was more dextrorotatory and the tetra-arabinoside was less dextrorotatory than expected. Possible explanations for these findings are that, although the di- and tri-arabinosides contain exclusively beta-arabinofuranosides, in the tri-arabinoside, interactions between pentose units lead to an enhanced positive rotation. The tetra-arabinoside, however, is proposed to contain a single alpha-arabinofuranoside residue, which is responsible for the lower than expected positive rotation. The observed rotation of the tetra-arabinoside was found to be close to the theoretical value predicted on that basis. Furthermore, the action of a specific alpha-arabinofuranosidase on the tetrasaccharide was to remove a single arabinose residue, presumably the terminal non-reducing sugar, and to produce a product that was indistinguishable on electrophoresis from the triarabinoside. Changes in rotation were compatible with this assumption. 5. It is concluded that the structures of the hydroxyprolyl tri- and tetra-arabinosides of potato lectin are: betaAraf1-->2betaAraf1-->2betaAraf1-->Hyp and alphaAraf1-->3betaAraf1-->2betaAraf 1-->2betaAraf1-->Hyp. These are identical with compounds that have been isolated from the insoluble hydroxyproline-rich glycoproteins of plant cell walls.
Microbial hazards associated with bean sprouting.	The behaviour of microorganisms was studied in mung beans and alfalfa seeds before and after germination in modified, commercially available bean-sprouting kits. The microorganism were enumerated by the aerobic plate count (APC) and by total yeast and mold count procedures. Salmonella species were artificially inoculated into selected samples and were enumerated by the most probable number (MPN) method. After germination of the beans or seeds into mature sprouts, significant increases were noted in APCs and in MPN values of Salmonella species. Although counts of yeasts and molds did not increase significantly after germination, these samples show an increase in toxic Aspergillus flavus and potentially toxic Alternaria species. The presence of toxic Penicillium cyclopium molds also increase substantially in 5 samples of a single brand of mung beans. Analysis of selected sprout samples, however, showed no presence of aflatoxin.
Trypsin inhibitor from Gleditsia triacanthos L. seeds]	The trypsin inhibitor from Gleditsia triacanthos (L.) seeds was purified by affinity chromatography on a column with trypsin-Sepharose 4B. The isolated inhibitor is a single-chain protein with molecular weight of about 20 000. The inhibitor suppresses bovine trypsin at a molar rate of 1 : 1, but weakly inhibits chymotrypsin in a non-stoichiometric manner. Some properties of the isolated inhibitor closely resembled those of soybean trypsin inhibitor (Kunitz).
Nutritional evaluation of the germ meal and its protein isolate obtained from the carob seed (Ceratonia siliqua) in the rat.	1. Evaluation of the germ meal (CGM) of carob seed (Ceratonia siliqua) and its protein isolate was carried out with weanling rats. Comparisons were made with casein, soya-bean meal, whole defatted egg and a soya-bean protein isolate (Promine-D) as protein sources. The growth-promoting effects and certain biological indices were evaluated using the protein efficiency ratio (PER), biological value (BV) and net protein utilization (NPU) bioassay procedures. 2. The unsupplemented CGM had a PER of 1.66 +/- 0.09 and an NPU of 0.58 +/- 0.013. Addition of DL-methionine at 4, 8 and 12 g/kg diet resulted in a PER of 1.95 +/- 0.11, 2.01 +/- 0.11 and 1.90 +/- 0.11 respectively. The corresponding BV values were 0.80 +/- 0.003, 0.78 +/- 0.015 and 0.74 +/- 0.011, and those for NPU 0.69 +/- 0.013, 0.66 +/- 0.026 and 0.63 +/- 0.020 respectively. The addition of amino acids improved the PER (2.24--2.59), BV (0.78--0.79) and NPU (0.71--0.73) values. 3. The BV and NPU assays for the unsupplemented carob germ isolate were low (BV 0.36 +/- 0.016, NPU 0.35 +/- 0.015). Supplementation with amino acids resulted in a positive increase with values of 0.66 +/- 0.013 and 0.64 +/- 0.013 for BV and NPU respectively.
Studies in neutron mutagenesis in maize. --Effects of dose fractionation and cell moisture status on mutation induction.	Pollen grains of Bz strain of maize were exposed to 14 MeV neutrons with single or fractioated treatments, and pollinated on the recessive stock. Mutation frequency from Bz to bz was observed after harvest of F1 seeds. No clear difference in the mutation frequencies between single and fractionation series was observed. To investigate the effects of water content upon mutation frequency of neutron and gamma-rays, seeds heterozygous for the Yg2-gene were used. Moisture-stabilized (13%) seeds and seeds steeped in water for 24 hrs were exposed to neutrons or to gamma-rays, and mutation from Yg2 to yg2 was detected as color change green to yellow-green in the seedlings. In the gamma-ray treatments, the mutation frequency of wet seeds was about 1.5 times higher than that of corresponding lot of dry seeds. In the neutron treatment, on the other hand, no clear difference in frequency between wet and dry seeds was observed. It may be concluded that no change or no recovery in neutron-induced mutationwas observed not only in the fractionation treatment but also in the dry and wet seeds treatments.
A fucogalactoxyloglucan from rapeseed hulls.	A polysaccharide, isolated from rapeseed hulls by extraction with aqueous sodium hydroxide-sodium tetraborate, contained residues of L-arabinose, L-fucose, D-xylose, D-galactose, and D-glucose in the proportions of 2:8:25:13:52. Acetolysis furnished cellobiose, 6-O-alpha-D-xylopyranosyl-D-glucose, and 2-O-beta-D-galactopyranosyl D-xylose. The cleavage products from the methylated polysaccharide were examined by g.l.c. of the methyl glycosides and g.l.c.-mass spectrometry of the partially methylated, alditol acetates. The results show that the polysaccharide is a member of the xyloglucan group in which additional fucose and galactose residues terminate some of the side-chains. For comparative purposes, aspects of the structures of xyloglucans from nasturtium seeds and suspension-cultured sycamore cells have been re-examined.
Appearance of poly(A)-rich RNA in germinating pea seeds.	1. The affinity chromatography on poly(U)-Sepharose 4B provided evidence for the absence of poly(A)-rich fragments in RNA from embryo axes of dry pea seeds, and for appearance of these fragments after 2 h of swelling. 2. The percentage of the poly(A)-rich RNA fraction remained unchanged in the initial phase of germination (up to 68 h). 3. The poly(A)-rich RNA fraction was found to promote protein synthesis in vitro more than did the poly(A)-poor fraction. 4. Ribonuclease A and T1-resistant fragments isolated from the poly(A)-rich RNA contain 70-80 nucleotides, 78% of which are adenine nucleotides. 5. It seems that polyadenylation of a part of mRNA preexisting in dry pea seeds precedes the initiation of protein biosynthesis.
Study on the biological effect of fast neutrons 1. Effect of fast neutrons on germinability of barley seeds and on the chlorophyll content of the seedlings according to the dose used.	Barley seeds were irradiated in the active zone of the reactor at 500 watt, at favourable flux of fast neutrons in the dose interval of 823--2144 rad. Seeds after irradiation were "cooled" for 48 hours, then germinated, and the length of shoots of the seven days old seedings was measured. The value of the half lethal dose is 1130 rad, estimated from the growth curve. There is a well-defined relation of chlorophyll content (calculated for fresh weight unit) to the dose used. It was concluded from the phenotype of the leaves that the decrease of chlorophyll content was due first of all to the presence of chlorophyll-less cells and cell lines and not to the decrease of chlorophyll content of the individual cells. Irradiation yielded genetically defected cells.
