Molecular cloning and characterisation of a maize cDNA for a homologue of the large subunit of the eukaryotic initiation factor 3 (eIF3).	In order to identify genes that are specifically expressed in distinct cell populations of the maize root apex, we have constructed PCR-directed cDNA libraries from microdissected populations of cells, and screened them by differential hybridisation. A meristem-specific cDNA was isolated and characterised. This cDNA, termed ZmeIF3A, encodes a protein homologous to the large subunit of the eukaryotic translation Initiation Factor 3 (eIF3), which is an essential multi-protein complex for the initiation of protein synthesis. The ZmeIF3A protein is most similar to the yeast homologue RPG1, lacking the repeated C-terminal domain characteristic of its mammalian counterparts. However, despite this similarity, it fails to replace the RPG1 protein in complementation experiments on yeast mutants. Analysis of gene expression in situ showed that the ZmeIF3A transcript is expressed in the region of the root meristem surrounding the central stele. ZmeIF3A mRNA is also expressed in the young root, the male inflorescence, and the developing cob and seed. In maize, ZmeIF3A is encoded by one or two genomic sequences. This is the first report on the isolation and characterisation of a cDNA from higher plants that encodes a product homologous to a component of the eIF3 complex.
The influence of space flight factors on the growth and development of super dwarf wheat cultivated in greenhouse Svet]	In 1996-1997 an experiment with super dwarf wheat (Greenhouse-2) was made aboard the orbital complex MIR as a part of the MIR-NASA space science program. The article deals with the main production and morphometric characteristics of plants that completed their vegetation cycle in the space flight. Lengths of the whole cycle of vegetation and its individual stages were essentially same as in ground control experiments. Dry mass of one plants equal, the number of headed shoots was in 2.7 times less in the flight harvest as compared with the control. The height of shoots was reduced by one half. No seeds were found in the heads formed in space. The architecture of heads was substantially different from what had been observed in the preceeding ground control experiments: mass of the heads was halved and lengths of inflorescence and palea awn shortened. The number of spikelets in a head reduced up to 8-10 vs. 13-14 in the controls, whereas the number of florets per a spikelet averaged 5 vs. 3 in the controls. The experiments showed that mainly the most profound changes in the productive and morphometric parameters of the super dwarf wheat plants were largely caused by the phytotoxic effects of ethylene rather than spaceflight specific factors as its concentrations in the MIR air amount to 0.3-1.8 mg/m3.
Regional localization of suspensor mRNAs during early embryo development.	We investigated gene activity within the giant embryos of the scarlet runner bean (Phaseolus coccineus) to gain understanding of the processes by which the apical and basal cells become specified to follow different developmental pathways after division of the zygote. We identified two mRNAs, designated G564 and C541, that accumulate specifically within the suspensor of globular-stage embryos. G564 mRNA accumulates uniformly throughout the suspensor, whereas C541 mRNA accumulates to a higher level within the large basal cells of the suspensor that anchor the embryo to the surrounding seed tissue. Both G564 and C541 mRNAs begin to accumulate shortly after fertilization and are present within the two basal cells of embryos at the four-cell stage. In contrast, at the same stage, these mRNAs are not detectable within the two descendants of the apical cell. Nor are they detectable within cells of the embryo sac before fertilization, including the egg cell. We used a G564/beta-glucuronidase reporter gene to show that the G564 promoter is activated specifically within the basal region and suspensor of preglobular tobacco embryos. Analysis of the G564 promoter identified a sequence domain required for transcription within the suspensor that contains several copies of a conserved motif. These results show that derivatives of the apical and basal cells transcribe different genes as early as the four-cell stage of embryo development and suggest that the apical and basal cells are specified at the molecular level after division of the zygote.
Responses of dispersal agents to tree and fruit traits in Virola calophylla (Myristicaceae): implications for selection.	Variation in traits affecting seed dispersal in plants has been attributed to selection exerted by dispersal agents. The potential for such selection was investigated in Virola calophylla (Myristicaceae) in Manú National Park, Peru, through identification of seed dispersal agents and of tree and fruit traits significantly affecting the quantity of seeds dispersed. Seventeen bird and one primate species (the spider monkey, Ateles paniscus) dispersed its seeds. Spider monkeys dispersed the majority of seeds (a minimum of 83% of all dispersed seeds). Visitation by dispersal agents depended only on the quantity of ripe fruit available during a tree observation. In contrast, seed removal increased with both greater quantity of ripe fruit and aril: seed ratio. When analyzed separately, seed removal by birds increased only with greater aril: seed ratio, whereas seed removal by spider monkeys was affected by the quantity of ripe fruit and phenological stage. The finding that dispersal agents responded differently to some tree and fruit traits indicates not only that dispersal agents can exert selection on traits affecting seed dispersal, but also that the resulting selection pressures are likely to be inconsistent. This conclusion is supported by the result that the proportion of the seed crop that was dispersed from individual trees, which accounted for cumulative dispersal by all agents, was not influenced by any tree or fruit trait evaluated. Comparing these results with those from studies of V. sebifera and V. nobilis in Panama revealed that the disperser assemblages of these three Virola species were congruent in their similar taxonomic representation. In Panama the proportion of V. nobilis seed crop dispersed was related positively to aril: seed ratio and negatively to seed mass, a result not found for V. calophylla in Peru. The greater importance of dispersal by primates versus birds in V. calophylla, relative to V. nobilis, may explain this difference. Thus, variation in disperser assemblages at regional scales can be another factor contributing to inconsistency in disperser-mediated selection on plant traits.
Use of serial analysis of gene expression technology to reveal changes in gene expression in Arabidopsis pollen undergoing cold stress.	We have characterized the global gene expression patterns of Arabidopsis pollen using Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (SAGE). A total of 21,237 SAGE tags were sequenced and 4,211 unique tags were identified. Interestingly, the number of unique tags in pollen was low compared with the SAGE library of the leaf constructed on a similar scale. The transcript profiles of pollen reflect accurately the characteristics of pollen as a reproductive organ. Functional classification of the expressed genes reveals that those involved in cellular biogenesis such as polygalacturonase, pectate lyase, and pectin methylesterase make up more than 40% of the total transcripts. However, genes involved in energy and protein synthesis, which are prevalent in leaves, were expressed at a relatively low level. The expression level of the great majority of transcripts was unaffected by cold treatment at 0 degrees C for 72 h, whereas pollen tube growth and seed production were substantially reduced. Interestingly, many genes thought to be responsible for cold acclimation such as COR, lipid transfer protein, and beta-amylase, that are highly induced in Arabidopsis leaves, were only expressed at their normal level or weakly induced in the pollen. The expression patterns of the cold-responsive transcripts identified by SAGE were confirmed by microarray analysis. Our results strongly suggest that poor accumulation of proteins that play a role in stress tolerance may be why Arabidopsis pollen is cold sensitive.
Analysis of natural allelic variation at seed dormancy loci of Arabidopsis thaliana.	Arabidopsis accessions differ largely in their seed dormancy behavior. To understand the genetic basis of this intraspecific variation we analyzed two accessions: the laboratory strain Landsberg erecta (Ler) with low dormancy and the strong-dormancy accession Cape Verde Islands (Cvi). We used a quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping approach to identify loci affecting the after-ripening requirement measured as the number of days of seed dry storage required to reach 50% germination. Thus, seven QTL were identified and named delay of germination (DOG) 1-7. To confirm and characterize these loci, we developed 12 near-isogenic lines carrying single and double Cvi introgression fragments in a Ler genetic background. The analysis of these lines for germination in water confirmed four QTL (DOG1, DOG2, DOG3, and DOG6) as showing large additive effects in Ler background. In addition, it was found that DOG1 and DOG3 genetically interact, the strong dormancy determined by DOG1-Cvi alleles depending on DOG3-Ler alleles. These genotypes were further characterized for seed dormancy/germination behavior in five other test conditions, including seed coat removal, gibberellins, and an abscisic acid biosynthesis inhibitor. The role of the Ler/Cvi allelic variation in affecting dormancy is discussed in the context of current knowledge of Arabidopsis germination.
Cryopreservation of ovules and somatic embryos of citrus using the encapsulation-dehydration technique.	Cryopreservation of ovules and somatic embryos from several genotypes of citrus was achieved using the encapsulation-dehydration technique. Survival of cryopreserved ovules was occasional and erratic after different pregrowth conditions in liquid medium with 0.75M, 1M or up to 1.25M sucrose. An efficient cryopreservation protocol was established for somatic embryos derived from two embryogenic sources (ovules and cut thin layer explants from stigma, style and ovaries). High survival rates (75-100%) were consistently obtained after 1 day pregrowth in 0.75M sucrose, desiccation down to 20-25% moisture content in the beads and direct immersion in liquid nitrogen. The histological study showed that embryos subjected to the encapsulation-dehydration, accumulated high sucrose levels which appear to ensure the recovery of the whole embryo after cryopreservation.
Reproductive uncertainty and the relative competitiveness of simultaneous hermaphroditism versus dioecy.	Hermaphroditism is typically associated with a sedentary existence, whereas dioecy is associated with mobility. This pattern is reflected within flowering plants, as dioecious species commonly possess traits that promote high dispersal. We investigated these associations with three population dynamics models (an individual-based simulation and two mathematical models, one deterministic and the other stochastic) that allowed us to examine competition for space between a hermaphroditic and dioecious species from different perspectives. The competing species are identical in every way but their sexual system. Separation of the sexes increases the variances of pollen import and seed dispersal for the dioecious species. These variances propagate through subsequent reproductive processes and ultimately reduce mean recruitment as a result of nonlinear averaging (Jensen's inequality). A dioecious species could overcome this disadvantage simply by producing more gametes than hermaphrodites; however, in line with the association with mobility, selection on dioecious species should also favor traits that reduce reproductive uncertainty, such as extensive dispersal.
Nucleotide sequence of cDNA for Acacia confusa trypsin inhibitor and implication of post-translation processing.	Synthetic oligonucleotides corresponding to all possible sequences of N-terminal and C-terminal region of Acacia confusa trypsin inhibitor were used to generate ACTI-related sequences using the polymerase chain reaction on the cDNAs encoding ACTI of the seeds of legume, A. confusa. The deduced amino acid sequence agreed with that determined by the peptide analysis except an extra amino acid residue, serine, was found at the junction of A and B chain, which was removed by post-translation processing with specific protease(s). The substrate specificity of the protease(s) was found to cleave at the C-terminal sites of asparagine and serine, which was also shown to be the same case for another plant protein, abrin, isolated from legume, Abrus precatorius.
Transgenic Pinus radiata from Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of cotyledons.	A method for Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of Pinus radiata cotyledon explants was developed using commercially available open-pollinated seed. Pinus radiata is the most widely planted commercial conifer species in the Southern Hemisphere. Reports on transformation of this species have relied on particle bombardment of embryogenic callus derived from immature embryos. The main drawback to the method is the small number of genotypes that are amenable to transformation and regeneration. Since more than 80% of genotypes of radiata pine can be regenerated using cotyledons from mature seed, cotyledon explants were cocultivated with A. tumefaciens strain AGL1 containing a plasmid coding for the neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII) gene and the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene (uidA). Transformed shoots were selected using either geneticin or kanamycin. Critical factors for successful transformation were survival of the cotyledons after cocultivation and selection parameters. Of the 105 putative transformants that were recovered from selection media, 70% were positive for integration of the nptII gene when analysed by PCR. GUS histochemical assay for uidA expression was unreliable because of reaction inhibition by unidentified compounds in the pine needles. Further, only 4 of the 26 independent transformants characterised by PCR and Southern analysis contained an intact copy of both genes. The remaining 22 transformants appeared to have a truncated or rearranged copy of the T-DNA. It is possible that the truncation/rearrangements are due to the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Analysis of the T-DNA junction sites and sequencing of the introduced DNA will help elucidate the nature of T-DNA insertion so that genetic modification of radiata pine can be targeted effectively.
Dormancy release during hydrated storage in Lolium rigidum seeds is dependent on temperature, light quality, and hydration status.	The influence of temperature, light environment, and seed hydration on the rate of dormancy release in Lolium rigidum (annual ryegrass) seeds during hydrated storage (stratification) was investigated. In a series of experiments, seeds were subjected to a range of temperatures (nine between 5 degrees C and 37 degrees C), light (white, red, far-red, and dark), and hydration (4-70 g H(2)O 100 g(-1) FW) during stratification for up to 80 d. Samples were germinated periodically at 25/15 degrees C or constant 15, 20, or 25 degrees C with a 12 h photoperiod to determine dormancy status. Dark-stratification was an alternative, but not equivalent dormancy release mechanism to dry after-ripening in annual ryegrass seeds. Dormancy release during dark-stratification caused a gradual increase in sensitivity to light, but germination in darkness remained negligible. Germination, but not dormancy release, was greater under fluctuating diurnal temperatures than the respective mean temperatures delivered constantly. Dormancy release rate was a positive linear function of dark-stratification temperature above a base temperature for dormancy release of 6.9 degrees C. Dormancy release at temperatures up to 30 degrees C could be described in terms of thermal dark-stratification time, but the rate of dormancy release was slower at < or =15 degrees C (244 degrees Cd/probit increase in germination) than > or =20 degrees C (208 degrees Cd/probit). Stratification in red or white, but not far-red light, inhibited dormancy release, as did insufficient (<40 g H(2)O 100 g(-1) FW) seed hydration. The influence of dark-stratification on dormancy status in annual ryegrass seeds is discussed in terms of a hypothetical increase in available membrane-bound phytochrome receptors.
Methods of estimating seed banks with reference to long-term seed burial.	We compared two standard seed-bank estimation techniques using buried seed populations that had been covered to depths of >1 m by volcanic deposits for 20 years. Some seeds were germinated in a greenhouse (germination method [GM]), and other seeds were extracted by flotation using 50% K(2)CO(3) solution (flotation method [FM]). In total, FM could detect more species and seeds in the soils than GM. However, many species that were extracted by FM did not germinate by GM and smaller seeds were extracted to a lesser extent by FM. FM and GM have distinct advantages and disadvantages. We concluded that the application of a single method should be avoided in estimating seed banks, in particular for long-lived seed banks, because the seeds cannot be readily germinated and are structurally weak.
Molecular evolution of the s locus controlling mating in the brassicaceae.	Flowering plants possess self-incompatibility (SI) mechanisms that promote outbreeding and thereby increase their genetic diversity. In the self-incompatible Brassicaceae, recognition and rejection of self-pollen is based on a receptor-ligand interaction between male and female SI determinants. A transmembrane receptor kinase (S locus Receptor Kinase, SRK) determines the SI specificity in stigmatic cells, whereas a pollen coat-localized ligand (S locus Cysteine-Rich, SCR) determines the SI specificity in pollen. During recent years, major advances have been made in the understanding of the molecular basis of self-pollen recognition by stigmatic cells. In this review, we will focus on evolutionary aspects of the SI system in Brassicaceae. We will describe how the study of the molecular aspect of SI, not only in the historical Brassica model but also in Arabidopsis species, has contributed to highlight certain aspects of evolution of SI in the Brassicaceae.
The effect of seed mass and gap size on seed fate of tropical rain forest tree species in guyana.	For eleven tree species, differing in seed mass, germination success (emergence success for two small-seeded species) and the causes of failure to germinate were studied in the forest understorey and in logging gaps in the tropical rain forests of Guyana. In the forest understorey, germination success increased with seed mass. However, as gap size increased the difference between smaller and larger seeded species diminished because germination success of smaller-seeded species increased slightly, while that of larger-seeded species decreased dramatically. The negative effect of gap size on germination success of larger-seeded species was caused by an increased risk of desiccation with gap size, which was a far more important seed mortality agent for larger than for smaller-seeded species. Generally, seeds of smaller-seeded species suffered more from insect predation and were removed at higher rates than larger-seeded species. On the other hand, larger-seeded species were eaten more by mammals than smaller-seeded species. It is concluded that logging can result in shifts in the species composition in the tropical rain forests of Guyana which are dominated by species with large seeds, since germination success of larger-seeded species is dramatically reduced in large logging gaps.
Amelioration of biodiversity impacts of genetically modified crops: predicting transient versus long-term effects.	It has been suggested that genetically modified herbicide-tolerant crops may benefit biodiversity because spraying of crops may be delayed until later in the growing season, allowing weeds to grow during the early part of the year. This provides an enhanced resource for arthropods, and potentially benefits birds that feed on these. Thus, this technology could enhance biodiversity. Using a review of weed phenologies and a population model, we show that many weeds are unlikely to benefit because spraying is generally delayed insufficiently late in the season to allow most to set seed. The positive effects on biodiversity observed in trials lasting one or two seasons are thus likely to be transient. For one weed of particular significance (Chenopodium album, fat hen) we show that it is unlikely that the positive effects observed could be maintained by inputs of seed during other parts of the rotation. However, we find preliminary evidence that if spraying can be ceased earlier in the season, then a viable population of late-emerging weeds could be maintained. This strategy could benefit weeds in both genetically modified (GM) and non-GM crops, but would probably lead to reduced inputs in GM systems compared with conventional ones.
Long-distance seed dispersal in a metapopulation of Banksia hookeriana inferred from a population allocation analysis of amplified fragment length polymorphism data.	There is currently a poor understanding of the nature and extent of long-distance seed dispersal, largely due to the inherent difficulty of detection. New statistical approaches and molecular markers offer the potential to accurately address this issue. A log-likelihood population allocation test (AFLPOP) was applied to a plant metapopulation to characterize interpopulation seed dispersal. Banksia hookeriana is a fire-killed shrub, restricted to sandy dune crests in fire-prone shrublands of the Eneabba sandplain, southwest Australia. Population genetic variation was assessed for 221 individuals sampled from 21 adjacent dune-crest populations of B. hookeriana using amplified fragment length polymorphism. Genetic diversity was high, with 175 of 183 (96%) amplified fragment length polymorphism markers polymorphic. Of the total genetic diversity, 8% was partitioned among populations by amova and FST. There was no relationship between genetic diversity within populations and population demographic parameters such as population size and sample size. A population allocation test on these data unambiguously assigned 177 of 221 (80.1%) individuals to a single population. Of these, 171 (77.4% of total) were assigned to the population from which they were sampled and 6 (2.7% of total) were assigned to a known population other than the one from which they were sampled. A further 9 (4.1% of total) were assigned to outside the sampled metapopulation area, and 35 individuals (15.8%) could not be assigned unambiguously to any particular population. These results suggest that both the extent [15 of 221 (6.8%) individuals originating from a population other than the one in which they occur] and distance (1.6 to > 2.5 km), of seed dispersal between dune-crest populations is greater than expected from previous studies. The extent of long-distance interpopulation seed dispersal observed provides a basis for explaining the survival of populations of the fire-killed B. hookeriana in a landscape experiencing frequent fire, where local extinctions and recolonizations may be a regular occurrence.
The import of phosphoenolpyruvate by plastids from developing embryos of oilseed rape, Brassica napus (L.), and its potential as a substrate for fatty acid synthesis.	The plastidial phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP)/phosphate translocator (PPT) is expressed in the developing embryos of oilseed rape (Brassica napus L.). PEP can be imported by plastids isolated from embryos and used for fatty acid synthesis at rates that are sufficient to account for one-third of the rate of fatty acid synthesis in vivo. This provides the first experimental evidence for uptake of PEP and incorporation of carbon from it into fatty acids by plastids. PEP metabolism in isolated plastids is able to provide some of the ATP required for fatty acid synthesis. Expression of the PPT and related glucose 6-phosphate (Glc-6-P) translocator (GPT) is high in early embryo and leaf development and then declines. The marked decline in the abundance of PPT and GPT transcripts between the pre- and mid-oil accumulating stages of embryo development in B. napus does not correlate with the corresponding translocator activities, which both increase over the same period. This means that transcript abundance cannot be used to infer the activity of the translocators.
Abscisic acid-inducible nuclear proteins bind to bipartite promoter elements required for ABA response and embryo-regulated expression of the carrot Dc3 gene.	The carrot (Daucus carota L.) lea-class gene Dc3 is expressed in developing seeds and in vegetative tissues subject to drought and treatment with exogenous abscisic acid (ABA). Cis regulatory elements involved in seed-specific expression and in response to ABA were identified in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) using beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene constructs containing a series of deletion and orientation mutants of the Dc3 promoter. These experiments demonstrated that the Dc3 promoter is comprised of a proximal promoter region (PPR) and a distal promoter region (DPR). TCGTGT motifs in the DPR in combination with the PPR comprise a novel, bipartite ABA module in the Dc3 gene promoter. The PPR contains cis-acting elements responsible for the developmental regulation of Dc3 expression in seeds. Five similar sequence motifs with the consensus ACACgtGCa were identified in the PPR. Both DPR and PPR interact with common nuclear proteins that are present in embryos and are inducible by ABA in vegetative tissues.
Cloning of Brassica napus phospholipase C2 (BnPLC2), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (BnVPS34) and phosphatidylinositol synthase1 (BnPtdIns S1)--comparative analysis of the effect of abiotic stresses on the expression of phosphatidylinositol signal transduction-related genes in B. napus.	The cloning and identification of full-length cDNA fragments coding for the Brassica napus phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C2 (BnPLC2), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (BnVPS34) and phosphatidylinositol synthase (BnPtdIns S1) is described. In addition, two complementary fragments (120 nucleotides long) corresponding to Arabidopsis PtdIns 4-kinase (PtdIns 4-K) and PtdIns-4-phosphate 5-kinase (PtdIns4P 5-K) sequences were chemically synthesized. These, as well as the cDNA clones, were used as probes to study the corresponding steady state mRNA levels in different tissues and developmental stages of B. napus, as well as in response to different environmental conditions. Transcripts corresponding to BnPLC2, BnPtdIns S1, BnVPS34 and PtdIns 4-K were found constitutively expressed at different levels in most tissues, with young leaves, siliques, and developing seeds showing the lowest levels. No detectable PtdIns4P 5-K transcripts were found in buds or flowers. Up-regulation of BnPLC2 was seen in response to low temperature stress, which was notably accompanied by a parallel down-regulation of BnPtdIns S1, while BnVPS34 and PtdIns 4-K remained at control levels. A moderate increase in PtdIns4P 5-K levels was noted. In high salinity conditions BnPtdIns S1, BnVPS34 and BnPLC2 transcripts had similar responses but at different levels, with no major changes detected for PtdIns 4-K or PtdIns4P 5-K. Significantly, all five transcripts increased under drought stress conditions and all stressed plants clearly showed relatively higher levels of total inositol trisphosphate.
The quantitative and qualitative difference between a F1 hybrid of maize and its F2 generation.	The majority of modern maize varieties are single F1 hybrids. The yield performance of the F2 generation is known to be inferior to the F1 yield performance. We crossed several F1 hybrids and compared these crossings, together with true F2 generations, with the original F1s. Compared to the F1 generation, biomass yield in the F2 generation dropped with -26.7%, and with -8.7% in the crossings. Ear yield dropped with -35.3% and -10.7% respectively. F2 generations had a reduced early vigour and the ear filling startedlater. The yield of some F1 diallel crosses was not significantly different from the yield of the parental F1s.
Reduced fecundity in small populations of the rare plant Gentianopsis ciliate (Gentianaceae).	Habitat destruction is the main cause for the biodiversity crisis. Surviving populations are often fragmented, i.e., small and isolated from each other. Reproduction of plants in small populations is often reduced, and this has been attributed to inbreeding depression, reduced attractiveness for pollinators, and reduced habitat quality in small populations. Here we present data on the effects of fragmentation on the rare, self-compatible perennial herb Gentianopsis ciliata (Gentianaceae), a species with very small and presumably well-dispersed seeds. We studied the relationship between population size, plant size, and the number of flowers produced in 63 populations from 1996-1998. In one of the years, leaf and flower size and the number of seeds produced per fruit was studied in a subset of 25 populations. Plant size, flower size, and the number of seeds per fruit and per plant increased with population size, whereas leaf length and the number of flowers per plant did not. The effects of population size on reproduction and on flower size remained significant if the effects were adjusted for differences in plant size, indicating that they could not be explained by differences in habitat quality. The strongly reduced reproduction in small populations may be due to pollination limitation, while the reduced flower size could indicate genetic effects.
Comparison of QTL controlling seedling vigour under different temperature conditions using recombinant inbred lines in rice (Oryza sativa).	Seedling vigour is one of the major determinants for stable stand establishment in rice (Oryza sativa), especially in a direct seeding cropping system. The objectives of this study were to identify superior alleles with consistent effects on seedling vigour across different temperature conditions and to investigate genotype x environmental temperature interactions for seedling vigour QTL.
FTIR imaging of wheat endosperm cell walls in situ reveals compositional and architectural heterogeneity related to grain hardness.	Endosperm cell walls of cultivars of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) selected for their endosperm texture (two soft and two hard) were analysed in situ by Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) microspectroscopy. FTIR imaging coupled with statistical analysis was used to map the compositional and structural heterogeneity within transverse sections from which cell contents had been removed by sonication. In the majority of grains analysed, two distinct populations of endosperm cells could be identified by spectral features that were related to cell morphology and age, regardless of cultivar. The main cell-wall component responsible for these differences was the polysaccharide arabinoxylan. In a few samples, this heterogeneity was absent, for reasons that are not understood, but this was not correlated to endosperm texture or growth conditions. Within the same population of endosperm cells, cell walls of hard endosperm could be distinguished from those of soft endosperm by their spectral features. Compared to hard cultivars, the peripheral endosperm of soft cultivars was characterised by a higher amount of polymer, whose spectral feature was similar to water-extractable arabinoxylan. In contrast, no specific compound has been identified in the central endosperm: structural differences within the polysaccharides probably contribute to the distinction between hard and soft cultivars. In developing grain, a clear difference in the composition of the endosperm cell walls of hard and soft wheat cultivars was observed as early as 15 days after anthesis.
Drawing lines and borders: how the dehiscent fruit of Arabidopsis is patterned.	The advent of fruits marked a key innovation in the evolution of flowering plants and helped generate a diverse array of mechanisms for seed dispersal. In the model plant, Arabidopsis thaliana, seed dispersal occurs through a process known as "pod-shatter" in which the fruit structure falls to pieces upon light mechanical pressures. This dispersal mechanism is dependent on the careful patterning of tissues in the fruit, which perform diverse functions that enable the fruit to open at maturation. Using the genetic power of Arabidopsis, many of the molecular components that help specify these tissues have been identified. Studies of the interactions among these genes have revealed a regulatory network that limits processes such as cell-cell separation and lignification to discreet regions of the fruit. Knowledge of these processes in a model fruit creates a foundation on which to build an understanding of the evolution of fruit form in other species and provides tools to engineer shatter-resistant seed pods to prevent crop loss in plants of agronomic importance such as canola.
Gene expression programs during Brassica oleracea seed maturation, osmopriming, and germination are indicators of progression of the germination process and the stress tolerance level.	During seed maturation and germination, major changes in physiological status, gene expression, and metabolic events take place. Using chlorophyll sorting, osmopriming, and different drying regimes, Brassica oleracea seed lots of different maturity, stress tolerance, and germination behavior were created. Through careful physiological analysis of these seed lots combined with gene expression analysis using a dedicated cDNA microarray, gene expression could be correlated to physiological processes that occurred within the seeds. In addition, gene expression was studied during early stages of seed germination, prior to radicle emergence, since very little detailed information of gene expression during this process is available. During seed maturation expression of many known seed maturation genes, such as late-embryogenesis abundant or storage-compound genes, was high. Notably, a small but distinct subgroup of the maturation genes was found to correlate to seed stress tolerance in osmoprimed and dried seeds. Expression of these genes rapidly declined during priming and/or germination in water. The majority of the genes on the microarray were up-regulated during osmopriming and during germination on water, confirming the hypothesis that during osmopriming, germination-related processes are initiated. Finally, a large group of genes was up-regulated during germination on water, but not during osmopriming. These represent genes that are specific to germination in water. Germination-related gene expression was found to be partially reversible by physiological treatments such as slow drying of osmoprimed seeds. This correlated to the ability of seeds to withstand stress.
Complementation of sugary-1 phenotype in rice endosperm with the wheat isoamylase1 gene supports a direct role for isoamylase1 in amylopectin biosynthesis.	To examine the role of isoamylase1 (ISA1) in amylopectin biosynthesis in plants, a genomic DNA fragment from Aegilops tauschii was introduced into the ISA1-deficient rice (Oryza sativa) sugary-1 mutant line EM914, in which endosperm starch is completely replaced by phytoglycogen. A. tauschii is the D genome donor of wheat (Triticum aestivum), and the introduced fragment effectively included the gene for ISA1 for wheat (TaISA1) that was encoded on the D genome. In TaISA1-expressing rice endosperm, phytoglycogen synthesis was substantially replaced by starch synthesis, leaving only residual levels of phytoglycogen. The levels of residual phytoglycogen present were inversely proportional to the expression level of the TaISA1 protein, although the level of pullulanase that had been reduced in EM914 was restored to the same level as that in the wild type. Small but significant differences were found in the amylopectin chain-length distribution, gelatinization temperatures, and A-type x-ray diffraction patterns of the starches from lines expressing TaISA1 when compared with wild-type rice starch, although in the first two parameters, the effect was proportional to the expression level of TaISA. The impact of expression levels of ISA1 on starch structure and properties provides support for the view that ISA1 is directly involved in the synthesis of amylopectin.
Relaxed molecular clock provides evidence for long-distance dispersal of Nothofagus (southern beech).	Nothofagus (southern beech), with an 80-million-year-old fossil record, has become iconic as a plant genus whose ancient Gondwanan relationships reach back into the Cretaceous era. Closely associated with Wegener's theory of "Kontinentaldrift", Nothofagus has been regarded as the "key genus in plant biogeography". This paradigm has the New Zealand species as passengers on a Moa's Ark that rafted away from other landmasses following the breakup of Gondwana. An alternative explanation for the current transoceanic distribution of species seems almost inconceivable given that Nothofagus seeds are generally thought to be poorly suited for dispersal across large distances or oceans. Here we test the Moa's Ark hypothesis using relaxed molecular clock methods in the analysis of a 7.2-kb fragment of the chloroplast genome. Our analyses provide the first unequivocal molecular clock evidence that, whilst some Nothofagus transoceanic distributions are consistent with vicariance, trans-Tasman Sea distributions can only be explained by long-distance dispersal. Thus, our analyses support the interpretation of an absence of Lophozonia and Fuscospora pollen types in the New Zealand Cretaceous fossil record as evidence for Tertiary dispersals of Nothofagus to New Zealand. Our findings contradict those from recent cladistic analyses of biogeographic data that have concluded transoceanic Nothofagus distributions can only be explained by vicariance events and subsequent extinction. They indicate that the biogeographic history of Nothofagus is more complex than envisaged under opposing polarised views expressed in the ongoing controversy over the relevance of dispersal and vicariance for explaining plant biodiversity. They provide motivation and justification for developing more complex hypotheses that seek to explain the origins of Southern Hemisphere biota.
Selfing and resource allocation in Schiedea salicaria (Caryophyllaceae), a gynodioecious species.	Abstract Levels of selfing and resource allocation patterns were investigated in Schiedea salicaria (Caryophyllaceae), a gynodioecious species with high levels of inbreeding depression and nuclear control of male sterility. Selfing levels were higher in hermaphrodites than females, especially when adjusted for early acting inbreeding depression. The sexes of S. salicaria were similar in most allocation patterns including number of flowers and capsules per inflorescence, seeds per flower, and seed mass. Seeds produced by females had higher levels of germination than seeds of hermaphrodites, a likely result of high selfing levels and the expression of inbreeding depression in the progeny of hermaphrodites. Invasion of females in populations of S. salicaria is probably related to the expression of inbreeding depression at germination and in later life history stages. Comparisons with related species of Schiedea that also have nuclear control of male sterility suggest that reallocation of resources in hermaphrodites to male function occurs as females increase in frequency, but that resource reallocation is not important for the success of females when they first invade populations.
Changes in the light sensitivity of buried Polygonum aviculare seeds in relation to cold-induced dormancy loss: development of a predictive model.	The effect of cold (stratification) temperature on changes in the sensitivity of Polygonum aviculare seeds to light was investigated. Seeds buried in pots were stored under stratification temperatures (1.6, 7 and 12 degrees C) for 137 d. Seeds exhumed at regular intervals during storage were exposed to different light treatments. Germination responses obtained for seeds exposed to different light treatments and stratification temperatures were used to develop a model to predict the sensitivity of buried seeds to light. Seed sensitivity to light increased as dormancy loss progressed, showing the successive acquisition of low-fluence responses (LFR), very low-fluence responses (VLFR), and the loss of the light requirement for germination for a fraction of the seed population. These changes were inversely correlated to stratification temperature, allowing the use of a thermal time index to relate observed changes in seed light sensitivity to stratification temperature. The rate of increase in sensitivity of P. aviculare seeds to light during stratification is inversely correlated to soil temperature, and these changes in light sensitivity could be predicted in relation to temperature using thermal-time models.
Seed dispersal in heterogeneous environments: bridging the gap between mechanistic dispersal and forest dynamics models.	Seed dispersal is an important determinant of vegetation composition. We present a mechanistic model of seed dispersal by wind that incorporates heterogeneous vegetation structure. Vegetation affects wind speeds, a primary determinant of dispersal distance. Existing models combine wind speed and fall velocity of seeds. We expand on them by allowing vegetation, and thus wind profiles, to vary along seed trajectories, making the model applicable to any wind-dispersed plant in any community. Using seed trap data on seeds dispersing from forests into adjacent sites of two distinct vegetation structures, we show that our model was unbiased and accurate, even though dispersal patterns differed greatly between the two structures. Our spatially heterogeneous model performed better than models that assumed homogeneous vegetation for the same system. Its sensitivity to vegetation structure and ability to predict seed arrival when vegetation structure was incorporated demonstrates the model's utility for providing realistic estimates of seed arrival in realistic landscapes. Thus, we begin to bridge mechanistic seed dispersal and forest dynamics models. We discuss the merits of our model for incorporation into forest simulators, applications where such incorporation has been or is likely to be especially fruitful, and future model refinements to increase understanding of seed dispersal by wind.
Relief for fish stocks: oceanic fatty acids in transgenic oilseeds.	Three recent reports (Baoxiu Qi et al., Amine Abbadi et al. and Anthony J. Kinney et al.) describe the production of very long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids in transgenic plants. This might lead to a sustainable source of these valuable fatty acids for use in human food and animal feed. At present they are mainly available via consumption of fish, which is a limited and endangered resource.
Cereal phytochromes: targets of selection, targets for manipulation?	Plants respond to shading through an adaptive syndrome termed shade avoidance. In high-density crop plantings, shade avoidance generally increases extension growth at the expense of yield and can be at odds with the agronomic performance of the crop as a whole. Studies in Arabidopsis are beginning to reveal the essential role phytochromes play in regulating this process and to identify genes underlying the response. In this article, we focus on how phytochrome signaling networks have been targeted in cereal breeding programs in the past and discuss the potential to alter these pathways through breeding and transgenic manipulation to develop crops that perform better under typical high density conditions.
New evidence for the Darwinian hypothesis of heterostyly: breeding systems and pollinators in Narcissus sect. Apodanthi.	Here we analysed the role played by breeding systems and pollinators in the evolution of heterostyly by testing whether evolution towards heterostyly is associated with style polymorphism and changes in pollinator proficiency or breeding system variation (Darwinian hypothesis). We studied pollinators, pollen-transfer efficiency, and incompatibility systems in all seven species of Narcissus sect. Apodanthi for which we also obtained chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) sequences from three spacers to infer phylogenetic relationships. Five species are self-incompatible and within-morph cross-compatible. Heterostylous (Narcissus albimarginatus) and style-dimorphic (Narcissus cuatrecasasii) species that have a high degree of reciprocity in stigma and anther height are primarily pollinated by solitary bees. The style-monomorphic species (Narcissus watieri) and the style-dimorphic species with the least stigma-anther reciprocity (Narcissus rupicola) are both self-compatible and pollinated by butterflies, moths and hover flies. Phylogenetic reconstruction of character transitions indicates that the shift from style dimorphism to distyly is associated with a shift to bee pollination. Pollination by lepidopterans and flies is associated with stable style dimorphism and monomorphism. Evolution and maintenance of style polymorphisms in this group of species are independent of incompatibility systems. Taken together, our results strongly support the pollinator-based model for evolution of heterostyly and style length polymorphisms in general.
Female reproductive success and the evolution of mating-type frequencies in tristylous populations.	In tristylous populations, mating-type frequencies are governed by negative frequency-dependent selection typically resulting in equal morph ratios at equilibrium. However, Narcissus triandrus generally exhibits long-styled (L)-biased populations with a deficiency of the mid-styled (M)-morph. Here we used a pollen-transfer model and measurements of female fertility in natural populations to investigate whether these uneven morph ratios were associated with variation in female reproductive success. Our theoretical analysis demonstrated that morph ratio bias can result from maternal fitness differences among the morphs, and that these effects were magnified by asymmetrical mating. In nine out of 15 populations of N. triandrus, seed set differed significantly among the morphs, but pollen limitation occurred in only two of 11 populations investigated. Average seed set of the M-morph was positively associated with its frequency in populations. Flower size was negatively correlated with the seed set of the M-morph. Our results suggest that interactions between mating patterns and female fertility are responsible for variation in morph frequencies and loss of the M-morph from tristylous populations of N. triandrus.
Neutral theory and the evolution of ecological equivalence.	Since the publication of the unified neutral theory in 2001, there has been much discussion of the theory, pro and con. The hypothesis of ecological equivalence is the fundamental yet controversial idea behind neutral theory. Assuming trophically similar species are demographically alike (symmetric) on a per capita basis is only an approximation, but it is equivalent to asking: How many of the patterns of ecological communities are the result of species similarities, rather than of species differences? The strategy behind neutral theory is to see how far one can get with the simplification of assuming ecological equivalence before introducing more complexity. In another paper, I review the empirical evidence that led me to hypothesize ecological equivalence among many of the tree species in the species-rich tropical forest on Barro Colorado Island (BCI). In this paper, I develop a simple model for the evolution of ecological equivalence or niche convergence, using as an example evolution of the suite of life history traits characteristic of shade tolerant tropical tree species. Although the model is simple, the conclusions from it seem likely to be robust. I conclude that ecological equivalence for resource use are likely to evolve easily and often, especially in species-rich communities that are dispersal and recruitment limited. In the case of the BCI forest, tree species are strongly dispersal- and recruitment-limited, not only because of restricted seed dispersal, but also because of low recruitment success due to heavy losses of the seedling stages to predators and pathogens and other abiotic stresses such as drought. These factors and the high species richness of the community strongly reduce the potential for competitive exclusion of functionally equivalent or nearly equivalent species.
Germination responses to GA3 and stratification of threatened Festuca L. species from Eastern Mediterranean.	The seed germination characteristics of three threatened Festuca sp. [F. punctoria Sm., F. cyllenica Boiss. et Heldr. subsp. uluana Markgr.-Dannenb., F. paphlagonica (St.-Yves) Markgr.-Dannenb. subsp. paphlagonica] were investigated. These species are endemic and spread on alpine belt. The study was carried out with wet-cold and dry-cold stratification throughout 15 days, different doses of GA3 (50, 100 and 150 ppm) and hormone-stratification combined treatments, and non-treatment series. We found that the germination rates of three fescue seeds for various treatment series were different. The mean germination percentage of F. cyllenica was higher (80%) than that of F. punctoria and F. paphlagonica which were fairly low (50-60%). Germination rates increased by wet-stratification treatment in F. punctoria and also increased with 100 ppm GA3 application to the seeds of F. paphlagonica. When taken into consideration the germination percentages of all fescue species, the seeds of F. punctoria and F. paphlagonica can be dormant, but the seeds of F. cyllenica are non-dormant.
Development of visible markers for transgenic plants and their availability for environmental risk assessment.	Monitoring of transgenic plants in the field is important, but risk assessment has entailed laborious use of invisible marker genes. Here, we assessed three easily visible marker transgenes--green fluorescent protein (GFP), R, and Nicotiana tabacum homeobox (NTH) 15 genes--for their potential use as marker genes for monitoring genetically modified plants. Transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants for each of these genes were visibly distinguished from wild-type plants. We determined the germination rate, 3-week fresh weight, time to first flowering, and seed weight of the transgenic plants to evaluate whether the expression of these marker genes affected the growth of the host. Introduction of GFP gene had no effect on the evaluated parameters, and we then used the GFP gene as a marker to assess the outcrossing frequency between transgenic and two Arabidopsis species. Our results showed that the hybridization frequency between transgenic plants and Arabidopsis thaliana was 0.24%, and between transformants and Arabidopsis lyrata it was 2.6% under experimental condition. Out-crossing frequency was decreased by extending the distance between two kinds of plants. Thus, the GFP gene is a useful marker for assessing the whereabouts of transgenes/transformants in the field. We also demonstrated that the GFP gene is possibly applicable as a selection marker in the process of generation of transgenic plants.
Developmental processes of achlorophyllous orchid, Epipogium roseum: from seed germination to flowering under symbiotic cultivation with mycorrhizal fungus.	We have achieved the symbiotic cultivation of an apparently achlorophyllous orchid, Epipogium roseum Lindl., with a mycorrhizal fungus isolated from an underground organ of this orchid. Although the seed germination rate was extremely low, subsequent growth from protocorm to flowering was induced in a medium containing volcanic soils and sawdust. Stolons elongated from each protocorm, and rhizomes were formed at certain intervals on the stolons. Some of the rhizomes developed into a coralloid form, and tubers were formed from the coralloid rhizomes. The coralloid rhizomes degenerated concurrently with maturation of the tubers. Six months after seed sowing, around 80 tubers were produced from a single protocorm. An inflorescence appeared from each of the large tubers, and the process to flowering was observed in one of these. Consequently, the developmental processes from seed to flowering in E. roseum was clearly revealed in this study.
Endosperm formation in aposporous Crataegus (Rosaceae, Spiraeoideae, tribe Pyreae): parallels to Ranunculaceae and Poaceae.	Apomixis in Crataegus is primarily aposporous and requires pollination. The embryo sac is of the Polygonum type. A combination of meiotically unreduced embryo sacs with apparently reduced pollen would violate the usual requirement for a 2 : 1 ratio of maternal to paternal contributions to the endosperm. We therefore investigated the origin of endosperm in seeds of sexual diploids and apomictic polyploids of the sister genera Crataegus and Mespilus. Flow-cytometric DNA measurements from embryo and endosperm in mature seeds were converted to ploidy levels using leaf-tissue information. The diploids had triploid endosperm. In c. 60% of seed from polyploids, one sperm apparently contributes to the endosperm, while 25% or more may involve two sperm. Additional results suggest that trinucleate central cells also occur. Fertilization of meiotically unreduced eggs is indicated. The ratio of maternal to paternal contributions to the endosperm in these apomictic Crataegus is not constrained to 2 : 1. They thus resemble some Sorbus (Pyreae) and very distantly related Ranunculus (Ranunculaceae). It is suggested that Paspalum (Poaceae) may have similarly flexible endosperm ploidy levels.
Cloning and transcriptional analysis of Crepis alpina fatty acid desaturases affecting the biosynthesis of crepenynic acid.	Crepis alpina acetylenase is a variant FAD2 desaturase that catalyses the insertion of a triple bond at the Delta12 position of linoleic acid, forming crepenynic acid in developing seeds. Seeds contain a high level of crepenynic acid but other tissues contain none. Using reverse transcriptase-coupled PCR (RT-PCR), acetylenase transcripts were identified in non-seed C. alpina tissues, which were highest in flower heads. To understand why functional expression of the acetylenase is limited to seeds, genes that affect acetylenase activity by providing substrate (FAD2) or electrons (cytochrome b5), or that compete for substrate (FAD3), were cloned. RT-PCR analysis indicated that the availability of a preferred cytochrome b5 isoform is not a limiting factor. Developing seeds co-express acetylenase and FAD2 isoform 2 (FAD2-2) at high levels. Flower heads co-express FAD2-3 and FAD3 at high levels, and FAD2-2 and acetylenase at moderate levels. FAD2-3 was not expressed in developing seed. Real-time RT-PCR absolute transcript quantitation showed 10(4)-fold higher acetylenase expression in developing seeds than in flower heads. Collectively, the results show that both the acetylenase expression level and the co-expression of other desaturases may contribute to the tissue specificity of crepenynate production. Helianthus annuus contains a Delta12 acetylenase in a polyacetylene biosynthetic pathway, so does not accumulate crepenynate. Real-time RT-PCR analysis showed relatively strong acetylenase expression in young sunflowers. Acetylenase transcription is observed in both species without accumulation of the enzymatic product, crepenynate. Functional expression of acetylenase appears to be affected by competition and collaboration with other enzymes.
Involvement of polyamines in the drought resistance of rice.	This study investigated whether and how polyamines (PAs) in rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants are involved in drought resistance. Six rice cultivars differing in drought resistance were used and subjected to well-watered and water-stressed treatments during their reproductive period. The activities of arginine decarboxylase, S-adenosyl-L-methionine decarboxylase, and spermidine (Spd) synthase in the leaves were significantly enhanced by water stress, in good agreement with the increase in putrescine (Put), Spd, and spermine (Spm) contents there. The increased contents of free Spd, free Spm, and insoluble-conjugated Put under water stress were significantly correlated with the yield maintenance ratio (the ratio of grain yield under water-stressed conditions to grain yield under well-watered conditions) of the cultivars. Free Put at an early stage of water stress positively, whereas at a later stage negatively, correlated with the yield maintenance ratio. No significant differences were observed in soluble-conjugated PAs and insoluble-conjugated Spd and Spm among the cultivars. Free PAs showed significant accumulation when leaf water potentials reached -0.51 MPa to -0.62 MPa for the drought-resistant cultivars and -0.70 MPa to -0.84 MPa for the drought-susceptible ones. The results suggest that rice has a large capacity to enhance PA biosynthesis in leaves in response to water stress. The role of PAs in plant defence to water stress varies with PA forms and stress stages. In adapting to drought it would be good for rice to have the physiological traits of higher levels of free Spd/free Spm and insoluble-conjugated Put, as well as early accumulation of free PAs, under water stress.
OsMTN encodes a 5'-methylthioadenosine nucleosidase that is up-regulated during submergence-induced ethylene synthesis in rice (Oryza sativa L.).	Methylthioadenosine (MTA) is released as a by-product of S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet)-dependent reactions central to ethylene, polyamine, or phytosiderophore biosynthesis. MTA is hydrolysed by methylthioadenosine nucleosidase (MTN; EC 3.2.2.16) into adenine and methylthioribose which is processed through the methionine (Met) cycle to produce a new molecule of AdoMet. In deepwater rice, submergence enhances ethylene biosynthesis, and ethylene in turn influences the methionine cycle through positive feedback regulation of the acireductone dioxygenase gene OsARD1. In rice, MTN is encoded by a single gene designated OsMTN. Recombinant OsMTN enzyme had a KM for MTA of 2.1 mM and accepted a wide array of 5' substitutions of the substrate. OsMTN also metabolized S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) with 15.9% the rate of MTA. OsMTN transcripts and OsMTN-specific activity increased slowly and in parallel upon submergence, indicating that regulation occurred mainly at the transcriptional level. Neither ethylene, MTA, nor Met regulated OsMTN expression. Analysis of steady-state metabolite levels showed that MTN activity was sufficiently high to prevent Met and AdoMet depletion during long-term ethylene biosynthesis.
Proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of rice mature seed-derived callus differentiation.	Callus differentiation is a key developmental process for rice regeneration from cells. To better understand this complex developmental process, we used a 2-D gel electrophoresis approach to explore the temporal patterns of protein expression at the early stages during rice callus differentiation. This global analysis detected 60 known proteins out of 79 gel spots identified by MS/MS, of which many had been shown to play a role in plant development. Two new proteins were revealed to be associated with the callus differentiation and have been confirmed by Western blot analysis. The results of proteomics experiments were further verified at the mRNA level using microarray and real-time PCR. Comparison of the differentially expressed protein levels with their corresponding mRNA levels at the two callus early differentiation stages showed a good correlation between them, indicating that a substantial proportion of protein changes is a consequence of changed mRNA levels, rather than post-transcriptional effects during callus differentiation, though microarray revealed more expression changes on RNA levels. These findings may contribute to further understanding of the mechanisms that lead to callus differentiation of rice and other plants as well.
A Race for survival: can Bromus tectorum seeds escape Pyrenophora semeniperda-caused mortality by germinating quickly?	Pathogen-seed interactions may involve a race for seed resources, so that seeds that germinate more quickly, mobilizing reserves, will be more likely to escape seed death than slow-germinating seeds. This race-for-survival hypothesis was tested for the North American seed pathogen Pyrenophora semeniperda on seeds of the annual grass Bromus tectorum, an invasive plant in North America. In this species, the seed germination rate varies as a function of dormancy status; dormant seeds germinate slowly if at all, whereas non-dormant seeds germinate quickly.
Resistance to white rust in pak choi and Chinese cabbage at the cotyledon stage.	The biothrofic pathogen Albugo candida (Pers.) attacks all the cultivated Brassica species and several wild crucifers causing the disease known as white rust. The symptoms consist on the initial appearance of more or less conspicuous white sori on the plant leaves and stems, followed by severe distortions of the affected organs, especially flowers and siliqua. On delicate vegetable types of Brassica rapa L., like pak choi (B. rapa var. chinensis L.) and chinese cabbages (B. rapa var. pekinensis L.) even a slight white rust infection can render all the production unmarketable. Development of resistant cultivars is the best way to control the disease and to insure low pesticide spraying and residues in vegetables. The objective of this work were: i) the screening of a collection of B. rapa accessions from several seed banks for sources of resistance to white rust; and ii) the study of the inheritance of resistance in the most resistant accessions. Forty three accessions of B. rapa chinensis and 19 accessions of B. rapapekinensis were screened at the cotyledon stage following the methods of Santos and Dias (2004) with a Portuguese A. candida isolate Ac506 (Br) collected from turnip leaves. Four accessions of B. rapa chinensis presented more than 50% of resistant plants: the pak choi (BRA 117) was the most resistant accession with 85% of resistant plants, followed by pak choi (BRA227) with 73%, pai tsai 'Ex China 1' (B00083) with 60% and pak choi 'Ai Jiao Huang' (BRA 225) with 53%. On the opposite, B. rapa pekinensis accessions were all consider as susceptible presenting only 0-11% of resistant plants. The inheritance of resistance was studied in two crosses between pak choi BRA 117 and the rapid cycling B. rapa plant line CrGC 1.19. Selfed parents and F1 and F2 generations were produced, and screened at the cotyledon stage as previously described. Analysis of the results suggests that inheritance of resistance to Ac506 in pak choi BRA 117 is controlled by two nuclear genes with dominant recessive interaction.
Primary study on shapes of fruits and germination characters of seeds of Radix et Rhizoma Rhei]	To explore the difference of the shapes of fruits and germination characters of seeds of Rheum palmatum, R. tanguticum and R. officinale.
Contemporary pollen and seed dispersal in a Prunus mahaleb population: patterns in distance and direction.	Pollination and seed dispersal determine the spatial pattern of gene flow in plant populations and, for those species relying on pollinators and frugivores as dispersal vectors, animal activity plays a key role in determining this spatial pattern. For these plant species, reported dispersal patterns are dominated by short-distance movements with a significant amount of immigration. However, the contribution of seed and pollen to the overall contemporary gene immigration is still poorly documented for most plant populations. In this study we investigated pollination and seed dispersal at two spatial scales in a local population of Prunus mahaleb (L.), a species pollinated by insects and dispersed by frugivorous vertebrates. First, we dissected the relative contribution of pollen and seed dispersal to gene immigration from other parts of the metapopulation. We found high levels of gene immigration (18.50%), due to frequent long distance seed dispersal events. Second, we assessed the distance and directionality for pollen and seed dispersal events within the local population. Pollen and seed movement patterns were non-random, with skewed distance distributions: pollen tended moved up to 548 m along an axis approaching the N-S direction, and seeds were dispersed up to 990 m, frequently along the SW and SE axes. Animal-mediated dispersal contributed significantly towards gene immigration into the local population and had a markedly nonrandom pattern within the local population. Our data suggest that animals can impose distinct spatial signatures in contemporary gene flow, with the potential to induce significant genetic structure at a local level.
Research advance in seed germination of desert woody plants]	This paper reviewed the research methods of desert woody plants seed germination, and the effects of internal and external ecological factors on it. Most researchers use incubator and artificial climate chamber to dispose the seeds, while field investigation was few involved. Seed dormancy is the important physiological factor affecting germination, while seed size, mass and color are closely correlated with its maturity and vigor. The poor permeability of seed capsule is a barrier that restrains the germination, which can be weakened or eliminated by shaving, cutting, treating with low temperature, and dipping in chemical reagent, etc. Seed water content has a close correlation with its storage life and water-absorbing capability. Suitable temperature is the prerequisite of seed germination, while changing temperature can accelerate the germination. Soil moisture content is a limiting factor, while illumination is not so essential to the seed germination of most desert woody plants. Sand-burying plays an important role in the seed germination through regulating illumination, temperature, and soil moisture content. Salinity stress restrains the seed germination of desert woody plants observably. In further studies, the effects of multi-factors and the eco-physiological and molecular biological mechanisms of germination should be more concerned.
Spatial and temporal patterns of seed dispersal: an important determinant of grassland invasion.	We measured spatial and temporal patterns of seed dispersal and seedling recruitment for 58 species in a grassland community to test whether seed dispersal could predict patterns of invasion after disturbance. For the 12 most abundant grasses, recruitment of native species was dependent on the propagule supply of both native and exotic species. Variability in seed rain on small spatial (1-10 m) and temporal (within season) scales led to qualitative differences in the outcome of disturbance colonization such that native species dominated disturbances when exotic seed supply was low but failed to establish when exotic seed supply was high. Local dispersal and spatial heterogeneity in species composition promoted coexistence of native and exotic species by creating refuges from high exotic seed supply within native dominated patches. Despite this, copious exotic seed production strongly limited recruitment of native species in exotic dominated patches. Most grasslands in California are presently dominated by exotic species, suggesting that competition at the seedling stage is a major barrier to native species restoration.
Disassortative mating, sexual specialization, and the evolution of gender dimorphism in heterodichogamous Acer opalus.	In sexually polymorphic species, the morphs are maintained by frequency-dependent selection through disassortative mating. In heterodichogamous populations in which disassortative mating occurs between the protandrous and protogynous morphs, a decrease in female fitness in one morph is hypothesized to drive sexual specialization in the other morph, resulting in dimorphic populations. We test these ideas in a population of the heterodichogamous species, Acer opalus. We assessed both prospective gender of individuals in terms of their allocations and actual parentage using microsatellites; we found that most matings in A. opalus occur disassortatively. We demonstrate that the protogynous morph is maintained by frequency-dependent selection, but that maintenance of males versus protandrous individuals depends on their relative siring success, which changes yearly. Seeds produced later in the reproductive season were smaller than those produced earlier; this should compromise reproduction through ovules in protandrous individuals, rendering them male biased in gender. Time-dependent gender and paternity analyses indicate that the sexual morphs are specialized in their earlier sexual functions, mediated by the seasonal decrease in seed size. Our results confirm that mating patterns are context-dependent and change seasonally, suggesting that sexual specialization can be driven by seasonal effects on fitness gained through one of the two sexual functions.
Variation of pollinator assemblages and pollen limitation in a locally specialized system: the oil-producing Nierembergia linariifolia (Solanaceae).	Few studies have examined the dynamics of specialist plant-pollinator interactions at a geographical scale. This knowledge is crucial for a more general evolutionary and ecological understanding of specialized plant-pollinator systems. In the present study, variations in pollinator activity, assemblage composition and pollen limitation were explored in the oil-producing species Nierembergia linariifolia (Solanaceae).
Persistent pods of the tree Acacia caven: a natural refuge for diverse insects including Bruchid beetles and the parasitoids Trichogrammatidae, Pteromalidae and Eulophidae.	The persistent pods of the tree, Acacia caven that do not fall from the tree provide opportunities for the appearance of a diverse group of insects the following season. Such pods collected during the spring of 1999 in Chile were indehiscent with highly sclerified pod walls. In contrast, persistent pods collected in Uruguay after a wet winter and spring (2002) were partially dehiscent, inducing the deterioration of the woody pods, and consequently exposing the seeds. These persistent pods are a natural refuge for insect species, namely two bruchid beetles (Pseudopachymeria spinipes, Stator furcatus), one scolytidae (Dendroctonus sp), lepidopterous larvae, ant colonies (Camponotus sp), one species of oophagous parasitoid (Uscana espinae group senex), the gregarious larval-pupae parasitoid Monoksa dorsiplana (Pteromalidae) and two species of Horismenus spp. (Eulophidae). The patriline of M. dorsiplana is frequently formed by 1 son + 7 daughters.
Neighborhood aggregation effect and its effective scale on reproductive success in Shorea laxa (Dipterocarpaceae).	This study investigated whether reproductive success is affected by the intensity of neighborhood aggregation of adults in the tropical tree Shorea laxa. We focused on three processes in the early reproductive stages: seed maturation; seed survival (categorizing sound seed, predation by insects and predation by vertebrates) in pre-seed dispersal; and seedling survival in the post-seed dispersal stage. We used a model selection procedure to examine the aggregation effect on reproductive success. The intensity of neighborhood aggregation was represented by the neighborhood aggregation index, which contains the adult number within a specific radius and the distances to neighboring adults (weight of proximity). Then, we evaluated the models exhaustively with the aggregation index having different scales (radius and weight of proximity) to assess the scale on which aggregation had significant effects. In particular, the best effective neighborhood scale, which is defined as the scale of the index in the model with minimum Akaike information criterion, was examined to compare those scales among processes. We found that the probability of seed maturation, seed survival and seedling survival decreased with the aggregation index at specific scales. This suggests that aggregation influenced reproductive success negatively in both the pre- and post-seed dispersal stages. However, the selected radii differed among processes: >200 and 130 m in pre- and post-seed dispersal stages, respectively. The selected weight of proximity also seemed to have a weak effect on all processes and was not different among processes.
Evolution and history of grapevine (Vitis vinifera) under domestication: new morphometric perspectives to understand seed domestication syndrome and reveal origins of ancient European cultivars.	In spite of the abundance of archaeological, bio-archaeological, historical and genetic data, the origins, historical biogeography, identity of ancient grapevine cultivars and mechanisms of domestication are still largely unknown. Here, analysis of variation in seed morphology aims to provide accurate criteria for the discrimination between wild grapes and modern cultivars and to understand changes in functional traits in relation to the domestication process. This approach is also used to quantify the phenotypic diversity in the wild and cultivated compartments and to provide a starting point for comparing well-preserved archaeological material, in order to elucidate the history of grapevine varieties.
Effect of dissolved organic matter on the toxicity of chlorotoluron to Triticum aestivum.	Response of two wheat cultivars (Triticum aestivum cv. YM 158 and NM 9) to the herbicide chlorotoluron and the effect of two forms of dissolved organic matter on the chlorotoluron toxicity to the plants were characterized. Treatment with chlorotoluron at 10-50 microg/ml inhibited the seed germination and a dose-response was observed. The inhibition of seed germination was correlated to the depression of alpha-amylase activities. To identify whether chlorotoluron induced oxidative damage to wheat plants, the malondlaldehyde (MDA) content and electrolyte leakage were measured. Results showed that both MDA content and electrolyte leakage in the chlorotoluron-treated roots significantly increased. Activities of several key enzymes were measured that operate in citric acid cycle and carbohydrate metabolic pathway. Inhibited activities of citrate synthase and NADP-isocitrate dehydrogenase were observed in the chlorotoluron-treated roots as compared to control plants. We also examined malate dehydrogenase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase in wheat roots exposed to 30 gg/ml chlorotoluron. However, none of the enzymes showed significant changes in activities. Application of 160 microg/ml dissolved organic matter (DOM) extracted from non-treated sludge (NTS) and heat-expanded sludge (HES) in the medium with 30 microg/ml chlorotoluron induced an additive inhibition of seed germination and plant growth. The inhibition of growth due to the DOM treatment was associated with the depression of activities of alpha-amylase, citrate synthase and NADP-isocitrate dehydrogenase, as well as the increase in malondlaldehyde content and electrolyte leakage. These results suggested that the presence of DOM might enhance the uptake and accumulation of chlorotoluron, and thus resulted in greater toxicity in wheat plants. The two forms of DOM exhibited differences in regulation of chlorotoluron toxicity to the wheat plants. Treatments with DOM-NTS induced greater toxicity to plants as compared to those with DOM-HES. In addition to DOM affecting chlorotoluron-induced toxicity to wheat plants, the cultivars could have also contributed to differences. Generally, NM-9 showed a higher sensitivity to chlorotoluron than YM 158 either in the absence or in the presence of DOM.
ARAG1, an ABA-responsive DREB gene, plays a role in seed germination and drought tolerance of rice.	DREB proteins are involved mainly in plant responses to abiotic stresses such as cold, drought or high salinity as well as ABA signalling. However, the function of most rice DREB genes and the underlying molecular mechanisms controlling these responses remains elusive. In this study, ARAG1, a rice DREB gene, was functionally analysed.
The significance of unripe seeds and animal tissues in the protein nutrition of herbivores.	Many herbivorous animals selectively eat flowers and unripe fruit or seeds. Some preferentially eat new tissues growing from germinating seeds. This behaviour enables access to otherwise limited or unavailable amino acids that are necessary to sustain successful production and growth of young. For the same reason the diet of breeding females and neonates of many presumed strictly herbivorous animals is supplemented with animal protein. However, because these foods are often only eaten for limited periods, and make up only a small proportion of the total diet, they are usually dismissed as unimportant to the animals' nutrition. It is suggested that actively looking for such feeding may well reveal it to be far more common and important to the successful breeding of herbivores than has been thought in the past.
Gradients of seed photosynthesis and its role for oxygen balancing.	Seeds are generally viewed in the context of plant reproduction and the supply of food and feed, but only seldom as a site of photosynthesis. However, the seeds of many plant species are green, at least during their early development, which raises the issue of the significance of this greening for seed development. Here we describe the two contrasting modes of photosynthesis in the developing seed. The dicotyledonous pea seed has a green embryo, while the monocotyledonous barley caryopsis has a chlorenchymatic layer surrounding its non-green endosperm (storage organ). We have employed pulse-amplitude-modulated fluorescence and oxygen-sensitive microsensors to localize and describe gradient distributions of photosynthetic activity across the seed/caryopsis, and have discussed its role in maintaining the endogenous O₂ balance. We also report the lack of photosynthetic activity in the stay-green embryo axis of the sacred lotus (Nelumbo nucifera) seed following imbibition. The observations are discussed with respect to in vivo light supply and contrasted with the characteristics of leaf photosynthesis.
Missing and forbidden links in mutualistic networks.	Ecological networks are complexes of interacting species, but not all potential links among species are realized. Unobserved links are either missing or forbidden. Missing links exist, but require more sampling or alternative ways of detection to be verified. Forbidden links remain unobservable, irrespective of sampling effort. They are caused by linkage constraints. We studied one Arctic pollination network and two Mediterranean seed-dispersal networks. In the first, for example, we recorded flower-visit links for one full season, arranged data in an interaction matrix and got a connectance C of 15 per cent. Interaction accumulation curves documented our sampling of interactions through observation of visits to be robust. Then, we included data on pollen from the body surface of flower visitors as an additional link 'currency'. This resulted in 98 new links, missing from the visitation data. Thus, the combined visit-pollen matrix got an increased C of 20 per cent. For the three networks, C ranged from 20 to 52 per cent, and thus the percentage of unobserved links (100 - C) was 48 to 80 per cent; these were assumed forbidden because of linkage constraints and not missing because of under-sampling. Phenological uncoupling (i.e. non-overlapping phenophases between interacting mutualists) is one kind of constraint, and it explained 22 to 28 per cent of all possible, but unobserved links. Increasing phenophase overlap between species increased link probability, but extensive overlaps were required to achieve a high probability. Other kinds of constraint, such as size mismatch and accessibility limitations, are briefly addressed.
Kin recognition, not competitive interactions, predicts root allocation in young Cakile edentula seedling pairs.	• Recent studies have demonstrated sibling vs stranger differences in group root allocation in plants, suggesting that plants have the potential for kin discrimination in competition. However, morphology differences could potentially be generated by competition-based mechanisms. Here, we tested these hypotheses for the sibling vs stranger differences in root allocation in Cakile edentula. • Seeds were planted in pairs of either kin (siblings) or strangers, from all combinations of eight families, to give eight kin (sibling) and 28 stranger pair identities. Because the species has a seed dimorphism, the 10 replicates of each pair identity included both seed types. Root allocation, size inequality between seedlings in a pair, and competitive ability were derived from measures of biomass and height. • Cakile edentula seedlings demonstrated the same kin recognition response previously observed in juvenile plants, with lower root allocation in kin pairs than stranger pairs. The seed dimorphism was not associated with root allocation. • The two competitive mechanisms, genetic differences in competitive ability and increased size inequality in stranger groups, did not explain the root allocation differences in these seedlings. Kin recognition offered the most probable explanation for the differences in root allocation between sibling and stranger pairs.
The influence of cone age on the relative longevity of Banksia seeds.	Serotiny is common in the genus Banksia, so any seed collection is likely to be comprised of seeds that were produced in many different years. This study aimed to determine the impact of cone age and degree of serotiny on longevity in ex situ storage.
LEUNIG_HOMOLOG and LEUNIG regulate seed mucilage extrusion in Arabidopsis.	LEUNIG (LUG) and LEUNIG_HOMOLOG (LUH) encode two closely related Arabidopsis proteins, belonging to the Gro/TLE family of transcriptional co-repressors. These two genes were previously shown to exhibit partially overlapping functions in embryo and flower development. In this report, the role of both LUH and LUG on seed mucilage extrusion was examined. Seed mucilage extrusion occurs after the seeds are imbibed, serving as functional aid in seed hydration, germination, and dispersal. While luh-1 mutants exhibited strong defects in seed mucilage extrusion, lug-3 mutants exhibited a minor phenotype in mucilage extrusion. Further characterization indicates that luh-1 does not exhibit any obvious defect in seed epidermal cell differentiation, mucilage synthesis, or mucilage deposition, suggesting a specific role of LUH in mucilage extrusion. This seed mucilage phenotype of luh-1 is identical to that of mucilage modified 2 (mum2) mutants. MUM2 encodes a β-galactosidase required for the modification of the mucilage. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction of RNA extracted from siliques detected a slight decrease of MUM2 mRNA in the luh-1 mutant compared to the wild type. Together, LUH and possibly LUG may specifically regulate mucilage extrusion by promoting the expression of genes required for mucilage maturation.
Multiple mechanisms underlie rapid expansion of an invasive alien plant.	• With growing concerns over serious ecological problems, a particular challenge is to reveal the complex mechanisms underlying rapid expansion of invasive species. Ageratina adenophora is of particular interest in addressing this question. • We used geographic information systems and logistic regression to identify the geographic and environmental factors contributing to the presence of A. adenophora. Join-count spatial statistics with reproduction mode examination were employed to elucidate the spatiotemporal dispersal mechanisms. • Multiple factors have significantly contributed to the rapid expansion of A. adenophora. Its biological traits, favoring dispersal by water and wind coupled with local spatiotemporally heterogeneous geography and ecology, promote invasion downstream and upstream along river valleys, while other factors associated with human activities facilitate its invasion over high mountains and across river valleys, providing new scope for progressive invasions. We further identified an unusual invasion event of A. adenophora subsequent to a great flood that amplified its dispersal ability from vegetative propagules and seeds. • These findings suggest that dynamic interactions of multiple factors in heterogeneous ecogeographical environments - a 'combinatorial' invasion mechanism - would generate an unexpected invasion rate of an alien species or a seemingly stochastic invasion event.
Seed longevity and germination characteristics of six fen plant species.	Fens are among the most threatened habitats in Europe as their area has decreased considerably in the last centuries. For successful management and restoration conservationists need detailed knowledge about seed bank formation and seed longevity of plants, as these features are closely related to successional and vegetation dynamical processes. I analysed seed longevity and the germination characteristics of six fen plant species by seed burial experiments. Based on seed weight, seed bank was expected for long-term persistent for the light-seeded Schoenus nigricans, Carex appropinquata, C. pseudocyperus, C. davalliana and Peucedanum palustre and also that for the medium-seeded Cicuta virosa. It was proved that, the latter two species have short-term persistent seed banks, while Carex pseudocyperus has a transient seed bank, therefore these species may only have a limited role in restoration from seed banks. It was found that Schoenus nigricans, Carex appropinquata and C. davalliana have persistent seed banks, because some of their four-year-old seeds have emerged. Fresh seeds had low germination rate in all studied species and majority of seeds emerged after winter, except for Carex pseudocyperus. After the germination peak in spring, the majority of the ungerminated seeds of Schoenus nigricans, Peucedanum palustre, Carex appropinquata, C. davalliana and Cicuta virosa entered a secondary dormancy phase that was broken in autumn. I found the seasonal emergence of the latter three species highly similar.
Targeted mRNA oxidation regulates sunflower seed dormancy alleviation during dry after-ripening.	After-ripening is the mechanism by which dormant seeds become nondormant during their dry storage after harvest. The absence of free water in mature seeds does not allow detectable metabolism; thus, the processes associated with dormancy release under these conditions are largely unknown. We show here that sunflower (Helianthus annuus) seed alleviation of dormancy during after-ripening is associated with mRNA oxidation and that this oxidation is prevented when seeds are maintained dormant. In vitro approaches demonstrate that mRNA oxidation results in artifacts in cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphim analysis and alters protein translation. The oxidation of transcripts is not random but selective, and, using microarrays, we identified 24 stored mRNAs that became highly oxidized during after-ripening. Oxidized transcripts mainly correspond to genes involved in responses to stress and in cell signaling. Among them, protein phosphatase 2C PPH1, mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase 1, and phenyl ammonia lyase 1 were identified. We propose that targeted mRNA oxidation during dry after-ripening of dormant seeds could be a process that governs cell signaling toward germination in the early steps of seed imbibition.
A guideline to family-wide comparative state-of-the-art quantitative RT-PCR analysis exemplified with a Brassicaceae cross-species seed germination case study.	Comparative biology includes the comparison of transcriptome and quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) data sets in a range of species to detect evolutionarily conserved and divergent processes. Transcript abundance analysis of target genes by qRT-PCR requires a highly accurate and robust workflow. This includes reference genes with high expression stability (i.e., low intersample transcript abundance variation) for correct target gene normalization. Cross-species qRT-PCR for proper comparative transcript quantification requires reference genes suitable for different species. We addressed this issue using tissue-specific transcriptome data sets of germinating Lepidium sativum seeds to identify new candidate reference genes. We investigated their expression stability in germinating seeds of L. sativum and Arabidopsis thaliana by qRT-PCR, combined with in silico analysis of Arabidopsis and Brassica napus microarray data sets. This revealed that reference gene expression stability is higher for a given developmental process between distinct species than for distinct developmental processes within a given single species. The identified superior cross-species reference genes may be used for family-wide comparative qRT-PCR analysis of Brassicaceae seed germination. Furthermore, using germinating seeds, we exemplify optimization of the qRT-PCR workflow for challenging tissues regarding RNA quality, transcript stability, and tissue abundance. Our work therefore can serve as a guideline for moving beyond Arabidopsis by establishing high-quality cross-species qRT-PCR.
Specific features of plants at early stages of the colonization of loose volcanic matter]	Plant morphology and seed germination have been studied in several species joining monodominant beds of pioneer plant species on loose volcanic matter on the Kamchatka Peninsula and Kuril Islands. The competition of these species is discussed.
Soil biota drive expression of genetic variation and development of population-specific feedbacks in an invasive plant.	Invasive plant species alter soils in ways that may affect the success of subsequent generations, creating plant-soil feedbacks. Ailanthus altissima is an invasive tree introduced two centuries ago to North America. We hypothesized that geographically distinct populations of A. altissima have established feedbacks specific to their local environment, due to soil communities cultivated by A. altissima. We collected seeds and soils from three populations in the eastern United States, and in the greenhouse reciprocally planted all families in all collected soils as well as in a control mixed soil, and in soils that had been irradiated for sterilization. There were positive plant-soil feedbacks for two populations in the live field-collected soils, but strong negative feedbacks for the third population. There were no population-level performance differences or feedbacks in the sterilized population locale soils, supporting a soil biotic basis for feedbacks and for the expression of genetic differentiation in A. altissima. If populations of Ailanthus altissima vary in the extent to which they benefit from and promote these plant-soil biota feedbacks, the interaction between invader and invaded community may be more important in determining the course of invasion than are the characteristics of either alone.
Species richness matters for the quality of ecosystem services: a test using seed dispersal by frugivorous birds.	The positive link between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning is a current paradigm in ecological science. However, little is known of how different attributes of species assemblages condition the quality of many services in real ecosystems affected by human impact. We explore the links between the attributes of a frugivore assemblage and the quantitative and qualitative components of its derived ecosystem service, seed dispersal, along a landscape-scale gradient of anthropogenic forest loss. Both the number and the richness of seeds being dispersed were positively related to frugivore abundance and richness. Seed dispersal quality, determined by the fine-scale spatial patterns of seed deposition, mostly depended on frugivore richness. In fact, richness was the only attribute of the frugivore assemblage affecting the probability of seed dispersal into deforested areas of the landscape. The positive relationships between frugivore richness per se (i.e. independent of frugivore abundance and composition) and all components of seed dispersal suggest the existence of functional complementarity and/or facilitation between frugivores. These links also point to the whole assemblage of frugivores as a conservation target, if we aim to preserve a complete seed dispersal service and, hence, the potential for vegetation regeneration and recovery, in human-impacted landscapes.
Adaptive transgenerational plasticity in an annual plant: grandparental and parental drought stress enhance performance of seedlings in dry soil.	Stressful parental (usually maternal) environments can dramatically influence expression of traits in offspring, in some cases resulting in phenotypes that are adaptive to the inducing stress. The ecological and evolutionary impact of such transgenerational plasticity depends on both its persistence across generations and its adaptive value. Few studies have examined both aspects of transgenerational plasticity within a given system. Here we report the results of a growth-chamber study of adaptive transgenerational plasticity across two generations, using the widespread annual plant Polygonum persicaria as a naturally evolved model system. We grew five inbred Polygonum genetic lines in controlled dry vs. moist soil environments for two generations in a fully factorial design, producing replicate individuals of each genetic line with all permutations of grandparental and parental environment. We then measured the effects of these two-generational stress histories on traits critical for functioning in dry soil, in a third (grandchild) generation of seedling offspring raised in the dry treatment. Both grandparental and parental moisture environment significantly influenced seedling development: seedlings of drought-stressed grandparents or parents produced longer root systems that extended deeper and faster into dry soil compared with seedlings of the same genetic lines whose grandparents and/or parents had been amply watered. Offspring of stressed individuals also grew to a greater biomass than offspring of nonstressed parents and grandparents. Importantly, the effects of drought were cumulative over the course of two generations: when both grandparents and parents were drought-stressed, offspring had the greatest provisioning, germinated earliest, and developed into the largest seedlings with the most extensive root systems. Along with these functionally appropriate developmental effects, seedlings produced after two previous drought-stressed generations had significantly greater survivorship in very dry soil than did seedlings with no history of drought. These findings show that plastic responses to naturalistic resource stresses experienced by grandparents and parents can "preadapt" offspring for functioning under the same stresses in ways that measurably influence realized fitness. Possible implications of these environmentally-induced, inherited adaptations are discussed with respect to ecological distribution, persistence under novel stresses, and evolution in natural populations.
Climate warming could shift the timing of seed germination in alpine plants.	Despite the considerable number of studies on the impacts of climate change on alpine plants, there have been few attempts to investigate its effect on regeneration. Recruitment from seeds is a key event in the life-history of plants, affecting their spread and evolution and seasonal changes in climate will inevitably affect recruitment success. Here, an investigation was made of how climate change will affect the timing and the level of germination in eight alpine species of the glacier foreland.
Effect of storage conditions and storage periods on seed germination in eleven populations of Swertia chirayita: a critically endangered medicinal herb in Himalaya.	Effect of different storage conditions (room temperature, 4°C, and -15°C) and different storage periods over 24 months on seed germination in Swertia chirayita collected from different altitudes in Sikkim Himalaya was determined. Multivariate ANOVA revealed significant (P < 0.0001) effect of storage condition and storage period on seed germination and mean germination time. Seed germination percentage significantly (P < 0.01) varied between 87.78% (Sc5) and 100% (Sc2) during initial testing. Comparatively, high seed germination, low mean germination time, and low rate of fall in seed germination percentage in seeds stored at 4°C over different storage period were recorded. In addition, above 50% seed germination in majority of the populations even after 24 months of storage suggests 4°C as the most appropriate storage condition for long-term storage of seeds of S. chirayita.
Soil nutrient supply modulates temperature-induction cues in mast-seeding grasses.	Synchronous and intermittent reproduction in long-lived plants, known as mast seeding, is induced by climatic cues, but the mechanism explaining variation in masting among neighboring but edaphically segregated species is unknown. Soil nutrients can enhance flowering, and thus, populations on nutrient-rich soils may require less-favorable growing temperatures to flower. We tested this hypothesis by predicting the probability of flowering in response to air temperature for five species of alpine Chionochloa grasses in South Island, New Zealand, over 37 years and relating our predictions to soil N supply (NH4(+) + NO3(-)). Summer air temperatures better predicted flowering than spring air temperatures, which were correlated with soil N mineralization. Species on N-rich soils required lower mean temperatures to induce flowering and/or responded more consistently across a gradient of air temperatures, contributing to the higher probability of their tillers and tussocks flowering at low summer temperatures. Our results suggest that flowering primarily occurs in response to warm summer temperatures, but species on N-rich soils require less favorable growing conditions because they invest relatively less N in seeds. Thus, predicting masting requires a consideration of the interactions among climate, the internal resources of plants, and mineral nutrient uptake.
Experimental manipulation of seed shadows of an Afrotropical tree determines drivers of recruitment.	The loss of animals in tropical forests may alter seed dispersal patterns and reduce seedling recruitment of tree species, but direct experimental evidence is scarce. We manipulated dispersal patterns of Manilkara mabokeensis, a monkey-dispersed tree, to assess the extent to which spatial distributions of seeds drive seedling recruitment. Based on the natural seed shadow, we created seed distributions with seeds deposited under the canopy ("no dispersal"), with declining density from the tree ("natural dispersal"), and at uniform densities ("good dispersal"). These distributions mimicked dispersal patterns that could occur with the extirpation of monkeys, low levels of hunting, and high rates of seed dispersal. We monitored seedling emergence and survival for 18 months and recorded the number of leaves and damage to leaves. "Good dispersal" increased seedling survival by 26%, and "no dispersal" decreased survival by 78%, relative to "natural dispersal." Using a mixed-effects survival model, we decoupled the distance and density components of the seed shadow: seedling survival depended on the seed density, but not on the distance from the tree. Although community seedling diversity tended to decrease with longer dispersal distances, we found no conclusive evidence that patterns of seed dispersal influence the diversity of the seedling community. Local seed dispersal does affect seedling recruitment and survival, with better dispersal resulting in higher seedling recruitment; hence the loss of dispersal services that comes with the reduction or extirpation of seed dispersers will decrease regeneration of some tree species.
Postdispersal seed predation limits the abundance of a long-lived perennial forb (Lithospermum ruderale).	Loss of seeds to consumers is common in plant communities, but the degree to which these losses influence plant abundance or population growth is often unclear. This is particularly the case for postdispersal seed predation by rodents, as most studies of rodent seed predation have focused on the sources of spatiotemporal variation in seed loss but not quantified the population consequences of this loss. In previous work we showed that seed predation by deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) substantially reduced seedling recruitment and establishment of Lithospermum ruderale (Boraginaceae), a long-lived perennial forb. To shed light on how rodent seed predation and the near-term effects on plant recruitment might influence longer-term patterns of L. ruderale population growth, we combined experimental results with demographic data in stage-based population models. Model outputs revealed that rodent seed predation had a significant impact on L. ruderale population growth rate (lambda). With the removal of postdispersal seed predation, the projected population growth rates increased between 0.06 and 0.12, depending on site (mean deltalambda across sites = 0.08). Seed predation shifted the projected stable stage distribution of populations from one with a high proportion of young plants to one in which larger adult size classes dominate. Elasticities of vital rates also changed, with germination and growth of seedlings and young plants becoming more important with the removal of seed predation. Simulations varying the magnitude of seed predation pressure while holding other vital rates constant showed that seed predation could lower lambda even if only 40% of available seeds were consumed. These results demonstrate that rodent granivory can be a potent force limiting the abundance of a long-lived perennial forb.
Changes in seed dispersal processes and the potential for between-patch connectivity for an arid land daisy.	Dispersal is a major and critical process in population biology that has been particularly challenging to study. Animals can have major roles in seed dispersal even in species that do not appear specifically adapted to animal-aided dispersal. This can occur by two processes: direct movement of diaspores by animals and modification of landscape characteristics by animals in ways that greatly influence dispersal. We exploited the production of large, persistent dispersal structures (seed heads, henceforth) by Erodiophyllum elderi (Asteraceae), a daisy from arid Australia, to further understand secondary dispersal. Seed head dispersal on and off animal tracks in eight E. elderi patches was monitored for 9.5 months by periodically recording the location of marked seed heads. Sites were located inside a reserve that excludes sheep but not kangaroos, and in a nearby area with both kangaroos and sheep. The distance moved and likelihood of seed head movement was higher in areas with sheep, and especially along animal tracks. There was clear evidence that seed heads were channeled down animal tracks during large rainfall events. Seed head dispersal away from patches occurred to a limited extent via their physical contact with sheep and potentially via wind dispersal. Thus, the advantages of this study system allowed us to demonstrate the two postulated effects of herbivores on dispersal via direct movement of seed heads, and two distinct indirect effects through landscape modification by herbivores from the creation of animal tracks and the denudation of vegetation.
Evaluation of maize grain and polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) as energy sources for breeding rams based on hormonal, sperm functional parameters and fertility.	The objective of the present study was to elucidate the effect of different sources of dietary energy (maize vs polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) on semen functional parameters and fertility of adult rams. Eighteen adult rams were divided into two groups (maize and PUFA, n=9). The main energy source for the rams in the maize group was coarsely ground maize grain, whereas in the PUFA group it was sunflower oil (rich in 18:2 linoleic acid, an omega-6 acid). The ration was fed for a minimum period of 60 days and thereafter semen was collected for evaluation. The proportion of progressive forward motility was significantly (P<0.05) higher in the PUFA group compared with the maize group. Sperm lipid peroxidation as measured by malondialdehyde formation (µM per 1×10(9) spermatozoa) was significantly (P<0.05) higher in the PUFA group compared with the maize group. When the semen was diluted with Tris-egg yolk-citrate buffer and incubated for 24h at 4°C, the proportions of plasmalemma integrity, the sperm subpopulation positive for functional membrane and acrosomal integrities, and mitochondrial membrane potential were significantly (P<0.05) higher in PUFA-fed than in maize-fed animals. The different sources of energy did not influence the serum and seminal plasma IGF-I levels. The cleavage rate (percentage) did not differ significantly between PUFA- (45.4±4.91) and maize- (44.63±6.8) fed animals. In conclusion, PUFA feeding influenced sperm quality by altering or stabilising membrane integrity. The present study indicates that PUFA may improve semen quality but did not improve in vitro fertilisation.
The origin of the plant body axis.	During embryogenesis, the basic body plan of an organism develops from a unicellular zygote. In most flowering plants, the polar zygote divides asymmetrically, making visible the apical-basal axis in the early embryo. The molecular mechanisms governing how the zygote polarizes and how this polarity is linked to embryo axis formation have been obscure, mainly owing to the difficulties to access the zygote that is deeply embedded in the maternal tissue. In this review, we summarize recent findings identifying key regulators in Arabidopsis and developing novel approaches in various plant species, which altogether set the stage for unraveling embryo axis formation.
Low rate of between-population seed dispersal restricts genetic connectivity and metapopulation dynamics in a clonal shrub.	Clonal species normally have low seed production, low recruitment rates and long lifespans, and it is expected that the rates of long-distance dispersal (LDD) of seeds will be low as well. Banksia candolleana is a clonal shrub in Mediterranean-type, fire-prone sclerophyll shrublands of southwestern Australia, whose reproductive biology and population dynamics contrast with those of co-occurring nonclonal congeneric species, all of which are restricted to a mosaic of sand dunes set within a matrix of inhospitable swales. Using microsatellite markers, we genotyped 499 plants in all 15 populations of B. candolleana within a 12-km(2) area, assessed population genetic differentiation, and quantified the effective rate of interpopulation seed dispersal through genetic assignment of individuals to populations. We measured life history, reproductive and demographic attributes, and compared these with two co-occurring Banksia species, a non-clonal resprouter and a nonsprouter. B. candolleana has much higher levels of population genetic differentiation, and one-third the rate of interpopulation seed migration, as the other two species (2.2% vs 5.5-6.8% of genotyped plants inferred to be immigrants), though distances reached by LDD are comparable (0.3-2.3 km). The low rate of interpopulation dispersal was supported by an analysis of the age structure of three populations that suggests a mean interdune migration rate of <800 m in 200 years, and 60% of suitable dunes remain uninhabited. Thus, B. candolleana has poor properties for promoting long-distance dispersal. It is unclear if these are idiosyncratic to this species or whether such properties are to be expected of clonal species in general where LDD is less critical for species survival.
Fertilization recovery system is dependent on the number of pollen grains for efficient reproduction in plants.	For over a century, plant fertilization has been thought to depend on the fertility of a single pollen tube. However, we reported recently a "fertilization recovery system" in flowering plants that actively rescues failed fertilization of a defective mutant pollen tube by attracting a second, functional pollen tube. In typical flowering plants, two synergid cells beside the egg cell attract pollen tubes, one of which degenerates upon pollen tube discharge. We observed that fertilization was rescued when the second synergid cell accepted a wild-type pollen tube. Our results suggest that flowering plants precisely control the number of pollen tubes that arrive at each ovule and use a fertilization recovery mechanism to maximize the likelihood of successful seed set. Restricted pollination experiments showed that if sufficient pollen grains are provided, ovules attract a second pollen tube for recovery. These results support our previous finding that a long period of time is required for ovules to complete the system. 
Elucidating rice cell metabolism under flooding and drought stresses using flux-based modeling and analysis.	Rice (Oryza sativa) is one of the major food crops in world agriculture, especially in Asia. However, the possibility of subsequent occurrence of flood and drought is a major constraint to its production. Thus, the unique behavior of rice toward flooding and drought stresses has required special attention to understand its metabolic adaptations. However, despite several decades of research investigations, the cellular metabolism of rice remains largely unclear. In this study, in order to elucidate the physiological characteristics in response to such abiotic stresses, we reconstructed what is to our knowledge the first metabolic/regulatory network model of rice, representing two tissue types: germinating seeds and photorespiring leaves. The phenotypic behavior and metabolic states simulated by the model are highly consistent with our suspension culture experiments as well as previous reports. The in silico simulation results of seed-derived rice cells indicated (1) the characteristic metabolic utilization of glycolysis and ethanolic fermentation based on oxygen availability and (2) the efficient sucrose breakdown through sucrose synthase instead of invertase. Similarly, flux analysis on photorespiring leaf cells elucidated the crucial role of plastid-cytosol and mitochondrion-cytosol malate transporters in recycling the ammonia liberated during photorespiration and in exporting the excess redox cofactors, respectively. The model simulations also unraveled the essential role of mitochondrial respiration during drought stress. In the future, the combination of experimental and in silico analyses can serve as a promising approach to understand the complex metabolism of rice and potentially help in identifying engineering targets for improving its productivity as well as enabling stress tolerance. 
Landscape-scale eco-evolutionary dynamics: selection by seed predators and fire determine a major reproductive strategy.	Recent work in model systems has demonstrated significant effects of rapid evolutionary change on ecological processes (eco-evolutionary dynamics). Fewer studies have addressed whether eco-evolutionary dynamics structure natural ecosystems. We investigated variation in the frequency of serotiny in lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta), a widespread species in which postfire seedling density and ecosystem structure are largely determined by serotiny. Serotiny, the retention of mature seeds in cones in a canopy seed bank, is thought to be an adaptation for stand-replacing fire, but less attention has been paid to the potential selective effects of seed predation on serotiny. We hypothesized that spatial variation in percentage serotiny in lodgepole pine forests results from an eco-evolutionary dynamic where the local level of serotiny depends on the relative strengths of conflicting directional selection from fire (favoring serotiny) and seed predation (favoring cones that open at maturity). We measured percentage serotiny, the abundance of American red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus; the primary pre-dispersal seed predator of lodgepole pine), and several measures of forest structure in Yellowstone National Park, USA. Fire frequency strongly predicted the frequency of serotiny, a pattern that is well-supported in the literature. At sites with high fire frequency (return intervals of -135-185 years) where fire favors increased serotiny, squirrel abundance was negatively associated with serotiny, suggesting that selection from predation can overwhelm selection from fire when squirrels are abundant. At sites with low fire frequency (return intervals of -280-310 years), serotiny was nearly universally uncommon (< 10%). Finally, forest structure strongly predicted squirrel density independently of serotiny, and serotiny provided no additional explanatory power, suggesting that the correlation is caused by selection against serotiny exerted by squirrels, rather than squirrels responding to variation in percentage serotiny.
Indirect effects of an invasive annual grass on seed fates of two native perennial grass species.	Invasive plants exhibit both direct and indirect negative effects on recruitment of natives following invasion. We examined indirect effects of the invader Bromus tectorum (cheatgrass) on seed fates of two native grass species, Elymus elymoides and Pseudoroegneria spicata, by removing B. tectorum and by adding inoculum of the shared seed pathogen Pyrenophora semeniperda in factorial experiments at xeric and mesic field sites. We also included a supplemental watering treatment to increase emergence and also the potential for pathogen escape. We recorded emergence and survival of native seedlings and also determined the fate of unemerged seeds. At the xeric site, Pyrenophora-caused mortality was high (34%), and effects of other pathogens and failed emergence of germinants were smaller. Cheatgrass removal negatively affected both emergence (35 vs. 25%) and spring survival (69 vs. 42%). Pyrenophora-caused seed mortality increased with inoculum augmentation for both species (22 vs. 47% overall), but emergence was negatively impacted only for P. spicata (20 vs. 34%). At the mesic site, Pyrenophora-caused mortality was low (6%). Cheatgrass removal doubled emergence (26 vs. 14%). Seed mortality increased significantly with inoculum augmentation for P. spicata (12 vs. 5%) but not E. elymoides, while emergence was not significantly affected in either species. A large fraction of seeds produced germinants that failed to emerge (37%), while another large fraction (35%) was killed by other pathogens. We conclude that facilitation by cheatgrass at the xeric site but interference at the mesic site was probably mediated through litter effects that could be ameliorative or suppressive. Apparent competition between cheatgrass and native grasses could occur through Pyrenophora, especially in a xeric environment, but effects were weak or absent at emergence. This was probably because Pyrenophora attacks the same slow-germinating fraction that is subject to pre-emergence mortality from other causes, including attack by other pathogens such as Fusarium.
Distance to semi-natural grassland influences seed production of insect-pollinated herbs.	Marginal grassland fragments, such as road verges and field margins, may act as important supplemental habitats for grassland plants in the modern agricultural landscape. However, abundance of pollinators in such fragments has been found to decline with distance to larger natural and semi-natural habitats, and this could have corresponding effects on plant pollination. In this study, we performed a field experiment on road verges with three insect-pollinated grassland herbs to examine the relationship between distance to semi-natural grassland and plant reproductive success in two landscapes with contrasting farming intensities. In Lychnis viscaria and Lotus corniculatus, seed production tended to decrease with increasing distance to semi-natural grassland, but only in the landscape with high farming intensity. Seed production in Armeria maritima spp. maritima decreased with distance in both landscapes. Although many studies have investigated effects of natural habitat on crop pollination, little is known about the impact on pollination in native plants. The results from this study indicate that management of semi-natural grasslands improves not only biodiversity within the actual grassland but also pollination of native plants in the surrounding agricultural landscape. 
Regulation of fertilization and early seed development.	Plant reproduction meetings often deal either with pre-fertilization processes such as flowering and pollen biology or post-fertilization processes such as embryogenesis and seed development. The Biochemical Society Focused Meeting entitled 'Regulation of Fertilization and Early Seed Development' was organized to close this gap and to discuss mechanistic similarities and future research directions in the reproductive processes shortly before, during and after fertilization. As an outcome of the workshop, invited speakers and a few selected oral communication presenters contributed focused reviews and technical articles for this issue of Biochemical Society Transactions. We provide here a short overview of the contents and highlights of the various articles. 
Methods to promote germination of dormant Setaria viridis seeds.	Setaria viridis has recently emerged as a promising genetic model system to study diverse aspects of monocot biology. While the post-germination life cycle of S. viridis is approximately 8 weeks long, the prolonged dormancy of freshly harvested seeds can more than double the total time required between successive generations. Here we describe methods that promote seed germination in S. viridis. Our results demonstrate that treating S. viridis seeds with liquid smoke or a GA3 and KNO3 solution improves germination rates to 90% or higher even in seeds that are 6 days post-harvest with similar results obtained whether seeds are planted in soil or on gel-based media. Importantly, we show that these treatments have no significant effect on the growth of the adult plant. We have tested these treatments on diverse S. viridis accessions and show variation in their response. The methods described here will help advance research using this model grass species by increasing the pace at which successive generations of plants can be analyzed. 
Germination and seedling growth of Artemisia halodendron under different incubation environments]	Artemisia halodendron is a dominant species in mobile and semi-mobile dunes of Horqin Sand Land. To investigate the germination character and seedling growth under different temperature and light conditions, the germination rate, germination index and growth of radicle and plumule were measured after treatments in laboratory and heating cabinet incubations. In the laboratory the light and temperature were near to nature condition, while in the heating cabinet it was kept at 25 degrees C with varying durations of light supply, including 24-, 12- and 0-hour light per day. Germination rate (66.6%) and germination index (19.1%) under laboratory condition were both significantly lower than in the heating cabinet (P < 0.05). In the heating cabinet, the germination rate under 0-hour light was 70.2%, which was insignificantly lower (P > 0.05) than under 12- and 24-hour light conditions (both 73.4%), and the germination index under 24-hour light was 28.2%, which was significantly (P < 0.05) lower than under 0- and 12-hour light conditions (31.3% and 30.8%, respectively). Radicle and plumule growth responded to light more readily than the seed germination rate and germination index during the process of germination, and the radicle growth was inhibited by darkness while promoted by light, and the plumule lengths under 0- and 12-hour light conditions were 2.81 cm and 1.51 cm, respectively, significantly higher than under 24-hour light (1.21 cm) and natural condition (1.27 cm). It was concluded that temperature was a main factor in seed germination, and seedling growth was mainly influenced by light regime.
Effects of coat and sowing depth on seed germination and early seedling growth of Quercus wutaishanica]	Under shade environment in glasshouse, the effects of seed coat and sowing depth (0, 2, 5, 10 or 15 cm) on seed germination and early seedling growth of Quercus wutaishanica were studied. Seed coat had obvious inhibiting effects on the germination of Q. wutaishanica seeds. The germination percentage of uncoated seeds increased significantly, averagely by 19.4% at different sowing depths. The germination index and vigor index were increased significantly and the germination was speeded in the peeling treatment. The germination percentages of uncoated and coated seeds were the highest at the sowing depth of 2 cm with 78.9% and 62.2%, respectively. The germination index and vigor index were the highest at the sowing depth of 2 cm, while the coefficient of rate of germination were the highest at the sowing depth of 5 cm. Leaf area per seedling and dry mass of seedlings increased significantly in the peeling treatment compared with those in the unpeeling treatment, but specific root length decreased significantly. The shoot height in the peeling and unpeeling treatments were the highest at the sowing depth of 5 cm with 13.8 and 14.2 cm, respectively. With the increasing of sowing depth, the basal stem diameter of seedlings increased, but tap-root length, number of lateral root and maximum of lateral root all decreased. Sowing depth had little influence on dry mass of seedlings.
Polyamine distribution among maize embryonic tissues and its relation to seed germination.	Polyamines are known to participate in the control of cell division. In the present report, the levels and distribution of polyamines in the embryonic tissues of maize seeds were studied to relate them to the reinitiation of cell division during seed germination. Results indicate higher contents of polyamines in scutellum than in axis tissues of dry seeds. After germination, larger increments of the three polyamines were obtained in axes, rather than in scutella. Seeds of low viability did not show putrescine increments after germination. It is suggested that spermidine and spermine are directly related to the germination process.
Population dynamics of mutant alleles under maternal effect in plant populations.	Fitness interactions via maternal effects were analyzed by constructing a mathematical model. Here, the fitness of an individual is determined by its own phenotype and the maternal phenotype. It is assumed that two alternative phenotypic states are determined by two alleles at a single locus. Under this assumption, the model developed here reduces to a social selection model of human populations that considers that the fitness of an individual is determined by the individual as well as the parental phenotypes. The effect on genetic variability of random fluctuations in the magnitude of maternal effects was studied by considering the fixation probability and the equilibrium frequency of mutant genes. It is shown that genetic variability decreases as the magnitude of variation in maternal effect intensity increases.
Investigations on biosatellites of the Cosmos series.	Over the past decade, the USSR has launched six biosatellites of the Cosmos series. The first biosatellite flew 6 d; the remaining five flew 18-21 d. The principal purpose of this investigation was to continue studies on the adaptation of living systems to weightlessness; to investigate the modifying effect of weightlessness on the organism's radiosensitivity; and, to examine the biological effects of artificial gravity. The investigations involved 37 kinds of biological models; rats were the principal test models. It was established that weightlessness induces in the organism symptoms of moderately pronounced stress together with a number of other specific changes. First and foremost are changes in the locomotor system (atrophy of the muscles and lowered mechanical strength of the bones, as examples). An artificial gravity of 1 G employed during space flight helps preserve the "terrestrial" rate of functioning of most physiological systems in the organism. The irradiation of rats during space flight from the Cesium-137 isotope revealed no tangible modifying effect of weightlessness on the course of radiation injuries. No distinct effect of weightlessness on the intracellular processes of vital activity has yet been observed. Contradictory results have been obtained in the growth and development of organisms during weightlessness.
Structural transformation and modulation of succinic dehydrogenase activity in the mitochondria of germinating seeds.	Ultrastructural transformation of mitochondria in the cotyledons of dry and germinating seeds of Vigna sinensis from the 'orthodox' to 'condensed' forms is coupled with an increasing rise in the specific activity of succinic dehydrogenase (SDH). Apparently, the transformation of mitochondria to the 'condensed' form associated with the utilization of substrate which is reflected in the rise in enzyme activity. During the process of germination, the mitochondria of the cotyledonary cells undergo three different phases namely, (1) activation phase, (2) preparatory phase, and (3) multiplication phase.
Thioredoxin and metabolic regulation.	The regulatory function of thioredoxin, discovered in studies on carbon dioxide assimilation in photosynthesis, was extended to enzymes of related biosynthetic reactions of chloroplasts early on. More recently, thioredoxin was found to perform a range of regulatory functions--from the germination of seeds to the division and development of animal cells. The renaissance in knowledge relating to its activity suggests that thioredoxin will, on the one hand, emerge as a principal regulator of fundamental processes in the major forms of life and, on the other, find application in technology and medicine.
Effects of heat treatment and germination on trypsin and chymotrypsin inhibitory activities in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) seeds.	There was no appreciable change in proteinase inhibitory activity in sorghum upon dry heat treatment. However, moist heating reduced trypsin and chymotrypsin inhibitors to a greater degree. Germination (5 days) brought about complete reduction in proteinase inhibitory activity.
A chestnut seed cystatin differentially effective against cysteine proteinases from closely related pests.	Cystatin CsC, a cysteine proteinase inhibitor from chestnut (Castanea sativa) seeds, has been purified and characterized. Its full-length cDNA clone was isolated from an immature chestnut cotyledon library. The inhibitor was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified from bacterial extracts. Identity of both seed and recombinant cystatin was confirmed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry analysis, two-dimensional electrophoresis and N-terminal sequencing. CsC has a molecular mass of 11,275 Da and pI of 6.9. Its amino acid sequence includes all three motifs that are thought to be essential for inhibitory activity, and shows significant identity to other phytocystatins, especially that of cowpea (70%). Recombinant CsC inhibited papain (Ki 29 nM), ficin (Ki 65 nM), chymopapain (Ki 366 nM), and cathepsin B (Ki 473 nM). By contrast with most cystatins, it was also effective towards trypsin (Ki 3489 nM). CsC is active against digestive proteinases from the insect Tribolium castaneum and the mite Dermatophagoides farinae, two important agricultural pests. Its effects on the cysteine proteinase activity of two closely related mite species revealed the high specificity of the chestnut cystatin.
