Effect of bioaccumulation of cadmium on biomass productivity, essential trace elements, chlorophyll biosynthesis, and macromolecules of wheat seedlings.	Soil contamination with heavy metals has become a worldwide problem, leading to losses in agricultural yield and hazardous human health effects as they enter the food chain. The present investigation was undertaken to examine the influence of cadmium (Cd2+) on the wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) plant. Cd2+ accumulation and distribution in 3-wk-old seedlings grown in nutrient medium containing varying concentrations of Cd2+ (control, 0.25, 0.50, 1.0, 2.5, and 5.0 mg/L) was monitored. The effect of varying Cd2+ concentrations up to 21 d on biomass productivity, plant growth, photosynthetic pigments, protein, amino acids, starch, soluble sugars, and essential nutrients uptake was studied in detail to explore the level up to which the plant can withstand the stress of heavy metal. Plants treated with 0.5, 1.0, 2.5, and 5.0 mg/L Cd2+ showed symptoms of heavy-metal toxicity as observed by various morphological parameters which were recorded with the growth of plants. The root, shoot-leaf length and the root, shoot-leaf biomass progressively decreased with increasing Cd2+ concentration in the nutrient medium. Cd2+ uptake and accumulation was found to be maximum during the initial growth period. Cd2+ also interfered with the nutrients uptake, especially calcium (Ca2+), magnesium (Mg2+), potassium (K+), iron (Fe2+), zinc (Zn2+), and manganese (Mn2+) from the growth medium. Growth reduction and altered levels of major biochemical constituents such as chlorophyll, protein, free amino acids, starch, and soluble sugars that play a major role in plant metabolism were observed in response to varying concentrations of Cd2+ in the nutrient medium. In the present study, the effects of Cd2+ on growth, biomass productivity, mineral nutrients, chlorophyll biosynthesis, protein, free amino acid, starch, and soluble sugars in wheat plants was estimated to establish an overall picture of the Cd2+ toxicity at structural and functional levels.
Effect of extractive substances and total glycoside fraction from Panax ginseng C. A. Meyer on root growth of Cucumis sativus L. seedlings]	We studied the effect of extractive substances (ES) and total glycoside fraction (TGF) from Panax ginseng on plant cell growth. The seeds of cucumber Cucumis sativus L., KIT variety, were used for the biological assay. The tested substances inhibited the primary root growth in Cucumis sativus seedlings. Actively growing seedlings were most sensitive to this effect.
Differential genotoxicity of ethyl methanesulphonate, N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea and maleic hydrazide in tobacco seedlings based on data of the Comet assay and two recombination assays.	The purpose of this study was to determine if mutagen-induced DNA damage is correlated with the frequency of induced recombination events. The alkylating agents ethyl methanesulphonate (EMS) and N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU), and the plant growth regulator and herbicide maleic hydrazide (MH) were compared in tobacco seedlings for their ability to induce DNA damage measured by the Comet assay, and recombination activity measured by the GUS gene reactivation assay, and by the somatic twin sectors assay. While EMS and ENU induced a dose-dependent increase in DNA damage in leaf nuclei, MH had no significant effect. By contrast, MH induced a 6-fold higher frequency of homologous recombination as expressed by the GUS assay and a 2.8-fold higher frequency of somatic twin sectors than after EMS treatments.
Effect of rare earth element europium on amaranthin synthesis in Amarathus caudatus seedlings.	Considering the resemblances between Eu3+ and Ca2+ in their atomic radius and structures of the valence electron, the effects of Eu3+ on amaramthin synthesis in Amarathus caudatus seedling were studied. Eu3+ had both promoting and inhibiting effects on amaramthin synthesis. The optimum promoting concentration and half inhibiting concentration of Eu3+ to synthesis of amaranthin were 0.4 mmol/L and 2.5 mmol/L, respectively. In the dark, A23187 (ions carrier) could carry Eu3+ into cells through the Ca2+ channel. When Ca2+ was chelated with EGTA, the synthesis of amaranthin could be partly retrieved by Eu3+. Eu3+ treatment could also activate Ca2+- ATPase on plasma membrane. Moreover, the sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis patterns of total proteins from the plants treated by Eu3+ and Ca2+ were similar but slightly different in the contents. It suggested that the effects of Eu3+ and Ca2+ on amaranthin synthesis were similar. After being treated by Eu3+ or Ca2+, the outside Ca2+ could enter into cells to promote synthesis of amaranthin. The results above indicated that Eu3+ might replace Ca2+ in the calcium/calmidulindependent phytochrome signal transduction system and play important roles in plant development by promoting calcium transportation across plasma membrane.
Betagamma-dehydrocurvularin and related compounds as nematicides of Pratylenchus penetrans from the fungus Aspergillus sp.	The new nematicidal compound, betagamma-dehydrocurvularin (1), together with three known compounds, alphabeta-dehydrocurvularin (2), 8-beta-hydroxy-7-oxocurvularin (3) and 7-oxocurvularin (4), were isolated from the culture filtrate and mycelial mats of Aspergillus sp. The structures of 1-4 were established by spectroscopic methods including 2D NMR. The biological activities of 1-4 were examined by bioassays with root-lesion nematodes, and lettuce and rice seedlings.
Induction of defence gene expression by oligogalacturonic acid requires increases in both cytosolic calcium and hydrogen peroxide in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Responses to oligogalacturonic acid (OGA) were determined in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings expressing the calcium reporter protein aequorin. OGA stimulated a rapid, substantial and transient increase in the concentration of cytosolic calcium ([Ca2+]cyt) that peaked after ca. 15 s. This increase was dose-dependent, saturating at ca. 50 ug Gal equiv/ml of OGA. OGA also stimulated a rapid generation of H2O2. A small, rapid increase in H2O2 content was followed by a much larger oxidative burst, with H2O2 content peaking after ca. 60 min and declining thereafter. Induction of the oxidative burst by OGA was also dose-dependent, with a maximum response again being achieved at ca. 50 ug Gal equiv/mL. Inhibitors of calcium fluxes inhibited both increases in [Ca2+]cyt and [H2O2], whereas inhibitors of NADPH oxidase blocked only the oxidative burst. OGA increased strongly the expression of the defence-related genes CHS, GST, PAL and PR-1. This induction was suppressed by inhibitors of calcium flux or NADPH oxidase, indicating that increases in both cytosolic calcium and H2O2 are required for OGA-induced gene expression.
Effects of host plant exposure to cadmium on mycorrhizal infection and soluble carbohydrate levels of Pinus sylvestris seedlings.	In a Cd-contaminated environment, not only mature trees but also their seeds and young seedlings can be exposed to Cd. Cadmium taken up by young seedlings may influence mycorrhizal infection, which might in turn influence resistance to Cd toxicity. In order to eliminate soil-mediated responses of mycorrhizal infection to Cd, Pinus sylvestris seedlings were exposed to Cd prior to fungal inoculation and replanted to clean substrates with fungal inoculum. Cadmium pretreatment reduced the proportion of living mycorrhizal short roots of seedlings inoculated with Paxillus involutus. However, no such effect was observed for seedlings inoculated with Suillus bovinus and Rhizopogon subcaerulescens. Therefore, infection by P. involutus appeared to be affected by Cd taken up by seedlings. Overall stem length and biomass of the seedlings were reduced by Cd pretreatment. Infection by S. bovinus and R. subcaerulescens increased stem length and biomass of the seedlings. Root soluble carbohydrate concentrations were lower in mycorrhizal seedlings than non-mycorrhizal seedlings.
Plant growth-promoting bacteria confer resistance in tomato plants to salt stress.	The object of the work is to evaluate whether rhizobacteria populating dry salty environments can increase resistance in tomato to salt stress. Seven strains of plant growth-promoting bacteria that have 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase activity were isolated from soil samples taken from the Arava region of southern Israel. Following growth of these seedlings in the presence of 43 mM NaCl for 7 weeks, the bacterium that promoted growth to the greatest extent was selected for further study. DNA analysis of the 16S RNA indicated that the selected bacterium was Achromobacter piechaudii. This bacterium significantly increased the fresh and dry weights of tomato seedlings grown in the presence of up to 172 mM NaCl salt. The bacterium reduced the production of ethylene by tomato seedlings, which was otherwise stimulated when seedlings were challenged with increasing salt concentrations, but did not reduce the content of sodium. However, it slightly increased the uptake of phosphorous and potassium, which may contribute in part to activation of processes involved in the alleviation of the effect of salt. In the presence of salt the bacterium increased the water use efficiency (WUE). This may suggest that the bacterium act to alleviate the salt suppression of photosynthesis. However, the detailed mechanism was not elucidated. The work described in this report is a first step in the development of productive agricultural systems in saline environments.
Isolation and characterization of novel mutants affecting the abscisic acid sensitivity of Arabidopsis germination and seedling growth.	To gain more insight into ABA signaling mechanisms, we conducted genetic screens searching for mutants with altered ABA response in germination and post-germination growth. We isolated seven putative ABA-hypersensitive Arabidopsis mutants and named them ABA-hypersensitive germination (ahg). These mutants exhibited diminished germination or growth ability on medium supplemented with ABA. We further studied four of them: ahg1, ahg2, ahg3 and ahg4. Mapping suggested that they were new ABA-hypersensitive loci. Characterization showed that all of them had enhanced sensitivity to salinity and high osmotic stress in germinating seeds, whereas they each had distinct sugar responses. RT-PCR experiments showed that the expression patterns of the ABA-inducible genes RAB18, AtEm1, AtEm6 and ABI5 in germinating seeds were affected by these four ahg mutations, whereas those of ABI3 and ABI4 were not. ahg4 displayed slightly increased mRNA levels of several ABA-inducible genes upon ABA treatment. By contrast, ahg1 had no clear ABA-hypersensitive phenotypes in adult plants despite its strong phenotype in germination. These results suggest that ahg1, ahg2, ahg3 and ahg4 are novel ABA-hypersensitive mutants representing distinct components in the ABA response.
Possible involvement of CS-ACS1 and ethylene in auxin-induced peg formation of cucumber seedlings.	Cucumber (Cucumis sativus) seedlings develop a peg on the concave side of the gravitropically bending transition zone between the hypocotyl and the root after seed germination. Peg initiation occurs in response to auxin when its levels in the concave side of the transition zone exceed a particular threshold through the graviresponse. Ethylene also plays an important role in peg formation, but its relationship to auxin in this event is not understood. Here, the role ethylene plays in auxin-induced peg formation is studied.
Proteomic analysis of salt stress-responsive proteins in rice root.	Salt stress is one of the major abiotic stresses in agriculture worldwide. We report here a systematic proteomic approach to investigate the salt stress-responsive proteins in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare). Three-week-old seedlings were treated with 150 mM NaCl for 24, 48 and 72 h. Total proteins of roots were extracted and separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. More than 1100 protein spots were reproducibly detected, including 34 that were up-regulated and 20 down-regulated. Mass spectrometry analysis and database searching helped us to identify 12 spots representing 10 different proteins. Three spots were identified as the same protein, enolase. While four of them were previously confirmed as salt stress-responsive proteins, six are novel ones, i.e. UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, cytochrome c oxidase subunit 6b-1, glutamine synthetase root isozyme, putative nascent polypeptide associated complex alpha chain, putative splicing factor-like protein and putative actin-binding protein. These proteins are involved in regulation of carbohydrate, nitrogen and energy metabolism, reactive oxygen species scavenging, mRNA and protein processing, and cytoskeleton stability. This study gives new insights into salt stress response in rice roots and demonstrates the power of the proteomic approach in plant biology studies.
Genetic and chemical analyses of the action mechanisms of sirtinol in Arabidopsis.	The synthetic molecule sirtinol was shown previously to activate the auxin signal transduction pathway. Here we present a combination of genetic and chemical approaches to elucidate the action mechanisms of sirtinol in Arabidopsis. Analysis of sirtinol derivatives indicated that the "active moiety" of sirtinol is 2-hydroxy-1-naphthaldehyde (HNA), suggesting that sirtinol undergoes a series of transformations in Arabidopsis to generate HNA, which then is converted to 2-hydroxy-1-naphthoic acid (HNC), which activates auxin signaling. A key step in the activation of sirtinol is the conversion of HNA to HNC, which is likely catalyzed by an aldehyde oxidase. Mutations in any of the genes that are responsible for synthesizing the molybdopterin cofactor, an essential cofactor for aldehyde oxidases, led to resistance to sirtinol, probably caused by the compromised capacity of the mutants to convert HNA to HNC. We also showed that sirtinol and HNA could bypass the auxin polar transport system and that they were transported efficiently to aerial parts of seedlings, whereas HNC and 1-naphthoic acid were essentially not absorbed by Arabidopsis seedlings, suggesting that sirtinol and HNA are useful tools for auxin studies.
Effect of toxic cations on copper rhizotoxicity in wheat seedlings.	Copper pollution may occur in acidic soils where the low pH leads to release of Al and Mn in soil solution, which could interact with Cu toxicity. Very little information exists regarding the influence of toxic cations on the phytotoxicity of Cu. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that phytotoxicity of Cu2+ may be overestimated in acidic soils due to synergism between Al or Mn and Cu toxicity. Rhizotoxicity of Al, Mn, and Cu to wheat seedlings was studied in well-defined nutrient solutions, with these elements present singly or in combination. Toxicity was expressed on a solution metal-activity basis, with metal activities calculated using GEOCHEM-PC and verified using Donnan dialysis. Of the three ions, Cu2+ was the most rhizotoxic, with activities of Cu2+, Al3+, and Mn2+ resulting in a 25% reduction in root elongation of 0.12, 1.26, and 211 microM, respectively. Although there was no interaction between Mn2+ and Cu2+ toxicity, Cu2+ was significantly less toxic on a relative basis in the presence of Al3+. Thus, critical thresholds for soil solution Cu2+ activity determined in acidic soils will be underprotective compared to soils that contain low concentrations of soluble Al (e.g., limed or nonacidic soils).
Reduced clastogenic activity of maleic hydrazide in Vicia faba seedlings grown in a situation of overcrowding stress.	A pre-treatment stress situation of overcrowding of Vicia faba seedlings in the phase of germination and growth influenced their subsequent sensibility to treatment with the mutagenic herbicide maleic hydrazide. The seedlings showed a significant reduction in the frequency of micronucleated cells when they grew in a strongly crowded manner compared with scattered and uniformly distributed seedlings (3.83% versus 11.46%). The findings do not provide evidence for the involvement of phytochelatins in response to stress conditions in this process: pre-treatment with buthionine sulfoximine, a specific inhibitor of phytochelatin synthesis, did not modify the response of the seedlings to maleic hydrazide under conditions of overcrowding or under normal conditions. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to observe the root tip of V. faba grown in conditions of normal growth or overcrowding. SEM micrographs revealed differences between the tips with regards to root hair density and root surface morphology. Finally, we found a positive correlation between the frequency of micronucleated cells and the length of the primary root, for every time of growth considered (1, 3, 4 and 5 days).
Evaluation of air pollution phytotoxicity downwind of a phosphate fertilizer factory in India.	The effects of air pollution on plants downwind of a fertilizer factory at Udaipur, India, were studied using three woody perennials. Seedlings of these species including a shrub (Carissa carandas L.), a leguminous avenue tree (Cassia fistula L.) and a fruit tree (Psidium guajava L.) were grown in earthen pots at different study sites receiving varying levels of air pollution input. Changes in plant growth, morphological characteristics, photosynthetic pigment, ascorbic acid, N and S contents and in dry matter allocation were considered in relation to the status of ambient air quality. Observations with these parameters have indicated that the ambient air around the factory contained pollutants at phytotoxic levels. Plant height, basal diameter, conopy area, leaf area and chlorophyll, ascorbic acid and foliar-N concentrations decreased with increasing pollution load. However, foliar-S increased slightly at polluted sites. Air pollution load around the factory have also altered the biomass allocation. Root:shoot ratios increased in C. fistula and P. guajava at polluted sites. In contrast, for C. carandas the above ground parts, where foliage assumed predominance showed precedence over the root growth. This species responded characteristically to air pollution stress by allocating more of its photosynthate towards leaf production and shoot growth.
Manganese toxicity thresholds for restoration grass species.	Manganese toxicity thresholds for restoration plants have not been established. As a result, ecological risk assessments rely on toxicity thresholds for agronomic species, which may differ from those of restoration species. Our objective was to provide Mn toxicity thresholds for grasses commonly used in restoration. We used a greenhouse screening study where seedlings of redtop, slender wheatgrass, tufted hairgrass, big bluegrass, basin wildrye, and common wheat were grown in sand culture and exposed to increasing concentrations of Mn. The LC50, EC50-plant, EC50-shoot, EC50-root, PT50-shoot, and the PT50-root were then determined. Phytotoxicity thresholds and effective concentrations for the restoration species were generally higher than values reported for agronomic species. Our estimates of PT50-shoot for the five restoration grasses range from 41,528 to 120,082 mg Mn kg(-1). Measures of EC50-plant for these restoration grasses ranged from 877 to >6,000 mg Mn l(-1). These thresholds might be more useful for risk assessors than those based on crop plants that are widely used.
Slow release chelate enhancement of lead phytoextraction by corn (Zea mays L.) from contaminated soil--a preliminary study.	Short-term enhancement of lead (Pb) and zinc (Zn) uptake by corn (Zea mays L.) seedlings from a contaminated soil was compared using slow-release coated EDTA granules-a coated chelating agent (CCA), uncoated EDTA granules, and EDTA solution in a greenhouse experiment. Soil Pb and Zn fractions were determined using a sequential extraction scheme. Release of the metals in the soil was examined in a column leaching study. After only 7 days of seedling growth, shoot biomass was decreased by all EDTA treatments compared with the zero-EDTA control. The amount of shoot biomass produced was highest with uncoated EDTA, intermediate with CCA, and lowest with the EDTA solution. Shoot Pb contents were highest with solid EDTA, intermediate with CCA, and lowest with EDTA solution, and they were always higher with EDTA treatments than in controls. In contrast, shoot Zn contents following EDTA treatments were lower than in the control. Levels of soil dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in aqueous soil extracts were much lower after CCA application than following treatments with solid EDTA and EDTA solution. After 17 days of plant growth, when most of the chelating agent had been released from the CCA, soil organic carbon levels remained relatively constant and similar to those in the control, indicating that a relatively low chelating agent concentration can be maintained for the plants to take up the metals. The distribution of Pb in the sequential extraction procedure showed that the Pb level in the exchangeable+carbonate-bound fraction with CCA was significantly lower than that with solid EDTA or EDTA solution, further indicating that slow release of CCA improves the bioavailability of metals in the soil to match plant uptake of those metals. The results suggest that CCA can enhance shoot content of Pb but not of Zn from the contaminated soil in the short term, and may also reduce the risk of metal leaching from the soil.
Growth response of Douglas-fir seedlings to nitrogen fertilization: importance of Rubisco activation state and respiration rates.	High foliar nitrogen concentration ([N]) is associated with high rates of photosynthesis and thus high tree productivity; however, at excessive [N], tree productivity is reduced. Reports of excessive [N] in the Douglas-fir forests of the Oregon Coast Range prompted this investigation of growth and needle physiological responses to increasing foliar N concentrations in 1-year-old Douglas-fir seedlings. After 1 year of N fertilization, total seedling biomass increased with each successive increase in N fertilizer concentration, except in the highest N fertilization treatment. Of the many physiological responses that were analyzed, only photosynthetic capacity (i.e., Vcmax), respiration rates and leaf specific conductance (KL) differed significantly between N treatments. Photosynthetic capacity showed a curvilinear relationship with foliar [N], reaching an apparent maximum rate when needle N concentrations exceeded about 12 mg g(-1). In vitro measurements of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco) activity suggested that photosynthetic capacity was best related to activated, not total, Rubisco content. Rubisco activation state declined as foliar [N] increased, and based on its significant correlation (r2= 0.63) with foliar Mn:Mg ratios, it may be related to Mn inactivation of Rubisco. Respiration rates increased linearly as foliar N concentration increased (r2= 0.84). The value of K(L) also increased as foliar [N] increased, reaching a maximum when foliar [N] exceeded about 10 mg g(-1). Changes in K(L) were unrelated to changes in leaf area or sapwood area because leaf area to sapwood area ratios remained constant. Cumulative effects of the observed physiological responses to N fertilization were analyzed by modeling annual net CO2 assimilation (Anet) based on treatment specific values of Vcmax, dark respiration (Rdark) and KL. Estimates of Anet were highly correlated with measured total seedling biomass (r2= 0.992), suggesting that long-term, cumulative effects of maximum Rubisco carboxylation, Rdark and KL responses to N fertilization may limit seedling production when foliar N exceeds about 13 mg g(-1) or is reduced to less than about 11 mg g(-1).
Influences of nano-TiO2 on the chloroplast aging of spinach under light.	The effects of nano-TiO2 (rutile) on the chloroplast aging of spinach under light were studied. The results showed that when the chloroplasts were illuminated for 1, 5, and 10 min with 500 micromol/cm2/min light intensity, respectively, the evolution oxygen rate was rapidly increased; when the chloroplasts were treated for 20, 30, and 40 min with 500 micromol/cm2/min light intensity, respectively, the evolution oxygen rate was gradually decreased. While spinach was treated with 0.25% nano-TiO2, the rate of evolution oxygen of chloroplasts in different illumination times (1, 5, 10, 20, 30, and 40 min) was higher than that of control, and when the illumination time was over 10 min, the reduction of the evolution oxygen rate was lower than that of control. It suggested that nano-TiO2 treatment could protect chloroplasts from aging for long-time illumination. The mechanism researches indicated that nano-TiO2 treatment could significantly increase the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and peroxidase (POD), decrease accumulation of reactive oxygen free radicals and the level of malondialdehyde (MDA), and maintain stability of membrane structure of chloroplast under light.
Red/far-red light modulates phospholipase D activity in oat seedlings: relation of enzyme photosensitivity to photosynthesis.	Phospholipase D (PLD) activity was found to be higher in etiolated oat seedlings than in green seedlings. White and red (R) light exposure inhibited PLD activity in etiolated seedlings. Far-red light eliminated R-light-induced decrease in PLD activity, indicating phytochrome participation in observed photomodulation. Inhibitor of electron transport in chloroplast 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea stimulated and glucose suppressed PLD activity in green and etiolated oat seedlings, respectively. These results suggest that PLD activity in oat seedling is regulated by light with involvement of phytochrome photoreceptor, and associated with photosynthesis process.
Differential expression of two fructokinases in Oryza sativa seedlings grown under aerobic and anaerobic conditions.	Fructokinases (EC 2.7.1.4) may play an important role in carbohydrate metabolism of Oryza sativa L. (rice) seedlings under anoxia. We present here the molecular and biochemical characterizations of two rice fructokinases, namely OsFK1 and OsFK2. The results show that, at both a transcriptional and a transductional level, OsFK1 is preferentially expressed under aerobic conditions, whereas OsFK2 is induced under anoxia. Substrate inhibition was demonstrated for OsFK1, while OsFK2 appears to be largely unaffected by fructose concentrations up to 10 mM. Sugar modulation of anoxia-induced proteins has been proposed, but our results on rice calli treated with or without glucose (10, 30 or 90 mM) for different time indicate that neither OsFK1 nor OsFK2 are sugar-regulated. We propose that OsFK2 plays a major role in fructose phosphorylation under anoxic conditions.
Induction of resistance against rice blast fungus in rice plants treated with a potent elicitor, N-acetylchitooligosaccharide.	The mode of action of a potent elicitor, N-acetylchitooligosaccharide, in rice plants was examined. In intact seedlings, no significant uptake of the elicitor via the roots was observed within 3 h, whereas rapid uptake was observed in excised leaves. Rapid and transient expression of an elicitor-responsive gene, EL2, was induced in the leaves of intact seedlings sprayed with the elicitor or in the roots and leaves of intact seedlings by immersing roots in the elicitor solution. Histochemical analysis indicated that EL2 was expressed in cells exposed to the elicitor of root and leaves. In seedlings treated with the elicitor for 1 d or longer, hyphal growth of rice blast fungus was significantly delayed, and an accumulation of auto-fluorescence around the infection site was observed. Two defense-related genes, PR-1 and PR-10 (PBZ1), were induced in a systemic and local manner by elicitor treatment, in correlation with the induction of resistance against rice blast fungus. N-Acetylchitoheptaose did not inhibit the hyphal growth of the fungi. These results indicate the occurrence of systemic signal transmission from N-acetylchitooligosaccharide in rice plants.
Germination responses to GA3 and stratification of threatened Festuca L. species from Eastern Mediterranean.	The seed germination characteristics of three threatened Festuca sp. [F. punctoria Sm., F. cyllenica Boiss. et Heldr. subsp. uluana Markgr.-Dannenb., F. paphlagonica (St.-Yves) Markgr.-Dannenb. subsp. paphlagonica] were investigated. These species are endemic and spread on alpine belt. The study was carried out with wet-cold and dry-cold stratification throughout 15 days, different doses of GA3 (50, 100 and 150 ppm) and hormone-stratification combined treatments, and non-treatment series. We found that the germination rates of three fescue seeds for various treatment series were different. The mean germination percentage of F. cyllenica was higher (80%) than that of F. punctoria and F. paphlagonica which were fairly low (50-60%). Germination rates increased by wet-stratification treatment in F. punctoria and also increased with 100 ppm GA3 application to the seeds of F. paphlagonica. When taken into consideration the germination percentages of all fescue species, the seeds of F. punctoria and F. paphlagonica can be dormant, but the seeds of F. cyllenica are non-dormant.
Sensitivity of Mediterranean woody seedlings to copper, nickel and zinc.	The restoration of heavy metal contaminated areas requires information on the response of native plant species to these contaminants. The sensitivity of most Mediterranean woody species to heavy metals has not been established, and little is known about phytotoxic thresholds and environmental risks. We have evaluated the response of four plant species commonly used in ecological restoration, Pinus halepensis, Pistacia lentiscus, Juniperus oxycedrus, and Rhamnus alaternus, grown in nutrient solutions containing a range of copper, nickel and zinc concentrations. Seedlings of these species were exposed to 0.048, 1 and 4 microM of Cu; 0, 25 and 50 microM of Ni; and 0.073, 25 and 100 microM of Zn in a hydroponic silica sand culture for 12 weeks. For all four species, the heavy metal concentration increased in plants as the solution concentration increased and was always higher in roots than in shoots. Pinus halepensis and P. lentiscus showed a higher capacity to accumulate metals in roots than J. oxycedrus and R. alaternus, while the allocation to shoots was considerably higher in the latter two. Intermediate heavy-metal doses enhanced biomass accumulation, whereas the highest doses resulted in reductions in biomass. Decreases in shoot biomass occurred at internal concentrations ranging from 25 to 128 microg g-1 of Zn, and 1.7 to 4.1 microg g( -1) of Cu. Nickel phytoxicity could not be established within the range of doses used. Rhamnus alaternus and J. oxycedrus showed higher sensitivity to Cu and Zn than P. halepensis and, especially, P. lentiscus. Contrasted responses to heavy metals must be taken into account when using Mediterranean woody species for the restoration of heavy metal contaminated sites.
Effect of vitamin C and folic acid on seed vigour response and phenolic-linked antioxidant activity.	Folic acid and vitamin C were used in the concentration range of 0-500muM as exogenous growth enhancers to stimulate pea (Pisum sativum) seedling vigour. The results suggest that a concentration of 50muM folic acid and 500muM vitamin C were optimum in maximally enhancing seed vigour and potentially seedling performance according to both agronomic and biochemical seed vigour parameters. Results indicated that germination percentage, shoot weight, shoot height, and root length were enhanced in folic acid and vitamin C treated plants compared to control plants. The levels of enhanced phenolic content in response to folic acid and vitamin C treatments were highest on days 8 and 10. Evaluation of critical biochemical parameters indicated that the average glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) activity and proline content in response to treatments were higher than control and correlated to enhanced phenolic content and DPPH-based antioxidant activity. Key enzymes, guaiacol peroxidase (GPX), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and catalase (CAT) were also higher in response to treatments and correlated to enhanced phenolic content and DPPH-based antioxidant activity. Taken together, these studies support the hypothesis that the proline-linked pentose phosphate pathway stimulates phenolic synthesis and related free-radical scavenging antioxidant activity. Further, this proline-linked pentose phosphate pathway stimulation in response to folic acid and vitamin C was also correlated to antioxidant enzyme response indicated by the stimulation of GPX, SOD, and CAT activities. Therefore, this study indicates the enhancement of seed vigour response by folic acid and vitamin C as reflected in both agronomic and biochemical responses, and this occurred through the stimulation of phenolic-linked antioxidant response that is likely positively modulated through the proline-linked pentose phosphate pathway.
Effects of carbon dioxide concentration and nutrition on photosynthetic functions of white birch seedlings.	To investigate the interactive effects of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration ([CO(2)]) and nutrition on photosynthesis and its acclimation to elevated [CO(2)], a two-way factorial experiment was carried out with two nutritional regimes (high- and low-nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K)) and two CO(2) concentrations (360 and 720 ppm) with white birch seedlings (Betula papyrifera Marsh.) grown for four months in environment-controlled greenhouses. Elevated [CO(2)] enhanced maximal carboxylation rate (V(cmax)), photosynthetically active radiation-saturated electron transport rate (J(max)), actual photochemical efficiency of photosystem II (PSII) in the light (DeltaF/F(m)') and photosynthetic linear electron transport to carboxylation (J(c)) after 2.5 months of treatment, and it increased net photosynthetic rate (A(n)), photosynthetic water-use efficiency (WUE), photosynthetic nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE) and photosynthetic phosphorus-use efficiency (PUE) after 2.5 and 3.5 months of treatment, but it reduced stomatal conductance (g(s)), transpiration rate (E) and the fraction of total photosynthetic linear electron transport partitioned to oxygenation (J(o)/J(T)) after 2.5 and 3.5 months of treatment. Low nutrient availability decreased A(n), WUE, V(cmax), J(max), triose phosphate utilization (TPU), (/F(m)' - F)//F(m)' and J(c), but increased J(o)/J(T) and NUE. Generally, V(cmax) was more sensitive to nutrient availability than J(max). There were significant interactive effects of [CO(2)] and nutrition over time, e.g., the positive effects of high nutrition on A(n), V(cmax), J(max), DeltaF/F(m)' and J(c) were significantly greater in elevated [CO(2)] than in ambient [CO(2)]. In contrast, the interactive effect of [CO(2)] and nutrition on NUE was significant after 2.5 months of treatment, but not after 3.5 months. High nutrient availability generally increased PUE after 3.5 months of treatment. There was evidence for photosynthetic up-regulation in response to elevated [CO(2)], particularly in seedlings receiving high nutrition. Photosynthetic depression in response to low nutrient availability was attributed to biochemical limitation (or increased mesophyll resistance) rather than stomatal limitation. Elevated [CO(2)] reduced leaf N concentration, particularly in seedlings receiving low nutrition, but had no significant effect on leaf P or K concentration. High nutrient availability generally increased area-based leaf N, P and K concentrations, but had negligible effects on K after 2.5 months of treatment.
Effect of application of silicon on arsenic uptake by rice seedlings in soil]	The objective of study was to investigate effect of silicon on arsenic uptake by rice seedlings in two soils with different arsenic concentrations. The results show that the addition of silicon has little effect on shoot and root dry weights of rice seedlings. The addition of silicon did not affect shoot and root P concentrations of rice seedlings grown in low arsenic soil, but significantly increased shoot P concentrations on rice grown in high arsenic soil. Irrespective of the initial pH of K2SiO3 solution, the addition of silicon significantly decreased shoot and root As concentrations of rice seedlings compared with the control. For seedlings grown in low As-contaminated soil, As concentrations in shoot and root were reduced by 36%-59% and 15%-37% with the application of silicon, respectively. For seedlings grown in high As-contaminated soil, As concentrations in shoot and root were reduced by 42%-58% and 70%-82% with the application of silicon, respectively. These results are in agreement with our previous reports based on a solution culture experiment. Possible mechanisms of the effect of Si on As uptake was also discussed.
Effects of Cd2+ on seedling growth and phytohormone contents of Glycine max]	A laboratory incubation experiment was conducted to study the effects of different Cd2+ concentrations on seedling growth and phytohormone contents of Glycine max through determining some physiological and biochemical indexes. The results showed as follows: (1) Different Cd2+ concentrations inhibited the synthesis of indoleacetic acid (IAA) and gibberellins (GA3) in roots and stimulated the synthesis of zeatin (Z) and abscisic acid (ABA) not only in roots but also in aerial parts of Glycine Max. Cd2+ stimulated the synthesis of IAA and GA3 in aerial parts at lower concentrations, but inhibited the synthesis of IAA and GA3 at higher concentrations. (2) Cd2+ stress for 84h increased the root vitality and the contents of chlorophyll a and b, but no significant difference was found in carotinoid contents compared with the control. (3) Cd2+ stress decreased POD activities and MAD contents atlower concentrations and increased POD activities and MAD contents at higher concentrations. With increasing Cd2+ concentrations, this increase became significant gradually. (4) Cd2+ stress with lower concentrations stimulated the physiological activity of Glycine max seedling in a short time. When Cd2+ concentration was 0.50 mg/L, the root vitality, IAA and GA3 contents of Glycine max were the highest, and POD activity was the lowest.
Effects of abscisic acid on photosynthetic characteristics and antioxidant enzyme activities of wheat seedlings]	This paper studied the effects of short- and long term abscisic acid (ABA) treatments on the CO2 assimilation (Pn), carboxylation efficiency (CE), response of Pn to CO2, and antioxidant enzyme activities of wheat seedlings exposed to UV-C. The results showed that under no UV-C, short- and long term ABA treatments increased Pn by 14.69% and 20.46%, and decreased stomatal conductance (Gs) by 14.74% and 17.31%, respectively, compared to the control, while no effects were observed on intercellular CO2 concentration (Ci) and CE. Under UV-C, the Pn, CE, Gs and Ci decreased, with the least decrease in long term ABA treatment, less in short term ABA treatment, and the most in control. ABA could increase the response of Pn to CO2, while UV-C inhibited it. In ABA treatments, antioxidant enzyme activities were enhanced, while MDA content was decreased. Under UV-C, CAT activity increased first, reached its maximum after 1 h, and decreased then. The activities of SOD and POD in ABA treatments increased first and decreased then, with the greater increase in long term ABA treatment than in short term ABA treatment, while those in the control decreased. It was suggested that through enhancing Pn and antioxidant enzyme activities, ABA could enhance the resistance of wheat to UV-C, and long term ABA treatment had better effects than short term ABA treatment.
Brassinosteroid confers tolerance in Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica napus to a range of abiotic stresses.	In addition to an essential role in plant development, brassinosteroids (BRs) appear to have the ability to protect plants against various environmental stresses. However, studies confirming the ability of BRs to modulate plant responses to different environmental stresses are lacking. Earlier we had demonstrated that treatment with 24-epibrassinolide (EBR), a BR, increases the basic thermotolerance of Brassica napus and tomato seedlings [Plant Mol Biol 40:333-342, 1999]. Here we demonstrate that EBR treatment enhances seedling tolerance to drought and cold stresses in both Arabidopsis thaliana and B. napus, and helps to overcome a salt-stress-induced inhibition of seed germination. The ability of EBR to confer tolerance in plants to a variety of stresses was confirmed through analysis of expression of a subset of drought and cold stress marker genes. Transcriptional changes in these genes were more apparent in EBR-treated A. thaliana, in particular during earlier time points of stress. To see if BR is essential for the heat stress (HS) response, we made use of BR-deficient mutants. Both det2-1 and dwf4 mutants still expressed heat shock proteins (hsps) to high levels during HS, indicating that although BR augments thermotolerance in plants, it is not necessary for hsp expression during HS.
Salinity and light interactively affect neotropical mangrove seedlings at the leaf and whole plant levels.	We have studied the interactive effects of salinity and light on Avicennia germinans mangrove seedlings in greenhouse and field experiments. We hypothesized that net photosynthesis, growth, and survivorship rates should increase more with an increase in light availability for plants growing at low salinity than for those growing at high salinity. This hypothesis was supported by our results for net photosynthesis and growth. Net daily photosynthesis did increase more with increasing light for low-salinity plants than for high-salinity plants. Stomatal conductance, leaf-level transpiration, and internal CO(2) concentrations were lower at high than at low salinity. At high light, the ratio of leaf respiration to assimilation was 2.5 times greater at high than at low salinity. Stomatal limitations and increased respiratory costs may explain why, at high salinity, seedlings did not respond to increased light availability with increased net photosynthesis. Seedling mass and growth rates increased more with increasing light availability at low than at high salinity. Ratios of root mass to leaf mass were higher at high salinity, suggesting that either water or nutrient limitations may have limited seedling growth at high salinity in response to increasing light. The interactive effects of salinity and light on seedling size and growth rates observed in the greenhouse were robust in the field, despite the presence of other factors in the field--such as inundation, nutrient gradients, and herbivory. In the field, seedling survivorship was higher at low than at high salinity and increased with light availability. Interestingly, the positive effect of light on seedling survivorship was stronger at high salinity, indicating that growth and survivorship rates are decoupled. In general, this study demonstrates that environmental effects at the leaf-level also influence whole plant growth in mangroves.
High frequency early in vitro flowering of Dendrobium Madame Thong-In (Orchidaceae).	We have successfully developed a method to induce early in vitro flowering of the self-pollinated seedlings of a tropical orchid hybrid, Dendrobium Madame Thong-In. Transition of vegetative shoot apical meristem to inflorescence meristem was observed when young protocorms were cultured in modified KC liquid medium. In contrast, protocorms cultured on Gelrite-solidified medium only produced axillary shoots and roots. CW was required to trigger the transitional shoot apical meristem and BA enhanced inflorescence stalk initiation and flower bud formation. However, normal flower development was deformed in liquid medium but developed fully upon transferring to two-layered (liquid over Gelrite-solidified) medium. Under optimal condition, in vitro flowering was observed about 5 months after seed sowing. Segregation of flower colours was observed in these seedlings and seedpods formed upon artificial pollination of the in vitro flowers.
Transgenic rice plants expressing trichothecene 3-O-acetyltransferase show resistance to the Fusarium phytotoxin deoxynivalenol.	Fusarium head blight (FHB) is a devastating disease of small grain cereal crops caused by the necrotrophic pathogen Fusarium graminearum and Fusarium culmorum. These fungi produce the trichothecene mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (DON) and its derivatives, which enhance the disease development during their interactions with host plants. For the self-protection, the trichothecene producer Fusarium species have Tri101 encoding trichothecene 3-O-acetyltransferase. Although transgenic expression of Tri101 significantly reduced inhibitory action of DON on tobacco plants, there are several conflicting observations regarding the phytotoxicity of 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol (3-ADON) to cereal plants; 3-ADON was reported to be highly phytotoxic to wheat at low concentrations. To examine whether cereal plants show sufficient resistance to 3-ADON, we generated transgenic rice plants with stable expression and inheritance of Tri101. While root growth of wild-type rice plants was severely inhibited by DON in the medium, this fungal toxin was not phytotoxic to the transgenic lines that showed trichothecene 3-O-acetylation activity. This is the first report demonstrating the DON acetylase activity and DON-resistant phenotype of cereal plants expressing the fungal gene.
Cadmium-induced alterations of the structural features of pectins in flax hypocotyl.	In the course of our studies on the putative role of pectins in the control of cell growth, we have investigated the effect of cadmium on their composition, remodelling and distribution within the epidermis and fibre tissues of flax hypocotyl (Linum usitatissimum L.). Cadmium-stressed seedlings showed a significant inhibition of growth whereas the hypocotyl volume did not significantly change, due to the swelling of most tissues. The structural alterations consisted of significant increase of the thickness of all cell walls and the marked collapse of the sub-epidermal layer. The pectic epitopes recognized by the anti-PGA/RGI and JIM5 antibodies increased in the outer parts of the epidermis (external tangential wall and junctions) and fibres (primary wall and junctions). Concomitantly, there was a remarkable decrease of JIM7 antibody labelling and consequently an increase of the ratio JIM5/JIM7. Conversely, the ratio JIM7/JIM5 increased in the wall domains closest to the plasmalemma, which would expel the cadmium ions from the cytoplasm. The hydrolysis of cell walls revealed a cadmium-induced increase of uronic acid in the pectic matrix. Sequential extractions showed a remodelling of both homogalacturonan and rhamnogalacturonan I. In fractions enriched in primary walls, the main part of the pectins became cross-linked and could be extracted only with alkali. In fractions enriched in secondary walls, the homogalacturonan moieties were found more abundantly in the calcium-chelator extract while the rhamnogacturonan level increased in the boiling water extract.
Development of genotype-independent regeneration system for transformation of rice (Oryza sativa ssp. indica).	Rice (Oryza sativa ssp. indica) is an important economic crop in many countries. Although a variety of conventional methods have been developed to improve this plant, manipulation by genetic engineering is still complicated. We have established a system of multiple shoot regeneration from rice shoot apical meristem. By use of MS medium containing 4 mg L(-1) thidiazuron (TDZ) multiple shoots were successfully developed directly from the meristem without an intervening callus stage. All rice cultivars tested responded well on the medium and regenerated to plantlets that were readily transferred to soil within 5-8 weeks. The tissue culture system was suitable for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and different factors affecting transformation efficiency were investigated. Agrobacterium strain EHA105 containing the plasmid pCAMBIA1301 was used. The lowest concentration of hygromycin B in combined with either 250 mg L(-1) carbenicillin or 250 mg L(-1) cefotaxime to kill the rice shoot apical meristem was 50 mg L(-1) and carbenicillin was more effective than cefotaxime. Two-hundred micromolar acetosyringone had no effect on the efficiency of transient expression. Sonication of rice shoot apical meristem for 10 s during bacterial immersion increased transient GUS expression in three-day co-cultivated seedlings. The gus gene was found to be integrated into the genome of the T(0) transformant plantlets.
Accumulation, speciation and cellular localization of copper in Sesbania drummondii.	Growth, accumulation and intracellular speciation and distribution of copper (Cu) in Sesbania drummondii was studied using scanning-electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS). The growth of seedlings was assessed in terms of biomass accumulation. The growth of the seedling was enhanced by 73.5% at a low Cu concentration (50 mg l-1) compared to the control treatment. Additionally, seedling growth was inhibited by 18% at 300 mg l-1 Cu with respect to the control. Copper concentration in roots and shoots was increased with increasing Cu concentration in the growth solution. The accumulation of Cu was found to be higher in roots than in the shoots. At a concentration of 300 mg l-1 Cu, the roots accumulated 27,440 mg Cu kg-1 dry weight (dw) while shoots accumulated 1282 mg Cu kg-1 dw. Seedlings were assessed for photosynthetic activity by measuring chlorophyll a fluorescence parameters: Fv/Fm and Fv/F0 values. Photosynthetic integrity was not affected by any of the Cu treatments. The X-ray absorption spectroscopic (XAS) studies showed that Cu was predominantly present as Cu(II) in Sesbania tissue. In addition, from the XAS studies it was shown that the Cu exists in a mixture of different coordination states consisting of Cu bound to sugars and small organic acids with some possible precipitated copper oxide. From the EXAFS studies, the coordination of Cu was determined to have four equatorial oxygen(nitrogen) ligands at 1.96 A and two axial oxygen ligands at 2.31 A. Scanning-electron microscopy studies revealed the distribution of Cu within the seedlings tissues, predominantly accumulated in the cortical and vascular (xylem) regions of root tissues. In the stem, most of the Cu was found within the xylem tissue. However, the deposition of Cu within the leaf tissues was in the parenchyma. The present study demonstrates the mechanisms employed by S. drummondii for Cu uptake and its biotransformation.
Enhanced tolerance to oxidative stress in transgenic tobacco plants expressing three antioxidant enzymes in chloroplasts.	The effect of simultaneous expression of genes encoding three antioxidant enzymes, copper zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD, EC 1.15.1.1), ascorbate peroxidase (APX, EC 1.11.1.11), and dehydroascorbate (DHA) reductase (DHAR, EC 1.8.5.1), in the chloroplasts of tobacco plants was investigated under oxidative stress conditions. In previous studies, transgenic tobacco plants expressing both CuZnSOD and APX in chloroplast (CA plants), or DHAR in chloroplast showed enhanced tolerance to oxidative stresses, such as paraquat and salt. In this study, in order to develop transgenic plants that were more resistant to oxidative stress, we introduced the gene encoding DHAR into CA transgenic plants. Mature leaves of transgenic plants expressing all three antioxidant genes (CAD plants) had approximately 1.6-2.1 times higher DHAR activity, and higher ratios of reduced ascorbate (AsA) to DHA, and oxidized glutathione (GSSG) to reduced glutathione (GSH) compared to CA plants. CAD plants were more resistant to paraquat-induced stress, exhibiting only 18.1% reduction in membrane damage relative to CA plants. In addition, seedlings of CAD plants had enhanced tolerance to NaCI (100 mM) compared to CA plants. These results indicate that the simultaneous expression of multiple antioxidant enzymes, such as CuZnSOD, APX, and DHAR, in chloroplasts is more effective than single or double expression for developing transgenic plants with enhanced tolerance to multiple environmental stresses.
Elicitor and resistance-inducing activities of beta-1,4 cellodextrins in grapevine, comparison with beta-1,3 glucans and alpha-1,4 oligogalacturonides.	Cellodextrins (CD), water-soluble derivatives of cellulose composed of beta-1,4 glucoside residues, have been shown to induce a variety of defence responses in grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.) cells. The larger oligomers of CD rapidly induced transient generation of H2O2 and elevation in free cytosolic calcium, followed by a differential expression of genes encoding key enzymes of the phenylpropanoid pathway and pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins as well as stimulation of chitinase and beta-1,3 glucanase activities. Most of these defence reactions were also induced by linear beta-1,3 glucans (betaGlu) and alpha-1,4 oligogalacturonides (OGA) of different degree of polymerization (DP), but the intensity of some reactions induced by CD was different when compared with betaGlu and OGA effects. Moreover, desensitization assays using H2O2 production showed that cells treated with CD remained fully responsive to a second application of OGA, suggesting a different mode of perception of these oligosaccharides by grape cells. None of CD, betaGlu, or OGA induced HSR gene expression nor did they induce cell death. In accordance with elicitor activity in grapevine cells, CD-incubated leaves challenged with Botrytis cinerea also resulted in a significant reduction of the disease. Data suggest that CD could operate via other distinct reaction pathways than betaGlu and OGA. They also highlight the requirement of a specific DP for each oligosaccharide to induce the defence response.
Gas exchange and antioxidative compounds in young beech trees under free-air ozone exposure and comparisons to adult trees.	Three-year-old beech (Fagus sylvatica) seedlings growing in containers were placed into the sun and shade crown of a mature beech stand exposed to ambient (1 x O(3)) and double ambient (2 x O(3)) ozone concentrations at a free-air exposure system ("Kranzberg Forst", Germany). Pigments, alpha-tocopherol, glutathione, ascorbate, and gas exchange were measured in leaves during 2003 (a drought year) and 2004 (an average year). Sun-exposed seedlings showed higher contents of antioxidants, xanthophylls, and beta-carotene and lower contents of chlorophyll, alpha-carotene, and neoxanthin than shade-exposed seedlings. In 2003 sun-exposed seedlings showed higher contents of carotenoids and total glutathione and lower net photosynthesis rates (A(max)) compared to 2004. O(3) exposure generally affected the content of chlorophyll, the xanthophyll cycle, and the intercellular CO(2) concentration (c(i)). Seedlings differed from the adjacent adult trees in most biochemical and physiological parameters investigated: Sun exposed seedlings showed higher contents of alpha-tocopherol and xanthophylls and lower contents of ascorbate, chlorophyll, neoxanthin, and alpha-carotene compared to adult trees. Shade exposed seedlings had lower contents of xanthophylls, alpha-carotene, and alpha-tocopherol than shade leaves of old-growth trees. In 2003, seedlings had higher A(max), stomatal conductance (g(s)), and c(i) under 2 x O(3) than adult trees. The results showed that shade acclimated beech seedlings are more sensitive to O(3), possibly due to a lower antioxidative capacity per O(3) uptake. We conclude that beech seedlings are uncertain surrogates for adult beech trees.
Partitioning and removal of Cd and Mn using a simulated mangrove wastewater treatment system.	A greenhouse experiment was conducted to study the partitioning and removal of Cd and Mn from wastewater using constructed mangrove (Kandelia candel) wetland treatment system. Three different strengths of artificial wastewater passed through the system in fixed quantities. Artificial seawater was used as a control. Three different compositions were natural wastewater concentration (C1), medium wastewater concentration (C5) and concentrated wastewater concentrations (C10). C1 had the characteristics and strength similar to natural municipal wastewater while C5 and C10 contained five and ten times of the nutrients and heavy metals in C1, respectively. Results showed that the major portion of the Cd and Mn entering the simulated wastewater treatment system entered the sediment pool where approximately 88% to 95% of the Cd, and between 63% and 89% of Mn, was retained. The amount of added Cd and Mn in the wastewater found in plants were between 0.16% to 1.1%, and 1.7% to 13.9%, respectively. Within the total plant pool, roots accounted for between 30% and 39% of Cd, and from 0.65% to 7.3% of Mn; leaves contained between 19.9% to 30.5% of Cd, and from 7.8% to 41.0% of Mn; litterfall contained 12.3% to 20.6% of Cd, and from 15.2% to 70.3% of Mn, respectively. The averaged accumulative coefficients concentration in plant tissues/concentration in sediment in plant for Cd and Mn were 1.22 to 2.40 and 0.02 to 0.08, respectively. Assimilated Cd and Mn were stored in non-activity plant zones such as cell wall, supplimentary cells of the lenticel, stone cells, cell gaps in root and stem, etc. Kandelia candel seedlings had a relative high toxicity resistance to the two heavy metals.
Oxylipins produced by the 9-lipoxygenase pathway in Arabidopsis regulate lateral root development and defense responses through a specific signaling cascade.	Arabidopsis thaliana seedling growth with pure oxylipins resulted in root waving, loss of root apical dominance, and decreased root elongation. 9-Hydroxyoctadecatrienoic acid (9-HOT) was a potent inducer of root waving. Studies with noxy2 (for nonresponding to oxylipins2), a new 9-HOT-insensitive mutant, and coronatine insensitive1-1 (jasmonate-insensitive) revealed at least three signaling cascades mediating the oxylipin actions. Treatment with 9-HOT resulted in a reduction in lateral roots and an increase in stage V primordia. Roots showed strong 9-lipoxygenase (9-LOX) activity, and root primordia expressed 9-LOX genes. These results, along with findings that noxy2 and mutants with defective 9-LOX activity showed increased numbers of lateral roots, suggest that 9-HOT, or a closely related 9-LOX product, is an endogenous modulator of lateral root formation. Histochemical and molecular analyses revealed that 9-HOT activated events common to development and defense responses. A subset of 9-HOT-responding root genes was also induced in leaves after 9-HOT treatment or pathogen inoculation. The results that noxy2 displayed altered root development, enhanced susceptibility to Pseudomonas, and reduced the activation of 9-HOT-responding genes are consistent with mechanistic links among these processes. The nature of the changes detected suggests that oxylipins from the 9-LOX pathway function in cell wall modifications required for lateral root development and pathogen arrest.
Over-expression of a truncated Arabidopsis thaliana heterotrimeric G protein gamma subunit results in a phenotype similar to alpha and beta subunit knockouts.	Heterotrimeric G proteins (G-proteins) are a diverse class of signal transducing proteins which have been implicated in a variety of important roles in plants. When G-proteins are activated, they dissociate into two functional subunits (alpha and the betagamma dimer) that effectively relay the signal to a multitude of effectors. In animal systems, the betagamma dimer is anchored to the plasma membrane by a prenyl group present in the gamma subunit and membrane localization has proven vital for heterotrimer function. A semi-dominant negative strategy was designed aiming to disrupt heterotrimer function in Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) plants by over-expressing a truncated gamma subunit lacking the isoprenylation motif (gamma()). Northern analysis shows that the levels of expression of the mutant gamma subunit in several transgenic lines (35S-gamma()) are orders of magnitude higher than that of the native subunits. In-depth characterization of the 35S-gamma() lines has been carried out, specifically focusing on a number of developmental characteristics and responses to several stimuli previously shown to be affected in alpha- and beta-deficient mutants. In all cases, the transgenic lines expressing the mutant gamma subunit behave in the same way as the alpha- and/or the beta-deficient mutants, albeit with reduced severity of the phenotype. Our data indicates that signaling from both functional subunits, alpha and the beta/gamma dimer, is disrupted in the transgenic plants. Even though physical association of the subunits has been previously reported, our research provides evidence of the functional association of alpha and beta with the gamma subunits in Arabidopsis, while also suggesting that plasma membrane localization may be critical for function of plant heterotrimeric G proteins.
Determination of plant resistance to carbamate herbicidal compounds inhibiting cell division and early growth by seed and plantlets bioassays.	Herbicide-resistant plants can be generated by either traditional breeding procedures or genetic engineering. Analyses of plant responses to a newly developed herbicide or the tolerance level of a newly developed plant line to a given herbicide are based on various bioassays. Here, we describe several methods for quantitative measurements of plants' responses to propham application, as a model herbicide of the carbamate family. Dose-response assays include seed germination and analyses of shoot and root elongation on paper. To better reflect the natural interaction between the plant, the soil and the herbicide, a protocol for germination and root elongation on sand is described. Finally, a more sensitive bioassay is based on plant growth on agar medium. The described protocols are simple, reproducible and can be easily adopted for a variety of plant species and for various herbicides. Plants' response to a given herbicide can be determined within a few weeks.
AAP1 transports uncharged amino acids into roots of Arabidopsis.	Amino acids are available to plants in some soils in significant amounts, and plants frequently make use of these nitrogen sources. The goal of this study was to identify transporters involved in the uptake of amino acids into root cells. Based on the fact that high concentrations of amino acids inhibit plant growth, we hypothesized that mutants tolerating toxic levels of amino acids might be deficient in the uptake of amino acids from the environment. To test this hypothesis, we employed a forward genetic screen for Arabidopsis thaliana mutants tolerating toxic concentrations of amino acids in the media. We identified an Arabidopsis mutant that is deficient in the amino acid permease 1 (AAP1, At1g58360) and resistant to 10 mm phenylalanine and a range of other amino acids. The transporter was localized to the plasma membrane of root epidermal cells, root hairs, and throughout the root tip of Arabidopsis. Feeding experiments with [(14)C]-labeled neutral, acidic and basic amino acids showed significantly reduced uptake of amino acids in the mutant, underscoring that increased tolerance of aap1 to high levels of amino acids is coupled with reduced uptake by the root. The growth and uptake studies identified glutamate, histidine and neutral amino acids, including phenylalanine, as physiological substrates for AAP1, whereas aspartate, lysine and arginine are not. We also demonstrate that AAP1 imports amino acids into root cells when these are supplied at ecologically relevant concentrations. Together, our data indicate an important role of AAP1 for efficient use of nitrogen sources present in the rhizosphere.
Structural and functional organization of mitochondria in soybean root statocytes under microgravitation]	The effects of microgravity and ethylene on morphology and ultrastructural organization of mitochondria in root statocytes of soybean seedlings grown for 6 days on the board of the space shuttle Columbia during the STS-87 mission were investigated. The spaceflight seedlings and the ground-grown control seedlings were grown in BRIG (Biological Research in Canister) in the presence of KMnO4 to remove ethylene. It was revealed that irrespectively of KMnO4 treatment the mitochondria in the spaceflight seedlings were characterized by round or oviform and by low electron density of organelle matrix, whereas the organelles in the ground controls were polymorphic in shape and had higher electron density of matrix. The possible mechanisms of morphological and ultrastructural rearrangements of mitochondria that may be involved in adaptation processes of soybean seedlings to microgravity conditions are discussed.
A highly efficient system for induction of female flowers in derooted seedlings of Cucumis sativus L. grown on the medium]	This paper reported the synergistic effect of KT and IAA, and the effects of age of seedlings, length of hypocotyls, nitrogen contents and NH(+)(4)-N/TN ratio on the induction of female flowers in derooted seedlings of Cucumis sativus L. for the establishment of an efficient system for the induction of female flowers. When cultured on MS basal medium supplemented with KT 3.0 mg/L and IAA 0.01 mg/L, an induction rate of 28% was obtained for the 7-day-old derooted seedlings with 1/2 hypocotyl, 12% and 26% higher than when cultured with KT 3.0 mg/L alone and IAA 0.01 mg/L alone, respectively, while no female flowers was formed on the control medium, which indicates that KT and IAA have an evident synergistic effect on the induction of female flowers. Experiment was done with N concentration of 60-90 mmol/L or with NH(+)(4)-N/TN ratio of 12.5%-50% (total N kept at 80 mmol/L), with lengths of hypocotyls of 0-4/4, and with different ages of seedlings of 5-8-day-old, the highest induction rate of 40%, 48% and 57% for female flowers was achieved on medium of N 80 mmol/L (NH(+)(4)-N/TN 37.5%), from seedlings with 1/4 hypocotyl and from the treatment using 6-day-old seedlings respectively.
Positive role of a wheat HvABI5 ortholog in abiotic stress response of seedlings.	ABA-responsive element binding protein (AREB) and ABA-responsive element binding factor (ABF), members of the basic region/leucine zipper (bZIP)-type protein family, act as major transcription factors in ABA-responsive gene expression under abiotic stress conditions in Arabidopsis. Barley HvABI5 and rice transcription factor responsible for ABA regulation 1 (TRAB1) are homologues of AREB/ABF and are expressed in drought- and ABA-treated seedlings. However, no direct evidence has shown an association of an AREB/ABF-type transcription factor with stress tolerance in cereals. To understand the molecular basis of abiotic stress tolerance through a cereal AREB/ABF-type transcription factor, a wheat HvABI5 ortholog, Wabi5, was isolated and characterized. Wabi5 expression was activated by low temperature, drought and exogenous ABA treatment, and its expression pattern differed between two wheat accessions with distinct levels of stress tolerance and ABA sensitivity. Wabi5-expressing transgenic tobacco plants showed a significant increase in tolerance to abiotic stresses such as freezing, osmotic and salt stresses and a hypersensitivity to exogenous ABA in the seedling stage compared with wild-type plants. Expression of a GUS reporter gene under the control of promoters of three wheat cold-responsive/late embryogenesis abundant (Cor/Lea) genes, Wdhn13, Wrab18 and Wrab19, was enhanced by ectopic Wabi5 expression in wheat callus and tobacco plants. These results clearly indicated that WABI5 functions as a transcriptional regulator of the Cor/Lea genes in multiple abiotic stress responses in common wheat.
Seed germination and seedling growth of the Mexican sunflower Tithonia diversifolia (Compositae) in Nigeria, Africa.	We studied seed germination and seedling growth of the Mexican sunflower Tithonia diversifolia in Nigeria. This involved the usage of some dormancy-releasing methods and the effect of some concentrations of three herbicide formulations on the young seedlings. Initial germination tests on fresh and stored seeds revealed a low percentage germination of less than 30%. The seeds of the weed exhibit dormancy. Subjecting the seeds to wet heat at 80 and 100 degrees C and light treatment terminated dormancy both in the fresh and stored seeds. Light greatly enhanced the germination percentage of seeds by about 70%. There was gradual increase in germination percentage with increase in storage period in dormancy-released seeds. The mean LAR (Leaf Area Ratio), NAR (Net Assimilation Rate) and RGR (Relative Growth Rate) are comparatively high in young seedlings. Concentrations of 0.5-2.0% of Gramoxone, Primextra and Galex are toxic to 1 month old seedlings. For eradication, the seedlings should be attacked at one month stage.
cDNA-AFLP analysis reveals differential gene expression in response to salt stress in foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.).	Plant growth and productivity are affected by various abiotic stresses such as heat, drought, cold, salinity, etc. The mechanism of salt tolerance is one of the most important subjects in plant science as salt stress decreases worldwide agricultural production. In our present study we used cDNA-AFLP technique to compare gene expression profiles of a salt tolerant and a salt-sensitive cultivar of foxtail millet (Seteria italica) in response to salt stress to identify early responsive differentially expressed transcripts accumulated upon salt stress and validate the obtained result through quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). The expression profile was compared between a salt tolerant (Prasad) and susceptible variety (Lepakshi) of foxtail millet in both control condition (L0 and P0) and after 1 h (L1 and P1) of salt stress. We identified 90 transcript-derived fragments (TDFs) that are differentially expressed, out of which 86 TDFs were classified on the basis of their either complete presence or absence (qualitative variants) and 4 on differential expression pattern levels (quantitative variants) in the two varieties. Finally, we identified 27 non-redundant differentially expressed cDNAs that are unique to salt tolerant variety which represent different groups of genes involved in metabolism, cellular transport, cell signaling, transcriptional regulation, mRNA splicing, seed development and storage, etc. The expression patterns of seven out of nine such genes showed a significant increase of differential expression in tolerant variety after 1 h of salt stress in comparison to salt-sensitive variety as analyzed by qRT-PCR. The direct and indirect relationship of identified TDFs with salinity tolerance mechanism is discussed.
Effects of uranium and phosphate concentrations on oxidative stress related responses induced in Arabidopsis thaliana.	The production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the induction of the antioxidative defense mechanism are very important in heavy metal toxicity. In this study, biological effects induced after uranium contamination were investigated for Arabidopsis thaliana. Three-week-old seedlings were exposed for 4days to 100microM U in an adjusted Hoagland solution. Uranium exposure caused a decreased growth of leaves (38%) and roots (70%) and a modified nutrient profile was observed. Investigation of lipid peroxidation products indicated a significant increase of membrane damage. Important ROS-producing and -scavenging enzymes were studied at transcriptional and protein level to investigate the importance of the ROS-signature in uranium toxicity. Elevated gene expression was observed for NADPH-oxidase, a ROS-producing enzyme. Changes in gene expression for different ROS-scavenging enzymes as Cu/ZnSOD, FeSOD and APX were also observed. Analysis of enzyme capacities showed little effects after uranium contamination. Higher ascorbate levels in uranium exposed leaves suggested an increase of antioxidative defense via the ascorbate-glutathione pathway after uranium exposure. Theoretical calculations indicated rapid formation of uranium-phosphate precipitates if normal phosphate concentrations are used. Precipitation tests recommend the use of 25microM P in combination with 100microM U to inhibit uranium precipitation. Because this combination was used for uranium toxicity investigation, the influence of this low phosphate concentration on plant growth and oxidative stress had to be evaluated. Minor differences between low phosphate (25microM P) and high phosphate (100microM P) treatments were observed justifying the use of the low phosphate concentration in combination with uranium.
Cadmium stress alters gene expression of DNA mismatch repair related genes in Arabidopsis seedlings.	Cadmium (Cd) is a non essential element, and is a widespread environmental pollutant. Exposure to Cd can result in a variety of adverse health effects in plant and humans. In the current study, Arabidopsis seedlings were used as a bio-indicator of Cd pollution. Seedlings were grown on MS media containing 0-6.0 mg L(-1) Cd for 18 days, and the gene expression patterns were used to link increased Cd exposure with progressive biological effects. Reduction of total soluble protein content in shoots of the Arabidopsis seedlings occurred with increase in Cd concentrations. For the gene expression patterns, seven genes known to be involved in cell division and DNA mismatch repair (MMR) system were investigated by semi-quantitative RT-PCR, and normalized using 18S rRNA gene expression. Expression of the proliferating cell nuclear antigen 2 (atPCNA 2), MutS 3 homolog (atMSH 3) and MutL1 homolog (atMLH1) genes in shoots of Arabidopsis was strongly induced by exposure to 0.75 mg L(-1) Cd, but were repressed by other Cd concentrations whereas exposure to 0.75-6 mg L(-1) of Cd resulted in a decreased expression of atPCNA1, atMSH 2, 6 and 7 genes independently of any observable biological effects, including survival, fresh weight and chlorophyll level of shoots. This work demonstrated that specific gene expression changes could serve as useful molecular biomarkers indicative of Cd exposure and related biological effects.
Functional characterization of DEAD-box RNA helicases in Arabidopsis thaliana under abiotic stress conditions.	DEAD-box RNA helicases have been implicated to have a function during stress adaptation processes, but their functional roles in plant stress responses remain to be clearly elucidated. Here, we assessed the expression patterns and functional roles of two RNA helicases, AtRH9 and AtRH25, in Arabidopsis thaliana under abiotic stress conditions. The transcript levels of AtRH9 and AtRH25 were up-regulated markedly in response to cold stress, whereas their transcript levels were down-regulated by salt or drought stress. Phenotypic analysis of the transgenic plants and T-DNA-tagged mutants showed that the constitutive overexpression of AtRH9 or AtRH25 resulted in the retarded seed germination of Arabidopsis plants under salt stress conditions. AtRH25, but not AtRH9, enhanced freezing tolerance in Arabidopsis plants. Both AtRH9 and AtRH25 complemented the cold-sensitive phenotype of BX04 Escherichia coli mutant cells, but AtRH25 had much more prominent complementation ability than AtRH9. An in vitro nucleic acid binding assay showed that AtRH9 binds equally to all homoribopolymers, whereas AtRH25 binds preferentially to poly(G). Taken together, these results demonstrate that AtRH9 and AtRH25 impact on the seed germination of Arabidopsis plants under salt stress conditions, and suggest that the difference in cold tolerance capability between AtRH9 and AtRH25 arises from their different nucleic acid-binding properties.
Synthesis and phytotoxic activity of ozonides.	The [4 + 3] cycloaddition of the proper furans with the oxyallyl cation, generated in situ from 2,4-dibromopentan-3-one, produced a series of 8-oxabicyclo [3.2.1]oct-6-en-3-ones. Exposure of the oxabicycles to ozone afforded the corresponding 8,9,10,11-tetraoxatricyclo[5.2.1.1 (2,6)]undecan-4-ones in variable yields (7-100%). The phytotoxic properties of these ozonides (or 1,2,4-trioxolanes) and their oxabicycle precursors were evaluated as the ability to interfere with the growth of Sorghum bicolor and Cucumis sativus seedlings. Among oxabicycles, the highest inhibitory activity was shown by compounds possessing a alpha,beta-unsaturated carbonyl moiety. A differential sensitivity of the two crops was evident with ozonides. The most active compounds were also tested against the weed species Ipomoea grandifolia and Brachiaria decumbens. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first article describing ozonides as potential herbicides.
Effects of nitrogen forms on camptothecin content and its metabolism-related enzymes activities in Camptotheca acuminata seedlings]	To investigate the effects of nitrogen forms on the camptothecin (CPT) content, tryptophan synthase (TSB) and tryptophan decarboxylase (TDC) activities in Camptotheca acuminata seedlings.
Effect of nitric oxide and other nitrogen compounds on the adhesion and penetration of nodule bacteria into root tissues and on growth of etiolated pea seedlings]	The action of sodium nitroprusside, a nitric oxide donor, and other nitrogen compounds (KNO3, KNO2, and (NH4)2SO4) on adhesion and penetration of nodule bacteria into root tissues of etiolated pea seedlings was studied. Only nitroprusside displayed a clearly negative effect on rhizobium adhesion and penetration and seedling growth. This effect was not observed with other nitrogen compounds even at high (20 mM) concentrations. Hemoglobin attenuated the negative effect of nitroprusside on bacteria and seedlings. The results are discussed in the context of the role of nitric oxide in the life of plants and nodule bacteria.
The Arabidopsis glutathione transferase gene family displays complex stress regulation and co-silencing multiple genes results in altered metabolic sensitivity to oxidative stress.	Plant glutathione transferases (GSTs) are induced by diverse biotic and abiotic stimuli, and are important for protecting plants against oxidative damage. We have studied the primary transcriptional stress response of the entire Arabidopsis GST family to seven stresses, including both biotic and abiotic stimuli, with a focus on early changes in gene expression. Our results indicate that individual GST genes are highly specific in their induction patterns. Furthermore, we have been able to link individual GSTs to particular stress stimuli. Using RNAi, we successfully co-silenced a group of four phi GSTs that represent some of the most highly expressed GST genes. Despite a marked reduction in total phi GST protein levels, the transgenic plants showed no reduction in GST activity as measured using the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), and appeared to have surprisingly robust physical phenotypes during stress. However, analysis of metabolite pools showed oxidation of the glutathione pool in the RNAi lines, and we observed alterations in carbon and nitrogen compounds following salicylic acid and hydrogen peroxide stress treatments, indicative of oxidative modification of primary metabolism. Thus, there appears to be a high degree of functional redundancy within the Arabidopsis GST family, with extensive disruption being required to reveal the roles of phi GSTs in protection against oxidative stress.
Beneficial effects of exogenous selenium in cucumber seedlings subjected to salt stress.	The study was conducted in order to determine the effects of exogenous selenium (Se) supply (5, 10, or 20 M) on the resistance of cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) cv. Polan F1 seedlings to salt stress (50 mM NaCl). Plant growth was negatively affected by excessive salinity and dry mass production as well as photosynthetic pigments accumulation severely decreased. Se treatments at 5 and 10 M significantly improved the growth rate and increased the photosynthetic pigments and proline contents in cucumber leaves subjected to salt stress. Moreover, it is concluded that Se enhanced the salt tolerance of seedlings by protecting the cell membrane against lipid peroxidation. The growth-promoting effect of low Se concentrations (5 and 10 M) under saline conditions could be due to the antioxidative activity of Se, increase in proline accumulation and/or decrease in content of chloride ions in the shoots tissues. Thus, optimal Se supplementation presents a promising potential for use in conditions of relatively high levels of NaCl in the medium.
The endogenous hormones in soybean seedlings under the joint actions of rare earth element La(III) and ultraviolet-B stress.	The dynamic state of endogenous hormone content in soybean seedlings was investigated for a further demonstration of alleviating the damage of the ultraviolet ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation in the La(III)-treated soybean seedlings under UV-B stress. Using hydroponics culture, the effects of lanthanum(III) on the contents of endogenous hormone under elevated ultraviolet-B radiation (280320 nm) was studied. The results showed that the content of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) in soybean seedlings decreased initially and then increased when the seedlings underwent UV-B treatment during the stress and convalescent period; this was compared with a control; acetic acid oxidase (IAAO) activity increased at first (first to fifth day) and then decreased (sixth to 11th day). A similar change of abscisic acid content and IAAO content in soybean seedlings occurred; gibberellic acid (GA) content decreased during the experiment compared with control. The content of IAA and GA in soybean seedlings with La(III) + UV-B treatment was higher than those of UV-B treatment; IAAO activity and GA content in soybean seedlings with La (III) + UV-B treatment were lower than those of UV-B treatment. It suggested that the regulative effect of La(III) at the optimum concentration on endogenous hormone improved the ability of plant stress resistance, and its protective effect against low UV-B radiation was superior to high UV-B radiation. The defensive effect of La(III) on soybean seedlings under UV-B stress was carried out on the layer of defense system.
Brassinosteroids protect Lycopersicon esculentum from cadmium toxicity applied as shotgun approach.	Surface-sterilized seeds of two tomato cultivars (cv. K-25 and Sarvodya) were soaked in 100 microM CdCl(2) for 8 h (shotgun approach). The resulting 59-day-old seedlings were sprayed with 10(-8) M of 28-homobrassinolide (HBL) or 24-epibrassinolide (EBL) to their foliage. Both cultivars showed significantly different response to Cd stress. Cadmium severely restricted the growth, photosynthetic efficiency, and activity of nitrate reductase (E.C. 1.6.6.1) and carbonic anhydrase (E.C. 4.2.1.1) in Sarvodya as compared to K-25. However, the activities of antioxidative enzymes were significantly higher in K-25. This result may be considered an indication of better tolerance of the K-25 cultivars to Cd stress. Moreover, the spray of both the brassinosteroids (HBL/EBL) were found very effective in neutralizing the adverse effects generated by metals that reflect in better photosynthetic performance by the cultivars. An interesting aspect of this study is that HBL or EBL spray caused a further increase in proline content and antioxidative enzyme activities, which were already enhanced by Cd stress. This effect of brassinosteroids (HBL/EBL) was more pronounced in K-25 than in Sarvodya, representing the tolerance and adoptable behavior of K-25.
Abscisic acid pretreatment enhances salt tolerance of rice seedlings: proteomic evidence.	Enhanced salt tolerance of rice seedlings by abscisic acid (ABA) pretreatment was observed from phenotypic and physiological analyses. Total proteins from rice roots treated with ABA plus subsequent salt stress were analyzed by using proteomics method. Results showed that, 40 protein spots were uniquely upregulated in the seedlings under the condition of ABA pretreatment plus subsequent salt stress, whereas only 16 under the condition of salt treatment. About 78% (31 spots) of the 40 protein spots were only upregulated in the presence of the subsequent salt stress, indicating that plants might have an economical strategy to prevent energy loss under a false alarm. The results also showed that more enzymes involved in energy metabolism, defense, primary metabolism, etc. were upregulated uniquely in ABA-pretreated rice seedlings, suggesting more abundant energy supply, more active anabolism (nitrogen, nucleotide acid, carbohydrate, etc), and more comprehensive defense systems in ABA-pretreated seedlings than in salt stressed ones.
Cessation of coleoptile elongation and loss of auxin sensitivity in developing rye seedlings: a quantitative proteomic analysis.	The use of the grass coleoptile for the elucidation of the mechanism of cell elongation is a legacy of the classic experiments of Charles Darwin, who described this organ in 1880 as a "reddish sheath". In this study we quantified the growth of intact, etiolated rye (Secale cereale L.) seedlings and selected 3-day-old (growing) vs. 4-day-old (pierced) coleoptiles for a comparative analysis. Upon emergence of the reddish primary leaf on day 4 after sowing, growth slowed down by 70% and the sensitivity of the coleoptile to auxin (Indole-3-acetic acid) was lost, but turgor pressure was maintained. A quantitative comparison of the proteome (microsomal- and cytoplasmic protein fractions, respectively), using the two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2-D DIGE)-technique, revealed that at least 28 proteins (spots) were differentially up- or down-regulated more than 1.5-fold. Eight of these proteins were identified by reverse-phase liquid chromatography-electrospray tandem mass spectrometry. Cessation of coleoptile growth was associated with the down-regulation (- 81 %) of subunit E of the vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) and the up-regulation of enzymes involved in lignification (phenylalanine ammonia lyase) and wounding responses (xylanase inhibitor; two lipoxygenases). We conclude that the degradation of the V-ATPases, electrogenic proton pumps on the tonoplast and the membranes of the Golgi- dependent secretory pathway, may be the cause for the cessation of growth in turgid coleoptiles and the associated loss of auxin sensitivity. However, the intracellular signals that cause these proteomic changes have not yet been identified. 
Exogenous proline application reduces phytotoxic effects of selenium by minimising oxidative stress and improves growth in bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) seedlings.	Bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) seedlings were subjected to varying selenium levels (1, 2, 4, and 6 ppm) in a hydroponic culture. The germination reached 100% in 48 h in all Se levels except 6 ppm, where it took 72 h. The root and shoot growth was stimulated at 1 and 2 ppm Se levels that was commensurate with increase in chlorophyll content, leaf water content, and cellular respiration. At 4 and 6 ppm Se levels, the growth was inhibited appreciably, which was associated with increase in stress injury measured as damage to membranes and decrease in cellular respiration, chlorophyll, and leaf water content. The oxidative injury as elevation of lipid peroxidation was larger compared to hydrogen peroxide accompanied by reduced levels of enzymatic (superoxide dismutase, catalase, ascorbate peroxidase, and glutathione reductase) and non-enzymatic (ascorbic acid and glutathione) antioxidants. Proline content was significantly higher at 1 and 2 ppm Se but diminished considerably at 4 and 6 ppm levels concomitant with the reduced growth. Exogenous application of proline (50 M) resulted in substantiation of its endogenous levels that antagonised the toxic effects of Se by improving the growth of seedlings. The stress injury was reduced significantly with simultaneous increase in enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants. Especially the components of ascorbate-glutathione cycle showed larger stimulation with proline application. The role of proline in mitigating the toxic effects of Se is discussed.
Separating multiple, short-term, deleterious effects of saline solutions on the growth of cowpea seedlings.	 Reductions in plant growth as a result of salinity are of global importance in natural and agricultural landscapes.  Short-term (48-h) solution culture experiments studied 404 treatments with seedlings of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata cv Caloona) to examine the multiple deleterious effects of calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg), sodium (Na) or potassium (K).  Growth was poorly related to the ion activities in the bulk solution, but was closely related to the calculated activities at the outer surface of the plasma membrane, {I(z)}. The addition of Mg, Na or K may induce Ca deficiency in roots by driving {Ca+} to < 1.6 mM. Shoots were more sensitive than roots to osmolarity. Specific ion toxicities reduced root elongation in the order Ca+ > Mg+ > Na+ > K+. The addition of K and, to a lesser extent, Ca alleviated the toxic effects of Na. Thus, Ca is essential but may also be intoxicating or ameliorative.  The data demonstrate that the short-term growth of cowpea seedlings in saline solutions may be limited by Ca deficiency, osmotic effects and specific ion toxicities, and K and Ca alleviate Na toxicity. A multiple regression model related root growth to osmolarity and {I(z)} (R=0.924), allowing the quantification of their effects.
Localization of lipoxygenase activity on the oil bodies and in protoplasts using a novel fluorescence imaging method.	Lipoxygenase (linoleate:oxygen oxidoreductase; EC 1.13.11.12; LOX) catalyzes oxygenation of polyenoic fatty acids, which precedes the degradation of storage lipids during seed germination in sunflower. In the present work, it has been confirmed that 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate (H(2)DCFDA) produces fluorescence in presence of lipid hydroperoxides (LOX reaction products). This work provides new information on spatial localization of transiently enhanced LOX activity in protoplasts from 5d old seedling cotyledons of sunflower (Helianthus annuus L. cv. Morden) by exploiting H(2)DCFDA as a probe for fluorescence detection from LOX activity sites. Use of LOX inhibitors [nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA) and propyl gallate (PG)] confirms oil bodies as LOX activity sites. Oil body surface has been shown to possess LOX activity in 5d old seedling cotyledons.
Comparative effects of native filamentous and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in the establishment of an autochthonous, leguminous shrub growing in a metal-contaminated soil.	The aim of this study was to assess the effectiveness of inoculation with a native arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus, Glomus mosseae (Nicol. and Gerd.) Gerd. and Trappe, or a filamentous fungus, Penicillium aurantiogriseum Dierckx 1901, on the establishment of Coronilla juncea L. seedlings grown in a polluted, semiarid soil. For that, root and shoot biomass, nutrient uptake, mycorrhizal colonisation and nitrate reductase (NR) and phosphatase activities were analysed. Six months after planting, the shoot biomass of C. juncea was increased only by the inoculation with G. mosseae (by about 62% compared with non-mycorrhizal plants). The shoot NR and root acid phosphatase activities were increased more by inoculation with G. mosseae than with P. aurantiogriseum inoculation. The root NR activity and foliar nutrient contents were increased only by the inoculation with the AM fungus. The root Zn and Cu decreased with the AM fungus. In conclusion, the autochthonous AM fungus was an effective inoculant with regard to stimulating growth and alleviating heavy metal toxicity for plants growing on a soil contaminated by multiple heavy metals. Inoculation with an autochthonous, filamentous fungus does not seem to be a good strategy for phytoremediation of such problematic sites.
Nuclear actin-related proteins at the core of epigenetic control.	Nuclear Actin-Related Proteins (ARPs) and actin combine as heterodimers to bind a large helicase subunit and form a core complex essential to the assembly and function of most chromatin remodeling and modifying machines. They are the most common shared subunits of these large and diverse assemblies in eukaryotes. We recently argued that most nuclear ARPs evolved directly from actin prior to the divergence of the eukaryotic kingdoms and did not evolve from pre-existing ARPs.2 Arabidopsis plants defective in nuclear ARP4, ARP5, ARP6, or ARP7 have extreme developmental phenotypes. Our recent publication demonstrates that ARP5-defective plants are not only dwarfed and have aberrant cell sizes, but are also hypersensitive to mutagenic agents that cause double strand DNA breaks.5 In Smith et al.6 we show that ARP6-defective plants, in addition to their extreme developmental phenotypes like small organs and early flowering, present an apparent "Phosphate Starvation Response" with strong morphological and molecular phenotypes. Herein, we interpret our latest data in the light of a hypothesis stating that in addition to their roles in overcoming DNA compaction that affects basal gene expression and silencing, nuclear ARP-containing chromatin complexes exert primary epigenetic control over high-level regulatory factors. 
Negative reciprocal interactions between gibberellin and cytokinin in tomato.	 The hormones gibberellin (GA) and cytokinin (CK) exhibit antagonistic effects on various processes in many species. Previous studies in Arabidopsis have shown that GA inhibits CK signaling. Here, we have investigated the cross-talk between GA and CK in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum).  We altered the balance between GA and CK activities by exogenous applications and genetic manipulations, and tested an array of physiological and developmental responses.  GA and CK showed antagonistic effects on various developmental and molecular processes during tomato plant growth. GA inhibited all tested CK responses, including the induction of the CK primary response genes, type A Tomato Response Regulators (TRRs). CK also inhibited a subset of GA responses. In contrast with exogenous application of GA, the endogenous GA-independent GA signal generated by the loss of the DELLA gene PROCERA (PRO) did not repress CK-regulated processes, such as anthocyanin accumulation, TRR expression and leaf complexity.  Our results suggest a mutual antagonistic interaction between GA and CK in tomato. Although GA may inhibit early steps in the CK response pathway via a DELLA-independent pathway, CK appears to affect downstream branch(es) of the GA signaling pathway. The ratio between the two hormones, rather than their absolute levels, determines the final response.
A fast brassinolide-regulated response pathway in the plasma membrane of Arabidopsis thaliana.	To understand molecular processes in living plant cells, quantitative spectro-microscopic technologies are required. By combining fluorescence lifetime spectroscopy with confocal microscopy, we studied the subcellular properties and function of a GFP-tagged variant of the plasma membrane-bound brassinosteroid receptor BRI1 (BRI1-GFP) in living cells of Arabidopsis seedlings. Shortly after adding brassinolide, we observed BRI1-dependent cell-wall expansion, preceding cell elongation. In parallel, the fluorescence lifetime of BRI1-GFP decreased, indicating an alteration in the receptor's physico-chemical environment. The parameter modulating the fluorescence lifetime of BRI1-GFP was found to be BL-induced hyperpolarization of the plasma membrane. Furthermore, for induction of hyperpolarization and cell-wall expansion, activation of the plasma membrane P-ATPase was necessary. This activation required BRI1 kinase activity, and was mediated by BL-modulated interaction of BRI1 with the P-ATPase. Our results were used to develop a model suggesting that there is a fast BL-regulated signal response pathway within the plasma membrane that links BRI1 with P-ATPase for the regulation of cell-wall expansion.
Response of Holm oak (Quercus ilex subsp. ballota) and mastic shrub (Pistacia lentiscus L.) seedlings to high concentrations of Cd and Tl in the rhizosphere.	The impairment of root growth and photosynthetical functioning are the main impacts of trace elements on woody plant seedlings. In this work, we assessed the response of Holm oak (Quercusilex subsp. ballota) and mastic shrub (Pistacia lentiscus) seedlings to high concentrations of Cd and Tl in the rhizosphere. These are non-essential trace elements, with a potential high mobility in the soil-plant system. Seedlings of these species are frequently used in the afforestation of degraded soils in mining areas. Plants were exposed to different levels of Cd (20, 80 and 200 mg L(-1)) and Tl (2, 10 and 20 mg L(-1)) in a sand culture. Biomass allocation, growth rates, chlorophyll fluorescence and gas exchange were studied. Both metals affected root biomass. Cadmium produced an increase in the root mass ratio and a decrease in the specific leaf area of the plants in oak seedlings, while Tl did not provoke such response. Mastic plants were more sensitive to Tl and Cd than oak plants. Between elements, Tl provoked more severe toxic effects in the plants, affecting the antennae complexes and reaction centers of the photosystem II. Both elements decreased net assimilation rates (down to a 20% of the control plants) and stomatal conductance (5-10% of the values for the control plants). Cadmium was highly retained in the roots of both species, while Tl was highly translocated into the leaves. In general, Holm oak showed a higher tolerance for Cd than for Tl, and a higher resistance to both metals than mastic shrub, due to a high capacity for Cd retention at the root level. However, such accumulation in roots may induce water stress in the seedling exposed to Cd.
Cinnamic acid pretreatment mitigates chilling stress of cucumber leaves through altering antioxidant enzyme activity.	To elucidate the physiological mechanism of chilling stress mitigated by cinnamic acid (CA) pretreatment, a cucumber variety (Cucumis sativus cv. Jinchun no. 4) was pretreated with 50 M CA for 2d and was then cultivated at two temperatures (15/8 and 25/18 C) for 1d. We investigated whether exogenous CA could protect cucumber plantlets from chilling stress (15/8 C) and examined whether the protective effect was associated with the regulation of antioxidant enzymes and lipid peroxidation. At 2d, exogenous CA did not influence plant growth, but induced the activities of some antioxidant enzymes, including superoxide dismutase (SOD, EC 1.15.1.1), catalase (CAT, EC 1.11.1.6), guaiacol peroxidase (GPX, EC 1.11.1.7), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px, EC 1.6.4.2) and ascorbate peroxidase (APX, EC 1.11.1.11) in cucumber leaves, and it also elevated the contents of reduced glutathione (GSH) and ascorbate (AsA). When CA was rinsed and the CA-pretreated seedlings were exposed to different temperatures, the antioxidant activities in leaves at 3d had undergone additional change. Chilling increased the activities of CAT, GSH-PX, APX, GSH and AsA in leaves, but the combination of CA pretreatment and chilling enhanced the antioxidant activities even more. Moreover, chilling inhibited plant growth and increased the contents of malonaldehyde (MDA), superoxide radical (O) and hydrogen peroxide (HO) in cucumber leaves, and the stress resulted in 87.5% of the second leaves being withered. When CA pretreatment was combined with the chilling stress, we observed alleviated growth inhibition and decreased contents of MDA, HO and O in comparison to non-pretreated stressed plants, and found that the withered leaves occurred at a rate of 25.0%. We propose that CA pretreatment increases antioxidant enzyme activities in chilling-stressed leaves and decreases lipid peroxidation to some extent, enhancing the tolerance of cucumber leaves to chilling stress.
Multiple facets of Arabidopsis seedling development require indole-3-butyric acid-derived auxin.	Levels of auxin, which regulates both cell division and cell elongation in plant development, are controlled by synthesis, inactivation, transport, and the use of storage forms. However, the specific contributions of various inputs to the active auxin pool are not well understood. One auxin precursor is indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), which undergoes peroxisomal -oxidation to release free indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). We identified ENOYL-COA HYDRATASE2 (ECH2) as an enzyme required for IBA response. Combining the ech2 mutant with previously identified iba response mutants resulted in enhanced IBA resistance, diverse auxin-related developmental defects, decreased auxin-responsive reporter activity in both untreated and auxin-treated seedlings, and decreased free IAA levels. The decreased auxin levels and responsiveness, along with the associated developmental defects, uncover previously unappreciated roles for IBA-derived IAA during seedling development, establish IBA as an important auxin precursor, and suggest that IBA-to-IAA conversion contributes to the positive feedback that maintains root auxin levels.
Aluminum regulates oxalate secretion and plasma membrane H+-ATPase activity independently in tomato roots.	We demonstrated that aluminum (Al)-induced oxalate secretion and plasma membrane (PM) H(+)-ATPase activity in tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum 'Hezuo903') roots were poorly correlated. In addition, vanadate, an inhibitor of PM H(+)-ATPase, had no effect on Al-induced oxalate secretion, but significantly inhibited enzyme activity. An anion channel inhibitor phenylglyoxal inhibited oxalate secretion, but not PM H(+)-ATPase activity. Exposure of tomato roots to 10M LaCl(3) also stimulated PM H(+)-ATPase activity; however, La failed to induce oxalate secretion. Furthermore, Al-induced changes of PM H(+)-ATPase activity were not associated with oxalate secretion in two tomato cultivars differing in the ability to secrete oxalate under Al stress. These results indicate that Al independently regulates oxalate secretion and PM H(+)-ATPase activity in tomato roots. Analysis of expression levels of PM H(+)-ATPase genes by real-time reverse transcription-PCR and protein by Western blot and immunodetection revealed that the regulation of PM H(+)-ATPase in response to Al was subjected to transcriptional and posttranscriptional control. However, since neither transcriptional level of genes nor translational level of proteins directly relate to the enzyme activity, posttranslational modification of PM H(+)-ATPase under Al stress likely contributes to changes in activity of this protein.
Anoxia-induced elevation of cytosolic Ca2+ concentration depends on different Ca2+ sources in rice and wheat protoplasts.	The anoxia-dependent elevation of cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration, [Ca(2+)](cyt), was investigated in plants differing in tolerance to hypoxia. The [Ca(2+)](cyt) was measured by fluorescence microscopy in single protoplasts loaded with the calcium-fluoroprobe Fura 2-AM. Imposition of anoxia led to a fast (within 3min) significant elevation of [Ca(2+)](cyt) in rice leaf protoplasts. A tenfold drop in the external Ca(2+) concentration (to 0.1mM) resulted in considerable decrease of the [Ca(2+)](cyt) shift. Rice root protoplasts reacted upon anoxia with higher amplitude. Addition of plasma membrane (verapamil, La(3+) and EGTA) and intracellular membrane Ca(2+)-channel antagonists (Li(+), ruthenium red and cyclosporine A) reduced the anoxic Ca(2+)-accumulation in rice. Wheat protoplasts responded to anoxia by smaller changes of [Ca(2+)](cyt). In wheat leaf protoplasts, the amplitude of the Ca(2+)-shift little depended on the external level of Ca(2+). Wheat root protoplasts were characterized by a small shift of [Ca(2+)](cyt) under anoxia. Plasmalemma Ca(2+)-channel blockers had little effect on the elevation of cytosolic Ca(2+) in wheat protoplasts. Intact rice seedlings absorbed Ca(2+) from the external medium under anoxic treatment. On the contrary, wheat seedlings were characterized by leakage of Ca(2+). Verapamil abolished the Ca(2+) influx in rice roots and Ca(2+) efflux from wheat roots. Anoxia-induced [Ca(2+)](cyt) elevation was high particularly in rice, a hypoxia-tolerant species. In conclusion, both external and internal Ca(2+) stores are important for anoxic [Ca(2+)](cyt) elevation in rice, whereas the hypoxia-intolerant wheat does not require external sources for [Ca(2+)](cyt) rise. Leaf and root protoplasts similarly responded to anoxia, independent of their organ origin.
Interaction between a dark septate endophytic isolate from Dendrobium sp. and roots of D. nobile seedlings.	Interactions between an isolate of dark septate endophytes (DSE) and roots of Dendrobium nobile Lindl. seedlings are reported in this paper. The isolate was obtained from orchid mycorrhizas on Dendrobium sp. in subtropical forest. The fungus formed typical orchid mycorrhiza in aseptic co-culture with D. nobile seedlings on modified Murashige-Skoog (MMS) medium. Anatomic observations of the infected roots showed that the DSE hyphae invaded the velamen layer, passed through passage cells in exodermis, entered the cortex cells, and then formed fungal pelotons of orchid mycorrhiza. D. nobile seedlings' plant height, stem diameter, new roots number and biomass were greatly enhanced by inoculating the fungus to seedlings. The fungus was identified as Leptodontidium by sequencing the polymerase chain reaction-amplified rDNA ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 (internal transcribed spacer (ITS)) regions and comparison with similar taxa.
Tissue- and isoform-specific phytochrome regulation of light-dependent anthocyanin accumulation in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Phytochromes regulate light- and sucrose-dependent anthocyanin synthesis and accumulation in many plants. Mesophyll-specific phyA alone has been linked to the regulation of anthocyanin accumulation in response to far-red light in Arabidopsis thaliana. However, multiple mesophyll-localized phytochromes were implicated in the photoregulation of anthocyanin accumulation in red-light conditions. Here, we report a role for mesophyll-specific phyA in blue-light-dependent regulation of anthocyanin levels and novel roles for individual phy isoforms in the regulation of anthocyanin accumulation under red illumination. These results provide new insight into spatial- and isoform-specific regulation of pigmentation by phytochromes in A. thaliana.
Arabidopsis ORGAN SIZE RELATED1 regulates organ growth and final organ size in orchestration with ARGOS and ARL.	 The growth of a plant organ to its characteristic size is regulated by an elaborate developmental program involving both internal and external signals. Here, we identify a novel Arabidopsis gene, ORGAN SIZE RELATED1 (OSR1), that is involved in regulation of organ growth and overall organ size.  A combination of genetic, cytological and molecular approaches was used to characterize the expression profile, subcellular localization and roles of OSR1 during organ growth.  Ectopic expression of OSR1 in Arabidopsis resulted in enlarged organs, as a consequence of increases in both cell number and cell size. OSR1 shares a conserved OSR domain with ARGOS and ARGOS-LIKE (ARL), which is sufficient for their functions in promoting organ growth. OSR1 is a plant hormone-responsive gene and appears to act redundantly with ARGOS and ARL during organ growth. The OSR proteins are localized to the endoplasmic reticulum.  Our results suggest that three co-evolved members of the OSR family may act coordinately to orchestrate growth signals and cell proliferation and expansion, thereby affecting organ growth and final organ size.
GMI1, a structural-maintenance-of-chromosomes-hinge domain-containing protein, is involved in somatic homologous recombination in Arabidopsis.	DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) pose one of the most severe threats to genome integrity, potentially leading to cell death. After detection of a DSB, the DNA damage and repair response is initiated and the DSB is repaired by non-homologous end joining and/or homologous recombination. Many components of these processes are still unknown in Arabidopsis thaliana. In this work, we characterized -irradiation and mitomycin C induced 1 (GMI1), a member of the SMC-hinge domain-containing protein family. RT-PCR analysis and promoter-GUS fusion studies showed that -irradiation, the radio-mimetic drug bleocin, and the DNA cross-linking agent mitomycin C strongly enhance GMI1 expression particularly in meristematic tissues. The induction of GMI1 by -irradiation depends on the signalling kinase Ataxia telangiectasia-mutated (ATM) but not on ATM and Rad3-related (ATR). Epistasis analysis of single and double mutants demonstrated that ATM acts upstream of GMI1 while the atr gmi1-2 double mutant was more sensitive than the respective single mutants. Comet assay revealed a reduced rate of DNA double-strand break repair in gmi1 mutants during the early recovery phase after exposure to bleocin. Moreover, the rate of homologous recombination of a reporter construct was strongly reduced in gmi1 mutant plants upon exposure to bleocin or mitomycin C. GMI1 is the first member of its protein family known to be involved in DNA repair.
Antagonistic role of 9-lipoxygenase-derived oxylipins and ethylene in the control of oxidative stress, lipid peroxidation and plant defence.	9-lipoxygenases (9-LOXs) initiate fatty acid oxygenation in plant tissues, with formation of 9-hydroxy-10,12,15-octadecatrienoic acid (9-HOT) from linolenic acid. A lox1 lox5 mutant, which is deficient in 9-LOX activity, and two mutants noxy6 and noxy22 (non-responding to oxylipins), which are insensitive to 9-HOT, have been used to investigate 9-HOT signalling. Map-based cloning indicated that the noxy6 and noxy22 mutations are located at the CTR1 (CONSTITUTIVE ETHYLENE RESPONSE1) and ETO1 (ETHYLENE-OVERPRODUCER1) loci, respectively. In agreement, the noxy6 and noxy22 mutants, renamed as ctr1-15 and eto1-14, respectively, showed enhanced ethylene (ET) production. The correlation between increased ET production and reduced 9-HOT sensitivity indicated by these results was supported by experiments in which exogenously added ethylene precursor ACC (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid) impaired the responses to 9-HOT. Moreover, a reciprocal interaction between ET and 9-HOT signalling was indicated by results showing that the effect of ACC was reduced in the presence of 9-HOT. We found that the 9-LOX and ET pathways regulate the response to the lipid peroxidation-inducer singlet oxygen. Thus, the massive transcriptional changes seen in wild-type plants in response to singlet oxygen were greatly affected in the lox1 lox5 and eto1-14 mutants. Furthermore, these mutants displayed enhanced susceptibility to both singlet oxygen and Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato, in the latter case leading to increased accumulation of the lipid peroxidation product malondialdehyde. These findings demonstrate an antagonistic relationship between products of the 9-LOX and ET pathways, and suggest a role for the 9-LOX pathway in modulating oxidative stress, lipid peroxidation and plant defence.
The plastidial folylpolyglutamate synthetase and root apical meristem maintenance.	Folylpolyglutamate synthetase (FPGS) catalyzes the attachment of glutamate residues to the folate molecule in plants. Three isoforms of FPGS have been identified in Arabidopsis and these are localized in the plastid (AtDFB), mitochondria (AtDFC), and cytosol (AtDFD). We recently determined that mutants in the AtDFB (At5G05980) gene disrupt primary root development in Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings. Transient expression of AtDFB-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion under the control of the native AtDFB promoter in Nicotiana tabacum leaf epidermal cells verified the plastid localization of AtDFB. Furthermore, low concentrations of methotrexate (MTX), a compound commonly used as a folate antagonist in plant and mammalian cells induced primary root defects in wild type seedlings that were similar to atdfb. In addition, atdfb seedlings were more sensitive to MTX when compared to wild type. Quantitative (q) RT-PCR showed lower transcript levels of the mitochondrial and cytosolic FPGS in roots of 7 day old atdfb seedling suggesting feedback regulation of AtDFB on the expression of other FPGS isoforms during early seedling development. The primary root defects of atdfb, which can be traced in part to altered quiescent center (QC) identity, pave the way for future studies that could link cell type specific folate and FPGS isoform requirements to whole organ development.
Examination of common ragweed's (Ambrosia artemisiifolia L.) allelopathic effect on some weed species.	In the last decades the importance of some weed species increased in Hungary. The common ragweed (Ambrosia artemisiifolia L.) also belongs to this group. The allelopathic effect of watery extract made from different plant parts of common ragweed (air dried leafy shoots, seeds) were studied on the germination and growth of some weed species. The extracts were prepared with tap water, chopped dry plant materials were added to water and 24 hours later the material was filtered. The germination took place in a Binder KBW type thermostat in dark. 25 seeds were put into one Petri-dish, adding 15 ml plant extract to each in four repeats. The timing of germination was checked in every two days and the rate of growth was estimated after a week, by counting the numbers of germinated seeds and measuring the length of the radicle and plumula. The measured data were statistically analysed and the effect of extracts on germinating ratio and seedling length were evaluated.
Brassinosteroid enhances jasmonate-induced anthocyanin accumulation in Arabidopsis seedlings.	Jasmonate (JA) regulates plant development, mediates defense responses, and induces anthocyanin biosynthesis as well. Previously, we isolated the psc1 mutant that partially suppressed coi1 insensitivity to JA, and found that brassinosteroid (BR) was involved in JA signaling and negatively regulated JA inhibition of root growth in Arabidopsis. In this study it was shown that JA-induced anthocyanin accumulation was reduced in BR mutants or in wild type treated with brassinazole, an inhibitor of BR biosynthesis, whereas it was induced by an application of exogenous BR. It was also shown that the 'late' anthocyanin biosynthesis genes including DFR, LDOX, and UF3GT, were induced slightly by JA in the BR mutants relative to wild type. Furthermore, the expression level of JA-induced Myb/bHLH transcription factors such as PAP1, PAP2, and GL3, which are components of the WD-repeat/Myb/bHLH transcriptional complexes that mediate the 'late' anthocyanin biosynthesis genes, was lower in the BR mutants than that in wild type. These results suggested that BR affects JA-induced anthocyanin accumulation by regulating the 'late' anthocyanin biosynthesis genes and this regulation might be mediated by the WD-repeat/Myb/bHLH transcriptional complexes.
Allelopathy of Andrographis paniculata vegetative]	Andrographis paniculata at vegetative stage were analyzed for the allelopathic effect on cabbage (Brassica chinensis), Radis (Raphanus sativus), and Desmodium styracifolium, and provided the theory reference for their application of compounding planting pattern in practice.
Tissue culture and rapid propogation of seeds of Uyghur traditional herbal Capparis spinosa]	To optimize the tissue culture and rapid proliferation techniques of seeds of Capparis spinosa for producing large scale seedlings.
Heme oxygenase-1 is associated with wheat salinity acclimation by modulating reactive oxygen species homeostasis.	Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) has been recently identified as an endogenous signaling system in animals. In this study, HO-1 upregulation and its role in acquired salt tolerance (salinity acclimation) were investigated in wheat plants. We discovered that pretreatment with a low concentration of NaCl (25 mmol/L) not only led to the induction of HO-1 protein and gene expression, as well as enhanced HO activity, but also to a salinity acclimatory response thereafter. The effect is specific for HO-1, since the potent HO-1 inhibitor zinc protoporphyrin IX blocks the above cytoprotective actions, and the cytotoxic responses conferred by 200 mmol/L NaCl are reversed partially when HO-1 inducer hemin is added. Heme oxygenase catalytic product, carbon monoxide (CO) aqueous solution pretreatment, mimicked the salinity acclimatory responses. Meanwhile, the CO-triggered re-establishment of reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis was mainly guaranteed by the induction of total and isozymatic activities, or corresponding transcripts of superoxide dismutase, ascorbate peroxidase, and cytosolic peroxidase (POD), as well as the downregulation of NADPH oxidase expression and cell-wall POD activity. A requirement of hydrogen peroxide homeostasis for HO-1-mediated salinity acclimation was also discovered. Taken together, the above results suggest that the upregulation of HO-1 expression was responsible for the observed salinity acclimation through the regulation of ROS homeostasis.
Cylindrospermopsin and microcystin-LR alter the growth, development and peroxidase enzyme activity of white mustard (Sinapis alba L.) seedlings, a comparative analysis.	This work focuses on the comparative analysis of the effects of two cyanobacterial toxins of different chemical structure cylindrospermopsin (CYN) and microcystin-LR (MC-LR) on the white mustard (Sinapis alba L.) seedlings. Both cyanotoxins reduced significantly the fresh mass and the length of cotyledons, hypocotyls and main roots of seedlings in a concentration dependent manner. For various mustard organs the 50% inhibitory concentration values (IC50) of growth were between 3-5 g ml(-1) for MC-LR and between 5-10 g ml-1 for CYN, respectively. Cyanotoxins altered the development of cotyledons, the accumulation of photosynthetically active pigments and anthocyanins. Low MC-LR concentrations (0.01 and 0.1 g ml(-1)) stimulated anthocyanin formation in the cotyledons but higher than 1 g ml(-1) MC-LR concentrations strongly inhibited it. The CYN treated chlorotic cotyledons were violet coloured in consequence of high level of anthocyanins, while MC-LR induced chlorosis was accompanied by the appearance of necrotic patches. Necrosis and increases of peroxidase enzyme activity (POD) are general stress responses but these alterations were characteristic only for MC-LR treated mustard plants. These findings provide experimental evidences of developmental alterations induced by protein synthesis and protein phosphatase inhibitory cyanotoxins (CYN and MC-LR) in a model dicotyledonous plant.
Jasmonate response of the Nicotiana tabacum agglutinin promoter in Arabidopsis thaliana.	NICTABA is a carbohydrate-binding protein (also called lectin) that is expressed in several Nicotiana species after treatment with jasmonates and insect herbivory. Analyses with tobacco lines overexpressing the NICTABA gene as well as lines with reduced lectin expression have shown the entomotoxic effect of NICTABA against Lepidopteran larvae, suggesting a role of the lectin in plant defense. Until now, little is known with respect to the upstream regulatory mechanisms that are controlling the expression of inducible plant lectins. Using Arabidopsis thaliana plants stably expressing a promoter--glucuronidase (GUS) fusion construct, it was shown that jasmonate treatment influenced the NICTABA promoter activity. A strong GUS staining pattern was detected in very young tissues (the apical and root meristems, the cotyledons and the first true leaves), but the promoter activity decreased when plants were getting older. NICTABA was also expressed at low concentrations in tobacco roots and expression levels increased after cold treatment. The data presented confirm a jasmonate-dependent response of the promoter sequence of the tobacco lectin gene in Arabidopsis. These new jasmonate-responsive tobacco promoter sequences can be used as new tools in the study of jasmonate signalling related to plant development and defense.
Elucidation of physiological and biochemical mechanisms of an endemic halophyte Centaurea tuzgoluensis under salt stress.	In this study, physiological and biochemical responses of Centaurea tuzgoluensis, a Turkish endemic halophyte, to salinity were studied. Therefore, the changes in shoot growth, leaf relative water content (RWC), ion concentrations, lipid peroxidation, hydroxyl (OH) radical scavenging activity, proline (Pro) content, and antioxidant system [superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), ascorbate peroxidase (APX) and glutathione reductase (GR)] were investigated. The 60 days (d) old C. tuzgoluensis seedlings were subjected to 0, 150 and 300 mM NaCl for 7 d and 14 d. The relative shoot growth was generally did not change in the 150 mM NaCl, but reduced with 300 mM NaCl stress at 7 d and 14 d. RWC was higher in 150 mM NaCl-treated leaves than that of 300 mM NaCl. Salinity decreased K/Na ratio, but increased Na, Cl, Ca and Na/Cl ratio in the leaves. On the other hand, it did not change or increase the K content at 150 and 300 mM NaCl, respectively. MDA content in the 150 and 300 mM NaCl-treated leaves remained close to control at 7 d. This was related to enhanced activities of SOD, CAT, APX and GR enzymes, and their isoenzymes especially Fe-SOD in the leaves. On the other hand, the higher sensitivity to 300 mM NaCl at 14 d was associated with inadequate increase in antioxidant enzymes and the decreased OH radical scavenging activity. All these results suggest that C. tuzgoluensis has different antioxidant metabolisms between short- (7 d) and long-term (14 d) salt treatments and salinity tolerance of C. tuzgoluensis might be closely related to increased capacity of antioxidative system to scavenge reactive oxygen species (ROS) and accumulation of osmoprotectant proline under salinity conditions.
N-acylethanolamine (NAE) inhibits growth in Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings via ABI3-dependent and -independent pathways.	N-acylethanolamines (NAEs) are lipid metabolites derived from the hydrolysis of the membrane phospholipid N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine (NAPE). Recent work in Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings showed that combined treatments of NAE 12:0 and ABA inhibited seedling growth synergistically, suggesting low levels of NAE could potentiate the action of ABA. Here we examined the interplay between compound concentrations, growth inhibition and mutant genotypes with impaired sensitivities to these regulators. NAE 12:0 and ABA both induced dose-dependent increases in transcript levels of ABI3, and two ABI3 responsive genes, AtHVA22B and RD29B. Interestingly, even in the absence of growth inhibition, RD29B transcripts were elevated by ABA but not NAE treatment outside the sensitive window for ABA/NAE treatment, indicating some differences in the regulation of growth and the modulation of gene expression by these two compounds. Also noteworthy, the growth of ABA insensitive mutant (abi 3-1) seedlings was inhibited at higher concentrations of NAE 12:0 but not ABA, suggesting that NAE may act to inhibit early seedling establishment by both ABI3-dependent and ABI3-independent pathways. Collectively our results reinforce the concept that NAE12:0 interacts with ABA signaling in seedling establishment, but also points to a complexity in this interaction that modulates the sensitivity of young seedlings to phytohormone-mediated growth arrest.
Malonyl-CoA synthetase, encoded by ACYL ACTIVATING ENZYME13, is essential for growth and development of Arabidopsis.	Malonyl-CoA is the precursor for fatty acid synthesis and elongation. It is also one of the building blocks for the biosynthesis of some phytoalexins, flavonoids, and many malonylated compounds. In plants as well as in animals, malonyl-CoA is almost exclusively derived from acetyl-CoA by acetyl-CoA carboxylase (EC 6.4.1.2). However, previous studies have suggested that malonyl-CoA may also be made directly from malonic acid by malonyl-CoA synthetase (EC 6.2.1.14). Here, we report the cloning of a eukaryotic malonyl-CoA synthetase gene, Acyl Activating Enzyme13 (AAE13; At3g16170), from Arabidopsis thaliana. Recombinant AAE13 protein showed high activity against malonic acid (K(m) = 529.4  98.5 M; V(m) = 24.0  2.7 mol/mg/min) but little or no activity against other dicarboxylic or fatty acids tested. Exogenous malonic acid was toxic to Arabidopsis seedlings and caused accumulation of malonic and succinic acids in the seedlings. aae13 null mutants also grew poorly and accumulated malonic and succinic acids. These defects were complemented by an AAE13 transgene or by a bacterial malonyl-CoA synthetase gene under control of the AAE13 promoter. Our results demonstrate that the malonyl-CoA synthetase encoded by AAE13 is essential for healthy growth and development, probably because it is required for the detoxification of malonate.
Benzoxazolin-2(3H)-one (BOA) induced changes in leaf water relations, photosynthesis and carbon isotope discrimination in Lactuca sativa.	The effects are reported here of Benzoxazolin-2(3H)-one (BOA), an allelopathic compound, on plant water relations, growth, components of chlorophyll fluorescence, and carbon isotope discrimination in lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.). Lettuce seedlings were grown in 1:1 Hoagland solution in perlite culture medium in environmentally controlled glasshouse. After 30 days, BOA was applied at concentration of 0.1, 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 mM and distilled water (control). BOA, in the range (0.1-1.5 mM), decreased the shoot length, root length, leaf and root fresh weight. Within this concentration range, BOA significantly reduced relative water content while leaf osmotic potential remained unaltered. Stress response of lettuce was evaluated on the basis of six days of treatment with 1.5 mM BOA by analyzing several chlorophyll fluorescence parameters determined under dark-adapted and steady state conditions. There was no change in initial fluorescence (F) in response to BOA treatment while maximum chlorophyll fluorescence (F(m)) was significantly reduced. BOA treatment significantly reduced variable fluorescence (F(v)) on first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth day. Quantum efficiency of open PSII reaction centers (F(v)/F(m)) in the dark-adapted state was significantly reduced in response to BOA treatment. Quantum yield of photosystem II (PSII) electron transport was significantly reduced because of decrease in the efficiency of excitation energy trapping of PSII reaction centers. Maximum fluorescence in light-adapted leaves (F'(m)) was significantly decreased but there was no change in initial fluorescence in light-adapted state (F') in response to 1.5 mM BOA treatment. BOA application significantly reduced photochemical fluorescence quenching (qP) indicating that the balance between excitation rate and electron transfer rate has changed leading to a more reduced state of PSII reaction centers. Non photochemical quenching (NPQ) was also significantly reduced by BOA treatment on third, fourth and fifth day. BOA had dominant effect on C isotope ratios (C) that was significantly less negative (-26.93) at 1.0 mM concentration as compared to control (-27.61). Carbon isotope discrimination (C) values were significantly less (19.45) as compared to control (20.17) at 1.0 mM. BOA also affect ratio of intercellular to air CO concentration (ci/ca) that was significantly less (0.66) as compared to control (0.69) when treated with 1.0 mM BOA. Protein content of lettuce leaf tissue decreased under BOA treatment at 1.5 mM concentration as compared to control.
Influence of different concentration Ni and Cu on the photosynthesis and chlorophyll fluorescence characteristics of Peganum harmala]	A pot experiment was conducted to study the influence of different concentration (0, 50, 100, 200, and 400 mg kg(-1)) Ni and Cu on the growth, photosynthesis, and chlorophyll fluorescence characteristics of Peganum harmala seedlings. With increasing concentration Ni in the medium, the seedlings growth parameters, photosynthetic pigment content, net photosynthetic rate (P(n)), stomatal conductance (G(s)), transpiration rate (T(r)), maximal photochemical efficiency of PS II (F(v)/F(m)), quantum efficiency of electric transport of PS II (phi (PS II)), and coefficient of photochemical quenching (q(P)) of P. harmala decreased significantly, while the intercellular CO2 concentration (C(i)) and the coefficient of non-photochemical quenching (q(N)) were in adverse. The decrease of P(n) under Ni stress was mainly caused by non-stomatal limitation. At 50 mg kg(-1) Cu, the growth parameters, photosynthetic pigment content, P(n), G(s), T(r), C(i), F(v)/F(m), phi(PS II), and q(P) reached their peak values; at 100 mg kg(-1) Cu, the growth parameters, chlorophyll a and b contents, P(n), G(s), T(r), C(i), and F(v)/F(m) were still slightly higher than the control; while with the further increasing Cu concentration in the medium, all the test indices except q(N) tended to decrease. The decrease of P(n) under Cu stress was mainly caused by stomatal limitation.
Ecotoxicity of synthetical musks on wheat (Triticum aestivum) based on seed germination]	With soil culture the ecotoxicological effects of galaxolide (HHCB) and tonalide (AHTN) on the germination of wheat (Triticum aestivum) seeds were investigated. And the influence of these two synthetical musks on the wheat germination rate, inhibition rate of root elongation and inhibition rate of shoot elongation were studied. The results showed that there were no obvious dose-effect relationship between wheat germination rate and concentrations of these two synthetical musks. Lower dose (HHCB < or = 150 mg x kg(-1), AHTN < or = 200 mg x kg(-1)) could accelerate the germination of wheat. Under the test concentrations of synthetical musks, the wheat germination rates treated with HHCB and AHTN were 77.78%-95.56% and 84.44%-97.78%, respectively. There were good dose-effect relationship between inhibition rate of root elongation (or inhibition rate of shoot elongation) and synthetical musks concentrations. The EC50 of HHCB and AHTN based on shoot were 155.84 mg x kg(-1) and 290.58 mg x kg(-1), and were 215.66 mg x kg(-1) and 323.10 mg x kg(-1) based on root from linear model. The EC50 of wheat sensitive positions showed that the toxicity of HHCB was stronger than AHTN.
Gene flow from transgenic common beans expressing the bar gene.	Gene flow is a common phenomenon even in self-pollinated plant species. With the advent of genetically modified plants this subject has become of the utmost importance due to the need for controlling the spread of transgenes. This study was conducted to determine the occurrence and intensity of outcrossing in transgenic common beans. In order to evaluate the outcross rates, four experiments were conducted in Santo Antonio de Gois (GO, Brazil) and one in Londrina (PR, Brazil), using transgenic cultivars resistant to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium and their conventional counterparts as recipients of the transgene. Experiments with cv. Olathe Pinto and the transgenic line Olathe M1/4 were conducted in a completely randomized design with ten replications for three years in one location, whereas the experiments with cv. Prola and the transgenic line Prola M1/4 were conducted at two locations for one year, with the transgenic cultivar surrounded on all sides by the conventional counterpart. The outcross occurred at a negligible rate of 0.00741% in cv. Prola, while none was observed (0.0%) in cv. Olathe Pinto. The frequency of gene flow was cultivar dependent and most of the observed outcross was within 2.5 m from the edge of the pollen source. Index terms: Phaseolus vulgaris, outcross, glufosinate ammonium.
The availability of bone powder as inorganic element source on growth and development in wheat seedlings.	Bone powder (BP), a by-product of cattle slaughtering plants, consists of fat, protein, amino acids, inorganic elements and vitamins. It is used as bone meal in biomedical and feed industry because of its rich content. In addition, bone contains a large amount of inorganic elements especially calcium (Ca) and phosphorus (P), which the plants need to maintain their physiological and biochemical processes. BP has been used as Ca and P source in agriculture for many years; however, its effects on plant growth and development have not yet been studied in detail. The present study aimed to determine the effects of BP on dry weight and contents of total chlorophyll, soluble protein and sugar as indicators of physiological response in the leaves. For this purpose, bone powder solutions (BPS) were prepared at different concentrations (0.5%, 1%, 1.5% and 2%) and applied to growing media of the 10-day wheat seedlings. Afterward, the 14-day seedlings were harvested, and the effects of BPS on plant response were determined. The results showed that BPS treatments significantly stimulated dry weight and contents of total chlorophyll, protein and sugar compared to control seedlings. The best stimulatory effect of BPS was determined at 1% concentration. According to these results, it is possible to say that BP may be used to meet the inorganic element requirements of plants in poor soils and hydroponic systems.
Physiological changes induced by chromium stress in plants: an overview.	This article presents an overview of the mechanism of chromium (Cr) stress in plants. Toxic effects of Cr on plant growth and development depend primarily on its valence state. Cr(VI) is highly toxic and mobile whereas Cr(III) is less toxic. Cr-induced oxidative stress involves induction of lipid peroxidation in plants that cause severe damage to cell membranes which includes degradation of photosynthetic pigments causing deterioration in growth. The potential of plants with the adequacy to accumulate or to stabilize Cr compounds for bioremediation of Cr contamination has gained engrossment in recent years.
bZIP transcription factor OsbZIP52/RISBZ5: a potential negative regulator of cold and drought stress response in rice.	OsbZIP52/RISBZ5 is a member of the basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factor (TF) family in rice (Oryza sativa) isolated from rice (Zhonghua11) panicles. Expression of the OsbZIP52 gene was strongly induced by low temperature (4C) but not by drought, PEG, salt, or ABA. The subcellular localization of OsbZIP52-GFP in onion (Allium cepa) epidermis cells revealed that OsbZIP52 is a nuclear localized protein. A transactivation assay in yeast demonstrated that OsbZIP52 functions as a transcriptional activator and can specifically bind to the G-box promoter motif. In a yeast two-hybrid (Y-2-H) experiment, OsbZIP52 was able to form homodimeric complexes. Rice plants overexpressing OsbZIP52 showed significantly increased sensitivity to cold and drought stress. Real-time PCR analysis revealed that some abiotic stress-related genes, such as OsLEA3, OsTPP1, Rab25, gp1 precursor, -gal, LOC_Os05g11910 and LOC_Os05g39250, were down-regulated in OsbZIP52 overexpression lines. These results suggest that OsbZIP52/RISBZ5 could function as a negative regulator in cold and drought stress environments.
Feedback inhibition by thiols outranks glutathione depletion: a luciferase-based screen reveals glutathione-deficient -ECS and glutathione synthetase mutants impaired in cadmium-induced sulfate assimilation.	Plants exposed to heavy metals rapidly induce changes in gene expression that activate and enhance detoxification mechanisms, including toxic-metal chelation and the scavenging of reactive oxygen species. However, the mechanisms mediating toxic heavy metal-induced gene expression remain largely unknown. To genetically elucidate cadmium-specific transcriptional responses in Arabidopsis, we designed a genetic screen based on the activation of a cadmium-inducible reporter gene. Microarray studies identified a high-affinity sulfate transporter (SULTR1;2) among the most robust and rapid cadmium-inducible transcripts. The SULTR1;2 promoter (2.2kb) was fused with the firefly luciferase reporter gene to quantitatively report the transcriptional response of plants exposed to cadmium. Stably transformed luciferase reporter lines were ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) mutagenized, and stable M(2)  seedlings were screened for an abnormal luciferase response during exposure to cadmium. The screen identified non-allelic mutant lines that fell into one of three categories: (i) super response to cadmium (SRC) mutants; (ii) constitutive response to cadmium (CRC) mutants; or (iii) non-response and reduced response to cadmium (NRC) mutants. Two nrc mutants, nrc1 and nrc2, were mapped, cloned and further characterized. The nrc1 mutation was mapped to the -glutamylcysteine synthetase gene and the nrc2 mutation was identified as the first viable recessive mutant allele in the glutathione synthetase gene. Moreover, genetic, HPLC mass spectrometry, and gene expression analysis of the nrc1 and nrc2 mutants, revealed that intracellular glutathione depletion alone would be insufficient to induce gene expression of sulfate uptake and assimilation mechanisms. Our results modify the glutathione-depletion driven model for sulfate assimilation gene induction during cadmium stress, and suggest that an enhanced oxidative state and depletion of upstream thiols, in addition to glutathione depletion, are necessary to induce the transcription of sulfate assimilation genes during early cadmium stress.
Phytotoxicity of low-weight carboxylic acids.	Presence of low-weight carboxylic acids (LWCAs) can be the reason for phytotoxicity of green manures, treated bio-waste or digestates from biogas production applied to soils. As the phytotoxic concentrations of LWCA are poorly known, this work presents data on six acids (C(1)C(6): formic, acetic, propionic, butyric, valeric, and caproic). Phytotoxicity was measured in acute (72 or 120 h) and subchronic (21 d) assays for seed germination, seedling elongation, and plant growth for garden cress Lepidium sativum and ryegrass Lolium multiflorum. The dose-response relationship was modeled using Weibull model. Results showed a trend that toxicity of LWCA increases with the length of the carbon chain, formic acid (C(1)) being the least and caproic acid (C(6)) the most toxic. EC50 values in the acute seed germination of cress ranged between 1.9 and 4.2mM and for ryegrass between 1.8 and 6.4mM. In subchronic assays EC50 values for germination were in a range from 11 to 46mMkg(-1)dm for cress, and from 18 to 127 mM kg(-1) dm for ryegrass. EC50 values for early seedling growth of cress based on acute assays ranged from 0.7 to 2.3mM and that of ryegrass from 1.2 to 1.8mM. Range of EC50 values for shoot biomass of cress was between 8 and 40 mM kg(-1) dm and of ryegrass between 12 and 93 mM kg(-1) dm.
Dynamic antagonism between phytochromes and PIF family basic helix-loop-helix factors induces selective reciprocal responses to light and shade in a rapidly responsive transcriptional network in Arabidopsis.	Plants respond to shade-modulated light signals via phytochrome (phy)-induced adaptive changes, termed shade avoidance. To examine the roles of Phytochrome-Interacting basic helix-loop-helix Factors, PIF1, 3, 4, and 5, in relaying such signals to the transcriptional network, we compared the shade-responsive transcriptome profiles of wild-type and quadruple pif (pifq) mutants. We identify a subset of genes, enriched in transcription factor-encoding loci, that respond rapidly to shade, in a PIF-dependent manner, and contain promoter G-box motifs, known to bind PIFs. These genes are potential direct targets of phy-PIF signaling that regulate the primary downstream transcriptional circuitry. A second subset of PIF-dependent, early response genes, lacking G-box motifs, are enriched for auxin-responsive loci, and are thus potentially indirect targets of phy-PIF signaling, mediating the rapid cell expansion induced by shade. Comparing deetiolation- and shade-responsive transcriptomes identifies another subset of G-box-containing genes that reciprocally display rapid repression and induction in response to light and shade signals. These data define a core set of transcriptional and hormonal processes that appear to be dynamically poised to react rapidly to light-environment changes via perturbations in the mutually antagonistic actions of the phys and PIFs. Comparing the responsiveness of the pifq and triple pif mutants to light and shade confirms that the PIFs act with overlapping redundancy on seedling morphogenesis and transcriptional regulation but that each PIF contributes differentially to these responses.
Surveying of pollen-mediated crop-to-crop gene flow from a wheat field trial as a biosafety measure.	Outcrosses from genetically modified (GM) to conventional crops by pollen-mediated gene flow (PMGF) are a concern when growing GM crops close to non-GM fields. This also applies to the experimental releases of GM plants in field trials. Therefore, biosafety measures such as isolation distances and surveying of PMGF are required by the regulatory authorities in Switzerland. For two and three years, respectively, we monitored crop-to-crop PMGF from GM wheat field trials in two locations in Switzerland. The pollen donors were two GM spring wheat lines with enhanced fungal resistance and a herbicide tolerance as a selection marker. Seeds from the experimental plots were sampled to test the detection method for outcrosses. Two outcrosses were found adjacent to a transgenic plot within the experimental area. For the survey of PMGF, pollen receptor plots of the conventional wheat variety Frisal used for transformation were planted in the border crop and around the experimental field up to a distance of 200 m. Although the environmental conditions were favorable and the donor and receptor plots flowered at the same time, only three outcrosses were found in approximately 185,000 tested seedlings from seeds collected outside the experimental area. All three hybrids were found in the border crop surrounding the experimental area, but none outside the field. We conclude that a pollen barrier (border crop) and an additional isolation distance of 5 m is a sufficient measure to reduce PMGF from a GM wheat field trial to cleistogamous varieties in commercial fields below a level that can be detected.
Phytoremediation and phytosensing of chemical contaminant, toluene: identification of the required target genes.	As an industrial chemical produced worldwide in high volumes, toluene is commonly detected in ambient air and water. It can combine with oxygen and form compounds that are harmful to humans. In recent years, phytoremediation has been increasingly applied to repair the environmental damage caused by pollutants. However, insufficient knowledge is available regarding the response of plants to toluene. To detect the potential genes in plants that are related to the sensing mechanism and metabolism of toluene, a microarray analysis has been conducted on Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings grown on toluene-containing media. Following the validation of data and the application of appropriate selection criteria, the results show a coordinated induction and suppression of 202 and 67 toluene-responsive genes, respectively. Within the functional class "metabolism", the genes encoding detoxification proteins represent the most strongly up-regulated group. These include genes encoding cytochrome P450s, glucosyl transferases, and transporters. Subsequently, the toluene-induced genes of Arabidopsis are analyzed in detail.
Phytoavailability and geospeciation of cadmium in contaminated soil remediated by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A microorganism was isolated from oil field injection water and identified as Rhodobacter sphaeroides. It was used for the remediation of simulated cadmium-contaminated soil. The phytoavailability of Cd was investigated through wheat seedling method to determine the efficiency of remediation. It was found that after remediation, the accumulation of Cd in wheat roots and leaves decreased by 67% and 53%, respectively. The Cd speciation in soil was determined with Tessier extraction procedure. It was found that the total Cd content in soil did not change during the experiments, but the geo-speciation of Cd changed remarkably. Among the five fractions, the concentration of exchangeable phases decreased by 27-46% and that of the phases bound to Fe-Mn oxides increased by 22-44%. The decrease of Cd accumulation in wheat showed significant positive correlation with the decrease of exchangeable phases. It could be concluded that the remediation of R. sphaeroides was carried out through the conversion of Cd to more stable forms. The decrease of sulfate concentration in supernatant indicated that the R. sphaeroides consumed sulfate.
Proteomic study of -aminobutyric acid-mediated cadmium stress alleviation in soybean.	The present study highlights the protective role of -aminobutyric acid (BABA) in alleviating cadmium (Cd) stress in soybean. Proteomic analyses revealed that out of 66 differentially abundant protein spots in response to Cd challenge, 17 were common in the leaves of BABA-primed and non-primed plants. Oxygen-evolving enhancer protein 1 and ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase small chain 1 were detected in increase abundance in both groups of leaves. Among the 15 commonly decreased protein spots, the relative intensity levels of heat shock cognate 70-kDa protein, carbonic anhydrase, methionine synthase, and glycine dehydrogenase were partially restored after BABA treatment. Moreover, BABA priming significantly enhanced the abundance of the defense-related protein peroxiredoxin and glycolytic enzymes in response to Cd exposure. Additionally, the impact of Cd on the physiological state of BABA-primed and non-primed plants was analyzed using a biophoton technique. The finding of comparatively low biophoton emission in BABA-primed leaves under Cd stress indicates that these plants experienced less oxidative damage than that of non-primed plants. Proteomic study coupled with biophoton analysis reveals that BABA pretreatment helps the plants to combat Cd stress by modulating plants' defence mechanism as well as activating cellular detoxification system to protect the cells from Cd induced oxidative stress damages.
Mineral nutrient imbalance, DNA lesion and DNA-protein crosslink involved in growth retardation of Vicia faba L. seedlings exposed to lanthanum ions.	Effects of mineral nutrient imbalance, DNA lesion and DNA-protein crosslink on growth of Vicia faba L. seedlings hydroponically cultivated in concentrations of extraneous lanthanum (La) for 20 days were investigated in the present experiment. The results showed that contents of La, Cu or K elements in roots generally changed synchronously with those in leaves, while Ca, Fe, Zn, Mg, Mn or P in the roots altered inversely to those in the leaves. Thus, the extraneous La led to redistribution and imbalance of mineral nutrient elements in the roots and leaves. DNA lesion and DNA-protein crosslink were investigated by single cell gel electrophoresis (SCGE) and sodium dodecyl sulfate/potassium (SDS/K+) precipitation methods, respectively. The results demonstrated that the increasing La induced DNA break and DNA-protein crosslinks (DPCs) in the seedlings. These results suggested that mineral nutrient imbalance, DNA lesion and DNA-protein crosslink were involved in the growth retardation and growth alteration of the seedlings, which may help to understand the mechanisms of rare earth elements (REEs) on plant growth.
Novel cytokinin derivatives do not show negative effects on root growth and proliferation in submicromolar range.	When applied to a nutrition solution or agar media, the non-substituted aromatic cytokinins caused thickening and shortening of the primary root, had an inhibitory effect on lateral root branching, and even showed some negative effects on development of the aerial part at as low as a 10 nanomolar concentration. Novel analogues of aromatic cytokinins ranking among topolins substituted on N9-atom of adenine by tetrahydropyranyl or 4-chlorobutyl group have been prepared and tested in standardized cytokinin bioassays [1]. Those showing comparable activities with N(6)-benzylaminopurine were further tested in planta.
Effect of exogenous carbon monoxide donor hematin on seed germination and physiological characteristics of Cassia obtusifolia seedlings under NaCl stress]	In order to get the method to improve the salt resistance of seeds and seedlings for Cassia obtusbifolia under NaCl stress, seed germination and physiological characteristics of C. obtusifolia seedlings were studied.
The effect of titanium amendment in N-withholding nutrient solution on physiological and photosynthesis attributes and micronutrient uptake of tomato.	Titanium (Ti) is a beneficial element that promotes growth and biomass production although the mechanism by which this improvement takes place is still unclear, as are other effects on plants, although it is believed that Ti can compensate for N deficiency. To prove this hypothesis, a hydroponic experiment was designed to investigate the effect of adding Ti to a nutrient solution on the nutrient uptake of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum L.) by withholding N within the nutrient solution (NS) by 25 % (NS2) and by 50 % (NS1). Ti was added at 1 and 2 mg L. When Ti was added to nutrient solution, the elemental concentration in tomato changed significantly: K, Ca, Fe, and Zn decreased while Ti increased. As the concentration of N in nutrient solution decreased, the Ca and Ti concentration of tomato leaves decreased and the K, Mn, Fe, Cu, and Zn concentration increased. As the N concentration in nutrient solution increased, the Ca concentration decreased although the application of Ti compensated for Ca concentration in NS1. All the photosynthetic attributes and physiological characteristics, including flower induction, decreased when the N concentration of NS decreased by 50 %, although this decrease could be compensated by applying 1 mg L Ti. This has valuable and practical applications and implications for tomato hydroponic culture.
Naringenin inhibits seed germination and seedling root growth through a salicylic acid-independent mechanism in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Flavonoids fulfill an enormous range of biological functions in plants. In seeds, these compounds play several roles; for instance proanthocyanidins protect them from moisture, pathogen attacks, mechanical stress, UV radiation, etc., and flavonols have been suggested to protect the embryo from oxidative stress. The present study aimed at determining the role of flavonoids in Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) seed germination, and the involvement of salicylic acid (SA) and auxin (indole-3-acetic acid), two phytohormones with the same biosynthetic origin as flavonoids, the shikimate pathway, in such a putative role. We show that naringenin, a flavanone, strongly inhibits the germination of A. thaliana seeds in a dose-dependent and SA-independent manner. Altered auxin levels do not affect seed germination in Arabidopsis, but impaired auxin transport does, although to a minor extent. Naringenin and N-1-naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA) impair auxin transport through the same mechanisms, so the inhibition of germination by naringenin might involve impaired auxin transport among other mechanisms. From the present study it is concluded that naringenin inhibits the germination of Arabidopsis seeds in a dose-dependent and SA-independent manner, and the results also suggest that such effects are exerted, at least to some extent, through impaired auxin transport, although additional mechanisms seem to operate as well.
Exogenous  abscisic acid increases antioxidant enzymes and related gene expression in  pepper (Capsicum annuum) leaves subjected to chilling stress.	To elucidate how physiological and biochemical mechanisms of chilling stress are regulated by abscisic acid (ABA) pretreatment, pepper variety (cv. 'P70') seedlings were pretreated with 0.57 mM ABA for 72 h and then subjected to chilling stress at 10/6C (day/night). Chilling stress caused severe necrotic lesions on the leaves and increased malondialdehyde and H(2)O(2) levels. Activities of monodehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR), dehydroascorbate reductase, glutathione reductase, guaiacol peroxidase, ascorbate peroxidase, ascorbate, and glutathione increased due to chilling stress during the 72 h, while superoxide dismutase and catalase activities decreased during 24 h, suggesting that chilling stress activates the AsA-GSH cycle under catalase deactivation in pepper leaves. ABA pretreatment induced significant increases in the above-mentioned enzyme activities and progressive decreases in ascorbate and glutathione levels. On the other hand, ABA-pretreated seedlings under chilling stress increased superoxide dismutase and guaiacol peroxidase activities and lowered concentrations of other antioxidants compared with untreated chilling-stressed plants. These seedlings showed concomitant decreases in foliage damage symptoms, and levels of malondialdehyde and H(2)O(2). Induction of Mn-SOD and POD was observed in chilling-stressed plants treated with ABA. The expression of DHAR1 and DHAR2 was altered by chilling stress, but it was higher in the presence than in the absence of ABA at 24 h. Overall, the results indicate that exogenous application of ABA increases tolerance of plants to chilling-induced oxidative damage, mainly by enhancing superoxide dismutase and guaiacol peroxidase activities and related gene expression.
Proteomics reveals the effects of salicylic acid on growth and tolerance to subsequent drought stress in wheat.	Pretreatment with 0.5 mM salicylic acid (SA) for 3 days significantly enhanced the growth and tolerance to subsequent drought stress (PEG-6000, 15%) in wheat seedlings, manifesting as increased shoot and root dry weights, and decreased lipid peroxidation. Total proteins from wheat leaves exposed to (i) 0.5 mM SA pretreatment, (ii) drought stress, and (iii) 0.5 mM SA treatment plus drought-stress treatments were analyzed using a proteomics method. Eighty-two stress-responsive protein spots showed significant changes, of which 76 were successfully identified by MALDI-TOF-TOF. Analysis of protein expression patterns revealed that proteins associated with signal transduction, stress defense, photosynthesis, carbohydrate metabolism, protein metabolism, and energy production could by involved in SA-induced growth and drought tolerance in wheat seedlings. Furthermore, the SA-responsive protein interaction network revealed 35 key proteins, suggesting that these proteins are critical for SA-induced tolerance.
Phytotoxicity of multi-walled carbon nanotubes on red spinach (Amaranthus tricolor L) and the role of ascorbic acid as an antioxidant.	Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) are a novel nanomaterial with wide potential applications; however the adverse effects of CNTs following environmental exposure have recently received significant attention. Herein, we explore the systemic toxicity and potential influence of 0-1000 mg L(-1) the multi-walled CNTs on red spinach. The multi-walled CNTs exposed plants exhibited growth inhibition and cell death after 15 days of hydroponic culture. The multi-walled CNTs had adverse effects on root and leaf morphology, as observed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Raman spectroscopy detected the multi-walled CNTs in leaves. Biomarkers of nanoparticle toxicity, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and cell damage in the red spinach were greatly increased 15 days post-exposure to the multi-walled CNTs. These effects were reversed when the multi-walled CNTs were supplemented with ascorbic acid (AsA), suggesting a role of ROS in the multi-walled CNT-induced toxicity and that the primary mechanism of the multi-walled CNTs' toxicity is oxidative stress.
Induced resistance by a long-chain bacterial volatile: elicitation of plant systemic defense by a C13 volatile produced by Paenibacillus polymyxa.	Some strains of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) elicit induced systemic resistance (ISR) by emission of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) including short chain alcohols, acetoin, and 2,3-butanediol. The objective of this study was to evaluate whether species-specific VOCs from PGPR strain Paenibacillus polymyxa E681 can promote growth and induce resistance in Arabidopsis.
Different expression of miRNAs targeting helicases in rice in response to low and high dose rate -ray treatments.	Ionizing radiation currently represents an important tool to generate genetic variability that does not exist in nature, especially in plants. Even so, the radiological protection still represents a subject of regulatory concern. In plants, few reports dealing with the effects of -rays, in terms of dose rate (rate of energy deposition) and total dose (energy absorbed per unit mass), are available. In addition, plants are known to be more radioresistant than animals. The use of ionizing radiations for studying various aspects of transcription regulation may help elucidate some of the unanswered questions regarding DNA repair in plants. Under these premises, microRNAs have emerged as molecules involved in gene regulation in response to various environmental conditions as well as in other aspects of plant development. Currently, no report on the changes in microRNAs expression patterns in response to -ray treatments exists in plants, even if this subject is extensively studies in human cells. The present study deals with the expression profiles of three miRNAs, namely osa-miR414, osa-miR164e and osa-miR408 and their targeted helicase genes (OsABP, OsDBH and OsDSHCT) in response to different doses of -rays delivered both at low and high dose rates. The irradiated rice seeds were grown both in the presence of water and 100 mM NaCl solution. DNA damage and reactive species accumulation were registered, but no dose- or time-dependent expression was observed in response to these treatments.
Disruption of fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase causes spontaneous cell death under short-day conditions in Arabidopsis.	Fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase (FAH) hydrolyzes fumarylacetoacetate to fumarate and acetoacetate, the final step in the tyrosine (Tyr) degradation pathway that is essential to animals. Deficiency of FAH in animals results in an inborn lethal disorder. However, the role for the Tyr degradation pathway in plants remains to be elucidated. In this study, we isolated an Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) short-day sensitive cell death1 (sscd1) mutant that displays a spontaneous cell death phenotype under short-day conditions. The SSCD1 gene was cloned via a map-based cloning approach and found to encode an Arabidopsis putative FAH. The spontaneous cell death phenotype of the sscd1 mutant was completely eliminated by further knockout of the gene encoding the putative homogentisate dioxygenase, which catalyzes homogentisate into maleylacetoacetate (the antepenultimate step) in the Tyr degradation pathway. Furthermore, treatment of Arabidopsis wild-type seedlings with succinylacetone, an abnormal metabolite caused by loss of FAH in the Tyr degradation pathway, mimicked the sscd1 cell death phenotype. These results demonstrate that disruption of FAH leads to cell death in Arabidopsis and suggest that the Tyr degradation pathway is essential for plant survival under short-day conditions. 
Boron excess affects photosynthesis and antioxidant apparatus of greenhouse Cucurbita pepo and Cucumis sativus.	This study aimed to evaluate the behavior of zucchini (Cucurbita pepo L.) and cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) under boron (B) excess. Plants were grown under greenhouse conditions in a sandy soil-peat mixture using a nutrient solution containing 0.2 (control), 10 and 20mgL(-1) B. Visible symptoms were quantified and leaf B accumulation, gas exchanges, chlorophyll (Chl) a fluorescence, malondialdehyde by-products and antioxidants were investigated 20days after the beginning of the treatments. Boron toxicity induced oxidative load and leaf necrotic burns coupled with the reduction of leaf growth and biomass accumulation in both species. Boron excess resulted in a decrease of Chl a/b ratio, potential (Fv/Fm) and actual (PSII) PSII quantum efficiency, photosynthetic rate (Pn), stomatal conductance (gs), and transpiration (E) as well. A general stimulation of the antioxidant enzymes ascorbate peroxidase, catalase and superoxide dismutase was observed, and a significant increase in the oxidized form of ascorbate and glutathione was evidenced for treated plants of both species. A difference between the two species was observed: C. pepo appeared to be more sensitive to B stress being damaged at all B concentration. C. sativus grown at 10mgL(-1) B in nutrient solution showed some down-regulated mechanisms, i.e. increase in Chl b content and a good photochemical PSII efficiency as well as a higher amount of constitutive antioxidant molecules, that, however, are not sufficient to contrast the negative effects of B. 
Several MAMPs, including chitin fragments, enhance AtPep-triggered oxidative burst independently of wounding.	AtPeps are a family of small peptides in Arabidopsis that are believed to act as endogenous amplifiers of the plant's innate immune response. In our recent study, (10) we showed that in Arabidopsis leaf disks, bacterial MAMPs (microbe-associated molecular patterns) such as the flagellin derived elicitor flg22, greatly enhanced the release of reactive oxygen species (ROS) triggered by a subsequent AtPep-perception. This enhanced ROS production could be a hallmark either of improved local defense or of the initiation of ROS-based systemic signaling. Here, we established a superior ROS detection system based on a new derivative of luminol (L-012). With this sensitive system we were able to show that chitin, too, acts as an enhancer of AtPep-triggered ROS, linking this specific defense response amplification also to the recognition of fungal pathogens. In addition we used the more sensitive ROS assay to transfer the experimental setup from cut leaf disks to unwounded seedlings. Thereby we revealed that wounding is not a prerequisite to enable the MAMP-induced enhancement of the AtPep-triggered ROS response. 
A suite of new genes defining salinity stress tolerance in seedlings of contrasting rice genotypes.	Salinity is one of the major constraints adversely influencing crop productivity. Saltol QTL is a major QTL associated with Na-K ratio and seedling stage salinity tolerance in rice. With an aim to understand the contribution of individual genes localized within saltol towards salinity tolerance, we analysed the transcript abundance of a set of these genes in seedlings of contrasting genotypes of rice. We hypothesize that this approach may be helpful in identifying new 'candidate genes' for improving salinity tolerance in crops. For this purpose, seedlings of Oryza sativa cv. IR64 (sensitive) and the landrace Pokkali (tolerant) were subjected to short/long durations of salinity. qRT-PCR analysis clearly exhibited differential regulation of genes encoding signaling related protein (SRPs), where higher transcript abundance for most of them was observed in Pokkali than IR64 under non-stress conditions, thereby indicating towards well preparedness of the former to handle stress, in anticipation. Genes encoding proteins of unknown function (PUFs), though, constitute a considerable portion of plant genome, have so far been neglected in most studies. Time course analysis of these genes showed a continuous increase in their abundance in Pokkali, while in IR64, their abundance increased till 24 h followed by a clear decrease, thereby justifying their nomenclature as 'salinity induced factors' (SIFs). This is the first report showing possible involvement of SIFs localized within salinity related QTL towards salinity stress response. Based on the phenotypes of insertional mutants, it is proposed that these SIFs may have a putative function in vegetative growth (SIFVG), fertility (SIFF), viability (SIFV) or early flowering (SIFEF).
The effects of dopamine on root growth and enzyme activity in soybean seedlings.	In the present study, we investigated the effects of dopamine, an allelochemical exuded from the velvetbean (Mucuna pruriens L DC. var utilis), on the growth and cell viability of soybean (Glycine max L. Merrill) roots. We analyzed the effects of dopamine on superoxide dismutase, phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and cell wall-bound peroxidase activities as well as its effects on lignin contents in the roots. Three-day-old seedlings were cultivated in half-strength Hoagland nutrient solution (pH 6.0), without or with 0.25 to 1.0 mM dopamine, in a growth chamber (25C, 12L:12D photoperiod, irradiance of 280 mol m(-2) s(-1)) for 24 h. In general, the length, fresh weight and dry weight of roots, cell viability, PAL and POD activities decreased, while SOD activities increased after dopamine treatment. The content of lignin was not altered. The data demonstrate the susceptibility of soybean to dopamine and reinforce the role of this catecholamine as a strong allelochemical. The results also suggest that dopamine-induced inhibition in soybean roots is not related to the production of lignin, but may be related to damage caused by reactive oxygen species.
Phytotoxicity and oxidative stress effect of 1-octyl-3-methylimidazolium chloride ionic liquid on rice seedlings.	The effects of the ionic liquid 1-octyl-3-methylimidazolium chloride ([OMIM]Cl) was studied in hydroponically grown rice seedlings. Observed effects included increased root length and weight at concentrations of 0.1 mg/L [OMIM]Cl, however, as concentrations increased a reversed response was observed where roots and stems grew shorter and the weight decreased. The inhibitory concentration 50 (IC50,5d) values for root length and stem length were 0.59 mg/L and 0.70 mg/L, respectively. The Hill reaction activity and root system activity in [OMIM]Cl-treated rice seedlings were observed to be lower than the controls, however, root membrane permeability increased. The antioxidant enzyme activity in roots decreased, while in leaves there was an initial stimulation followed by a decrease. Malondialdehyde (MDA) content was found to be greater in seedlings subjected to [OMIM]Cl treatment. The cellular structures, such as chloroplasts, mitochondria and rough endoplasmic reticulum in rice root and leaf cells were affected at concentrations of 0.6 mg/L [OMIM]Cl.
Modified expression of an auxin-responsive rice CC-type glutaredoxin gene affects multiple abiotic stress responses.	Glutaredoxins (GRXs) are the ubiquitous oxidoreductase enzymes, which play an important role in defense against various stresses. Here, we report the role of a CC-type GRX gene from rice, OsGRX8, in abiotic stress tolerance. OsGRX8 protein was found to be localized in nucleus and cytosol and its gene expression is induced by various stress conditions and plant hormone auxin. The over-expression of OsGRX8 in Arabidopsis plants conferred reduced sensitivity to auxin and stress hormone, abscisic acid. In addition, the transgenic Arabidopsis plants exhibited enhanced tolerance to various abiotic stresses, including salinity, osmotic and oxidative stress. Further, the transgenic RNAi rice plants exhibited increased susceptibility to various abiotic stresses, which further confirmed the role of OsGRX8 in abiotic stress responses. The microarray data analysis revealed that expression of a large number of auxin-responsive, known stress-associated and transcription factor encoding genes was altered in GRX transgenic Arabidopsis plants in response to exogenous auxin and stress conditions as compared to wild-type plants. Altogether, these findings suggest the role of OsGRX8 in regulating abiotic stress response and may be used to engineer stress tolerance in crop plants. 
Cinnamic acid increases lignin production and inhibits soybean root growth.	Cinnamic acid is a known allelochemical that affects seed germination and plant root growth and therefore influences several metabolic processes. In the present work, we evaluated its effects on growth, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) oxidase and cinnamate 4-hydroxylase (C4H) activities and lignin monomer composition in soybean (Glycine max) roots. The results revealed that exogenously applied cinnamic acid inhibited root growth and increased IAA oxidase and C4H activities. The allelochemical increased the total lignin content, thus altering the sum and ratios of the p-hydroxyphenyl (H), guaiacyl (G), and syringyl (S) lignin monomers. When applied alone or with cinnamic acid, piperonylic acid (PIP, a quasi-irreversible inhibitor of C4H) reduced C4H activity, lignin and the H, G, S monomer content compared to the cinnamic acid treatment. Taken together, these results indicate that exogenously applied cinnamic acid can be channeled into the phenylpropanoid pathway via the C4H reaction, resulting in an increase in H lignin. In conjunction with enhanced IAA oxidase activity, these metabolic responses lead to the stiffening of the cell wall and are followed by a reduction in soybean root growth. 
Effects of soil water and nitrogen availability on photosynthesis and water use efficiency of Robinia pseudoacacia seedlings.	The efficient use of water and nitrogen (N) to promote growth and increase yield of fruit trees and crops is well studied. However, little is known about their effects on woody plants growing in arid and semiarid areas with limited water and N availability. To examine the effects of water and N supply on early growth and water use efficiency (WUE) of trees on dry soils, one-year-old seedlings of Robinia pseudoacacia were exposed to three soil water contents (non-limiting, medium drought, and severe drought) as well as to low and high N levels, for four months. Photosynthetic parameters, leaf instantaneous WUE (WUEi) and whole tree WUE (WUEb) were determined. Results showed that, independent of N levels, increasing soil water content enhanced the tree transpiration rate (Tr), stomatal conductance (Gs), intercellular CO2 concentration (Ci), maximum net assimilation rate (Amax), apparent quantum yield (AQY), the range of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) due to both reduced light compensation point and enhanced light saturation point, and dark respiration rate (Rd), resulting in a higher net photosynthetic rate (Pn) and a significantly increased whole tree biomass. Consequently, WUEi and WUEb were reduced at low N, whereas WUEi was enhanced at high N levels. Irrespective of soil water availability, N supply enhanced Pn in association with an increase of Gs and Ci and a decrease of the stomatal limitation value (Ls), while Tr remained unchanged. Biomass and WUEi increased under non-limiting water conditions and medium drought, as well as WUEb under all water conditions; but under severe drought, WUEi and biomass were not affected by N application. In conclusion, increasing soil water availability improves photosynthetic capacity and biomass accumulation under low and high N levels, but its effects on WUE vary with soil N levels. N supply increased Pn and WUE, but under severe drought, N supply did not enhance WUEi and biomass.
Short term signaling responses in roots of young soybean seedlings exposed to cadmium stress.	In the present study, the expression of fourteen genes involved in various signal transduction pathways was examined in young soybean (Glycine max) seedlings exposed to cadmium at two concentrations (10 mg L(-1) and 25 mg L(-1)) for short time periods (3, 6 and 24 h). The results show that cadmium causes induction of genes encoding proteins involved in ethylene and polyamines metabolism, nitric oxide generation, MAPK cascades and regulation of other genes' expression. The bioinformatic analysis of promoter sequences of Cd-inducible genes revealed that their promoters possess several regulative motifs associated with the plant response to stress factors and abscisic acid and ethylene signaling. The involvement of ethylene in the response of soybean seedlings to cadmium stress was further confirmed by the real-time analysis of ethylene production during 24 h of CdCl2 treatment. The role of the described signaling elements in transduction of the cadmium signal in young soybean seedlings is discussed.
Silencing of TaBTF3 gene impairs tolerance to freezing and drought stresses in wheat.	Basic transcription factor 3 (BTF3), the -subunit of the nascent polypeptide-associated complex, is responsible for the transcriptional initiation of RNA polymerase II and is also involved in cell apoptosis, translation initiation regulation, growth, development, and other functions. Here, we report the impact of BTF3 on abiotic tolerance in higher plants. The transcription levels of the TaBTF3 gene, first isolated from wheat seedlings in our lab, were differentially regulated by diverse abiotic stresses and hormone treatments, including PEG-induced stress (20% polyethylene glycol 6000), cold (4C), salt (100mM NaCl), abscisic acid (100M), methyl jasmonate (50M), and salicylic acid (50M). Southern blot analysis indicated that, in the wheat genome, TaBTF3 is a multi-copy gene. Compared to BSMV-GFP-infected wheat plants (control), under freezing (-8C for 48h) or drought stress (withholding water for 15days) conditions, TaBTF3-silenced wheat plants showed lower survival rates, free proline content, and relative water content and higher relative electrical conductivity and water loss rate. These results suggest that silencing of the TaBTF3 gene may impair tolerance to freezing and drought stresses in wheat and that it may be involved in the response to abiotic stresses in higher plants. 
Process of aerenchyma formation and reactive oxygen species induced by waterlogging in wheat seminal roots.	The development and regulation of aerenchyma in waterlogged conditions were studied in the seminal roots of wheat. Evans blue staining and the first cell death position indicated that the cortical cell death began at the root mid-cortex cells in flooding conditions. Continuous waterlogging treatment caused the spread of cell death from the mid-cortex to the neighboring cells and well-developed aerenchyma was formed after 72 h. Meanwhile, the formation of radial oxygen loss barrier was observed in the exodermis owing to the induction of Casparian bands and lignin deposition. Analysis of aerenchyma along the wheat root revealed that aerenchyma formed at 10 mm from the root tip, significantly increased toward the center of the roots, and decreased toward the basal region of the root. In situ detection of radial oxygen species (ROS) showed that ROS accumulation started in the mid-cortex cells, where cell death began indicating that cell death was probably accompanied by ROS production. Further waterlogging treatments resulted in the accumulation of ROS in the cortical cells, which were the zone for aerenchyma development. Accumulation and distribution of HO at the subcellular level were revealed by ultracytochemical localization, which further verified the involvement of ROS in the cortical cell death process (i.e., aerenchyma formation). Furthermore, gene expression analysis indicated that ROS production might be the result of up-regulation of genes encoding for ROS-producing enzymes and the down-regulation of genes encoding for ROS-detoxifying enzymes. These results suggest that aerenchyma development in wheat roots starts in the mid-cortex cells and its formation is regulated by ROS.
Involvement of microRNA-related regulatory pathways in the glucose-mediated control of Arabidopsis early seedling development.	In plants, sugars such as glucose act as signalling molecules that promote changes in gene expression programmes that impact on growth and development. Recent evidence has revealed the potential importance of controlling mRNA decay in some aspects of glucose-mediated regulatory responses suggesting a role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in these responses. In order to get a better understanding of glucose-mediated development modulation involving miRNA-related regulatory pathways, early seedling development of mutants impaired in miRNA biogenesis (hyl1-2 and dcl1-11) and miRNA activity (ago1-25) was evaluated. All mutants exhibited a glucose hyposensitive phenotype from germination up to seedling establishment, indicating that miRNA regulatory pathways are involved in the glucose-mediated delay of early seedling development. The expression profile of 200 miRNA primary transcripts (pri-miRs) was evaluated by large-scale quantitative real-time PCR profiling, which revealed that 38 pri-miRs were regulated by glucose. For several of them, the corresponding mature miRNAs are known to participate directly or indirectly in plant development, and their accumulation was shown to be co-regulated with the pri-miR by glucose. Furthermore, the expression of several miRNA target genes was found to be deregulated in response to glucose in the miRNA machinery mutants ago1-25, dcl1-11, and hyl1-2. Also, in these mutants, glucose promoted misexpression of genes for the three abscisic acid signalling elements ABI3, ABI4, and ABI5. Thus, miRNA regulatory pathways play a role in the adjustments of growth and development triggered by glucose signalling. 
Early transcriptomic adaptation to NaCO stress altered the expression of a quarter of the total genes in the maize genome and exhibited shared and distinctive profiles with NaCl and high pH stresses.	Sodium carbonate (NaCO) presents a huge challenge to plants by the combined damaging effects of Na, high pH, and CO. Little is known about the cellular responses to NaCO stress. In this study, the transcriptome of maize (Zea mays L. cv. B73) roots exposed to NaCO stress for 5h was compared with those of NaCl and NaOH stresses. The expression of 8,319 genes, representing over a quarter of the total number of genes in the maize genome, was altered by NaCO stress, and the downregulated genes (5,232) outnumbered the upregulated genes (3,087). The effects of NaCO differed from those of NaCl and NaOH, primarily by downregulating different categories of genes. Pathways commonly altered by NaCO, NaCl, and NaOH were enriched in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, oxidation of unsaturated fatty acids, ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters, as well as the metabolism of secondary metabolites. Genes for brassinosteroid biosynthesis were specifically upregulated by NaCO, while genes involved in ascorbate and aldarate metabolism, protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum and by N-glycosylation, fatty acid biosynthesis, and the circadian rhythm were downregulated. This work provides the first holistic picture of early transcriptomic adaptation to NaCO stress, and highlights potential molecular pathways that could be manipulated to improve tolerance in maize.
Alternative mechanism for the evaluation of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) production by Azospirillum brasilense strains and its effects on the germination and growth of maize seedlings.	We evaluated the production of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) by Azospirillum brasilense strains in vitro (cell culture supernatants) and in vivo (stems and roots of maize seedlings) to clarify the role of this phytohormone as a signaling and effector molecule in the symbiotic interaction between maize and A. brasilense. The three strains all showed IAA production when cultured in NFb medium supplemented with 100 g/ml L-tryptophan. The level of IAA production was 41.5 g/ml for Yu62, 12.9 g/ml for Az39, and 0.15 g/ml for ipdC-. The release of IAA into culture medium by the bacteria appeared to be the main activator of the early growth promotion observed in the inoculated maize seedlings. The application of supernatants with different IAA contents caused significant differences in the seedling growth. This observation provides the basis for novel technological tools for effective quality control procedures on inoculants. The approach described can be incorporated into different inoculation methods, including line sowing, downspout, and foliar techniques, and increase the sustainability of symbiotic plant-bacteria systems. 
The membrane-bound NAC transcription factor ANAC013 functions in mitochondrial retrograde regulation of the oxidative stress response in Arabidopsis.	Upon disturbance of their function by stress, mitochondria can signal to the nucleus to steer the expression of responsive genes. This mitochondria-to-nucleus communication is often referred to as mitochondrial retrograde regulation (MRR). Although reactive oxygen species and calcium are likely candidate signaling molecules for MRR, the protein signaling components in plants remain largely unknown. Through meta-analysis of transcriptome data, we detected a set of genes that are common and robust targets of MRR and used them as a bait to identify its transcriptional regulators. In the upstream regions of these mitochondrial dysfunction stimulon (MDS) genes, we found a cis-regulatory element, the mitochondrial dysfunction motif (MDM), which is necessary and sufficient for gene expression under various mitochondrial perturbation conditions. Yeast one-hybrid analysis and electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed that the transmembrane domain-containing no apical meristem/Arabidopsis transcription activation factor/cup-shaped cotyledon transcription factors (ANAC013, ANAC016, ANAC017, ANAC053, and ANAC078) bound to the MDM cis-regulatory element. We demonstrate that ANAC013 mediates MRR-induced expression of the MDS genes by direct interaction with the MDM cis-regulatory element and triggers increased oxidative stress tolerance. In conclusion, we characterized ANAC013 as a regulator of MRR upon stress in Arabidopsis thaliana.
Histone deacetylase complex1 expression level titrates plant growth and abscisic acid sensitivity in Arabidopsis.	Histone deacetylation regulates gene expression during plant stress responses and is therefore an interesting target for epigenetic manipulation of stress sensitivity in plants. Unfortunately, overexpression of the core enzymes (histone deacetylases [HDACs]) has either been ineffective or has caused pleiotropic morphological abnormalities. In yeast and mammals, HDACs operate within multiprotein complexes. Searching for putative components of plant HDAC complexes, we identified a gene with partial homology to a functionally uncharacterized member of the yeast complex, which we called Histone Deacetylation Complex1 (HDC1). HDC1 is encoded by a single-copy gene in the genomes of model plants and crops and therefore presents an attractive target for biotechnology. Here, we present a functional characterization of HDC1 in Arabidopsis thaliana. We show that HDC1 is a ubiquitously expressed nuclear protein that interacts with at least two deacetylases (HDA6 and HDA19), promotes histone deacetylation, and attenuates derepression of genes under water stress. The fast-growing HDC1-overexpressing plants outperformed wild-type plants not only on well-watered soil but also when water supply was reduced. Our findings identify HDC1 as a rate-limiting component of the histone deacetylation machinery and as an attractive tool for increasing germination rate and biomass production of plants. 
Proteome and metabolome profiling of cytokinin action in Arabidopsis identifying both distinct and similar responses to cytokinin down- and up-regulation.	In plants, numerous developmental processes are controlled by cytokinin (CK) levels and their ratios to levels of other hormones. While molecular mechanisms underlying the regulatory roles of CKs have been intensely researched, proteomic and metabolomic responses to CK deficiency are unknown. Transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings carrying inducible barley cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase (CaMV35S>GR>HvCKX2) and agrobacterial isopentenyl transferase (CaMV35S>GR>ipt) constructs were profiled to elucidate proteome- and metabolome-wide responses to down- and up-regulation of CK levels, respectively. Proteome profiling identified >1100 proteins, 155 of which responded to HvCKX2 and/or ipt activation, mostly involved in growth, development, and/or hormone and light signalling. The metabolome profiling covered 79 metabolites, 33 of which responded to HvCKX2 and/or ipt activation, mostly amino acids, carbohydrates, and organic acids. Comparison of the data sets obtained from activated CaMV35S>GR>HvCKX2 and CaMV35S>GR>ipt plants revealed unexpectedly extensive overlaps. Integration of the proteomic and metabolomic data sets revealed: (i) novel components of molecular circuits involved in CK action (e.g. ribosomal proteins); (ii) previously unrecognized links to redox regulation and stress hormone signalling networks; and (iii) CK content markers. The striking overlaps in profiles observed in CK-deficient and CK-overproducing seedlings might explain surprising previously reported similarities between plants with down- and up-regulated CK levels. 
Plant growth enhancement and associated physiological responses are coregulated by ethylene and gibberellin in response to harpin protein Hpa1.	The harpin protein Hpa1 produced by the bacterial blight pathogen of rice induces several growth-promoting responses in plants, activating the ethylene signaling pathway, increasing photosynthesis rates and EXPANSIN (EXP) gene expression levels, and thereby enhancing the vegetative growth. This study was attempted to analyze any mechanistic connections among the above and the role of gibberellin in these responses. Hpa1-induced growth enhancement was evaluated in Arabidopsis, tomato, and rice. And growth-promoting responses were determined mainly as an increase of chlorophyll a/b ratio, which indicates a potential elevation of photosynthesis rates, and enhancements of photosynthesis and EXP expression in the three plant species. In Arabidopsis, Hpa1-induced growth-promoting responses were partially compromised by a defect in ethylene perception or gibberellin biosynthesis. In tomato and rice, compromises of Hpa1-induced growth-promoting responses were caused by a pharmacological treatment with an ethylene perception inhibitor or a gibberellin biosynthesis inhibitor. In the three plant species, moreover, Hpa1-induced growth-promoting responses were significantly impaired, but not totally eliminated, by abolishing ethylene perception or gibberellin synthesis. However, simultaneous nullifications in both ethylene perception and gibberellin biosynthesis almost canceled the full effects of Hpa1 on plant growth, photosynthesis, and EXP2 expression. Theses results suggest that ethylene and gibberellin coregulate Hpa1-induced plant growth enhancement and associated physiological and molecular responses. 
Seedling development and evaluation of genetic stability of cryopreserved Dendrobium hybrid mature seeds.	Vitrification, a simple, fast, and recommended cryopreservation method for orchid germplasm conservation, was evaluated for Dendrobium hybrid "Dong Yai" mature seeds. The genetic stability of regenerated seedlings was also evaluated using flow cytometry. Mature seeds from this hybrid were submitted to plant vitrification solution (PVS2) for 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 h at 0 C. Subsequently, they were plunged into liquid nitrogen (LN) at -196 C for 1 h and recovered in half-strength Murashige and Skoog culture medium (1/2 MS), and seed germination was evaluated after 30 days. Seeds directly submitted to LN did not germinate after cryopreservation. Seeds treated with PVS2 between 1 and 3 h presented the best germination (between 51 and 58%), although longer exposure to PVS2 returned moderated germination (39%). Germinated seeds were further subcultured in P-723 culture medium and developed whole seedlings in vitro after 180 days, with no abnormal characteristics, diseases, or nutritional deficiencies. Seedlings were successfully acclimatized under greenhouse conditions with over 80% survival. Flow cytometry analysis revealed no chromosomal changes on vitrified seedlings, as well as seedlings germinated from the control treatment (direct exposure to LN). These findings indicate that vitrification is a feasible and safe germplasm cryopreservation method for commercial Dendrobium orchid hybrid conservation.
Anatomical and biochemical characteristics of Achnatherum splendens (Trin.) Nevski seedlings stressed on Pb2+.	Lead is a heavy metal that usually accumulates in the environment as a hazardous pollutant. Achnatherum splendens (Trin.) Nevski seedlings facilitate the purification and disposal of urban and industrial sewage; however, the detailed mechanism of this phytoremediation is still unknown. In the present study, we investigated the effect of lead (Pb(2+)) stress on the anatomical and biochemical characteristics in A. splendens seedlings using microscopy and proteomic analysis. Our results showed that starch grains accumulate in the cell as the concentration of Pb(2+) increases. Several organelles such as the nucleus, mitochondria, and chloroplasts were found to be damaged as a result of Pb(2+) stress. However, the cell wall and the vacuole compartmentalization could reduce the heavy metal poison. The number of total proteins decreased as Pb(2+) concentration increased. Furthermore, the low molecular weight protein played an important role in resistance to heavy metal Pb(2+) stress. Peroxidase (POD) and amylase activities were still high at concentrations of 200 and 160 mg L(-1) Pb(2+), respectively. The ATPase activity was in the top peak at a concentration of 80-160 mg L(-1) Pb(2+). Thus, these three enzymes were involved in resistance against Pb(2+) stress. The content of proline increased with the increased concentration of Pb(2+). Malondialdehyde (MDA) and soluble sugar peaked at concentrations of 160 and 80 mg L(-1) Pb(2+), respectively. Our results indicated that the last three organic compounds were involved in resistance against Pb(2+) stress.
Impacts of major cations (K(+), Na (+), Ca (2+), Mg (2+)) and protons on toxicity predictions of nickel and cadmium to lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) using exposure models.	Biotic ligand models (BLM) explicitly accounting for hypothetical interactions with biotic ligands and bioavailability as dictated by water chemistry have been developed for various metals and different organisms. It is only recently that BLMs for plants have received increasing attention. Lettuce is one of the most important vegetable crops in the world. This study investigated the impacts of Ca(2+), Mg(2+), K(+), Na(+) and pH, on acute toxicity of Ni and Cd to butter-head lettuce seedlings (Lactuca sativa L.). 4-day assays with the root elongation inhibition (REI) as the endpoint were performed in hydroponic solutions. Magnesium was found to be the sole cation significantly enhancing the median inhibition concentration (IC50) of Ni(2+) with increasing concentration. By incorporating the competitive effects of Mg(2+), the Ni-toxicity prediction was improved significantly as compared to the total metal model (TMM) and the free ion activity model (FIAM). The conditional stability constants derived from the Ni-BLM were log K MgBL=2.86, log K NiBL=5.1, and f NiBL (50%) =0.57. A slight downtrend was observed in the 4-d IC50 of Cd(2+) at increasing H(+) concentrations, but this tendency was not consistent and statistically significant (p=0.07) over the whole range. The overall variations of Cd-toxicity within the tested Na(+), K(+), Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) concentration ranges were relatively small and not statistically significant. 80% of lettuce REI by Cd could be explained using both TMM and FIAM instead of BLM in the present study. Thus, the mechanistically underpinned models for soil quality guidelines should be developed on a metal-specific basis across different exposure conditions. 
Differential effects of aluminum on in vitro primary root growth, nutrient content and phospholipase C activity in coffee seedlings (Coffea arabica).	Coffea arabica is a woody species that grows in acid soils, where aluminum is available and may affect growth and productivity. To determine the effect of aluminum on primary root growth of C. arabica cv. Typica, seedlings were exposed over 30 days to different concentrations of AlCl3 (0, 100, 300 and 500 M) in vitro. The aluminum effect on primary root growth was dose-dependent: low aluminum concentrations (100 and 300 M) stimulated primary root growth (6.98  0.15 and 6.45  0.17 cm, respectively) compared to the control (0 M; 5.24  0.17 cm), while high concentrations (500 M) induced damage to the root tips and inhibition of primary root growth (2.96  0.28 cm). Aluminum (100 M) also increased the K and Ca contents around 33% and 35% in the coffee roots. It is possible that aluminum toxicity resides in its association with cell nuclei in the meristematic region of the root. Additionally, after 30 days of treatment with aluminum, two different effects could be observed on phospholipase C (PLC) activity. In shoots, aluminum concentrations  300 M inhibited more than 50% of PLC activity. In contrast, in roots a contrasting behavior was determined: low (100 M) and toxic concentrations (500 M) increased the activity of PLC (100%). These results suggest the possible involvement of the phosphoinositide signal transduction pathway, with the phospholipase C enzyme participating in the beneficial and toxic effects of aluminum in plants.
The biotoxicity of hydroxyapatite nanoparticles to the plant growth.	In the present study, hydroxyapatite (HAP) nanoparticles of different particle sizes with high crystallinity and similiar structure were prepared by hydrothermal method. The crystal structure and particle size were characterized by X-ray diffraction pattern (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy. Mung bean sprouts were first used as experimental models. Instead of by MTT assay, the cytoxicity of HAP nanoparticles were proved and evaluated by measuring the hypocotyle length of mung bean sprouts in the culture media. The result showed that the inhibition effect to the growth of mung bean sprouts enhanced when HAP nanoparticles existed. Culture media of HAP nanoparticles with different concentrations and particle sizes was prepared to investigate the level of inhibition effect to the growth of mung bean sprouts. The result found that hypocotyl length of mung bean sprouts were the shortest cultured in 5mg/mL culture media in which the HAP nanoparticles were prepared by hydrothermal method for 24h. It was concluded the inhibition effect depended on the amount of intracellular HAP nanoparticles. The nanostructure and Ca(2+) concentration were considered as the main factors to cause cell apoptosis which was the reason of inhibition. The study provided a preliminary perspective about biotoxicity of HAP nanomaterials to the plant growth.
Overexpression of rice OsREX1-S, encoding a putative component of the core general transcription and DNA repair factor IIH, renders plant cells tolerant to cadmium- and UV-induced damage by enhancing DNA excision repair.	Screening of 40,000 Arabidopsis FOX (Full-length cDNA Over-eXpressor gene hunting system) lines expressing rice full-length cDNAs brings us to identify four cadmium (Cd)-tolerant lines, one of which carried OsREX1-S as a transgene. OsREX1-S shows the highest levels of identity to Chlamydomonas reinhardtii REX1-S (referred to as CrREX1-S, in which REX denotes Required for Excision) and to yeast and human TFB5s (RNA polymerase II transcription factor B5), both of which are components of the general transcription and DNA repair factor, TFIIH. Transient expression of OsREX1-S consistently localized the protein to the nucleus of onion cells. The newly generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing OsREX1-S reproducibly displayed enhanced Cd tolerance, confirming that the Cd-tolerance of the initial identified line was conferred solely by OsREX1-S expression. Furthermore, transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing OsREX1-S exhibited ultraviolet-B (UVB) tolerance by reducing the amounts of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers produced by UVB radiation. Moreover, those transgenic OsREX1-S Arabidopsis plants became resistant to bleomycin (an inducer of DNA strand break) and mitomycin C (DNA intercalating activity), compared to wild type. Our results indicate that OsREX1-S renders host plants tolerant to Cd, UVB radiation, bleomycin and mitomycin C through the enhanced DNA excision repair. 
Population differentiation for germination and early seedling root growth traits under saline conditions in the annual legume Medicago truncatula (Fabaceae).	Seedling establishment and survival are highly sensitive to soil salinity and plants that evolved in saline environments are likely to express traits that increase fitness in those environments. Such traits are of ecological interest and they may have practical value for improving salt tolerance in cultivated species. We examined responses to soil salinity and tested potential mechanisms of salt tolerance in Medicago truncatula, using genotypes that originated from natural populations occurring on saline and nonsaline soils.
Seed germination ecology of Echinochloa glabrescens and its implication for management in rice (Oryza sativa L.).	Echinochloa glabrescens is a C4 grass weed that is very competitive with rice when left uncontrolled. The competitive ability of weeds is intensified in direct-seeded rice production systems. A better understanding is needed of factors affecting weed seed germination, which can be used as a component of integrated weed management in direct-seeded rice. This study was conducted to determine the effects of temperature, light, salt and osmotic stress, burial depth, crop residue, time and depth of flooding, and herbicide application on the emergence, survival, and growth of two populations [Nueva Ecija (NE) and Los Baos (IR)] of E. glabrescens. Seeds from both populations germinated at all temperatures. The NE population had a higher germination rate (88%) from light stimulation than did the IR population (34%). The salt concentration and osmotic potential required to inhibit 50% of germination were 313 mM and -0.24 MPa, respectively, for the NE population and 254 mM and -0.33 MPa, respectively, for the IR population. Emergence in the NE population was totally inhibited at 4-cm burial depth in the soil, whereas that of the IR population was inhibited at 8 cm. Compared with zero residue, the addition of 5 t ha(-1) of rice residue reduced emergence in the NE and IR populations by 38% and 9%, respectively. Early flooding (within 2 days after sowing) at 2-cm depth reduced shoot growth by 50% compared with non-flooded conditions. Pretilachlor applied at 0.075 kg ai ha(-1) followed by shallow flooding (2-cm depth) reduced seedling emergence by 94-96% compared with the nontreated flooded treatment. Application of postemergence herbicides at 4-leaf stage provided 85-100% control in both populations. Results suggest that integration of different strategies may enable sustainable management of this weed and of weeds with similar germination responses.
Deciphering the mechanism of -aminobutyric acid-induced resistance in wheat to the grain aphid, Sitobion avenae.	The non-protein amino acid -aminobutyric acid (BABA) can induce plant resistance to a broad spectrum of biotic and abiotic stresses. However, BABA-induced plant resistance to insects is less well-studied, especially its underlying mechanism. In this research, we applied BABA to wheat seedlings and tested its effects on Sitobion avenae (F.). When applied as a soil drench, BABA significantly reduced weights of S. avenae, whereas foliar spray and seed treatment had no such effects. BABA-mediated suppression of S. avenae growth was dose dependent and lasted at least for 7 days. The aminobutyric acid concentration in phloem sap of BABA-treated plants was higher and increased with BABA concentrations applied. Moreover, after 10 days of treatment, the aminobutyric acid content in BABA-treated plants was still higher than that in control treatment. Sitobion avenae could not discriminate artificial diet containing BABA from standard diet, indicating that BABA itself is not a deterrent to this aphid. Also S. avenae did not show preference for control plants or BABA-treated plants. Consistent with choice test results, S. avenae had similar feeding activities on control and BABA-treated plants, suggesting that BABA did not induce antifeedants in wheat seedlings. In addition, aminobutyric acid concentration in S. avenae feeding on BABA-treated plants was significantly higher than those feeding on control plants. Sitobion avenae growth rate was reduced on the artificial diet containing BABA, indicating that BABA had direct toxic effects on this aphid species. These results suggest that BABA application reduced S. avenae performance on wheat seedlings and the mechanism is possibly due to direct toxicity of high BABA contents in plant phloem. 
Effect of aluminum on protein oxidation, non-protein thiols and protease activity in seedlings of rice cultivars differing in aluminum tolerance.	The effect of toxic concentrations of aluminum (Al) was investigated on contents of protein-thiols, non-protein and total thiols, protein carbonylation and protease activity in the seedlings of Al-sensitive (Al-S) Indica rice cv. HUR-105 and Al-tolerant (Al-T) cv. Vandana grown in sand cultures. Al treatment of 178 M and 421 M for 3-12 days caused a significant decline in the level of protein thiols, rise in non-protein thiols (NPTs) as well as protein carbonyl content and an insignificant alteration in the level of total thiols in cv. HUR-105 seedlings. However, in the seedlings of Al-T cv. Vandana, no significant alteration could be observed on any of these parameters with Al treatment. Al treatment inhibited protease activity in roots, whereas the opposite trend was seen in shoots. New isozymes of protease appeared in shoots of cv. Vandana with increased level of Al treatment. Our results show a link between protein thiols and NPTs and suggest the role of NPTs in the repair and protection of protein thiols. Inhibitory effect of Al on protease activity in roots could be a major reason for Al rhizotoxic effects. Al tolerance in rice appears to be associated with lesser content of protein thiols in roots, smaller amount of carbonylated proteins in roots as well as shoots and higher protease activity in shoots.
Effect of exogenous calcium on seed germination and seedling physiological characteristics of Lycium ruthenium]	In order to get the method for improving the salt resistance of Lycium ruthenium seeds and seedlings under NaCl stress, the seed germination and physiological characteristics of L. ruthenium seedlings was studied.
A novel function of sanshools: the alleviation of injury from metolachlor in rice seedlings.	Szechuan peppers are extensively used as a spice and in traditional medicine in Asia, primarily because of its active compounds, sanshools (S). However, there is only limited mention in agriculture, and there are no papers reporting its use as an herbicide safener. In this study, we provide the first evidence that S can effectively alleviate rice-seedling injury from metolachlor (M). We observed that the M-treated (0.25 M) rice seedlings, which were 56.0%, 66.0%, and 57.0% of the non-treated control in shoot height, root length, and fresh biomass, respectively, were recovered by S to 93.1%, 97.6%, and 94.8%, respectively. The emergence rate was enhanced to over 80% in the M+S treatment, whereas it was below 60% in the M treatment. This M+S mixture elevated the rice-seedling root activity to higher than 87.0% of the value for the non-treated control. The activity of glutathione transferases in the combined treatments approximately doubles that of the M treatment and quadruples that of the non-treated controls. This effect was positively correlated with the induced expression of OsGSTU3. Our results suggest that S may represent a new group of safeners and enable the possibility of using these compounds for improving plant production or protecting rice from the phytotoxicity of metolachlor.
