Parents' fear regarding fever and febrile seizures.	In order to improve the effectiveness of information, we studied parents' perceptions and knowledge about fever and febrile seizures. A questionnaire study was carried out among the parents whose children (n = 230) participated in a randomized controlled trial of ibuprofen to prevent recurrent febrile seizures. Of the 230 parents, 181 (79%) responded to the questionnaire. Of all parents, 45% were afraid or very afraid of fever, which was strongly associated with being afraid of recurrent febrile seizures. Parents of children with a non-West European background were more afraid. The consequences of parental fear included frequent temperature measurements (25% measured five times per day or more), sleeping in the same room (24%) and 13% remained awake at night. Witnessing a febrile seizure is a frightening experience for parents; a majority thought that febrile seizures were harmful, because they look dangerous. Forty-seven percent thought that their child was dying during the initial febrile seizure. On the other hand, reassuring information may be helpful: 21% mentioned it as their reason to consider febrile seizures not harmful. We conclude that parental fear of fever and febrile seizures is a major problem with several negative consequences for daily family life. Adequate provision of information may reduce parental fear. We suggest that information about fever and febrile seizures should be provided to all parents, preferably during their contact with the providers of preventive healthcare. The parents of children with a non-West European origin need extra attention.
New aspects in prevention of febrile convulsions]	In general, febrile convulsions have a good prognosis. The risk of death or neurologic and mental handicap is low. Though the risk of epilepsy is increased, there is no evidence that anticonvulsant treatment can prevent occurrence of later epilepsy. The aim of anticonvulsive prophylaxis is reduction of the rate of recurrences of febrile convulsions. Recent results point against the assumption that these can be prevented by long-term anticonvulsive treatment with phenobarbital or valproate. An alternative for longterm prophylaxis is intermittent short-term rectal application of diazepam suggested for children with a hightened risk of recurrences. Long-term prophylaxis with phenobarbital should only be considered in a small number of selective children.
Prophylactic treatment with valproic acid or diazepam in children with febrile convulsions.	The purpose of this study was to limit prophylactic treatment of children with febrile convulsions to patients who have the highest risk of recurrence. Two hundred and thirty-one children with a first febrile seizure were divided into high- and low-risk groups according to estimated risk of recurrence. All high-risk children were offered treatment with valproic acid. If this was declined they were offered treatment with diazepam instead. Low-risk children were untreated. Valproic acid and diazepam were found to be equally effective in reducing the risk of recurrence of febrile convulsions. By selecting for prophylactic treatment according to estimated risk of recurrence it is possible to reduce the rate of recurrence of febrile seizures in children at high-risk (60%) to the same level as that of untreated low-risk children (23%). Only about half of all children with febrile convulsions need treatment and follow-up according to these criteria.
Management of febrile seizures in a developing country.	In the analysis of 128 patients with febrile convulsions, we identified hazards not encountered in the western world, which could alter the ultimate management of the child. These include administration of home remedies during the seizures, detrimental cultural beliefs and poor socio-economic conditions. All complex seizures in our series were initial seizures. Recurrent benign febrile seizures did not predispose to a complex seizure. Behaviour disorders were the most prominent side effect following long term phenobarbitone administration.
Role of phenobarbitone in preventing recurrence of febrile convulsions.	A randomized double blind placebo controlled trial was carried out to study the effect of phenobarbitone (PB) in preventing recurrences of simple and atypical febrile convulsions among children in the age group 6 months to 6 years. Children with simple febrile convulsions were randomly allocated to receive either phenobarbitone or placebo. Children with atypical convulsions were treated with phenobarbitone, as a third group. Thirty children were admitted in each group. All the children were followed up for a period of twelve months. Recurrence of convulsions and side effects of PB were recorded. Recurrence occurred in only 7% (95% confidence interval: 1-22) of children on Phenobarbitone, suffering from either simple or atypical febrile convulsions, compared to 53% (95% confidence interval: 34-72) of children on placebo, suffering from simple febrile convulsions. With Phenobarbitone, 5% of children had intolerable side effects. These results suggest that long term prophylaxis with phenobarbitone, even in simple febrile convulsions will be useful.
