Development of a model of seizure-induced hippocampal injury with features of programmed cell death in the BALB/c mouse.	Although mice are amenable to gene knockout, they have not been exploited in the setting of seizure-induced neurodegeneration due to the resistance to injury of key mouse strains. We refined and developed models of seizure-induced neuronal death in the C57BL/6 and BALB/c strains by focally evoking seizures using intra-amygdala kainic acid. Seizures in adult male BALB/c mice, or C57BL/6 mice as reference, caused ipsilateral death of CA1 and CA3 neurons within the hippocampus. Termination of seizures by lorazepam was more effective than diazepam in both strains, largely restricting neuronal loss to the CA3 sector. Electroencephalography (EEG) recordings defined injurious and non-injurious seizure patterns, which could not be separated adequately by behavioral observation alone. Degenerating neurons in the hippocampus were positive for DNA fragmentation and approximately a third of these exhibited morphologic features of programmed cell death. Western blot analysis revealed the cleavage of caspase-8 after seizures in both strains. These data refine our C57BL/6 model and establish a companion model of focally evoked limbic seizures in the BALB/c mouse that provides further evidence for activation of programmed cell death after seizures.
Electroconvulsive seizure treatment increases cell proliferation in rat frontal cortex.	Recent studies have demonstrated increased neurogenesis in adult hippocampus in response to electroconvulsive seizure (ECS) or antidepressant drug treatment. Adult neurogenesis in the subgranular zone of the hippocampus and the subventricular zone is well established, whereas neuronal proliferation outside of these areas under unstimulated conditions is not observed. Since mood disorders are likely to involve brain regions in addition to hippocampus, particularly the frontal cortex, it is likely that antidepressant treatments produce cellular changes in these brain regions as well. In this study, we have investigated the effect of repeated ECS administration on the proliferation of cells in the frontal cortex, and we have examined the phenotype of these cells 4 weeks after labeling with a cell division marker. We found that ECS treatment increases the number of newly divided cells in the frontal cortex and that these new cells express markers of either endothelial cells or oligodendrocytes, but not neurons. It is possible that increased proliferation of these cell types in the frontal cortex could reverse the loss of glial cell number and the reduced volume that has been reported in the frontal cortex of depressed patients.
Epilepsy induced by extended amygdala-kindling in rats: lack of clear association between development of spontaneous seizures and neuronal damage.	Most patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), the most common type of epilepsy, show pronounced loss of neurons in limbic brain regions, including the hippocampus, amygdala, and parahippocampal regions. Hippocampal damage in patients with TLE is characterized by extensive neuronal loss in the CA3 and CA1 sectors and the hilus of the dentate gyrus. There is a long and ongoing debate on whether this type of hippocampal damage, referred to as hippocampal sclerosis, is the cause or consequence of TLE. Furthermore, hippocampal damage may contribute to the progressive features of TLE. The present study was designed to determine whether development of spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS) after extended kindling of the amygdala in rats is associated with neuronal damage. The kindling model of TLE was chosen because previous studies have shown that only part of the rats develop SRS after extended kindling, thus allowing to compare the brain pathology of rats that received the same number of amygdala stimulation but did or did not develop SRS. For extended kindling, rats were stimulated twice daily 3-5 days a week for up to about 280 stimulations. During long-term EEG/video monitoring, SRS were observed in 50% of the rats over the period of extended kindling. SRS often started with myoclonic jerks or focal seizures and subsequently progressed into secondarily generalized seizures, so that the development of SRS recapitulated the earlier kindling of elicited seizures. No obvious neurodegeneration was observed in the CA1 and CA3 sectors of the hippocampus, the amygdala, parahippocampal regions or thalamus. A significant bilateral reduction in neuronal density was determined in the dentate hilus after extended kindling, but this reduction in hilar cell density did not significantly differ between rats with and without observed SRS. Determination of the total number of hilar neurons and of hilar volume indicated that the reduced neuronal density in the dentate hilus was due to expansion of hilar area but not to neuronal damage. The data demonstrate that extended kindling does not cause any hippocampal damage resembling hippocampal sclerosis, but that SRS develop in the absence of such damage.
Brachydactyly with extrahepatic biliary atresia, patent ductus arteriosus and seizures--a new syndrome?	Brachydactyly is a relatively common congenital anomaly and can be associated with many other malformations. However, brachydactyly in association with biliary atresia is rare. We present a male child with strikingly symmetrical brachydactyly and nail hypoplasia, extrahepatic biliary atresia, patent ductus arteriosus, seizures, developmental delay and cataracts. This combination of features has not previously been described and we suggest that this case represents a new syndrome.
Correlation between temporal pole MRI abnormalities and surface ictal EEG patterns in patients with unilateral mesial temporal lobe epilepsy.	The objective of this retrospective study is to analyze ictal patterns observed during continuous Video-EEG monitoring in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) due to unilateral hippocampal sclerosis (HS), and to correlate these EEG patterns to temporal pole abnormalities observed on magnetic resonance imaging exams.
Preferential neuron loss in the rat piriform cortex following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus.	Structures within the piriform cortex (PC) including the endopiriform nucleus (DEN) and pre-endopiriform nucleus (pEn) have been implicated to be involved in seizure genesis in models of temporal lobe epilepsy. We used stereological methods to examine the specificity and extent of neuron loss in the PC of pilocarpine-treated rats. Both 7 days and 2 months post-status epilepticus rats showed significant neuron loss in the pEn and DEN, layer III of the intermediate PC, and layers II and III of the caudal PC. Total losses in the PC were 40 and 46% in 7 days and 2 months post-status epilepticus rats, respectively (p<0.01). The numbers of parvalbumin (PV)- and cholecystokinin (CCK)-immunopositive neuron profiles significantly decreased, and somatostatin (SS)-immunopositive neuron profiles tended to decrease. A large decrease in the number of PV-immunopositive neuron profiles occurred in the pEn, adjoining parts of the DEN and deep layer III of the PC, portions of the DEN bordering the claustrum and agranular insular cortex, and layer III of the caudal PC. The regions with decreased numbers of PV-, CCK-, and SS-immunopositive neuron profiles overlapped with those where many Nissl-stained neurons were lost and many degenerating cell bodies were detected. These results suggest that the decreases in the numbers of PV/SS/CCK-immunopositive neurons are related to neuron loss rather than to a low rate of synthesis of their peptides or proteins.
Ablation of D1 dopamine receptor-expressing cells generates mice with seizures, dystonia, hyperactivity, and impaired oral behavior.	Huntington's disease is characterized by death of striatal projection neurons. We used a Cre/Lox transgenic approach to generate an animal model in which D1 dopamine receptor (Drd1a)+ cells are progressively ablated in the postnatal brain. Striatal Drd1a, substance P, and dynorphin expression is progressively lost, whereas D2 dopamine receptor (Drd2) and enkephalin expression is up-regulated. Magnetic resonance spectroscopic analysis demonstrated early elevation of the striatal choline/creatine ratio, a finding associated with extensive reactive striatal astrogliosis. Sequential MRI demonstrated a progressive reduction in striatal volume and secondary ventricular enlargement confirmed to be due to loss of striatal cells. Mutant mice had normal gait and rotarod performance but displayed hindlimb dystonia, locomotor hyperactivity, and handling-induced electrographically verified spontaneous seizures. Ethological assessment identified an increase in rearing and impairments in the oral behaviors of sifting and chewing. In line with the limbic seizure profile, cell loss, astrogliosis, microgliosis, and down-regulated dynorphin expression were seen in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. This study specifically implicates Drd1a+ cell loss with tail suspension hindlimb dystonia, hyperactivity, and abnormal oral function. The latter may relate to the speech and swallowing disturbances and the classic sign of tongue-protrusion motor impersistence observed in Huntington's disease. In addition, the findings of this study support the notion that Drd1a and Drd2 are segregated on striatal projection neurons.
Seizure activity affects neuroglial Kv1 channel immunoreactivities in the gerbil hippocampus.	In order to confirm the species-specific distribution of voltage-gated K(+) (Kv) channels and the definitive relationship between their immunoreactivities and seizure activity, we investigated Kv1 channel immunoreactivities in the hippocampus of seizure resistant (SR) and seizure sensitive (SS) gerbils. There was distinct difference of the Kv1 channel subtypes immunoreactivity in the hippocampi in both SR and SS gerbils. Kv1.1, Kv1.2, Kv1.3, Kv1.4, and Kv1.6 immunoreactivities in the SS gerbil hippocampus were lower than that in the SR gerbil hippocampus. However, Kv1 immunoreactivities were obviously presented in astrocyte within the stratum radiatum of the CA1 region of pre-seizure SS gerbil hippocampus. Following seizure-onset, Kv1 immunoreactivities (except Kv1.5) were markedly elevated, whereas their immunoreactivites in astrocytes were down-regulated. Therefore, the present study demonstrates that seizure activity may distinctly affect neuroglial Kv1 immunoreactivities in the gerbil hippocampus.
Ictal intracranial infraslow EEG activity.	To investigate seizure onset baseline shifts and their relationship to background infraslow activity (ISA: 0.01-0.1Hz).
Human parechovirus causes encephalitis with white matter injury in neonates.	To assess the role of human parechoviruses (HPeVs) as a cause of neonatal cerebral infection and to report neuroimaging findings of newborn infants with encephalitis caused by HPeVs.
The developmental stage of dentate granule cells dictates their contribution to seizure-induced plasticity.	Dentate granule cell (DGC) neurogenesis persists throughout life in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. In rodent temporal lobe epilepsy models, status epilepticus (SE) stimulates neurogenesis, but many newborn DGCs integrate aberrantly and are hyperexcitable, whereas others may integrate normally and restore inhibition. The overall influence of altered neurogenesis on epileptogenesis is therefore unclear. To better understand the role DGC neurogenesis plays in seizure-induced plasticity, we injected retroviral (RV) reporters to label dividing DGC progenitors at specific times before or after SE, or used x-irradiation to suppress neurogenesis. RV injections 7 weeks before SE to mark DGCs that had matured by the time of SE labeled cells with normal placement and morphology 4 weeks after SE. RV injections 2 or 4 weeks before seizure induction to label cells still developing during SE revealed normally located DGCs exhibiting hilar basal dendrites and mossy fiber sprouting (MFS) when observed 4 weeks after SE. Cells labeled by injecting RV after SE displayed hilar basal dendrites and ectopic migration, but not sprouting, at 28 d after SE; when examined 10 weeks after SE, however, these cells showed robust MFS. Eliminating cohorts of newborn DGCs by focal brain irradiation at specific times before or after SE decreased MFS or hilar ectopic DGCs, supporting the RV labeling results. These findings indicate that developing DGCs exhibit maturation-dependent vulnerability to SE, indicating that abnormal DGC plasticity derives exclusively from aberrantly developing DGCs. Treatments that restore normal DGC development after epileptogenic insults may therefore ameliorate epileptogenic network dysfunction and associated morbidities.
Cortical sulcal areas in baboons (Papio hamadryas spp.) with generalized interictal epileptic discharges on scalp EEG.	Brain MRI studies in people with idiopathic generalized epilepsies demonstrate regional morphometric differences, though variable in magnitude and location. As the baboon provides an excellent electroclinical and neuroimaging model for photosensitive generalized epilepsy in humans, this study evaluated MRI volumetric and morphometric differences between baboons with interictal epileptic discharges (IEDs) on scalp EEG and baboons with normal EEG studies. Seventy-seven baboons underwent high-resolution brain MRI and scalp EEG studies. The scans were acquired using an 8-channel primate head coil (Siemens TRIO 3T scanner, Erlangen, Germany). After spatial normalization, sulcal measurements were obtained by object-based-morphology methods. One-hour scalp EEG studies were performed in animals sedated with ketamine. Thirty-eight (22F/16M) baboons had normal EEGs (IED-), while 39 (22F/17M) had generalized IEDs (IED+). The two groups were compared for age, total brain volume, and sulcal areas (Hotelling's Trace) as well as between-subjects comparison of 11 individual sulcal areas (averaged between left and right hemispheres). There were no differences between IED- and IED+ groups with respect to age or total brain (gray or white matter) volume, and multivariate tests demonstrated a marginally significant decrease of sulcal areas in IED+ baboons (p=0.075). Tests of between-subjects effects showed statistically significant decreases in the intraparietal (p=0.002), central (p=0.03) and cingulate sulci (p=0.02), and marginal decreases involving the lunate (p=0.07) and superior temporal sulci (p=0.08). Differences in sulcal areas in IED+ baboons may reflect global developmental abnormalities, while decreases of areas of specific sulci reflect anatomical markers for potential generators or cortical nodes of the networks underlying spontaneous seizures and photosensitivity in the baboon.
A new syndrome with multiple capillary malformations, intractable seizures, and brain and limb anomalies.	We present two unrelated male infants with strikingly similar clinical features which have not previously been reported together. The most unusual feature was the presence of multiple small capillary malformations (port-wine stains) on the skin from birth. Both infants had intractable seizures, microcephaly with progressive cortical atrophy, severe developmental delay, dysmorphic facial features, and hypoplasia of the distal phalanges. To our knowledge, no other person with this unique constellation of features has been described.
Power spectral analysis in infants with seizures: relationship to development.	There is increasing evidence that there is a strong relationship between brain oscillations and neurocognitive function. We used EEG power spectral analysis to determine if frequency and power provide an independent measure of developmental impairment in infants. We examined the spectral power of EEGs in 200 infants between 6 and 24 months of age who were evaluated for seizures. Infants were stratified into three age groups 6-12, 12-18, and 18-24 months, and development assessments were coded as normal, moderately delayed, and severely delayed. Compared with the normal infants, children with developmental delay had lower mean frequencies and greater delta and less theta and alpha power. Delta/theta and theta/alpha ratios were highly significant indicators of developmental status. This study demonstrates that frequency and power of brain oscillations during wakefulness is a strong predictor of development in infants. The findings support the concept that normal oscillatory activity is critical for normal cognitive function during development.
Insular cortex activation in a patient with "sensed presence"/ecstatic seizures.	Seizures with an aura of a "sensed presence," a religious emotion, or feelings of euphoria (ecstatic seizures) are characterized by heightened self-awareness. A previous case report on a patient with epilepsy and "sensed presence" as an aura described hypoperfusion in both temporal lobes and a local ictal increase in the left frontoparietal area. A reexamination of the data was suggested by a recent study of patients with ecstatic seizures, which proposed that hyperactivation of the left anterior insula might be a potential cause.
Predictors of seizure freedom after surgery for malformations of cortical development.	Malformations of cortical development (MCDs) are a major cause of medically refractory epilepsy. Our aim was to examine a surgical series of patients with cortical malformations to determine the prognostic factors associated with long-term seizure control.
A longitudinal study of psychological features in patients before and two years after epilepsy surgery.	This study aimed at investigating psychological features before and two years after epilepsy surgery. Fifty patients, 39 with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and 11 with frontal lobe epilepsy (FLE), were assessed at baseline and two years postoperatively with the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP). Baseline group level outcome was normal while individual level analyses delineated some mild to moderate degrees of psychological problems exceeding the normal range in subsets of patients. Features of hostility characterized half of the FLE and one-fourth of the TLE patients. Above 1/3 in each group had dependency features. About 1/3 of the TLE patients suffered from psychasthenia. In conclusion, even though group levels were normal, several patients had psychological problems. The main longitudinal result was that the personality features were stable and did not change after epilepsy surgery.
Neuroanatomical clues to altered neuronal activity in epilepsy: from ultrastructure to signaling pathways of dentate granule cells.	The dynamic aspects of epilepsy, in which seizures occur sporadically and are interspersed with periods of relatively normal brain function, present special challenges for neuroanatomical studies. Although numerous morphologic changes can be identified during the chronic period, the relationship of many of these changes to seizure generation and propagation remains unclear. Mossy fiber sprouting is an example of a frequently observed morphologic change for which a functional role in epilepsy continues to be debated. This review focuses on neuroanatomically identified changes that would support high levels of activity in reorganized mossy fibers and potentially associated granule cell activation. Early ultrastructural studies of reorganized mossy fiber terminals in human temporal lobe epilepsy tissue have identified morphologic substrates for highly efficacious excitatory connections among granule cells. If similar connections in animal models contribute to seizure activity, activation of granule cells would be expected. Increased labeling with two activity-related markers, Fos and phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase, has suggested increased activity of dentate granule cells at the time of spontaneous seizures in a mouse model of epilepsy. However, neuroanatomical support for a direct link between activation of reorganized mossy fiber terminals and increased granule cell activity remains elusive. As novel activity-related markers are developed, it may yet be possible to demonstrate such functional links and allow mapping of seizure activity throughout the brain. Relating patterns of neuronal activity during seizures to the underlying morphologic changes could provide important new insights into the basic mechanisms of epilepsy and seizure generation.
New insights into the role of hilar ectopic granule cells in the dentate gyrus based on quantitative anatomic analysis and three-dimensional reconstruction.	The dentate gyrus is one of two main areas of the mammalian brain where neurons are born throughout adulthood, a phenomenon called postnatal neurogenesis. Most of the neurons that are generated are granule cells (GCs), the major principal cell type in the dentate gyrus. Some adult-born granule cells develop in ectopic locations, such as the dentate hilus. The generation of hilar ectopic granule cells (HEGCs) is greatly increased in several animal models of epilepsy and has also been demonstrated in surgical specimens from patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Herein we review the results of our quantitative neuroanatomic analysis of HEGCs that were filled with Neurobiotin following electrophysiologic characterization in hippocampal slices. The data suggest that two types of HEGCs exist, based on a proximal or distal location of the cell body relative to the granule cell layer, and based on the location of most of the dendrites, in the molecular layer or hilus. Three-dimensional reconstruction revealed that the dendrites of distal HEGCs can extend along the transverse and longitudinal axis of the hippocampus. Analysis of axons demonstrated that HEGCs have projections that contribute to the normal mossy fiber innervation of CA3 as well as the abnormal sprouted fibers in the inner molecular layer of epileptic rodents (mossy fiber sprouting). These data support the idea that HEGCs could function as a "hub" cell in the dentate gyrus and play a critical role in network excitability.
Impact of seizures on developing dendrites: implications for intellectual developmental disabilities.	Childhood epilepsy can be severe and even catastrophic. In these instances, cognition can be impaired-leading to long-term intellectual disabilities. One factor that could potentially cause cognitive deficits is the frequent seizures that characterize intractable epilepsy. However, it has been difficult to separate the effects seizures may have from those of preexisting neuropathologies and/or the effects of ongoing anticonvulsant therapies. Therefore, important questions are: Do early life seizures produce the learning deficits? And if they do, how do they do it? Results from recent animal models studies reviewed here show that recurrent seizures in infancy stop the growth of CA1 hippocampal dendrites. We speculate that the molecular mechanisms responsible for seizure-induced growth suppression are homeostatic/neuroprotective, used by the developing nervous system in an attempt to limit neuronal and network excitability and prevent the continued generation of seizures. However, by preventing the normal growth of dendrites, there is a reduction in CA1 glutamatergic synapses that supports long-lasting forms of synaptic plasticity thought to be the cellular basis of learning and memory. Therefore, dendrite growth suppression would reduce the neuroanatomic substrates for learning and memory, and in so doing could contribute in important ways to spatial learning and memory deficits that may be relevant to the cognitive deficits associated with childhood epilepsy.
Reduction of the number of neurons in substantia nigra (Pars compacta) positively correlates with a reduction of seizure activity in WAG/Rij rats]	In WAG/Rij rats with a genetic predisposition to absence epilepsy, age-related dynamics of seizure activity in the frontal EEG was studied. In parallel, cellular content in substantia nigra was analyzed at the age of 1 and 10 months. In 10-months animals, the number of neurons in substantia nigra showed a profound decrease, whereas the number of glial calls increased. In parallel to that, the incidence of epileptic discharges and their duration significantly increased between 5 and 9 months of age. Positive correlations were revealed between the incidence of epileptic discharges and the number of neurons in substantia nigra suggesting that animals with lower number of neurons in SN expressed fewer absence seizures, and vice versa. It was suggested that reduction of neurons in substantia nigra is an adaptive process to prevent progressive development of absence seizures.
Opposing actions of hippocampus TNFα receptors on limbic seizure susceptibility.	Resected epileptic tissues exhibit elements of chronic neuroinflammation that include elevated TNFα and increased TNFα receptor activation, but the seizure related consequences of chronic TNFα expression remain unknown. Twenty four hours after acute limbic seizures the rat hippocampus exhibited a rapid upregulation of TNFR1, but a simultaneous downregulation of TNFR2. These limbic seizures also evoked significant increases in measures of neuroinflammation and caused significant neuronal cell death in both the hilus and CA3 of the hippocampus. In order to mimic a state of chronic TNFα exposure, adeno-associated viral vectors were packaged with a TNF receptor 1 (TNFR1) specific agonist, human TNFα, or a TNF receptor 1/2 agonist, rat TNFα. Subsequently, chronic hippocampal overexpression of either TNFR ligand caused microglial activation and blood-brain barrier compromise, a pattern similar to limbic seizure-induced neuroinflammation. However, no evidence was found for neuronal cell death or spontaneous seizure activity. Thus, chronic, in vivo TNFα expression and the subsequent neuroinflammation alone did not cause cell death or elicit seizure activity. In contrast, chronic hippocampal activation of TNFR1 alone significantly increased limbic seizure sensitivity in both amygdala kainic acid and electrical amygdala kindling models, while chronic activation of both TNFR1 and TNFR2 significantly attenuated the amygdala kindling rate. With regard to endogenous TNFα, chronic hippocampal expression of a TNFα decoy receptor significantly reduced seizure-induced cell death in the hippocampus, but did not alter seizure susceptibility. These findings suggest that blockade of endogenous TNFα could attenuate seizure related neuropathology, while selective activation of TNFR2 could exert beneficial therapeutic effects on in vivo seizure sensitivity. 
Seizure localization using three-dimensional surface projections of intracranial EEG power.	Intracranial EEG (icEEG) provides a critical road map for epilepsy surgery but it has become increasingly difficult to interpret as technology has allowed the number of icEEG channels to grow. Borrowing methods from neuroimaging, we aimed to simplify data analysis and increase consistency between reviewers by using 3D surface projections of intracranial EEG poweR (3D-SPIER). We analyzed 139 seizures from 48 intractable epilepsy patients (28 temporal and 20 extratemporal) who had icEEG recordings, epilepsy surgery, and at least one year of post-surgical follow-up. We coregistered and plotted icEEG β frequency band signal power over time onto MRI-based surface renderings for each patient, to create color 3D-SPIER movies. Two independent reviewers interpreted the icEEG data using visual analysis vs. 3D-SPIER, blinded to any clinical information. Overall agreement rates between 3D-SPIER and icEEG visual analysis or surgery were about 90% for side of seizure onset, 80% for lobe, and just under 80% for sublobar localization. These agreement rates were improved when flexible thresholds or frequency ranges were allowed for 3D-SPIER, especially for sublobar localization. Interestingly, agreement was better for patients with good surgical outcome than for patients with poor outcome. Localization using 3D-SPIER was measurably faster and considered qualitatively easier to interpret than visual analysis. These findings suggest that 3D-SPIER could be an improved diagnostic method for presurgical seizure localization in patients with intractable epilepsy and may also be useful for mapping normal brain function. 
Effect of severe neonatal seizures on prepulse inhibition and hippocampal volume of rats tested in early adulthood.	Several lines of evidence indicate that the risk of developing schizophrenia is significantly enhanced following postnatal exposure to environmental insults occurring during the critical periods of early central nervous system development. The hippocampus is a brain structure that has been associated with the neuropathology of schizophrenia. Neonatal epileptic seizures in rat pups can affect the construction of hippocampal networks. Patients with schizophrenia exhibit deficits in an operational measure of sensorimotor gating: prepulse inhibition (PPI) of startle. PPI is the normal reduction in the startle response caused by a low intensity non-startling stimulus (prepulse) which is presented shortly before the startle stimulus (pulse). The aim of the present study was to investigate if prolonged epileptic seizures, occurring during postnatal brain development, alter prepulse inhibition (PPI) response of acoustic startle reflex and hippocampal volume of rats tested later in life (post-pubertal phase). Pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) was induced in postnatal days (PNDs) 7-9 in rat pups. On PND56, the animals were tested in the acoustic startle/PPI paradigm. Hippocampal volume was measured in histological brain slices using the Cavalieri's principle. Dorsal and ventral hippocampi were measured bilaterally. Our results demonstrate that animals subjected to SE presented deficits in PPI when tested in adulthood. Dorsal hippocampal volume was reduced in rats that experienced severe neonatal seizures. 
Cerebral malaria and maternal deaths--a study of 13,141 deliveries at the Maputo Central Hospital, People's Republic of Mozambique]	In the Central Hospital of Maputo we registered 1986 6 maternal deaths during delivery caused by cerebral malaria. Clinical and histopathological findings have been discussed. In endemic districts of malaria convulsions during delivery are hints to cerebral malaria. Following postpartal infections cerebral malaria together with eclampsia has the second position in the reasons of maternal death.
Isolation and culture of cells derived from human cerebral microvessels.	Microvessels were isolated from non-neoplastic human cerebral cortical fragments resected for treatment of intractable seizure disorder. The microvessels were incubated in modified Lewis medium with 20 or 30% fetal bovine serum. Within 1-2 weeks, two cell populations emerged from the isolates. One type of cells had polygonal morphology, showed density-dependent contact inhibition at confluence in vitro, showed lectin-binding characteristics of endothelium (but only moderate positivity for factor VIII antigen), demonstrated induction of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase when exposed to astrocyte-conditioned media, and responded to insulin by a pronounced increase in DNA synthesis. The other variety of cells grew in vitro more slowly in irregular strands separated by clear zones, showed ultrastructural features of smooth muscle, and isoelectric focusing of cell proteins revealed the presence of smooth-muscle-specific alpha-isoactin. Both types of cells could be serially subcultured. The ability to isolate and grow the two cell types, tentatively identified as human cerebral microvascular endothelium and smooth muscle, may facilitate studies of human blood-brain barrier function as well as the pathogenesis of cerebral microangiopathies unique to the human brain.
Extramedullary hematopoiesis in the choroid plexus of five dogs.	Five dogs euthanatized because of refractory seizures were found to have hematopoietic elements in the interstitium of the choroid plexus at the level of the fourth ventricle. None of the dogs had significant hematologic or cerebrospinal fluid abnormalities. The extramedullary hematopoiesis was confined to the central nervous system and consisted of megakaryocytes, immature granulocytes, and rubricytes in two dogs and of one predominant cell population in each of the other three dogs. These findings are unique, and factors possibly contributing to the formation of a hematopoietic inductive microenvironment in the choroid plexus are cytokine-neurokine homologies, locally altered vascular supply, and aberrant functioning of bone marrow-derived central nervous system macrophages.
Neuroprotective effect of chronic infusion of basic fibroblast growth factor on seizure-associated hippocampal damage.	Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) has been shown to have neuroprotective effects in animal models of ischemia. To determine whether bFGF is protective against seizure-induced brain damage, we administered bFGF through osmotic pumps prior to, and after treatment with kainic acid (KA). Recombinant bFGF, CS23, a modified human bFGF, was infused into the lateral ventricles in rats for 2 days before and 5 days after the injection of KA. Control rats received equal volumes of phosphated saline over the same period of time. Infusion of 5 micrograms/ml of bFGF (0.5 microliter/h) did not modify the latency and duration of seizures induced by intraperitoneal injections of KA. However, bFGF prevented cell loss in the hippocampus in 80% of the rats. In control rats, cell loss in the hippocampus was found in all rats. These results indicate that bFGF has a substantial neuroprotective effect.
Ultrastructural characteristics of the brain and blood-brain barrier in experimental seizures.	During experimental seizures, the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is broken; tracer substances such as I131-albumin, Evans blue and horseradish peroxidase (HRP) geographically locate the barrier breakdown primarily in the diencephalon. Using rats, we have induced seizures with electroshocks and demonstrated the breakdown of the BBB with Evans blue and HRP. We have shown that (1) the BBB breakdown is proportional to the number of electroconvulsant shocks (ES) given; (2) the mechanism of increased barrier permeability is primarily by micropinocytosis in the cerebral capillaries, arterioles, and, to a lesser extent, venules; and (3) the stimulus for micropinocytosis and hence BBB breakdown is associated with the abrupt rise in systemic blood pressure and cerebral vasodilatation that accompanies each ES. If the systolic hypertension is abolished via cervical cordotomy, there is little to no breakdown in the BBB.
Development of a novel rat mutant with spontaneous limbic-like seizures.	A new epileptic rat mutant with spontaneous seizures was developed by successive mating and selection from an inherited cataract rat. The procedures for developing the mutant and the symptomatology, electroencephalographic correlates, and neuropathology of the mutant are reported. It is possible that this rat stain will provide a useful animal model for human temporal lobe epilepsy. The seizures of the rat usually begin with face and head myoclonus, followed by rearing, and generalized clonic and tonic convulsions, all of which are symptomatologically the same as limbic seizures. Electrographic recording during generalized convulsive seizures demonstrated that sustained spike discharges emerged at the hippocampus and then propagated to the neocortex. Seizures occurred spontaneously without any artificial stimuli. Furthermore, external stimuli such as auditory, flashing light, or vestibular stimulations could not elicit epileptic attacks. Almost all of the male animals had generalized convulsions, mostly from 5 months after birth, and the frequency of the seizures increased with aging. Generalized convulsions developed in approximately 20% of the female rats. Microdysgenesis, such as abnormal neuronal clustering, neuronal disarrangement, or interruption of pyramidal neurons in the hippocampal formation, was found in the young rats that had not yet had generalized seizures. This microdysgenesis, which is though to be genetically programmed, was very interesting from the aspect of the relationship between structural abnormalities and epileptogenesis in this mutant. In addition to microdysgenesis, there was sprouting of mossy fibers into the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus in those adult rats that had repeated generalized convulsions. An increase of glial-fibrillary-acidic-protein-positive astrocytes with thickened and numerous processes, ie, astrogliosis, was also found in the cerebral cortex, amygdala region, and hippocampus of these adult animals. Judging from the characteristics of the symptomatology, electroencephalographic correlates, and neuropathology, this epileptic mutant can be expected to be a useful animal model for studying human temporal lobe epilepsy.
Metyrapone, an inhibitor of glucocorticoid production, reduces brain injury induced by focal and global ischemia and seizures.	Increasing evidence indicates that glucocorticoids (GCs), produced in response to physical/emotional stressors, can exacerbate brain damage resulting from cerebral ischemia and severe seizure activity. However, much of the supporting evidence has come from studies employing nonphysiological paradigms in which adrenalectomized rats were compared with those exposed to constant GC concentrations in the upper physiological range. Cerebral ischemia and seizures can induce considerable GC secretion. We now present data from experiments using metyrapone (an 11-beta-hydroxylase inhibitor of GC production), which demonstrate that the GC stress-response worsens subsequent brain damage induced by ischemia and seizures in rats. Three different paradigms of brain injury were employed: middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model of focal cerebral ischemia; four-vessel occlusion (4VO) model of transient global forebrain ischemia; and kainic acid (KA)-induced (seizure-mediated) excitotoxic damage to hippocampal CA3 and CA1 neurons. Metyrapone (200 mg/kg body wt) was administered systemically in a single i.p. bolus 30 min prior to each insult. In the MCAO model, metyrapone treatment significantly reduced infarct volume and also preserved cells within the infarct. In the 4VO model, neuronal loss in region CA1 of the hippocampus was significantly reduced in rats administered metyrapone. Seizure-induced damage to hippocampal pyramidal neurons (assessed by cell counts and immunochemical analyses of cytoskeletal alterations) was significantly reduced in rats administered metyrapone. Measurement of plasma levels of corticosterone (the species-typical GC of rats) after each insult showed that metyrapone significantly suppressed the injury-induced rise in levels of circulating corticosterone. These findings indicate that endogenous corticosterone contributes to the basal level of brain injury resulting from cerebral ischemia and excitotoxic seizure activity and suggest that drugs that suppress glucocorticoid production may be effective in reducing brain damage in stroke and epilepsy patients.
Effects of streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia on brain damage following transient ischemia.	Hyperglycemia is known to aggravate ischemic brain damage. The present experiments were undertaken to explore whether hyperglycemia caused by streptozotocin-induced diabetes exacerbates brain damage following transient brain ischemia as it does in animals acutely infused with glucose. Experimental diabetes was induced by injection of streptozotocin in rats which were subjected to 10 min of forebrain ischemia either 1 week (1-wk) or 4 weeks (4-wk) after the induction of diabetes. Normoglycemic rats exposed to the same duration of ischemia and sham-operated diabetic rats served as controls. The animals underwent evaluation of clinical outcome and histopathological analysis of brain damage. Postischemic seizures developed in 35.3 and 42.1% of 1-wk and 4-wk diabetic hyperglycemic animals, respectively. The incidence of seizure was not different between the two groups. None of the diabetic animals with plasma glucose concentrations below 12 mM exhibited seizure activity. The extent and distribution of brain damage were similar between 1-and 4-wk diabetic animals. In the CA1 and in the subicular regions of hippocampus, both diabetic hyperglycemic and normoglycemic animals showed 70-80% cell death. Diabetic hyperglycemic animals had more severe neuronal necrosis in the parietal cortex than normoglycemic animals. In diabetic hyperglycemic animals, neuronal damage involved additional brain structures, e.g., cingulate cortex, thalamus nuclei, substantia nigra, pars reticulata, and the hippocampal CA3 sector, i.e., structures in which neurons were not affected in normoglycemic ischemic subjects at this duration of ischemia. These findings demonstrate that diabetic hyperglycemic animals frequently develop postischemic seizures and that streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia results exacerbated postischemic brain damage of the same density and distribution as in acutely glucose-infused animals.
