Nucleic acid-based aptamers as promising therapeutics in neoplastic diseases.	Isolated through combinatorial libraries by an iterative in vitro selection process, small single-stranded nucleic acid compounds, named aptamers, have been developed as high-affinity ligands for a variety of targets, ranging from small chemical compounds to large proteins. In the last years, an increasing number of aptamers has been generated that represent potential antagonists of the disease-associated target proteins. These molecules have been shown to discriminate between even closely related targets, thus representing a valid alternative to antibodies or other biomimetic receptors for the development of biosensors and other bioanalytical methods. Moreover, they can be easily stabilized by chemical modifications for in vivo applications and numerous examples have shown that stabilized aptamers against extracellular targets such as growth factors, receptors, hormones, or coagulation factors are very effective inhibitors of the corresponding protein function, thus resulting as useful reagents for target validation in a variety of diseases, including cancer. Indeed, many signaling proteins involved in diverse functions such as cell growth and differentiation can act as oncogenes and cause cellular transformation, thus making these high affinity ligands promising tools for cancer diagnosis or therapy.
A DNA aptamer population specifically detects Leishmania infantum H2A antigen.	Aptamers are short single-stranded DNA or RNA oligonucleotides that are selected in vitro by their affinity and specificity for the target. Binding is a consequence of the particular tertiary structure that they are able to acquire, depending on their sequence. Parasites of the genus Leishmania belongs to the lower eukaryote order Kinetoplastida that causes leishmaniosis in man and animals. Histone genes in Leishmania are of considerable interest because these flagellates do not condense their chromatin during mitosis. Thus, the study of the structural features of histones has been considered of particular interest and, as a result, in recent years a great number of histone genes have been characterized in trypanosomatids. Histones are extremely conserved proteins, reflecting their apparent universality of function. Sequence similarity of kinetoplastid core histones those of higher eukaryotes is found predominantly in the globular region with high sequence divergences in the N- and in the C-terminal domains. These divergences indicate that they may be potential diagnostic and/or therapeutics targets. We have successfully isolated a pool of DNA sequences, named SELH2A, which specifically binds to Leishmania infantum H2A. When tested in an enzyme-linked oligonucleotide assay, slot blot and Western blot analysis, the aptamer pool exhibited specificity in its ability to bind only to H2A antigen but not to other proteins from L. infantum including other histones. Thus, it appears that this novel anti-H2A aptamer population may be of potential application as a diagnostic system for leishmaniosis.
RNomics: identification and function of small non-protein-coding RNAs in model organisms.	In the recent past, our knowledge on small non-protein-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) has exponentially grown. Different approaches to identify novel ncRNAs that include computational and experimental RNomics have led to a plethora of novel ncRNAs. A picture emerges, in which ncRNAs have a variety of roles during regulation of gene expression. Thereby, many of these ncRNAs appear to function in guiding specific protein complexes to target nucleic acids. The concept of RNA guiding seems to be a widespread and very effective regulatory mechanism. In addition to guide RNAs, numerous RNAs were identified by RNomics screens, lacking known sequence and structure motifs; hence no function could be assigned to them as yet. Future challenges in the field of RNomics will include elucidation of their biological roles in the cell.
Toward ribosomal RNA catalytic activity in the absence of protein.	The ribosome is the ribonucleoprotein particle responsible for translation of genetic information into proteins. The RNA component of the ribosome has been implicated as the catalytic entity for peptide bond formation based on protease resistance and structural data indicating an all-RNA active site. Nevertheless, peptidyl transfer by ribosomal RNA (rRNA) alone has not been demonstrated. In an attempt to show such activity we generated a minimal construct that comprises much of the 23S rRNA peptidyl transferase center, including the central loop and the A- and P-loops. This minimal rRNA domain was inactive in peptide bond formation under all conditions tested. The RNA was subsequently subjected to six rounds of in vitro selection designed to enrich for this activity. The result was a mutated rRNA sequence that could catalyze the covalent linkage of an A-site and P-site substrate; however, the product did not contain a peptide bond. The current study is an example of an in vitro derived alternate function of rRNA mutants and illustrates the evolutionary possibility that the protoribosome may have used amino acids as substrates before it gained the ability to join them into peptides. Though peptidyl transferase activity in the absence of protein remains elusive, the ease with which alternate catalytic activity was selected from rRNA with a small number of mutations suggests that rRNA may have inherent activity. This study represents a step on the path toward isolating that native activity.
Anti-coagulant aptamers.	In the past decade development of aptamer technology is poised into several fields with various clinical applications. With this progress, aptamer based anti-coagulant agents are evolved and continuing their applications with clinical trials. At present several anti-coagulant aptamers are available against different proteins from blood coagulation cascade. In this review, the mechanism and functions of anti-coagulant aptamers, as an alternate candidate to other available anti-coagulant agents are discussed.
Therapeutic potential of anti-interleukin-17A aptamer: suppression of interleukin-17A signaling and attenuation of autoimmunity in two mouse models.	The proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-17A (IL-17A) is produced primarily by the CD4+ T cell subset called Th17 cells, which is involved in host defense, inflammation, and autoimmune disorders. This study was undertaken to investigate the effect of a high-affinity RNA molecule, called an aptamer, against human IL-17A on IL-17A-induced signal transduction in vitro and its anti-autoimmune efficacy in vivo in 2 mouse models of inflammation.
A G-quadruplex aptamer inhibits the phosphatase activity of oncogenic protein Shp2 in vitro.	Shp2 is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family, which regulates a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. Using a recombinant Shp2-GST protein as the target and GST as a counter target, we have identified two classes of single-stranded DNA aptamers that selectively bind to Shp2 with a K(d) in the nanomolar range. Structural studies of the most abundant sequence in the enriched library, HJ24, revealed a parallel G-quadruplex as the core binding domain. Furthermore, this aptamer was found to be an effective inhibitor of Shp2 phosphatase, an effect which was readily reversed by using the cDNA of HJ24. In view of these characteristics, this aptamer has the potential to be used for further development of Shp2 assays and therapeutics for the treatment of Shp2-dependent cancers and other diseases.
Development of single-stranded DNA aptamers for specific Bisphenol a detection.	The development of reagents with high affinity and specificity to small molecules is crucial for the high-throughput detection of chemical compounds, such as toxicants or pollutants. Aptamers are short and single-stranded (ss) oligonucleotides able to recognize target molecules with high affinity. Here, we report the selection of ssDNA aptamers that bind to Bisphenol A (BPA), an environmental hormone. Using SELEX process, we isolated high affinity aptamers to BPA from a 10(15) random library of 60 mer ssDNAs. The selected aptamers bound specifically to BPA, but not to structurally similar molecules, such as Bisphenol B with one methyl group difference, or 4,4'-Bisphenol with 2 methyl groups difference. Using these aptamers, we developed an aptamer-based sol-gel biochip and detected BPA dissolved in water. This novel BPA aptamer-based detection can be further applied to the universal and high-specificity detection of small molecules.
Nucleic acids targeted to drugs: SELEX against a quadruplex ligand.	A number of small molecules demonstrate selective recognition of G-quadruplexes and are able to stabilize their formation. In this work, we performed the synthesis of two biotin-tagged G4 ligands and analyzed their interactions with DNA by two complementary techniques, FRET and FID. The compound that exhibited the best characteristics (a biotin pyridocarboxamide derivative with high stabilization of an intramolecular quadruplex and excellent duplex-quadruplex specificity) was used as bait for in vitro selection (SELEX). Among 80 DNA aptamer sequences selected, only a small minority (5/80) exhibited G4-prone motifs. Binding of consensus candidates was confirmed by SPR. These results indicate that G4 ligands that appear highly specific when comparing affinities or stabilization for one quadruplex against one duplex, do not only bind quadruplex sequences but may also recognize other nucleic motifs as well. This observation may be relevant when whole genome or transcriptome analysis of binding sites is seeked for, as unexpected binding sites may also be present.
RNA mimics of green fluorescent protein.	Green fluorescent protein (GFP) and its derivatives have transformed the use and analysis of proteins for diverse applications. Like proteins, RNA has complex roles in cellular function and is increasingly used for various applications, but a comparable approach for fluorescently tagging RNA is lacking. Here, we describe the generation of RNA aptamers that bind fluorophores resembling the fluorophore in GFP. These RNA-fluorophore complexes create a palette that spans the visible spectrum. An RNA-fluorophore complex, termed Spinach, resembles enhanced GFP and emits a green fluorescence comparable in brightness with fluorescent proteins. Spinach is markedly resistant to photobleaching, and Spinach fusion RNAs can be imaged in living cells. These RNA mimics of GFP provide an approach for genetic encoding of fluorescent RNAs.
Design strategies of fluorescent biosensors based on biological macromolecular receptors.	Fluorescent biosensors to detect the bona fide events of biologically important molecules in living cells are increasingly demanded in the field of molecular cell biology. Recent advances in the development of fluorescent biosensors have made an outstanding contribution to elucidating not only the roles of individual biomolecules, but also the dynamic intracellular relationships between these molecules. However, rational design strategies of fluorescent biosensors are not as mature as they look. An insatiable request for the establishment of a more universal and versatile strategy continues to provide an attractive alternative, so-called modular strategy, which permits facile preparation of biosensors with tailored characteristics by a simple combination of a receptor and a signal transducer. This review describes an overview of the progress in design strategies of fluorescent biosensors, such as auto-fluorescent protein-based biosensors, protein-based biosensors covalently modified with synthetic fluorophores, and signaling aptamers, and highlights the insight into how a given receptor is converted to a fluorescent biosensor. Furthermore, we will demonstrate a significance of the modular strategy for the sensor design.
Aptamers as remarkable diagnostic and therapeutic agents in cancer treatment.	Nucleic acid aptamers are molecules that are being used in a large number of biomedical applications. Aptamers have the properties to bind to a wide range of molecules with high specificity and affinity for their target. These properties together with their small size and their ease of synthesis make them very attractive and promising for targeting diseases and therapeutic applications. Aptamers can serve as cancer diagnostic tools by detecting specific biomarkers, circulating cancer cells or imaging diseased tissue. On the other hand, aptamers can be used as therapeutic agents due to their potential antagonist activity, or as targeting agents. Therefore, they can be designed to deliver antitumor molecules such as chemotherapeutic drugs, siRNA or photodynamic therapy sensitizers to diseased tissues. Attempts are also made to synthesize aptamers-targeted nanoplatforms capable to ferry cargo and load onto them both imaging and therapeutic functions creating so called nanotheragnostics agents. In the future, its seems likely that aptamers will play an important role in diagnosis and treatment of several pathologies including cancer.
DNA aptamers to human immunodeficiency virus reverse transcriptase selected by a primer-free SELEX method: characterization and comparison with other aptamers.	A 30-nucleotide DNA aptamer (5'-AGGAAGGCTTTAGGTCTGAGATCTCGGAAT-3', denoted PF1) selected for high affinity to human immunodeficiency virus reverse transcriptase (HIV RT) using a primer-free SELEX (systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment) method was characterized to determine features promoting tight binding. PF1's equilibrium dissociation constant for RT was ∼80 nM, over 10-fold lower than a random 30-mer. Changing the 2 terminal diguanosine repeats (underlined above) to diadenosine or dithymidine modestly decreased binding. Any changes to the 2 central diguanosines dramatically decreased binding. Binding was highly sensitive to length, with any truncations that deleted part of the 4 diguanosine motifs resulting in a 6-fold or more decrease in affinity. Even a construct with all the diguanosine motifs but lacking the 5' terminal A and 3 nucleotides at the 3' end showed ∼3-fold binding decrease. Changes to the nucleotides between the diguanosines, even those that did not alter PF1's low secondary structure (free energy of folding ΔG=-0.61 kcal/mol), dramatically decreased binding, suggesting sequence specificity. Despite the diguanosine motifs, circular dichroism (CD) spectra indicated that PF1 did not form a G-quartet. PF1 inhibited HIV RT synthesis with a half-maximal inhibitory value (IC(50)) of ∼60 nM. Larger, more structured RT DNA aptamers based on the HIV polypurine tract and those that formed G-quartets (denoted S4 and R1T) were more potent inhibitors, with IC(50) values of ∼4 and ∼1 nM, respectively. An RNA pseudoknot aptamer (denoted 1.1) showed an IC(50) near 4 nM. Competition binding assays with PF1 and several previously characterized RT aptamers indicated that they all bound at or near the primer-template pocket. These other more structured and typically larger aptamers bound more tightly than PF1 to RT based on filter binding assays. Results indicate that PF1 represents a new class of RT aptamers that are relatively small and have very low secondary structure, attributes that could be advantageous for further development as HIV inhibitors.
A novel label-free electrochemical aptasensor based on graphene-polyaniline composite film for dopamine determination.	A novel label-free electrochemical aptasensor based on graphene-polyaniline (GR-PANI) nanocomposites film for dopamine (DA) determination was reported. The resulting GR-PANI layer exhibited good current response for DA determination. The good electron transfer activity might be attributed to the effect of GR and PANI. The highly conductive and biocompatible nanostructure of GR-PANI nanocomposites was characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), cyclic voltammetry (CV) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). To quantify the amount of DA, the peaks of square-wave voltammetry (SWV) were monitored using the redox couple of an [Fe(CN)(6)](4-/3-) probe. The electrochemical aptasensor showed a linear response to DA in the range 0.007-90 nmol/L and a limit of detection of 0.00198 nmol/L (S/N=3). The electrochemical aptasensor was successfully tested on human serum samples.
Development of novel single-stranded nucleic acid aptamers against the pro-angiogenic and metastatic enzyme heparanase (HPSE1).	Heparanase is an enzyme involved in extracellular matrix remodelling and heparan sulphate proteoglycan catabolism. It is secreted by metastatic tumour cells, allowing them to penetrate the endothelial cell layer and basement membrane to invade target organs. The release of growth factors at the site of cleaved heparan sulphate chains further enhance the potential of the tumour by encouraging the process of angiogenesis. This leads to increased survival and further proliferation of the tumour. Aptamers are single or double stranded oligonucleotides that recognise specific small molecules, peptides, proteins, or even cells or tissues and have shown great potential over the years as diagnostic and therapeutic agents in anticancer treatment. For the first time, single stranded DNA aptamers were successfully generated against the active heterodimer form of heparanase using a modified SELEX protocol, and eluted based on increasing affinity for the target. Sandwich ELISA assays showed recognition of heparanase by the aptamers at a site distinct from that of a polyclonal HPSE1 antibody. The binding affinities of aptamer to immobilised enzyme were high (7 × 10(7) to 8 × 10(7) M(-1)) as measured by fluorescence spectroscopy. Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence studies demonstrated that the aptamers were able to recognise heparanase with staining comparable or in some cases superior to that of the HPSE1 antibody control. Finally, matrigel assay demonstrated that aptamers were able to inhibit heparanase. This study provides clear proof of principle concept that nucleic acid aptamers can be generated against heparanase. These reagents may serve as useful tools to explore the functional role of the enzyme and in the future development of diagnostic assays or therapeutic reagents.
Density-dependent cooperative non-specific binding in solid-phase SELEX affinity selection.	The non-specific binding of undesired ligands to a target is the primary factor limiting the enrichment of tight-binding ligands in affinity selection. Solution-phase non-specific affinity is determined by the free-energy of ligand binding to a single target. However, the solid-phase affinity might be higher if a ligand bound concurrently to multiple adjacent immobilized targets in a cooperative manner. Cooperativity could emerge in this case as a simple consequence of the relationship between the free energy of binding, localization entropy and the spatial distribution of the immobilized targets. We tested this hypothesis using a SELEX experimental design and found that non-specific RNA aptamer ligands can concurrently bind up to four bead-immobilized peptide targets, and that this can increase their effective binding affinity by two orders-of-magnitude. Binding curves were quantitatively explained by a new statistical mechanical model of density-dependent cooperative binding, which relates cooperative binding to both the target concentration and the target surface density on the immobilizing substrate. Target immobilization plays a key role in SELEX and other ligand enrichment methods, particularly in new multiplexed microfluidic purification devices, and these results have strong implications for optimizing their performance. 
A two-step stimulus-response cell-SELEX method to generate a DNA aptamer to recognize inflamed human aortic endothelial cells as a potential in vivo molecular probe for atherosclerosis plaque detection.	Aptamers are single-stranded oligonucleotides that are capable of binding wide classes of targets with high affinity and specificity. Their unique three-dimensional structures present numerous possibilities for recognizing virtually any class of target molecules, making them a promising alternative to antibodies used as molecular probes in biomedical analysis and clinical diagnosis. In recent years, cell-systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment (SELEX) has been used extensively to select aptamers for various cell targets. However, aptamers that have evolved from cell-SELEX to distinguish the "stimulus-response cell" have not previously been reported. Moreover, a number of cumbersome and time-consuming steps involved in conventional cell-SELEX reduce the efficiency and efficacy of the aptamer selection. Here, we report a "two-step" methodology of cell-SELEX that successfully selected DNA aptamers specifically against "inflamed" endothelial cells. This has been termed as stimulus-response cell-SELEX (SRC-SELEX). The SRC-SELEX enables the selection of aptamers to distinguish the cells activated by stimulus of healthy cells or cells isolated from diseased tissue. We report a promising aptamer, N55, selected by SRC-SELEX, which can bind specifically to inflamed endothelial cells both in cell culture and atherosclerotic plaque tissue. This aptamer probe was demonstrated as a potential molecular probe for magnetic resonance imaging to target inflamed endothelial cells and atherosclerotic plaque detection. 
Single-stranded DNA aptamer that specifically binds to the influenza virus NS1 protein suppresses interferon antagonism.	Non-structural protein 1 (NS1) of the influenza A virus (IAV) inhibits the host's innate immune response by suppressing the induction of interferons (IFNs). Therefore, blocking NS1 activity can be a potential strategy in the development of antiviral agents against IAV infection. In the present study, we selected a single-stranded DNA aptamer specific to the IAV NS1 protein after 15 cycles of systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment (SELEX) procedure and examined the ability of the selected aptamer to inhibit the function of NS1. The selected aptamer binds to NS1 with a Kd of 18.91±3.95nM and RNA binding domain of NS1 is determined to be critical for the aptamer binding. The aptamer has a G-rich sequence in the random sequence region and forms a G-quadruplex structure. The localization of the aptamer bound to NS1 in cells was determined by confocal images, and flow cytometry analysis further demonstrated that the selected aptamer binds specifically to NS1. In addition, luciferase reporter gene assay, quantitative RT-PCR, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) experiments demonstrated that the selected aptamer had the ability to induce IFN-β by suppressing the function of NS1. Importantly, we also found that the selected aptamer was able to inhibit the viral replication without affecting cell viability. These results indicate that the selected ssDNA aptamer has strong potential to be further developed as a therapeutic agent against IAV. 
Crystal structure of interleukin-6 in complex with a modified nucleic acid ligand.	IL-6 is a secreted cytokine that functions through binding two cell surface receptors, IL-6Rα and gp130. Because of its involvement in the progression of several chronic inflammatory diseases, IL-6 is a target of pharmacologic interest. We have recently identified a novel class of ligands called SOMAmers (S low Off-rate Modified Aptamers) that bind IL-6 and inhibit its biologic activity. SOMAmers exploit the chemical diversity of protein-like side chains assembled on flexible nucleic acid scaffolds, resulting in an expanded repertoire of intra- and intermolecular interactions not achievable with conventional aptamers. Here, we report the co-crystal structure of a high affinity SOMAmer (Kd = 0.20 nm) modified at the 5-position of deoxyuridine in a complex with IL-6. The SOMAmer, comprised of a G-quartet domain and a stem-loop domain, engages IL-6 in a clamp-like manner over an extended surface exhibiting close shape complementarity with the protein. The interface is characterized by substantial hydrophobic interactions overlapping the binding surfaces of the IL-6Rα and gp130 receptors. The G-quartet domain retains considerable binding activity as a disconnected autonomous fragment (Kd = 270 nm). A single substitution from our diversely modified nucleotide library leads to a 37-fold enhancement in binding affinity of the G-quartet fragment (Kd = 7.4 nm). The ability to probe ligand surfaces in this manner is a powerful tool in the development of new therapeutic reagents with improved pharmacologic properties. The SOMAmer·IL-6 structure also expands our understanding of the diverse structural motifs achievable with modified nucleic acid libraries and elucidates the nature with which these unique ligands interact with their protein targets. 
Simultaneous aptasensor for multiplex pathogenic bacteria detection based on multicolor upconversion nanoparticles labels.	A highly sensitive and specific multiplex method for the simultaneous detection of three pathogenic bacteria was fabricated using multicolor upconversion nanoparticles (UCNPs) as luminescence labels coupled with aptamers as the molecular recognition elements. Multicolor UCNPs were synthesized via doping with various rare-earth ions to obtain well-separated emission peaks. The aptamer sequences were selected using the systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment (SELEX) strategy for Staphylococcus aureus, Vibrio parahemolyticus, and Salmonella typhimurium. When applied in this method, aptamers can be used for the specific recognition of the bacteria from complex mixtures, including those found in real food matrixes. Aptamers and multicolor UCNPs were employed to selectively capture and simultaneously quantify the three target bacteria on the basis of the independent peaks. Under optimal conditions, the correlation between the concentration of three bacteria and the luminescence signal was found to be linear from 50-10(6) cfu mL(-1). Improved by the magnetic separation and concentration effect of Fe3O4 magnetic nanoparticles, the limits of detection of the developed method were found to be 25, 10, and 15 cfu mL(-1) for S. aureus, V. parahemolyticus, and S. typhimurium, respectively. The capability of the bioassay in real food samples was also investigated, and the results were consistent with experimental results obtained from plate-counting methods. This proposed method for the detection of various pathogenic bacteria based on multicolor UCNPs has great potential in the application of food safety and multiplex nanosensors. 
Development of an indirect competitive assay-based aptasensor for highly sensitive detection of tetracycline residue in honey.	Tetracycline (TC) is widely used for prevention and control of animal diseases for its broad spectrum antimicrobial activity and low cost, but its abuse can seriously affect human health and may result in trade loss. Thus there is an imperative need to develop high-performing analytical technique for TC detection. In this study, we developed a biosensor based on an indirect competitive enzyme-linked aptamer assay (ic-ELAA). A 76mer single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) aptamer, selected by Systematic Evolution of Ligands by Exponential Enrichment (SELEX), was applied for the recognition and detection of TC in honey. The limit of detection was 9.6×10(-3) ng/mL with a linear working range from 0.01 to 100 ng/mL toward TC in honey, and a mean recovery rate of 93.23% in TC-spiked honey was obtained. This aptasensor can be applied to detect TC residue in food with high sensitivity and simplicity, and it is prospective to develop useful ELAA Kits for TC determination in food.
High efficiency acetylcholinesterase immobilization on DNA aptamer modified surfaces.	We report here the in vitro selection of DNA aptamers for electric eel acetylcholinesterase (AChE). One selected aptamer sequence (R15/19) has a high affinity towards the enzyme (Kd=157±42 pM). Characterization of the aptamer showed its binding is not affected by low ionic strength (~20 mM), however significant reduction in affinity occurred at high ionic strength (~1.2 M). In addition, this aptamer does not inhibit the catalytic activity of AChE that we exploit through immobilization of the DNA on a streptavidin-coated surface. Subsequent immobilization of AChE by the aptamer results in a 4-fold higher catalytic activity when compared to adsorption directly on to plastic.
