From Alice Cooper to Marilyn Manson: the significance of adolescent antiheroes.	Every generation has icons attractive to adolescents and equally repugnant to adults. This article examines antihero characteristics, their appeal to adolescents, and how adults can respond to adolescents enamored of antiheroes. The stage personas of antiheroes champion rejection of the mainstream, assail adult constraints and expectations, explore frightening topics, and ultimately fulfill the adolescent fantasy of surviving alienation and emerging victorious over parents and peers. But antihero idolization also tests the adult's defenses. Adults, fearing loss of control and rejection by the adolescent, sometimes resort to primitive defenses mismatched to the developmental needs of the adolescent. Adults, as much as the adolescents, benefit from examining their individual reactions to the antihero and how their current relationship can accommodate this intrusion. The antihero phenomenon presents adults with an opportunity to model ways to think through that which is uncomfortable and to navigate together the adolescent's developmentally normative separation efforts.
General practitioner contacts with patients before and after deliberate self harm.	Deliberate self harm (DSH) is an increasingly common problem. Although much attention is focused on suicide prevention by psychiatric services, the role of the general practitioner (GP) in the prevention of suicidal behaviour and in the aftercare of DSH patients is also important.
Dialectical behavior therapy: current status, recent developments, and future directions.	Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT) was developed as a treatment for parasuicidal women with borderline personality disorder and has been adapted for several other populations. This article describes standard DBT and several adaptations of it and reviews outcome studies with borderline patients in outpatient, inpatient, and crisis intervention settings, borderline patients with substance use disorders, suicidal adolescents, patients with eating disorders, inmates in correctional settings, depressed elders, and adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. This treatment outcome review is followed by discussion of predictors of change in DBT, possible mechanisms of change, and current developments in theory, practice, and research.
Differential effects of manual assisted cognitive behavior therapy in the treatment of recurrent deliberate self-harm and personality disturbance: the POPMACT study.	A total of 480 patients were treated in a large, multicenter randomized trial of a brief form of cognitive therapy, manual-assisted cognitive behavior therapy (MACT) versus treatment as usual (TAU) for recurrent deliberate self-harm. Each patient was randomized after a self-harm episode assessed at an accident and emergency center and followed up over 1 year. The main hypothesis tested was that those allocated to MACT would have a lower proportion of self-harm episodes in the succeeding year. A total of 60% of those allocated to MACT had face-to-face treatment and 430 (90%) of all patients had self-harm data recorded after 1 year. Although the results showed no significant difference between those repeating self-harm in the MACT group (39%) compared with the TAU group (46%) (P = 0.20), the treatment was cost effective (10% cheaper than TAU) and the frequency of self-harm episodes was fewer (50%) in the MACT group. A total of nine of 10 patients had some personality disturbance (42% of these with disorder), and for those where information on parasuicide events was collected, the proportion having a repeat episode ranged from 33% to 63% for different personality disorders. Those with BPD were most likely to repeat episodes quickly (mean 89 days for 25% to repeat) with dissocial personality disorder (equivalent mean 384 days) the slowest to repeat. Total costs were significantly greater in those with personality disorder and were reduced in those allocated to MACT; this saving was reversed in those with borderline disorder. On average, MACT appeared to increase the cost of those patients with BPD (BPD) and reduce the cost of those with other personality disorders. It is concluded that MACT has value in preventing self-harm cost effectively but this appears to be confined mainly to those who do not have BPD.
Injury control in childhood.	The behavior and environment of individuals are key determinants of both unintentional and intentional injuries in childhood and adolescence. These two determinants often interact so that certain behaviors lead to different injury outcomes depending on the environmental context of the injury. For example, depression is more likely to lead to suicide in the presence of alcohol intoxication. Alcohol intoxication is much more likely to lead to the choice of a firearm in a suicide attempt. Children with poor pedestrian crossing skills are far more likely to be hit in a busy urban intersection than in a safer location. The science of injury control has attempted to learn more about both the behavioral, environmental, and agent characteristics that lead to injury. Each of these dimensions offers opportunities for injury prevention or amelioration of the outcome. Despite increasing knowledge about how certain behaviors are associated with specific types of injuries, there has been only limited success achieved by attempts to modify behavior, particularly by persuasion or education. More success has been derived by legislative mandates. The most success, particularly in the prevention of unintentional injury, has been achieved by modification of the environments and the agents that are most often associated with injury. Because intentional injuries involve extremely complex and aberrant behavior, there is a persistent concern that attempts to modify the environment (e.g., handgun control) will be overridden by those with a high level of intent, i.e., they will seek another method. Although this may be true for carefully premeditated acts, suicide attempts and assaults by youth are usually precipitated by an acute stressor that depends on the availability of a weapon at that immediate time. While we develop more sophisticated psychosocial epidemiologic models that accurately predict violent behavior, we must continue to analyze aspects of intentional injuries that offer an opportunity to reduce the injury severity after the injury has occurred. Pediatricians and other health providers of children have played three important historical roles in the field of injury control. As clinicians, we have a unique opportunity to discuss these concerns with our patients and use our influence to attempt to modify individual behavior and inform about risks. As investigators, pediatricians have been important advocates of research initiatives to use the same epidemiologic methods used to study infectious diseases and cancer and apply them to the study of injury. Finally, pediatricians have played a critical public policy role in the evolution of injury control. Pediatricians have been at the helm behind most legislative initiatives to reduce injury among all people.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Tales publicly allowed: competence, capacity, and religious belief.	What should we make of someone whose beliefs prevent her from accurately understanding her medical needs and care? Should that person still make her own health care decisions? In fact, she probably lacks decision-making capacity. But that does not mean she is not competent.
Aggressive behaviour on acute psychiatric wards: prevalence, severity and management.	This paper reports a study to investigate the nature and prevalence of inpatient aggressive behaviour directed at staff and other patients and, in the case of patient self-harm, the methods used by nursing staff to manage this.
Childhood abuse, adult alcohol use disorders and suicidal behaviour.	Childhood abuse is linked to a variety of maladaptive outcomes that can extend far into adulthood. Two of the most significant are alcohol use disorders and suicidal ideation/behaviour. This article explores the pathway from childhood abuse to suicidal behaviour through the development of alcohol use disorders, and examines the significance of a familial history of alcohol misuse in exacerbating suicidal behaviour in adults who were abused as children. It discusses the implications of this pathway, and describes areas of focus for those who work with child abuse victims and/or patients experiencing alcohol use disorders. Practitioners working with children or adolescents who have experienced or are experiencing abuse should take a preventative approach, identifying and treating those at risk for alcohol misuse and/or suicide. Practitioners working with adults who are already abusing alcohol and/or are suicidal should work with the adult to identify and examine life events such as abuse that may be responsible. By identifying factors that have led to the misuse of alcohol and/or suicidal ideation, adults can obtain appropriate psychotherapy and deal in a more productive and beneficial manner with the pain that underlies their self-destructive impulses.
Further examination of factors that influence preference for positive versus negative reinforcement.	Factors that influence choice between qualitatively different reinforcers (e.g., a food item or a break from work) are important to consider when arranging treatments for problem behavior. Previous findings indicate that children who engage in problem behavior maintained by escape from demands may choose a food item over the functional reinforcer during treatment (DeLeon, Neidert, Anders, & Rodriguez-Catter, 2001; Lalli et al., 1999). However, a number of variables may influence choice between concurrently available forms of reinforcement. An analogue for treatment situations in which positive reinforcement for compliance is in direct competition with negative reinforcement for problem behavior was used in the current study to evaluate several variables that may influence choice. Participants were 5 children who had been diagnosed with developmental disabilities and who engaged in problem behavior maintained by escape from demands. In the first phase, the effects of task preference and schedule of reinforcement on choice between a 30-s break and a high-preference food item were evaluated. The food item was preferred over the break, regardless of the preference level of the task or the reinforcement schedule, for all but 1 participant. In the second phase, the quality of the break was manipulated by combining escape with toys, attention, or both. Only 1 participant showed preference for the enriched break. In the third phase, choice of a medium- or low-preference food item versus the enriched break was evaluated. Three of 4 participants showed preference for the break over the less preferred food item. Results extend previous research by identifying some of the conditions under which individuals who engage in escape-maintained behavior will prefer a food reinforcer over the functional one.
Assessment and treatment of problem behavior occasioned by interruption of free-operant behavior.	The current study describes the assessment and treatment of the problem behavior of 3 individuals with autism for whom initial functional analysis results were inconclusive. Subsequent analyses revealed that the interruption of free-operant behavior using "do" requests (Study 1) as well as "do" and "don't" requests (Study 2) occasioned problem behavior. Initially, treatment involved differential and noncontingent reinforcement without interruption. To make the intervention more sustainable in the natural environment (where interruptions are unavoidable), a two-component multiple-schedule arrangement was used to progressively increase the period of time in which ongoing activities would be interrupted. During generalization sessions, the intervention was applied across a variety of contexts and therapists.
The effects of videotape modeling on staff acquisition of functional analysis methodology.	Lectures and two types of video modeling were compared to determine their relative effectiveness in training 3 staff members to conduct functional analysis sessions. Video modeling that contained a larger number of therapist exemplars resulted in mastery-level performance eight of the nine times it was introduced, whereas neither lectures nor partial video modeling produced significant improvements in performance. Results demonstrated that video modeling provided an effective training strategy but only when a wide range of exemplars of potential therapist behaviors were depicted in the videotape.
The devil is in the details: self-neglect in Australia.	Although elder self-neglect is of significant concern to adult protective service (APS) workers in the United States, minimal research has been conducted on this topic in Australia. Using qualitative research methods, this article examines how 24 Australian professionals understand situations of self-neglect. Unlike in the United States, where the term self-neglect is used in a broad and all-encompassing manner, participants in this research differentiated among self-neglect (the neglect of self), squalor (extreme neglect of environment), collecting (the accumulation of certain objects), and hoarding (the inability to throw objects away). It is argued that separating out the various behaviors that are classified under the broad umbrella of neglect can be useful in fostering reflective interventions in these situations.
"Twiddler syndrome" in two patients with deep brain stimulation.	Twiddler syndrome occurs when a patient intentionally or unintentionally manipulates an implantable generator (usually a pacemaker) and dislodges the pacing leads, causing malfunction of the device. Though the syndrome has been described in patients with pacemakers, to our knowledge only one spontaneous case has been described in patients undergoing deep brain stimulation for movement disorders. We report the clinical cases of two patients with Parkinson's disease who had subthalamic bilateral electrodes implanted and presented the twiddler syndrome 2 and 3 years after surgery. We analysed the possible mechanisms of this syndrome and note that twiddler syndrome should be suspected in patients undergoing deep brain stimulation and showing hardware dysfunction.
The choking game and YouTube: a dangerous combination.	To study postings of partial asphyxiation by adolescents on YouTube and to increase awareness of this dangerous activity as well as the value of YouTube as a research tool.
The predictive value of risk categorization in schizophrenia.	Risk assessment is increasingly used to inform decisions regarding the psychiatric treatment of patients with schizophrenia and other serious mental disorders.
Longitudinal trends in using physical interventions to manage aggression and self-harm in mental health services.	Repetitive aggression by a patient receiving mental health inpatient care is likely to elicit various patterns of response from care staff over time. This study sought to examine patterns of coercive physical intervention in relation to repeated episodes of aggression by particular patients.
Ethical dilemmas in social work practice with disabled people: the use of physical restraint.	This article discusses the use of restraint with disabled adults and children and uses a case study of one particular child to explore issues related to the use of restraint, including the consent of the person subjected to restraint, their human rights, and the balancing of these rights with the need to reduce the risk of harm. The case study involves a young woman who requested to be restrained in a particular way and the challenges this posed to the staff caring for her. The article concludes that in many complex situations there is no clearly right approach to take, and each situation involving restraint must be considered on an individual case-by-case basis.
Implementing Dialectical Behaviour Therapy: programme survival in routine healthcare settings.	The National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence recommends considering Dialectical Behaviour Therapy (DBT), an efficacious treatment for borderline personality disorder, especially when reduction in self-harm is a clinical priority [ NCCMH (2009) . Borderline Personality Disorder: Treatment and Management. Leicester: The British Psychological Society and the Royal College of Psychiatrists]. Treatment teams began using DBT in the UK in 1994. Concerns have been raised, however, about the sustainability of DBT programmes in routine clinical practice [Pitman, A., & Tyrer, P. (2008). Implementing clinical guidelines for self-harm - highlighting key issues arising from the NICE guideline for self-harm. Psychology and Psychotherapy: Theory, Research and Practice, 81, 377-397].
A cluster randomised controlled trial to determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of classroom-based cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) in reducing symptoms of depression in high-risk adolescents.	Depression in adolescents is a significant problem that impairs everyday functioning and increases the risk of severe mental health disorders in adulthood. Although this is a major problem, relatively few adolescents with, or at risk of developing, depression are identified and referred for treatment. This suggests the need to investigate alternative approaches whereby preventative interventions are made widely available in schools.
Systems Training for Emotional Predictability and Problem Solving (STEPPS): program efficacy and personality features as predictors of drop-out -- an Italian study.	In this study we present a clinical application of the STEPPS model in an Italian sample of severely affected patients with borderline personality disorder (BPD) or personality disorder (PD) with prominent borderline features in comorbidity with a mood disorder. The aims of this work are: 1) to confirm our preliminary results in a larger sample and at a 12-month follow-up, and 2) to identify predictors of drop-out vs completion of STEPPS in order to understand which characteristics of patients make them suitable or not for this treatment. The sample is composed of 32 subjects recruited from a population of inpatients of the Mood Disorders Center, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Hospital San Raffaele-Turro, Milan. To confirm STEPPS efficacy at 12-month follow-up, we selected the following outcome criteria: reduction in the number of hospitalizations related to self-harm acts; reduction in the number of suicidal attempts; reduction of perceived emotional intensity levels; changes in cognitive filter scores; changes in the scores on self-report questionnaires. To identify predictors of drop-out vs completion, we analysed the following variables: demographic features (sex, marital status, school level achieved, and job status); Axis-I diagnosis; Axis-II categorical and dimensional diagnosis; and personality features. Seventeen (53%) subjects completed the treatment successfully. The drop-out rate was 47%. Patients who completed the program show a significant decrease in the number of hospitalizations, both at the end of the treatment and at 12-month follow-up. Friedman ANOVA test shows a significant decrease in suicidal attempts during and after STEPPS, and at 12-month follow-up. Analysis of drop-outs showed no significant differences with regard to sex, marital status, school level and job status between the two groups. Axis-I and Axis-II categorical diagnoses did not discriminate between the two groups. Those patients who dropped differ significantly from completers in histrionic personality traits and magical thinking index, given by the interaction between low scores in Self-Directedness and high scores in Self-Transcendence. 
Patients subject to high levels of coercion: staff's understanding.	Measures to keep staff and patients safe (containment) frequently involve coercion. A small proportion of patients is subject to a large proportion of containment use. To reduce the use of containment, we need a better understanding of the circumstances in which it is used and the understandings of patients and staff. Two sweeps were made of all the wards, spread over four hospital sites, in one large London mental health organization to identify patients who had been subject to high levels of containment in the previous two weeks. Data were then extracted from their case notes about their past history, current problem behaviours, and how they were understood by the patients involved and the staff. Nurses and consultant psychiatrists were interviewed to supplement the information from the case records. Twenty-six heterogeneous patients were identified, with many ages, genders, diagnoses, and psychiatric specialities represented. The main problem behaviours giving rise to containment use were violence and self-harm. The roots of the problem behaviours were to be found in severe psychiatric symptoms, cognitive difficulties, personality traits, and the implementation of the internal structure of the ward by staff. Staff's range and depth of understandings was limited and did not include functional analysis, defence mechanisms, specific cognitive assessment, and other potential frameworks. There is a need for more in-depth assessment and understanding of patients' problems, which may lead to additional ways to reduce containment use. 
Therapeutic shock device (TSD): clinical evaluation with self-injurious behaviors.	A man with profound mental retardation and multiple topographies of severe self-injurious behavior (SIB) had been receiving contingent shock for SIB for 2 years before the study started. Shock was being delivered with a handheld shock stick (Hot Shot Sabre Six), which produced burns to the man's skin. SIB rate, without a shock contingency, was 10 responses/min. The Therapeutic Shock Device (TSD), worn by the client and remotely operated by a radio frequency signal, provided superior control of SIB (0.02 responses/min) compared with the shock stick (0.06 responses/min) without causing tissue damage. TSD treatment was introduced in a mixed multiple baseline design across times, settings, and behaviors. The client did not appear to find the TSD aversive. To the contrary, his behaviors indicated that he preferred to wear it. The TSD appeared to provide a substitute for restraint, the hypothesized reinforcer for the man's most frequent form of SIB.
A preliminary procedure for predicting the positive and negative effects of reinforcement-based procedures.	In the current investigation, a modification was made to the preference assessment described by Pace, Ivancic, Edwards, Iwata, and Page (1985) to predict the effects of stimuli when used in a differential-reinforcement-of-other-behavior (DRO) schedule for 2 clients with severe self-injurious behavior (SIB) and profound mental retardation. Based on the results of the preference assessment, three types of stimuli were identified: (a) high-preference stimuli associated with high rates of SIB (HP/HS), (b) high-preference stimuli associated with relatively lower rates of SIB (HP/LS), and (c)low-preference stimuli associated with low rates of SIB (LP/LS). Consistent with the results of the preference assessment, the DRO schedule with HP/HS stimuli resulted in increased SIB, and the DRO schedule with LP/LS stimuli resulted in no change in SIB when used in a DRO schedule. Thus, the stimulus preference assessment may be useful clinically in some situations for predicting both the beneficial and the negative side effects of stimuli in DRO procedures.
Responding maintained by intermittent reinforcement: implications for the use of extinction with problem behavior in clinical settings.	Results of basic research have demonstrated that behavior maintained on an intermittent schedule of reinforcement (INT) will be extinguished more slowly than behavior maintained on a continuous schedule (CRF). Although these findings suggest that problem behaviors may be difficult to treat with extinction if they have been maintained on INT rather than on CRF schedules, few applied studies have examined this phenomenon with human behavior in clinical settings. The purpose of this study was to determine whether problem behavior maintained on CRF schedules would be extinguished more rapidly than behavior maintained on INT schedules. Three individuals diagnosed with profound mental retardation participated after results of pretreatment functional analyses had identified the sources of reinforcement that were maintaining their self-injury, aggression, or disruption. Subjects were exposed to extinction following baseline conditions with CRF or INT schedules alternated within reversal or multielement designs. Results suggested that problem behavior may not be more difficult to treat with extinction if they have been maintained on INT rather than CRF schedules. However, switching from an INT to a CRF schedule prior to extinction may lower the baseline response rate as well as the total number of responses exhibited during extinction.
The treatment of covert self-injury through contingencies on response products.	Assessment and treatment of covert self-injurious behavior are complicated because it is difficult to quantify and apply differential consequences to covert responses. In this study, both tangible and social reinforcers were identified using reinforcer assessment methods. These reinforcers were then provided contingent upon the absence of tissue damage identified during physical examinations, resulting in near 100% success in physical assessment checks that was maintained over 10 months.
A comparison of simultaneous and delayed reinforcement as treatments for food selectivity.	This study compared the relative efficacy of providing simultaneous or delayed reinforcement on food acceptance during meals. The participant was a 7 year-old boy with pervasive developmental disorder and a history of food selectivity. Results indicated that both procedures were effective in increasing acceptance; however, the simultaneous reinforcement procedure produced more rapid behavior change and a higher overall percentage of food acceptance.
Physical restraint procedures for managing challenging behaviours presented by mentally retarded adults and children.	This paper reviews the published research literature on the use of physical restraint with mentally retarded adults and children. Research on three types of restraint is included. One type involves one or more person(s) holding another. A second method is where a mechanical device is fitted to limit movement or reduce injury. The third type is where the person voluntarily applies a personal or mechanical restraint. The following conclusions emerged: (a) there are numerous processes which contribute to the outcomes associated with restraint, and these are poorly understood; (b) different processes mediate the outcomes for contingent and noncontingent restraint; (c) both noncontingent and contingent restraint can result in long-term reductions in target behaviours, especially when fading procedures are employed (noncontingent restraint) and where staff or carers are involved in the treatment plan (contingent restraint); (d) self-restraint seems to be maintained by the reinforcing effects of the restraint procedure or by escape from the aversive consequences of self-injury; (e) there are (negative) reinforcing consequences for staff who use restraint procedures in service settings; (f) and both staff and clients risk injury, especially from emergency or unplanned restraint.
