In vitro shear bond strength of dual-curing resin cements to two different high-strength ceramic materials with different surface texture.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the shear bond strength (SBS) of two dual-curing resin cements to two high-strength ceramics with different surface texture.
Setting kinetics and shrinkage of self-adhesive resin cements depend on cure-mode and temperature.	To investigate the influence of curing mode and temperature on the shrinkage kinetics of self-adhesive resin cements in comparison to a conventional multi-step resin cement.
Influence of zirconia base and shade difference on polymerization efficiency of dual-cure resin cement.	The aim of this study was to investigate the polymerization efficiency of dual-cured resin cement beneath different shades of zirconia-based feldsphathic ceramic restorations.
Tensile bond strength of three dual-cure bonding systems.	The purpose of this study was to test and compare the tensile bond strength of three dual-cure bonding systems on dentinal surfaces.
Comparing the effectiveness of self-curing and light curing in polymerization of dual-cured core buildup materials.	The authors conducted an in vitro study to investigate the influence of various curing protocols on subsurface microhardness of dual-cured resin-based composites.
Influence of polymerization mode and C-factor on cohesive strength of dual-cured resin cements.	The aim of this study is to determine the influence of the C-factor and the mode of polymerization on the cohesive strength of various dual-cure resin cements.
Fracture resistance of manually and CAD/CAM manufactured ceramic onlays.	This in vitro study aimed to evaluate fracture resistance in lithium disilicate onlays fabricated with IPS e.max Press and IPS e.max CAD systems and luted with different adhesive cements.
Survival of bonded lingual retainers with chemical or photo polymerization over a 2-year period: a single-center, randomized controlled clinical trial.	The objective of this trial was to compare the survival rates of mandibular lingual retainers bonded with either chemically cured or light-cured adhesive after orthodontic treatment.
The influence of four dual-cure resin cements and surface treatment selection to bond strength of fiber post.	In this study, we evaluate the influence of post surface pre-treatments on the bond strength of four different cements to glass fiber posts. Eighty extracted human maxillary central incisors and canines were endodontically treated and standardized post spaces were prepared. Four post pre-treatments were tested: (i) no pre-treatment (NS, control), (ii) sandblasting (SA), (iii) silanization (SI) and (iv) sandblasting followed by silanization (SS). Per pre-treatment, four dual-cure resin cements were used for luting posts: DMG LUXACORE Smartmix Dual, Multilink Automix, RelyX Unicem and Panavia F2.0. All the specimens were subjected to micro push-out test. Two-way analysis of variance and Tukey post hoc tests were performed (α=0.05) to analyze the data. Bond strength was significantly affected by the type of resin cement, and bond strengths of RelyX Unicem and Panavia F2.0 to the fiber posts were significantly higher than the other cement groups. Sandblasting significantly increased the bond strength of DMG group to the fiber posts. 
