Possession of assistive devices is related to improved psychological well-being in patients with rheumatic conditions.	To investigate the relationship between the possession of assistive devices and psychological well-being in patients with rheumatic conditions.
"I have chosen to live life abundantly": perceptions of leisure by adults who use augmentative and alternative communication.	An online focus group was used to investigate perceptions of eight adults with cerebral palsy who used AAC systems about their recreation activities and leisure experiences. Six themes emerged from discussions on benefits of leisure and community recreation: improved physical health, enjoyment, improved mental health, increased independence, enhanced social connections, and education of society. Nine barriers to leisure participation were identified including: personal, social, communication, technology, financial, accessibility, safety, transportation, and personal care attendants. Despite numerous barriers to leisure, participants described six supports that helped them overcome these barriers: personal, social, family, personal care attendants, AAC devices, and other assistive technologies. Participants provided recommendations for other individuals who use AAC, their families, and service providers.
The Psychosocial Impact of Assistive Devices Scale (PIADS): translation and psychometric evaluation of a Chinese (Taiwanese) version.	Chinese language instruments for measuring the impact of assistive technology are needed. This article reports on the development and preliminary evaluation of a Chinese (Taiwanese) translation of the Psychosocial Impact of Assistive Devices Scale.
Exploration of health perceptions and assistive technology use by driving status as related to transportation independence in New Delhi, India.	This study investigates travel tendencies among people with disabilities and senior citizens in New Delhi, India to reveal relationships between the desire for transportation independence, use of assistive technology for mobility, travel frequency, and satisfaction with available modes of transportation.
Improving computer usage for students with physical disabilities through a collaborative approach: a pilot study.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of an assistive technology (AT) intervention to improve the use of available computers as assistive technology in educational tasks for students with physical disabilities during an ongoing school year.
Translation of evidence-based Assistive Technologies into stroke rehabilitation: users' perceptions of the barriers and opportunities.	Assistive Technologies (ATs), defined as "electrical or mechanical devices designed to help people recover movement", demonstrate clinical benefits in upper limb stroke rehabilitation; however translation into clinical practice is poor. Uptake is dependent on a complex relationship between all stakeholders. Our aim was to understand patients', carers' (P&Cs) and healthcare professionals' (HCPs) experience and views of upper limb rehabilitation and ATs, to identify barriers and opportunities critical to the effective translation of ATs into clinical practice. This work was conducted in the UK, which has a state funded healthcare system, but the findings have relevance to all healthcare systems.
