Examining report content and social categorization to understand consistency effects on credibility.	This experiment examined the importance of report content and the role of social categorization in consistency effects on perceived credibility. Community volunteers (N = 374) evaluated the credibility of an adult who described a common, mundane event (everyday event) or a highly unusual, emotional event (intimate partner abuse, IPA) with one of two levels of report consistency. Participants evaluated consistent complainants and persons reporting everyday events more favorably than inconsistent complainants and IPA complainants, respectively. Findings suggest that social categorization fully mediates content effects on credibility. Participants viewed persons reporting everyday events as more similar, more likely to belong to the same group as themselves, and more credible compared to complainants reporting IPA. Social categorization was a weaker mediator of the relationship between consistency and credibility.
Primary care providers’ judgments of opioid analgesic misuse in a community-based cohort of HIV-infected indigent adults.	Primary care providers (PCPs) must balance treatment of chronic non-cancer pain with opioid analgesics with concerns about opioid misuse.
Reverse causality in the association between whiplash and symptoms of anxiety and depression: the HUNT study.	Longitudinal population-based cohort study.
Health-related quality of life in children and adolescents with stroke, self-reports, and parent/proxies reports: cross-sectional investigation.	Limited data are available on health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) in pediatric stroke survivors. The aim of the present study was to assess HR-QoL by self-assessment and parent/proxy-assessment in children and adolescents who survived a first stroke episode.
Validated tools for evaluating opioid-induced bowel dysfunction.	Adverse effects on the gastrointestinal system are problematic for pain patients receiving opioid treatment. Opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (OIBD) is often misinterpreted as constipation as this is the most frequently reported symptom of OIBD; however, it actually comprises the whole gut with symptoms such as nausea, reflux, bloating, and anorexia being very prevalent as well. Validated methods to evaluate these symptoms are essential before the action of a drug on bowel dysfunction can be evaluated, but only the effect on the most frequently reported symptom, constipation, has been evaluated systematically. Constipation is a personal symptom and there is little correlation between subjective methods for assessment of constipation and objective evaluations, such as transit time and fecal loading. Few questionnaires specific to constipation exist, since most that are regularly used form part of general gastrointestinal investigations, which furthermore are often complicated and time consuming to complete. This article gives an overview of the different evaluation regimes for OIBD with a particular focus on the most frequently reported symptom; constipation.
A brief neuropsychological battery for use in the chronic heart failure population.	Cognitive impairment is a recognized consequence of heart failure; however, there are no neuropsychological batteries with documented psychometric data in the chronic heart failure population.
Psychotic-like experiences in a community sample of 8000 children aged 9 to 11 years: an item response theory analysis.	Psychotic-like experiences (PLEs) in the general population are common, particularly in childhood, and may constitute part of a spectrum of normative development. Nevertheless, these experiences confer increased risk for later psychotic disorder, and are associated with poorer health and quality of life.
Quality of information on adverse events provided by the surgical patient]	To determine whether patients are a good information source on the occurrence of adverse events (AE).
Developing a self-reported physical fitness survey.	Physical fitness measures indicate health status, and these can be used to improve management of overall health.
Computed nasal resistance compared with patient-reported symptoms in surgically treated nasal airway passages: a preliminary report.	Nasal airway obstruction (NAO) is a common health condition impacting mood, energy, recreation, sleep, and overall quality of life. Nasal surgery often addresses NAO but the results are sometimes unsatisfactory. Evaluating surgical treatment efficacy could be improved if objective tests were available that correlated with patient-reported measures of symptoms. The goal of this study was to develop methods for comparing nasal resistance computed by computational fluid dynamics (CFD) models with patient-reported symptoms of NAO using early data from a 4-year prospective study.
Is self-rated health a valid measure to use in social inequities and health research? Evidence from the PAPFAM women's data in six Arab countries.	Some evidence from high-income countries suggests that self-rated health (SRH) is not a consistent predictor of objective health across social groups, and that its use may lead to inaccurate estimates of the effects of inequities on health. Given increased interest in studying and monitoring social inequities in health worldwide, the aim of the present study was to evaluate the validity of SRH as a consistent measure of health across socioeconomic categories in six Arab countries.
Recommendations for incorporating patient-reported outcomes into clinical comparative effectiveness research in adult oncology.	Examining the patient's subjective experience in prospective clinical comparative effectiveness research (CER) of oncology treatments or process interventions is essential for informing decision making. Patient-reported outcome (PRO) measures are the standard tools for directly eliciting the patient experience. There are currently no widely accepted standards for developing or implementing PRO measures in CER. Recommendations for the design and implementation of PRO measures in CER were developed via a standardized process including multistakeholder interviews, a technical working group, and public comments. Key recommendations are to include assessment of patient-reported symptoms as well as health-related quality of life in all prospective clinical CER studies in adult oncology; to identify symptoms relevant to a particular study population and context based on literature review and/or qualitative and quantitative methods; to assure that PRO measures used are valid, reliable, and sensitive in a comparable population (measures particularly recommended include EORTC QLQ-C30, FACT, MDASI, PRO-CTCAE, and PROMIS); to collect PRO data electronically whenever possible; to employ methods that minimize missing patient reports and include a plan for analyzing and reporting missing PRO data; to report the proportion of responders and cumulative distribution of responses in addition to mean changes in scores; and to publish results of PRO analyses simultaneously with other clinical outcomes. Twelve core symptoms are recommended for consideration in studies in advanced or metastatic cancers. Adherence to methodologic standards for the selection, implementation, and analysis/reporting of PRO measures will lead to an understanding of the patient experience that informs better decisions by patients, providers, regulators, and payers.
An examination of the factor structure of the Elemental Psychopathy Assessment.	The Elemental Psychopathy Assessment (EPA) is a self-report measure designed to assess the basic elements of psychopathy from a Five-Factor Model perspective. Using two large undergraduate samples, the aim of the current study was to further validate this new measure by examining its factor structure and the relations of the factors with established psychopathy measures and externalizing behaviors (Sample 2 only). Exploratory factor analytic results were highly consistent across the two samples and generated a four-factor structure characterized by Antagonism, Emotional Stability, Disinhibition, and Narcissism. These factors converged as expected with factors from alternative self-report conceptualizations of psychopathy and externalizing behaviors. The EPA factors also provided incremental validity in the prediction of the alternative psychopathy measures and externalizing behaviors above and beyond the other psychopathy measures. The stable factor structure and relations with constructs relevant to the study of psychopathy provide further support for the EPA as a stand-alone, comprehensive assessment of psychopathic personality.
Health-related quality of life in traumatic brain injury: is a proxy report necessary?	Despite its importance to care, clinicians and researchers often discount patient-reported outcomes in favor of proxy reports, in persons with traumatic brain injury (TBI). The rationale relates to concerns about lack of awareness of patients regarding their functioning. However, although lack of awareness occurs in some patients with severe TBI, or in TBI involving certain lesion locations, or very soon after injury, this conclusion has been overgeneralized. The objective of this study is to determine the validity of patient-reported health-related quality of life by evaluating its relationship to injury severity and more objective indices of outcome, in a representative series of adults with TBI. A consecutive sample of 374 persons with TBI at least 14 years old, and having a post-resuscitation Glasgow Coma Scale score ≤12, an acute seizure, or a CT scan showing TBI- related findings. Seventy-six percent (374/491) of the eligible survivors were assessed at 6 months post-injury on the Life Satisfaction Survey. The greatest decrease in satisfaction was in the ability to think and remember, work, receive adequate income, and participate in leisure and recreational activities. Dissatisfaction significantly related to the functional limitation in that area as judged by the patients themselves (p<0.001) or by someone who knew them well (p≤0.001). The most severely injured group reported the most dissatisfaction for 13 out of 17 areas assessed. Patients with TBI, in general, do not need a proxy to report on their behalf regarding their functional limitations or health-related quality of life.
The Communicative Participation Item Bank (CPIB): item bank calibration and development of a disorder-generic short form.	The purpose of this study was to calibrate the items for the Communicative Participation Item Bank (CPIB; Baylor, Yorkston, Eadie, Miller, & Amtmann, 2009; Yorkston et al., 2008) using item response theory (IRT). One overriding objective was to examine whether the IRT item parameters would be consistent across different diagnostic groups, thereby allowing creation of a disorder-generic instrument. The intended outcomes were the final item bank and a short form ready for clinical and research applications.
Different factors influence self-reports and third-party reports of anger by adults with intellectual disabilities.	Many people with intellectual disabilities display high levels of anger, and cognitive-behavioural anger management interventions are used routinely. However, for these methods to be used optimally, a better understanding is needed of different forms of anger assessment. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship of a range of measures to self- and carer reports of anger expression, including instruments used to assess mental health and challenging behaviour.
A brief inpatient measure of global psychiatric symptom severity: initial validation of the Brief Symptom Measure-25 for an adolescent inpatient sample.	Adolescent psychiatry is experiencing a growing need for brief yet psychometrically robust outcome measures for inpatient settings. Outcome measures currently available present limitations to clinicians and patients alike in terms of their excessive length, time of completion, difficulty to score, and focus on specific clusters of symptoms. The present study sought to validate the Brief Symptom Measure-25 (BSM-25) as a brief and easily administered measure of global psychiatric symptom severity in adolescent inpatient samples. This study evaluated the results from 154 adolescent inpatients who completed several self-report measures at admission. The findings demonstrate that the instrument has good construct validity when compared with validated measures of psychological health and well-being, behavioral problems, and interpersonal distress. We also showed the sensitivity to change of the BSM-25 from admission to discharge, and we showed that this healthy change was paralleled in several measures (self-reports and clinician ratings), using data from 75 adolescent psychiatric inpatients who were assessed at admission and also at discharge. Although this is only the first step in the validation of this measure for an adolescent inpatient setting, the BSM-25 shows promise as a brief outcome measure of global psychiatric symptom severity while maintaining validity and instrument sensitivity. 
Does beverage type and drinking context matter in an alcohol-related injury? Evidence from emergency department patients in Latin America.	Previous studies have already substantiated alcohol's causal role in injuries. Yet the role that alcoholic beverage preferences and the drinking context play in the risk for injury is still under-investigated. In this study, a cross-national comparison of the association between alcohol and injury focusing on beverage type preference and the drinking context is reported.
Readability of self-report alcohol misuse measures.	Self-report measures of alcohol misuse and alcohol use disorders are valuable assessment tools for both research and clinical practice settings. However, readability is often overlooked when establishing the validity of these measures, which may result in measures written at a reading-grade level that is higher than the ability level of many potential respondents. The aim of the current study was to estimate the reading-grade level of validated measures of alcohol misuse and associated problems.
