Paraventricular neuron chemosensitivity and activity related to blood pressure control in emotional behavior.	1. Unit activity in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and blood pressure (BP) of the rat were recorded during discrimination learning of cue tone (CTS+) predicting reward [glucose and intracranial self stimulation (ICSS)], and cue tone (CTS-) predicting aversion (electric shock or tail pinch). Adrenergic systems in the PVN were investigated by electrophoretic application of norepinephrine (NE), and by electrophoretic application or direct microinjection of its antagonists (prazosin, yohimbine, and propranolol). 2. Of 65 PVN neurons analyzed, 35 responded during CTS learning in one or more phases of an operant task. Of these, activity of 20 neurons was increased nondiscriminatively by CTS+ and CTS-, and reward and aversion. In parallel with these neuronal activity increases, BP (systolic, diastolic, and mean) was also increased by both CTS+ and CTS- (10-35 mmHg), and reward and aversion (20-47 mmHg). Both neuronal activity and BP increases during CTS learning were suppressed during extinction. 3. Paraventricular neurons, the activity of which correlated with BP increase during CTS learning, were excited by electrophoretic application of NE and Na+ and fired phasically during inter-trial intervals. Activity increases of these neurons during CTS learning, which was related to BP increase, were blocked by electrophoretically applied prazosin (alpha 1-antagonist), but not by yohimbine (alpha 2-antagonist) or propranolol (beta-antagonist). 4. Direct microinjection of prazosin into the PVN suppressed BP increase during CTS learning. Operant licking for reward was not suppressed by prazosin injection. Microinjection of yohimbine or propranolol into the PVN did not suppress either BP increase during CTS learning or operant licking to obtain reward. 5. These results suggest that afferent alpha 1-adrenergic input to the PVN is important to the central BP control during CTS learning in emotional behavior.
Effects of kappa-opioid receptor ligands on intracranial self-stimulation in rats.	Elevations in cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) function within the mesolimbic system of rats reduce cocaine reward in place conditioning studies and increase immobility in the forced swim test. Each of these behavioral adaptations can be interpreted as a depressive-like effect (i.e., anhedonia, despair) that may reflect reduced activity of brain reward systems. Furthermore, each effect appears due to increases in CREB-mediated expression of dynorphin, since each is attenuated by intracranial injections of the kappa-opioid receptor antagonist norBNI.
Early developmental exposure to methylphenidate reduces cocaine-induced potentiation of brain stimulation reward in rats.	Methylphenidate (MPH) is prescribed for the treatment of attention and hyperactivity disorders. We showed previously that early developmental exposure to MPH in rats causes behavioral alterations during adulthood, including reduced cocaine reward in place conditioning studies. Here we examined if early MPH exposure alters the ability of cocaine to potentiate the rewarding effects of electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) using intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS).
Catecholamine and acetylcholine sensitivity of rat lateral hypothalamic neurons related to learning.	1. Unit activity in the rat lateral hypothalamus (LHA) was recorded during discrimination learning of cue tone (CTS) or cue light (CL) stimulation that predicted reward by glucose or intracranial self stimulation (ICSS), or aversion by weak electric shock or tail pinch. Roles of the catecholaminergic and cholinergic systems in the LHA were investigated by electrophoretic application of dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE), acetylcholine (ACh), and their antagonists [spiperone (SPP), phenoxybenzamine (PBZ), phentolamine, propranolol, and atropine (Atr)]. 2. Activity of 264 LHA neurons was recorded. Of these, 234 (89%) responded during CTS learning in one or more phases. Of 121 neurons tested by both rewarding and aversive stimuli, 86 (71%) discriminated reward and aversion and their respective CTSs. 3. Effects of DA on 138, NE on 134, and ACh on 73 neurons were tested. Among these, 67 were tested with all three. DA inhibited 40 and excited 14. NE inhibited 74 and excited 10. ACh excited 35 and inhibited 3. DA-sensitive neurons responded to both NE (P less than 0.001) and ACh (P less than 0.05) more often than DA-insensitive neurons. In most cases, the effect of DA was similar to the effect of NE, and opposite to the effect of ACh. The inhibitory effect of DA was blocked by SPP, a D2 antagonist, and the excitatory effect of ACh was blocked by Atr. The inhibitory effect of NE was blocked by the beta-antagonist, propranolol, and enhanced by the alpha-antagonist, phentolamine. 4. DA-sensitive neurons responded to both rewarding and aversive stimuli and respective CTS+ and CTS- more often than DA-insensitive neurons (P less than 0.01). The effect of DA was usually similar to the effect of rewarding stimuli and their predicting CTS+ and was opposite to the effect of aversive stimuli and their predicting CTS-. 5. The proportion of NE-sensitive neurons that responded to rewarding and aversive stimuli was the same as the proportion of NE-insensitive neurons that responded to the same stimuli. NE-sensitive neurons responded to CTS+ and CTS- more often than NE-insensitive neurons (P less than 0.01). The effect of NE was usually similar to the effect of rewarding stimuli and predicting CTS+, and opposite to the effect of aversive stimuli and predicting CTS-. 6. ACh-sensitive neurons responded to aversive stimuli and predicting CTS- more often than ACh-insensitive neurons (P less than 0.01), but the response ratio of ACh-sensitive neurons to rewarding stimuli was similar to that of ACh-sensitive neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Effects of amphetamine and nomifensine on intracranial self-stimulation discrimination behavior in rats.	Rats implanted with electrodes in the medial forebrain bundle-lateral hypothalamus were trained in a discrete trial procedure to make a differential response (right or left lever press) in the presence or absence of brain stimulation [intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS)]. When animals reached a high level of accuracy (95% correct) in the discrimination task, testing was begun. In the first experiment, we compared the effects of saline and 0.3 mg/kg d-amphetamine when the intertrial interval (ITI) was 1, 5, 10, and 15 s. In the second experiment, animals were tested either with saline, 0.3 mg/kg d-amphetamine, or 1, 3, or 10 mg/kg nomifensine and the ITI was held constant at 5 s. Increasing the ITI from 1-15 s did not produce a drug-induced change in the discriminative stimulus properties of ICSS, although it did produce changes in total numbers of lever presses and numbers of intertrial lever presses. In the second experiment, neither d-amphetamine nor nomifensine altered the discriminative stimulus properties of ICSS, but a dose-response increase occurred in the time to complete the test session and in total number of lever presses and in presses on the initiating lever. Under conditions known to increase extracellular dopamine (DA) levels in brain, both amphetamine and nomifensine produced large increases in locomotor activity, but neither drug produced changes in the detection threshold for ICSS. Results indicated that the internal cues produced by ICSS are different from those produced by these psychomotor stimulant drugs.
Modelling drug kinetics with brain stimulation: dopamine antagonists increase self-stimulation.	The rewarding effects of brain stimulation and drugs are believed to depend on a common neural system. However, the pattern of responding produced by drug reinforcers is different from the pattern produced by conventional brain stimulation. Furthermore, pharmacological antagonists of reinforcement increase the rate of drug self-administration but depress self-stimulation. To test the hypothesis that the differences in the characteristics of brain stimulation and drugs as reinforcers are due to differences in the kinetics of drugs and brain stimulation, we modelled drug kinetics with frequency-modulated trains of brain stimulation. We report that animals will self-administer such brain stimulation in a manner that resembles drug self-administration and that, under these conditions, dopamine antagonists can increase the rate of self-stimulation.
Interactions between alcohol and nicotine on intracranial self-stimulation and locomotor activity in rats.	These studies were aimed at investigating interactions between alcohol and nicotine on operant behavior and on locomotor activity. Independent groups of rats with electrodes in the lateral hypothalamus were trained to lever press for intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) on either a fixed-ratio 15 (FR 15), FR 30, fixed-interval 15-second (FI 15-s) or FI 30-s schedule of reinforcement. In the FI 15-s experiment, nicotine increased and alcohol decreased responding. This also happened in the FI 30-s experiment; however, when the two drugs were combined, an increase in lever pressing occurred which was greater than that produced by nicotine alone. Nicotine increased rates in the FR 15 schedule but, when combined with alcohol, did not reverse the decrease in rates produced by alcohol. In the FR 30 schedule, nicotine also increased response rates, but did not reverse the decrease produced by alcohol in this paradigm. A separate group of animals was tested in a locomotor activity apparatus following administration of nicotine, alcohol or their combination. Nicotine increased locomotor activity and alcohol depressed it. However, when 0.10 or 0.17 mg/kg nicotine was combined with 0.3 g/kg alcohol, an increase greater than that produced by nicotine alone occurred. We have found that alcohol and nicotine together can produce a potentiation of nicotine's stimulatory effects depending upon the dose and the requirements of the task.
Effects of nicotine on the threshold for rewarding brain stimulation in rats.	The rewarding effects of nicotine alone and nicotine challenged with mecamylamine, a nicotine receptor blocker, or naloxone were determined using a rate-independent discrete-trial threshold measure of brain-stimulation reward in rats. If nicotine acts as other drugs of abuse, it would be expected to lower the reward threshold, that is, increase an animal's sensitivity to rewarding brain stimulation, and naloxone would be expected to block this effect, as it does other stimulants in this paradigm. Nicotine was found to significantly lower the reward threshold and mecamylamine blocked this effect. However, although naloxone increased the variability of nicotine's effect on the reward threshold, it failed to dose dependently block nicotine's threshold-lowering effect.
Relevance of rodent models of intravenous MDMA self-administration to human MDMA consumption patterns.	Despite decades of research specifying harmful effects produced by 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; a principal component of 'ecstasy' pills), young people (and adults) continue to use it. In an attempt to model human MDMA consumption patterns, preclinical investigators have sought to establish reliable patterns of intravenous MDMA self-administration in rodents.
Astressin blockade of amygdaloid corticoliberin receptors eliminates the stimulating effects of amphetamine, morphine and leu-enkephalin on brain self-stimulation]	Amphetamine (1 mg/kg), morphine (1 mg/kg), and ethaminal sodium (5 mg/kg) activated self-stimulation reaction of lateral hypothalamus in rats. In contrast, intraamygdalary injections of astressin (1 microg/microl), which is a nonselective antagonist of corticoliberin receptors, inhibited this reaction. The astressin blockade of extrahypothalamic corticoliberin receptors in the central nucleus of amygdala modified the effects of various narcogens on self-stimulation reaction. On this background, amphetamine did not activate self-stimulation, ethaminal sodium retained significant psychoactivating effect, whereas the effect of morphine switched from stimulant to depressant. Leu-enkephalin exhibited a stable depressant effect, thus potentiating the action of astressin. The astressin-induced enhancement of the inhibiting action of leu-enkephalin on cerebral self-stimulation is probably related to a temporary switch-off of the activating influence of the central nucleus of amygdala on hypothalamus.
Presynaptic alpha-adenoceptors: the depression of self-stimulation by clonidine and its restoration by piperoxane but not by phentolamine or phenoxybenzamine.	Depression of self-stimulation by clonidine has been ascribed to continuous direct stimulation of alpha-adrenoceptors with consequent disruption of reinforcement signals thought to be conveyed by noradrenergic pathways. This suggestion was tested by administration of alpha-receptor blocking agents (piperoxane, phentolamine and phenoxybenzamine, PBZ) differing in their affinity for pre- and post-synaptic receptor sites. Piperoxane in low doses (0.55-5.0 mg/kg) previously reported to cause specific blockade of pre-synaptic receptors implicated in negative feedback circuits, caused a significant increase in self-stimulation rate and strongly antagonized the depression of self-stimulation by clonidine (0.15 mg/kg). A larger dose of piperoxane (45 mg/kg) and graded doses of phentolamine and PBZ, affecting both pre- and post-synaptic receptors, depressed self-stimulation, and did not antagonize clonidine-induced depression of self-stimulation. It is concluded that depression of self-stimulation by clonidine may depend on clonidine-induced inhibition of NA release exerted via presynaptic receptors, and that the effect of clonidine is not necessarily evidence that noncontingent adrenergic stimulation disrupts reinforcement.
d-Fenfluramine and self-stimulation: loss of inhibitory effect in underweight rats.	The question addressed is whether or not physiological factors associated with body weight, are necessary for serotonergic inhibition of feeding reward. Six rats received the serotonergic drug d-fenfluramine (d-FEN 1.5 and 2.5 mg/kg IP) while they electrically self-stimulated a perifornical lateral hypothalamic (PfLH) site that would induce feeding. As a control, self-stimulation was alternated with stimulation-escape. Both were measured at normal body weight, then at 80% body weight, then normal weight again. Three results were significant. 1) d-FEN markedly suppressed self-stimulation at normal body weight. 2) Self-stimulation rate increased when the animals were put on a diet that reduced body weight to 80% of normal. 3) At this low body weight, d-FEN no longer had any effect on self-stimulation. The results suggest that some correlate of normal food intake or body weight is necessary for serotonergic inhibition of the PfLH feeding-reward system. Possible explanations for fenfluramine's loss of effect at low weight are discussed.
Facilitation of intracranial self-stimulation behavior in rats by environmental stimuli associated with nicotine.	Environmental stimuli associated with nicotine act as a trigger for nicotine-seeking behavior and make it difficult to quit smoking. The trigger action might be related to the activity of the mesolimbic dopamine "reward" system. Thus, in the present study, we investigated the effects of nicotine-associated stimuli on reward seeking, assessed by current intensity thresholds of intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) in rats. Rats were unilaterally implanted with an electrode into the lateral hypothalamus and trained to press a lever to obtain electrical brain stimulation. After stable responses had been established, the rats underwent six conditioning sessions with subcutaneous nicotine at 0.4 mg/kg in particular visual and tactile contexts. The threshold for electrical stimulation was then tested in either the nicotine-conditioned environment or novel environment under saline or nicotine treatment. Nicotine enhanced the responding for ICSS and significantly lowered the threshold in both environments. Under saline treatment, the responding for ICSS was facilitated and the threshold was significantly lower in the nicotine-conditioned environment than in the novel environment. The present results demonstrate that nicotine-conditioned contextual stimuli may affect the mesolimbic dopamine system through ICSS threshold lowering effect.
Blockade of ventral midbrain NMDA receptors enhances brain stimulation reward: a preferential role for GluN2A subunits.	Ventral midbrain (VM) neurons that project to limbic structures play a role in reward and incentive motivation. It has been suggested that a reward-related signal is transmitted when the firing rate of VM dopamine neurons shifts from a tonic to a phasic mode. Since glutamate is necessary for this transduction process, it is likely to play a role in reward signaling. This study was aimed at determining the effect of VM N-Methyl-D-Aspartate (NMDA) receptor blockade on reward induced by electrical brain stimulation. Experiments were performed on rats trained to self-administer an electrical stimulation in the medial posterior mesencephalon. Reward thresholds were measured with the curve-shift paradigm before and after bilateral VM injections of the following NMDA receptor antagonists: R-CPP, 3-(R-2-Carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1 phosphonic acid, (0, 20.6, 41.2 and 82.5 pmol/0.5 μl/side), PPPA, (2R,4S)-4-(3-Phosphonopropyl)-2-piperidinecarboxylic acid, (0, 0.825 and 1.65 nmol/0.5 μl/side) orRo04-5595, 1-[2-(4-Chlorophenyl)ethyl]-1,2,3,4-tetrqahydro-6-methoxy-2-methyl-7-isoquinolinol hydrochloride (0, 0.825, 1.65 nmol/0.5 μl/side). R-CPP and PPPA produced a dose and time dependent decrease in reward threshold, an effect that was, at some doses and times after the injection, accompanied by an increase in maximum responses. These effects were not observed with Ro04-5595 over the range of doses tested. While previous studies suggest a role for glutamate in reward signaling, the present results show that VM glutamate exerts a tonic inhibition on the reward-relevant pathway. The selectivity of Ro04-5595 for NMDA receptors composed of GluN2B subunits and the higher affinity of R-CPP and PPPA for GluN2A suggest that the inhibition is mediated by receptors composed of GluN2A subunits.
Rate-dependent effects of monoamine releasers on intracranial self-stimulation in rats: implications for abuse liability assessment.	'Rate dependency' in the discipline of behavioral pharmacology describes a phenomenon wherein the effect of a drug on the rate of a behavior varies systematically as a function of the baseline, predrug rate of that behavior. Historically, rate-dependency studies have compared drug effects on different baseline rates of behavior maintained either by different schedules of reinforcement or during sequential segments of a fixed-interval schedule. The current experiment generated different baseline rates of behavior by altering frequency of electrical stimulation in an intracranial self-stimulation assay. Amphetamine and 10 other monoamine releasers were analyzed for their ability to produce rate-dependent effects in this assay. There were three main findings. First, all compounds produced rate-dependent effects at some dose. Second, one parameter of rate-dependency plots (peak Y-intercept of the regression line) correlated with in-vitro neurochemical data on selectivity of these compounds to release dopamine versus serotonin (P<0.025, R=0.50). Lastly, a correlation between peak Y-intercept and breakpoints under a progressive-ratio procedure in nonhuman primates was also significant (P<0.05, R=0.64). Overall, these results extend the rate-dependent effects of monoamine releasers to behavior maintained under intracranial self-stimulation and suggest that, at least for monoamine releasers, the Y-intercept parameter of rate-dependency plots might be a useful metric of drug reward and predictor of drug self-administration measures of drug reinforcement. 
Abuse-related effects of µ-opioid analgesics in an assay of intracranial self-stimulation in rats: modulation by chronic morphine exposure.	Intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) is an operant procedure in which responding is maintained by electrical brain stimulation. Stimulation frequency can be varied rapidly to maintain a wide range of baseline response rates, and drugs' effects can be evaluated simultaneously on both low ICSS rates maintained by low stimulation frequencies and high ICSS rates maintained by high stimulation frequencies. ICSS 'facilitation' indicates drug-induced increases in low ICSS rates and is often considered an abuse-related effect, whereas ICSS 'depression' indicates decreases in high ICSS rates and may indicate abuse-limiting effects. This study examined the roles of µ-agonist efficacy and of previous µ-agonist exposure as determinants of µ-agonist effects on ICSS in rats with electrodes implanted into the medial forebrain bundle. The high-efficacy, intermediate-efficacy, and low-efficacy µ agonists methadone, fentanyl, and nalbuphine were tested during escalating regimens of morphine exposure (vehicle, 3.2, and 18 mg/kg/day). During vehicle treatment, methadone and fentanyl primarily depressed ICSS, whereas nalbuphine produced weak facilitation that was not dose dependent. Chronic morphine produced tolerance to ICSS depression and increased expression of ICSS facilitation. These results suggest that µ-agonist exposure increases the expression of abuse-related ICSS facilitation by µ agonists with a broad range of efficacies at µ receptors. 
Sustained AAV-mediated overexpression of CRF in the central amygdala diminishes the depressive-like state associated with nicotine withdrawal.	Smoking cessation leads to a dysphoric state and this increases the risk for relapse. Animal studies indicate that the dysphoric state associated with nicotine withdrawal is at least partly mediated by an increase in corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) release in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA). In the present study, we investigated whether a sustained overexpression of CRF in the CeA affects the dysphoric-like state associated with nicotine withdrawal. To study brain reward function, rats were prepared with intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) electrodes in the medial forebrain bundle. An adeno-associated virus (AAV, pseudotype 2/5) was used to overexpress CRF or green fluorescent protein (GFP, control) in the CeA and minipumps were used to induce nicotine dependence. The AAV2/5-CRF vector induced a 40% increase in CRF protein and mRNA levels in the CeA. Administration of the nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine (precipitated withdrawal) or nicotine pump removal (spontaneous withdrawal) led to elevations in ICSS thresholds. Elevations in ICSS thresholds are indicative of a dysphoric-like state. The overexpression of CRF did not affect baseline ICSS thresholds but diminished the elevations in ICSS thresholds associated with precipitated and spontaneous nicotine withdrawal. The real-time reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR analysis showed that the overexpression of CRF led to a decrease in CRF1 mRNA levels and an increase in CRF2 mRNA levels in the CeA. In conclusion, the overexpression of CRF in the CeA diminishes the dysphoric-like state associated with nicotine withdrawal and this might be driven by neuroadaptive changes in CRF1 and CRF2 receptor gene expression.
1,3-Dialkyl-4-(iminoarylmethyl)-1H-pyrazol-5-ols. A series of novel potential antipsychotic agents.	2-(Diethylamino)-N-[4-(2-fluorobenzoyl)-1,3-dimethyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl] acetamide (1) was recently found to have an antipsychotic-like profile in behavioral animal tests but, unlike clinically available antipsychotic agents, did not interact with dopamine receptors. Compound 1 was apparently metabolized to (5-amino-1,3-dimethyl-1H-pyrazol-4-yl)(2-fluorophenyl)methanone (2), which was both active in the behavioral animal tests and toxic. The synthesis and pharmacological evaluation of a series of 1,3-dialkyl-4-(iminoarylmethyl)-1H-pyrazol-5-ols are described in which the hydroxy and imine functionalities were selected as possible isosteric replacements for the amino and ketone groups of the earlier series. The initial target, 1,3-dimethyl-4-(iminophenylmethyl)-1H-pyrazol-5-ol (28), like known antipsychotics, reduced spontaneous locomotion in mice at doses that did not cause ataxia, and unlike known agents, it did not bind to D2 dopamine receptors in vitro. An examination of the SAR of related compounds indicated that maximal activity was obtained with analogues containing methyl groups at the 1- and 3-positions on the pyrazole ring and with a 3-chloro substituent on the phenyl ring. Replacement of the hydrogen atom of the imine moiety with various substituents led to loss of activity. Attempts to synthesize the 2-fluorophenyl compound analogous to 2 resulted in ring-closure to 1,3-dimethyl[1]benzopyrano[2,3-c]pyrazol-4-(1H)-one (65). 4-[(3-Chlorophenyl)iminomethyl]-1,3-dimethyl-1H-pyrazol-5-ol (41) was evaluated in additional tests. It inhibited conditioned avoidance responding in both rats and monkeys but, unlike available antipsychotic drugs, did not elicit dystonic movements in a primate model of antipsychotic-induced extrapyramidal side effects.
Effects of cholecystokinin-related peptides on self-stimulation behaviour in rats.	The effects of cholecystokinin octapeptide sulfate ester (CCK-8-SE), its N-terminal tripeptide (CCK-2-4-SE) and its C-terminal tetrapeptide (CCK-5-8) were investigated on hypothalamic self-stimulation in rats. CCK-8-SE and CCK-5-8 in 400 pmole doses inhibited self-stimulation behaviour, while CCK-2-4-SE was ineffective. In 80 pmole doses the peptides showed no effect. It is suggested that CCK-5-8 itself influences self-stimulation behaviour.
Oligopeptides in the development of biological motivations]	Data are presented, demonstrating the action of a number of oligopeptides on biological motivations of hunger, fear, self-stimulation and on alcohol addiction. In the structure of animals feeding motivation, such oligopeptides take part as beta-lipotropin and its fragments, ACTH, pentagastrin, delta-sleep inducing peptide (DSIP), substance P; in organization of defensive motivation--angiotensin II (AII), DSIP, substance P, bradykinin, beta-endorphin etc.; in organization of self-stimulation--AII, DSIP, bradykinin, ACTH, beta-endorphin etc. It is established that most of the above oligopeptides, injected to the brain lateral ventriculi, inhibit biological motivations, and only some of them have an activating action. On the basis of experiments, a hypothesis is formulated that oligopeptides act as a feedback between the genome of brain neurones and pacemaker cells of motivation centres of the hypothalamus area. Some oligopeptides elaborated by neuronal genomes under the action of dominating motivation, activate--and the other--suppress the activity of motivation hypothalamus centres.
Changes in the duration of pauses between self-stimulations in response to cortisol]	Intraperitoneal administration of glucocorticoid hormone cortisol (10 mg/kg) decelerated the self-stimulation (SS) frequency within 5-7 min. The maximal effect occurred within 10 to 20 min. Histograms of pauses duration between SS revealed a shift of mean values from 2.0-2.5 to 4-6 sec. A sharp increase of long pauses transformed chiefly mono- modal forms of control histograms into bimodal those under the hormonal effect. Behaviourally this was manifested by occurrence of burst type of SS responses when series of uninterrupted instrumental responses alternated with prolonged pauses between them. The data obtained are considered from the stand-point of systemic approach to analysis of organization of willed behaviour and role of cortisol in central mechanisms of positive reinforcement.
Possibilities for behavior correction in a learned ethanol preference in female and male white rats]	Correction of behavior of rats preferring for a long time ethanol but not water may be performed using the agents enhancing sexual activity of animals of both sexes: apomorphine (1 mg/kg), bromocriptine (1 mg/kg) and yohimbine (4 mg/kg). Normalization of behavior of the rats manifested by not only a decrease of total ethanol consumption but also by a change of alcohol preference. Bromocriptine exerted the predominant effect on females, and yohimbine on males. Apomorphine was effective in the animals of both sexes but its efficacy was higher in females. The agents produce opposite changes depending on the animal sex in ethanol level during the withdrawal period, the rate of ethanol elimination in the blood at its administration in a test dose and the reaction of self-stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus. Female rats proved to be more sensitive to the drugs' effects related to changes in ethanol metabolism rate. Male animals were more responsive to the effects due to changes in the positive reinforcement system.
Operant conditioning of hippocampal theta: dissociating reward from performance deficits.	Dopaminergic blocking agents have been known to suppress intracranial self-stimulation, but whether the suppression results from a reduction in the rewarding value of stimulation or from motor deficits has remained controversial. We have resolved this controversy by developing an operant technique minimally dependent on motor activity: Rats were trained to perform a bar-holding response for 3s or to produce hippocampal theta waves for 3s when the bar was retracted. Decamethonium bromide (a muscle relaxant) reduced bar holding without affecting theta production for brain stimulation. Pimozide (a dopaminergic blocking-agent) reduced both bar holding and theta production for stimulation, though rats were still capable of making the theta response at a rate comparable to the preinjection rate. Dopaminergic blocking at low doses reduces the rewarding value of brain stimulation at the level of the lateral hypothalamus. The method described in this report has wide applicability.
Effects of spiperone on self-stimulation and other activities of the Mongolian gerbil.	1 Self-stimulation to lever pressing and capacitance probe touching was obtained in Mongolian gerbils (Meriones unguiculatus) from electrode placements within the medial forebrain bundle. 2 Lever pressing was more sensitive to the decremental effects of a central depressant, pentobarbitone, than capacitance probe touching, suggesting its greater responsiveness to disturbances of motor function. 3 Spiperone (0.005 to 0.05 mg/kg) attenuated capacitance probe touching and lever pressing equally, a finding explained by action on either reward pathways or on the ability to initiate responding. 4 This same dose range of spiperone (0.005 to 0.05 mg/kg) attenuated locomotor activity, whether spontaneous or evoked by non-contingent electrical stimulation, and produced catalepsy. 5 The spiperone-induced attentuation of self-stimulation was not necessarily a result of its action on dopaminergic reward pathways since the effects could equally well be explained by a failure to initiate responding.
Acute effects of neuroleptics on brain self-stimulation thresholds in rats.	The acute effects of 5 neuroleptic drugs were tested in rats implanted with stimulating electrodes in the medial forebrain bundle and trained in a brain self-stimulation threshold procedure. Haloperidol (0.01-0.10 mg/kg) and loxapine (0.03-0.56 mg/kg) produced increases in reinforcement thresholds accompanied by reductions in response rates. Chlorpromazine (0.10-3.0 mg/kg) did not significantly alter reinforcement thresholds, but did produce dose-dependent reductions in response rates. Pimozide (0.1-1.75 mg/kg) was similar to chlorpromazine and significantly increased the reinforcement threshold only at the highest dose, although a graded decrease in response rates occurred over a wide dose-range. Clozapine (0.1-1.75 mg/kg) increased reinforcement thresholds without producing any significant changes in response rates, but when 3.0 mg/kg was administered, a marked disruption of behavior occurred. The results suggested that a distinction can be made between the effects of neuroleptics on motor behavior and on central reinforcement thresholds, and this may help in the interpretation of the relation between the chemical and clinical potency of antipsychotic drugs.
Effects of various catecholamine receptor antagonists, muscle relaxation and physical hindrance on shuttlebox self-stimulation.	Certain drugs, particularly clozapine and clonidine, have been reported to increase selectively the latency to initiate brain stimulation (the ON latency) in a shuttlebox test of self-stimulation, suggesting a preferential attenuation of the "reward" component. The pharmacological selectivity of this reported effect was systematically evaluated. At doses that blocked bar-pressing self-stimulation, metoclopramide (3 mg/kg), prazosin (3 mg/kg) clonidine (0.1mg/kg), clozapine (3 mg/kg)and haloperidol (0.3 mg/kg), all elevated the ON latency to a greater extent than the OFF latency. Methocarbamol (200 mg/kg), and a muscle relaxant, also elevated the ON latency preferentially but the magnitude of this preferential effect was smaller than that produced by the other drugs. A hurdle in the center of the shuttlebox increased the ON and OFF latencies nonselectively. The shuttlebox procedure does not clearly discriminate among various substances that interfere with noradrenergic or dopaminergic neurotransmission, but the common profile produced by the these substances is distinguishable to some degree from simple motor disruption.
Differential effects of d-amphetamine, pipradrol and bupropion on shuttlebox self-stimulation.	The shuttlebox self-stimulation test is claimed by Atrens to differentiate drug effects on brain stimulation reward from those on performance variables. Thus, for example, drug-induced enhancement of the reward value of stimulation should be reflected in a selective reduction of the latency to initiate stimulation (the ON latency), as compared with the latency to terminate stimulation (the OFF latency). The effects of the psychostimulant drugs, d-amphetamine and pipradrol, and the antidepressant, bupropion, were evaluated in this procedure as well as in a bar-pressing test of self-stimulation. Pipradrol (3 and 10 mg/kg) and bupropion (54 mg/kg) reduced ON latencies by 40% or more but failed to shorten OFF latencies, indicating that performance variables were not involved in the ON latency decrements. Although d-amphetamine (0.3 and 1.0 mg/kg) shortened ON latencies, the 1.0 mg/kg dose also reduced OFF latencies. Drug doses that reduced ON latencies also increased bar-pressing self-stimulation. The shuttlebox self-stimulation test appears to be capable of discriminating drug-induced enhancement in brain stimulation reward from performance variables.
Anxiolytic drugs selectively increase preferred duration of rewarding brain stimulation in a shuttlebox test.	In the shuttlebox self-stimulation test described by Atrens, rewarding brain stimulation is independently initiated and terminated by rats. I has been hypothesized that gradually accumulating aversiveness of stimulation motivates the rat to terminate the rewarding stimulation train. In agreement with this view, optimal doses of the known anxiolytics, pentobarbital (5 and 10 mg/kg) diazepam (1 and 2.5 mg/kg), chlordiazepoxide (3 and 5.4 mg/kg) and CL 218,872 (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg) preferentially increased the latency to terminate stimulation (the OFF latency), as compared with the latency to initiate stimulation (the ON latency). Higher doses increased both latencies in a nonselective fashion, suggesting nonselective performance impairment. The shuttlebox self-stimulation test constitutes a potentially useful measure of experimental approach-avoidance conflict, with the OFF latency indicating anticonflict activity and the ON latency providing a control for performance variables.
Biochemical, functional and behavioral evaluation of a series of novel antipsychotic-like agents.	Two ethyl phenylpiperazine substituted isochromans and a related benzoxepine were discovered to have antipsychotic-like properties in animal screening models. Further evaluation of these compounds disclosed that, like neuroleptics, they blocked dopamine-stimulated adenylate cyclase, displaced 3H-spiperone in vitro, altered dopamine synthesis, and decreased conditioned avoidance and intracranial self-stimulation behavior. In contrast to classical neuroleptics but like clozapine, these compounds did not block apomorphine or amphetamine-induced chewing stereotypy in rats, raise serum prolactin concentrations, or increase 3H-spiperone binding after chronic dosing. However, unlike clozapine, the compounds of this series did not displace 3H-spiperone in either of two in vivo paradigms nor did they alter striatal acetylcholine concentrations. Taken together these data suggest that these isochroman and benzoxepine analogs would most probably not cause neuroleptic extrapyramidal side effects or prolactin elevations clinically. However, due to their atypical nature, their antipsychotic potential can only be assessed with certainty by careful clinical studies.
Effect of the "memory peptide" ACTH 5-10 on the self-stimulation reaction of rabbits]	Experiments on rabbits were made to study variation in the frequency of the self-stimulation reaction from the lateral hypothalamus under the effect of the corticotropin fragment ACTH5-10. Intraperitoneal administration of the peptide in a dose of 50 micrograms/kg that causes the improved training in different behavioral models produces no significant effect on the mechanism of intracranial positive reinforcement. Intraventricular injection of 5 microliters of 0.9% NaCl leads to a short-term suppression of the self-stimulation reaction. Administration of 50 pcM/kg ACTH5-10 in the same volume of physiological saline completely abolishes the inhibitory action of the intraventricular injection itself.
Reversal of haloperidol induced deficits in self-stimulation by anti-Parkinsonian drugs.	The effects of 0.1 mg/kg dose of haloperidol on self-stimulation were assessed in rats having 3 stable self-stimulation response rates of approximately 10, 50 and 100 responses per min generated by 3 levels of current intensity. Haloperidol reduced overall response rates at all current intensities and generated extinction-like response patterns. Concurrent anti-Parkinsonian (benztropine 4.0 mg/kg or diphenhydramine 4.0 mg/kg) eliminated the within session extinction performance pattern and at the highest current intensity benztropine restored self-stimulation to a non-drug performance level. These results suggested that haloperidol induced impairments in self-stimulation are secondary to a motoric rather than reinforcement dysfunction.
Tolerance to amphetamine's facilitation of self-stimulation responding: anatomical specificity.	Further work on the phenomenon reported by Leith and Barrett, wherein tolerance was shown to develop to the well-known D-amphetamine-induced facilitation of self-stimulation, clearly indicates that the development of such tolerance is dependent on the location of the stimulating electrode. Thirty-seven Fisher or Harlan rats were trained to bar press for hypothalamic stimulation (60 Hz, AC). Following several sessions during which small doses of D-amphetamine were administered to demonstrate facilitation, the subjects were placed on a 4-day D-amphetamine regimen. During this time they were given three daily injections of continuously increasing doses of D-amphetamine (total 78 mg/kg). Subsequent tolerance was shown for electrodes stimulating dorsal or medial hypothalamic structures (H2 field of Forel, dorsal medial forebrain bundle, medial hypothalamic nuclei), but did not develop with ventral or lateral hypothalamic stimulation sites (fornix, ventral medial forebrain bundle).
Morphine and self-stimulation: evidence for action on a common neural substrate.	Recent studies have demonstrated that the self-stimulation phenomenon may provide a useful technique for investigating the rewarding properties of potentially addictive drugs such as morphine. The present study attempted to examine the nature of morphine's effects on self-stimulation by observing changes in rate-intensity functions following morphine administration. The results indicate that morphine markedly enhanced bar pressing for low intensity stimulation when the intensities were presented in an ascending sequence but morphine produced only slight changes in self-stimulation rates when a descending series was used. The failure of morphine to facilitate responding in the descending series suggests that adaptation of the self-stimulation system can block morphine's effects on this system. These findings appear to support the hypothesis that morphine affects the excitability of the neural system which mediates self-stimulation.
Neurobehavioral evidence for mesolimbic specificity of action by clozapine: studies using electrical intracranial self-stimulation.	The ability of chronic treatment with the atypical neuroleptic clozapine to induce functional dopaminergic hypersensitivity in laboratory rats was assessed. The intracranial electrical self-stimulation paradigm, known to be sensitive to changes in functional dopaminergic sensitivity, was used. Animals with electrodes in the ventral tegmental nucleus (mesolimbic dopamine cell body area) showed a marked increase in self-stimulation rate following 3 weeks of chronic clozapine. This increase was similar in magnitude and duration to that shown by animals given 3 weeks of chronic haloperidol. In contrast, animals with electrodes in the substantia nigra (nigrostriatal dopamine cell body area) showed no change in self-stimulation rate following 3 weeks of chronic clozapine. These data are interpreted in the light of previous suggestions that clozapine and other atypical neuroleptics may possess functional selectivity for the mesolimbic dopamine system.
Behavioral and electroencephalographic study of 7-chloro-1-methyl-5-phenyl-1 H-1,5-benzodiazepine-2,4-(3H,5H)-dione (clobazam)]	Behavioral and electroencephalographic effects of clobazam (CBZ), a 1, 5 benzodiazepine, were investigated in mice, rats and rabbits and compared with the effects of diazepam (DZP) and chlordiazepoxide (CDP). In EEG studies of rabbits, CBZ, DZP and CDP at doses of 2-10 mg/kg, i.v., caused a drowsy pattern, i.e., high voltage slow waves in the frontal cortex and the desynchronization of hippocampal theta wave. EEG arousal responses induced not only by auditory stimulation but also by electric stimulation of the mesencephalic reticular formation were inhibited by CBZ; CBZ was less potent than DZP, but more potent than CDP. On hypothalamic self-stimulation behavior of rats, low rate responses induced by low current brain stimulation, VI or DRL procedure were increased by oral administration of the three drugs. CBZ was less potent than DZP in the above respondings, but the same potency as CDP in VI or DRL responding and more potent in low rate responding induced by low current stimulation. The preventive effect of CBZ on MES convulsion in mice was less potent than DZP, but 2.5 times as potent as CDP. The preventive effect of CBZ was 1.3 times as potent as DZP and 2.5 times as potent as CDP. CBZ reduced the hyperemotionality of olfactory bulbectomized rats, and this effect was less than DZP in suppressing muricide. The muscle relaxant effect of CBZ in inclined screen and rotarod tests of mice was less than that of DZP. CBZ was 2.2 times as potent as CDP in potentiating thiopental sleep in mice, but less than DZP. These results indicate that CBZ is qualitatively similar to 1, 4 benzodiazepines, DZP and CDP, and is more potent than CDP, but less potent than DZP.
Effect of monoamines microinjected into the amygdaloid nucleus on the lateral hypothalamic self-stimulation response]	The effect of serotonin and noradrenaline injections in the amygdalar nuclei on the reaction of self-stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus was studied in rats. The increase of exogenous serotonin level in the amygdala phasically intensified the self-stimulation and activated emotionally negative forms of behaviour. The increase of noradrenaline content phasically lowered the frequency of self-stimulation and evoked emotionally positive forms of behaviour which did not depend on the lateral hypothalamus stimulation. It is supposed that the amygdala takes part in the mechanism of sensory reinforcement connected with learning and being in definite relations with the centres of positive reinforcement of the lateral hypothalamus, while amygdalar monoamines form the neurochemical basis for the control of the reinforcing properties of external stimuli.
Strategies for studying the neurochemical substrates of drug reinforcement in rodents.	Results from three different experimental paradigms for studying drug reinforcement are reviewed. Rate-increasing effects of amphetamine on intracranial self-stimulation are abolished by lesions to ascending dopamine neurons. Rate-increasing effects of intracranial microinjection of opioids on self-stimulation are localized to the vicinity of dopamine cell bodies in the ventral tegmentum. Conditioned reinforcement produced with intracranial microinjection of opioids into the ventral tegmental area is blocked by the dopamine antagonist haloperidol and lesions to ascending dopamine pathways. Intravenous self-administration of cocaine is blocked by intracerebral microinjection of spiroperidol into the nucleus accumbens but not into the caudate nucleus. Ascending dopamine neurons appear to mediate some of the reinforcing properties of both psychomotor stimulants and opioids.
Rate dependent inhibition of self-stimulation by apomorphine.	The effect of three doses of apomorphine 0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 were studied on self-stimulation generated by three levels of current intensity. Eight rats exhibited overall dose dependent decreases in self-stimulation obtained at the two lowest current intensities. Self-stimulation at the highest current intensity, however, was unaffected by even the highest dose level of apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg) despite typical signs of stereotypy exhibited by the rats in their home cages. Additionally, self-stimulation obtained under the 0.5 mg/kg dose of apomorphine under went extinction when reinforcement was discontinued. Thus, brain stimulation can be an effective reinforcement when an animal is given a stereotypy inducing dose of apomorphine if the current intensity is of sufficient magnitude and if the response manipulandum is not compatible with stereotypic responses. These observations appear consistent with a dopaminergic involvement in the response rather than reinforcement aspect of self-stimulation.
Effects of GABA receptor blockade on stimulation-induced feeding and self-stimulation.	Frequency thresholds for eating elicited by electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus of rats decreased in a dose-dependent manner after intraperitoneal (IP) administration of picrotoxin, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) antagonist that blocks GABA-mediated synaptic inhibition. Strychnine IP, a glycine antagonist that blocks glycine-mediated synaptic inhibition, had no effect. By contrast, frequency thresholds for self-stimulation at the same electrode site significantly increased after picrotoxin. Again, strychnine had no effect. These findings indicate that GABAergic mechanisms are involved in both electrically-elicited feeding and self-stimulation. They also suggest a dissociation of the neural substrates which subserve these behaviors.
The participation of opioids in the antinociceptive effect induced by the stimulation of hypothalamic "pleasure zones" in 20- to 30-day-old rabbits]	The involvement of opioid peptides in the mediation of inhibitory influences of the positive reinforcement system ("reward areas") on the evoked potential (EPs) recorded in the thalamic parafascicular complex (CM-Pf) in response to the nociceptive electrodermal stimulation of the hind paw in 20-30 day rabbits has been studied. Electrical stimulation of "reward areas" identified in the preliminary behavioural experiments inhibited the EPs. The systemic injection of naloxone potentiated the antinociceptive effect of "reward areas" stimulation in 75% of cases under the incomplete inhibition of EPs (the decrease of EPs amplitude) but decreased its inhibitory effect in 87% of cases under the complete inhibition of EPs. Naloxone did not change the inhibitory effect of "reward areas" stimulation suggesting to the relationship of analgesic "reward areas" function with nonopioid mechanisms too. On the basis of the comparison of the present data and the ones obtained before it can be inferred that opioid mechanism in realization of antinociceptive influence of "reward areas" stimulation on EPs in CM-Pf is more important for 20-30 day rabbits compared with 41-60 day ones. The correlation of the phenomenon under investigation with the formation of neurotransmitter systems has been discussed.
The lateralized effects of the melanostatin analog alaptide in rats raised in isolation and in a community]	Effects of alaptide on self-stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus, rotation behaviour and learning ability were studied in rats growing either in social adaptation or in groups. The effects on self-stimulation were opposite in these rats. Alaptide facilitated the learning process in grouped rats and potentiated the indirect dophamine-mimetic action of amphetamine in isolated rats.
The dopaminergic and serotoninergic components of the self-stimulation reaction of the lateral hypothalamus in rats with disruption of the medial prefrontal cortex]	Amphetamine (1 mg/kg) promoted a pedal self-stimulation of lateral hypothalamus of Wistar rats in the Skinner box. An unipolar lesion of medical prefrontal cortex with kainic acid 10-14 days prior to an experiment did not prevent the facilitating effect of amphetamine on self-stimulation, though the levels of hypothalamic noradrenaline and dopamine are 43% and 4.5-fold decreased respectively, the hypothalamic serotonin concentration not changing. Lysergic acid diethylamid (10 mkg/kg) did not influence on self-stimulation response in rats with damaged medial prefrontal cortex, but after preliminary administration prevented the stimulating effect of amphetamine on self-stimulation of lateral hypothalamus. The data are discussed from the point of view of a hypothesis that the phenomenon obtained is associated with the presence of a hypothalamic autoregulatory dopaminergic system providing the realization of self-stimulation. However, it does not exclude that the modulating influence of medial prefrontal cortex on lateral hypothalamus is connected with not only dopaminergic but with serotoninergic axons too.
Influence of new ACTH fragments on self-stimulation, avoidance, and grooming behavior in rabbits.	The effects of new cyclic analogs of ACTH fragments, EHFRWGKPVG-NH2 and KHFRWG-NH2, which have specific and nonspecific active centers in their structure, in the self-stimulation, avoidance, and grooming behavior of rabbits were investigated in this study. The intraventricular administration of EHFRWGKPVG-NH2 in doses of 0.1-2.5 micrograms increased the frequency of self-stimulation (SS), while in doses of 4-5 micrograms, it decreased the frequency of self-stimulation. The administration of KHFRWG-NH2 in doses of 0.1-5.o micrograms, induced a decrease in the frequency of SS by 25-30% in the first 15 min following the injections; this indicator returned to the baseline level thereafter, and decreased again. SS was more intense after 24-48 h, 5-8% higher than the baseline level, and remained practically unchanged over the course of a two-hour experiment. The administration of the EHFRWGKPVG-NH2 fragment in doses of 0.5-2.0 micrograms increased the latent period of the avoidance reaction, decreased the time of the anxiety state, and increased the time of the comfort state. In addition to these changes, both ACTH fragments induced intense grooming, increased the duration of grooming by 200-400% as compared with the control animals which were administered physiological solution.
Lysergic acid diethylamide blockade of the brain serotoninergic receptors prevents the facilitating effect of phenamine on self-stimulation in rats with destruction of the medial prefrontal cortex]	Amphetamine (1 mg/kg) increased the rate of pedal self-stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus of Wistar rats in Skinner box by 37%. Lesion of the medial prefrontal cortex with kainic acid (16 mcg/kg in 8 mcl) 10-14 days prior to the experiment did not prevent facilitating effect of amphetamine on self-stimulation. Lysergic acid diethylamid (10 mcg/kg) did not influence self-stimulation response in rats with damaged medial prefrontal cortex, but after its preliminary administration prevented the stimulating effect of amphetamine on self-stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus. The findings are discussed from two points of view: 1) the phenomenon observed is associated with the existence of hypothalamic autoregulatory dopaminergic system which provides realization of self-stimulation; 2) modulating influence of the medial prefrontal cortex on the lateral hypothalamus is mediated not only by dopaminergic but also by serotoninergic axons. It is suggested that both mechanisms may underlie the phenomenon under study.
Bromocriptine, a D2 receptor agonist, lowers the threshold for rewarding brain stimulation.	Drug-induced lowering of brain stimulation reward threshold can serve as a model for the pharmacological activation of reward pathways. Here, the effects of bromocriptine, a direct D2 dopamine receptor agonist, on reward thresholds were investigated. Bromocriptine administration resulted in the significant lowering of threshold levels in all test animals, suggesting that this agent can activate the same reward processes as do abused substances such as cocaine and morphine.
Streptozotocin-induced diabetes produces a naltrexone-reversible lowering of self-stimulation threshold.	Stimulation frequency thresholds for lateral hypothalamic self-stimulation were monitored for 3 weeks following the induction of diabetes with streptozotocin (STZ). In each of the 3 weeks following STZ treatment, thresholds of diabetic rats were significantly lower than their pre-STZ baseline while thresholds of control animals did not change. Naltrexone (5.0 mg/kg, s.c.) increased thresholds of diabetic rats while having no effect on thresholds of control rats. These results suggest that STZ-induced diabetes is associated with an opioid-mediated lowering of self-stimulation threshold. The possible relationship between this finding and similar findings obtained in food-restricted animals is discussed.
The effect of the NMDA-receptor antagonist (+/-)-CPP on the conditioned-reflex activation of an operant reaction in the brain electrical self-stimulation test in rats]	Self-stimulation behaviour was studied in rats with implanted bipolar electrodes in ventral tegmental area (VTA) and guide cannulae in nuclei accumbens septi (NAC). Conditioned activation of the operant response was induced by the stimuli associated with rewarding electrical stimulation of VTA, i.e., light or subthreshold stimulation. Bilateral administration of NMDA receptor antagonist ( +/- )-CPP (2.5 mcg in each cannula) significantly attenuated the facilitating effect of the conditioned stimuli. These data provide evidence for the role of glutamatergic transmission in NAC in realization of responses with conditioned reinforcement.
Cardiovascular responses and lateral hypothalamic self-stimulation: anatomical differentiation and functional significance.	Heart rate was telemetrically recorded from rats self-stimulating in a two-day shuttle-box. Blood pressure changes to intracranial stimulation (ICS) were determined in acute studies with the same subjects. Stimulus-bound heart rate decreases were found only at sites in the anterodorsal aspect of the lateral hypothalamus, whereas no changes in heart rate were observed at ventral or posterior sites. In the acute experiments, stimulation of the anterodorsal sites produced either decreases or no change in blood pressure. Stimulus-bound blood pressure increases were observed only in the ventrolateral hypothalamus. The differential topographical distribution of the electrode sites producing the heart rate and blood pressure changes suggests that these two aspects of cardiovascular function are subserved by separate neural systems in the hypothalamus and that the bradycardia during self-stimulation is a primary response to ICS and is not a reflex elicited by blood pressure increases. Blockade of the bradycardia with the peripheral cholinergic blocker methyl-hyoscine HBr had no effect on the initiation of or escape from ICS indicating that peripheral parasympathetic activity is not causally related to either the rewarding or aversive components of hypothalamic ICS.
Influence of social dominance on self-stimulation behavior in male golden hamsters.	The effect of a socially dominant hamster on the self-stimulation behavior of the subordinate hamster was examined. After determining social ranking, six hamsters were trained to press a lever in an operant chamber in which a dominant hamster was presented over a grid wall. The threshold of rewarding effect was evaluated by using a descending series of current intensity as electrical reward. When a dominant hamster was present, the subordinate hamster showed a shift of intensity-response function to the right (higher intensity). The presence of a subordinate hamster did not influence the response in dominant hamsters. Furthermore, beta-carboline (FG-7142) (5, 10, and 20 mg/kg, IP) caused a decrease in rewarding effect in dose-dependant manner. These results suggest that the presence of a dominant animal may have caused "a state of anxiety" somewhat similar to the anxiety caused by the benzodiazepine inverse agonist.
Vulnerability to stressor-induced disturbances in self-stimulation from the dorsal and ventral A10 area: differential effects of intraventricular D-Ala2-Met5-enkephalinamide, D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly-Ol5-enkephalin, and D-Pen2, D-Pen5-enkephalin administration.	D-Ala2-Met5-enkephalinamide (DALA) (1.0 microg/microl) was administered intraventricularly to mice responding for electrical stimulation from the dorsal or ventral aspects of the VTA immediately prior to footshock (Experiment 1). Predictably, footshock reduced self-stimulation from the dorsal but not the ventral VTA immediately, 24, and 168 h following the stressor. Intraventricular DALA administration effected a partial attenuation of stressor-induced self-stimulation reductions from the dorsal VTA immediately and 24 h poststressor. Deficits appeared among DALA-Shocked mice responding for brain stimulation from the ventral VTA during comparable test intervals. The long-term depressant influence of footshock on self-stimulation from the dorsal VTA was abolished among DALA-treated mice and DALA-associated reductions in self-stimulation from the ventral A10 region among stressed mice were not evident 1 week later. Administration of D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly-Ol5-enkephalin (DAGO) (0.01 microg/microl) or D-Pen2, D-Pen5-enkephalin (DPDPE) (1.0 microg/microl) intraventricularly prior to footshock effected an immediate and a delayed antagonism, respectively, of the stressor on self-stimulation from the dorsal VTA, which persisted for 1 week. Prophylactic administration of 0.001 microg/microl DAGO or 0.01 microg/microl DPDPE prior to the stressor failed to influence self-stimulation from the ventral VTA (Experiment 2). Administration of 0.01 microg/microl DAGO or 1.0 microg/microl DPDPE among mice responding for brain stimulation from the dorsal VTA following footshock produced a weak therapeutic effect immediately poststressor, but effected protracted amelioration of footshock-induced reductions of self-stimulation from the dorsal VTA (Experiment 3). Taken together, mu, delta, and mu-delta activation influenced self-stimulation differentially from the dorsal and ventral VTA according to the temporal order of opioid peptide challenge relative to stressor imposition. These data are discussed with respect to stressors, motivational alterations, and the putative modulating influence of endogenous enkephalin activity in subareas of the VTA.
