Which patient education strategies will pay off under prospective pricing?	As cost containment pressures mount under prospective pricing, patient education managers need to assure that appropriate educational strategies are implemented. This article reviews the evidence for nine educational strategies which demonstrate cost-saving potential under prospective pricing: pre-operative education, medication self-administration programs, outpatient education, discharge planning education, family education, peer educators, cooperative care units, early discharge programs and home health programs. Whenever possible, the diagnosis related groups (DRGs) to which these strategies apply are indicated. Finally, issues of patient education and quality of care are discussed.
Assessment of asthma patients' willingness to pay for and give time to an asthma self-management program.	Despite the success of health education programs for patients with asthma, several researchers have found that patients are reluctant to enroll in and complete a program designed to help them manage their condition. The purpose of this study was to identify factors that influence asthma patients' willingness to pay (WTP) for and willingness to give time (WTGT) to an asthma self-management program. The patient sample consisted of 116 adult asthma patients (age range, 18 to 34 years) from 2 affiliated sites: a county teaching hospital with ambulatory clinics and a staff-model health maintenance organization. To determine WTP and WTGT, patients were presented with a scenario in which the components of an 8-week asthma management program were described. Patients were then asked how much they would be willing to pay for and how much time they would be willing to spend on the program. Regression analyses were used to determine what effect the following factors had on WTP and WTGT with respect to an asthma self-management program: sociodemographic factors; predisposing, enabling, and reinforcing factors; level of asthma self-management; and health care utilization. Mean patient WTP was $29.50 for an 8-week asthma education program. Several factors appeared to influence this amount. Patients who were willing to pay more for a program that would help them manage their asthma exhibited suboptimal behaviors during asthma attacks, had greater perceived access to health care resources, received less educational information from health care providers, had previously participated in a self-management program, and had indicated an interest in participating in a self-management program. This model was statistically significant (P < 0.0001), with 35% of the variation in WTP scores explained by the independent variables. Patients reported that they were willing to spend a mean of 5.8 hours per week on an 8-week asthma self-management program. Patients who were willing to spend more time on an asthma self-management program had indicated an interest in participating in such a program, had a higher number of comorbidities, or had more emergency department visits. This model was statistically significant (P = 0.0018), with 18% of the variance explained. This study identified several factors that may affect WTP and WTGT in relation to an asthma self-management program. This information may be helpful in identifying candidates for educational programs.
Telemedicine for antenatal surveillance of high-risk pregnancies with ambulatory and home fetal heart rate monitoring--an update.	Antepartum fetal surveillance is routinely used to assess the risk of fetal death in high-risk pregnancies. Traditionally, testing is performed in the hospital or outpatient clinic by trained medical staff. New equipment is now available that is easy to operate and can be used for self-monitoring of the fetal heart rate (FHR) in the home setting. The tracings are transmitted by modem to a referral center for immediate interpretation by a health provider. The aim of this review was to assess the current data on the application of this new technology with regard to feasibility, access to care, maternal and neonatal outcome, patient and physician satisfaction, and cost-effectiveness.
The economic benefits of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors for patients with Alzheimer disease and associated dementias.	Most cost-effectiveness studies using simulation modeling have demonstrated that donepezil, rivastigmine, and galantamine are cost effective for the treatment of mild-to-moderate Alzheimer disease (AD). These conclusions are in large part based on the assumption that improvement in cognitive status, or prevention of cognitive and functional decline, reduces the amount of time patients spend institutionalized or receiving other full-time care. However, as discussed in this article, outcomes besides delay to institutionalization affect the costs of AD. In reviews of utilization data from Medicare and managed care organizations, it was noted that hospitalization and post acute care in skilled nursing facilities accounted for the largest amount of excess direct costs, even among patients with mild or moderate AD. These utilization reviews also suggest that many patients with AD and related dementias require inpatient care because they are not able to self-manage comorbid conditions. The improvements in cognitive status and daily functioning associated with acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI) therapy are expected to translate into improved management of comorbidities and reduced caregiver burden, thus reducing the total cost of care. To confirm these and other economic benefits of AChEIs, pharmacoeconomic outcomes should be evaluated routinely as part of randomized, controlled trials and through well-controlled observational studies of AD patients in community and institutional settings.
A review of self-management interventions for panic disorders, phobias and obsessive-compulsive disorders.	To review current evidence for the clinical and cost-effectiveness of self-management interventions for panic disorder, phobias and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).
Individual active treatment combined with group exercise for acute and subacute low back pain.	Randomized controlled trial.
A systematic review to examine the impact of psycho-educational interventions on health outcomes and costs in adults and children with difficult asthma.	Prior research has highlighted the importance of psychosocial factors in 'difficult' asthma. This study aimed to review the content, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of psycho-educational interventions designed to address these factors in patients with severe and difficult asthma.
The efficacy of traditional, low-cost and nonsplint therapies for temporomandibular disorder: a randomized controlled trial.	Treatment recommendations for patients with painful temporomandibular disorders (TMDs) range from conservative treatments such as physiotherapy to aggressive and irreversible treatments such as restorative reconstruction and joint surgery.
MCOs following innovative CMS remote monitoring initiative: self-testing service is designed to lower costs and improve outcomes for anticoagulation therapy.	Managing anticoagulation therapy has been difficult and costly for providers and for payers, as complications are common. For example, the cost of mitigating a single anticoagulation related hemorrhagic complication can exceed $10,000 per claim. In 2002, CMS initiated a new model of anticoagulation patient management that combines technology with remote monitoring to improve traditional care. Managed care organizations are now adopting this model, and improved outcomes at lower cost should result.
Cost-saving effect of supervised exercise associated to COPD self-management education program.	Although the benefits of comprehensive pulmonary rehabilitation have been demonstrated in patients with COPD, the effects of exercise sessions within self-management programs remain unclear. We hypothesized that 8 supervised exercise sessions incorporated in a 1-month self-management education program in COPD patients would be effective to improve health outcomes and to reduce direct medical costs after one year, compared to usual care.
Issues in pay for performance: the case of diabetes self-management.	Pay for performance is a concept recently on the agenda of many health care providers, administrators, insurers, and payors in their search for methods to provide the best care at the most efficient price. At the same time it promises to promote quality care by paying financial incentives to providers who perform well clinically. As the fields continue to debate this approach, the following article explores how the pay-for-performance concept may be applied to one of the most prevalent chronic illnesses: diabetes. It identifies some of the issues and problems that may be faced with diseases such as diabetes, in which outcomes rely greatly on the role of the patient in self-management. Such considerations must be taken into account in the event of the refinement and implementation of pay for performance.
Self dilation as a treatment for resistant benign esophageal strictures: outcome, technique, and quality of life assessment.	Resistant benign esophageal strictures can have a negative impact on patients' quality of life. A portion of these patients require frequent physician performed dilations, leading to numerous interactions with their attendant inconvenience and sense of dependence. This study demonstrates the efficacy, safety and effect on quality of life of this under-utilized technique.
At home testing: optimizing management for the infertility physician.	To review and describe various over-the-counter testing products available to the infertility patient, a billion-dollar a year industry that continues to grow.
Health valuations for patients with chronic ischemic heart disease]	The study deals with the question of how patients with chronic ischemic heart disease assess different health situations that can be achieved by rehabilitation. Furthermore it examines which factors influence these health valuations and whether the predictors vary depending on the level of education.
Shortcomings in public and private insurance coverage of diabetes self-management education and support.	The objective of this study is to present preliminary data to characterize public and private insurance coverage for diabetes self-management education (DSM Education) and diabetes self-management support (DSM Support). Representatives from Medicaid and 2 private insurance providers in 10 states provided coverage information for their insurance plans. Two states (the most populous state from the East and West coasts) were sampled purposively and 8 additional states from 4 geographic regions (northeast, southeast, northwest, southwest) were sampled at random. Representatives from each private insurer described both a premium and basic coverage plan. Thus, 10 Medicaid programs and 40 private insurance plans were represented. Information about Medicare coverage was accessed from publicly available documents. Restricted by physician certification of patient eligibility, Medicare coverage included 10 hours of DSM Education plus 3 hours of medical nutrition therapy (MNT) within a continuous 12-month period, and 4 hours of follow-up (2 hours DSM Education and 2 hours MNT) for each subsequent year. Only 22 of 40 sampled private insurance and 5 of 10 Medicaid plans covered DSM Education, which ranged from 7 to 20 hours of education per year. Medicaid and private plans often limited the amount of DSM Education or required patients to obtain a physician certification of eligibility. Other than on-demand access features, coverage of DSM Support was minimal. Public and private insurance coverage of DSM Education was neither widespread nor uniform, while coverage of DSM Support was scarce.
A feasibility study of low-cost, self-administered skin care interventions in patients with head and neck cancer receiving chemoradiation.	Current evidence for the management of radiation skin toxicities demonstrates equivocal outcomes using a variety of interventions, leaving substantial gaps in knowledge. Skin toxicities can lead to treatment delays, infection, pain, and increased costs for the patient. Patients with head and neck cancers receiving chemoradiation (N = 100), a population particularly vulnerable to disruptions in skin integrity, were enrolled into a prospective, descriptive study. Data collection was conducted and photographs were taken at baseline and weekly throughout treatment. Patients received skin care kits, instructions, and a diary to record adherence. Skin toxicity was measured and validated by at least three observers using serial photographs with 100% interrater agreement. Data were analyzed using descriptive statistics, graphs, and bivariate analysis. Adherence to both washing and moisturizing was consistently high. Although a correlation existed between the radiation dose and skin toxicity at week 6, no correlation existed between skin toxicity and adherence. Given the rate of grade 3 toxicities at week 6 and product costs, this proved to be an affordable regimen to which patients could easily adhere. Positive patient outcomes can be promoted through teaching and reinforcement of self-care measures to reduce skin toxicity.
Computer therapy compared with usual care for people with long-standing aphasia poststroke: a pilot randomized controlled trial.	The purpose of this study was to test the feasibility of conducting a randomized controlled trial to study the effectiveness of self-managed computer treatment for people with long-standing aphasia after stroke.
PELICAN: A quality of life instrument for childhood asthma: study protocol of two randomized controlled trials in primary and specialized care in the Netherlands.	Asthma is one of the major chronic health problems in children in the Netherlands. The Pelican is a paediatric asthma-related quality of life instrument for children with asthma from 6-11 years old, which is suitable for clinical practice in primary and specialized care. Based on this instrument, we developed a self-management treatment to improve asthma-related quality of life. The Pelican intervention will be investigated in different health care settings. Results of intervention studies are often extrapolated to other health care settings than originally investigated. Because of differences in organization, disease severity, patient characteristics and care provision between health care settings, extrapolating research results could lead to unnecessary health costs without the desired health care achievements. Therefore, interventions have to be investigated in different health care settings when possible. This study is an example of an intervention study in different health care settings. In this article, we will present the study protocol of the Pelican study in primary and specialized care.
Implementation strategies of internet-based asthma self-management support in usual care. Study protocol for the IMPASSE cluster randomized trial.	Internet-based self-management (IBSM) support cost-effectively improves asthma control, asthma related quality of life, number of symptom-free days, and lung function in patients with mild to moderate persistent asthma. The current challenge is to implement IBSM in clinical practice.
Cost implications of self-management education intervention programmes in arthritis.	The purpose of this review is to examine cost implications, including cost-effectiveness analyses, cost-savings calculated from health-care utilisation and intervention delivery costs of arthritis-related self-management education (SME) interventions.
Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of ehealth interventions in somatic diseases: a systematic review of systematic reviews and meta-analyses.	eHealth potentially enhances quality of care and may reduce health care costs. However, a review of systematic reviews published in 2010 concluded that high-quality evidence on the benefits of eHealth interventions was still lacking.
Effectiveness and cost-benefit analysis of intensive treatment and teaching programmes for type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus in Moscow--blood glucose versus urine glucose self-monitoring.	In a prospective controlled trial the effects of a 5-day in-patient treatment and teaching programme for Type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus on metabolic control and health care costs were studied in Moscow. Two different intervention programmes were compared, one based upon urine glucose self-monitoring (UGSM, n = 61) and one using blood glucose self-monitoring (BGSM, n = 60). Follow-up was 2 years. A control group (n = 60) continued the standard treatment of the Moscow diabetes centre and was followed-up for 1 year. Costs and benefits with respect to hospitalizations and lost productivity (according to average wage) were measured in November 1992 rubles (Rb.), with respect to imported drugs and test strips in 1992 German marks (DM). In the intervention groups there were significant decreases of HbA1 values [UGSM: 12.5% before, 9.4% after 1 year, 9.2% after 2 years (p < 0.0001); BGSM: 12.6% before, 9.3% after 1 year, 9.2% after 2 years (p < 0.0001) compared to no change in the control group (12.2% before, 12.3% after 1 year)], and of the frequency of ketoacidosis. The frequency of severe hypoglycaemia was comparable between the UGSM (10 cases during 2 years), BGSM (10 cases during 2 years), and the control group (8 cases during 1 year).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Efficiency and costs of medical exercise therapy, conventional physiotherapy, and self-exercise in patients with chronic low back pain. A pragmatic, randomized, single-blinded, controlled trial with 1-year follow-up.	A multicenter, randomized, single-blinded controlled trial with 1-year follow-up.
