The effect of first premolar extraction on vertical dimension.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the vertical changes occurring in Class I patients treated orthodontically with first premolar extraction and to compare these changes with those occurring in Class I patients treated orthodontically without extractions. Records of 40 Class I nonextraction cases (24 girls, 16 boys) and 40 Class I maxillary and mandibular first premolar extraction cases (23 girls, 17 boys) were obtained. The pretreatment and posttreatment cephalograms were digitized, and 6 linear and 8 angular cephalometric measurements were selected to evaluate vertical changes. Evaluation of the treatment results of the extraction and nonextraction cases showed that the vertical changes occurring after the extraction of maxillary and mandibular first premolars were not different than those occurring in the nonextraction cases.
Dentocraniofacial morphology of 12 Japanese subjects with unilateral cleft lip and palate with a severe Class III malocclusion: a cephalometric study at the pretreatment stage of surgical orthodontic treatment.	The present study clarifies the dentocraniofacial morphology of patients with cleft lip and palate (CLP) with severe Class III malocclusion prior to surgical orthodontic treatment.
Pituitary adenoma: a cephalometric finding.	A case of a young girl with an abnormally shaped sella turcica is reported. A routine lateral cephalograph of the skull was taken for orthodontic purposes. The cephalograph revealed that the sella turcica was abnormally shaped. Magnetic resonance imaging of the patient confirmed the presence of a pituitary adenoma in the sellar region. This article reports and discusses the incidental finding of a pituitary adenoma and also emphasizes the orthodontist's important role in the initial diagnosis of such cases.
Paragangliomas of the parasellar region.	Parasellar paragangliomas are rare tumors. As far as we know, only ten cases are described in the literature. Their clinical, pathological, and radiological features and possible origin are discussed in this article and a review of the literature is given. Additionally, we report a new case of a 51-year-old woman with paraganglioma growing in the anterior, middle, and posterior cranial fossa with extended destruction of the skull base. The patient had been suffering from long-standing headaches and facial nerve paresis. Preoperatively, this tumor was suspected to be a meningioma.
Symptomatic chronic paroxysmal hemicrania.	A patient with chronic paroxysmal hemicrania (CPH) associated with a gangliocytoma growing from within the sella turcica is reported. This tumor displaced the floor of the third ventricle and surrounded the internal carotid artery on the same side as the headache. Partial removal of the tumor followed by radiation resulted in amelioration of headache. The anatomical location of the tumor and its possible relationship to the pathogenesis of CPH is discussed.
Central nervous system tumours in childhood: their clinical pathological aspects]	Paediatric tumours affecting the central nervous system (CNS) constitute the second most frequent group of tumours at this age. Taking the WHO 2000 classification as our starting point, our intention was to describe the more important clinical and pathological features in the differential diagnosis of the different tumourous entities with the highest incidence in childhood. We highlight, above all, the characteristics that justify the need for a smooth flow of information between neurologists, neurosurgeons, neuroradiologists, neuropathologists and oncologists. We do not deal with familial tumourous syndromes, genetic aspects or clinical information derived from analyses of molecular alterations.
Case of complete recovery of pancytopenia after treatment of hypopituitarism.	We describe a 55-year-old woman who presented with pancytopenia with a normocytic and normochromic anemia which was progressive despite conventional treatments such as folic acid, vitamin B6, and oxymetholone. Her physical findings and history of a previous massive postpartum hemorrhage suggested Sheehan's syndrome, and the pituitary hormonal studies revealed panhypopituitarism. After 4 months of thyroxine and glucocorticoid replacement therapy, her pancytopenia and bone marrow hypoplasia recovered completely. Pancytopenia is a rare manifestation of a hormonal abnormality, but hematologists need to be aware of panhypopituitarism as a differential diagnosis when women showing features of hypopituitarism present with pancytopenia because it can be reversed with adequate hormone replacement.
Surgical management of tuberculum sellae meningioma in a patient with a twin pregnancy: case report.	Meningioma in twin pregnancy is rare. The tumor has an accelerated growth during the pregnancy and may enlarge or become symptomatic during this period. This relationship makes management of patients with this tumor quite challenging.
Anterior communicating artery aneurysm in the sella turcica: case report.	Only 3 such reported intrasellar aneurysms have arisen from the anterior communicating artery.
Comparison of double-plate appliance and facemask therapy in treating Class III malocclusions.	The aim of this study was to compare the effects of the double-plate appliance (DPA) and the facemask (FM) in treating skeletal Class III malocclusions. Data were based on the pretreatment and posttreatment lateral cephalograms of 28 subjects with skeletal and dental Class III malocclusions. In the first group (7 girls, 7 boys; mean age, 10 years 3 months), each subject wore a DPA with 2 Class III elastics, which exerted a force of 350-400 g day and night except for meals. In the second group (7 girls, 7 boys; mean age, 10 years 5 months), each subject wore a Delaire-type FM with a removable intraoral appliance with a total force of 600 g. The patients were instructed to wear the appliance approximately 16 hours a day. An untreated control group (6 girls, 8 boys; mean age, 9 years 8 months) was formed that matched the treatment groups according to sagittal skeletal and dental classifications. Thirteen angular and 14 linear measurements were evaluated. The increase in ANB angle and the decrease in maxillomandibular differential in the treated groups showed significant differences compared with the control group (P < .05). The increases in ANB and SNA angles in the FM group were significantly greater than in the DPA group (P < .05). The increases in lower facial height and Me-ANS in the FM group were significantly different compared with the other groups (P < .05). The overjet increased significantly in both treatment groups (P < .001), but, in the DPA group, overjet was significantly greater than in the FM group (P < .05). Protrusion of the maxillary incisors and retrusion of the mandibular incisors in the DPA group showed significant differences compared with the other groups (P < .05).
Distortion of normal pituitary structures in sellar pathologies on MRI.	This study was undertaken to assess the displacement patterns and shifts of the normal pituitary gland in sellar pathologies on MRI and to determine if the position of the bright spot (BS) represents a predicting factor for the position of the residual adenohypophysis (RAH) in pathological conditions.
Vanishing pituitary mass revealed by timely magnetic resonance imaging: examples of spontaneous resolution of nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma.	Spontaneous necrosis of a pituitary adenoma is not rare but represents a very unlikely way of curing a nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma. We report two cases of nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma, one of them with a family history of pituitary adenoma, in whom spontaneous complete resolution occurred through the necrosis of previously well-delineated adenoma. Sequential magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans provided clear evidence of the event, resulting in an empty sella. In the present cases, the pituitary necrosis was entirely asymptomatic with the exception of an initial atypical headache in one case, and cured the patients as well as a surgical procedure would have done. This exceptional curative process, however, should certainly not be relied on and does not rule out the possibility of recurrence.
Rare fatal vascular complication of transsphenoidal surgery.	We report the case of a 61-year-old man, who underwent transsphenoidal surgery for a pituitary macroadenoma. The presence of tough fibrous septa dividing the tumour permitted only a partial resection. Progressive loss of consciousness soon after surgery occurred, an emergency CT scan showed no evidence of haemorrhage. Twenty hours later, MRI revealed compression of both internal carotid arteries with arrest of arterial flow resulting in stroke by an enlarged haemorrhagic mass consistent with a pituitary apoplexy. On the second postoperative day, the patient died as a result of this extensive stroke. The mechanisms of this rare complication after transsphenoidal surgery are theorized and the sensitivity of imaging methods is discussed.
The diagnostic importance of prolactin subgroups in patients with stalk mass.	In some situations, the identification of subgroups of patients with elevated serum prolactin (PRL) levels on the basis of different forms of PRL present in the blood, may be complementary to generally accepted and performed biochemical and radiological examinations in addition to a thorough clinical evaluation. Further analysis of elevated PRL subgroups is advisable especially for cases lacking the signs of amenorrhea and galactorea harboring a space occupying lesion in the sellar region. We present the case report of a patient with a high ratio of macroprolactin with regard to total serum PRL harboring a radiologically confirmed stalk mass lesion. An appropriate treatment plan for this patient is discussed.
Evaluation of platybasia with MR imaging.	Platybasia, or abnormal obtuseness of the basal angle, was first measured on plain skull images. At present, evaluation of the brain and skull more commonly involves CT and MR imaging. We evaluated a new MR imaging method of evaluating platybasia.
Endoscopic transnasal transsphenoidal treatment of pathology of the sellar region.	From October 2001 to the end of November 2002 in Department of Neurosurgery, Silesian University School of Medicine in Katowice 70 explorations of the sella turcica were executed using the endoscopic method. In 63 cases the operation was done because of pituitary gland adenomas. In one case the diagnosis was craniopharyngioma, in 1 chordoma of the clivus, in one glioma of the optic nerve, in 1 the reason for an operation was an empty sella syndrome and in 3 cases the pathological diagnosis was an amorphous masses. Patients were operated using the 4-mm diameter endoscope with 0- and 30-degree angled lenses, using the method according to Jho and Carrau with our own modifications. In all cases of adenomas the total removal of the tumour was obtained in 71.4 %. Permanent diabetes insipidus occurred in 4.3 % of all operated patients. In our series of patients we did not observe any postoperative CSF leak or rhinological complications. One patient died, corresponding to 1.4 % of all cases. We the recommend transsphenoidal transnasal endoscopic approach for use in the cases of sellar region pathology because of the advantages of the method for surgeon and for comfort of the patient.
Cavernous aneurysm and pituitary adenoma: management of dual intrasellar lesions.	A 53-year-old female with a functioning pituitary adenoma was found to also have an unruptured asymptomatic aneurysm in the cavernous sinus portion of the internal carotid artery on MRI. The adenoma had a suprasellar extension with optic chiasm compression and extended into the right cavernous sinus. An aneurysm-like flow-void adjacent to the left internal carotid artery in the sella and embedded in the adenoma was also found. The aneurysm was confirmed by conventional angiography. We used a right fronto-pterional approach to clip the aneurysm and to remove the pituitary tumor in a one-stage procedure. The outcome was good on long-term follow-up. It is important to thoroughly evaluate the anatomic relations around the sella turcica prior to procedures with limited exposure, including transsphenoidal surgery, to avoid unrecognized complications and morbidity.
Imaging the sella and parasellar region.	The anatomy of the sella and parasellar region is discussed. Pertinent ophthalmologic findings and syndromes relating to this anatomic region are described. Pathologic processes, such as pituitary adenoma, pituitary apoplexy, craniopharyngioma, Rathke's cleft cyst, lymphocytic adenohypophysitis, and other such parasellar lesions are discussed along with their ophthalmologic manifestations.
Intrasellar cavernous hemangioma.	Reports of intrasellar cavernous hemangioma are rare. They are usually incidental findings at autopsy, or initially mistaken for pituitary adenoma and treated accordingly. There are no specific symptoms. Cranial nerve palsy has occasionally been reported in patients with cavernous hemangioma, with or without sellar extension. However, intrasellar cavernous hemangioma with extension into the cavernous sinus resulting in oculomotor palsy has not been reported. We present a rare case of intrasellar cavernous hemangioma and discuss the diagnosis and management. Total surgical removal is recommended. However, attempts to resect the parasellar component of the lesion may be associated with high morbidity. Therefore, surgical cranial nerve decompression in the acute stage followed by stereotactic radiosurgery for the residual lesion may be an alternative.
Quantitative and qualitative assessment of morphology in sagittal synostosis: mid-sagittal vector analysis.	Consensus remains lacking regarding the optimal surgical treatment modality for sagittal synostosis. There is, however, wide agreement that objective analytical methods are required to demonstrate the characteristic morphology of the condition and to substantiate the benefits of specified surgical techniques. Simple calculated anthropomorphic indices, such as the cranial index, are commonly used but fail to provide satisfactory representation of morphology, which is far more complex than can be represented by its simple length-width ratio. Techniques to provide more comprehensive, yet practical, assessment of morphology are needed for analytic purposes. Herein, we introduce vector analysis as an objective, computed tomography (CT)-based morphometric technique for assessment of cranial morphology; this work represents the first application of the technique mid-sagittal vector analysis (MSVA). MSVA is a single plane application that was devised to address dysmorphology in sagittal synostosis. It was our hypothesis that MSVA would quantitatively and qualitatively depict preoperative morphology and postoperative correction in specific regions. Sixteen patients undergoing cranial reshaping surgery for sagittal synostosis were included in the study. All patients underwent routine preoperative and 1 year postoperative CT scans, from which the MSVA was derived. MSVA is a radial vector analysis in which distances to the cranial surface are measured from a single reference point origin in the sagittal plane. Preoperative morphology, characterized by respective vectors, was analyzed in three regions: the frontal, vertex, and occipital regions. Comparison with postoperative paired data was conducted for each patient. The analysis of postoperative change demonstrated (1) decrease in prominence in the frontal and occipital regions, (2) increase in height and forward translation of the vertex, and (3) ability to distinguish and qualify frontal versus occipital bossing and correction thereof. We conclude that the longitudinal differences associated with scaphocephaly are well characterized and differentiated by MSVA. Quantitative and qualitative assessment identifies three relevant regions affected by the condition and its treatment: the frontal, vertex, and occipital regions. The transverse dimension is not addressed in this single plane analysis; a more comprehensive application will require additional planes of analysis and the development of a normative database.
Surgically treated tuberculum sellae and diaphragm sellae meningiomas: the importance of short-term visual outcome.	The visual outcome in patients with tuberculum and diaphragm sellae meningiomas treated with microsurgery was evaluated. Prognostic and diagnostic values of short- and long-term postoperative visual outcome and etiology for postoperative visual deterioration are discussed with special attention.
Spontaneous cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea as the presenting symptom of sellar pathologies: three demonstrative cases.	Spontaneous rhinorrhea due to sellar pathologies is a rare and insidious disease that may represent a diagnostic challenge. Since the precipitating cause is not apparent in most patients, delayed diagnosis and/or improper treatments are not uncommon and may be detrimental for the patients. The precise mechanisms of such rhinorrhea are still incompletely understood. Proposed etiological factors include constant cerebrospinal fluid pulsations against the anterior skull base transmitted by primitive or acquired arachnoid invaginations in combination with either elevated ICP or congenital/pathologic erosions of sellar and parasellar bone structures. Advances in the diagnosis and surgical techniques have recently modified the decision-making approach to this pathology. The present paper reports three unusual cases of sellar pathologies revealed by rhinorrhea as the first symptom discussing controversial issues on pathogenesis, complications and current management of this kind of fistula.
Bite force and maxillofacial morphology in patients with Duchenne-type muscular dystrophy.	The purpose of this study is to evaluate maxillofacial morphology and bite force in patients with severe Duchenne-type myodystrophy.
Transverse displacement of the proximal segment after bilateral sagittal split osteotomy advancement and its effect on relapse.	To evaluate the transverse displacement of the proximal segment and its association with horizontal relapse post-treatment.
Changes in the soft tissue profile after extraction orthodontic therapy.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of extraction therapy and use or nonuse of headgear on the soft tissue profile in subjects with different growth patterns.
Procuste cephalometry]	Procrustean cephalometrics employs Procrustes's methods to analyze cranio-facial and orthodontic structures. Using this technique, which is structured on a rigorous mathematical base, orthodontists can avoid the biases and limitations of traditional analyses based on index angles and linear measurements. The starting data are the coordinates of the anatomic landmarks discerned on a profile cephalometric X-ray. Employing this data, orthodontists can calculate patients' type and stage of growth. These factors, representative of the normal variability of each patient, make it possible for the orthodontist to calculate an individualized reference base: a harmonious face in good balance of the same type and at the same growth stage as the patient. Finally, orthodontists make the best possible superimposition of this personalized, "ideal" radiographic sketch on the patient's headplate, by using anatomic landmarks, not a reference plane, to determine the areas that are out of balance and identify the anomalies that will need to be corrected during treatment.
A man in his mid-70s with a sellar mass.	Metastatic melanoma to a pituitary oncocytoma is a very rare condition. A 76-year-old man was presented with progressive visual disturbance and falling down with initial loss of consciousness 2 days before admission. He had a subungual acral lentiginous melanoma (T3N1M0) with gangrenous change of left big toe, treated by amputation 15 months ago. Computed tomography and MR imaging demonstrated masses involving inguina, mediastinum and left renal hilum and dumb-bell shaped hyperdense mass, approximately 6.2 x 3.7 mm, that involved pituitary fossa and suprasellar region with adjacent bony destruction. He underwent surgical resection of the tumor. Microscopically, the tumor revealed an admixture of pituitary adenoma and invasive metastatic melanoma with fragments containing both populations in juxtaposition. The adenoma was negative for melanoma markers and pituitary hormone markers. The melanoma was positive for S-100 protein and BMB-45. Ultrastructure of the adenoma revealed abundant mitochondria and sparse secretory granules. The diagnosis was metastatic melanoma to a pituitary oncocytoma. The current literature on metastatic tumors to pituitary adenoma is reviewed.
Intra-sellar schwannoma co-existing with GH-secreting pituitary adenoma.	We present a unique example of an intra-sellar schwannoma co-existing with a growth hormone (GH)-secreting pituitary adenoma.
A primary atypical solitary fibrous tumor of the sella mimicking nonfunctional pituitary adenoma: a case report.	We reported a 32-year-old male with a sellar solitary fibrous tumor who presented with headache and affliction in the left eye. Serum biochemical examination revealed hypoglycemia. The tumor was assumed to be a nonfunctional pituitary adenoma preoperatively. A subtotal resection of the tumor was performed. Immunohistochemically, atypical solitary fibrous tumor was established. The residual tumor had no progression or distant metastasis at a 44-month follow-up after gamma-knife stereoradiotherapy.
Pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone substitution following excision of a craniopharyngioma with suprasellar invasion]	Craniopharyngeoma growing suprasellary attacks the medio-basal region of hypothalamus, that leads to the stopping of the production of gonadotropin releasing hormone. In connection with the case of a 15-year-old girl who had partial extirpation of craniopharyngeoma the authors write about the favourable endocrine effect of pulsatile gonadotropin releasing hormone treatment. Through giving gonadotropin releasing hormone every 90 minutes in 20 micrograms doses menstruation cycle and ovulation was performed. Beside surgical treatment hormonal substitution plays an important role in the treatment of additional endocrine symptoms.
Intradural suprasellar chondroid chordoma.	We report a 51-year-old man with an unusual intradural suprasellar chondroid chordoma. He presented with headache and diminution of vision in both eyes. MRI demonstrated the suprasellar tumor as an isointense mass with heterogeneous enhancement after intravenous administration of contrast agent. There was neither bony nor dural association, and gross-total removal of the mass was performed using a left extended pterional approach. Based on the histological characteristics of the tumor, which was composed of typical chordoma cells and islands of chondroid elements, we diagnosed a chondroid chordoma. We believe this is the first report of an entirely intradural chondroid chordoma on the suprasellar region. Clinical, radiological, and pathological features of the tumor are described.
Endoscopic transsphenoidal resection of a mid-clival meningioma.	Advances in transsphenoidal endoscopic surgery have allowed difficult clival tumours such as meningiomas causing effacement of the pons and basilar artery to be approached by this technique. We report a clival meningioma resected via a transsphenoidal endoscopic approach.
Treatment effects of the R-appliance and twin block in Class II division 1 malocclusion.	The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of a differently designed functional appliance (the R-appliance) with a twin-block (TB)-treated group. Thirty patients (18 girls and 12 boys) with a mean age of 10.5±0.7 years were treated with the R-appliance for 16.2±0.3 months and 25 (11 boys and 14 girls) with a mean age of 11.2±1.3 years with a TB for 16.1±1.4 months (control). All had a Class II division 1 malocclusion due to mandibular deficiency. Lateral cephalograms obtained at the beginning (T1) and end (T2) of the study were analysed. Paired t-tests showed that SNB significantly increased in both groups. The incisor mandibular plane angle (IMPA) was reduced in the R-appliance group by 1.9±4.9 degrees (P<0.04) but increased by 0.5±5.1 degrees (P<0.6) in the TB group. SNA in the R-appliance group showed an increase of 0.2±1.8 degrees (P<0.5), while it was decreased by 0.2±1.3 degrees (P<0.3) in the TB group. Both treatment modalities were successful in moving the mandible forward. However, with the R-appliance, this was achieved without retroclination of the lower incisors.
Effects of retraction of anterior teeth and initial soft tissue variables on lip changes in Japanese adults.	The aim of this study was to examine the effects of retraction of anterior teeth and the initial soft tissue profile variables on upper and lower lip changes in Japanese adults. Pre- and post-treatment cephalometric radiographs of 33 Japanese female adults (aged 23.0±5.0 years), with a Class II division 1 malocclusion, who had two or four first premolars extracted, were evaluated. Lateral cephalograms taken with the lips in a voluntary relaxed position were traced and compared. Nine linear and eight angular measurements were constructed for the hard tissue measurements and 16 linear and 2 angular for the soft tissue measurements. Stepwise multiple regression analysis revealed that the horizontal upper lip position could be explained by the position of the maxillary incisor cervical point and the occlusal plane to SN with a 54 percent contribution ratio, and horizontal lower lip position, maxillary incisor tip position, initial interlabial gap, and aesthetic line to the tip of lower lip with a 51 percent contribution ratio. All parameters employed explained the horizontal position of the upper and lower lip with higher than 96 percent confidence. While the horizontal positions could not be predicted by a limited number of parameters, the vertical positions of lips could be explained by three parameters with higher than 62 percent confidence. The predictability found in this study could be beneficial for orthodontists in treatment planning.
An association between sella turcica bridging and dental transposition.	The aim of the present study was to determine any association between tooth transposition and bridging of the sella turcica, given the evidence of common embryonic origins associated with these structures and a genetic basis underlying these two conditions. Clinical records of subjects demonstrating dental transposition and normal controls were collected from several hospital orthodontic departments and specialist orthodontic practices. All cases and controls were documented with good quality lateral cephalometric radiographs and dental panoramic tomograms (DPTs). The study sample consisted of 21 Caucasian subjects (7 males and 14 females; mean age 14.5 years; SD 2.2 years), demonstrating either maxillary or mandibular dental transposition. The control group, matched for age and gender to the study sample, comprised 70 Caucasians (31 males and 39 females; mean age 13.8 years; SD 1.8 years) without dental anomalies randomly selected from subjects referred for orthodontic treatment within the same departments. The extent of sella turcica bridging was quantified from each profile radiograph using comparative measurement of length and diameter. Sella turcica bridging was found more frequently in subjects diagnosed with dental transposition than in the controls, with the difference being statistically significant [chi-square=7.4; degrees of freedom (df)=2; P=0.025; Fisher's exact test; P=0.042]. The increased frequency of complete and partial bridging of the sella turcica in subjects with dental transposition provides further evidence of a genetic basis to this condition. As calcification and bridging of this region can present during early childhood, it may act as a useful diagnostic predictor of susceptibility to local dental problems.
Skeletal stability after mandibular setback surgery: comparisons among unsintered hydroxyapatite/poly-L-lactic acid plate, poly-L-lactic acid plate, and titanium plate.	The purpose of this study is to compare the time-course changes in condylar long-axis and skeletal stability after sagittal split ramus osteotomy (SSRO) with an unsintered hydroxyapatite (u-HA)/poly-L-lactic acid (PLLA) plate, PLLA plate, or titanium plate.
Comparison of progressive cephalometric changes and postsurgical stability of skeletal Class III correction with and without presurgical orthodontic treatment.	This study compares 1) progressive dental and skeletal changes, 2) postsurgical stability, and 3) treatment efficacy of patients with skeletal Class III correction with and without presurgical orthodontic treatment.
Lateral cephalometry changes after SARPE.	Surgically assisted rapid palatal expansion (SARPE) is associated with postoperative cephalometric changes. In this study we analyse these changes in the sagittal plane in orthognathic patients undergoing SARPE followed by orthodontic treatment and Le Fort I, bilateral sagittal split osteotomy (BSSO), or bimaxillary surgery. This is a retrospective review of 50 patients (20 males, 30 females) undergoing orthognathic treatment with SARPE to correct transversal deficiency of the maxilla as part of a comprehensive treatment plan. PP-SN, SNA, and ANB angles were increased and U1-SN and U1-PP angles were decreased. All changes were statistically significant. Changes of SNB, PP-Mand plane angle, and SN-Mand. plane angle were not statistically significant. Surgically assisted rapid palatal expansion using a bone-borne appliance as a preparative step for later orthognathic surgery results in clockwise rotation of the maxilla.
Transsellar transsphenoidal encephalocele: a case report.	Basal encephaloceles are rare, accounting for about 1.5% of all encephaloceles. Transsellar transsphenoidal encephaloceles are the rarest variety of basal encephaloceles. We report a rare case of transsellar transsphenoidal encephalocele managed by a transnasal transseptal approach.
Surgical treatment of a calcified Rathke's cleft cyst with endoscopic extended transsphenoidal surgery--case report.	A 34-year-old male presented with a rare case of Rathke's cleft cyst (RCC) with calcification manifesting as persistent high fever and impaired consciousness. Physical findings revealed panhypopituitarism and bitemporal hemianopsia. Computed tomography showed mass lesions with marked calcification within the sella turcica and the suprasellar region. Magnetic resonance imaging showed solid and cystic components compressing the optic nerve. The preoperative diagnosis was craniopharyngioma. Initial endonasal transsphenoidal surgery (TSS) was performed with a surgical microscope, but the mass was extremely hard, so only partial removal was possible. Second endonasal extended TSS was performed with a neuroendoscope. The solid components were totally removed, but calcifications adhering to the optic nerve could not be removed completely. The histological diagnosis was RCC with marked granulation reaction. RCC with calcification is rare and difficult to differentiate from craniopharyngioma on neuroimages. Extremely thick calcification of the sella turcica enclosing granulation tissue and the cyst similar to armor, here called "armor-like calcification," is a characteristic imaging finding of RCC with calcification. The most important aspect is choosing a surgical approach to carefully and effectively relieve pressure upon the optic nerve. Endonasal extended TSS with an endoscope was effective in the present case.
Soft tissue changes from maxillary distraction osteogenesis versus orthognathic surgery in patients with cleft lip and palate--a randomized controlled clinical trial.	The objective of this randomized controlled clinical trial was to compare the soft tissue changes after maxillary advancement using conventional orthognathic surgery (CO) and distraction osteogenesis (DO) in patients with cleft lip and palate (CLP).
Sellar plasmacytomas: a concise review.	The diagnosis of a sellar plasmacytoma is often missed and is mistaken for a non functioning pituitary adenoma. We reviewed the literature on reported cases of sellar plasmacytoma in order to identify its clinical presentation, laboratory, radiological and pathological characteristics. We describe the management of these cases after the correct diagnosis was made and provide insight to preoperative diagnosis of this entity. Preoperative diagnosis may help avoid unnecessary surgical resection of an otherwise radiosensitive tumor. We also report and describe in detail a new case of sellar plasmacytoma that we have recently evaluated.
Primary empty sella with isolated ACTH deficiency and microprolactinoma.	The empty sella turcica is defined as the herniation of the subarachnoid space within the sella with displacement of the pituitary towards the posteroinferior wall. By autopsy studies, the incidence in the general population is around 20%. The association of prolactinoma and empty sella has been coincidental & infrequently reported. As such for microadenoma, visual field testing and screening for hypopituitarism is not needed, but if it is associated with empty sella, both visual field testing and screening for hypopituitarism is necessary.
Bronchial carcinoid tumors metastatic to the sella turcica and review of the literature.	We review here the literature on neuroendocrine neoplasms metastatic to the pituitary and present an example of the disease. Metastasis of bronchial carcinoid tumors to the sellar region are rare. Herein, we describe the case of a 63-year-old woman who presented with constant cough and headaches. She had previously been operated for carcinoid tumor of the lung. During the preoperative investigation, a CT scan of the head revealed a sellar mass. Six months after a left lower lobectomy, the sellar lesion was removed by transsphenoidal surgery. The two tumors were evaluated by histology, immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. Both showed identical morphologic features, those of carcinoid tumor. Immunohistochemistry revealed immunoreactivity for the endocrine markers, synaptophysin and chromogranin, as well as CD-56, serotonin, bombesin and vascular endothelial growth factor. The sellar neoplasm showed nuclear immunopositivity for thyroid transcription factor-1, supporting the diagnosis of a metastatic bronchial carcinoid tumor. In conclusion, this is the first report of a serotonin- and bombesin-immunopositive atypical bronchial carcinoid tumor metastatic to the sella.
Validation of the superior interhemispheric approach for tuberculum sellae meningioma: clinical article.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the ophthalmological outcome, nonvisual morbidity, and surgical complications after tuberculum sellae meningioma (TSM) removal using a superior interhemispheric approach.
Highly proliferative sellar chordoma with unusually rapid recurrence.	Chordomas are tumors of notochordal differentiation of low to intermediate grade malignancy. These tumors are typically slow growing, with an indolent but progressive clinical course. We present a case of a highly proliferative chordoma arising in a 73-year-old woman with unusually rapid clinical growth and aggressive histologic and immunohistochemical features. This patient had an unusually brief preclinical course and within 1 month of developing headaches presented to medical attention with diplopia. The resected chordoma showed uncommonly elevated mitotic activity, without the histologic hallmarks of de-differentiation. This proliferative activity correlated with elevated Ki67 staining (60%), B-cell leukemia/lymphoma1 (BCL1) expression (100%), and topoisomerase IIα staining (>95%). E-cadherin expression was also lost throughout the majority of the tumor. Other markers of epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) including vimentin, N-cadherin, Slug and Twist, were also strongly expressed in this aggressive tumor. The sellar component of the tumor recurred within a 2-month interval. The evaluation of the additional biomarkers, including makers of EMT studied in this, case may allow for identification of aggressive chordomas in which the tempo of disease is significantly more rapid than in typical cases of chordoma. 
Effect of primary correction of nasal septal deformity in complete unilateral cleft lip and palate on the craniofacial morphology.	To assess the long-term effect of primary correction of the nasal septum during lip repair in unilateral complete cleft lip and palate on the craniofacial morphology.
A lateral cephalometric x-ray study of selected vertical dimensions in children with atypical deglutition.	Atypical deglutition (tongue thrust swallowing) has been thought by some to be an etiological factor related to dental malocclusion, especially changes related to excessive increase in vertical facial growth. The purpose of this study was to investigate this possible relationship between atypical deglutition and vertical facial growth by documenting the lower, middle and upper facial areas of children with atypical deglutition. 55 lateral cephalometric radiographs were analyzed and measured in each of two groups of subjects according to standardized facial plane angles between the (I) palatal plane and mandibular plane, (II) palatal plane and occlusal plane, (III) mandibular plane and occlusal plane, (IV) skull base and Frankfurt plane, and (V) mandibular angle. The experimental group was comprised of 55 subjects with atypical deglutition, while 55 subjects with normal swallowing were used as a control group. The linear/angular measurements were subjected to Mann-Whitney statistical test with a significance level of 5%.
Displacement of mammillary bodies by craniopharyngiomas involving the third ventricle: surgical-MRI correlation and use in topographical diagnosis.	Accurate diagnosis of the topographical relationships of craniopharyngiomas (CPs) involving the third ventricle and/or hypothalamus remains a challenging issue that critically influences the prediction of risks associated with their radical surgical removal. This study evaluates the diagnostic accuracy of MRI to define the precise topographical relationships between intraventricular CPs, the third ventricle, and the hypothalamus.
Magnetic resonance imaging-verified temporomandibular joint disk displacement in relation to sagittal and vertical jaw deformities.	This retrospective study was designed to analyze the relationships between temporomandibular joint (TMJ) disk displacement and skeletal deformities in orthodontic patients. Subjects consisted of 460 adult patients. Before treatment, lateral cephalograms and TMJ magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were recorded. Subjects were divided into six groups based on TMJ MRI according to increasing severity of TMJ disk displacement, in the following order: bilateral normal TMJs, unilateral disk displacement with reduction (DDR) and contralateral normal, bilateral DDR, unilateral disk displacement without reduction (DDNR) and contralateral normal, unilateral DDR and contralateral DDNR, and bilateral DDNR. Subjects were subdivided sagittally into skeletal Class I, II, and III deformities based on the ANB (point A, nasion, point B) angle and subdivided vertically into hypodivergent, normodivergent, and hyperdivergent deformities based on the facial height ratio. Linear trends between severity of TMJ disk displacement and sagittal or vertical deformities were analyzed by Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test. The severity of TMJ disk displacement increased as the sagittal skeletal classification changed from skeletal Class III to skeletal Class II and the vertical skeletal classification changed from hypodivergent to hyperdivergent. There were no significant differences in the linear trend of TMJ disk displacement severity between the sexes according to the skeletal deformities. This study suggests that subjects with skeletal Class II and/or hyperdivergent deformities have a high possibility of severe TMJ disk displacement, regardless of sex. 
Midpalatal miniscrews and high-pull headgear for anteroposterior and vertical anchorage control: cephalometric comparisons of treatment changes.	Our aim was to evaluate which anchorage system is better suited for both anteroposterior and vertical anchorage control of maxillary posterior teeth.
Sellar collision tumor involving metastatic lung cancer and pituitary adenoma: radiologic-pathologic correlation and review of the literature.	Collision tumors of the sella turcica involving metastases to pituitary adenomas are rare. We report a case of a collision tumor involving metastatic lung cancer with an emphasis on the neuroimaging and histopathological studies. A review of the literature including the diagnostic and management implications as well as pathogenetic mechanisms is also discussed. 
Suprasellar salivary gland-like pleomorphic adenoma.	Suprasellar salivary gland-Like pleomorphic adenoma is not a common disease and seldom reported so far. We are reporting a case of a 23-year-old man with recurrent suprasellar salivary gland-like pleomorphic adenoma, who underwent an operation of subtotal, subfrontal resection under the wrong pathology diagnosis of benign teratoma in another hospital 4-year-ago. Four years later, he was admitted to our hospital for additional visual loss of the right eye (left, 1.0; right, 0.4) resulting from tumor regrowth. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed that suprasellar extension and compressed optic chiasm resulted in visual disturbance of the patient. The tumor was totally excised and histological examination evidenced the pathological features of intrasellar salivary gland-like pleomorphic adenoma. The patient did not receive any further treatment and he is free from tumor recurrence for 30 months after the operation. From this point of view, clinical prognosis of intrasellar salivary gland-like pleomorphic adenoma was good after total surgical resection. 
Second Class Resolver: a retrospective analysis.	To evaluate the use of Second Class Resolver (SCR), a new fixed orthopaedic appliance, for the treatment of skeletal Class II malocclusion in growing subjects.
Magnetic resonance imaging in craniopharyngiomas. The differential diagnosis of cystic intra- and suprasellar space-occupying lesions]	Seven patients with confirmed craniopharyngiomas were examined via magnetic resonance imaging. The various tumour components (whether solid, cystic or calcified) were evaluated separately. Three types of cysts were observed that can be distinguished by their signal intensity in various pulse sequences. This could be explained largely by an analysis of the T1 and T2 image contrast. The reason for the various types of cysts is determined by their cholesterol content. MR imaging is not as useful as CT for demonstrating the solid and calcified portions of the tumour and this reduces its value in diagnosing the type of tumour. Against that, it is superior with regard to separating the tumour from its neighbouring structures. The differential diagnosis, which must be considered in using MR, is summarised in a table at the end of the paper.
Sex difference in the relation between sellar volume and basal and GH-releasing hormone stimulated GH in acromegaly.	Sellar volume and both basal (r = +0.54, P less than 0.02) and GHRH-stimulated (r = +0.41, P less than 0.05) GH levels were directly correlated in a group of 28 patients with acromegaly as were the latter indices (r = +0.82, P less than 0.001). By subdividing the patients according to sex, a close relation between sellar size and both basal (r = +0.77, P less than 0.02) and stimulated GH (r = +0.71, P less than 0.02) was found only in the men, not in the women (r = +0.12 and r = +0.02, respectively, P greater than 0.10). The presence of a tight relation between sellar volume and basal and GHRH stimulated GH levels in male patients with acromegaly and its complete absence in women are equally intriguing and await further elucidation. A modulating role of gonadal steroids in the genesis of this sex differences remain to be assessed.
Posterior pituitary ectopia: an MR feature of pituitary dwarfism.	Using high-field-strength, 1.5-T, high-resolution MR, we identified the following complex of neurohypophyseal abnormalities in each of five pituitary dwarfs: (1) severe hypoplasia or total absence of the infundibulum; (2) absence of the posterior pituitary bright spot in its normal location; and (3) a 3-8-mm tissue nodule at the median eminence exhibiting lipidlike signal on T1-weighted images. On the basis of its signal features and the clinical absence of diabetes insipidus in these patients, the median eminence nodule appears to represent an ectopic and functional posterior pituitary gland. We propose that this anatomic derangement is the end result of a localized defect of developmental origin, possibly ischemic in nature, and involving principally the infundibular stem. Thus, human growth hormone deficiency could result from perinatal disruption of the peri-infundibular hypophyseal portal system, which in turn impairs anterior pituitary function through deprivation of direct delivery of crucial hypothalamic-releasing factors. Finally, we suggest that the trophic influence of continued axonal neurosecretion at the median eminence engages proliferation of rest cell pituicytes; a process that induces formation of an ectopic and functional posterior pituitary gland, complete with its characteristic bright spot.
Infrasellar craniopharyngioma: CT and MR studies.	A rare case of an infrasellar craniopharyngioma is reported. Pathological proof and CT and magnetic resonance (MR) images of the tumor are presented. This case is thought to demonstrate the first example of MR images of an infrasellar craniopharyngioma. Evidence suggesting that the tumor originated from an infrasellar location is presented.
Craniopharyngioma: CT and MR imaging in nine cases.	Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and CT examinations were performed in nine patients with surgically proven craniopharyngioma. Computed tomography was found to be superior to MR in detection of calcification and cyst formation. Extent of involvement of adjacent structures (e.g., optic chiasm, third ventricle, and intracavernous carotid artery) was more clearly delineated by MR. Craniopharyngioma fluid collections were found to be uniformly bright on T2-weighted sequences. However, on T1-weighted sequences, the signal intensity of the fluid ranged from hypointense to hyperintense, reflecting the heterogeneous contents of cysts in these tumors. Since calcification and cyst formation are hallmarks of craniopharyngiomas, we believe that CT is more specific than MR in diagnosis of craniopharyngiomas. Magnetic resonance, however, offers a more accurate assessment of the tumor extent.
Rathke cleft cysts: CT, MR imaging, and pathologic features.	The authors retrospectively reviewed the clinical, computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings in seven patients with pathologically proved Rathke cleft cysts. All the cysts were located in the anterior sella turcica or the anterior suprasellar cistern. Five cysts had both intra- and suprasellar components, one was entirely intrasellar, and the other was predominantly suprasellar in location. The size of the cysts ranged from 8 to 20 mm. CT scans demonstrated low-density homogeneous lesions in four cases. On MR images of three of these four cases, the cysts had the same intensity as cerebrospinal fluid on T1- and T2-weighted images, while in the fourth case, the cyst was hyperintense on the T1-weighted images. In the remaining three cases, CT showed slight hyperdensity relative to brain parenchyma, suggestive of contrast enhancement. MR showed signal heterogeneity of these lesions with focal components of diminished signal intensity of T2-weighted images. These same foci appeared iso- to slightly hyperintense on T1-weighted images.
Chiasmal syndrome caused by pituitary-sellar disproportion.	A patient with pituitary-sellar disproportion, a perichiasmal visual field defect, and no clinically demonstrable endocrinopathy is presented. Radiographic and pathologic studies suggested that the pituitary-sellar disproportion was secondary to sellar hypoplasia, a previously unrecognized cause of the chiasmal syndrome. It remains to be seen whether hormonal manipulation aimed at suppression of gonadotropin- and/or prolactin-secreting cells might obviate the need for exploration in patients similar to ours.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the sella turcica and parasellar region. A clinical-radiographic evaluation with computed tomography.	Thirty-one magnetic resonance (MR) scans and computed tomography (CT) scans were obtained on 25 patients in whom lesions involving the sella turcica or parasellar region were clinically suspected. Surgical pathologic studies were available in 19 cases. Twenty-two of the MR scans were of diagnostic value equivalent to that of the corresponding CT studies. In two small meningiomas, an empty sella, and a sphenoid-middle fossa tumor, MR technology failed to delineate the pathologic process adequately. In the remaining five patients, MR either more convincingly demonstrated the pathologic anatomy or yielded diagnostic information not present in the CT study. In view of the absence of ionizing radiation, high degree of tissue contrast and spatial resolution, and multiplanar capability, magnetic resonance scanning will probably become the initial imaging modality of choice in patients suspected of harboring sellar and parasellar tumors.
Volume of sella turcica in normals and patients with peripheral endocrinopathies or idiopathic gonadotropin deficiency.	The volume of sella turcica (VST) was estimated from x-ray films in i) 883 control subjects (507 men and 376 women), ii) 135 adult patients with peripheral endocrine gland insufficiences (71 of the thyroid, 15 of the adrenals and 49 of the gonads) and iii) 41 adult patients with idiopathic gonadotropin deficiency. The mean VST value of men (1356 +/- 22 mm3) was significantly lower (p less than 0.05) than that of women (1428 +/- 25 mm3). This difference resulted from a progressive increase of VST in women after the age of 45 (r = 0.254, p less than 0.001); the mean VST value of women aged less than 45 years (1301 +/- 33 mm3) been similar to that of men (p less than 0.05). VST was significantly (p less than 0.001) increased in peripheral endocrine insufficiences, this increase varying approximately between + 30% and + 55% of the mean volume of normals according to the endocrinopathy. Definitely abnormal sella turcica (VST larger than + 2SD) were observed in a percentage smaller than 27% of the cases in all groups. Furthermore, the increase in VST was significantly related to the severity of the disease in primary hypothyroidism (p less than 0.001) and the duration of the abnormal condition in Addison's disease and primary gonadal failure (p less than 0.001). Finally, VST was found within normal limits in patients with idiopathic gonadotropin deficiency. It is concluded that natural (menopause) or pathological peripheral endocrine insufficiency leads to VST enlargement which exceeds the upper normal limits in less than 27% of the cases.
Checking of hypophysectomy in the rat using longitudinal bone growth determined with tetracycline.	The longitudinal bone growth in 1922 consecutively hypophysectomized and surviving rats was determined with oxytetracycline. The longitudinal bone growth of proximal tibia during the first 15 postoperative days and the width of the fluorescent tetracycline band at 15 days after the operation were found to correlate well with the microscopical examination of serial sections of sella turcica. These growth parameters, when considered together, can be used as a means of screening whether hypophysectomy is complete. As a result microscopical examination of serial sections of the sella turcica to ascertain the completeness of the operation can be reduced to about the 10% of the animals where there remains some doubt.
Sinus histiocytosis with massive lymphadenopathy localized to the sella.	Sinus histiocytosis with massive lymphadenopathy (SHML) is a condition of unknown aetiology characterized by proliferation of histiocytes and lymphocytes, with the former phagocytosing the latter producing a typical histological appearance. Although first described in lymph nodes, cases have been reported in many extranodal sites, including the central nervous system. We report a case of SHML involving the sella turcica producing diabetes inspidus and pituitary dysfunction.
Gangliocytomas of the sellar region--a review.	Gangliocytomas are benign, slow growing neuronal tumors and are found for the most part in children and young adults. They are most often localized in either the spinal cord or the cerebral hemispheres. Gangliocytomas in the sellar region are extremely rare and only 43 such tumors (including 4 own cases) have ever been described in the literature. Although these tumors are genuine rarities without any epidemiological importance, they do provide some interesting information on tumorigenesis of pituitary adenomas: 65% of the sellar gangliocytomas are associated with a pituitary adenoma. 74% of patients with these tumors suffered hormonal oversecretion of at least one of the pituitary hormones (mostly growth hormone). With only one exception, the hypothalamic releasing hormone corresponding to the hormonal oversecretion syndrome could be demonstrated in the gangliocytoma immunohistochemically. Ultrastructural studies could demonstrate close cell to cell contacts between adenoma and gangliocytome cells. All these data support the hypothesis that chronic overstimulation by hypothalamic releasing hormones play a role in the development of hormone secreting pituitary adenomas. However, in contrast to sellar gangliocytemas, extrahypothalamic tumors secreting excessive hypothalamic hypophysiotropic hormones have never been associated with a pituitary adenoma. They have only been associated with pituitary cell hyperplasia. Therefore, the hypothesis can be made that hypothalamic releasing hormones only promote but do not initiate tumorigenesis of pituitary adenomas.
Sellar and parasellar extra-axial cavernous hemangiomas.	Cavernous hemangiomas can grow extra-axially within dural sinuses, particularly the cavernous sinus and present like tumours. Five cases of cavernous hemangiomas arising within or from the wall of the cavernous sinus are reported. Three of them had an "endophytic" growth within the cavernous sinus with a lateral extension into the middle cranial fossa, a medial extension into the sella and an anterior extension into the superior orbital fissure. Two cases presented with an "exophytic" extension from the sinus wall at the point of entry of the third and fourth cranial nerves respectively. These patterns of growths are best appreciated by MRI. Keeping in mind that these lesions are contained within a pseudocapsule will help in planing surgical strategy. Characteristic MRI findings of cavernous hemangiomas in this location include hypo-intensity on T 1-weighted images, marked hyperintensity on T2-weighted images and Gadolinium enhancement.
Spheno-occipital synchondrosis in three-month-old children with clefts of the lip and palate: a radiographic study.	The literature has been focused on differences in craniofacial form and dimension in cleft lip and palate patients. No attention has been given to possible alterations in the spheno-occipital synchondrosis although the synchondrosis is regarded as an important maturity and growth center. The purpose of the present investigation was to examine if the spheno-occipital synchondrosis in children born with major complete clefts differs on lateral radiographs from that of children born with minor incomplete clefts. Fifty-seven three-month-old children with complete clefts of the lip, alveolus and palate and 42 three-month-old children with minor incomplete clefts of the lip were included in the study. The results of the comparison showed that children with complete major clefts had a broader spheno-occipital synchondrosis compared to children with a minor incomplete cleft of the lip, and that the distance from the superior part of the synchondrosis to the sella point was shorter in children with complete clefts. These findings could be related to a defect or a delay in maturity in the early development of the cartilaginous cranial base in children with major clefts.
Meningiomas of sella turcica: some clinical aspects]	The authors present their own experience in the treatment of tuberculum sellae meningiomas. The presented series includes 14 patients operated on during past 7 years. Visual loss was the first symptom in 78% of patients. The period between the onset of symptom and surgical treatment was long and in the majority of patients exceeded 2 years. Monocular blindness was found in 71% of cases prior to surgery. The authors present the results of surgical treatment with special attention directed to visual function after surgery. In conclusion, the authors stress the still unacceptably long period between the onset of symptoms and correct diagnosis. When the size of tumour exceeds 4 cm and compressing of adjacent important neurovascular structures is evident, possibilities of total removal are limited and the chance for visual improvement is low.
Associations among upper airway structure, body position, and obesity in skeletal Class I male patients with obstructive sleep apnea.	Interactions between upper airway structure and posture in relation to obesity were studied in a sample of 61 adult Class I skeletal type male patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and 10 homologous control subjects. A pair of upright and supine lateral cephalometric films were taken for each subject. A Pearson correlation analysis identified significant r values for several demographic variables in patients with OSA such as apnea and hypopnea index, percentage of predicted neck circumference, minimum arterial oxygen saturation, and body mass index (BMI). The difference between cephalometric variables identified in upright and supine subjects was calculated. When patients with OSA changed their posture from upright to supine, significant correlations were observed between the cranial base to upper cervical column angle and the hypopharynx cross-sectional area and BMI. Moreover, the mandibular plane angle and the sella-nasion plane was significantly correlated with BMI. This occurred along with a significant positive correlation between the sella-nasion plane angle and BMI and a significant inverse correlation between the mandibular plane angle in reference to the absolute vertical and horizontal planes, with BMI after the positional change. Such correlations were not observed in control subjects. No correlations were observed between the variables related to the position of the hyoid bone with BMI in either patients with OSA or control subjects after the change in posture. On the basis of these findings, we propose that when patients with OSA change their body position from upright to supine (1) the patient's neck is more extended, and (2) the hyoid bone moves more anterosuperiorly in conjunction with an upward and forward rotation of the mandible. This change in craniofacial structure may be a compensatory geometrical change in the upper airway to secure its patency.
Morphological associations between the Angle classes.	The association between the Angle classification and craniofacial form has been analysed with the aid of multiple linear regression analysis in a sample of 170 children, before orthodontic treatment had started. It was found that part of the differences between Class II, Class I, and Class III was accounted for by systematical variation in a coherent set of midface and cranial base dimensions. These variations were in harmony with each other: the cranial base angle Ba-S-N closed and the legs S-N and S-Ba shortened systematically from Class II, over Class I, to Class III. The juvenile mandible notably was not systematically different. Because the cranial base provides the framework for the maxilla to be built upon, it is concluded that in juveniles the midface above anything else creates the characteristic difference between the three Angle classes, not the mandible. The Angle classification of malocclusion, therefore, represents three arbitrary markers on a morphological continuum.
Endosellar meningiomas: report of 2 cases and review of the literature.	Two cases of endosellar meningiomas are presented. The clinical and radiological picture is not always sufficiently specific to distinguish meningiomas from other types of sellar lesions, but pre-operative diagnosis is of fundamental importance in choosing the best surgical approach. In both cases, the transsphenoidal approach was used, and due to the dense consistency of the tumors, only biopsies were performed. One of the two patients was reoperated on using the sub-frontal approach for radical removal of the tumor. In the authors' experience, craniotomy proved to be the more favorable approach than the transsphenoidal route for radical excision of endosellar meningiomas. Literature on the classification of sellar meningiomas for radiological diagnosis and surgical strategy of endosellar meningiomas is reviewed.
Stability of changes associated with chin cup treatment.	Twenty-four Japanese girls with anterior crossbite (Class III malocclusion) were selected for this study of the stability of changes associated with chin cup therapy. Pretreatment cephalometric measurements of the study sample were compared with those in a normal group. In addition, angular and linear measurements were also compared to assess the effectiveness of chin cup therapy in improving Class III skeletal components during the postretention period. The subjects showed characteristic values found in Class III malocclusion for SNB, ANB, and NPg to FH, and these values were significantly different from those in the normal group. The subjects who were past puberty showed more severe Class III skeletal patterns for ANB compared with the prepubertal subjects, and their initial Class III skeletal components showed more satisfactory improvement, including 2.0 degrees increase of SNA and 1.8 degrees increase of ANB during the postretention period.
Long-term follow-up of germinoma after stereotactic biopsy and brain radiotherapy: a cell kinetics study.	The primary aim of this study is to report the long-term outcome of pineal and suprasellar germinoma after stereotactic biopsy and whole brain radiotherapy. The second purpose is to report an investigation of the biological features and cell kinetics of this peculiar and enigmatic brain tumour. Of 34 supratentorial germ cell tumours diagnosed and treated between 1980 and 1993, 20 patients were found to be affected by true germinoma localized in the pineal and/or suprasellar regions. The diagnosis was achieved by stereotactic biopsy in all cases. In 14 patients, the potential proliferative activity of the tumour was investigated by (3H)thymidine in vitro binding and labelling index determination. Chorionic gonadotropin, alpha-fetoprotein and embryonal carcinoma antigen were negative in the cerebrospinal fluid of these patients. All but 1 patient underwent whole brain radiotherapy. Clinical and neuroradiological follow-up ranged between 3 and 13 years (mean 8). Complete clinical and neuroradiological recovery was achieved in all patients after treatment. Fatal recurrences owing to neuraxis dissemination occurred in three cases. The labelling index in the whole series ranged between 0.1 and 5% (median 2.5). Only syncytiotrophoblastic cells had proliferative activity, while none of the lymphoid-like cells showed thymidine labelling.
A retrospective comparison of craniofacial form in Northern Irish children with unilateral cleft lip and palate.	This study evaluated the craniofacial form of a sample of Northern Irish children with unilateral cleft lip and palate (UCLP). The quality of the outcomes achieved was compared with the outcomes reported for the six centers involved in the European multicenter study (Mars et al., 1992; Mølsted et al, 1992).
 A case of parasellar tumor with double histological texture: chromophobe pituitary adenoma and epidermoid cyst]	A rare case of a 42-year-old woman with an intra- and suprasellar tumour with double histological texture (chromophobe pituitary adenoma and epidermoid cyst) is presented. Elevated serum prolactin levels were found on admission. After the surgery symptoms of diabetes insipidus appeared. On the ground of the presented case and review of references it seems that the coexistence of an epidermoid cyst and a pituitary adenoma suggest their common histogenetic origin.
