Requirement of Notch 1 and its ligand jagged 2 expressions for spermatogenesis in rat and human testes.	It has already been demonstrated that the Notch signaling system is essential for gametogenesis in the adult germ line of Caenorhabditis elegans. However, the role of the Notch signaling system in mammalian spermatogenesis has not been well investigated. Recently, it has been revealed that this signaling system is expressed in the mammalian testis by showing coexpression of Jagged 2 and its receptor, Notch 1, is consistent with Notch 1 being a cognate receptor for Jagged 2 in the mammalian testis. Therefore, we investigated expressions of messenger RNAs of Notch 1 and Jagged 2 in the testicular tissues of developing Sprague-Dawley rats by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Northern blot analysis, expressions of their proteins in the testicular tissues of developing rats, fertile human controls and infertile human patients with maturation arrest by immunohistochemistry, and effects of antibodies to this system by culturing rat testicular tissues with these antibodies. Transcripts of Notch 1 and Jagged 2 in the rat testis were positive throughout the examined period; these intensities became higher at day 13 after birth, coincidence with the formation of spermatocytes, and peaked at day 19 after birth. Expressions of Notch 1 and Jagged 2 were recognized at first in the perinuclear regions of spermatocytes in the rat testis as a round structure at day 19 after birth and thereafter in further differentiated germ cells as meiosis proceeded. In the adult rat testis, positive staining was present as a round structure in spermatocytes, as a typical horseshoe-shaped structure in round spermatids, and as a covering structure spreading around the nucleus of elongated spermatids, but not in spermatozoa. Notch 1 was recognized in the vacuole of the Golgi complex of primary spermatocytes and the acrosome of elongated spermatids with electron microscopy. When rat testicular tissues were cultured with anti-Notch 1 or anti-Jagged 2 antibody, round and elongated spermatids decreased after 5 and 7 days of culture, respectively, and disappeared at around 9 and 12 days of culture, respectively, with shrinkage of the diameter of seminiferous tubules. Spermatocytes, however, increased after 11 days of culture. Expressions of both proteins have been detected in the testicular tissues of human fertile controls as in the rat testicular tissues. However, Notch 1 expression has not been detected in testicular tissues of 11 patients with maturation arrest, whereas Jagged 2 expression has been recognized in all of them. In conclusion, the results presented in this study offer the possibility that Notch 1/Jagged 2 signaling system plays an important role for male germ cells to differentiate or at least to survive in the rat testis and fails to express in the testis of spermatogenic maturation arrest patients.
Development of seminiferous tubules in guinea pigs during puberty]	The study of development of the seminiferous tubules of the guinea-pig along the puberty is based on diameter, length and volume relate to testicular weight and age. During this period the development is linear. A correlation exist between testicular testosterone concentration and growth of seminiferous tubules in diameter and in length from day 16 to 60, stage of puberty in which the first spermatozoa appear.
Detection of secreted and temporarily inducible heat shock responsive proteins in mouse testicular tissue.	Temperature-induced effects on the synthesis of murine testicular proteins were investigated by one- and two-dimensional SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Newly synthesized proteins were monitored by incorporation of 35S-methionine and autoradiography. Three heat shock responsive proteins, which are differently affected by elevated temperatures, are described. These proteins represent special examples for how testicular cells respond to environmental stress. One of these proteins, HSl36, is synthesized and secreted at 38 degrees C, whereas at lower, scrotal temperatures it is not detectable. HSlD74 protein is synthesized at elevated temperatures, but only in prepuberal testis, not in adult. Synthesis of the third example, HSR28, is decreased within the seminiferous tubules, but only in those regions which bear cell associations of the elongation stage. These results indicate that the use of DNA probes of the 'heat shock'-gene family might not be sufficient to describe the molecular reasons for impaired spermatogenesis following hyperthermia.
In utero protein restriction causes growth delay and alters sperm parameters in adult male rats.	Recent studies have supported the concept of "fetal programming" which suggests that during the intrauterine development the fetus may be programmed to develop diseases in adulthood. The possible effects of in utero protein restriction on sexual development of rat male offspring were evaluated in the present study.
Evolution of somatic and germ cell populations after busulfan treatment in utero or neonatal cryptorchidism in the rat.	In order to elucidate the respective effects of depletion of germ cells and of increase in testicular temperature, rats of the same Wistar strain were rendered experimentally bicryptorchid or sterilized by a busulfan injection in utero and compared to control animals. In both models, germ cells were depleted but numeric evolution and functions of somatic cells differed. The aim of that work was to compare the numeric evolutions of testicular somatic and germ cells to their respective functions in each model before puberty and in adult rats of the same strain. Serum concentrations of FSH, LH and testosterone were compared at 20, 40 and 110 days of age. Histological analyses of Sertoli and germ cells in the seminiferous tubules and of Leydig cells in the intertubular tissue were performed before puberty and at adulthood. Testosterone serum concentrations were depleted in both models starting at 40 days of age and more in busulfan-treated rats. Both FSH and LH levels were increased from 20 days onwards in experimental rats. Additional cryptorchidism in busulfan-treated rats depressed the serum testosterone concentration. At 17 days of age, the cryptorchidism do not modify somatic or germ cell populations while busulfan treatment has induced a decrease of both these populations. Conversely, the cross sectional area of the somatic testicular cells was not affected whatever the treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Postnatal development of the testes in the cuis, Galea Musteloides.	Testicular development to 9 months of age has been studied. Seminiferous tubule diameter increased in a linear manner between 13 and 65 days of age, and there was a steep increase in testicular weight with age. At about 9 months the animals weighed 400-500 g and total testicular weight was about 10 g. This relatively large testicular size was correlated with high sperm density in the semen. Spermatogenesis commenced at about 21-25 days of age, when the first spermatids were found. Spermatozoa appeared in a small proportion of seminiferous tubules by 31-35 days of age, and were seen in the epididymides of an animal of 31 and another of 34 days. Epididymal spermatozoas were consistently present in large numbers after 60 days and this correlated with the increased frequency of mature seminiferous tubules. Leydig cell size increased rapidly from 13 to about 60 days, then remained constant. Inferences have been drawn from this and the study of spermatogenesis about the level of testosterone secretion. The results indicate that the male cuis is almost fully grown and sexually mature by about 90 days of age.
