Aneuploidy of human testicular germ cell tumors is associated with amplification of centrosomes.	Testicular germ cell tumors occur in three age groups. Seminomas and nonseminomas of adults, including mature teratomas, and the precursor carcinoma in situ (CIS) are aneuploid. This also holds true for yolk sac tumors of newborn and infants, while the mature teratomas of this age are diploid. In contrast, spermatocytic seminomas occurring in the elderly contain both diploid and polyploid cells. Aneuploidy has been associated with centrosome aberrations, sometimes related to overexpression of STK15. Aneuploidy of non-neoplastic germ cells has been demonstrated in the context of male infertility, a risk factor for the development of seminoma/nonseminoma. We investigated aneuploidy, centrosome aberrations and the role of STK15 in different types of testicular germ cell tumors as well as in normal and disturbed spermatogenesis. The aneuploid seminomas and nonseminomas tumors (including CIS) showed increased numbers of centrosomes, without STK15 amplification or overexpression. Four out of six infantile teratomas had normal centrosomes, the remaining two and an infantile yolk sac tumor showed a heterogeneous pattern of cells with normal or amplified centrosomes. Spermatocytic seminomas had two, four or eight centrosomes. Germ cells in seminiferous tubules with disturbed spermatogenesis shared both aneuploidy and centrosome abnormalities with seminomas/nonseminomas and showed a more intense STK15 staining than those with normal spermatogenesis and CIS. Therefore, aneuploidy of testicular germ cell tumors is associated with amplified centrosomes probably unrelated to STK15.
Serum lactate dehydrogenase isoenzyme 1. An early indicator of relapse in patients with testicular germ cell tumors.	The present study aimed to evaluate serum lactate dehydrogenase isoenzyme 1 (S-LD-1) as an indicator of relapse for patients with testicular germ cell tumors. Twenty-seven patients were investigated with repeated determinations of S-LD-1 from diagnosis to relapse; 9 had seminoma and 18 nonseminomatous tumors. Eleven of 21 had raised S-LD-1 at relapse (4 with seminoma). Seven of the 27 patients had a raised S-LD-1 for median 2 months (1.4-4.5 months) before relapse was detected. Thus, S-LD-1 is of use, complementary to clinical examinations, determinations of serum alpha fetoprotein and human chorionic gonadotropin, and CT scans, in monitoring patients with testicular germ cell tumors for relapse.
Immunoreactive neuron-specific enolase (NSE) is expressed in testicular carcinoma-in-situ.	Neuron-specific enolase (NSE) is a well-known marker of tumours that have neuroendocrine origin. High levels of NSE have also been described in various types of testicular germ cell neoplasms, particularly in seminomas. To evaluate the presence of NSE in testicular carcinoma-in situ (CIS), a preinvasive stage of testicular germ cell tumours, a panel of CIS tissue specimens was examined. Fifteen of 18 (83 per cent) CIS samples showed immunohistochemical staining with anti-NSE monoclonal antibody. Immunoreactivity has also been found in overt testicular germ cell tumours, including seminomas, non-seminomas, and a mixed germ cell tumour. As the co-existence of high NSE production and gene amplification of N-myc has been reported in some tumours, including germ cell tumours, the expression of the protein product of N-myc was also examined in this study, but only sporadic cases showed N-myc staining. These results are evidence against a relationship between NSE and N-myc in testicular germ cell tumours. The high expression of NSE in CIS and overt germ cell tumours may be due to the increased gene dosage effect associated with the overrepresentation of isochromosome 12p.
