Distinct antigenic characteristics of murine parietal yolk sac laminin.	Two monoclonal antibodies (LAM-A and LAM-B) specific for laminin from normal and neoplastic parietal yolk sac (PYS) cells were produced in rats immunized with a mouse yolk sac carcinoma cell line. Both antibodies immunoprecipitated the 400,000- and 200,000-Da chains of laminin and reacted with purified PYS laminin in ELISA. LAM-A reacted with mouse and rat PYS laminin, whereas LAM-B reacted only with mouse PYS laminin. Formaldehyde- and methanol-fixed adult and fetal somatic tissues were immunohistochemically unreactive with either of the two antibodies. In acetone-fixed tissue sections, both antibodies reacted weakly with some medullary tubules of the kidney, the follicular basement membrane of the ovaries, and the seminiferous tubules. The antibodies appear to react with the polypeptide determinants residing on the terminal portion of the long arm of laminin. It is concluded that laminin derived from normal or malignant PYS cells has distinct antigenic sites that are immunochemically not apparent in most other basement membranes.
The blood-testis barrier: a morphologic or physiologic phenomenon?	Blood urea is concentrated in rat seminiferous tubule fluid. Data are presented that provide strong evidence that this urea movement is dependent on active sodium transport. In contrast, in the hamster blood urea is excluded partially from the seminiferous tubule. This may be caused by transport of urea from the lumen to the blood rather than secondary to the morphologic blood, testis barrier at the Sertoli to Sertoli cell tight junctions.
The secretion, measurement, and function of a testicular LHRH-like factor.	In this paper we have demonstrated the presence and secretion within the testis of a factor that is immunologically distinct from LHRH, but that has receptor-binding and bioactive features similar to LHRH. The major source of this LHRH-like factor is probably the Sertoli cell and, as its site of action appears to be restricted to the Leydig cells, it is possible that it is one of the means by which the Sertoli cell has been postulated to regulate the Leydig cell. All of the available evidence suggests that the action of the LHRH-like factor on the Leydig cell is inhibitory, and it may mediate some or all of the negative effects on the Leydig cell of LH and hCG. The precise role of the LHRH-like factor, particularly under physiological conditions (i.e., low level stimulation with LH), remains to be determined, but the availability of methods for its extraction, measurement, and inactivation should enable this problem to be resolved within the near future. Moreover, the recognition that Leydig cell function may be regulated by local factors within the testis should open up new avenues of research that may lead to improved methods for the regulation of fertility in the male.
