Chemotherapy of brain metastases from lung carcinoma: a controlled randomized study.	A controlled randomized study was carried out to evaluate the effects of chemotherapy in patients with brain metastases from lung carcinoma. One hundred patients were randomly divided into three groups at the time of diagnosis or after surgery for metastases. Group A received radiotherapy alone; Group B received radiotherapy and chloroethylnitrosoureas (methyl-CCNU, 100-120 mg/m2, or ACNU 80-100 mg/m2, every 6-8 weeks), and Group C received radiotherapy and a combination of chloroethylnitrosoureas and tegafur (300 mg/m2, daily). Of the 100 patients, 88 could be evaluated. The reduction rates of the tumors of the patients in whom tumor was not surgically removed or not totally removed were compared. Complete resolution of the tumor was noted in 29, 69, and 63% of the patients in Groups A, B, and C, respectively. Tumor regression of greater than or equal to 50% was seen in 36, 69, and 74% of the patients in Groups A, B, and C, respectively. The difference in the response rates of Groups A and C was statistically significant (P less than 0.05). Median survival after the start of treatment for brain metastasis was 27, 30.5, and 29 weeks in Groups A, B and C, respectively. There was 1 long-term survivor (more than 5 years) in Group A, 3 in Group B, and 1 in Group C. The main cause of death was deterioration attributable to the primary lesion or systemic metastasis, and no statistical difference was noted in survival time among the groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Current status of the therapy of advanced renal carcinoma.	A preclinical murine renal model system is available for evaluation of the effectiveness of therapeutic agents. Clinical review reveals that objective response rates to hormonal agents reported since 1971 have been substantially lower than those reported prior to 1971. Many chemotherapeutic agents have not been adequately evaluated clinically or with the experimental model. Vinblastine to date may be the most active single agent with a 25% objective response rate. At the present time, it is uncertain whether combination chemotherapy or hormonal chemotherapy add to response rates obtained with single agents. There is some evidence that immunotherapy may be of some adjuvant benefit and, thus may provide an additional avenue of investigation.
The effect on survival of initial chemotherapy in advanced breast cancer: polychemotherapy versus single drug.	Since current clinical trials assessing new agents occur in patients with advanced breast cancer having failed one and sometimes many polychemotherapy programs, these new agents may not be given a fair trial. In an effort to assess the possibility of using an alternative study design, we analyzed older clinical trials that used a controlled study design, randomizing between a single new drug and an established polychemotherapy program with a cross-over design upon failure. We were interested in noting that the pooled data did display a slight survival advantage (median 3.7 months) for the group receiving polychemotherapy as initial therapy. The survival distributions were clearly not significant using the log rank test, but did approach significance using the Smirnov. It is apparent that, while some slight advantage does occur for that group of patients receiving initial polychemotherapy, the magnitude of this effect is not great and is short in duration. Serious consideration should be given to the assessment of new agents as first-line therapy, particularly should they have a unique mode of action or lessened morbidities or toxicities.
Phase II evaluation of dibromodulcitol and actinomycin D, hydroxyurea, and cyclophosphamide in previously untreated patients with malignant melanoma.	In this Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) phase II study, dibromodulcitol (DBD) and a combination of actinomycin D, hydroxyurea, and cyclophosphamide (AHC) were compared with methyl-CCNU, the current ECOG standard, in patients who had received no prior chemotherapy for disseminated malignant melanoma. The response rates were 6% (3/50) for AHC, 9% (3/34) for DBD, and 14% (7/49) for methyl-CCNU. Median survival times were 4, 5, and 6 months, respectively. Neither regimen appears to offer any advantage over methyl-CCNU as front-line therapy for patients with disseminated melanoma.
Long term response to chemotherapy in patients with visceral metastatic melanoma.	Eight patients who remain in long term remission 4 to 15 years after chemotherapy for visceral metastatic melanoma are described. These patients were observed among some 1100 patients with visceral melanoma seen at the Sydney Melanoma Unit between 1977 and 1989. Only about one-third of such patients received chemotherapy, almost always with single agent dacarbazine or a nitrosourea.
