Capillary supercritical fluid chromatography of pyrrolizidine alkaloids.	The application of capillary supercritical fluid chromatography (SFC) for the separation of pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs) is examined. Most of these compounds are powerful toxins. Because they are present in at least 3% of all flowering plants, they are responsible for serious losses of livestock and human disease. Capillary SFC, with its high separation efficiency, is shown to be an excellent method for the chromatographic analysis of complex PA mixtures. Complete separation of the PAs of the retronecine and otonecine family has been achieved by pressure-programmed capillary SFC. The operating conditions are mild enough to prevent thermal decomposition of the alkaloids during analysis.
Livestock poisoning in South America by species of the Senecio plant.	The pyrrolizidine alkaloids retrorsine, senecionine, integerrimine, neosenkirkine and florosenine were isolated from different Senecio spp. common in southern Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay. Structure elucidation of these compounds was mainly accomplished by two-dimensional FT NMR techniques. Detailed interpretations of 1H-1H and 1H-13C NMR correlation spectra are given. The alkaloids neosenkirkine, integerrimine and florosenine were found in Senecio leptolobus De Candolle, retrorsine accompanied by senecionine in Senecio selloi (Spreng.) DC and Senecio cisplatinus Cabrera. In Senecio heterotrichus DC. integerrimine is accompanied by retrorsine. Investigations on pathology and histopathology of Senecio envenomation in Brazil are summarized.
Identification of pyrrolizidine alkaloids (Senecio longilobus).	Pyrrolizidine alkaloids derived from Senecio longilobus have been rapidly isolated and identified. The potential of isolating individual pyrrolizidine alkaloids utilizing high pressure liquid chromatography is discussed. The utilization of a single 10 mu CN column to isolate closely related pyrrolizidine alkaloids suggests a marked improvement in pyrrolizidine alkaloid chemistry.
