Three new and two rare furanoeremophilanes from Senecio asirensis.	Three new furanoeremophilanes have been obtained from the aerial parts of Senecio asirensis (N. O. Asteraceae), and characterized as 6-hydroxylmethyl-9-methoxyl-4,11-dimethylnaphtho[2,3-b]furan, designated asirensane-a (1), 6-hydroxyl-1,2-dimethoxyl-4,6,11-trimethyl-6-hydronaphtho[2,3-a]furan-7-one, named asirensane-b (2), and (6,12-dihydroxyl-9-methoxyl-4-methyl-11-acetyl-3,4-dihydronaphtho[2,3-b]furan- 3-yl)methyl (2'Z)-2'-methyl-but-2'-enoate, designated asirensane-c (3). In addition, two rare furanoeremophilanes have also been isolated and characterized from this source, namely 9-methoxyl-4,11-dimethylnaphtho[2,3-b]furan, named 14-nordehydro-calohastine (4), and 4,11-dimethylnaphtho[2,3-b]furan-6,9-dione, designated as maturinone (5). Their structures have been elucidated on the basis of spectral analysis. The alcoholic extract was also tested for anti-inflammatory activity, which decreased edema by 22% at a dose of 500 mg kg-1 after 3 h with respect to the control group treated only with carrageenan, while the standard drug phenylbutazone showed a 50% decrease at a dose of 100 mg kg-1, indicating that the extract has moderate anti-inflammatory activity.
Senecio spp poisoning in cattle in southern Brazil.	Epidemiological, clinical, necropsy and histopathological data were accumulated during the study of 15 outbreaks of Senecio spp poisoning in cattle occurring during the last 3 y in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Morbidity averaged 17% and mortality was virtually 100%. The peak mortality occurred during spring and early summer. The most constant clinical signs included anorexia, depression, tenesmus often followed by rectal prolapse, and rough hair coat. Affected animals remained apart from the rest of the herd, lost weight, presented ascites, and had signs of digestive and neurological disturbances. Icterus, photodermatitis, polydipsia, and dependent subcutaneous edema were occasionally noticed. Two main clinical courses could be distinguished. In the protracted form, progressive weight loss terminated with death within many weeks or months. Alternatively, an acute or subacute course led to death in a few days. In both forms, necropsy and histopathological findings included diffuse fibrosis of the liver, hepatomegalocytosis, and biliary hyperplasia. Extrahepatic lesions included gastrointestinal and mesenteric edema, distension, edema and adenomatoid hyperplasia of the gallbladder, and spongy degeneration of the cerebral white matter. S brasiliensis and S oxyphyllus were the species involved in the field outbreaks.
Bioactive plants from Argentina and Bolivia.	Antibacterial and molluscicidal activities of methanol and chloroform extracts of 16 plant species belonging to the families Compositae and Melastomataceae were evaluated. The chloroform extract of Vernonanthura tweediana and the methanol extract of Senecio santelisis resulted to be very toxic to brine shrimp nauplii (LC(50)=1 microg/ml). Chloroform extracts of S. santelisis and Senecio leucostachys as well as the methanol extract of Wedelia subvaginata displayed molluscicidal effects on Biomphalaria peregrina showing LC(100)<100 microg/ml. Moderate antibacterial action was produced by the chloroform extracts of Flaveria bidentis, Grindelia scorzonerifolia and Vernonia incana against two strains of Staphylococcus aureus.
Monocrotaline pneumotoxicity in mice.	Lung injury induced in rats by the pyrrolizidine alkaloid monocrotaline is a well-documented model of pulmonary hypertension. To our knowledge, however, monocrotaline-induced cardiopulmonary injury has rarely been described and has never been quantitated in mice. In the present study, adult male mice received 2.4, 4.8, or 24.0 mg monocrotaline/kg body weight/day in the drinking water continuously for 6 weeks. These doses represent 1, 2, and 10 times the severely pneumotoxic regimen in rats. Pulmonary endothelial function was monitored by right lung angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) activity, plasminogen activator (PLA) activity, and prostacyclin (PGI2) and thromboxane (TXA2) production. Light and electron microscopy were performed on the left lungs. Cardiac right ventricular hypertrophy was evaluated by the right ventricle to left ventricle plus septum weight ratio (RV/LV + S). Monocrotaline-treated mice exhibited a dose-dependent decrease in lung ACE and PLA activities and an increase in PGI2 and TXA2 production, indicative of endothelial dysfunction. However, these responses were significant only after the highest monocrotaline dose. Light and electron microscopy revealed dose-dependent pulmonary inflammatory and exudative reactions. Unlike previous studies in rats, however, monocrotaline-treated mice developed relatively little lung fibrosis, cardiomegaly, or right ventricular hypertrophy, and no occlusive medial thickening of the pulmonary arteries, even at the highest dose level. These and previous data indicate that there are quantitative biochemical and qualitative morphological differences between mice and rats with respect to monocrotaline pneumotoxicity. Furthermore, in monocrotaline-treated mice (but not in rats) there appears to be a dissociation between lung endothelial dysfunction and inflammation on the one hand, and pulmonary hypertension and fibrosis on the other.
Relationship of age and season and consumption of Senecio vulgaris to LH/hCG receptors in the stallion testis.	Testes were obtained from 70 colts and stallions and were pooled according to age (4 months to 23 years) to determine the relationship of age to LH/hCG receptor kinetics. The receptor concentration (Rt) increased from 0.069 x 10(-11) M/mg crude membrane fraction (CMF) for the 4-14-month pools to 0.464 x 10(-11) M for the 2-3-year-old pools. A 10-fold increase in testicular size also occurred, and so the total number of receptors per testis was significantly increased. A further increase to 1.237 x 10(-11) M/mg CMF was observed for stallions older than 5 years. No differences in binding affinities (Ka) were observed for the various age groups: Ka values varied from 0.19 to 2.19 x 10(11) M-1. A seasonal effect was not (P less than 0.28) observed for Rt [0.74 x 10(-11) M vs 1.15 x 10(-11) M/mg CMF, winter (N = 5) vs summer (N = 4)] or for Ka (0.259 x 10(11) M-1 vs 0.393 x 10(11) M-1, winter vs summer). Immediately before death resulting from inadvertent long-term consumption of Senecio vulgaris, testes were removed from 5 stallions and pooled. An Rt of 0.046 x 10(-11) M/mg CMF was observed. Therefore, a decrease to 2.7% was observed when compared with values for normal stallions. The Ka, 0.036 x 10(11) M-1, was decreased to less than 10%. Stallions consuming sublethal amounts may have altered reproductive functions.
Carcinogenic activity of Farfugium japonicum and Senecio cannabifolius.	The carcinogenicity of Farfugium japonicum and Senecio cannabifolius was studied in ACI rats. In Group I, rats were given a diet containing 20% Farfugium japonicum. Groups II, III, IV and V were given diets containing 8%, 4%, 1% and 0.2% Senecio cannabifolius until the end of the experiment, respectively. The experiment was terminated after 480 days, except for Group V which was terminated 560 days after the start of feeding. Hemangioendothelial sarcoma of the liver and liver cell adenoma were induced in Groups I, IV and V. All rats in Groups II and III died of hepatotoxicity within a short period.
Veno-occlusive liver disease due to intake of Senecio vulgaris tea]	Veno-occlusive liver disease (VOLD) is a cause of portal hypertension by non thrombotic obstruction of hepatic venous drainage attributed to multiple etiologies (toxic, irradiation, antineoplastic, conditioning for bone marrow transplantation). One case of VOLD in a senile patient due to continuous two year consumption of Senecio vulgaris tea is reported. This compound, which has a high pyrrolizidine alkaloid content induced a subacute course of portal hypertension and death. The clinicopathologic features of VOLD and the etiopathogenesis in relation to the pyrrolizidine alkaloids present in Senecio vulgaris are discussed. The need for considering the history of medicinal plant ingestion in patients under portal hypertension studies are strongly recommended as is the advice regarding the possible dangers involved in the inappropriate use of remedies provided by herbalists.
