Localization of Hg and Pb in the palps, the digestive gland and the gills in Mytilus galloprovincialis (L.) using autometallography and X-ray microanalysis.	The intracellular localization of heavy metals using autometallography (AMG) and X-ray microanalysis was studied in the palps, the digestive gland and the gills of mussels Mytilus galloprovincialis, after an experimental exposure to 0.1 mg l(-1) of Hg and 0.1 mg l(-1) of Pb, for 30 and 60 days. In the examined tissues, autometallographical black silver deposits (BSD) were localized mainly in the residual bodies and heterolysosomes of the digestive cells, as well as in the dense bodies of the epithelial cells. Metal deposition after Hg exposure was much more abundant compared to Pb exposure. Using X-ray microanalysis, Hg was traced on the BSD in all examined tissues, while Pb was not traced in these deposits. The results are discussed in comparison to previous results on long-term exposure to the same metals; in addition, the palps are introduced as a new metal storing organ and, finally, the use of X-ray microanalysis under a scanning electron microscope in order to enhance the specificity of AMG is suggested.
FlyPNS, a database of the Drosophila embryonic and larval peripheral nervous system.	The embryonic and larval peripheral nervous system of Drosophila melanogaster is extensively studied as a very powerful model of developmental biology. One main advantage of this system is the ability to study the origin and development of individual sensory cells. However, there remain several discrepancies regarding the organization of sensory organs in each abdominal segment A1-A7.
Expression profiling of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-delta (PPAR-delta) in mouse tissues using tissue microarray.	Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-delta (PPAR-delta) is known as a transcription factor involved in the regulation of fatty acid oxidation and mitochondrial biogenesis in several tissues, such as skeletal muscle, liver and adipose tissues. In this study, to elucidate systemic physiological functions of PPAR-delta, we examined the tissue distribution and localization of PPAR-delta in adult mouse tissues using tissue microarray (TMA)-based immunohistochemistry. PPAR-delta positive signals were observed on variety of tissues/cells in multiple systems including cardiovascular, urinary, respiratory, digestive, endocrine, nervous, hematopoietic, immune, musculoskeletal, sensory and reproductive organ systems. In these organs, PPAR-delta immunoreactivity was generally localized on the nucleus, although cytoplasmic localization was observed on several cell types including neurons in the nervous system and cells of the islet of Langerhans. These expression profiling data implicate various physiological roles of PPAR-delta in multiple organ systems. TMA-based immunohistochemistry enables to profile comprehensive protein localization and distribution in a high-throughput manner.
LUSH odorant-binding protein mediates chemosensory responses to alcohols in Drosophila melanogaster.	The molecular mechanisms mediating chemosensory discrimination in insects are unknown. Using the enhancer trapping approach, we identified a new Drosophila mutant, lush, with odorant-specific defects in olfactory behavior. lush mutant flies are abnormally attracted to high concentrations of ethanol, propanol, and butanol but have normal chemosensory responses to other odorants. We show that wild-type flies have an active olfactory avoidance mechanism to prevent attraction to concentrated alcohol, and this response is defective in lush mutants. This suggests that the defective olfactory behavior associated with the lush mutation may result from a specific defect in chemoavoidance. lush mutants have a 3-kb deletion that produces a null allele of a new member of the invertebrate odorant-binding protein family, LUSH. LUSH is normally expressed exclusively in a subset of trichoid chemosensory sensilla located on the ventral-lateral surface of the third antennal segment. LUSH is secreted from nonneuronal support cells into the sensillum lymph that bathes the olfactory neurons within these sensilla. Reintroduction of a cloned wild-type copy of lush into the mutant background completely restores wild-type olfactory behavior, demonstrating that this odorant-binding protein is required in a subset of sensilla for normal chemosensory behavior to a subset of odorants. These findings provide direct evidence that odorant-binding proteins are required for normal chemosensory behavior in Drosophila and may partially determine the chemical specificity of olfactory neurons in vivo.
