The course of maturation of rod-mediated visual thresholds in infants.	To measure the developmental course of infants' rod-mediated thresholds.
Pattern electrical stimulation of the human retina.	Experiments were conducted to study if electrical stimulation of the retinal surface can elicit visual sensation in individuals blind from end-stage retinitis pigmentosa (RP) or age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Under local anesthesia, different stimulating electrodes were inserted through the eyewall and positioned over the surface of the retina. Subjects' psychophysical responses to electrical stimulation were recorded. Subjects perceived simple forms in response to pattern electrical stimulation of the retina. A non-flickering perception was created with stimulating frequencies between 40 and 50 Hz. The stimulation threshold was dependent on the targeted retinal area (macular versus extramacular).
Variation in the evoked ventricular potentials after the implantation of an endocardiac catheter; the correlation with stimulation thresholds]	The drop in T wave amplitude of the ventricular pace-evoked response (VER) is a well-recognized and reliable mean of detecting localized conditions of myocardial hypoxia. In patients who undergo pacemaker implantation, the post-implant change at the electrode-tissue interface consists of an early inflammatory reaction. The aim of this study was to establish whether the extent of the inflammatory reaction following an endocardial lead can be assessed by the changes in the T wave amplitude of VER.
The study of jaw reflexes evoked by electrical stimulation of the lip: the importance of stimulus intensity and polarity.	The aim of this study was to investigate whether reported differences in the patterns of jaw reflexes which can be evoked by electrical stimulation of the lip might be related to the intensity or polarity of the stimuli. Constant-current stimuli were applied through bipolar electrodes clipped across the lower lip of 14 subjects while EMG recordings were made from a masseter muscle. During stimulation, the subjects sustained a level of masseter activity equivalent to 10% of their maximum. The stimuli were applied as multiples of sensory threshold. The EMGs were analysed following rectification, averaging and smoothing. A sequence of inhibitory, excitatory, inhibitory and excitatory responses could be produced in the muscle by both polarities of stimuli. The latencies of these four responses were generally in the ranges 10-20, 25-40, 40-55 and 80-100 ms, respectively. These latencies, particularly for the last two responses, tended to decrease at higher intensities of stimulation. The threshold for the long-latency inhibition was significantly lower than that for the short-latency inhibition when the cathode was outside the mouth but not when it was inside the mouth. In addition, the long-latency excitation had the lowest threshold of the four responses regardless of stimulus polarity. Since nerves are excited particularly around a cathode, we interpret these results as showing that stimulation of nerves supplying the skin outside the mouth evokes predominately long-latency jaw reflexes whereas shorter latency responses can be evoked by stimulating nerves supplying oral mucosa. Furthermore, long latency excitatory reflexes seem to be the most easily evoked by stimulation of the lip.
Distributions of sensory spots in the hand and two-point discrimination thresholds in the hand, face and mouth in dental students.	Densities of pressure, pain and temperature spots in the back of the hand in 551 students and two-point discrimination thresholds in the hand, the face and the mouth in 684 students were measured. The mean numbers of pressure, pain, warm and cold spots in the back of the hand were 24.7/cm2, 130.5/cm2, 3.4/cm2 and 9.1/cm2, respectively. The mean thresholds of two-point discrimination were 1.7 mm in the tip of the tongue, 2.4 mm in the upper lip, 5.5 mm in the lower jaw, 7.5 mm in the palm, 8.8 mm in the forehead, and 11.8 mm in the back of the hand. There were mostly no differences between males and females in the values of sensory spots and two-point discrimination thresholds.
Olfactory discrimination ability for homologous series of aliphatic alcohols and aldehydes.	We tested the ability of human subjects to distinguish between members of homologous series of aliphatic alcohols (ethanol to n-octanol) and aldehydes (n-butanal to n-decanal). In a forced-choice triangular test procedure 20 subjects per series were repeatedly presented with all 21 binary combinations of the seven stimuli and asked to identify the bottle containing the odd stimulus. We found (i) that as a group, the subjects performed significantly above chance level in all tasks but two with the alcohols and all tasks but four with the aldehydes, and thus were clearly able to discriminate between most of the odor pairs presented; (ii) marked interindividual differences in discrimination performance, ranging from subjects who were able to significantly distinguish between all 21 odor pairs of a series to subjects who failed to do so with the majority of tasks; and (iii) a significant negative correlation between discrimination performance and structural similarity of odorants in terms of differences in carbon chain length for both homologous series. This suggests that carbon chain length may be one of presumably several determinants of the interaction between stimulus molecule and receptor, and thus may be a molecular property affecting odor quality of aliphatic alcohols and aldehydes.
Reproducibility of BOLD-based functional MRI obtained at 4 T.	The reproducibility of activation patterns in the whole brain obtained by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments at 4 Tesla was studied with a simple finger-opposition task. Six subjects performed three runs in one session, and each run was analyzed separately with the t-test as a univariate method and Fisher's linear discriminant analysis as a multivariate method. Detrending with a first- and third-order polynomial as well as logarithmic transformation as preprocessing steps for the t-test were tested for their impact on reproducibility. Reproducibility across the whole brain was studied by using scatter plots of statistical values and calculating the correlation coefficient between pairs of activation maps. In order to compare reproducibility of "activated" voxels across runs, subjects and models, 2% of all voxels in the brain with the highest statistical values were classified as activated. The analysis of reproducible activated voxels was performed for the whole brain and within regions of interest. We found considerable variability in reproducibility across subjects, regions of interest, and analysis methods. The t-test on the linear detrended data yielded better reproducibility than Fisher's linear discriminant analysis, and therefore seems to be a robust although conservative method. Preliminary data indicate that these modeling results may be reversed by preprocessing to reduce respiratory and cardiac physiological noise effects. The reproducibility of both the position and number of activated voxels in the sensorimotor cortex was highest, while that of the supplementary motor area was much lower, with reproducibility of the cerebellum falling in between the other two areas.
Quality of vision with presbyopic contact lens correction: subjective and light sensitivity rating.	To quantify the quality of vision achieved with multifocal and bifocal contact lenses.
Confidence and accuracy of near-threshold discrimination responses.	This article reports four subliminal perception experiments using the relationship between confidence and accuracy to assess awareness. Subjects discriminated among stimuli and indicated their confidence in each discrimination response. Subjects were classified as being aware of the stimuli if their confidence judgments predicted accuracy and as being unaware if they did not. In the first experiment, confidence predicted accuracy even at stimulus durations so brief that subjects claimed to be performing at chance. This finding indicates that subjects's claims that they are "just guessing" should not be accepted as sufficient evidence that they are completely unaware of the stimuli. Experiments 2-4 tested directly for subliminal perception by comparing the minimum exposure duration needed for better than chance discrimination performance against the minimum needed for confidence to predict accuracy. The latter durations were slightly but significantly longer, suggesting that under certain circumstances people can make perceptual discriminations even though the information that was used to make those discriminations is not consciously available.
Sensory and multisensory responses in the newborn monkey superior colliculus.	Superior colliculus (SC) neurons have the ability to synthesize information from different sensory modalities, resulting in enhancements (or depressions) of their activity. This physiological capacity is, in turn, closely tied to changes in overt attentive and orientation responses. The present study shows that, in contrast to more altricial species, many deep layer SC neurons in the rhesus monkey are multisensory at birth. Such neurons can respond to stimuli from different sensory modalities, and all convergence patterns seen in the adult are represented. Nevertheless, these neurons cannot yet synthesize their multisensory inputs. Rather, they respond to combinations of cross-modal stimuli much like they respond to their individual modality-specific components. This immature property of multisensory neurons is in contrast to many of the surprisingly sophisticated modality-specific response properties of these neurons and of their modality-specific neighbors. Thus, although deep SC neurons in the newborn have longer latencies and larger receptive fields than their adult counterparts, they are already highly active and are distributed in the typical adult admixture of visual, auditory, somatosensory, and multisensory neurons. Furthermore, the receptive fields of these neurons are already ordered into well organized topographic maps, and the different receptive fields of the same multisensory neurons show a good degree of cross-modal spatial register. These data, coupled with those from cat, suggest that the capacity to synthesize multisensory information does not simply appear in SC neurons at a prescribed maturational stage but rather develops only after substantial experience with cross-modal cues.
Clinical validation of new pacing-sensing configurations for atrial automatic capture verification in pacemakers.	This study evaluated an atrial automatic capture verification scheme based on atrial evoked response (AER). Atrial pacing was between Atip and Can (Atip-Can) using different coupling capacitances (CCs). Independent pairs of sensing electrodes between Aring and Vtip (Aring-Vtip) or between Aring and a separate indifferent electrode (Aring-Indiff) were used to reduce pacing-induced afterpotentials.
Effect of strength and timing of transmembrane current pulses on isolated ventricular myocytes.	Little is known about how the amplitude and timing of transmembrane current pulses affect transmembrane potential (Vm) and action potential duration (APD) in isolated myocytes.
Excitation of a cardiac muscle fiber by extracellularly applied sinusoidal current.	The goal of this study was to examine the effect of AC currents on a cardiac fiber. The study is the second in a series of two articles devoted to the subject. The initial study demonstrated that low-strength sinusoidal currents can cause hemodynamic collapse without inducing ventricular fibrillation. The present modeling study examines possible electrophysiologic mechanisms leading to such hemodynamic collapse.
H reflex restitution and facilitation after different types of peripheral nerve injury and repair.	This study addresses the restitution of monosynaptic H reflex after nerve injuries and their role in the recovery of walking. Adult rats were submitted to sciatic crush, complete section repaired by aligned or crossed fascicular suture, or an 8-mm resection repaired by autograft or tube repair. The sciatic nerve was stimulated proximal to the injury site and the M and H waves were recorded from gastrocnemius (GCm) and plantar (PLm) muscles at monthly intervals during 3 months postoperation. Walking track tests were also carried out and the sciatic functional index (SFI) calculated to assess gait recovery. The M and H waves reappeared in all the animals at the end of the follow-up. The H/M amplitude ratio increased during the first stages of regeneration and tended to decrease to control values as muscle reinnervation progressed. However, final values of the H/M ratio for the PLm remained significantly higher in all the groups except that with a nerve crush. The walking track pattern showed an appreciable recovery only after crush injury. Final SFI values correlated positively with the M wave amplitude and negatively with the H/M ratio. In conclusion, H reflex is facilitated after peripheral nerve injury and regeneration and tends to return to normal excitability with time. Changes in the H reflex circuitry and excitability correlated positively with the deficient recovery of walking pattern after severe nerve injury.
Detection and discrimination of chromatic targets in hemianopic macaque monkeys and humans.	We measured the ability of three macaque monkeys with unilateral removal of primary visual cortex to detect 9 degrees, 200-ms targets presented at random in the upper or lower quadrants of the normal and hemianopic visual fields. The white or variously coloured target could differ from the background in both colour and luminance, or in either of them. Blue and red targets were detectable at any luminance contrast, but green and white targets were barely or not at all detectable at and near isoluminance in the hemianopic field. Blue and red targets were better detected than white targets at the same luminance difference. However, when both the target and the background were dynamically luminance-masked, detection in the hemianopic field failed at isoluminance whatever the colour. In addition, the monkeys were unable to discriminate between simultaneously presented red and green or blue and green targets in the hemianopic field when both targets had similar luminance contrast with the background. Two hemianopic patients tested on a subset of the tasks performed similarly to the monkeys. Together, the results indicate that the residual colour-opponent system that survives damage to V1 is involved in the detection of chromatic changes but cannot sustain simultaneous discrimination between pairs of colours.
Stereoacuity thresholds in the presence of a reference surface.	With isolated binocular targets, the best depth discrimination is found in the fixation plane (Blakemore, C., Journal of Physiology 211 (1970) 599). More recent studies have suggested that stereoscopic thresholds are not always a simple function of absolute disparity, but depend on the relative disparities in the stimulus. Here, we explored the effects of relative disparity in more detail, taking particular care to control for the possibility that subjects might change their binocular eye position or exploit monocular information provided by additional reference cues. Subjects judged the depth of a vertical target line presented above a comparison line in a blank window within a fronto-parallel reference surface composed of randomly positioned dots. On individual trials, the reference surface was presented at one of three disparities (-10, 0 and +10 arc min). To control for changes in binocular eye position, exposure duration was 150 ms, and experimental conditions with different disparities of the reference surface and comparison line were randomly interleaved. To control for monocular cues, changes in threshold were determined with respect to a disparity noise condition that was in all ways identical to the reference plane condition, except that the disparities of the dots were randomly assigned between 10 and +10 arc min. Stereo-thresholds were lowered by a factor of about 2 when the surface was at the same depth as the comparison line. Thresholds were also lowered when the comparison disparity was close to the same depth as the reference surface, but were often raised when the comparison disparity had the opposite disparity sign. These results provide unequivocal evidence that the fundamental sensitivity of the disparity detecting system can be influenced by relative disparity cues that are not related to the task.
Synchronization of the neural response to noisy periodic synaptic input.	The timing information contained in the response of a neuron to noisy periodic synaptic input is analyzed for the leaky integrate-and-fire neural model. We address the question of the relationship between the timing of the synaptic inputs and the output spikes. This requires an analysis of the interspike interval distribution of the output spikes, which is obtained in the gaussian approximation. The conditional output spike density in response to noisy periodic input is evaluated as a function of the initial phase of the inputs. This enables the phase transition matrix to be calculated, which relates the phase at which the output spike is generated to the initial phase of the inputs. The interspike interval histogram and the period histogram for the neural response to ongoing periodic input are then evaluated by using the leading eigenvector of this phase transition matrix. The synchronization index of the output spikes is found to increase sharply as the inputs become synchronized. This enhancement of synchronization is most pronounced for large numbers of inputs and lower frequencies of modulation and also for rates of input near the critical input rate. However, the mutual information between the input phase of the stimulus and the timing of output spikes is found to decrease at low input rates as the number of inputs increases. The results show close agreement with those obtained from numerical simulations for large numbers of inputs.
A threshold explains modulation of neural responses to opposite-contrast stereograms.	Disparity-sensitive neurons respond to contrast-inverted stereograms (aRDS) that do not evoke depth percepts. This is in conflict with the idea that such neurons are the direct correlate of depth perception. However, the output of neurons responding to aRDS may be further processed: neurons at later processing stages show weaker responses to aRDS than early stage neurons. Here, we show that such a response hierarchy emerges in a three-layered neural network. A numerical analysis demonstrates that threshold operations can largely explain the network's behavior as well as the electrophysiological data. An extension of the energy neuron model for disparity-sensitive neurons predicts increased responses to aRDS for an identifiable sub-class of cells and can thus be tested in electrophysiological experiments.
Differential changes in human pharyngoesophageal motor excitability induced by swallowing, pharyngeal stimulation, and anesthesia.	We investigated the effects of water swallowing, pharyngeal stimulation, and oropharyngeal anesthesia on corticobulbar and craniobulbar projections to human swallowing musculature. Changes in pathway excitability were measured via electromyography from swallowed intraluminal pharyngeal and esophageal electrodes to motor cerebral and trigeminal nerve magnetic stimulation. After both water swallowing and pharyngeal stimulation, pharyngoesophageal corticobulbar excitability increased (swallowing: pharynx = 59 +/- 12%, P < 0.001; esophagus = 45 +/- 20%, P < 0.05; pharyngeal stimulation: pharynx = 76 +/- 19%, P < 0.001; esophagus = 45 +/- 23%, P = 0.05), being early with swallowing but late with stimulation. By comparison, craniobulbar excitability increased early after swallowing but remained unaffected by pharyngeal stimulation. After anesthesia, both corticobulbar (pharynx =-24 +/- 10%, P < 0.05; esophagus = -28 +/- 7%, P < 0.01) and craniobulbar excitability showed a late decrease. Thus swallowing induces transient early facilitation of corticobulbar and craniobulbar projections, whereas electrical stimulation promotes delayed facilitation mainly in cortex. With removal of input, both corticobulbar and craniobulbar projections show delayed inhibition, implying a reduction in motoneuron and/or cortical activity.
Neither arm nor face warming reduces the shivering threshold in unanesthetized humans.	Hand warming and face warming, combined with inhalation of heated air, are reported to suppress shivering. However, hand or face temperature contributes only a few percent to control of shivering. Thus, it seems unlikely that manipulating hand or facial skin temperature alone would be sufficient to permit induction of therapeutic hypothermia. We tested the hypothesis that focal arm (forearm and hand) warming or lower facial warming, combined with inhalation of heated and humidified gas, only minimally reduces the shivering threshold (triggering core temperature).
Quantitative sensory testing.	Quantitative sensory testing is a reliable way of assessing large and small sensory nerve fiber function. Sensory deficits may be quantified and the data used in parametric statistical analysis in research studies and drug trials. It is an important addition to the neurophysiologic armamentarium, because conventional sensory nerve conduction tests only the large fibers. QST is a psychophysical test and lacks the objectivity of NCS. The results are subject to changes owing to distraction, boredom, mental fatigue, drowsiness, or confusion. When patients are consciously or unconsciously biased toward an abnormal QST result, no psychophysical testing can reliably distinguish these patients from those with organic disease. QST tests the integrity of the entire sensory neuraxis and is of no localizing value. Dysfunction of the peripheral nerves or central nervous system may give rise to abnormalities in QST. As is true for other neurophysiologic tests, QST results should always be interpreted in light of the patient's clinical presentation. Quantitative sensory testing has been shown to be reasonably reproducible over a period of days or weeks in normal subjects. Because longitudinal QST studies of patients in drug trials are usually performed over a period of several months to a few years, reproducibility studies on the placebo-control group should be included. For individual patients, more studies are needed to determine the maximum allowable difference between two QSTs that can be attributed to experimental error. The reproducibility of thermal thresholds may not be as good as that of vibration threshold. Different commercially available QST instruments have different specifications (thermode size, stimulus characteristics), testing protocols, algorithms, and normal values. Only QST instruments and their corresponding methodologies that have been shown to be reproducible should be used for research and patient care. The data in the literature do not allow conclusions regarding the superiority of any QST instruments. The future of QST is promising; however, many factors can affect QST results. As is true for other neurophysiologic tests, QST is susceptible to many extraneous factors and to misuse when not properly interpreted by the clinician.
Inclusion body myositis--sensory dysfunction revealed with quantitative determination of somatosensory thresholds.	In order to evaluate sensory function in inclusion body myositis (IBM), nine patients were subjected to sensibility screening and quantitative determination of somatosensory thresholds. Data were compared with results from electrophysiological examination and muscle biopsy. On sensibility screening all but one of the IBM patients had abnormal findings in hands and/or feet mostly affecting thermal sensibility. Vibratory thresholds were abnormal in five and thermal thresholds in four of the patients. Mean vibratory thresholds were significantly (P < 0.05) higher in the IBM patients when compared with the controls. Significantly increased heat pain thresholds were found in hands and feet when compared with the controls while thermal thresholds were normal. Nerve conduction velocities were decreased in three patients, EMG showed both myopathic and neuropathic abnormalities in six patients. Eight patients had neuropathic abnormalities on muscle biopsy. The sensory dysfunction found suggests an affection of peripheral nerves in IBM mainly affecting large diameter myelinated nerve fibres corroborating earlier findings of a peripheral neuropathy in IBM.
Reliability and validity of ankle proprioceptive measures.	To determine the reliability and validity of ankle proprioceptive measures.
A study of the relative responsiveness of five sensibility tests for assessment of recovery after median nerve injury and repair.	A longitudinal dynamic cohort study was conducted on patients with median nerve injuries to evaluate the relative responsiveness of five sensibility tests: touch threshold using the WEST (monofilaments), static two-point discrimination, locognosia, a pick-up test and an object recognition test. Repeated assessments were performed starting at 6 months after surgery. In order to compare the relative responsiveness of each test, effect size and the standard response mean were calculated for sensibility changes occurring between 6 and 18 months after repair. Large effect sizes (>0.8) and standard response means (>0.8) were obtained for the WEST, locognosia, pick-up and object recognition tests. Two-point discrimination was hardly measurable at any time point and exhibited strong flooring effects. Further analysis of all time points was undertaken to assess the strength of the monotonic relationship between test scores and time elapsed since surgery. Comparison of monotonicity between the five tests indicated that the WEST performed best, whereas two-point discrimination performed worst. These results suggest that the monofilament test (WEST), locognosia test, Moberg pick-up test and tactile gnosis test capture sensibility changes over time well and should be considered for inclusion in the outcome assessment of patients with median nerve injury.
Normal intracortical excitability in developmental stuttering.	Persistent developmental stuttering (PDS) shares clinical features with task-specific dystonias. In these dystonias, intracortical inhibition is abnormally weak. We therefore sought to determine intracortical inhibition and intracortical facilitation in PDS. In 18 subjects with PDS since childhood (mean age, 39.4 [SD 13.0] years) and 18 speech-fluent controls (43.6 [14.3] years), we investigated resting and active motor thresholds as well as intracortical inhibition and facilitation of the optimal representation of the abductor digiti minimi of the dominant hand using transcranial magnetic stimulation. In PDS, the resting and active motor thresholds were increased, whereas intracortical inhibition and facilitation were normal. Normal intracortical excitability makes a pathophysiological analogy between focal dystonia and PDS less likely. The enhanced motor threshold suggests reduced motor cortical neuronal membrane excitability in PDS.
Master scaling of perceived intensity of touch, cold and warmth.	A new approach is presented for scaling perceived intensity of touch, cold and warmth based on magnitude estimation. In this method named master scaling thenar is utilized as common reference area for scaling and calibrating perceived intensity. The master scaling is particularly well suited for clinical applications in which the stimulation in pain-affected body areas creates a complex perception (e.g., paradoxical heat for cold stimulation) and/or aberrant psychophysical functions for perceived intensity. The results from three different experiments showed that: (a) All patients and healthy subjects were able to scale adequately the perceived intensity of touch, cold, and warmth at unaffected body areas. (b) Thenar stimulations were shown to be adequate common references in the joint scaling of perceived intensity of other body areas in pain patients as well as healthy persons. (c) Individual thenar psychophysical functions can be used for screening patients and healthy persons with regard to their ability to scale perceived intensity of touch, cold and warmth. (d) Master scaled perceived intensity scales can be used for determining if various pain-unaffected body areas are normal or abnormal in patients and in healthy persons. (e) The interindividual variation in perceived intensity is considerably reduced after master scaling and approaches that of intraindividual variation as found in olfaction and hearing. Finally, empirically based thenar Master Functions of perceived intensity for touch, cold and warmth are proposed to be used in future sensory testing of patients, as well as of healthy persons.
Short term light deprivation increases tactile spatial acuity in humans.	The effect of short-term light deprivation on tactile spatial acuity was evaluated by asking 28 adult humans to perform a grating orientation task. The 14 subjects who were kept for 90 minutes in complete dark showed, immediately after deprivation, a reversible improvement of tactile spatial acuity. No acuity change was observed in the 14 nondeprived subjects. Results indicate that even a short-term visual deprivation may disclose highly dynamic plastic interactions between visual and tactile systems.
Olfactory function in workers exposed to styrene in the reinforced-plastics industry.	Impairment of olfactory function in humans has been associated with occupational exposure to volatile chemicals. To investigate whether exposure to styrene was associated with olfactory impairment, olfactory function was examined in workers with a minimum of 4 years exposure to styrene in the reinforced-plastics industry (current mean exposure: 26 ppm, range: 10-60 ppm; historic mean dose: 156 ppm-years, range: 13.8-328 ppm-years) and in a group of age- and gender-matched, unexposed controls.
Exposure assessment for study of olfactory function in workers exposed to styrene in the reinforced-plastics industry.	This study was undertaken in conjunction with an evaluation of the olfactory function of 52 persons exposed to styrene vapors to provide quantitative styrene exposure histories of each subject for use in the interpretation of the results of olfactory function testing.
Intracortical inhibition and facilitation are impaired in patients with early Parkinson's disease: a paired TMS study.	Twelve patients with early Parkinson's disease (PD), none of whom had received any previous L-DOPA treatment, but using other antiparkinsonian drugs, were studied using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Contralateral and ipsilateral hemispheres were examined, with a focus on the more pronounced parkinsonian symptoms. The conditioning-test TMS paradigm (with a subthreshold conditioning stimulus and a suprathreshold test stimulus) was used through a stimulating round coil. Paired stimuli of short (3, 5 and 7 ms), medium (10, 15 and 20 ms), and long (100, 150, 200 and 250 ms) interstimulus intervals (ISI) were pseudo-randomly mixed with a single stimulus. The first interosseus muscle was used for the motor-evoked potential recordings. Ten healthy subjects (age and sex matched) were studied in the same manner to obtain normative data. When both groups were compared, the significant difference (reduction of the intracortical inhibition and facilitation) between the PD patients and the control group was found at the short and the medium ISI (3, 5, 7, 10, 15 and 20 ms) in both hemispheres (P < 0.05). The longer ISI produced non-significant differences between the two groups in intracortical excitability. There was a non-significant difference in the motor threshold. In conclusion, it can be supposed that both intracortical inhibition and facilitation are impaired in patients with early PD using other antiparkinsonian treatments than L-DOPA or dopamine agonists.
Cold transduction in rat trigeminal ganglia neurons in vitro.	Three sub-populations of sensory neurons may be distinguished based on responses to a decrease in temperature: one has a relatively low threshold for activation (cool fibers), a second has a high threshold for activation (cold nociceptors), and the third is unresponsive to a decrease in temperature. Results from several recent studies suggest that the ability to detect a decrease in temperature reflects an intrinsic property(ies) of sensory neurons and therefore may be characterized via the study of the sensory neuron cell body in vitro. However, while three unique ionic mechanisms of cold transduction have recently been identified (i.e. activation of the transient receptor potential channel M8 [TRPM8] or an epithelial Na(+) channel [ENaC] or inhibition of two pore K(+) channel [TREK-1]), the possibility that these "mechanisms" may be differentially distributed among sensory neurons in a manner consistent with predictions based on in vivo observations has not been investigated. To investigate this possibility, we have characterized the influence of cooling on isolated trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons from adult rats in vitro with Ca(2+) microfluorimetry in combination with a series of pharmacological interventions. We report that neurons responded to a decrease in temperature from approximately 34 degrees C to approximately 12 degrees C in one of two ways: 1) with a low threshold (30.1+/-0.6 degrees C) for activation demonstrating an increase in fluorescence with a minimal decrease in bath temperature (12.3%); 2) with a high threshold for activation (21.5+/-0.6 degrees C), demonstrating an increase in fluorescence only after a substantial decrease in bath temperature (13.3%); 74.4% did not respond to a decrease in temperature with an increase [Ca(2+)](i). These responses also were distinguishable on the basis of their rate of activation and degree of desensitization in response to prolonged application of a cold stimulus: low threshold responses were associated with a rapid (tau=12.0+/-5.7 s) increase in [Ca(2+)](i) and a time constant of desensitization of 85.8+/-20.7 s while high threshold responses were associated with a slow (tau=38.1+/-8.2 s) increase in [Ca(2+)](i) and demonstrated little desensitization over 4 min of stimulation. We refer to low threshold and high threshold cold responsive TG neurons as LT(cool) and HT(cool) neurons, respectively. LT(cool) and HT(cool) neurons were distributed among two distinct subpopulations of TG neurons distinguishable on the basis of cell body size and isolectin B4 staining. Both ENaC and TRPM8 appear to contribute to cold transduction, but neither is sufficient to account for all aspects of cold transduction in either population of TG neurons. Furthermore, inhibition of Ba(2+) and/or Gd(3+) sensitive two-pore K(+) channels (i.e. TREK-1 and TRAAK) was insufficient to account for cold transduction in HT(cool) or LT(cool) neurons. Our results suggest that cold transduction in sensory neurons is a complex process involving the activation and inhibition of several different ion channels. In addition, there appear to be both similarities and differences between mechanisms underlying cold transduction in LT(cool) and HT(cool) neurons. Identification of specific mechanisms underlying cold transduction in LT(cool) and HT(cool) neurons may enable the development of novel therapeutic interventions for the treatment of pathological conditions such as cold allodynia.
Circadian rhythm in olfactory response in the antennae controlled by the optic lobe in the cockroach.	The olfactory response in antennae of the cockroach, Leucophaea maderae, was investigated by measuring electroantennograms (EAGs) in restrained animals. The amplitude of the EAG response to pulses of ethyl acetate, octanol, or fenchone, exhibited a robust, light entrained, circadian rhythm that persisted at least 14 days in constant darkness. Dilution-response curves measured at the peak and trough of the rhythm indicated there was a 10-fold change in sensitivity. The EAG rhythm was abolished by severing the optic tracts, while entrainment was abolished by ablation of the compound eyes. The results indicate that the circadian system modulates olfactory sensitivity in the antennae and that the rhythm is driven by a circadian pacemaker in the optic lobes that is entrained by photoreceptors in the compound eyes.
Electrophysiology of sensory and sensorimotor processing in mice under general anesthesia.	Like many other complex biological phenomena, sensory processing is starting to be studied at the level of the gene. Whereas the mouse is the standard organism for molecular neurobiology, somatosensation and pain are mainly investigated in the rat. The in-vitro electrophysiological technique is well established in mice. The effect of manipulations of the mouse genome on neuronal systems and networks has to be investigated under in-vivo conditions. Thus, the step from the rat to the smaller mouse seems to be important in terms of progress in molecular neurobiology. So far, there is no published study of sensory processing by electrophysiological means in mice under controlled general anesthesia. In this paper we describe a technique for electrophysiological recordings of sensory and sensorimotor processing in anesthetized mice. The mouse is anesthetized by continuous administration of the short-acting general anesthetic methohexital sodium salt via the jugular vein and artificially ventilated via a tracheotomy. The electrocardiogram and the carotid artery blood pressure are monitored. The sensorimotor jaw-opening reflex and the hindpaw withdrawal reflex are elicited by electric stimulation of the tongue and the sole of the hindpaw, respectively. The jaw-opening reflex is inhibited by deep brain stimulation of the rostral ventromedial medulla. On- and off-cells of the rostral ventromedial medulla and sensory neurons of the spinal trigeminal nucleus are extracellularly recorded by tungsten electrodes. General anesthesia can be reliably induced, maintained and sufficiently controlled in mice. Under this condition, studies can be performed on sensory processing in mice.
Blue-on-yellow perimetry versus achromatic perimetry in type 1 diabetes patients without retinopathy.	In this study, we compared the blue-on-yellow perimetric parameters with conventional automated static threshold perimetric parameters in the detection of psychophysical abnormality in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM) without diabetic retinopathy. Forty-three patients with type 1 DM without diabetic retinopathy were included this study. Thirty subjects served as age-matched control group. Blue-on yellow perimetry was performed and the results compared to white-on-white perimetry. The values of mean deviation by blue-on-yellow perimetry in the diabetic group were significantly higher than in the control group (P=0.0001). The indices of short fluctuation, pattern standard deviation, corrected pattern standard deviation and foveal sensitivity which all relate to localized depression in sensitivity were similar in both groups. The achromatic perimetric parameters were not different between the groups. We conclude that the short-wavelength-sensitive cones are vulnerable to damage from hyperglycemia and this influence can be detected early by blue-on-yellow perimetry in diabetic patients without retinopathy.
Stochastic resonance in noisy threshold neurons.	Stochastic resonance occurs when noise improves how a nonlinear system performs. This paper presents two general stochastic-resonance theorems for threshold neurons that process noisy Bernoulli input sequences. The performance measure is Shannon mutual information. The theorems show that small amounts of independent additive noise can increase the mutual information of threshold neurons if the neurons detect subthreshold signals. The first theorem shows that this stochastic-resonance effect holds for all finite-variance noise probability density functions that obey a simple mean constraint that the user can control. A corollary shows that this stochastic-resonance effect occurs for the important family of (right-sided) gamma noise. The second theorem shows that this effect holds for all infinite-variance noise types in the broad family of stable distributions. Stable bell curves can model extremely impulsive noise environments. So the second theorem shows that this stochastic-resonance effect is robust against violent fluctuations in the additive noise process.
Tactile spatial acuity in elderly persons: assessment with grating domes and relationship with manual dexterity.	In this study, we sought to better define the limit of spatial resolution at the fingertips of elderly participants (n = 30, age 60-95 years) using an extended set of JVP grating domes, incorporating four new grating dimensions (2.5-, 3.5-, 4.0- and 4.5-mm width). A secondary aim was to examine whether deficits in tactile acuity could be related to hand dysfunction in older adults. Spatial resolution thresholds were determined by the finest grating whose orientation (dominant index finger) could be reported reliably. Manual dexterity was assessed with the Grooved Pegboard Test (GPT). The extended set of domes improved threshold measurements in a majority of participants (21/30). Still, accurate threshold estimates could not be obtained in one third of the participants, mostly in the older age group (8/9, 74-95 years). Grating resolution thresholds at the index finger were strongly correlated (r = 0.66, p<0.01) with dexterity scores derived from the GPT. From these results, we conclude that the 2.5- and 3.5-mm grating domes are suitable additions when assessing spatial acuity at the fingertips of older subjects between 60 and 70 years of age (mean threshold, 2.7+/-0.6 mm). For the older ones, the 4.0- and 4.5-mm domes can improve threshold measurements but interpretation of values can be complicated by the presence of undiagnosed pathologies (e.g., diffuse polyneuropathy) as people advance in age. The strong relationship between grating resolution thresholds and dexterity scores indicates that an impaired spatial acuity at the fingertips may translate into great difficulties in tasks requiring fine manipulations. These findings have important implications for the assessment of hand function in older adults.
Effects of temperature on the subjective magnitude of vibration.	Absolute magnitude estimation (AME) was used to determine the effects of skin temperature on the subjective magnitude of vibration delivered to the thenar eminence of the right hand. Measurements were made at three frequencies chosen to selectively activate cutaneous mechanoreceptor channels, namely NP I and NP III (Meissner and Merkel cell-neurite receptors, respectively) at 15 Hz, Pacinian (250 Hz, 400 Hz) and NP III (Ruffini endings) at 400 Hz. Skin temperatures at 15, 20 and 40 degrees C were tested at 11 suprathreshold displacement levels. It was concluded that the subjective magnitude of vibration is influenced by temperature in the Pacinian channel, but in the NP I and NP III channels the temperature of the skin did not have an effect upon judgements of subjective magnitude. This is consistent with earlier work by Verrillo and Bolanowski (J Acoust Soc Am 80: 528-532, 1986) and Bolanowski et al. (J Acoust Soc Am 84: 1680-1694, 1988); both studies show only modest effects of temperature at threshold at frequencies below approximately 40 Hz.
Distribution of the intensity-characteristic parameters of cat rapidly adapting mechanoreceptive fibers.	Modeling population responses of nerve fibers requires statistical characterization of fiber-response properties. The rate/intensity characteristics of cat rapidly adapting (RA) fibers were fitted by four-parameter, piece-wise linear functions using nonlinear regression (n = 14; R2 > 0.958). The parameters were tested against the null hypothesis that they are log normally distributed. The test fail to reject this hypothesis (Kolmogorov-Smirnov p>0.477). However, a significant statistical difference was found between the specific lognormal distributions obtained from monkey (Johnson, J Neurophysiol 37: 48-72, 1974) and cat for all four parameters (Kolmogorov-Smirnov, p<0.0075, p<0.05, p<0.0001, p<0.00007). Although the stimulus contactor size was not the same in monkey and cat studies, the differences between monkey and cat fibers are attributed to anatomical differences in the glabrous sin of both species. Modeling studies suggest that the absolute firing thresholds of RA fibers have a right-skewed distribution because of the anatomical constraints present in both species' skin. Meissner corpuscles, which are the sensory end-organs of RA fibers, are likely to be found deeper in the skin within dermal papilla, therefore, the thresholds can be elevated. However, the thresholds are bounded at lower end, probably due to the epidermal junction that acts as a superficial mechanical barrier for these corpuscles.
A paradigm for measuring the olfactory event-related potential in the clinic.	Recent research on the olfactory event-related potential (OERP) using inter-stimulus intervals (ISIs) of 90 s and shorter has revealed a marked decrease in component amplitude after the first trial, with a leveling off for the remaining trials. Studies manipulating the ISI in olfactory and other modalities demonstrate an association between higher amplitudes and longer ISIs, suggesting that habituation occurs at short time intervals between each stimulus presentation. The present study attempted to reduce the effects of habituation by using a 10-min ISI and fewer trials. OERPs were recorded monopolarly at the Fz, Cz and Pz electrode sites in ten subjects (five males, five females), for three trials using a 10-min ISI. Results demonstrated no significant reduction in component amplitudes across trials and no significant difference in latencies over trials, indicating no habituation effect at this ISI. These results indicate that with a 10-min ISI and three trial recordings, a complete reduction in habituation can be achieved. These findings may prove to be clinically useful to physicians who can implement this technique to assess olfactory functioning in cognitively impaired individuals or to assess malingering.
Light-evoked excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs to ON and OFF alpha ganglion cells in the mouse retina.	Bipolar cell and amacrine cell synaptic inputs to alpha ganglion cells (alphaGCs) in dark-adapted mouse retinas were studied by recording the light-evoked excitatory cation current (DeltaIC) and inhibitory chloride current (DeltaICl) under voltage-clamp conditions, and the cell morphology was revealed by Lucifer yellow fluorescence with a confocal microscope. Three types of alphaGCs were identified. (1) ONalphaGCs exhibits no spike activity in darkness, increased spikes in light, sustained inward DeltaIC, sustained outward DeltaICl of varying amplitude, and large soma (20-25 microm in diameter) with alpha-cell-like dendritic field approximately 180-350 microm stratifying near 70% of the inner plexiform layer (IPL) depth. (2) Transient OFFalphaGCs (tOFFalphaGCs) exhibit no spike activity in darkness, transient increased spikes at light offset, small sustained outward DeltaIC in light, a large transient inward DeltaIC at light offset, a sustained outward DeltaICl, and a morphology similar to the ONalphaGCs except for that their dendrites stratified near 30% of the IPL depth. (3) Sustained OFFalphaGCs exhibit maintained spike activity of 5-10 Hz in darkness, sustained decrease of spikes in light, sustained outward DeltaIC, sustained outward DeltaICl, and a morphology similar to the tOFFalphaGCs. By comparing the response thresholds and dynamic ranges of alphaGCs with those of the preganglion cells, our data suggest that the light responses of each type of alphaGCs are mediated by different sets of bipolar cells and amacrine cells. This detailed physiological analysis complements the existing anatomical results and provides new insights on the functional roles of individual synapses in the inner mammalian retina.
Clinical and physiological findings, and possible aetiological factors of rectal hyposensitivity.	Rectal hyposensitivity (RH) relates to insensitivity of the rectum on anorectal physiological investigation and appears common in functional bowel disorders. The clinical significance of this physiological abnormality is unclear.
Sensory and autonomic function in the hands of patients with non-specific arm pain (NSAP) and asymptomatic office workers.	Chronic pain in the upper limb associated with repetitive movements of the arm and hand is often seen in patients in the absence of specific pathology such as epicondylitis, carpal tunnel syndrome and tenosynovitis. This condition has been given many names and will be referred to here as non-specific arm pain (NSAP). Previous work has shown elevated vibration thresholds and reduced flare suggesting a neuropathic cause for this condition. In order to examine this further the present study has assessed functions that involve both large sensory nerve fibres (vibration) and small dorsal root fibres (flare) and sympathetic fibres (vasoconstriction). NSAP patients and also a group of office workers who intensively used display screen equipment but who did not have NSAP were also studied along with an age-matched control group. In the median innervated area of the hand we measured flare responses to iontophoresis of histamine (a sensory C-fibre effect), and sympathetic vasoconstrictor responses to ice stimulation over C7. To tie in with previous studies, vibration threshold over areas of the hand innervated by the median, ulnar and radial nerves was also evaluated. All measures were carried out over both hands in each subject. Significant differences from controls were found on all three measures for the NSAP patient group and on two measures for the office workers. Flare area was reduced by 33% in the patients and by 30% in the office workers. Reflex vasoconstriction was reduced by 20% in the patient group but was not altered in office worker group. Over the median innervated area on the hand, vibration threshold was elevated by 47% in the patients and by 21% in the office workers. These results confirm previous findings showing reduced function associated with both small and large sensory fibres in the NSAP patients and additionally, for the first time, demonstrate a functional change related to sympathetic fibres. Office workers demonstrate a similar but smaller trend for reduced nerve function associated with both small and large sensory fibre function, but had no change in the sympathetic reflex.
The differential sensitivity to a neurotigenic exposure of rat strains differing by the threshold of nervous system excitability]	The influence was studied of 15-days stressing on the appearance of stable neurosis-like state of rats lines, selected by the excitability of the nervous system. Unconditioned and conditioned components of behaviour were tested: pain sensitivity, behaviour in the open field, level of "anxiety", passive and active defensive avoidance. Differential reactivity was shown of the rats lines to prolonged stressing, depending on the genetically determined level of the nervous system functional state. Interlinear differences in dynamics of the development of neurosis-like state were established.
Analgesia induced by electroacupuncture of different frequencies is mediated by different types of opioid receptors: another cross-tolerance study.	The cross-tolerance technique was used to analyze the receptor mechanisms of analgesia induced by electroacupuncture (EA) of 2 Hz, 100 Hz, or 2-15 Hz. (1) Rats were given EA stimulation of 2 Hz, 100 Hz and 2-15 Hz for 30 min with 30 min intervals successively. The percentage increase in tail-flick latency (TFL) was taken to indicate the intensity of EA analgesia. Rats made tolerant to repeated intrathecal injection of the mu-opioid agonist ohmefentanyl (OMF, 15 pmol, Q2h x 5) or the delta-opioid agonist DPDPE (10 nmol, Q2h x 5) showed a cross tolerance to both 2 Hz- and 2-15 Hz-, but not to 100 Hz-EA analgesia; and rats made tolerant to kappa-opioid agonist dynorphin-(1-13) (5 nmol, Q2h x 5) showed a cross-tolerance to 100 Hz- and 2-15 Hz-, but not to 2 Hz-EA analgesia; (2) Rats made tolerant to 2-15 Hz EA showed cross-tolerance to either 2 Hz- or 100 Hz-EA analgesia; (3) Rats made tolerant to either 2 Hz- or 100 Hz-EA were still reactive to 2-15 Hz-EA. The results indicate that 2 Hz-EA analgesia is mediated by mu- and delta-receptors, 100 Hz-EA analgesia by kappa-receptor, and 2-15 Hz-EA analgesia by combined action of mu-, delta- and kappa-receptors in the spinal cord of the rats.
Sensory retraining of the hand using gnosis rings]	Sensory reeducation is very important. Many methods are used but it is difficult to assess their efficiency. Besides the routine methods we are using the gnostic rings which have on their periphery 5 symbols: a letter = A, a number = 3, a geometrical figure = a circle, a rough surface and a smooth convex surface. The symbols of the rings are in 3 different sizes (1.5 - 1 and 0.5 cm). The gnostic rings have 3 advantages: 1) they allow a precise evaluation in percentage. 2) they require an important brain effort, 3) they may be kept in the pocket and used several times during the day.
Customized biofeedback therapy improves results in fecal incontinence.	Biofeedback therapy has been extensively used and accepted in fecal incontinence, but reports of its efficiency vary. We evaluated feedback therapy efficiency when (a) selecting the patient's subject of the therapy, and (b) customizing the therapy protocol used for each patient.
Spike generator limits efficiency of information transfer in a retinal ganglion cell.	The quality of the signal a retinal ganglion cell transmits to the brain is important for preception because it sets the minimum detectable stimulus. The ganglion cell converts graded potentials into a spike train with a selective filter but in the process adds noise. To explore how efficiently information is transferred to spikes, we measured contrast detection threshold and increment threshold from graded potential and spike responses of brisk-transient ganglion cells. Intracellular responses to a spot flashed over the receptive field center of the cell were recorded in an intact mammalian retina maintained in vitro at 37 degrees C. Thresholds were measured in a single-interval forced-choice procedure with an ideal observer. The graded potential gave a detection threshold of 1.5% contrast, whereas spikes gave 3.8%. The graded potential also gave increment thresholds approximately twofold lower and carried approximately 60% more gray levels. Increment threshold "dipped" below the detection threshold at a low contrast (<5%) but increased rapidly at higher contrasts. The magnitude of the "dipper" for both graded potential and spikes could be predicted from a threshold nonlinearity in the responses. Depolarization of the cell by current injection reduced the detection threshold for spikes but also reduced the range of contrasts they can transmit. This suggests that contrast sensitivity and dynamic range are related in an essential trade-off.
Activation of the amygdala and anterior cingulate during nonconscious processing of sad versus happy faces.	Previous functional neuroimaging studies have demonstrated that the amygdala activates in response to fearful faces presented below the threshold of conscious visual perception. Using a backward masking procedure similar to that of previous studies, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study the amygdala and anterior cingulate gyrus during preattentive presentations of sad and happy facial affect. Twelve healthy adult females underwent blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) fMRI while viewing sad and happy faces, each presented for 20 ms and "masked" immediately by a neutral face for 100 ms. Masked happy faces were associated with significant bilateral activation within the anterior cingulate gyrus and amygdala, whereas masked sadness yielded only limited activation within the left anterior cingulate gyrus. In a direct comparison, masked happy faces yielded significantly greater activation in the anterior cingulate and amygdala relative to identically masked sad faces. Conjunction analysis showed that masked affect perception, regardless of emotional valence, was associated with greater activation within the left amygdala and left anterior cingulate. Findings suggest that the amygdala and anterior cingulate are important components of a network involved in detecting and discriminating affective information presented below the normal threshold of conscious visual perception.
Differential neural responses to overt and covert presentations of facial expressions of fear and disgust.	There is debate in cognitive neuroscience whether conscious versus unconscious processing represents a categorical or a quantitative distinction. The purpose of the study was to explore this matter using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We first established objective thresholds of the critical temporal parameters for overt and covert presentations of fear and disgust. Next we applied these stimulus parameters in an fMRI experiment to determine whether non-consciously perceived (covert) facial expressions of fear and disgust show the same double dissociation (amygdala response to fear, insula to disgust) observed with consciously perceived (overt) stimuli. A backward masking paradigm was used. In the psychophysics experiment, the following parameters were established: 30-ms target duration for the covert condition, and 170-ms target duration for the overt condition. Results of the block-design fMRI study indicated substantial differences underlying the perception of fearful and disgusted facial expressions, with significant effects of both emotion and target duration. Findings for the overt condition (170 ms) confirm previous evidence of amygdala activation to fearful faces, and insula activation to disgusted faces, and a double dissociation between these two emotions. In the covert condition (30 ms), the amygdala was not activated to fear, nor was the insula activated to disgust. Overall, findings demonstrate significant differences between the neural responses to fear and to disgust, and between the covert presentations of these two emotions. These results therefore suggest distinct neural correlates of conscious and unconscious emotion perception.
Human MT+ mediates perceptual filling-in during apparent motion.	During apparent motion, spatially distinct items presented in alternation cause the perception of a visual stimulus smoothly traversing the intervening space where no physical stimulus exists. We used fMRI to determine whether the perceptual 'filling-in' that underlies this phenomenon has an early or late cortical locus. Subjects viewed a display comprised of concentric rings that elicited apparent motion (two concentric rings presented in alternation), flicker (the same rings presented simultaneously), or real motion. We independently localized the cortical regions corresponding to the path of apparent motion in early visual areas (V1, V2, VP, V3, V4v, V3A), as well as the human motion processing complex (MT+). Cortical activity in the path of apparent motion in early visual areas was similar in amplitude during both apparent motion and flicker. In contrast, cortical activity in MT+ was higher in amplitude during apparent motion than during flicker, but was lower in amplitude than during real motion. In addition, we observed overlap in the cortical loci of MT+ and the lateral occipital complex (LOC), a region involved in shape and object processing. This overlap suggests that these regions could directly interact and thereby support perceived object continuity during apparent motion.
Modelling divergence in luminance and chromatic detection performance across measured divergence in surfperch (Embiotocidae) habitats.	This study predicts target detection performance in species-specific habitats for six surfperch (Embiotocidae) living in optically variable California kelp forests. Using species-specific measurements of habitat irradiance and photoreceptor absorbance in a simple dichromatic model for luminance and chromatic detection, the estimated performance of species' measured photopigments was compared to the theoretical maximum for each habitat. Modelling results suggest that changes in peak photoreceptor absorbance (lambda(max)), photoreceptor optical density, and photic environment may affect detection performance. Estimated performances for luminance detection were consistently high, while chromatic detection varied by habitat and demonstrated substantial improvements with increasing optical density differences between cone classes.
Compromised late-stage motion processing in schizophrenia.	Visual motion processing is compromised in schizophrenia, as shown in deficient velocity discrimination. Processing of motion signals comprises progressive stages along the geniculate-striate-extrastriate-cortex pathway. Based on neurophysiologic and brain lesion studies, a velocity discrimination deficit can implicate early-stage motion processing if it is contrast-dependent or late-stage motion processing if it is contrast-independent.
Comparison of detection threshold values determined using glass sniff bottles and plastic squeeze bottles.	Olfactory threshold measures are influenced by such factors as odorant species, diluent type, psychophysical paradigm, and stimulus-presentation procedure. In this study, we compared phenyl ethyl alcohol odor-detection thresholds obtained using 120-ml glass sniff bottles to those obtained using 120-ml plastic squeeze bottles. Although these presentation media are commonly employed in published studies, there has never been a formal comparison of values obtained using them. 10 male and 10 female subjects were tested on two threshold test sessions, one for each type of bottle. Order of sessions was systematically counterbalanced and completed on the same day for a given subject, with a minimum of 30 min. elapsing between sessions. A seven-reversal, single-staircase threshold procedure was employed. Although the threshold values were similar for the two procedures, slightly lower thresholds were obtained using the glass sniff bottles [respective M (SEM) log vol/vol values = -6.61 (.20) and -6.13 (.24)]. These data suggest that, while threshold values using these two presentation procedures can be roughly compared across studies, accurate comparisons may require a slight mathematical adjustment.
Profound contrast adaptation early in the visual pathway.	Prior exposure to a moving grating of high contrast led to a substantial and persistent reduction in the contrast sensitivity of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of macaque. This slow contrast adaptation was potent in all magnocellular (M) cells but essentially absent in parvocellular (P) cells and neurons that received input from S cones. Simultaneous recordings of M cells and the potentials of ganglion cells driving them showed that adaptation originated in ganglion cells. As expected from the spatiotemporal tuning of M cells, adaptation was broadly tuned for spatial frequency and lacked orientation selectivity. Adaptation could be induced by high temporal frequencies to which cortical neurons do not respond, but not by low temporal frequencies that can strongly adapt cortical neurons. Our observations confirm that contrast adaptation occurs at multiple levels in the visual system, and they provide a new way to reveal the function and perceptual significance of the M pathway.
The effect of spatial cues on visual sensitivity.	Although once doubted, a consensus has emerged from the literature that visual sensitivity can be heightened locally with an appropriate precue. Experiments with partially and totally valid precues suggest an increase in sensitivity of less than one-half log unit at the precued position, as compared with other positions. New experiments with non-informative precues demonstrate that most of this small enhancement is not due to focal attention. Sensitivity can be heightened at eight positions simultaneously, just as much as when a single position is precued. Sensitivities produced by single, totally valid precues and single, non-informative precues were similar. Thus there seems to be no capacity limit for the effect of precues on visual sensitivity.
"Pop-out" of targets modulated in luminance or colour: the effect of intrinsic and extrinsic uncertainty.	Targets defined by attributes such as colour or brightness are said to "pop-out" from a cluttered scene, with little or no dependency on the size of the set to be searched, while search for other attributes can depend strongly on set-size. We measured contrast thresholds for increments and decrements in luminance or colour and show that they increase strongly with set-size (as previously observed for orientation). However, in some conditions, where the potential distractors were not salient visual targets, there was no dependency of set-size at all ("pop-out"). All the data can be modelled by assuming two main sources of uncertainty: the intrinsic uncertainty due to the number of detectors monitored during a specific task and the extrinsic uncertainty introduced by increasing the number of items displayed. The strength of the effect is well explained by a simple signal detection theory "signed-max" model suited for two-tailed tasks [Journal of Vision 2 (8), 559]. The results suggest that "pop-out" is not peculiar to luminance or colour, but may occur in conditions when the intrinsic uncertainty is so high as to saturate the effects of further uncertainty sources.
The spatial window of the perceptual template and endogenous attention.	One primary function of spatial attention is to exclude external noise [e.g., Psychol. Sci. 11(2) (2000) 139], especially in the region of the target stimulus [J. Vis. 2(4) (2000) 312]. What is not known is the spatial profile of external noise exclusion in the vicinity of the target and how this depends upon attention. The spatial region around an oriented Gabor target was segmented into four concentric rings (R1-R4). Psychometric functions were measured for orientation discrimination with external random Gaussian noise in all combinations of rings (e.g., R1 alone; R1+R2; etc.). Regions with larger impact on performance are weighted more heavily in the perceptual template. In an orientation discrimination task in periphery the effective noise regions aligned closely with the high contrast regions of the target Gabor, with attention reducing the effective noise across the spatial template. The combined effects of external noise regions were well-modeled by a (non-linear) perceptual template model (PTM) [Vis. Res. 38(9) (1998) 1183]. In another experiment in attended fovea, the results were similar to those in periphery, but exhibited additional ability to selectively weight clear spatial regions.
Temporal tuning characteristics of the perceptual template and endogenous cuing of spatial attention.	External noise presented in temporal contiguity with a target impairs perceptual performance, reflecting the temporal tuning of the perceptual template. Deriving the temporal characteristics of the perceptual template, however, requires an observer model that segregates the impact of non-linearities and intrinsic inefficiencies of the observer in order to account for the impact of external noise in various temporal configurations. In Experiment 1, we showed that the perceptual template model successfully accounts for temporal masking functions in foveal Gabor orientation identification masked by external noise with a wide range of temporal configurations, and estimates the temporal characteristics of the perceptual template. In Experiment 2, we extended the paradigm and the model to compare the temporal tuning characteristics of the perceptual template in central pre- and simultaneous cuing of endogenous spatial attention in a Gabor orientation identification task in visual periphery. We found that endogenous spatial attention excludes external noise by both sharpening the temporal window of the perceptual template and (mostly) reducing the impact of external noise uniformly across the entire temporal window.
Dynamic allocation of visual attention during the execution of sequences of saccades.	Laboratory tasks used to study vision and attention usually require steady fixation, while natural visual processing occurs during the brief pauses between successive saccades. We studied vision and attentional allocation during intersaccadic pauses as subjects made repetitive sequences of saccades. Displays contained six outline squares located along the perimeter of an imaginary circle (diam 4 degrees). Saccades were made in sequence to every other square. The visual task was to identify the orientation (2AFC) of a Gabor test stimulus that appeared briefly (91 ms) along with superimposed noise in one of the squares during a randomly selected intersaccadic pause. Gabor location was cued in advance and noise frames were presented in all squares. Contrast thresholds during intersaccadic pauses were as much as 2-3 times higher than during steady fixation with comparable cueing. Thresholds improved over time during the intersaccadic pause, and the lowest extrafoveal thresholds (statistically indistinguishable from those at the same locations during steady fixation) were found for the location that was to be the target of the next saccade in the sequence. These results show that vision during intersaccadic pauses varies over space and time due to changes in the distribution of attention, as well as to visual suppression that may be related to the execution of the saccades themselves. Generation of sequences of accurate saccades encouraged a strategy of attentional allocation in which resources were dedicated primarily to the goal of the next saccade, leaving little attention for processing objects at other locations.
Dissociating detection from localization of tactile stimuli.	In what they described as "a tactile analog of blindsight," Paillard et al. (1983) reported the case of a woman with damage to the left parietal cortex who was profoundly impaired in detecting tactile stimuli but could nonetheless correctly identify their location (also Rossetti et al., 1995). This stands in direct contrast to reports of neurological patients who were unable to accurately locate stimuli that they could successfully detect (Head and Holmes, 1911; Halligan et al., 1995; Rapp et al., 2002). The combination of these findings suggests that detecting and locating tactile stimuli are doubly dissociable processes, presumably mediated by different neural structures. We conducted four psychophysical experiments seeking evidence for such a double dissociation in neurologically intact subjects. We compared people's accuracy in detecting versus locating a tactile stimulus presented to one of four fingers and followed by a vibrotactile mask presented to all four fingers. Accuracy scores for both the yes-no detection and four-alternative forced-choice location judgments were converted to a bias-free measure (d'), which revealed that subjects were better at detecting than locating the stimulus. Detection was also more sensitive than localization to manipulations involving the mask: detection accuracy increased more steeply than localization accuracy as the target-mask interval increased, and detection, but not localization, was affected by changes in the mask frequency. By comparing these results with simulated data generated by computational models, we conclude that detection and localization are not mutually independent as previous neurological studies might suggest, but rather localization is subsequent to detection in a serially organized sensory processing hierarchy.
Odors detected by mice deficient in cyclic nucleotide-gated channel subunit A2 stimulate the main olfactory system.	It is believed that odor transduction in the mammalian main olfactory system only involves the cAMP-signaling pathway. Here, we report on odor responsiveness in mice with a disrupted cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channel subunit A2. Several odorants, including putative pheromones, can be detected and discriminated by these mice behaviorally. These odors elicit responses in the olfactory epithelium, main olfactory bulb, and olfactory (piriform) cortex of CNGA2 knock-out mice. In addition, responses to odors detected by CNGA2 knock-out mice are relatively insensitive to inhibitors of the cAMP pathway. These results provide strong evidence that cAMP-independent pathways in the main olfactory system of mammals participate in detecting a subset of odors.
Sensory mapping of lip representation in brass musicians with embouchure dystonia.	Embouchure dystonia is a focal task-specific disorder involving abnormal non-coordinated movements and involuntary muscle contraction around the mouth. In professional brass players it is often so disabling that patients have to limit or give up their occupation. We examined the somatosensory homuncular representation and measured gap detection sensitivity of the lips in eight former professional musicians affected by embouchure dystonia and eight control subjects. Relative to controls, the patients' digit, and especially the thumb, representations were shifted in a lateral direction towards the lip representational zone. Patients' upper lips showed decreased sensitivity compared to their lower lips (p < 0.01). This asymmetry result was absent in controls. Abnormal somatosensory reorganization may contribute to the disorder.
No correlation between moving phosphene and motor thresholds: a transcranial magnetic stimulation study.	The aim of this study was to investigate the temporal stability of moving phosphenes and to assess whether moving phosphene thresholds (PTs) correlate with motor thresholds (MTs). Small moving sensations, so-called moving phosphenes, are perceived when V5, an area important for visual motion analysis, is stimulated by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). However, it is still a matter of debate if V5 phosphenes are stable sensations across measurements and if they are a reasonable index of the cortical excitability of V5. Currently, MT is more commonly used as an index of global cortical excitability. However, previous studies have indicated that stationary PTs are suitable alternatives when the primary visual cortex is stimulated by TMS. Using paired-pulse TMS, stationary and moving PTs and applying single pulse TMS, MTs were measured in 11 subjects. PTs were retested in nine subjects 5-7 days later. Stationary and moving PTs were stable within subjects across the two sessions and showed a high inter-correlation. Conversely, PTs and MTs did not correlate. Our results are in agreement with previous studies showing that excitatory measurements of one specific cortex cannot be generalized to the excitability of the whole cortex. Thus, we propose specific measures for cortices of interest: PT for visual experiments and MT for motor experiments.
Functional MRI of the immediate impact of transcranial magnetic stimulation on cortical and subcortical motor circuits.	Recent studies indicate that the cortical effects of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) may not be localized to the site of stimulation, but spread to other distant areas. Using echo-planar imaging with blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) contrast at 3 Tesla, we measured MRI signal changes in cortical and subcortical motor regions during high-frequency (3.125 Hz) repetitive TMS (rTMS) of the left sensorimotor cortex (M1/S1) at intensities above and below the active motor threshold in healthy humans. The supra- and subthreshold nature of the TMS pulses was confirmed by simultaneous electromyographic monitoring of a hand muscle. Suprathreshold rTMS activated a network of primary and secondary cortical motor regions including M1/S1, supplementary motor area, dorsal premotor cortex, cingulate motor area, the putamen and thalamus. Subthreshold rTMS elicited no MRI-detectable activity in the stimulated M1/S1, but otherwise led to a similar activation pattern as obtained for suprathreshold stimulation though at reduced intensity. In addition, we observed activations within the auditory system, including the transverse and superior temporal gyrus, inferior colliculus and medial geniculate nucleus. The present findings support the notion that re-afferent feedback from evoked movements represents the dominant input to the motor system via M1 during suprathreshold stimulation. The BOLD MRI changes in motor areas distant from the site of subthreshold stimulation are likely to originate from altered synaptic transmissions due to induced excitability changes in M1/S1. They reflect the capability of rTMS to target both local and remote brain regions as tightly connected constituents of a cortical and subcortical network.
Global dendritic calcium spikes in mouse layer 5 low threshold spiking interneurones: implications for control of pyramidal cell bursting.	Interneuronal networks in neocortex underlie feedforward and feedback inhibition and control the temporal organization of pyramidal cell activity. We previously found that lower layer neocortical interneurones can reach action potential threshold in response to the stimulation of a single presynaptic cell. To better understand this phenomenon and the circuit roles of lower layer neocortical interneurones, we combined two-photon calcium imaging with whole cell recordings and anatomical reconstructions of low threshold spiking (LTS) interneurones from mouse neocortex. In both visual and somatosensory cortex, LTS interneurones are somatostatin-positive, concentrated in layer 5 and possess dense axonal innervation to layer 1. Due to the LTS properties, these neurones operate in burst and tonic modes. In burst mode, dendritic T-type calcium channels boosted small synaptic inputs and triggered low threshold calcium spikes, while in tonic mode, sodium-based APs evoked smaller calcium influxes. In both modes, the entire dendritic tree of LTS interneurones behaved as a 'global' single spiking unit. This, together with the fact that synaptic inputs to layer 5 LTS cells are facilitating, and that their axons target the dendritic region of the pyramidal neurones where bursts are generated, make these neurones ideally suited to detect and control burst generation of individual lower layer pyramidal neurones.
Differences in activity-dependent hyperpolarization in human sensory and motor axons.	The present study was undertaken to determine whether activity-dependent changes in axonal excitability are greater in motor axons than cutaneous afferents for the same impulse load. In nine healthy subjects, supramaximal stimulation at 8 Hz was delivered to the median nerve at the wrist. Changes in the threshold current required to generate compound motor and sensory potentials approximately 50% of maximum and other indices of axonal excitability were tracked before and after repetitive stimulation for 10 min. The long-lasting stimulation produced a prolonged depression in the excitability of both cutaneous afferents and motor axons, with gradual recovery to control levels over 15-20 min. These changes in threshold were associated with a reduction in refractoriness, an increase in supernormality and a decrease in the strength-duration time constant, changes consistent with axonal hyperpolarization. Greater changes in threshold occurred in motor axons: threshold increased by 9.9% and 16.4% for test stimulus durations of 0.1 and 1 ms, respectively, for motor axons and by 5.4% and 8.3% for cutaneous afferents. With higher stimulus frequencies and thereby greater impulse loads, greater threshold changes could be induced in cutaneous afferents. It is argued that the hyperpolarization resulted from activity of the electrogenic Na(+)-K+ pump, that it requires > 125 ms to restore the resting state following an action potential, and that significant intracellular Na+ accumulation occurs during a steady 8-Hz train. These findings imply that physiological discharge rates will activate the pump and thereby produce axonal hyperpolarization, the extent of which will vary with impulse load. A plausible explanation is that greater activity-dependent hyperpolarization in motor axons is due to less inward rectification as a result of less activity of the hyperpolarization-activated cation conductance (IH) than in cutaneous afferents.
Effects of age, menopause, and comorbidities on neurological function of the female genitalia.	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of age, menopause, and comorbidities on neurological function of the female genitalia using a noninvasive, validated technique. In all, 58 consecutive women were enrolled in the study. Biothesiometry was performed at five genital sites and one peripheral site with S2 dermatome distribution. Kruskal-Wallis one-way ANOVA on ranks was used to evaluate the relationship between age and vibratory sensation. Bivariate and regressional analyses were performed to evaluate the effects of age, menopause and comorbidities on genital sensation. The mean age was 44.6+14.8 y (range 20-78 y). Vibration thresholds increased with advancing age at all six sites. Multilinear regression analysis indicated that menopause and increasing age negatively affect sensation. History of herniated lumbar disc, vaginal delivery, and diabetes variably affected genital sensation. There is a significant increase in vibration thresholds (indicating worsening neurological function) in women as they age and undergo menopause. Biothesiometry is a technique for evaluating genital neurological function in women with coexisting morbidities.
Cooling detection thresholds in the assessment of diabetic sensory polyneuropathy: comparison of CASE IV and Medoc instruments.	Cooling detection threshold testing may be an important quantitative method for assessing polyneuropathy, in that it has traditionally been viewed as a measure of small-fiber involvement. The present study sought to determine the agreement between two common testing devices and to determine whether these are concordant in their association with predictor variables for diabetic sensory polyneuropathy.
Effect of cataract extraction on frequency doubling technology perimetry.	To investigate the effect of cataract extraction on the results of frequency doubling technology (FDT) perimetry in healthy subjects.
Digital innervation patterns following median or ulnar nerve laceration and their correlation to anatomic variations of the communicating branch between these nerves.	The midline of the ring finger is classically considered as the neural watershed between the median and ulnar nerve sensory territories on the palmar surfaces of the fingers. Variations of this division exist and may be explained by a communicating branch between the third and fourth common digital nerves. The palmar sensibility patterns of fingers were assessed with Semmes Weinstein filaments after either a complete median or an ulnar nerve transection in 43 patients. Eight out of nine observed sensibility patterns could be explained by known anatomic types and subtypes of the communicating branch. The type of communicating branch, but not its subtype, could be established in the one remaining pattern.
Altered visceral perceptual and neuroendocrine response in patients with irritable bowel syndrome during mental stress.	Stress often worsens the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). We hypothesised that this might be explained by altered neuroendocrine and visceral sensory responses to stress in IBS patients.
Reduction of stimulus artifact in somatosensory evoked potentials: segmented versus subthreshold training.	A new approach to stimulus artifact cancellation is introduced, which attempts to model the process of stimulus artifact generation. This is done by training an estimator with multiple exemplars of the stimulus artifact at levels below the threshold of evoked response stimulation. Two estimators are formulated: one using a dynamic neural network and another using a linear estimator. The performance of these new approaches is compared to the segmented training approach, which has been previously demonstrated to be one of the most capable methods available. Performance assessment is carried out using a novel metric introduced in this paper, which focuses upon the relevant portion of the recorded waveform. The new cancellation schemes show distinct performance advantages over the segmented training approach.
Postural stability in the elderly: empirical confirmation of a theoretical model.	The study investigated whether physiological factors related to specific body systems can explain postural control as measured by the scalar distance at a given time between the center of pressure (COP) and the center of mass (COM), the COP-COM variable. The data from 46 healthy subjects and 29 subjects with disabilities due to stroke or diabetic peripheral neuropathy were analyzed. The biomechanical variable COP-COM was determined using two force platforms and an optoelectric system. Three systems were considered as possible predictors of the COP-COM amplitude: sensory (somatosensory and vision), musculoskeletal and central processor. A confirmatory analysis was done using structural equation modeling. Strength explained 23.74% of the COP-COM amplitude in the antero-posterior (A/P) with eyes open (EO) condition, and in the medio-lateral (M/L) direction strength explained 40.73 and 28.75% in the EO and eyes closed (EC) respectively. In the A/P direction with EC, 51.75% of the COP-COM amplitude variance was explained mainly by the somatosensory system. This study highlight the role of peripheral somatosensory input and muscle strength in the maintenance of postural stability during quiet stance in the elderly. The indirect action of the different systems on the COP-COM amplitude supports the systems theory.
Evidence for reflex and perceptual vestibular contributions to postural control.	Vestibular signals are known to have an important role in stance under specific conditions. Potentially these effects could be modulated by vestibular reflexes or by voluntary responses to perceived vestibular signals. Our preliminary aim was to confirm that vestibulospinal reflexes change in parallel with sway under different postural conditions, and then to determine whether any relationship was present between these reflexes and body sway within fixed postural conditions. Sixteen subjects (eight male, eight female) were tested in conditions assessing the effects of vision (eyes open or closed), support surface (firm or compliant), external support (with or without) and stance width (feet apart or together). Sway (centre of pressure) in the anteroposterior (AP) and mediolateral planes was measured using a force platform. A subgroup of 11 subjects (five male, six female) underwent testing to measure short (SL) and medium latency (ML) reflexes from soleus. Bipolar, transmastoid galvanic stimulation (1 mA, 200 ms) was administered while subjects stood in the most unstable of our conditions (eyes closed, compliant surface and feet together). In the final part, to assess possible perceptual contributions to body sway, short duration AP sway levels were measured and expressed in angular terms (sway in mrad, velocity in mrad s(-1)) in the 11 subjects for both our baseline (eyes open, firm surface and feet apart) and most unstable conditions. Average sway levels increased more than seven-fold between conditions and had significant, positive correlations with reported changes in mean vestibulospinal reflexes under similar conditions (overall r = 0.75, P < 0.001). However, the SL reflex for the subgroup of 11 subjects had a significant negative correlation (r = -0.71; P = 0.014) with the degree of AP sway in the condition with maximum reliance on vestibular inputs (eyes closed, compliant surface, and feet together). Under baseline conditions, 5/125 (4%) of the short-term AP sway displacements were above the threshold previously reported for the detection of imposed sway. In the unstable condition, when sway was increased, 43/138 (31%) of the short-term AP sway movements were above the threshold for perception of imposed body sway based on vestibular signals. Our results confirm that vestibulospinal reflexes appear to be acutely facilitated as body sway increases. For the most unstable condition, when non-vestibular information was absent or attenuated, subjects with larger SL reflexes had less AP sway, suggesting that the SL reflex acted to attenuate sway. Under the same condition, short duration sway levels increased such that 31% were above the previously published threshold for detection using vestibular afferents. We conclude that both vestibular reflexes and perceptual signals appear to have a specific role in the maintenance of upright stance, under conditions in which other sources of postural information are attenuated or absent.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation in the visual system. I. The psychophysics of visual suppression.	When applied over the occipital pole, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) disrupts visual perception and induces phosphenes. Both the underlying mechanisms and the brain structures involved are still unclear. The first part of the study characterizes the suppressive effect of TMS by psychophysical methods. Luminance increment thresholds for orientation discrimination were determined in four subjects using an adaptive staircase procedure. Coil position was controlled with a stereotactic positioning device. Threshold values were modulated by TMS, reaching a maximum effect at a stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) of approx. 100 ms after visual target presentation. Stronger TMS pulses increased the maximum threshold while decreasing the SOA producing the maximum effect. Slopes of the psychometric function were flattened with TMS masking by a factor of 2, compared to control experiments in the absence of TMS. No change in steepness was observed in experiments using a light flash as the mask instead of TMS. Together with the finding that at higher TMS intensities, threshold elevation occurs even with shorter SOAs, this suggests lasting inhibitory processes as masking mechanisms, contradicting the assumption that the phosphene as excitatory equivalent causes masking. In the companion contribution to this one we present perimetric measurements and phosphene forms as a function of the stimulation site in the brain and discuss the putative generator structures.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation in the visual system. II. Characterization of induced phosphenes and scotomas.	Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) induces phosphenes and disrupts visual perception when applied over the occipital pole. Both the underlying mechanisms and the brain structures involved are still unclear. In the first part of this study we show that the masking effect of TMS differs to masking by light in terms of the psychometric function. Here we investigate the emergence of phosphenes in relation to perimetric measurements. The coil positions were measured with a stereotactic positioning device, and stimulation sites were characterized in four subjects on the basis of individual retinotopic maps measured by with functional magnetic resonance imaging. Phosphene thresholds were found to lie a factor of 0.59 below the stimulation intensities required to induce visual masking. They covered the segments in the visual field where visual suppression occurred with higher stimulation intensity. Both phosphenes and transient scotomas were found in the lower visual field in the quadrant contralateral to the stimulated hemisphere. They could be evoked from a large area over the occipital pole. Phosphene contours and texture remained quite stable with different coil positions over one hemisphere and did not change with the retinotopy of the different visual areas on which the coil was focused. They cannot be related exclusively to a certain functionally defined visual area. It is most likely that both the optic radiation close to its termination in the dorsal parts of V1 and back-projecting fibers from V2 and V3 back to V1 generate phosphenes and scotomas.
Goldfish color vision sensitivity is high under light-adapted conditions.	The wavelength discrimination threshold of three goldfish was examined in a series of behavioral experiments. Using an auto-shaping technique, detection thresholds were established for 531 and 648 nm spectral increments presented on a 6.6 cd m(-2) white background. Next, discrimination between the wavelengths was established at equal, suprathreshold, intensities. Finally, the intensities of the two stimuli were reduced to establish the intensity threshold for the wavelength discrimination. The results indicate that goldfish, like several mammalian species, can discriminate wavelength at detection threshold intensity. This finding suggests that high color sensitivity is not confined to mammals or dependent upon a very high percentage of wavelength opponent ganglion cells. Rather, high color vision sensitivity may be based upon an inherent sensitivity advantage of wavelength opponent receptive fields compared to non-wavelength opponent receptive fields and be an important selective advantage of wavelength opponency and color vision.
One-hertz subthreshold rTMS increases the threshold for evoking inhibition in the human motor cortex.	Despite indisputable evidence that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) modulates motor cortical excitability, the effects of subthreshold low-frequency rTMS on intracortical inhibition (ICI) are controversial. In this paper we investigated whether increasing the level of baseline ICI increases the sensitivity of ICI for disclosing the after-effects of rTMS on cortical excitability. In experiment 1, we studied changes in ICI, tested at two different baseline levels, after a train of 900 subthreshold rTMS pulses delivered at 1 Hz. In experiment 2, we studied whether the same conditioning rTMS train changed the ICI threshold, and in experiment 3 whether it changed the facilitatory I-wave interaction. Conditioning rTMS reduced ICI tested at a baseline level of 75% but left ICI tested at a baseline level of 50% unchanged. It also increased the ICI threshold but left the facilitatory I-wave interaction unchanged. These findings suggest that conditioning rTMS selectively reduced ICI tested at a baseline level of 75% by increasing the threshold for evoking inhibition in the motor cortex. The inhibitory system mediating ICI may therefore be more efficient than other motor cortical systems in reducing high cortical excitability after external intervention. Hence studies investigating the after-effects of rTMS should standardize ICI levels at baseline.
Impaired odor recognition memory in patients with hippocampal lesions.	In humans, impaired recognition memory following lesions thought to be limited to the hippocampal region has been demonstrated for a wide variety of tasks. However, the importance of the human hippocampus for olfactory recognition memory has scarcely been explored. We evaluated the ability of memory-impaired patients with damage thought to be limited to the hippocampal region to recognize a list of odors. The patients were significantly impaired after a retention delay of 1 h. Olfactory sensitivity was intact. This finding is in agreement with earlier reports that rats with hippocampal lesions exhibited memory impairment on an odor delayed nonmatching to sample task (after 30 min and 1 h) and that patients with damage thought to be limited to the hippocampal region were impaired on an odor span memory task. Olfactory recognition memory, similar to recognition memory in other sensory modalities, depends on the integrity of the hippocampal region.
"Acoustical vision" of below threshold stimuli: interaction among spatially converging audiovisual inputs.	Crossmodal spatial integration between auditory and visual stimuli is a common phenomenon in space perception. The principles underlying such integration have been outlined by neurophysiological and behavioral studies in animals; this study investigated whether the integrative effects observed in animals also apply to humans. In this experiment we systematically varied the spatial disparity (0 degrees, 16 degrees, and 32 degrees) and the temporal interval (0, 100, 200, 300, 400, and 500 ms) between the visual and the auditory stimuli. Normal subjects were required to detect visual stimuli presented below threshold either in unimodal visual conditions or in crossmodal audiovisual conditions. Signal detection measures were used. An enhancement of the perceptual sensitivity (d') for luminance detection was found when the audiovisual stimuli followed a simple spatial and temporal rule, governing multisensory integration at the neuronal level.
Visual experience can substantially alter critical flicker fusion thresholds.	Studies of psychopharmacology often use the test of the critical flicker fusion (CFF) threshold as a measure of total information processing. It is true that studies of practice effects have shown that CFF thresholds are remarkably stable within and across multiple days of testing. This study confirms that subjects who undergo CFF testing on sequential days have stable thresholds, but also demonstrates that in subjects who conducted 1 h of motion training per day for 9 days the CFF thresholds increased by an average of 30%. The results show that the perceptual experience of subjects can dramatically alter the CFF thresholds and should be an important consideration in the control of studies employing the CFF as a measure.
The effect of flicker rate on nasal and temporal measured visual field extent in infants.	To explore the effect of peripheral stimulus flicker rate on measured visual field extent (MVFE) in young infants.
Using visual noise to characterize amblyopic letter identification.	Amblyopia is a much-studied but poorly understood developmental visual disorder that reduces acuity, profoundly reducing contrast sensitivity for small targets. Here we use visual noise to probe the letter identification process and characterize its impairment by amblyopia. We apply five levels of analysis - threshold, threshold in noise, equivalent noise, optical MTF, and noise modeling - to obtain a two-factor model of the amblyopic deficit: substantially reduced efficiency for small letters and negligibly increased cortical noise. Cortical noise, expressed as an equivalent input noise, varies among amblyopes but is roughly 1.4x normal, as though only 1/1.4 the normal number of cortical spikes are devoted to the amblyopic eye. This raises threshold contrast for large letters by a factor of radical1.4 = 1.2x, a negligible effect. All 16 amblyopic observers showed near-normal efficiency for large letters (> 4x acuity) and greatly reduced efficiency for small letters: 1/4 normal at 2x acuity and approaching 1/16 normal at acuity. Finding that the acuity loss represents a loss of efficiency rules out all models of amblyopia except those that predict the same sensitivity loss on blank and noisy backgrounds. One such model is the last-channel hypothesis, which supposes that the highest-spatial-frequency channels are missing, leaving the remaining highest-frequency channel struggling to identify the smallest letters. However, this hypothesis is rejected by critical band masking of letter identification, which shows that the channels used by the amblyopic eye have normal tuning for even the smallest letters. Finally, based on these results, we introduce a new "Dual Acuity" chart that promises to be a quick diagnostic test for amblyopia.
Area summation and masking.	At detection threshold, sensitivity improves as the area of a test grating increases, but not when the test is placed on a pedestal and the task becomes contrast discrimination (G. E. Legge & J. M. Foley, 1980). This study asks whether the abolition of area summation is specific to the situation where mask and test stimuli have the same spatial frequency and orientation ("within-channel" masking) or is more general, also occurring when mask and test stimuli are very different ("cross-channel" masking). Threshold versus contrast masking functions were measured where the test and mask were either both small (SS), both large (LL), or small and large, respectively (SL). For within-channel masking, facilitation and area summation were found at low mask contrasts, but the results for SS and LL converged at intermediate contrasts and above, replicating Legge and Foley (1980). For all three observers, less facilitation was found for SL than for SS. For cross-channel masking, area summation occurred across the entire masking function and results for SS and SL were identical. The results for the entire data set were well fit by an extended version of a contrast masking model (J. M. Foley, 1994) in which the weights of excitatory and suppressive surround terms were free parameters. I conclude that (i) there is no empirical abolition of area summation for cross-channel masking, (ii) within-channel area summation can be abolished empirically without being disabled in the model, (iii) observers are able to select the area of spatial integration, but not suppression, (iv) extending a cross-channel mask to the surround has no effect on contrast detection, and (v) there is a formal similarity between area summation and contrast adaptation.
Spatial attention excludes external noise without changing the spatial frequency tuning of the perceptual template.	In this study, we investigated the functional mechanism by which spatial attention excludes unwanted information, a consequence of attention that has been consistently demonstrated at the neuronal level, the neural population level, and the overall behavioral level. The effect of spatial attention was measured using a temporal cuing paradigm. External noise, whose spatial frequency characteristics were systematically manipulated, was added to the signal stimulus. Contrast thresholds were measured as functions of the pass-band of the external noise to reveal the spatial frequency characteristics of the perceptual template in both the attended and unattended conditions. We found that spatial attention excludes external noise uniformly across all the spatial frequencies without changing the spatial frequency selectivity of the perceptual template.
Attentional cueing improves vision restoration therapy in patients with visual field defects.	In patients with postgenicular lesions of the visual system, areas of residual vision (ARVs) are the main predictor of recovery induced by vision restoration therapy (VRT). In these partially defective regions, the elevated perceptual thresholds can be acutely reduced by attentional cueing.
Improvement of spatial contrast sensitivity threshold after surgical reduction of intraocular pressure in unilateral high-tension glaucoma.	To measure the effect of a surgical reduction of IOP on the spatial contrast sensitivity threshold in eyes showing a considerably increased IOP but no glaucomatous visual field defect, on white-on-white computer-assisted static perimetry.
Vascular and nerve damage in workers exposed to vibrating tools. The importance of objective measurements of exposure time.	The aim of the present study was to compare the development of vibration white fingers (VWF) in workers in relation to different ways of exposure estimation, and their relationship to the standard ISO 5349, annex A. Nineteen vibration exposed (grinding machines) male workers completed a questionnaire followed by a structured interview including questions regarding their estimated hand-held vibration exposure. Neurophysiological tests such as fractionated nerve conduction velocity in hands and arms, vibrotactile perception thresholds and temperature thresholds were determined. The subjective estimation of the mean daily exposure-time to vibrating tools was 192 min (range 18-480 min) among the workers. The estimated mean exposure time calculated from the consumption of grinding wheels was 42 min (range 18-60 min), approximately a four-fold overestimation (Wilcoxon's signed ranks test, p<0.001). Thus, objective measurements of the exposure time, related to the standard ISO 5349, which in this case were based on the consumption of grinding wheels, will in most cases give a better basis for adequate risk assessment than self-exposure assessment.
Menstrual cycle-dependent changes in visual field analysis of healthy women.	To determine the effect of menstrual cycle phases on the visual field analysis of healthy females.
Orientation selectivity in luminance and color vision assessed using 2-d band-pass filtered spatial noise.	We evaluated orientation discrimination in color and luminance vision using an external noise paradigm. Stimuli were spatiotemporal patches of 2D orientation noise isolating the achromatic, red-green and blue-yellow mechanisms, and matched in multiples of contrast detection threshold. We found a monotonic increase of orientation discrimination thresholds with the stimuli orientation bandwidths that is similar for both color and luminance contrasts. This dependence was fitted with two suitable models. A variance summation model suggests that internal orientation noise is significantly greater for the chromatic than for the achromatic mechanisms, while the efficiencies are similar. A gain control model of orientation tuning suggests that both chromatic and achromatic mechanisms are characterized by broadly tuned orientation detectors and that the relative chromatic deficit in orientation discrimination may only result from a slightly broader orientation tuning for the chromatic mechanisms. The moderate deficiency in chromatic orientation discrimination may account for the small differences found in shape perception between color and luminance vision.
Stereothresholds for moving line stimuli for a range of velocities.	This study examined the influence of lateral target motion on the stereothresholds for bright vertical lines at a range of velocities. Stimuli were presented for 200 ms with horizontal velocities from 0 to 12 deg/s. Observers' horizontal eye movements were recorded on additional trials, and confirmed that the velocity of retinal image motion closely matched the velocity of the stimulus. In three auxiliary experiments, stereothresholds were measured (1) after equating the detectability of targets that moved at different velocities, (2) for moving and stationary stimuli with durations between 20 and 200 ms, and (3) for stationary stimuli presented at eccentricities of 0.6 and 1.2 deg. The results indicate that stereothresholds are unaffected by velocities up to approximately 2 deg/s, but worsen in proportion to the velocity at higher speeds. The results of our auxiliary experiments demonstrate that the increase in stereothresholds during image motion cannot be attributed primarily to a reduction in the detectability of the stimulus, a decrease in the effective exposure duration, or non-foveal viewing. We conclude that the elevation of stereo thresholds during lateral motion is consistent with a shift in the sensitivity of the visual system toward lower spatial frequencies as a result of motion blur.
How many pathways determine the speed of grating detection?	Reaction time (RT) for detection of gratings of different spatial frequencies (SF, 0.87-13.87 c/d) and contrast (2-32 times above the detection threshold) was measured. It was found that at low stimulus contrast, 2 and 4 times above the detection threshold, the dependence of mean RT on SF is an "S"-type function with the two plateaus 50-60 ms apart. The standard deviation (SD) increases significantly for SFs within the range 2.60-6.93 c/deg and this coincides with the transition of mean RT from one plateau to another. At higher contrast the dependence of RT on the SF is a monotonically increasing function without any plateau and SD does not demonstrate any extrema within the entire SF-range. The results suggest that RT is determined by two mechanisms (transient and sustained) at low contrast, and by one (transient) mechanism at higher contrasts.
The maturation of form and motion perception in school age children.	The purpose of the current study was to investigate the maturation of form and motion perception, specifically the component visual abilities involved in the identification of motion-defined form, in children ranging in age from 3 to 12 years. Experiment 1 compared the maturation of motion-defined and texture-defined shape identification. Minimum speed thresholds on the motion-defined shape task decreased until age 7 years. Orientation difference thresholds on the texture-defined shape task decreased until age 11 years. Experiment 2 compared the maturation of global motion and global texture direction discrimination. Coherence thresholds on both tasks were similar in children of all ages and adults. Experiment 3 compared the maturation of direction discrimination on motion coherence and motion displacement tasks. Maximum displacement thresholds (Dmax) increased until age 7 years. The results are discussed with respect to the maturation of M/dorsal and P/ventral visual pathways.
The detection of motion in chromatic stimuli: first-order and second-order spatial structure.	This study provides evidence for the existence of a low-level chromatic motion mechanism and further elucidates the conditions under which its operation becomes measurable in an experimental stimulus. Observers discriminated the direction of motion of amplitude modulated (AM) gratings that were defined by luminance or chromatic variation and masked with spatiotemporally broadband luminance or chromatic noise. The size and retinal location of the stimuli were varied and the effects of broadband noise and grating masks were both compared with the cohort of stimuli. Some significant disparities in the published literature were well explained by the results. In conclusion, evidence for a chromatically sensitive motion mechanism that evades the, detrimental effects of a luminance mask was found only at the fovea and only when the stimulus was small and centrally placed.
Interactions between luminance and contrast signals in global form detection.	The human visual system is adept at detecting global structure, or form, within a scene. The initial stage of post-retinal processing for all aspects of vision is fed by On- and Off-centre cells sensitive to centred luminance increments and decrements respectively. These cells provide input to two parallel pathways that process variations in local luminance (first-order pathway) and local contrast (second-order pathway). Here, we investigate the contribution of luminance and contrast information to global form detection, a stage between the extraction of local orientation and the recognition of objects. The underlying processes involve two stages. We find that signals in the On-, Off- and second-order pathways are segregated at both stages of processing. Surprisingly, the non-linear stage in the second-order form pathway is different from that in motion processing: the second-order form detectors show an asymmetry in sensitivity to increments and decrements that is not apparent in motion. A functional architecture for global form detection is proposed along with its possible neural substrates.
Detection sensitivity and temporal resolution of visual signals near absolute threshold in the salamander retina.	Several studies have suggested that the visual system can detect dim lights with a fidelity limited only by Poisson fluctuations in photon absorption and spontaneous activation of rhodopsin. If correct, this implies that neural processing of responses produced by rod photoreceptors is efficient and effectively noiseless. However, experimental uncertainty makes this conclusion tenuous. Furthermore, previous work provided no information about how accurately stimulus timing is represented. Here, the detection sensitivity and temporal resolution of salamander rods and retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are compared in nearly matched experimental conditions by using recorded responses to identify the time of a flash. At detection threshold, RGCs could reliably signal the absorption of 20-50 photons, but the rods within the RGC receptive field could signal stimuli 3-10 times weaker. For flash strengths 10 times higher than detection threshold, some RGCs could distinguish stimulus timing with a resolution finer than 100 msec, within a factor of 2 of the rod limit. The relationship between RGC and rod sensitivity could not be explained by added noise in the retinal circuitry but could be explained by a threshold acting after pooling of rod signals. Simulations of rod signals indicated that continuous noise, rather than spontaneous activation of rhodopsin or fluctuations in the single-photon response, limited temporal resolution. Thus, detection of dim lights was limited by retinal processing, but, at higher light levels, synaptic transmission, cellular integration of synaptic inputs, and spike generation in RGCs faithfully conveyed information about the time of photon absorption.
Foveal blur discrimination of the human eye.	Although the effect of retinal defocus on the foveal blur detection threshold has been well investigated, knowledge regarding the foveal blur discrimination threshold is limited. In the present study, both thresholds were assessed psychophysically using the ascending method of limits at the fovea with accommodation paralyzed. The unidirectional blur detection threshold was 0.87+/-0.18 D (+/-1 S.E.M.). The subsequent blur discrimination thresholds were relatively constant and significantly smaller than the blur detection threshold, with an average value of 0.48+/-0.006 D (+/-1 S.E.M.). We speculate that the difference in magnitude between these two thresholds may be attributed to the defocus-related change in the ocular modulation transfer function (MTF) and its interaction with contrast discrimination ability, as well as to the presence of a neuroperceptual blur buffering mechanism.
Chemosensory perception and event-related potentials in self-reported chemical hypersensitivity.	Anormal chemosensory perception has been identified as a possible mechanism underlying odor intolerance, but research in this domain has yet been rather limited. The main objective of the present study was to investigate total perceived intensity, unpleasantness, sensory irritation, and cortical activity assessed with chemosensory event-related potentials (ERPs) for three concentrations of pyridine ranging from predominantly olfactory to trigeminal in activation. Results from 19 individuals with self-reported chemical hypersensitivity and 19 controls with self-reported normal chemical sensitivity show that the hypersensitive group, compared to controls, rated the pyridine stimuli to be more intense and unpleasant, and that these group differences increased with pyridine concentration. Sensory irritation was also the perceptual dimension found to correlate strongest with score on the chemical sensitivity scale. However, no group differences were found in ERP amplitudes or latencies. These findings suggest that self-reported chemical hypersensitivity (1) can be associated with anormal chemosensory perception, (2) may be more closely related to trigeminal function than to olfaction, and (3) has a neural basis at a higher cortical level than that captured by chemosensory ERPs.
Modulation of intracortical excitability in human hand motor areas. The effect of cutaneous stimulation and its topographical arrangement.	Changes in afferent input can alter the excitability of intracortical inhibitory systems. For example, using paired transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), both electrical digital stimulation and muscle vibration have been shown to reduce short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI). The effects following muscle vibration are confined to the corticospinal projection to the vibrated muscles. The results following digital stimulation are less clear and the relative timing of the cutaneous stimulation and TMS is critical. Here we investigated further whether changes in SICI following digit stimulation exhibit topographic specificity. Eleven normal subjects were investigated (age 28.2+/-7.5 years, mean+/-SD). Electromyographic recordings were made from the right first dorsal interosseous (FDI), abductor digiti minimi (ADM) and abductor pollicis brevis (APB) muscles. SICI was measured, with and without preceding electrical digit II or digit V cutaneous stimulation. The interval between the digital nerve stimulus and test magnetic stimulus was independently set for each subject and established by subtracting the onset latency of the motor evoked potential (MEP) from the latency of the E2 component of the cutaneomuscular reflex. Therefore, measures of intracortical excitability were made at a time at which it is known that cutaneous input is capable of modulating cortical excitability. Single digital nerve stimuli applied to digit II significantly reduced SICI in FDI but not in ADM. Single digital nerve stimuli applied to digit V significantly reduced SICI in ADM but not in FDI or APB. There was a more generalised effect on intracortical facilitation (ICF) with both digit II and digit V stimulation significantly increasing ICF in FDI and ADM. Digital stimulation (either DII or DV) did not significantly affect SICI/ICF in APB. These findings show that appropriately timed cutaneous stimuli are capable of modulating SICI in a topographically specific manner. We suggest that the selective decrease in SICI seen with cutaneous stimulation may be important for focusing of muscle activation during motor tasks.
Rectal hyposensitivity: a disorder of the rectal wall or the afferent pathway? An assessment using the barostat.	Rectal hyposensitivity (RH) relates to a diminished perception of rectal distension. Diagnosis on the basis of abnormal threshold volumes on balloon distension alone may be inaccurate due to the influence of differing rectal wall properties. The aim of this study was to investigate whether RH was actually due to impaired afferent nerve function or whether it could be secondary to abnormalities of the rectal wall.
Correlation between speed perception and neural activity in the middle temporal visual area.	We conducted electrophysiological recording and microstimulation experiments to test the hypothesis that the middle temporal visual area (MT) plays a direct role in perception of the speed of moving visual stimuli. We trained rhesus monkeys on a speed discrimination task in which monkeys chose the faster speed of two moving random dot patterns presented simultaneously in spatially segregated apertures. In electrophysiological experiments, we analyzed the activity of speed-tuned MT neurons and multiunit clusters during the discrimination task. Neural activity was correlated with the monkeys' behavioral choices on a trial-to-trial basis (choice probability), and the correlation was predicted by the speed-tuning properties of each unit. In microstimulation experiments, we activated clusters of MT neurons with homogeneous speed-tuning properties during the same speed discrimination task. In one monkey, microstimulation biased speed judgments toward the preferred speed of the stimulated neurons. Together, evidence from these two experiments suggests that MT neurons play a direct role in the perception of visual speed. Comparison of psychometric and neurometric thresholds revealed that single and multineuronal signals were, on average, considerably less sensitive than were the monkeys perceptually, suggesting that signals must be pooled across neurons to account for performance.
Experiences in lingual nerve repair.	An account is given of the experience gained through the exploration of 23 lingual nerves injured during third molar surgery, including a description of the findings in each case and the repair methods used. Details are given of the results of the preoperative and postoperative assessment. The outcome on the whole has been disappointing, and possible reasons for this are discussed. The discussion includes an evaluation of the use of somatosensory evoked potentials as part of the diagnostic method.
Association of striatal dopamine D2/D3 receptor binding potential with pain but not tactile sensitivity or placebo analgesia.	Striatal dopamine D2/D3 receptors have been suggested to play a role in pain sensitivity and placebo effect. We studied whether the association of dopamine D2/D3 receptor binding potential (BP) with sensory thresholds is specific to the modality of pain, and whether striatal dopamine D2/D3 receptor BP predicts the magnitude of placebo analgesia. Pain and tactile thresholds, and placebo analgesia were assessed in eight healthy human male subjects who had previously participated in a dopamine D2/D3 receptor positron emission tomography study with [11C]raclopride. The results show that the cutaneous heat pain threshold was inversely correlated with dopamine D2/D3 receptor BP in the right putamen, but responses to tactile stimulation did not correlate with striatal dopamine D2/D3 receptor BP. Placebo-induced elevation of the heat pain threshold did not correlate with striatal dopamine D2/D3 receptor BP. These results suggest that the influence of striatal dopamine D2/D3 receptors on sensory thresholds is selective for the modality of pain. Moreover, striatal dopamine D2/D3 receptor BP appears not to predict individual's analgesic response to placebo.
Whisker-based discrimination of object orientation determined with a rapid training paradigm.	Rats use their large facial whiskers to discriminate the spatial features of objects. Despite numerous electrophysiological recording studies in the central trigeminal whisker representations that document neurons tuned to the direction of whisker deflection, there is no behavioral evidence to date that rats can use their whiskers to discriminate between object orientations. In the present study, we characterized whisker-dependent orientation discrimination using a one-trial learning procedure. Sprague-Dawley rats were trained and tested in a three-arm 'Y-maze' that was outfitted with 180 independently moveable bars that protruded into the arms of the maze to contact the whiskers. On the first day, the maze was configured to have two arms with only horizontal bars and a third arm with only vertical bars and rats were allowed to freely explore all arms. On the second day, rats were isolated in one arm that contained only vertical bars as a conditioned stimulus (CS) and administered three mild foot shocks. On the third day, the maze was configured identically to the first day and rats were once again allowed to freely explore the maze. We measured the percentage of time spent in each arm of the maze and found that most rats spent significantly less time in the arm containing the CS after training compared to before training. Subsequent control experiments determined that the conditioned avoidance was attributable to orientation cues, was caused by the association of the conditioned and unconditioned stimulus and was whisker-dependent. Avoidance behavior was significantly reduced when the difference between the conditioned and non-conditioned orientation difference was reduced to 45 degrees. Thus, rats can discriminate object orientation with their whiskers and an estimate of their discrimination thresholds can be rapidly acquired through the application of a one-trial learning paradigm.
Olfactory functions and volumetric measures of orbitofrontal and limbic regions in schizophrenia.	Olfactory deficits in schizophrenia patients have been suggested to reflect medial temporal and/or prefrontal brain abnormalities. In this study, we examined the relationship between different olfactory functions and volumes of the hippocampus-amygdala complex (HAC) and the orbitofrontal brain region using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Role of occlusal vertical dimension in spindle function.	Several studies have suggested the jaw-muscle spindle as the receptor responsible for regulating and maintaining the occlusal vertical dimension (OVD). However, to challenge this assumption, we hypothesized that long-term changes in OVD could affect the sensory inputs from jaw-muscle spindles. In this study, we investigated changes in masseter muscle spindle function under an increased OVD (iOVD) condition. Responses of primary and secondary endings of masseter muscle spindles to cyclic sinusoidal stretches were investigated. Twenty barbiturate-anesthetized female Wistar rats were divided into control and iOVD groups. Rats in the iOVD group received a 2.0-mm composite resin build-up to the maxillary molars. After iOVD, masseter muscle spindle sensitivity gradually decreased. Primary and secondary spindle endings were affected differently. We conclude that iOVD caused reduction in masseter muscle spindle sensitivity. This result suggests that peripheral sensory plasticity may occur following changes in OVD. Such changes may provide a basis for physiological adaptation to clinical occlusal adjustments.
The effect of bilateral lingual nerve anesthesia and increased occlusal vertical dimension on the onset of swallowing in adult males.	The present study attempts to determine whether the onset of swallowing is affected by bilateral lingual and inferior alveolar nerve anesthesia and by raising the occlusal vertical dimension by wearing an occlusal bite plate. Twenty young male volunteers were selected and asked to chew and swallow corned beef and a corned beef and liquid mixture in their usual manner before and after modifications were made. Oral and pharyngeal swallowing was investigated using videofluoroscopic examination in the lateral plane. Eight objective indicators, including oral containment time, swallowing threshold, and pharynx-to-swallow intervals were estimated. Oral containment time, total sequence duration, total number of chews, and total number of swallows of the two test foods were significantly different before and after the modifications. Individual pharynx-to-swallow intervals also varied. The results indicate that modification of the masticatory condition affects the onset of swallowing and that changes in the onset varied among the participants.
"Off" gait freezing and temporal discrimination threshold in patients with Parkinson disease.	To investigate the relationship between temporal discrimination threshold (TDT) and "off" period gait freezing (OGF) in patients with fluctuating Parkinson disease (PD).
Viewing touch improves tactile sensory threshold.	Previous research on multisensory integration has demonstrated that viewing the stimulated body part enhances discrimination ability. Participants in this experiment watched a video showing a hand being touched by a stick and a second video showing the stick touching the space beneath the hand. Sensory thresholds of the index fingers were tested with von Frey filaments. We found significant enhancements of the sensory threshold after showing the video with the touched hand but not after showing the video with no touch of the hand. This enhancement was specific for the index finger shown in the video. The results link the visuotactile enhancement of this study to the observation of touch rather than to the simple depiction of the body part.
Altered primary afferent anatomy and reduced thermal sensitivity in mice lacking galectin-1.	The transmission of nociceptive information occurs along non-myelinated, or thinly myelinated, primary afferent axons. These axons are generally classified as peptidergic (CGRP-expressing) or non-peptidergic (IB4-binding), although there is a sub-population that is both CGRP-positive and IB4-binding. During neuronal development and following injury, trophic factors and their respective receptors regulate their survival and repair. Recent reports also show that the carbohydrate-binding protein galectin-1 (Gal1), which is expressed by nociceptive primary afferent neurons during development and into adulthood, is involved in axonal pathfinding and regeneration. Here we characterize anatomical differences in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of Gal1 homozygous null mutant mice (Gal1(-/-)), as well as behavioural differences in tests of nociception. Gal1(-/-) mice have a significantly reduced proportion of IB4-binding DRG neurons, an increased proportion of NF200-immunoreactive DRG neurons, increased depth of central terminals of IB4-binding and CGRP-immunoreactive axons in the dorsal horn, and a reduced number of Fos-positive second order neurons following thermal (cold or hot) stimulation. While there is no difference in the total number of axons in the dorsal root of Gal1(-/-) mice, there are an increased number of myelinated axons, suggesting that in the absence of Gal1, neurons that are normally destined to become IB4-binding instead become NF200-expressing. In addition, mice lacking Gal1 have a decreased sensitivity to noxious thermal stimuli. We conclude that Gal1 is involved in nociceptive neuronal development and that the lack of this protein results in anatomical and functional deficits in adulthood.
Vernier acuity for stereodisparate objects and ocular prevalence.	How precisely can objects, located in different depth planes, be aligned to the same visual direction?
Use of the Rydel-Seiffer graduated tuning fork in the assessment of vibration threshold in postherpetic neuralgia patients and healthy controls.	Afferent large fibre impairment has been reported as a useful predictor of postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) in patients with acute herpes zoster infection, using an electromechanical device to provide quantitative vibrametry. We aimed to demonstrate a clinically significant increase in vibration threshold in individuals with PHN compared to age-matched controls, using the portable and affordable Rydel-Seiffer graduated tuning fork.
The optical-geometrical characteristics and thresholds of perception of fragmented outline figures.	Measurements were made of the threshold of recognition of cumulatively forming line figures. The threshold value of the outline, expressed in pixels, depended on the length of the outline of the whole unfragmented figure. Relative threshold values were constant, and for the measures of figure fragments used in the present study, averaged 12.5%. A spatial frequency analysis of the test images was performed. Variation of the amplitude-frequency parameters of the spectra of the images of various figures with threshold fragmentation was minimal as compared with the variation of these parameters in figures with subthreshold or suprathreshold levels of fragmentation.
Characterization of different paresthesias following orthognathic surgery of the mandible.	Paresthesia is a well known consequence of peripheral nerve injury. However, the neural mechanisms of the 2 recognized types, spontaneous and elicited, are currently unknown. This study aimed to investigate these 2 paresthesias and the possible mechanisms accompanying orthognathic surgery.
Changes in visual motion perception before saccadic eye movements.	Execution of a saccadic eye movement influences subsequent motion perception [Park, J., Lee, J., & Lee, C. (2001). Non-veridical visual motion perception immediately after saccades. Vision Research, 41, 3751-3761]. In the current study, we determined the pattern of perceptual changes for visual motion presented before saccades. The accuracy of judging the direction of a moving target was variable depending on the direction of target motion. Based on the pattern of judgment errors, the direction associated with no error, or DNE, could be defined. When a moving target was seen by stationary eyes, the DNE was roughly vertical, and the perceptual judgment for adjacent directions was biased away from the vertical direction. When the same visual motion was seen before horizontal saccades, the DNE shifted in the direction of the impending saccade, and the perceptual judgment of adjacent directions was shifted away from the new DNE, thus, shifting the perceived direction of the vertical in the direction opposite to the saccade. These changes improved the accuracy of direction judgment for visual motion in the visual field ipsiversive to impending saccades. In addition to shift of the DNE, perceptual judgment for oblique directions became near veridical before saccades, which we call the anti-oblique effect. These results suggest that motion perception is dynamically and anisotropically modulated at the time of saccades, and the DNE shift may be a part of processes dynamically reallocating computational resources, improving perceptual performance in advance for sensory events to be acquired by impending saccades.
Spatial frequency discrimination of band-limited periodic targets: effects of stimulus contrast, bandwidth and retinal eccentricity.	Two experiments were conducted to explore the ability of human observers to discriminate the spatial frequency of briefly-presented, Gaussian-truncated sinewave gratings. In the first experiment, the influence of stimulus contrast and stimulus bandwidth on discrimination thresholds was measured after removing any position cues by randomizing the spatial phase of the gratings for each presentation. In a second experiment, the influence of retinal eccentricity on discrimination thresholds was explored for Gaussian-truncated gratings of constant spatial frequency bandwidth (0.5 octave) and suprathreshold contrast value (5 x detection threshold). The spatial frequency of the reference gratings varied from 1 to 8 c/deg. The gratings were positioned centered at the fixation point or 1-20 deg eccentric of the point of fixation along the horizontal meridian. Two observers responded in a two-interval forced-choice paradigm, which of two gratings had a higher spatial frequency. A difference frequency was randomly added to or subtracted from the spatial frequency of either the first or second grating. Using a maximum-likelihood algorithm, the spatial-frequency discrimination threshold delta f was computed from 40 trials, at which the observer responded with 75% accuracy. The results indicate that discrimination thresholds increase with (1) decreasing stimulus contrast, (2) increasing stimulus bandwidth, and (3) increasing retinal eccentricity. It is shown that spatial-frequency discrimination thresholds are only independent of contrast for narrow bandwidth stimuli having a contrast greater than 0.02. The eccentricity-dependent increase in discrimination thresholds varies with reference spatial frequency: with increasing retinal eccentricity delta f/f increases gradually for low spatial frequencies but rapidly for high spatial frequencies.
Texture segregation in the cat: a parametric study.	We have investigated how different texture parameters affect texture segregation in the cat, and which strategies cats use to solve the segregation task. Five cats were presented with stimuli consisting of two adjacent panels. One side contained a square area of a particular texture embedded in a different background texture; the other side was filled with only the background texture. The animal's task was to detect at which side the texture difference was presented. Sensitivity for the texture difference was assessed by making one aspect of the texture (in most instances the size of the texture elements) dependent upon performance by means of a staircase procedure. Among the most prominent parametric effects are those of density and element position randomization. In general, segregation was optimal at intermediate densities and deteriorated at larger and smaller densities. Element position randomization caused a slight but systematic decrease in segregation performance. Furthermore, we found texture elements at the border between different textures to be of primary importance for segregation. Which strategy the animals used for solving the segregation task depended upon the presence of random figure/background reversals in subsequent stimulus presentations during training. The animals learned to detect texture differences if these reversals were present, and without reversals, they learned to identify the particular texture in the target square. Interestingly, parameter dependencies of segregation did not depend upon the detection strategy used. We have speculated that the two different strategies used by the cats to solve the segregation tasks are related to different hierarchical levels of texture segregation which can be traced back to different stages of texture processing in human models of segregation performance.
Subtractive processes in light adaptation.	We measured the time course of light adaptation in foveal vision following the onset of an adapting background. Several adaptational steps in the low to mid photopic range were examined. The time course of multiplicative and subtractive components of the adaptation were extracted from the data. Unlike previous findings there were no subtractive changes for several hundred milliseconds following light onset, and the process took 10-15 sec to reach steady state. It seems likely that the fast component previously observed results from effectively instantaneous center-surround antagonism, and that our measurements reflect a second subtractive process involving the slow loss of the d.c. signal over time.
Response characteristics of tooth pulp-driven postsynaptic neurons in the spinal trigeminal subnucleus oralis of the cat.	Neuronal activity in the spinal trigeminal subnucleus oralis in response to electrical tooth stimulation was recorded in the anaesthetized cat in order to compare the electrophysiological characteristics of the oralis neurons with those of subnucleus caudalis and interpolaris neurons recorded in previous studies. The most sensitive oralis neurons had lower thresholds and shorter latencies than the most sensitive caudalis and interpolaris neurons. The thresholds of the oralis neurons were lower and their strength-duration curves flatter than those depicting liminal dental pain in man but similar to those depicting liminal jaw reflexes in the cat. Noxious conditioning stimulus elevated the threshold of only 1 of 10 neurons tested. The converging input from the skin and oral mucosa was from low-threshold mechanoreceptors. The results indicate that the response properties of the subnucleus oralis neurons differ significantly from those of other spinal subnuclei. Human pain thresholds cannot be explained by the liminal response properties of oralis neurons. These neurons might be important in the mediation of liminal reflex events evoked by dental stimuli.
The sensational transverse rectus abdominis musculocutaneous (TRAM) flap: return of sensibility after TRAM breast reconstruction.	Normal breast sensation was objectively quantitated with a biothesiometer, Semmes-Weinstein monofilaments, and two-point discrimination in 10 patients. Ten patients, 2 to 7 years after pedicled transverse rectus abdominis musculocutaneous flap (TRAM) breast reconstruction, were tested in a similar manner. The majority of these patients were found to have recorded measurable sensibility in the TRAM reconstruction. Recovered sensation was best in the medial and superior quadrants and improved with time. Although sensibility was present, it was still significantly different from normal sensory thresholds. A method to improve sensation by intercostal nerve repair is described. Three patients who have undergone this reconstruction have better sensibility in the reinnervated breast compared with the control breast. Sensory reeducation programs may also improve subsequent sensibility return.
Experimental pain in human temporal muscle induced by hypertonic saline, potassium and acidity.	The study was aimed at developing a reference model for experimental pain and tenderness in the human temporal muscle by the local injection of hypertonic saline, potassium chloride and acidic phosphate buffer, using isotonic saline as control. The design was randomized and double-blind. Twenty healthy subjects had 0.2 ml test solution injected into one temporal muscle and saline into the other. Following each injection, pain was rated on a 10-point ordinal scale and pressure-pain thresholds were measured every minute for 10 min by a pressure algometer. Hypertonic saline (n = 11) and potassium chloride (n = 12) induced significantly more pain than isotonic saline (ANOVA, p less than 0.0001). Compared to control injections, hypertonic saline and potassium chloride induced a significant reduction in pressure-pain threshold (ANOVA, p less than 0.0001 and p less than 0.05). Forty-eight percent of the injections led to the referral of pain most often to the jaws. A positive correlation between the relative occurrence of referred pain and pain intensity was observed (p less than 0.001) as was a negative correlation between the decrease in pressure-pain threshold and pain intensity (p less than 0.05).
The response of neurons in areas V1 and MT of the alert rhesus monkey to moving random dot patterns.	We studied the response of single units to moving random dot patterns in areas V1 and MT of the alert macaque monkey. Most cells could be driven by such patterns; however, many cells in V1 did not give a consistent response but fired at a particular point during stimulus presentation. Thus different dot patterns can produce a markedly different response at any particular time, though the time averaged response is similar. A comparison of the directionality of cells in both V1 and MT using random dot patterns shows the cells of MT to be far more directional. In addition our estimates of the percentage of directional cells in both areas are consistent with previous reports using other stimuli. However, we failed to find a bimodality of directionality in V1 which has been reported in some other studies. The variance associated with response was determined for individual cells. In both areas the variance was found to be approximately equal to the mean response, indicating little difference between extrastriate and striate cortex. These estimates are in broad agreement (though the variance appears a little lower) with those of V1 cells of the anesthetized cat. The response of MT cells was simulated on a computer from the estimates derived from the single unit recordings. While the direction tuning of MT cells is quite wide (mean half-width at half-height approximately 50 degrees) it is shown that the cells can reliably discriminate much smaller changes in direction, and the performance of the cells with the smallest discriminanda were comparable to thresholds measured with human subjects using the same stimuli (approximately 1.1 degrees). Minimum discriminanda for individual cells occurred not at the preferred direction, that is, the peak of their tuning curves, but rather on the steep flanks of their tuning curves. This result suggests that the cells which may mediate the discrimination of motion direction may not be the cells most sensitive to that direction.
Visual factors in sound localization in mammals.	The ability of mammals to localize sound varies widely among species. During the past decade, evidence has accumulated that this variation cannot be accounted for simply on the basis of the availability of the physical cues for locus. Evidence is presented that a major factor in sound localization is the need to direct the field of best vision to a sound source for further scrutiny. Thus, species with broad fields of best vision (such as visual streaks) require less accurate information regarding the location of a sound source than do species with very narrow fields of best vision (such as foveae). To support this suggestion, data are reported for the width of the field of best vision in the form of retinal ganglion cell isodensity contours for thirteen species of mammals. The possible contribution of other factors including binocular fields, visual acuity, and the degree to which a species is predatory in lifestyle, is also examined.
Sensory irritation. Relation to indoor air pollution.	All mucosae of the body possess chemical sensitivity provided by the CCS. Airborne chemicals can stimulate the CCS through the ocular, nasal, and respiratory mucosae, evoking different pungent sensations, for example, stinging, irritation, burning, piquancy, prickling, freshness, and tingling. Pungent sensations elicited in the nose differ from odor sensations in various characteristics. They are achieved at considerably higher concentrations than those necessary to elicit odor, but they increase with the concentration of the stimulus in a steeper fashion than odor. Pungent sensations from mixtures of compounds show a higher degree of addition--relative to the pungency of the individual components--than that of odor sensations. Pungency is more resistant to adaptation than odor, and, unlike it, displays considerable temporal integration with continuous stimulation. Measurement of a reflex, transitory apnea produced upon inhalation of pungent chemicals holds promise as an objective indicator of the functional status of the CCS. Results from the measurement of this reflex have agreed quantitatively with sensory data in a number of studies, and have shown higher common chemical sensitivity in nonsmokers (compared to smokers), in females (compared to males), and in young adults (compared to the elderly). Research issues mentioned here include the following: 1. We can rarely validate the symptoms putatively caused by indoor air pollution objectively. Without such means, we will always have the potential problem of overreporting and embellishment. Although one person may seem more sensitive than another, the difference may lie in a greater proclivity to complain. 2. Studies of anosmic persons offer a simple means to understand the functional characteristics of the nasal CCS. Studies of chemical series in such subjects should eventually allow construction of quantitative structure-activity models for human pungency perception. The human data can be compared with relevant animal data when possible. 3. The rules of additivity of pungency in mixtures need explication. Regarding the possible role of VOCs in the creation of irritation, we need to ask whether subthreshold levels add up or even amplify each other to produce noticeable irritation. Do repetitive or continuous exposures to subthreshold concentrations increase sensitivity to those substances, so that they evoke pungency when they otherwise would not? Do the various mucose--ocular, nasal, throat--differ in their sensitivity? 4. Modulation of CCS sensitivity by long-term and short-term inhalation of various agents (for example, environmental tobacco smoke) would seem a suitable topic for further research.
Physiological correlates of imagery-induced orgasm in women.	Orgasm has been reported to occur in response to imagery in the absence of any physical stimulation. This study was undertaken to ascertain whether the subjective report of imagery-induced orgasm is accompanied by physiological and perceptual events that are characteristic of genitally stimulated orgasm. Subjects were women who claimed that they could experience orgasm from imagery alone. Orgasm from self-induced imagery or genital self-stimulation generated significant increases in systolic blood pressure, heart rate, pupil diameter, pain detection threshold, and pain tolerance threshold over resting control conditions. These findings provide evidence that orgasm from self-induced imagery and genital self-stimulation can each produce significant and substantial net sympathetic activation and concomitant significant increases in pain thresholds. The increases in the self-induced imagery orgasm condition were comparable in magnitude to those in the genital self-stimulation-produced orgasm condition. On this basis we state that physical genital stimulation is evidently not necessary to produce a state that is reported to be an orgasm and that a reassessment of the nature of orgasm is warranted.
Modulation by peripheral conditioning stimuli of the responses of trigeminal brain stem neurones and of the jaw opening reflex to tooth pulp stimulation in chronically prepared, anaesthetized cats.	The effects of peripheral conditioning stimuli on the thresholds of the jaw opening reflex (JOR) and of trigeminal brain stem neurones to tooth pulp stimulation were examined in chronically prepared, anaesthetized cats. High intensity electrical conditioning stimuli applied to the ipsilateral forepaw produced an increase in the thresholds of both responses, with the JOR thresholds being elevated significantly more, and remaining elevated for significantly longer, than those of the neurones. These findings suggest that the elevation of the JOR cannot be explained just by inhibitory effects on the brain stem neurones.
Effects of stimulus intensity on posterior tibial nerve somatosensory evoked potentials.	Relationships between stimulus intensity and peak latencies and amplitudes in posterior tibial nerve somatosensory evoked potential patterns were evaluated in ten healthy subjects. Eight intermediate latency peaks between 30 and 125 milliseconds (ms) after stimulus onset and seven amplitudes were analyzed. In general, there was a decrease in latency with each increase in stimulus intensity over a five step intensity range between 5 and 19 milliamps (mA) for most peaks. Similarly, increases in amplitudes generally occurred with increases in stimulus intensity for most peaks. Later peaks N105 and P115 as well as amplitudes P90-N105 and N105-P115 were least sensitive to stimulus intensity changes. The greatest changes in peak latency and amplitude occurred as stimulus intensity was increased from 7 to 11 mA. Beyond 11 mA relatively little change was observed in either peak latencies or amplitudes. Under anesthesia, by contrast, there was no stimulus intensity-peak latency interaction and beyond 11 mA there were decreases in amplitudes. Possible reasons for these findings are discussed.
Mechanisms of pain relief by vibration and movement.	Mechanisms of pain relief induced by vibration and movement were investigated. A CO2 laser beam, which is useful for pure nociceptive stimulation, was used for recording pain-related somatosensory evoked potentials (pain SEPs) and for measuring pain threshold and reaction time (RT). Concurrently applied vibratory stimuli to and active movements of the fingers significantly reduced and prolonged pain SEPs, increased pain threshold, and prolonged RT, indicating that an increase in the inhibitory mechanisms of painful feeling was induced by the concurrently adopted sensory inputs mediated by large myelinated fibres. In contrast, continuous cooling enhanced pain SEPs and decreased pain threshold, probably due to the spatial summation of two kinds of nociceptive impulses mediated by the same pathways. The results of this investigation throw light on the mechanisms of the alleviation of pain by vibration and movement.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation in pontine infarction: correlation to degree of paresis.	Transcranial magnetic stimulation was performed in 20 patients with pontine infarction who had initially some degree of hemiparesis. Only patients with a well defined lesion on magnetic resonance imaging that was appropriate for the neurological signs were included. Recordings were made from the abductor pollicis brevis muscle (APB) bilaterally. The degree of hand paresis was estimated clinically and related to the following parameters: central motor conduction time (CMCT), interside latency difference of total latency, and amplitude ratio of affected to unaffected side. Increasing degree of paresis was associated with increasing latency parameters and decreasing amplitude ratio. In the four patients with severe paresis a low amplitude response could be evoked and CMCT was delayed by up to 10 ms. When the paresis had resolved at the time of transcranial magnetic stimulation CMCT was normal. However, amplitude ratio was less than 100% in all but one patient, with most of the values ranging between 40% and 60%, which indicates a subclinical pyramidal tract lesion. Median nerve sensory evoked potentials (SEP) and related interside latency difference to amplitude ratio N20/P25 were also recorded. In contrast to TCMS, decreased amplitude ratio of SEP was not associated with delayed latency. Clinically, the mild degree of and good recovery from paresis in ventral pontine infarction was remarkable.
Variations in hyperacuity performance with age.	The term hyperacuity has been applied to a group of stimuli which produce spatial thresholds smaller than those expected given the relatively large receptor spacing and the retinal image quality of the human eye. It is not yet firmly established whether hyperacuity performance declines with increasing age in the same way as most other measures of visual ability. This is perhaps due to the use of varying task configurations and criterion-dependent psychophysical techniques. The present study examines age-related performance in three different hyperacuity tasks using a criterion independent forced-choice method. Both displacement and bisection thresholds were found to increase with age, but there was no significant change in vernier acuity. This indicates that age has a differential effect on thresholds for various hyperacuities depending upon the task requirements. No significant age-related trend was observed in hyperacuity bias, which represents the difference between subjective and true physical alignment.
The influence of stimulus luminance and contrast on hyperacuity thresholds for oscillatory movement.	Hyperacuity thresholds for oscillatory movement were determined under conditions of decreased contrast and decreased luminance. Responses were found to be resistant to contrast reduction down to 15%; below this level thresholds increased. The contrast response function is thus similar to that of the magnocellular channel of the visual system. Systematic reduction in luminance caused a corresponding rise in thresholds. It is suggested that this effect is due to undersampling of the retinal image as a result of a lowered quantal absorption and an increase in critical duration of temporal integration at lower levels of luminance.
Regional variations in binocular summation across the visual field.	Binocular summation for a contrast detection task was measured as a function of eccentricity and target size along the horizontal and vertical meridians for ten young normal subjects. Binocular summation at the fovea was of the order of 1.4 for all target sizes, although there was some intersubject variation. Binocular summation was highest along the vertical meridian. With increasing eccentricity from the fovea, binocular summation for target size I (0.108 degrees projected diameter) decreased, remained relatively constant for target size III (0.431 degrees projected diameter) and increased with increasing eccentricity from the fovea for target size V (1.724 degrees projected diameter). For target sizes I and III, binocular summation was present only when interocular differences in sensitivity were under 5 dB, for target size V this relationship did not hold. Influences such as stimulation of corresponding retinal points and cortical representation are considered.
Input-output relation of the somatosensory system for mechanical air-puff stimulation of the index finger in man.	This study examined input-output relation of the somatosensory system in response to mechanical air-puff stimuli applied to the volar aspect of the tip of the index finger. Compound sensory nerve action potentials (SNAPs) from the median nerve at the wrist and cerebral somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) were simultaneously recorded at six levels of stimulus intensity above threshold. Using the time-integral of the SNAPs and SEPs as measures of peripheral and central neural activity, a strongly accelerating power function with an exponent of 1.35 was found to describe peripheral neural function, while central neural function was described by a negatively accelerating function with a power exponent of 0.50, suggesting suppression of SEPs by recruitment of units with increasing stimulus intensity. It was concluded that input-output relation of the somatosensory system can be described by a decelerating power function with the exponent of 0.37.
Provocative sensory testing in carpal tunnel syndrome.	This study reports the relationship between three clinical tests in the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome and the stages of nerve compression. Assessments of 158 patients with carpal tunnel syndrome were reviewed retrospectively. 77% of patients had at least one of the clinical signs present. The incidence of positive pressure-provocative and Phalen's tests were similar and more likely to occur in combination than separately. Tinel's sign was more likely to be positive in the later stages of nerve compression. Our results suggest that the presence or absence of a provocative test is dependent upon the severity of the nerve compression.
Responsiveness to laboratory pain in women as a function of age and childbirth pain experience.	Pain responsiveness was investigated experimentally as a function of age and childbirth pain experience. Sensitivity to cold pressor-induced pain was assessed through threshold, tolerance, and visual analog pain ratings. It was hypothesized that childbirth pain experience would mostly modify experimental pain judgment, in accordance with the adaptation-levels model. That is, childbirth pain would be used as an "anchor" in evaluating other painful events. Fifteen parous women were compared to 12 nulliparous women of the same age (mean age: 35 years) as well as to 15 nulliparous younger women (mean age: 24 years). This comparison was undertaken in order to distinguish the effects of age, which was found to correlate with pain threshold. Analysis of variance comparing the three groups of women was performed on each of the three cold pressor measures. A significant effect was found for pain threshold. Multiple comparisons indicated that parous women had a higher pain threshold than both groups of nulliparous women which did not differ from one another. Thus, painful childbirth experience is sufficient to raise cold pressor pain threshold. This finding has never before been reported in the pain literature. It is consistent with anecdotal reports from parous women who, when providing cold pressor pain judgments, say that "nothing compares to labor pain."
Cephalic muscle tenderness and pressure pain threshold in a general population.	Tenderness and pain thresholds in pericranial muscles were studied in a general population. A random sample of 1000 adults aged 25-64 years was drawn as part of the Glostrup Population Studies, and 740 adults were examined. This study was part of a multifacetted, epidemiological study of different headache disorders according to the new headache classification. Manual palpation and pressure pain threshold with an electronic pressure algometer were performed by observers blinded to other information such as the person's history of headache, previous illness and mental state. The muscles most commonly tender to manual palpation were the lateral pterygoid (55%), the trapezius (52%), and the sternocleido-mastoid muscles (51%). Females were more tender than men in all the muscles examined by manual palpation. In total, the young age group was more tender than the old age group (P = 0.03). Pressure pain thresholds on temporal muscles showed lower thresholds in women than in men (P less than 10(-3)), and in the total population thresholds increased with age (P less than 0.05). No side-to-side difference in tenderness by manual palpation was found, while the right side showed increased pain thresholds in right-handed individuals (P less than 10(-4)). No side-to-side difference was found in left-handed persons. This study provides data about the normal population and forms the necessary basis for evaluating the importance of muscle tenderness in headache subjects and other selected groups.
Quantitative sensory tests in patients with neuralgia 11 to 25 years after injury.	In a previous study quantitative sensory tests were used to characterize the symptoms in patients with post-traumatic neuralgia in the hand. Two types of pain syndromes were identified, sympathetically maintained pain (SMP), and sympathetically independent pain (SIP). These two syndromes had different sensory profiles with regard to temperature discrimination and cold and heat pain thresholds. The aim of the present study was to investigate the development of symptoms 10 years later. Eighteen previously investigated patients were contacted and all answered questions concerning their symptoms. Of these, two SIP and eight SMP patients agreed to undergo quantitative sensory testing. The outcome of these tests and the patients' own reports indicated that patients with SMP, who were not repeatedly treated with sympathetic blocks, did not show any remarkable spontaneous improvement of symptoms over a decade. The SMP patients still exhibited their characteristic sensory profile with moderate impairment of temperature discrimination and allodynia to cold, heat and vibratory stimuli. However, some changes with time were observed with respect to warm-cold difference limen and vibration allodynia. Comparison with data obtained from an age-matched group of healthy individuals indicated that these changes were due to age-related factors.
Chronic pain-related syndrome in rats after ischemic spinal cord lesion: a possible animal model for pain in patients with spinal cord injury.	We examined a pain-related syndrome, which includes mechanical allodynia and autotomy, in rats after ischemic spinal cord injury photochemically induced by laser irradiation for 5-20 min. This procedure results in an acute allodynia-like phenomenon which lasts for several days and is possibly related to dysfunction of the GABAB system in the spinal cord. In some animals this is followed by a chronic allodynia-like symptom with an onset varying between 1 week and 1.5 months after injury, expressed as a clearly painful reaction to light pressure applied to a skin area at or near the dermatome of the injured spinal segments. In the majority of rats the allodynia persists over several months, in some cases accompanied by autotomy of the hind paws. Pharmacological studies indicated that the allodynia in the majority of rats could be relieved by systemic tocainide (75 mg/kg). Morphine was only effective at a sedative dose (5 mg/kg). The allodynia was not relieved by baclofen, muscimol, clonidine or carbamazepine. Low-dose systemic pentobarbital (5 mg/kg) had a slight beneficial effect. Guanethidine (20 mg/kg, s.c.) did not abolish the allodynia in most of the rats. Histological examination revealed massive damage in the spinal cord. The dorsal roots of the irradiated segments were also injured. No morphological abnormalities were seen in the dorsal root ganglia. The mechanism that may account for this chronic pain-related syndrome in spinally injured rats probably involves abnormalities in the central nervous system. The allodynia seen in chronic spinally injured rats was similar to some painful symptoms in patients after spinal cord injury or stroke. It is suggested that the chronic allodynia-like phenomenon may represent an animal model for studying the mechanisms of chronic central pain.
Comparison between monkey and human visual fields using a personal computer system.	To use monkeys as models for eye diseases that may lead to blindness, we need to develop a method to precisely measure its visual field and to understand similarities and differences in visual field properties between monkeys and humans. The visual field of monkey was not measured precisely although the necessity. We established a new system with personal computers for precise measurement of the monkey visual field. Four monkeys and three humans served as subjects. The luminance-contrast sensitivity of the central 24 degrees field was measured while the subject was fixating a small spot. During the measurement, we continuously recorded the eye position, and discarded the data when fixation was broken. Reliability indices demonstrated high and stable behavioral performance by both monkeys and humans. The luminance-contrast sensitivity was highest around the fovea, and declined as eccentricity increased. The blind spot was clearly detected 15 degrees temporally. The overall sensitivity was higher in humans than in monkeys and the sensitivity dropped more sharply in the periphery in monkeys than in humans. We recommend this system as a convenient and reliable way to measure visual functions in monkeys in basic ophthalmologic research or in assessment of the drug effects on the visual field.
Pediatric FEESST: fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing with sensory testing.	Fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing (FEES) was developed as an adjunct to the videofluoroscopic swallowing study and clinical examination of swallowing function in the adult. The sensory testing aspect of fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing with sensory testing (FEESST) utilizes an air pulse stimulus of mechanoreceptors within the larynx. The study can be performed safely in children as young as premature infants and in adults. Adequate levels of cooperation can be obtained in nearly all children requiring FEESST. No cases of laryngospasm or respiratory compromise have been encountered. FEESST was initially applied to patients with dysphagia. It is now used in the study of the effects of gastroesophageal reflux on the larynx and swallowing function. The extent of pooled secretions in the hypopharynx can be used as a surrogate measure of laryngopharyngeal sensory testing. When patients managed by FEESST were compared with patients managed by videofluoroscopic swallow studies, there were no statistical differences in the rates of pneumonia or pneumonia-free interval. A learning curve is present for the operator, but with basic endoscopic skills, FEESST is a skill within the scope of practice of most pediatric endoscopists.
Acute ethanol effects on sensory/motor function in baboons with a history of chronic ethanol ingestion.	Baboons with a history of chronic, daily ethanol ingestion were subsequently studied under conditions that assessed the effects of acute oral self-administration of ethanol on auditory and visual threshold functions and reaction times. During the post-chronic experiment reported herein, the animals consumed specific amounts of ethanol twice weekly (0.1, 0.32, 1.0 or 1.3 g/kg), following which they immediately performed psychophysical tests designed to assess ethanol's effects on sensory thresholds and reaction times. Clear, dose-related increases in reaction times were observed following ethanol doses greater than 0.32 g/kg. Trends within individual threshold functions were consistent with systematic changes in auditory and visual threshold sensitivities of 1-3 dB at the high ethanol doses. Reaction time increases ranged from 25 to 180 ms above baseline levels at the highest dose (a 15% average increase). These general findings however, were in contrast to data obtained in the same animals under conditions of daily, chronic ethanol administration which characteristically showed greater sensory/motor effects of up to twice the magnitude of those observed with single doses.
The influence of motion coherence manipulations on the synchronization level of a perception-action task.	The present experiment was conducted to examine the integration of the motion coherence paradigm in a synchronization task. Random-dot kinematograms were used to generate a pattern of oscillating dots representing four different coherence levels (10%, 30%, 50% and 100%) and one target-alone condition. The participants had to synchronize their arm with the coherently moving dots according to two different synchronization modes (in-phase and anti-phase). The results revealed a substantial performance decline when the target/noise ratio dropped under the critical threshold situated around the 30% coherence level, albeit independent of the synchronization mode. In general, these findings highlighted the impact of the perception of motion based on the level of motion coherence in the visual signal on the synchronization behavior in a perception-action setting.
Human cortical responses to contrast modulations of visual noise.	We studied visual evoked potentials (VEPs) elicited by second-order contrast modulations of binary dynamic noise and first-order luminance modulations. Using a 3-point Laplacian operator centred on Oz, we found that contrast modulations of both low and higher spatial frequencies elicited a negative component whose latency was about 200 ms. The latency of this component was significantly longer than that of the early Laplacian components to first-order luminance modulations. These findings could be due to slower first-stage linear filters and additional processing stages of the second-order pathway. The topographical analysis of scalp recorded VEPs to central and half-field stimulation has suggested that the responses to second-order patterns are likely to be generated by neuronal structures within the primary visual cortex which may have inputs from extrastriate neurons via feedback connections.
Configural masking of faces: evidence for high-level interactions in face perception.	The perception of a stimulus can be impaired when presented in the context of a masking pattern. To determine the timing and the nature of face processing, the effect of various masks on the discriminability of faces was investigated. Results reveal a strong configural effect: the magnitude of masking depends on the similarity between mask and target. Masking is absent for non-face masks (noise, houses), modest for scrambled and inverted faces and strongest for upright faces, even when they differ in size, gender or viewpoint from the targets. This suggests an extra-striate location for the masking (possibly FFA). Reduced but significant masking for isolated face parts (internal features or head shape) is consistent with holistic computations in face perception. The duration over which a face mask can impair face discrimination (130 ms) is markedly longer than previously assumed and is sufficient for iterative and feedback computations to be part of face processing.
The relation between resolution measurements and numbers of retinal ganglion cells in the same human subjects.	Limiting factors of resolution have previously only been investigated by using resolution data and retinal ganglion cell spacing data from different individuals. We report on our unique opportunity to study the intra-individual relationship in three human subjects between retinal ganglion cell separations and resolution thresholds, measured with high-pass resolution perimetry. Our data show that resolution is directly proportional to half the midget population, in accordance with the hypothesis that a dichotomous midget ON/OFF population mediates resolution.
Investigation of the primary visual cortex using short-interval paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS).	Previous studies using short-interval paired-pulse TMS have provided valuable insights into physiology of human motor cortex. Depending on the interstimulus interval (ISI) between the two pulses intra-cortical facilitation (ICF) or intra-cortical inhibition (ICI) can be observed. Similar patterns of inhibition and facilitation have also been demonstrated in prefrontal and parietal cortices. In order to prove whether principles that govern cortical excitability in the motor system also extend to the visual system and to further characterize possible neural correlates of phosphene generation, we applied short-interval paired-pulse TMS to the occipital cortex. In addition, we examined the effect of different coil orientations on perception of phosphenes induced by paired-pulse TMS. In all of 10 healthy subjects, a general facilitation of phosphene perception could be observed for interstimulus intervals of 2-12 ms (conditioning stimulus (CS) 90% and test stimulus (TS) 100% of subject's phosphene threshold) compared to TS alone. With CS intensity decreasing to 80% or less, the effect diminished. No significant changes occurred when TS intensity was increased to 110%. Phosphene perception was enhanced with an induced current direction from lateral to medial at an ISI of 12 ms. Inhibition was not observed in any condition. Our results indicate that the mechanisms underlying phosphene induction in the visual cortex are different from those underlying intracortical inhibition and facilitation in the motor cortex.
Determination of reference intervals for vibratory perception thresholds of the lower extremities in normal subjects.	The assessment of vibratory perception thresholds (VPTs) is important for evaluating human somatosensory functions and provides new aspects in clinical practice and research. However, there has been little information concerning determinants of the VPT in normal individuals, and there has been no investigation to determine the reference intervals for the lower extremities by vibrometers using appropriate statistical analysis. We determined reference intervals for the VPT in lower extremities of 377 healthy subjects (241 males, 136 females; ages 11-74 years) using Suzuki-Matsuoka vibrometer-5 according to the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards guidelines. The VPT was measured at 12 points: ulnar styloids, patellae, medial and lateral malleoli and the tip of the great toes, dorsal aspect of the distal phalanx of the fifth toes. The effects of age, sex, height, weight, alcohol consumption, and smoking on the VPTs were also investigated. The VPTs of normal subjects increased significantly with age. The difference between the two sides was negligible for determining reference intervals of the VPT. The average VPT was higher in men than in women at the lateral malleolus, the great toe, the patella, and the ulnar styloid but not significantly different at the fifth toe or the medial malleolus. There were no significant differences in the VPTs among the four sites of the foot. The reference interval for the VPT of the lower extremity is less than 13 x 10(-2) G. The influence of body mass index, smoking, and alcohol consumption on the VPT was not significant. We provide the reference interval for the VPT of lower extremities in normal subjects. This information can serve as a basis for future clinical applications of VPT measurements.
Sound lateralization test in adolescent blind individuals.	Blind individuals require to compensate for the lack of visual information by other sensory inputs. In particular, auditory inputs are crucial to such individuals. To investigate whether blind individuals localize sound in space better than sighted individuals, we tested the auditory ability of adolescent blind individuals using a sound lateralization method. The interaural time difference discrimination thresholds of blind individuals were statistically significantly shorter than those of blind individuals with residual vision and controls. These findings suggest that blind individuals have better auditory spatial ability than individuals with visual cues; therefore, some perceptual compensation occurred in the former.
Electrophysiological assessment of human inferior alveolar nerve function.	This study describes a technique for making electrophysiological recordings from the inferior alveolar nerve of conscious human subjects. Recordings were obtained from 6 of 10 subjects, with consistent waveform latencies and amplitudes across subjects. The neurogenic origin of the responses was verified by blocking the nerve with 2% xylocaine, resulting in a loss of the waveform. The method is relatively simple, tolerated well by patients, and yields consistent electrophysiological information. Proposed refinements of the technique could result in a clinically useful method of objectively assessing the functional state of the inferior alveolar nerve following injury or surgical intervention.
The silent period threshold as a measure of corticospinal inhibition.	Corticomotor threshold is a clinically useful concept for defining motor cortex excitability using transcranial magnetic stimulation. Although the silent period duration can be a quantitative measure of corticospinal inhibitory function, its threshold value has not been formally determined. The authors studied 20 right-handed normal subjects and found that silent period threshold was a reproducible parameter that did not vary with age and sex. Its value was significantly lower with left-sided transcranial magnetic stimulation and right-hand recordings. The silent period threshold may be a novel parameter useful for future studies of cortical inhibitory function.
H-reflex and motor responses to acute ischemia in apparently healthy individuals.	The authors examined the effect of acute ischemia on peripheral nerve function in healthy subjects. It was hypothesized that acute ischemia would interfere with the ability of sensory and motor nerves to propagate an impulse. Twelve young, apparently healthy adults participated in the study. Soleus H-reflex and motor recruitment curves were determined for subjects during a control condition, after 5 minutes of ischemia by femoral artery occlusion, and after a 5-minute recovery. During ischemia, the stimulus intensity required to evoke an H-reflex or M-wave was reduced by 18.3% and 18.4%, respectively. Hmax/Mmax ratios were significantly reduced with acute ischemia (mean +/- standard error) 66.29% +/- 5.4% and 58.81% +/- 6.7% for control and ischemia, respectively, owing to a decrease in Hmax during acute ischemia with no change in Mmax. After ischemia, the Hmax/Mmax returned to control values, as did the M-threshold. However, although the H-threshold slightly recovered, it failed to return to control threshold after 5 minutes of recovery. The results suggest that acute ischemia decreases motor and H-reflex thresholds in healthy individuals with a longer lasting effect for the H-reflex. In addition, a decrease in Hmax/Mmax ratio was observed, suggesting that acute ischemia has differential effects on sensory nerve propagation and synapse transmission.
Projections of group II-activated midlumbar spinocerebellar tract neurones to the region of nucleus Z in the cat.	1. The possibility that dorsal horn spinocerebellar tract neurones in the midlumbar segments of the cat spinal cord which convey information from hindlimb group II muscle afferents to the cerebellum send collateral projections to medulla in the region of nucleus Z has been examined. 2. Dorsal horn spinocerebellar tract neurones (n = 25) were identified by antidromic activation from the cerebellum and by synaptic activation following stimulation of hindlimb group II afferents. A high proportion (21/25) were also antidromically activated by stimuli delivered to the region of nucleus Z. 3. The results of collision tests between antidromic spikes evoked from the cerebellum and the medulla and the fact that the latency for antidromic activation from nucleus Z at threshold was greater than from the cerebellum indicates that at least 11/25 (44%) of the neurones had collateral projections to the medulla. 4. Antidromic threshold mapping revealed that some of the neurones could be activated from parts of the dorsal medulla adjacent to, but not directly overlying, nucleus Z. The possible relevance of these data with regard to sensation of lower limb position and motion is discussed.
The great subjective back-referral debate: do neural responses increase during a train of stimuli?	Evidence is summarised for and against the hypothesis that potentiation or facilitation of neural responses during a train of threshold-level stimuli occurred in the experiments reported by . It is concluded that such potentiation probably did occur. Since the main arguments for the existence of subjective backwards referral () take it as given that such potentiation did not occur, it is further concluded that the main arguments for the existence of subjective backwards referral fail.
Brain stimulation and conscious experience: electrical stimulation of the cortical surface at a threshold current evokes sustained neuronal activity only after a prolonged latency.	Libet demonstrated that a substantial duration (>0.5-1.0 s) of direct electrical stimulation of the surface of a sensory cortex at a threshold or liminal current is required before a subject can experience a percept. Libet and his co-workers originally proposed that the result could be due either to spatial and temporal facilitation of the underlying neurons or additionally to a prolonged central processing time. However, over the next four decades, Libet chose to attribute the prolonged latency for evoking conscious experience to a prolonged central processing time. In my view, Libet has not provided any convincing evidence, either on the basis of his own past work or in his critique of my paper, for his hypothesis of a central processing time exceeding 0.5s before conscious experience emerges following direct electrical threshold stimulation of the cortical surface. I stand by my original results and conclusion that such prolonged latencies are largely the consequence of a dynamically increasing cortical facilitatory process that begins hundreds of milliseconds before there is a sustained neuronal activation. In some cases, the facilitatory process must overcome an initial stimulus-induced inhibition before neuronal firing commences.
Intermanual and intramanual tactual grating discrimination.	For intermanual tactual discrimination to occur, it is thought that neural signals have to cross the corpus callosum in some way at least once. In this note we address the question of whether this interhemispheric transfer affects grating discrimination in active touch. Eight right-handed participants made intermanual and intramanual tactual discriminations of sinusoidal gratings that had slightly different spatial periods. Intramanual discrimination included comparisons in which the gratings were felt with the same finger, as well as comparisons made with two different fingers of the same hand. During intermanual discrimination the gratings were felt with corresponding fingers or with non-corresponding fingers of different hands. We found that thresholds for intramanual conditions were lower than for intermanual conditions in active dynamic touch. This suggests that there is a component of the task that is unilateral, as might be mediated by a somatosensory region that has predominantly or exclusively contralateral receptive fields.
Oral prosthesis and chemosensory taste function. A review of the literature.	Denture use may have a negative impact on the ability to taste food, which in turn can jeopardize one's nutritional well-being. It is important that dentists understand the relationship.
The relationship between pain sensitivity and blood pressure in normotensives.	Hypertension has been found to be related to decreased sensitivity to painful stimuli. The current study explored whether this relationship extends into the normotensive range of blood pressures. Resting blood pressures were assessed in 60 male normotensives. Subjects then underwent a 1 min finger pressure pain stimulation trial. Pain ratings were inversely related to resting systolic blood pressure. This relationship was unrelated to emotional state or coping styles. Multiple regression analyses indicated that over one-third of the variance in pain ratings can be accounted for by resting blood pressure, coping style, and emotional state.
Copulatory analgesia in male rats ensues from arousal, motor activity, and genital stimulation: blockage by manipulation and restraint.	The effect of copulation on the vocalization threshold to tail shock (VTTS) was assessed in freely-moving, sexually experienced, Wistar male rats. Mean VTTS during the first copulation was 40% above the baseline values and slightly decreased during the first postejaculatory interval (PEI; 28% above baseline). VTTS mean values further increased during the second copulatory series (93% above baseline and 63% during the PEI). Testing at the same intervals in noncopulating rats did not induce analgesia. VTTS values also increased after the display of either one ejaculation (E), five intromissions (I), or five mounts (M), the analgesia persisting for at least 20 min. Analgesia following M was smaller and shorter than that observed after either I or E. Analgesia developed gradually during copulation since VTTS values after five I were significantly higher than those after one I. The incidence of vocalizations to suprathreshold shocks (STS, 20% above the VTTS) occurring during various phases of copulation was also studied to determine the onset and short-term fluctuations of copulatory analgesia. The proportion of STS inducing vocalizations decreased from 91% (mean of individual proportions) before copulation, to 24% during copulation, and to 25% during the PEI. A maximal reduction in the proportion of vocalizations to STS was found during the last third of copulation. Nearly all vocalizations to STS during copulation occurred when subjects were quiescent, while few or no vocalizations occurred when rats were engaged in sexual activity, i.e., during M, I, or penile grooming. In contrast to the above-mentioned data, no significant analgesia was observed using the tail-flick latency test (TFL) following either E, five I, or five M.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Analysis of the relationships between self-stimulation sniffing and brain-stimulation sniffing.	Determination of current thresholds for self-stimulation and electrically elicited sniffing from electrodes placed into lateral hypothalamic and ventral tegmental areas of rats revealed a tight correlative relationship between the two phenomena (r values of approx 0.9 at both sites). Thresholds for sniffing were never higher than those for self-stimulation, while approximately half the animals had higher self-stimulation than sniffing thresholds, suggesting that electrically elicited sniffing may better index the underlying psychobiological process that mediates self-stimulation. That both phenomena reflect the same basic process was suggested by the fact that 48 h of food deprivation consistently reduced the thresholds for both self-stimulation and sniffing, while 24 h of food deprivation had only marginal effects on both. The implications for understanding the nature of self-stimulation processes is discussed.
Truncal hypesthesia in patients with Minamata disease.	Patients with Minamata disease (methylmercury intoxication) usually suffer from the glove and stocking type hypesthesia in the extremities. Recently it is believed that the sensory disturbance of the disease may be a manifestation of the cerebral involvement. The aim of this study was to determine the pain threshold of their extremities and body by algesimeter. The results showed that a majority of the patients had elevated pain thresholds in the body and the extremities, and suggest that the pain impairment is not responsible for the peripheral nerve involvement.
Light perception and flicker perimetry. Effect of refractive error, artificial media opacities and pupillary size]	The influence of defocus, artificial media opacities and pupil size on perimetric thresholds in automated light sense and flicker perimetry was investigated in 20 eyes of 20 normal subjects. Thresholds were determined at 13 locations in the central visual field. Blurring the retinal image by a small defocus or by slight artificial media opacities causes a measurable reduction in light-difference sensitivity. Flicker fusion frequency, however, is much more resistant to degradation of the retinal image. Artificial pupil size has a similar effect on both light-difference sensitivity and flicker fusion frequency. The present study shows that perimetric methods using temporal threshold criteria should be more suitable for the detection of neuronal damage in the presence of factors disturbing the quality of the retinal image than methods using static criteria.
Absence of smooth motion perception in color vision.	We have tested the behavioral evidence for a separation of the processing of color contrast from motion in the human visual system. Two different aspects of motion perception are examined; the identification of the direction of movement of a chromatic grating and the perception of smooth motion. The results show that color vision is at no great disadvantage in the identification of direction of movement, since this can be done at color contrasts quite close to detection threshold over a wide range of spatial and temporal frequencies. However, we find that subjects can identify direction without having the genuine perception of smooth motion. Smooth motion perception is revealed to be highly impaired since it is detected only at very high color contrasts and over a narrow range of spatial temporal conditions.
Shape analysis and stereopsis for human depth perception.	The perceived relative depth of two isolated short parallel lines in the center of a scene is known to depend on the disparities and positions of other items in the scene, as well as on their own disparities. We demonstrate here that the shapes of these other items also contribute significantly to the perceived depth, and that these non-disparity influences on depth judgements may already be evident when only three dots are presented as stimuli. When two short vertical test lines are surrounded by a trapezoidal "picture frame", the perceived relative depth of the test lines is affected by the shape of the trapezoid as well as by the disparities assigned to its vertical parallel sides. The influence of the trapezoidal frame can be interpreted as an effect of perspective. The induced relative depth of the test lines is measured by recording the amount of "compensating disparity" that must be given to one of the lines in order for observers to judge the two test lines to be equidistant from the observer's viewing position. Surprisingly, for fixed disparities of the vertical edges of the surrounding picture frame, the induced depth of the test lines increases as the difference in the lengths of the vertical sides increases, regardless of whether the perspective interpretation of the difference in the lengths is consistent with or in conflict with the disparity-defined slant. Shape-related apparent depth changes are especially sensitive to the shape of the trapezoid if it is nearly rectangular, and are comparable in magnitude to those resulting from changes in disparity of the surrounding frame. When a pair of short vertical parallel test lines is presented alone, without a surrounding frame or any other items in the scene, excellent relative depth discrimination is displayed by most subjects. However, if the lines are replaced by squares, trapezoids, triangles, single horizontal lines, or other figures of about the same size as the original test lines, the slant discrimination threshold for these plane figures for nave observers become poorer by a factor of 20-100. By the use of a feedback signal, observers can be trained to use only disparity cues and ignore shape effects. Some observers have difficulty ignoring the shapes of some figures, the "difficult" figures being different for each observer. After training, the relative depth thresholds for most figures approach those of the original unconnected parallel test lines.
Spatial localization without visual references.	To explain the veridical percept of the spatial ordering of objects and the generation of eye movements to peripheral targets, Lotze (1885 Microcosmos. Edinburgh: T. & T. Clark) proposed that there is a position label (local sign) for each retinal element. To estimate the precision of local sign information, we measured absolute localization thresholds at various eccentricities in the nasal visual field, in the complete absence of visual references. To eliminate perception of the visual surround, observers viewed a large display screen through a neutral density filter (2.0 log unit) in a dark room. The fixation target was extinguished at various times (interstimulus intervals or ISIs) prior to the onset of the test stimulus. In general, our results show that localization thresholds are proportional to the target eccentricity at all ISIs. At each eccentricity, localization thresholds are elevated after the extinction of the visual reference compared to thresholds when the reference is present. However, relative to the referenced threshold, unreferenced thresholds are elevated by a greater proportion at smaller eccentricities than at larger eccentricities. Our threshold vs ISI data can be adequately modeled on the basis of an intrinsic positional uncertainty, which increases with eccentricity, and additive and multiplicative sources of noise. The additive noise appears to reflect primarily the increasing scatter in eye position when the fixation target is extinguished. Our model's estimate of intrinsic positional uncertainty in the isoeccentric direction appears to reflect primarily the intrinsic positional uncertainty of the peripheral retina (the local sign), being very similar to cumulative cone position uncertainty and to the spacing between ON-P beta ganglion cells. In the isoeccentric direction, the estimated precision of the local sign mechanism across eccentricities is slightly better than the precision of saccadic endpoints, suggesting that noise in the motor system must also contribute to the scatter of saccadic endpoints in the isoeccentric direction. Interestingly, in the radial direction, we find a surprising similarity in our observers' positional uncertainty and the precision of saccadic endpoints.
Spatial frequency mechanisms with short-wavelength-sensitive cone inputs.	We have estimated the minimum number and frequency tuning of spatial mechanisms with Short-Wavelength-Sensitive (SWS)-cone inputs. This was accomplished by isolating SWS cones with intense, long-wavelength (yellow) adaptation, and measuring threshold elevation functions for short-wavelength, spatially localized test stimuli masked by obliquely oriented, short-wavelength, cosine gratings. Peak spatial frequency of the cosine gratings and test stimuli varied from 0.25 to 2.83 cpd in 0.5 octave steps. Results derived in this manner demonstrate that SWS cones input to at least two orientation selective mechanisms with peak spatial frequencies of approx. 0.7 and 1.4 cpd, respectively. The frequency tuning of the isolated-SWS-cone, spatial frequency mechanisms resemble closely the lowest two mechanisms measured with luminance modulation (i.e. normal viewing conditions where all cones contribute to the response).
Spatial frequency selective mechanisms underlying the motion aftereffect.	The motion aftereffect (MAE) was used to study the spatial frequency selectivity of suprathreshold motion perception. Observers were adapted to drifting sine-wave gratings confined to a retinal eccentricity of approx. 4 deg. The magnitude of the subsequent MAE was measured while viewing a stationary sine-wave grating test surface of one of a number of spatial frequencies. The largest MAE was found when the spatial frequency of the test stimulus was the same as that of the adapting stimulus. This phenomenon held for spatial frequencies between 0.5 and 4 c/deg, and was robust with changes in contrast of either adapting or test gratings. However, at an adapting spatial frequency of 0.25 c/deg, the peak MAE was observed at 0.5 c/deg. Control experiments indicated that this peak shift was not the result of the reduced number of cycles in the stimulus, nor the temporal frequency. There was no measurable MAE at spatial frequencies lower than 0.25 c/deg. These results suggest the existence of a "lowest adaptable channel" for the motion aftereffect.
Reduction of foveal desensitization with blurred backgrounds.	Photopic spatial desensitization and sensitization (Westheimer) functions were measured with sharp edged and blurred edged backgrounds. Data show that for 6-min backgrounds, desensitization is reduced for test flashes presented against blurred backgrounds compared to test flashes presented against backgrounds with sharp edges. We suggest that the transients from edges of retinal images, caused by high frequency fixational eye movements, contribute to the mechanisms of spatial desensitization and sensitization; the effect of transients is reduced by blurring the backgrounds.
Noise and the absolute thresholds of cone and rod vision.	Literature data on light detection by cone and rod vision at absolute threshold are analysed in order (1) to decide whether the threshold performance of dark-adapted cone vision can, like that of rod vision, be consistently explained as limited by noise from a "dark light"; (2) to obtain comparable estimates of the dark noise and dark light of (foveal) cones and (peripheral) rods. The dark noise was estimated by a maximum-likelihood procedure from frequency-of-seeing data and compared with the dark light derived from increment-threshold functions. In both cone and rod vision, the estimated dark noise coincides with Poisson fluctuations of the estimated dark light if 17% (best estimate) of lambda max-quanta incident at the cornea produce excitations. At that fraction of quanta exciting, dark lights are equivalent to 112 isomerisations per sec in each foveal cone and 0.011 isomerisations per sec in each rod. It is concluded that (1) the threshold performance of dark-adapted cone as well as rod vision can be consistently described as noise-limited, but not by postulating a multi-quantum coincidence requirement for single receptors; (2) the underlying intrinsic activity in both the cone and the rod system is light-like as regards correspondence between noise effect and background adaptation effect. One possibility is that this activity is largely composed of events identical to the single-photon response, originating in the visual pigment, in cones as well as in rods.
Intraindividual variability of anorectal manometry parameters.	The present study investigates the intraindividual day-to-day variability of anorectal manometry parameters. Manometric studies were performed in twelve healthy volunteers on three different days. A low compliance capillary perfusion system was used. The values measured on day 1 and day 2, as well as those on day 2 and day 3, showed no significant (p greater than 0.05) differences for any parameter in Wilcoxon's test. Mean percentage of differences as a measure for intraindividual day-to-day variation was relatively low for anal resting (mean: 13.5%) and maximal squeeze (17.5%) pressure. However, it was high for the threshold volumes for minimal perception (71.8%) and urgency to defecate (38.5%) during rectal balloon distention as well as for the minimal volume required to abolish recovery of the rectoanal inhibitory reflex (41.2%). We conclude that anal resting pressure and maximal squeeze pressure both are the most stable anorectal manometry parameters in man, at least over a period of a few days.
Increase in cutaneous temperature induced by hypnotic suggestion of pain.	Eight patients with atopic eczema and six healthy subjects were given hypnotic suggestion to feel pain in the upper part of the back and in one case on the palm. An average local increase in skin temperature of 0.6 degrees C (detected by thermovision) occurred under this condition. For some patients cutaneous pain threshold was increased before the experiment by means of repetitive hypnotic suggestion of analgesia. These subjects reported feeling no pain subjectively, but the local change in skin temperature was equal in both cases. The results suggest a central mechanism induced by measuring changes in pain threshold in the skin, which changes are independent of local changes in blood flow.
Multiparametric changes in the receptive field of cortical auditory neurons induced by thalamic activation in the mouse.	The functional organization of the sensory cortex is constructed to process sensory information based on experience and learning. Importantly, it is plastic so that it can quickly adapt to environmental changes. Because the thalamus gates all ascending information, it is critical to understand how the thalamocortical system contributes to the plasticity of the sensory cortex. We show here that the neuronal receptive field (RF) in the auditory cortex faithfully tends toward the RF of the electrically stimulated auditory thalamic neurons. We characterized the RF of auditory neurons by measuring the best frequency, minimum threshold, bandwidth, RF area, and averaged response magnitude. All these parameters of the cortical RF showed robust changes toward the values of the parameters of the stimulated thalamic neuron following focal thalamic stimulation. Our data suggest that the thalamocortical system possesses intrinsic mechanisms that underlie the input specificity of learning-induced or experience-dependent cortical plasticity.
Cutaneous thermal thresholds in patients with painful burning feet.	Small nerve fibre sensory function was assessed by psychophysical estimates of cutaneous thermal thresholds in 30 patients who presented with the symptoms of painful burning feet. Thresholds were abnormal in 12 and normal in 18 patients although symptoms in the two groups were very similar. Various hypotheses for the mechanism of pain in small fibre neuropathy have been proposed previously and these are discussed, but the cause of symptoms in patients with normal thresholds, is unknown. The possibility exists that these patients have a neuropathic disorder which affects only those unmyelinated fibres involved with pain.
Scotopic and photopic visual thresholds and spatial and temporal discrimination evaluated by behavior of mice in a water maze.	Methods that allow specific manipulations of the mouse genome have made it possible to alter specific aspects of photoreceptor function within the mouse retina. Mice with photoreceptors that have altered photosensitivities and altered photoresponse kinetics are now available. Methods are needed that can show how those perturbations in photoreceptor response characteristics translate into perturbations in visual sensitivity and perception. We have adapted a previously described method to evaluate visual threshold, spatial discrimination and temporal discrimination in mice swimming in a water maze. In this report we describe the sensitivities of rod-mediated and cone-mediated vision using GNAT1-/-and GNAT2-/- mice. Cone-mediated vision is approximately 10,000 times less sensitive than rod-mediated vision in mice. We also demonstrate that mice can distinguish striped from solid objects in the water maze and that they can distinguish flickering from continuous illumination.
Tactile coactivation resets age-related decline of human tactile discrimination.	For young subjects, it is well-documented that training and practice improve sensorimotor performance. However, little is known about how the typically observed age-related decline of sensorimotor abilities can be ameliorated by sensory stimulation.
Intrahemispheric dysfunction in primary motor cortex without corpus callosum: a transcranial magnetic stimulation study.	The two human cerebral hemispheres are continuously interacting, through excitatory and inhibitory influences and one critical structure subserving this interhemispheric balance is the corpus callosum. Interhemispheric neurophysiological abnormalities and intrahemispheric behavioral impairments have been reported in individuals lacking the corpus callosum. The aim of this study was to examine intrahemispheric neurophysiological function in primary motor cortex devoid of callosal projections.
Chemesthesis from volatile organic compounds: Psychophysical and neural responses.	In Experiment 1, subjects sought to localize the nostril stimulated, left or right, in tests with nine esters (acetates, propionates, and butyrates) at concentrations meant to trigger chemesthesis (pungency, irritation). The task produced psychometric functions for chemesthetic detection unconfounded by olfactory sensations. The functions indicated a sharp transition from no detection to perfect detection, rather uniform across the esters, which themselves varied in potency by two log units. The correlation between the thresholds for the eight materials that yielded thresholds and predictions from a published linear free energy relationship (LFER) equaled 0.99. In Experiment 2, amplitude of the negative mucosal potential (NMP) was recorded from the septum. The resulting functions also increased with concentration sharply. Against a criterion amplitude of the NMP, thresholds measured in the first experiment (and predictions from the LFER) correlated 0.99. The NMP seems to offer an adequate objective measure of sensory irritation. The LFER, although effective predictively, could stand to have a parameter to anticipate that molecules beyond a certain size fail to trigger irritation. In the present case, a cut-off of chemesthetic potency occurred between butyl butyrate and hexyl butyrate for the group of subjects, with some variation of the boundary among individuals.
Effect of maturation of the magnitude of mechanosensitive and chemosensitive reflexes in the premature human esophagus.	To investigate the effect of esophageal mechanosensitive and chemosensitive stimulation on the magnitude and recruitment of peristaltic reflexes and upper esophageal sphincter (UES)-contractile reflex in premature infants.
The impact of wrist extension provocation on current perception thresholds in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome: a pilot study.	To determine whether current perception threshold (CPT) varied between subjects with and without carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) and whether positioning in wrist extension (reversed Phalen's test) was provocative.
Age and upper limb tension testing affects current perception thresholds.	Current perception threshold (CPT) testing was used to quantitatively measure the sensory response to upper limb tension testing (ULTT). The study addressed the ability of ULTT to tension the intended nerve, and the influence of age on CPT. Normal subjects (n=59) performed a randomized series of CPT tests at 5 and 2,000 Hz in a resting position and in a median-nerve bias position using the Neurometer. Results indicate that ULTT impacts CPT in normal subjects, with greater effects observed in the ulnar nerve (p<0.05) than for median nerve (NS). Age was a significant covariate for CPT (2,000 Hz, p=0.032; 5 Hz, p=0.034), and Pearson correlations indicated a weak but significant correlation of age with CPT. Age had a differential impact on CPT frequencies, suggesting differential impacts on nerve fibers, with a trend towards hypoesthesia at 2,000 Hz (r=0.10 to 0.30) and toward hyperesthesia at 5 Hz (r=-0.16 to -0.28). ULTT causes measurable effects in the sensory threshold of peripheral nerve, which are more pronounced with age; increased touch threshold and decreased pain thresholds can be expected. The specificity of nerve bias elicited by specific ULTT needs further exploration.
Brightness contrast inhibits color induction: evidence for a new kind of color theory.	A gray region can be made to look colored by a colored surround. This phenomenon, chromatic induction, depends on color differences around the boundary of the region. We performed experiments on chromatic induction with small, initially achromatic, targets on nine different colored surrounds ranging in color from blue to red. Using scaling of saturation as our measure of perceived color strength, we found that chromatic induction is at its maximum when the brightness contrast at the boundary between target and surroundings is minimal. This implies that the neural mechanism in the cerebral cortex that mediates the appearance of brightness at a boundary inhibits the activity of chromatic mechanisms at that same boundary. Observers matched the apparent brightness and luminance of each of the colored surrounds. For surround colors where brightness and luminance matches differ, brightness contrast, not luminance contrast, controls chromatic induction. These new findings, taken together with other evidence, require a new theory of color appearance that includes mutually inhibitory interactions between color and brightness mechanisms that are sensing color and brightness contrast at visual boundaries.
Encoding and decoding touch location in the leech CNS.	Spike times encode stimulus values in many sensory systems, but it is generally unknown whether such temporal variations are decoded (i.e., whether they influence downstream networks that control behavior). In the present study, we directly address this decoding problem by quantifying both sensory encoding and decoding in the leech. By mechanically stimulating the leech body wall while recording from mechanoreceptors, we show that pairs of leech sensory neurons with overlapping receptive fields encode touch location by their relative latencies, number of spikes, and instantaneous firing rates, with relative latency being the most accurate indicator of touch location. We then show that the relative latency and count are decoded by manipulating these variables in sensory neuron pairs while simultaneously monitoring the resulting behavior. Although both variables are important determinants of leech behavior, the decoding mechanisms are more sensitive to changes in relative spike count than changes in relative latency.
Temporal onset-order discrimination through the tactual sense: effects of frequency and site of stimulation.	This research extends the study of temporal resolution of the tactual sensory system through measurements of temporal-onset order discrimination for continuous tonal signals addressing (a) the effects of frequency separation of the two stimuli whose onset orders are to be discriminated and (b) the effects of redundant coding of frequency and site of stimulation on performance. Sinusoidal signals were presented either at two separate digits (thumb and index finger of the left hand) or at a single site of stimulation (left index finger) using a multifinger tactual stimulation system. Measurements were obtained using a one-interval two-alternative forced choice procedure in which each interval consisted of the random-order presentation of two different stimuli with roving values of amplitude and duration. Thresholds were estimated from psychometric functions of d' as a function of stimulus-onset asynchrony (SOA). On average, temporal onset-order thresholds were larger for one-finger conditions (mean SOA of 74.8 ms) than for two-finger conditions (mean SOA of 48.5 ms) and decreased as frequency separation increased, particularly for single-site presentation. Redundant coding of frequency and site of stimulation resulted in higher resolution by a factor of 1.5 compared to frequency alone and by a factor of 1.2 compared to site alone.
Visual response properties of retinal ganglion cells in the royal college of surgeons dystrophic rat.	Alterations in retinal ganglion cell response patterns were profiled in dystrophic Royal College of Surgeons (hereafter RCS) rats over the first 100 postnatal days as a baseline for retinal rescue and vision restoration strategies. This method enabled the evaluation of the extent to which postreceptoral neuronal attributes in degenerating retinas mirror inferred declines in photoreceptor function.
Stimulus waveform influences the efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation.	Optimising stimulus parameters is important in maximising the efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in treatment applications. RTMS over motor cortex has been reported as more effective in producing corticospinal inhibition when a monophasic rather than a biphasic stimulus waveform is used. However, non-optimal coil orientation and high intensities of monophasic rTMS may have influenced previous results.
Vernier threshold and the parallel visual pathways in bipolar disorder: a follow-up study.	Magnocellular (M) and parvocellular (P) visual pathways participate in the processing of low contrast and colors of objects, respectively. The aim of this study was to investigate M and P pathway functions in bipolar disorder during a depressive episode and after the amelioration of symptoms. Participants (17 patients with type I bipolar disorder and 20 matched healthy controls) received two vernier tasks. During the M pathway test, stimuli were dots with low luminance-contrast (5%), whereas during the P pathway test, isoluminant blue dots were presented against a yellow background. Participants were asked to detect the direction of the horizontal displacement of the dots (left or right). The assessment was performed during a depressive state and during a clinically improved state after 2 months. During the depressive state, the patients showed significantly impaired M and P pathway functions, whereas during the clinically improved state, their performance was better and was statistically indistinguishable from that of the controls. In conclusion, M and P pathways are impaired in depressed bipolar patients. This deficit is ameliorated along with clinical improvement. Further studies are necessary to separately assess cortical and precortical stages of information-processing, and to exclude the possibility of general motivational and attentional impairments.
Modulation of intracortical facilitatory circuits of the human primary motor cortex by digital nerve stimulation.	We investigated the effect of electrical digit stimulation on two different intracortical facilitatory phenomena. Paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimuli (TMS) with different conditioning stimulus (CS) intensities were applied over the primary motor cortex (M1). Electromyographic (EMG) recordings were made from the relaxed right abductor digiti minimi muscle (ADM). The effect of preceding sensory stimulation applied to the ipsilateral digit V on the conditioning magnetic stimulus was examined. Changing the CS intensity affected the influence of peripheral electrical stimulation on motor evoked potential (MEP) amplitudes evoked by paired pulse TMS. Inhibition induced by ipsilateral digit stimulation was strongest with the lowest CS intensity if MEP amplitudes were evoked by a subthreshold CS followed by a suprathreshold test stimulus (TS) at an interstimulus interval (ISI) of 10 ms. In contrast, inhibition induced by digit stimulation in a paired-pulse paradigm with a suprathreshold first and a subthreshold second stimulus at ISI of 1.5 ms was strongest with the highest CS intensity. These findings suggest that appropriately timed peripheral electrical stimuli differentially modulate facilitatory interactions in the primary motor cortex. They further support the hypothesis that intracortical facilitation (ICF) and short-interval intracortical facilitation (SICF) are evoked through different mechanisms.
Car following decisions under three visibility conditions and two speeds tested with a driving simulator.	The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration web site reports that rear-end collisions in the United States exceed 1.5 million per year, or approximately 23% of all vehicle crashes. Car following behavior and the decision-making habits of drivers seem fundamental to understanding how to avoid these rear-end crashes. The present research aimed to reveal factors that govern car following under conditions of reduced visibility. It employed a KQ-Vection high-fidelity driving simulator to measure the behavior of automobile drivers following a lead vehicle at 13.4 m/s (30 MPH) or 22.4 m/s (50 MPH) under three visibility conditions--clear or one of two densities of simulated fog. At the higher speed, fog conditions separated participants into a group that stayed within visible range of the lead car, even though the headway time violated the NHTSA recommendations for the speed involved, and another group that lagged beyond the visible range. Data were compared to the model of Van Winsum for car following (The human element in car following models. Transportation Research Part F 2, 1999). Contrast and image size measurements allowed comparison to a standard contrast sensitivity function and allowed estimation of the JND term in the Van Winsum model.
On-line psychophysical data acquisition and event-related fMRI protocol optimized for the investigation of brain activation in response to gustatory stimuli.	An experimental method for event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging that allows for the presentation of several chemosensory stimuli in the oral cavity during the same run, the collection of psychophysical measures (intensity or pleasantness) during the presentation of the stimuli, and the analysis of the data in an event-related fashion are described. The automatic pumps used to present taste stimuli allowed for multiple tastes to be delivered in small amounts under computer control. Psychophysical ratings of pleasantness or intensity were collected after each presentation of a taste stimulus and water, with the general labeled magnitude scale, using a joystick that controlled the movement of an arrow on the visual display. Performing these cognitive tasks required that the participant remained focused, and aided in the interpretation of the data collected. The perceived pleasantness differed across stimuli for all conditions; however, pleasantness ratings for the same stimulus displayed consistency, over the duration of the run and before each scan on separate days. Activation in response to sucrose and caffeine while the participant rated pleasantness was found in the insula, frontal operculum, rolandic operculum and orbitofrontal cortex which is consistent with previous taste fMRI studies.
Distinct mechanisms of form-from-motion perception in human extrastriate cortex.	The exquisite sensitivity of the human visual system to form-from-motion (FfM) cues is well documented. However, identifying the neural correlates of this sensitivity has proven difficult, particularly determining the respective contributions of different motion areas in extrastriate visual cortex. Here we measured visual FfM perception and more elementary visual motion (VM) perception in a group of 32 patients suffering from acute posterior brain damage, and performed MRI-based lesion analysis. Our results suggest that severe FfM perception deficits without an associated deficit of VM perception are due to damage to ventral occipito-temporal cortex (VOT), whereas associated deficits of FfM and VM perception are due to damage either in proximity to area MT+/V5 or an area including lateral occipital complex (LOC) and VOT. These data suggest the existence of at least three functionally and anatomically distinct regions in human visual cortex that process FfM signals.
Detection of Gabor patterns of different sizes, shapes, phases and eccentricities.	Contrast thresholds of vertical Gabor patterns were measured as a function of their eccentricity, size, shape, and phase using a 2AFC method. The patterns were 4 c/deg and they were presented for 90 or 240 ms. Log thresholds increase linearly with eccentricity at a mean rate of 0.47 dB/wavelength. For patterns centered on the fovea, thresholds decrease as the area of the pattern increases over the entire standard deviation range of 12 wavelengths. The TvA functions are concave up on log-log coordinates. For small patterns there is an interaction between shape and size that depends on phase. Threshold contrast energy is a U-shaped function of area with a minimum in the vicinity of 0.4 wavelength indicating detection by small receptive fields. Observers can discriminate among patterns of different sizes when the patterns are at threshold indicating that more than one mechanism is involved. The results are accounted for by a model in which patterns excite an array of slightly elongated receptive fields that are identical except that their sensitivity decreases exponentially with eccentricity. Excitation is raised to a power and then summed linearly across receptive fields to determine the threshold. The results are equally well described by an internal-noise-limited model. The TvA functions are insufficient to separately estimate the noise and the exponent of the power function. However, an experiment that shows that mixing sizes within the trial sequence has no effect on thresholds, suggests that the limiting noise does not increase with the number of mechanisms monitored.
Reversible myeloradiculopathy due to Mycoplasma pneumoniae.	A 22-year-old man presented with flaccid paraparesis and a thoracic sensory level in the context of a recent respiratory illness. Investigations established cerebrospinal pleocytosis with elevated protein, and subsequent serological testing confirmed raised antibody titres to Mycoplasma pneumoniae. Nerve conduction studies established that H-reflexes were prolonged and somatosensory evoked responses were delayed from the lower limbs bilaterally. Although imaging of the spinal cord revealed no abnormality, clinical and neurophysiological findings were consistent with a myeloradiculopathy. The patient was treated with pulse intravenous methylprednisone and underwent complete recovery over a 4-week period.
Treated amblyopes remain deficient in spatial vision: a contrast sensitivity and external noise study.	To evaluate residual spatial vision deficits in treated amblyopia, we recruited five clinically treated amblyopes (mean age=10.6 years). Contrast sensitivity functions (CSF) in both the previously amblyopic eyes (pAE; visual acuity=0.944+/-0.019 MAR) and fellow eyes (pFE; visual acuity=0.936+/-0.021 MAR) were measured using a standard psychophysical procedure for all the subjects. The results indicated that the treated amblyopes remained deficient in spatial vision, especially at high spatial frequencies, although their Snellen visual acuity had become normal in the pAEs. To identify the mechanisms underlying spatial vision deficits of treated amblyopes, threshold vs external noise contrast (TvC) functions--the signal contrast necessary for the subject to maintain a threshold performance level in varying amounts of external noise ("TV snow")--were measured in both eyes of four of the subjects in a sine-wave grating detection task at several spatial frequencies. Two mechanisms of amblyopia were identified: increased internal noise at low to medium spatial frequencies, and both increased internal noise and increased impact of external noise at high spatial frequencies. We suggest that, in addition to visual acuity, other tests of spatial vision (e.g., CSF, TvC) should be used to assess treatment outcomes of amblyopia therapies. Training in intermediate and high spatial frequencies may be necessary to fully recover spatial vision in amblyopia in addition to the occlusion therapy.
Defective temporal processing of sensory stimuli in DYT1 mutation carriers: a new endophenotype of dystonia?	DYT1 primary torsion dystonia is an autosomal dominant movement disorder due to a 3-bp GAG deletion in the TOR1A gene, which becomes manifest in only 30-40% of mutation carriers. Investigating the factors regulating this reduced penetrance might add new insight into the mechanisms underlying the disease. The pathophysiology of dystonia has been related to basal ganglia dysfunctions that lead to the most prominent motor symptoms. However, subclinical sensory deficits have also been reported, particularly in adult-onset focal dystonia. Sensory abnormalities in different forms of sporadic dystonia have been revealed by using a psychophysical method, namely, the temporal discrimination threshold (TDT), quantified as the shortest time interval at which the two stimuli are perceived as separate. Little or no information about the presence of sensory abnormalities in DYT1 gene manifesting and non-manifesting carriers is available. With the aim of disclosing possible associations between sensory deficits and the DYT1 mutation, we assessed TDTs of DYT1 manifesting patients (n = 9); DYT1 non-manifesting relatives (n = 11); non-carrier relatives (n = 9); external control subjects (n = 11). Pairs of tactile, visual or visuo-tactile stimuli were delivered in blocked, counterbalanced order. Intervals between stimuli increased from 0 to 400 ms (in 10 ms steps). On each trial, subjects had to report whether stimuli occurred simultaneously or asynchronously. We measured the first out of three consecutive inter-stimulus intervals at which subjects recognized the two stimuli as temporally separated (TDT) and the first of three consecutive intervals at which they also reported correctly which stimulus in the pair preceded (or followed) the other temporal order judgment (TOJ). Results showed higher tactile and visuo-tactile TDTs and TOJs in DYT1 carriers, both manifesting and non-manifesting, compared with non-carrier relatives and with external control subjects (for all comparisons, P < 0.039). This finding indicates that the DYT1 mutation determines subclinical sensory alterations, which could be disclosed by a psychophysical task. Moreover, these results have the notable implication that sensory deficits in dystonia are not a mere consequence of abnormal movements, but they may even occur before overt clinical manifestations, representing a subclinical phenotype in DYT1 mutation carriers.
Superadditive BOLD activation in superior temporal sulcus with threshold non-speech objects.	Evidence from neurophysiological studies has shown the superior temporal sulcus (STS) to be a site of audio-visual integration, with neuronal response to audio-visual stimuli exceeding the sum of independent responses to unisensory audio and visual stimuli. However, experimenters have yet to elicit superadditive (AV > A+V) blood oxygen-level dependent (BOLD) activation from STS in humans using non-speech objects. Other studies have found integration in the BOLD signal with objects, but only using less stringent criteria to define integration. Using video clips and sounds of hand held tools presented at psychophysical threshold, we were able to elicit BOLD activation to audio-visual objects that surpassed the sum of the BOLD activations to audio and visual stimuli presented independently. Our findings suggest that the properties of the BOLD signal do not limit our ability to detect and define sites of integration using stringent criteria.
Infant color vision: prediction of infants' spontaneous color preferences.	Infants show spontaneous looking preferences among isoluminant chromatic stimuli [Adams, R. J. (1987). An evaluation of color preferences in early infancy. Infant Behavior and Development, 10, 143-150; Bornstein, M. H. (1975). Qualities of color vision in infancy. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, 19 (3), 401-419.]. These differences in preference have often been called "hue" or "color" preferences, and attributed to differences in hue, but there are alternative explanations. Spontaneous preference variations remain after stimuli are equated for adult brightness, and thus cannot be attributed to adult-like brightness differences [Teller, D. Y., Civan, A., & Bronson-Castain, K. (2004). Infants' spontaneous color preferences are not due to adult-like brightness variations. Visual Neuroscience, 21 (3), 397-401]. In the present paper, we address three more alternative explanations: colorimetric purity; infant detection thresholds; and adult-like variations in saturation. Three experiments were conducted. In Experiment 1 we measured infants' spontaneous preferences for each of 22 different chromatic stimuli of varying dominant wavelength and colorimetric purity, each paired against the same white standard. In Experiment 2, we measured infants' chromatic detection thresholds. In Experiment 3, adult subjects made saturation matches between a blue-green standard and each of five other chromatic stimuli. Infant detection thresholds accounted for 34% of the variance in infant "hue" preferences, much more than colorimetric purity (2.4%) or adult saturation judgments (3%), but none of the three variables accounted for the majority of the variance. In our view, the most likely remaining option is that infants' spontaneous "hue" preferences indeed arise from preferences for the hues of stimuli that adults see as blue, purple and red.
A Bayesian model of the disambiguation of gravitoinertial force by visual cues.	The otoliths are stimulated in the same fashion by gravitational and inertial forces, so otolith signals are ambiguous indicators of self-orientation. The ambiguity can be resolved with added visual information indicating orientation and acceleration with respect to the earth. Here we present a Bayesian model of the statistically optimal combination of noisy vestibular and visual signals. Likelihoods associated with sensory measurements are represented in an orientation/acceleration space. The likelihood function associated with the otolith signal illustrates the ambiguity; there is no unique solution for self-orientation or acceleration. Likelihood functions associated with other sensory signals can resolve this ambiguity. In addition, we propose two priors, each acting on a dimension in the orientation/acceleration space: the idiotropic prior and the no-acceleration prior. We conducted experiments using a motion platform and attached visual display to examine the influence of visual signals on the interpretation of the otolith signal. Subjects made pitch and acceleration judgments as the vestibular and visual signals were manipulated independently. Predictions of the model were confirmed: (1) visual signals affected the interpretation of the otolith signal, (2) less variable signals had more influence on perceived orientation and acceleration than more variable ones, and (3) combined estimates were more precise than single-cue estimates. We also show that the model can explain some well-known phenomena including the perception of upright in zero gravity, the Aubert effect, and the somatogravic illusion.
Mechanisms of recognition of the outlines of "vanishing" optotypes.	The aim of the present work was to study the interaction between the optical properties of images of " disappearing" optotypes and their recognition thresholds. The "disappearing" optotypes were figures with complex outlines and had a unique property - they were close to the threshold of recognition and observation, which increases the accuracy of measurement of visual acuity and the subjects' attention to them. The recognition distances of "disappearing" optotypes were measured. A relationship was found between the recognition distance of "disappearing" optotypes and different optical density profiles on the one hand and the spatial and spatial frequency characteristics of the stimuli on the other. The decisive factor determining the threshold of recognition of optotypes in spatial frequency terms is its spatial frequency spectrum; that in spatial terms is the width of the black/white pair or black-white triad in the complex outline. Regardless of the shape of the optotype, one of the most important limiting factors was the concordance of this test with the scattering function of the subject's eye optics.
Quantitative sensory testing of cold and vibration perception during compression of median nerve at the wrist.	We conducted a sequential study of quantitative sensory testing (QST) during compression-induced conduction block of the median nerve to determine relative vulnerability of the small and large myelinated nerve fibers. We tested cold (CPT) and vibratory perception thresholds (VPT) of the third digit in 15 healthy subjects during constant, localized compression for 30 min of the median nerve at the wrist. The orthodromic sensory nerve action potentials (SNAPs) recorded at wrist and elbow served to monitor the degree of associated conduction block. After the onset of nerve compression, it took 16 min for CPT to show the first change; VPT remained normal for 26 min. CPT recovered 2 min later than VPT after release of compression. The SNAP amplitude at the wrist diminished immediately at the start of compression and declined progressively, whereas the response at the elbow remained the same initially, showing no latency change for 20 min. A nearly identical time course of SNAP changes in the two experiments justified the comparison of separately tested CPT and VPT as a measure of modality-specific vulnerability. Contrary to the common belief, a focal compression sufficient to produce rapidly reversible conduction abnormalities affects the slow-conducting small myelinated fibers mediating cold perception before the fast-conducting large myelinated fibers transmitting vibration perception. The data document the order of modality-specific vulnerability of sensory nerve fibers to mild compression. The finding suggests that testing CPT, rather than VPT, provides a better QST to delineate rapidly reversible symptoms induced by compression.
Visual information processing in high-functioning individuals with autism spectrum disorders and their parents.	The authors assessed visual information processing in high-functioning individuals with pervasive developmental disorders (PDD) and their parents. The authors used tasks for contrast sensitivity, motion, and form perception to test visual processing occurring relatively early and late in the magnocellular-dorsal and parvocellular-ventral pathways. No deficits were found in contrast sensitivity for low or high spatial frequencies or for motion or form perception between individuals with PDD in comparison with a matched control group. Individuals with PDD performed equally with or better than controls on motion detection tasks. In addition, the authors did not find differences on any of the tasks between parents of the PDD group and matched control parents. These results indicate that high-functioning individuals with PDD and their parents are able to process visual stimuli that rely on early or late processing in the magnocellular-dorsal and parvocellular-ventral pathways as well as controls.
Scratching and noxious heat stimuli inhibit itch in humans: a psychophysical study.	Patients who suffer from chronic itch employ creative techniques to alleviate their itch, often using painful thermal stimuli, such as hot and very cold showers, as well as mechanical stimuli, such as scratching.
Ethnic differences regarding tactile and pain thresholds in the trigeminal region.	The aim of the present study was to evaluate ethnic differences of the tactile detection threshold (TDT), the filament-prick pain detection threshold (FPT), the pressure pain detection threshold (PPT), and the pressure pain tolerance detection threshold (PTOL) in the orofacial region of symptom-free subjects. Twenty-two men and 22 women in Belgium and in Japan (age range from 20 to 31 years) participated. The TDT and the FPT were measured on the cheek skin (CS) overlying the masseter muscles (MM), on the maxillary gingiva (MG), and at the tip of the tongue (TT), using Semmes-Weinstein monofilaments. The PPT and PTOL were measured at the central part of the MM, using a pressure algometer. A general linear model was used in each case to capture ethnic and gender effects. Japanese women had the lowest TDT at CS, in contrast to Belgian men, who had the highest value; a significant ethnic and gender effect was found (P=.026 and P<.001, respectively). Similar results were found for FPT at CS with significant ethnic and gender effects (P<.001 for both). There was no significant ethnic effect regarding intra-oral TDT and FPT or regarding PPT and PTOL.
Neuronal involvement in cisplatin neuropathy: prospective clinical and neurophysiological studies.	Although it is well known that cisplatin causes a sensory neuropathy, the primary site of involvement is not established. The clinical symptoms localized in a stocking-glove distribution may be explained by a length dependent neuronopathy or by a distal axonopathy. To study whether the whole neuron or the distal axon was primarily affected, we have carried out serial clinical and electrophysiological studies in 16 males with testicular cancer before or early and late during and after treatment with cisplatin, etoposide and bleomycin at limited (<400 mg/m2 cisplatin), conventional (approximately 400 mg/m2 cisplatin) or high (>400 mg/m2 cisplatin) doses. At cumulative doses of cisplatin higher than 300 mg/m2 the patients lost distal tendon and H-reflexes and displayed reduced vibration sense in the feet and the fingers. The amplitudes of sensory nerve action potentials (SNAP) from the fingers innervated by the median nerve and the dorsolateral side of the foot innervated by the sural nerve were 50-60% reduced, whereas no definite changes occurred at lower doses. The SNAP conduction velocities were reduced by 10-15% at cumulative doses of 400-700 mg/m2 consistent with loss of large myelinated fibres. SNAPs from primarily Pacinian corpuscles in digit 3 and the dorsolateral side of the foot evoked by a tactile probe showed similar changes to those observed in SNAPs evoked by electrical stimulation. At these doses, somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) from the tibial nerve had increased latencies of peripheral, spinal and central responses suggesting loss of central processes of large dorsal root ganglion cells. Motor conduction studies, autonomic function and warm and cold temperature sensation remained unchanged at all doses of cisplatin treatment. The results of these studies are consistent with degeneration of large sensory neurons whereas there was no evidence of distal axonal degeneration even at the lowest toxic doses of cisplatin.
The relationship between the discharge of intradental nerves and the rate of fluid flow through dentine in the cat.	To investigate further the relationship between dentinal tubular flow and the discharge evoked in intradental nerves.
Spatio-temporal receptive field properties of cells in the rat superior colliculus.	Although the rat is widely used in neurobehavioural research, the spatio-temporal receptive field properties of neurons in superficial layers of the superior colliculus are relatively unknown. Extracellular recordings were carried out in anesthetized Long Evans rats. Neurons in these layers had simple-like and complex-like receptive fields (RFs). Most cells (67%) had RFs showing band-pass and low-pass spatial frequency (SF) tuning profiles. Spatial band-pass profiles showed low optimal SF (mean=0.03 c/deg), low spatial resolution (mean=0.18 c/deg) and large spatial bandwidths (mean=2.3 octaves). More than two-thirds of the RFs (71%) were selective to orientation and only 11% were clearly direction selective. Nearly two-thirds of cells (68%) had band-pass temporal frequency (TF) tuning profiles with narrow bandwidths (mean=1.7 oct.) whereas the others showed low-pass TF tuning profiles. Temporal band-pass profiles had low optimal TFs (mean=3.5 c/s). Although some cells showed relatively low contrast thresholds (6%), most cells only responded to high contrast values (mean=38.2%). These results show that the spatial resolution of collicular cells is poor and that they respond mainly to highly contrasted moving stimuli.
A splice site mutation in the murine Opa1 gene features pathology of autosomal dominant optic atrophy.	Autosomal dominant optic atrophy (adOA) is a juvenile onset, progressive ocular disorder characterized by bilateral loss of vision, central visual field defects, colour vision disturbances, and optic disc pallor. adOA is most frequently associated with mutations in OPA1 encoding a dynamin-related large GTPase that localizes to mitochondria. Histopathological studies in adOA patients have shown a degeneration of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and a loss of axons in the optic nerve. However little is known about the molecular mechanism and pathophysiology of adOA due to the lack of appropriate in vivo models. Here we report a first mouse model carrying a splice site mutation (c.1065 + 5G --> A) in the Opa1 gene. The mutation induces a skipping of exon 10 during transcript processing and leads to an in-frame deletion of 27 amino acid residues in the GTPase domain. Western blot analysis showed no evidence of a shortened mutant protein but a approximately 50% reduced OPA1 protein level supporting haploinsufficiency as a major disease mechanism in adOA. Homozygous mutant mice die in utero during embryogenesis with first notable developmental delay at E8.5 as detected by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Heterozygous mutants are viable and of normal habitus but exhibit an age-dependent loss of RGCs that eventually progresses to a severe degeneration of the ganglion cell and nerve fibre layer. In addition optic nerves of mutant mice showed a reduced number of axons, and a swelling and abnormal shape of the remaining axons. Mitochondria in these axons showed disorganized cristae structures. All these defects recapitulate crucial features of adOA in humans and therefore document the validity and importance of this model for future research.
Detecting movement-related EEG change by wavelet decomposition-based neural networks trained with single thumb movement.	The main goal of this study was to develop a real-time detection algorithm of movement-related EEG changes for the nave subjects with a very small amount of training data. Such an algorithm is vital for the realization of brain-computer interface.
Vertical asymmetries in pre-attentive detection of changes in motion direction.	Stimulus localization affects visual motion processing. Vertical asymmetries favouring lower visual field have been reported in event-related potentials (ERPs) and behavioural studies under different attention conditions. However, there are no studies examining such asymmetries to non-attended motion changes. The present study investigated whether the asymmetry in processing information from the upper and lower visual fields also affects the automatic detection of motion-direction changes as indexed by visual Mismatch Negativity (vMMN). We recorded vMMN to changes in sinusoidal gratings differing in motion direction presented in the periphery of visual field in three different locations: upper and lower (ULVF), upper (UVF) and lower (LVF) along the vertical meridian. The N2 component elicited to peripheral motion presented lower amplitudes when the UVF was stimulated. The vMMN elicited to infrequent motion-direction changes was present in all stimulation conditions. However, it was reduced to UVF stimulation. These results suggest that the visual system automatically detects motion-direction changes presented at both upper-lower visual fields; however they also indicate that the process is favoured when stimuli are presented in the LVF alone.
Psychophysical evidence for two routes to suppression before binocular summation of signals in human vision.	Visual mechanisms in primary visual cortex are suppressed by the superposition of gratings perpendicular to their preferred orientations. A clear picture of this process is needed to (i) inform functional architecture of image-processing models, (ii) identify the pathways available to support binocular rivalry, and (iii) generally advance our understanding of early vision. Here we use monoptic sine-wave gratings and cross-orientation masking (XOM) to reveal two cross-oriented suppressive pathways in humans, both of which occur before full binocular summation of signals. One is a within-eye (ipsiocular) pathway that is spatially broadband, immune to contrast adaptation and has a suppressive weight that tends to decrease with stimulus duration. The other pathway operates between the eyes (interocular), is spatially tuned, desensitizes with contrast adaptation and has a suppressive weight that increases with stimulus duration. When cross-oriented masks are presented to both eyes, masking is enhanced or diminished for conditions in which either ipsiocular or interocular pathways dominate masking, respectively. We propose that ipsiocular suppression precedes the influence of interocular suppression and tentatively associate the two effects with the lateral geniculate nucleus (or retina) and the visual cortex respectively. The interocular route is a good candidate for the initial pathway involved in binocular rivalry and predicts that interocular cross-orientation suppression should be found in cortical cells with predominantly ipsiocular drive.
Method for detecting small changes in vibrotactile perception threshold related to tactile acuity.	Two metrics, expressing the change in mechanoreceptor-specific vibrotactile thresholds at a fingertip over a time interval of months or years, and the shift in threshold from the mean values recorded from the fingertips of healthy persons, have been constructed for thresholds measured from individual fingers. The metrics assume the applicability of the acute adaptation property of mechanoreceptors, which has been confirmed by thresholds obtained from 18 forest workers on two occasions, separated by 5 years. Hence, when expressed in decibels, both threshold changes and threshold shifts may be averaged at frequencies mediated by the same receptor population to improve precision. Differences between threshold changes at frequencies mediated by the same receptor population may be used to identify inconsistent subject performance, and hence potentially erroneous results. For this group of subjects, the threshold changes and threshold shifts at frequencies believed mediated by the slowly adapting type I (SAI) (4 and 6.3 Hz) and rapidly adapting type I (FAI) (20 and 32 Hz) receptors within each finger were correlated. In these circumstances, which may be expected to occur for some work-induced and systemic peripheral neuropathies, both threshold changes and threshold shifts may be summed over SAI and FAI receptors to improve precision, and hence the potential for interpretation.
Tactile sensibility of single-tooth implants and natural teeth.	The purpose of this randomized split-mouth clinical trial was to determine the active tactile sensibility between single-tooth implants and opposing natural teeth and to compare it with the tactile sensibility of pairs of natural teeth on the contralateral side in the same mouth (intraindividual comparison).
Relative sensitivities to large-field optic-flow patterns varying in direction and speed.	Motion in depth results in radial optic-flow patterns. Forward motion results in radially expanding patterns, whereas backward motion generates contracting patterns. Radial optic-flow patterns are typically represented with a positive speed gradient, ie zero speed at the point of fixation, and maximum speed at the periphery. However, the actual speed profile in such a stimulus will depend upon the relative depth of objects in the scene. Using large-field stimuli (82 deg diameter) we determined relative sensitivities to radial expansion and contraction patterns and also to various types of speed gradients: positive, negative, random, and flat. We found that, even when large-field stimuli are used, observers are more sensitive to radially contracting patterns than to expanding patterns. Sensitivity to the positive speed gradient was not consistently different from either the negative or random gradients. Sensitivity to the flat gradient depended upon the speed of the stimuli. The finding of greater sensitivity to radial contraction is discussed in terms of the functional requirements involved in the use of optic-flow signals in maintaining balance. On the basis of the present findings, the utility of comparing psychophysical results based on thresholds against physiological data based on suprathreshold stimuli is also discussed.
The stereoscopic sliver: a comparison of duration thresholds for fully stereoscopic and unmatched versions.	Just as positional disparities of image features seen with both eyes provide depth information, the presence of an area visible to one eye but not the other within a binocularly viewed scene can indicate an occlusion at a depth discontinuity. The close geometrical association between these two kinds of cues suggests they may both be exploited by stereopsis. To investigate this, we developed a novel binocular stimulus entirely lacking in classical disparity that contains an unmatched vertical sliver which elicits a warping of the surrounding surface to accommodate a depth discontinuity. We measured depth-discrimination performance at a range of stimulus durations, correcting for variations in stimulus visibility, to characterise the decline of the efficacy of the depth signal with limited integration time. Results show a close correspondence of performance for similar stimuli with unmatched features and classical binocular disparity across a sixtyfold range of viewing durations, supporting the notion of a close association between the two types of cues in human stereopsis. Control experiments excluded simple eye-of-origin cues and long-range false matches as explanatory factors.
Fine-touch pressure thresholds in the adult penis.	To map the fine-touch pressure thresholds of the adult penis in circumcised and uncircumcised men, and to compare the two populations.
Sex-related differences in NMDA-evoked rat masseter muscle afferent discharge result from estrogen-mediated modulation of peripheral NMDA receptor activity.	In the present study, the hypothesis that sex-related differences in glutamate-evoked rat masseter muscle afferent discharge may result from estrogen-related modulation of peripheral N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activity and/or expression was tested by examining afferent fiber discharge in response to masseter injection of NMDA and the expression of NR2A/B subunits by masseter ganglion neurons in male and female rats. The results showed that injection of NMDA into the masseter muscle evoked discharges in putative mechanonociceptive afferent fibers and increased blood pressure that was concentration-dependent, however, a systemic action of NMDA appeared responsible for increased blood pressure. NMDA-evoked afferent discharge was significantly greater in female than in male rats, was positively correlated with plasma estrogen levels in females and was significantly greater in ovariectomized female rats treated with a high dose (5 mug/day) compared with a low dose (0.5 mug/day) of estrogen. Pre-treatment of high dose estrogen-treated-ovariectomized female rats with the Src tyrosine kinase inhibitor PP2 did not affect NMDA-evoked afferent discharge. NMDA-evoked afferent discharge was attenuated by the antagonists ketamine and ifenprodil, which is selective for NR2B containing NMDA receptors. Fewer masseter ganglion neurons expressed the NR2A (16%) subunit as compared with the NR2B subunit (38%), which was expressed at higher frequencies in intact female (46%) and high dose estrogen-treated ovariectomized female (60%) rats than in male (31%) rats. Taken together, these results suggest that sex-related differences in NMDA-evoked masseter afferent discharge are due, at least in part, to an estrogen-mediated increase in expression of peripheral NMDA receptors by masseter ganglion neurons in female rats.
Visual phosphene perception modulated by subthreshold crossmodal sensory stimulation.	Crossmodal sensory interactions serve to integrate behaviorally relevant sensory stimuli. In this study, we investigated the effect of modulating crossmodal interactions between visual and somatosensory stimuli that in isolation do not reach perceptual awareness. When a subthreshold somatosensory stimulus was delivered within close spatiotemporal congruency to the expected site of perception of a phosphene, a subthreshold transcranial magnetic stimulation pulse delivered to the occipital cortex evoked a visual percept. The results suggest that under subthreshold conditions of visual and somatosensory stimulation, crossmodal interactions presented in a spatially and temporally specific manner can sum up to become behaviorally significant. These interactions may reflect an underlying anatomical connectivity and become further enhanced by attention modulation mechanisms.
Analysis of sympathetic skin responses in a group of healthy subjects and in patients affected by sphincter disorders and impotence.	Bilateral palmar and plantar sympathetic skin responses (SSRs) to pudendal and median nerves stimulation have been recorded in a population of 10 healthy adult subjects. A group of 11 patients affected by sphincter disorders and/or impotence of neurological origin (diabetic neuropathy, ischaemic myelopathy, myelitis, cauda aequina syndrome) was investigated and results were compared with normal values obtained from the control group. The technique is focused on the vegetative component of innervation and is shown to give complementary information on sympathetic dysfunction, in addition to traditional techniques relating to somatic innervation (electroneurography, electromyography, somatosensory evoked potentials.
Pain sensitivity in offspring of hypertensives at rest and during baroreflex stimulation.	Healthy males with a parental history of hypertension (PH+) showed reduced pain sensitivity to a constrictive thigh-cuff pressure stimulus as compared to individuals without a parental history of hypertension. The protocol included eight trials in which a thigh-cuff was inflated until the subject reported the stimulus to be "painful." The PH+ group exhibited significantly lower pain sensitivity as indicated by (1) higher levels of constrictive pressure when pain was first reported and (2) lower subjective pain ratings at maximum constrictive pressure. To assess the role of baroreflex stimulation on pain sensitivity in these groups, four trials were administered concurrently with external carotid pressure stimulation. There were no significant differences in pain sensitivity in each group as a function of baroreflex stimulation. The results suggest that the hypoalgesia observed in hypertensives may predate the development of sustained elevations in blood pressure.
Relationship between foveal threshold and visual acuity using the Humphrey visual field analyzer.	Evaluate Humphrey visual field (VF) analyzer central 30-2 foveal threshold test for best-corrected visual acuity.
Effects of selective cochlear toxicity and vestibular deafferentation on vestibular evoked myogenic potentials in guinea pigs.	The findings suggest that sound-evoked myogenic potentials on the guinea pig sternocleidomastoid muscle (SM) originate from the vestibular end organ and not from the cochlea of the inner ear.
Is there a relationship between light touch-pressure sensation and functional hand ability?	To investigate and compare the level of light touch-pressure sensation as tested via the Semmes Weinstein monofilament (SWM) test with the level of functional hand ability.
Size matters: saccades during scene perception.	We investigated the effect of image size on saccade amplitudes. First, in a meta-analysis, relevant results from previous scene perception studies are summarised, suggesting the possibility of a linear relationship between mean saccade amplitude and image size. Forty-eight observers viewed 96 colour scene images scaled to four different sizes, while their eye movements were recorded. Mean and median saccade amplitudes were found to be directly proportional to image size, while the mode of the distribution lay in the range of very short saccades. However, saccade amplitudes expressed as percentages of image size were not constant over the different image sizes; on smaller stimulus images, the relative saccades were found to be larger, and vice versa. In sum, and as far as mean and median saccade amplitudes are concerned, the size of stimulus images is the dominant factor. Other factors, such as image properties, viewing task, or measurement equipment, are only of subordinate importance. Thus, the role of stimulus size has to be reconsidered, in theoretical as well as methodological terms.
Retinal mechanisms in the perception of subjective contours: the contribution of lateral inhibition.	One mechanism frequently proposed for the creation of subjective contours and their related brightness effects involves lateral neural interactions on the retina, such as the lateral inhibitory effects that underlie brightness contrast. Subjective contour stimuli were displayed under an intermittent light source, with rapid onset and slow offset as has been shown to increase lateral inhibitory interactions by allowing summation of neural onset transients. A sample of forty subjects, using magnitude estimates, reported increased subjective contour clarity and brightness effects under these exposure conditions. The effects were larger for relative brightness differences than for contour visibility. It appears that this technique may have applications in exploring retinal contributions to other aspects of the perception of subjective contours.
The effect of myopia on contrast thresholds.	To examine the relationship between the degree of myopia and foveally measured contrast thresholds.
Retinal thickness and visual thresholds measured in patients with retinitis pigmentosa.	: To determine the association between retinal thickness and visual function in patients with retinitis pigmentosa (RP).
Evidence of chorda tympani dysfunction in patients with burning mouth syndrome.	More than two-thirds of patients with burning mouth syndrome (BMS) have altered taste sensation. The authors conducted a study to assess chorda tympani and trigeminal nerve function in these patients.
Perception of ELF electromagnetic fields: excitation thresholds and inter-individual variability.	So far, in guidelines limiting exposure to electromagnetic fields, basic limits of intracorporal electric current densities have been recommended to prevent from nerve cell stimulation. They were based on experimental data and extrapolated to the general population with limited knowledge on the inter-individual variability. To assess the variability of cellular excitability the perception thresholds for directly applied electric currents were used as surrogate. However, until recently, the data on perception ability of electric currents were gained from small groups only and led to controversial results, differing by more than one order of magnitude. This paper discusses the results of our previous research comprising extensive measurements on 1,071 individuals (349 men and 359 women aging 16 to 60 y, 117 girls and 123 boys aging 9 to 16 years, and 123 individuals older than 60 y). Their electric current perception thresholds fit fairly well with a log-normal distribution. The electric 50 Hz current perception threshold was measured by directly applied pairs of electrodes at the lower forearms. It was found that the inter-individual variability comprises two orders of magnitudes which is one order of magnitude higher than assumed so far. Women were found to be significantly more sensitive than men. Depending on the level of probability p, the perception threshold for women was 0.77-fold (p = 50%) or even 0.45-fold (p = 0.5%) lower than for men. Surprisingly, children turned out to be considerably more sensitive than men but similar to women. The age dependence exhibited a decrease of perception thresholds with age from adult men to boys joining the values of girls at ages around 10 y. The results indicate that existing safety limits for touch currents need critical review. Apart from the inter-individual variability, it was estimated to which place within the distribution of perception levels the basic limits were related. Therefore, numerical simulations were made to calculate intracorporal electric current densities associated with the applied electric currents. The results confirm that the basic limits of intracorporal electric current densities as recommended by ICNIRP are conservative to prevent cellular excitation.
Corneal nerve structure and function in keratoconus: a case report.	To investigate corneal nerve structure and function in a 24-year-old patient with keratoconus and prominent corneal nerves.
The assessment of increased sensitivity to visual stimuli in patients with chronic dizziness.	Patients with chronic vestibular dysfunction often experience visually-induced aggravation of dizzy symptoms (visual vertigo; VV). The Situational Characteristics Questionnaire (SCQ), Computerized Dynamic Posturography or Rod and Frame Test (RFT) are used to assess VV symptoms. This study evaluates whether correlations exist between these three tests, their ability to identify patients with VV and whether emotional state correlates with VV symptoms. Tests were completed by 20 normal controls (Group NC), 20 patients with vestibular dysfunction plus VV (Group VV) and 13 without VV (Group NVV). Additionally, the Vertigo Symptom Scale (VSS-V) was applied to quantify general, non-visually induced vertigo (dizziness, lightheadedness and/or spinning) and imbalance. Autonomic (VSS-A) and psychological symptoms (Hospital Anxiety and Depression questionnaire; HAD) were also assessed. With the SCQ 100% of Group VV scored outside normal ranges and scores differed significantly between Group VV and both Groups NC and NVV. RFT values were not significantly different between groups; only 15% of patients scored outside normal ranges. Posturography scores were abnormal for 50% of patients; significant differences were noted between Groups NC and VV for composite scores and ratios 3/1, 4/1, 5/1 and 6/1 (indicative of abnormal sensory re-weighting). There were no correlations between the three data sets in patients. Anxiety and depression scores significantly differed between Groups NC and VV but not between patient groups; this indicates that psychological symptoms may be present in either patient group. The SCQ can be used to corroborate an initial clinical diagnosis of VV and quantify its severity in patients with vestibular dysfunction. Posturography data suggested patients with VV have a sensory re-weighting abnormality. The rod and frame test results and posturography findings agree less with the clinical diagnosis of VV. Psychological symptoms may need to be addressed.
Exploring consciousness in emotional face decoding: an event-related potential analysis.	The author analyzed the role of consciousness in emotional face comprehension. The author recorded psychophysiological measures of event-related potentials (ERPs), elicited by supraliminal and subliminal stimuli when participants viewed emotional facial expressions of 4 emotions or neutral stimuli. The author analyzed an ERP emotion-specific effect (N200 peak variation; temporal interval was 180-300 ms poststimulus) in terms of peak amplitude and latency variables. The results indicated 4 important findings. First, there was an emotional-specific ERP deflection only for emotional stimuli, not for neutral stimuli. Second, the unaware information processing was quite similar to that of aware in terms of peak morphology, but not in terms of latency. In fact, unconscious stimulation produced a more delayed peak variation than did conscious stimulation. Third, valence of facial stimulus (positive or negative) was supraliminally and subliminally decoded because it was showed by differences of peak deflection between negative high arousing (fear and anger) and low arousing (happiness, sadness, and neutral) stimuli. Finally, the author found a more posterior distribution of ERP as a function of emotional content of the stimulus. Cortical lateralization (right or left) was not correlated to conscious or unconscious stimulation. The author discussed the functional significance of her results in terms of supraliminal and subliminal conditions.
Vestibular evoked myogenic potential threshold and seasickness susceptibility.	Numerous attempts have been made to find physiological parameters that might predict susceptibility to seasickness. However, to date, no physiological index has been found that can serve as a diagnostic tool for individual susceptibility to motion sickness at the personnel selection stage. A number of studies have demonstrated that linear acceleration in the vertical plane is the most provocative stimulus of motion sickness. The main physiological sensory modality responsible for monitoring vertical acceleration is the saccule. Over the last decade, vestibular evoked myogenic potentials (VEMP) have come to be recognized as a reliable procedure for the evaluation of saccular function. We used the VEMP test to assess otolith responses in 15 seasickness-susceptible (SS) and 15 non-seasickness-susceptible (NSS) healthy male crew members. The SS group exhibited a significantly higher VEMP threshold and a significantly lower peak-to-peak p13-n23 amplitude interval compared with the NSS group. Further analysis by logistic regression found threshold to be the dominant factor associated with seasickness susceptibility. The study demonstrated differences in the VEMP reflex of the SS and NSS groups. The threshold difference may represent an intrinsic mechanistic difference between the vestibular systems of the two groups. Theoretically, increased susceptibility to seasickness may be due to a discrepancy between the various neural systems as a result of reduced otolith responses.
Information transmission in hippocampal CA1 neuron models in the presence of poisson shot noise: the case of periodic sub-threshold spike trains.	This article presents an analysis of the information transmission of periodic sub-threshold spike trains in a hippocampal CA1 neuron model in the presence of a homogeneous Poisson shot noise. In the computer simulation, periodic sub-threshold spike trains were presented repeatedly to the midpoint of the main apical branch, while the homogeneous Poisson shot noise was applied to the mid-point of a basal dendrite in the CA1 neuron model consisting of the soma with one sodium, one calcium, and five potassium channels. From spike firing times recorded at the soma, the inter spike intervals were generated and then the probability, p(T), of the inter-spike interval histogram corresponding to the spike interval, r, of the periodic input spike trains was estimated to obtain an index of information transmission. In the present article, it is shown that at a specific amplitude of the homogeneous Poisson shot noise, p(T) was found to be maximized, as well as the possibility to encode the periodic sub-threshold spike trains became greater. It was implied that setting the amplitude of the homogeneous Poisson shot noise to the specific values which maximize the information transmission might contribute to efficiently encoding the periodic sub-threshold spike trains by utilizing the stochastic resonance.
Diagnostic tools for diabetic sensorimotor polyneuropathy.	Diabetes and its complications are major causes of mortality in the United States, with increasing rates of morbidity and increasing health care costs. Patients diagnosed with diabetes attempt to control cholesterol levels, blood pressure, and blood glucose levels to decrease the risk of diabetic microvascular complications (DMC), such as diabetic sensorimotor polyneuropathy (DSP) [also known as diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN)]. Despite control of these risk factors for vascular disease, many patients still develop DSP. Research investigating diabetic neuropathy holds promise for specific treatment of diabetic complications. Intrinsic to the success of new therapies is the accurate diagnosis and evaluation of DSP. Symptom scores, quantitative sensory testing and electrophysiology are some of the diagnostic tools to identify the signs and symptoms of DSP. Early detection of neuropathy enables clinicians to prevent long-term complications like ulcers and amputations in patients with diabetes. The focus of this review is to describe the composite of tools necessary for diagnosis of DSP.
A comparison of two-point discrimination threshold of tactual, non-painful stimuli between chronic low back pain patients and controls.	Differences in pain sensitivity between chronic pain patients and healthy controls have been reported. Seltzer and Seltzer extended this line of research in studying the sensitivity to non-painful stimuli. They reported that the 2-point discrimination threshold of chronic pain patients was higher than that of control subjects. However, the study of Seltzer and Seltzer suffered from several methodological shortcomings. Therefore, in the present study we tried to replicate the findings in a group of chronic low back pain patients using a design that was believed to be methodologically stronger. Replication failed: no evidence was found for the hypothesis that chronic pain patients are less sensitive to non-painful stimuli. Further studies on various defined types of acute and chronic pain patients are required.
Self-sustaining non-repetitive activity in a large scale neuronal-level model of the hippocampal circuit.	The mammalian hippocampus is involved in spatial representation and memory storage and retrieval, and much research is ongoing to elucidate the cellular and system-level mechanisms underlying these cognitive functions. Modeling may be useful to link network-level activity patterns to the relevant features of hippocampal anatomy and electrophysiology. Investigating the effects of circuit connectivity requires simulations of a number of neurons close to real scale. To this end, we construct a model of the hippocampus with 16 distinct neuronal classes (including both local and projection cells) and 200,000 individual neurons. The number of neurons in each class and their interconnectivity are drawn from rat anatomy. Here we analyze the emergent network activity and how it is affected by reducing either the size or the connectivity diversity of the model. When the model is run with a simple variation of the McCulloch-Pitts formalism, self-sustaining non-repetitive activity patterns consistently emerge. Specific firing threshold values are narrowly constrained for each cell class upon multiple runs with different stochastic wiring and initial conditions, yet these values do not directly affect network stability. Analysis of the model at different network sizes demonstrates that a scale reduction of one order of magnitude drastically alters network dynamics, including the variability of the output range, the distribution of firing frequencies, and the duration of self-sustained activity. Moreover, comparing the model to a control condition with an equivalent number of (excitatory/inhibitory balanced) synapses, but removing all class-specific information (i.e. collapsing the network to homogeneous random connectivity) has surprisingly similar effects to downsizing the total number of neurons. The reduced-scale model is also compared directly with integrate-and-fire simulations, which capture considerably more physiological detail at the single-cell level, but still fail to reproduce the full behavioral complexity of the large-scale model. Thus network size, cell class diversity, and connectivity details may all be critical to generate self-sustained non-repetitive activity patterns.
Mechanical resonance enhances the sensitivity of the vibrissa sensory system to near-threshold stimuli.	The representation of high-frequency sensory information is a crucial problem faced by the nervous system. Rodent facial vibrissae constitute a high-resolution sensory system, capable of discriminating and detecting subtle changes in tactual input. During active sensing, the mechanical properties of vibrissae may play a key role in filtering sensory information and translating it into neural activity. Previous studies have shown that rat vibrissae resonate, conferring frequency specificity to trigeminal ganglion (NV) and primary somatosensory cortex (SI) neurons during suprathreshold sensory stimulation. In addition to frequency specificity, a further potential impact of vibrissa resonance is enhancement of sensitivity to near-threshold stimuli through signal amplification. To examine the effect of resonance on peri-threshold inputs (<or=80 microm at the vibrissa tip), we recorded NV and SI neurons during stimulation at multiple amplitudes and frequencies, and generated minimal amplitude tuning curves. Several novel findings emerged from this study. First, vibrissa resonance significantly lowered the threshold for evoked neural activity, in many cases by an order of magnitude compared to stimuli presented at off-resonance frequencies. When stimulated at the fundamental resonance frequency, motions as small as 8 microm at the vibrissa tip, corresponding to angular deflections of less than 0.2 degrees, drove neural firing in the periphery and cortex. Second, a closer match between vibrissal and neural frequency tuning was found for lower amplitude motions. Third, simultaneous paired recordings demonstrated that the minimal amplitude of resonant vibrissa stimulation required to evoke responses in SI increased significantly for recordings outside the primary vibrissa barrel column, providing additional evidence for somatotopically localized frequency columns. These data demonstrate that resonant amplification can increase the sensitivity of the vibrissa sensory system to an ecologically relevant range of low-amplitude, high-frequency stimuli.
An embarrassment of pain perceptions? Towards an understanding of and explanation for the clinical presentation of CRPS type 1.	Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS), a fairly common problem in rheumatological and orthopaedic practice, is an allodynic pain state of uncertain pathology often variably and unpredictably responsive to treatments. Although published diagnostic criteria are available, in the reality of clinical practice these do not appear to encompass the wide variety of symptoms that a patient may present with. This leads to scepticism on the part of the clinician and confusion for the sufferer. This article aims to provide some explanations for an often bewildering clinical picture. We provide a construct for the plethora of symptoms that we have entitled 'the embarrassment of pain perceptions'. With the aid of a case report we examine recent research that suggests how peripherally based symptoms and signs arise from changes within the central nervous system, with particular attention given to the control function of the motor-proprioceptive integrative system. We speculate how these changes within the central nervous system may provide the patient with CRPS the ability to access complex layers of lower level perceptions that are normally suppressed. We propose that such a system may explain some of the clinical puzzlements seen in this condition and suggest that the complexities of CRPS may provide an insight into brain development through evolution, which is a fruitful area for interdisciplinary clinical and scientific research.
Spasticity measurement based on tonic stretch reflex threshold in stroke using a portable device.	We investigated intra- and inter-evaluator reliability to quantify spasticity based on the tonic stretch reflex threshold (TSRT) and the correlation between TSRT and resistance to stretch.
The influence of psychological state on the masseteric exteroceptive suppression reflex and somatosensory function.	This study examined the somatosensory function in the trigeminal region and quantitative measures of the exteroceptive suppression (ES) period in the masseteric EMG, in relation to a psychological evaluation.
Stereopsis and aging.	Three experiments investigated whether and to what extent increases in age affect the functionality of stereopsis. The observers' ages ranged from 18 to 83 years. The overall goal was to challenge the older stereoscopic visual system by utilizing high magnitudes of binocular disparity, ambiguous binocular disparity [cf., Julesz, B., & Chang, J. (1976). Interaction between pools of binocular disparity detectors tuned to different disparities. Biological Cybernetics, 22, 107-119], and by making binocular matching more difficult. In particular, Experiment 1 evaluated observers' abilities to discriminate ordinal depth differences away from the horopter using standing disparities of 6.5-46 min arc. Experiment 2 assessed observers' abilities to discriminate stereoscopic shape using line-element stereograms. The direction (crossed vs. uncrossed) and magnitude of the binocular disparity (13.7 and 51.5 min arc) were manipulated. Binocular matching was made more difficult by varying the orientations of corresponding line elements across the two eyes' views. The purpose of Experiment 3 was to determine whether the aging stereoscopic system can resolve ambiguous binocular disparities in a manner similar to that of younger observers. The results of all experiments demonstrated that older observers' stereoscopic vision is functionally comparable to that of younger observers in many respects. For example, both age groups exhibited a similar ability to discriminate depth and surface shape. The results also showed, however, that age-related differences in stereopsis do exist, and they become most noticeable when the older stereoscopic system is challenged by multiple simultaneous factors.
Speed adaptation as Kalman filtering.	If the purpose of adaptation is to fit sensory systems to different environments, it may implement an optimization of the system. What the optimum is depends on the statistics of these environments. Therefore, the system should update its parameters as the environment changes. A Kalman-filtering strategy performs such an update optimally by combining current estimations of the environment with those from the past. We investigate whether the visual system uses such a strategy for speed adaptation. We performed a matching-speed experiment to evaluate the time course of adaptation to an abrupt velocity change. Experimental results are in agreement with Kalman-modeling predictions for speed adaptation. When subjects adapt to a low speed and it suddenly increases, the time course of adaptation presents two phases, namely, a rapid decrease of perceived speed followed by a slower phase. In contrast, when speed changes from fast to slow, adaptation presents a single phase. In the Kalman-model simulations, this asymmetry is due to the prevalence of low speeds in natural images. However, this asymmetry disappears both experimentally and in simulations when the adapting stimulus is noisy. In both transitions, adaptation now occurs in a single phase. Finally, the model also predicts the change in sensitivity to speed discrimination produced by the adaptation.
The contribution of color to global motion processing.	This study investigates the contribution of color vision to global motion. We present evidence demonstrating that performance on a global motion task attains similar levels for both types of chromatic (L/M-cone opponent and S-cone opponent) and luminance stimuli at suprathreshold contrasts. We show, however, that the motion thresholds for isoluminant chromatic stimuli are luminance based, on the grounds that they are masked by luminance noise but robust to chromatic noise. Detection thresholds, on the other hand, are chromatic in origin (masked by chromatic but not luminance noise), indicating that there is no luminance artifact in the stimulus. We suggest that for color vision at isoluminance the global motion task is based on the integration of many local, luminance-based signals.
Trichromatic reconstruction from the interleaved cone mosaic: Bayesian model and the color appearance of small spots.	Observers use a wide range of color names, including white, to describe monochromatic flashes with a retinal size comparable to that of a single cone. We model such data as a consequence of information loss arising from trichromatic sampling. The model starts with the simulated responses of the individual L, M, and S cones actually present in the cone mosaic and uses these to reconstruct the L-, M-, and S-cone signals that were present at every image location. We incorporate the optics and the mosaic topography of individual observers, as well as the spatio-chromatic statistics of natural images. We simulated the experiment of H. Hofer, B. Singer, & D. R. Williams (2005) and predicted the color name on each simulated trial from the average chromaticity of the spot reconstructed by our model. Broad features of the data across observers emerged naturally as a consequence of the measured individual variation in the relative numbers of L, M, and S cones. The model's output is also consistent with the appearance of larger spots and of sinusoidal contrast modulations. Finally, the model makes testable predictions for future experiments that study how color naming varies with the fine structure of the retinal mosaic.
Does odour cross contamination alter olfactory thresholds in certain odours?	To determine if 1) there is cross contamination between odours tested on thresholds achieved, 2) a delay period is necessary between testing different odours.
Kinetics of olfactory function following endonasal sinus surgery for nasal polyposis.	Sinus surgery is known to improve olfactory function in patients with nasal polyposis. However, little is known about the kinetics of this process.
Initiation of Mauthner- or non-Mauthner-mediated fast escape evoked by different modes of sensory input.	Brainstem reticulospinal neurons (RSNs) serve as the major descending system in vertebrate sensorimotor integration. One of the paired RSNs in zebrafish, the Mauthner (M) cell, is thought to initiate fast escape from sudden noxious stimuli. Two other paired RSNs, morphologically homologous to the M-cell, are also suggested to play key roles in controlling fast escape. However, the relationship among activities of the M-cell and its homologs during fast escape and the sensory inputs that elicit escape via their activation are unclear. We have monitored hindbrain RSN activity simultaneously with tail flip movement during fast escape in zebrafish. Confocal calcium imaging of RSNs was performed on larvae rostrally embedded in agar but with their tails allowed to move freely. Application of a pulsed waterjet to the otic vesicle (OV) to activate acousticovestibular input elicited contralateral fast tail flips with short latency and an apparent Ca(2+) increase, reflecting a single action potential, in the ipsilateral M-cell (M-escape). Application of waterjet to head skin for tactile stimulation elicited fast escapes, but onset was delayed and the M-cell did not fire (non-M-escape). After eliminating either the M-cell or OV, only non-M-escape was initiated. Simultaneous high-speed confocal imaging of the M-cell and one of its homologs, MiD3cm, revealed complementary activation during fast escape: MiD3cm activity was low during M-escape but high during non-M-escape. These results suggest that M-cell firing is necessary for fast escape with short latency elicited by acousticovestibular input and that MiD3cm is more involved in non-M-escape driven by head-tactile input.
Reliability of cutaneous electrical perceptual threshold in the assessment of sensory perception in patients with spinal cord injury.	The electrical perceptual threshold (EPT) test complements the American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) assessment of cutaneous sensory function by providing a quantitative assessment for each dermatome. The aim here was to establish the reliability of the EPT by examining inter- and intra-rater repeatability of test results in spinal cord injury (SCI). Twelve persons with incomplete spinal cord injury (iSCI; two stable at >20 months and 10 sub-acute at <9 months post-injury) and 12 control subjects took part. EPT was established at the ASIA sensory key points. A pulse of 0.5 ms in duration was applied three times per second. Threshold was determined by the method of limits. The strength of stimulation was augmented (0.1 mA.s(-1)) until the recipient reported sensation, then reduced until sensation was lost. EPT was taken as the lowest strength at which the subject reported sensation. Threshold was determined by two raters to establish intra- and inter-rater reliability. There were no significant differences in mean intra- or inter-rater EPT values at, above, or below the level of lesion (ASIA sensory level) for iSCI subjects. The intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) was 0.56-0.80 for intra-rater and 0.52-0.91 for inter-rater classes, depending on the level tested. There was a significant correlation (Pearson's r = 0.93) between EPTs for four different dermatomes of control subjects assessed using two different types of stimulator. EPT provides an objective and quantitative measure of threshold for cutaneous sensory function. The method has good inter- and intra-rater reliability, and can be assessed using different stimulators.
Reproducibility and performance characteristics of colonic compliance, tone, and sensory tests in healthy humans.	The performance characteristics of colonic sensation and motility measurements are unclear.
Temporal integration in cat visual cortex: a test of Bloch's law.	Some units in the cat visual cortex fail to respond to a briefly flashed bar and it has been suggested that such neurons function as visual integrators with a long time constant. To test this integrator hypothesis, a study was made using presentations of a bar, flashed over the receptive field for various durations and at different luminances. Some cortical cells indeed showed an increase in the time to peak latency and in the response amplitude when stimulus duration was prolonged up to 320 msec. Such units obeyed Bloch's law for durations over 100 msec.
Exploring the third dimension with eye movements: better than stereopsis.	Eye movements are usually presumed to be irrelevant for (or detrimental to) stereoacuity. When targets of interest are not adjacent, however, better discrimination of distance can be achieved by looking back and forth between them. In order to exclude ordinary stereopsis and examine this viewing strategy in isolation, judgements of apparent equidistance have been obtained for pairs of small targets separated horizontally by the angular spacing that corresponds to the fovea-to-blind-spot distance. Precise, stereopsis-like evaluations of relative distance can be made by fixating each of those targets in turn, even if they are not simultaneously presented but are instead shown in alternation. Sequential comparisons of stimuli are thus involved in this form of distance discrimination, but direct utilization of oculomotor information (vergence) is rendered unlikely because very brief target presentation is sufficient. Hence, the evidence argues for "sequential stereopsis": comparisons of the disparities of targets, both seen foveally, before and after saccades. This interpretation makes stringent demands on oculomotor coordination during saccades, but measurements of vergence "noise" indicate that this requirement can probably be fulfilled.
The relationship of luminous intensity and velocity for motion perception and maximum OKN elicitation.	The psychophysiological aspects of the luminous intensity stimulus velocity relationship for perceiving a grating pattern and eliciting optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) with maximum slow-phase velocity were studied in two normal human eyes. The results show that (1) both the luminous intensity and target velocity (within the region from 16-56 deg/sec) have a linear relation to the perception of a grating pattern and eliciting of the maximum OKN. (2) The trends of the relation between perception and elicitation are similar, but the slopes of the regression lines are different. (3) No statistically valid directional effect is found on either visual perception or maximum OKN elicitation in humans who have normal binocular vision. (4) For a given stimulus velocity, OKN gain (slow-phase velocity/stimulus velocity) increases to a saturation point as the stimulus intensity increases. The maximum OKN gain decreases as the stimulus velocity increases.
Vernier acuity with stationary moving Gabors.	We examined the ability of observers to determine the vertical alignment of three Gabor patches (cosine gratings tapered in X and Y by Gaussians) when the grating within the middle patch was moving right or left. The comparison patches were flickered in counterphase, as was the test patch in a control condition. In all conditions, the Gabor patch itself (the envelope) was stationary. Vernier acuity (i.e. sensitivity) was almost as good with the moving as with the flickering Gabors, but there was a very pronounced positional bias in the case of the patterns in which the internal gratings were moving. The (stationary) patches appeared to be displaced in the direction of the grating movement. Thus if the grating were drifting rightwards, the observer would see the patches as being aligned only when the test patch position in fact was shifted far over to the left. This movement-related bias increased rapidly with retinal eccentricity, reaching 15 min at 8 deg eccentricity. The bias was greatest at 4-8 Hz temporal frequency, and at low spatial frequencies. Whether the patterns were on the horizontal or the vertical meridian was largely irrelevant, but larger biases were found with patterns moving towards or away from the fovea than with those moving in a tangential direction.
Spatial localization across channels.	We have studied vernier acuity for patterns in which the stimuli to be aligned either are similar in their spatial and color characteristics or differ in these properties. The question which we address is whether spatial localization is independent of the channels being stimulated by the patterns to be aligned. We found that the precision of vernier alignment of Gabor patches was very similar irrespective of whether the patches were the same or different in spatial frequency, orientation, or color. It appears that the visual system extracts very precise location information independent of the similarity or dissimilarity of the spatio-chromatic selectivity of the channels carrying that information.
Luminance sensitivity recovers quickly in monocularly deprived cats.	We measured increment thresholds, using a reaction time or two-choice behavioral technique, in three cats monocularly deprived of normal vision for 14-16 months. Luminance increment thresholds could be obtained as early as nine days after lid opening and improved by 0.5-2.0 log units over the next few weeks. Also, visual reaction times decreased during the sensitivity improvement. When compared to the data for grating discrimination, these results suggest that visual recovery from monocular deprivation may proceed at different rates for different psychophysical discriminations.
Pain and allodynia in postherpetic neuralgia: role of somatic and sympathetic nervous systems.	The immediate effects of selective sympathetic and somatic blockades on pain and tactile allodynia in 12 patients with long-standing ophthalmic or high cervical postherpetic neuralgia were compared. For the duration of the somatic blockade, pain was completely abolished in 11 patients and allodynia in 8 patients. In contrast, during the sympathetic blockade only one patient reported total pain relief and three a marginal attenuation of pain while eight remained unchanged; and no patient reported clear alleviation of allodynia. After successful somatic blockade, pain and allodynia reappeared with tactile sensation while thermal sensation was still absent. Pain and allodynia appear to be related to sensory impulses travelling along the large rather than the small diameter fibres; and the sympathetic system may only have a limited role.
Epidural anesthesia with 0.5% bupivacaine: influence of age on sensory and motor blockade.	To determine the influence of age on epidural blockade, 10 elderly male patients (mean age, 73 yr) and 11 young male volunteers (mean age, 25 yr) received epidural anesthesia with 20 mL of 0.5% bupivacaine with epinephrine at the L2-3 interspace. Median cephalad analgesia level (pinprick) was T-4 in the elderly and T-10 in the young subjects (P less than 0.01). The duration of analgesia at the L-1 to S-3 segments was about 60 min shorter in the older patients than in the young volunteers (P less than 0.05). Motor blockade was evaluated quantitatively by isometric muscle force measurements in the lower extremities and by electromyographic recordings from the abdominal and quadriceps muscles. Motor blockade in the lower extremities was also assessed qualitatively by the Bromage scale. The intensity of motor blockade was not influenced by age. The mean duration of maximal motor blockade of the lower abdominal muscles was 69 min in elderly patients and 140 min in young subjects (P less than 0.05). The corresponding mean duration in the lower extremities was approximately 1.5 h in the older patients and 3 h in the young subjects (P less than 0.01). The elderly patients could be mobilized 2 h earlier than the young volunteers. Duration of Bromage grade 1 was about 1.5 h shorter in the elderly than in the young subjects (P less than 0.01). Not until 1.5-2 h after attainment of Bromage grade 0 was the muscle force in the lower extremities restored to 90% of baseline value. The authors conclude that cephalad spread was more extensive and duration of epidural blockade was shorter in elderly patients versus younger volunteers.
Macular colour contrast sensitivity in ocular hypertension and glaucoma: evidence for two types of defect.	Colour contrast sensitivity (CCS) of a large cohort of glaucomatous patients, ocular hypertensive patients (OH), and normal persons was measured at six-month intervals during a two-year period. The OHs were graded into high, medium, and low risk groups. 69% of glaucomatous patients and 32% of all OHs had CCS thresholds greater than the mean plus 2 SDs of the controls. Satisfactory specificity and sensitivity could not be obtained by adjusting the criterion of threshold. In abnormal eyes, progressive small increases of threshold occurred during the study, but glaucomatous eyes with normal thresholds on the first visit retained normal thresholds in the subsequent visits. Although our system is very sensitive and precise, the proportion of abnormalities detected is no greater than with other techniques. In some glaucomatous patients there is a true preservation of colour vision which does not merely reflect the limitations of the test employed.
High correlation between absolute psychophysical threshold and the scotopic threshold response to the same stimulus.	The scotopic threshold response (STR) is a negative potential to low intensity light recorded from the dark-adapted retina. It reflects inner retinal function. The STR is now recorded routinely as part of our electroretinography protocol. The projected absolute threshold calculated from the amplitude versus intensity function for the STR has been found to correlate well (r = 0.59) with the absolute subjective threshold to the same stimulus. The correlation holds for about 1.5 log units above normal. With further elevation the STR is usually abnormal or absent as b wave threshold is approached. The correlation would have been much greater were it not for this truncated range over which both are recordable. This report includes our findings in 127 patients and examines several disease groups. When the STR had a reduced and abnormal intensity series or was absent, the subjective threshold was elevated in almost all cases (92.2%). The converse relationship also held. When there was a discrepancy, recording problems were usually identified. Since the STR requires difficult, time consuming signal averaging for reliable recording, it may be adequate to record the subjective threshold alone to provide a relatively easily recordable indicator of inner retinal function. Additional STR recording will seldom be warranted.
Sensorial and intestinointestinal reflex pathways in the human jejunum.	Using an intestinal barostat that maintains a constant pressure within an air-filled bag (12 cm long), the authors have previously shown reflex changes in intestinal tone induced by distention. The aim of this study was to investigate the sensitivity and the responsiveness to such reflexes along the jejunum. Eight healthy volunteers were studied using two barostats operating simultaneously in the proximal and the distal jejunum (located 10 cm and 52 cm caudad to the ligament of Treitz, respectively). With one barostat, standardized distentions (1 minute duration at 10-minute intervals in 4-mm Hg increments) were produced; with the other barostat, intestinal tone was measured as volumetric variations at constant pressure. Perception was scored (0-6) by a questionnaire. The proximal jejunum relaxed in response to distention of the distal jejunum (mean +/- SE, 40% + 7% delta vol; 5.1 + 0.1 perception score at the threshold for discomfort; P less than 0.05 for both). In contrast, the distal jejunum did not respond to distention of the proximal jejunum, whereas the perception scores were similar (10% +/- 5% delta vol; 5.1 +/- 0.1 perception score). Thus, the responsiveness of the proximal jejunum to intestinointestinal reflexes fades distally, whereas intestinal sensitivity to distention remains uniform.
Quantitative determination of corneal sensitivity in idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia and after neurosurgical interventions on the trigeminal nerve]	The purpose of our study was to determine, by use of the electronic Draeger esthesiometer in quantitative, reproductive measurements, the corneal sensitivity in 55 patients with medically treated idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia before and after surgical treatment of the trigeminal nerve and root. 37 patients were included in a prospective study with measurements before and after glycerol rhizotomy, radiofrequency rhizotomy and microvascular decompression (MVD) of the trigeminal root. Moreover, 18 patients were examined retrospectively 7 to 17 years after retrogasserian rhizotomy according to Spiller/Frazier. Corneal sensitivity was determined by the mean value of 3 measurements in each of 5 positions on both eyes. Evaluation of data leads to the following conclusions: In case of neuralgia in the V1 and V2 divisions, corneal sensitivity may decrease without any clinical manifestation. The hypothesis that V2 contributes to corneal innervation got further evidence. Microvascular decompression may lead to a severe decrease of corneal sensitivity. In terms of complications concerning sensory loss of cornea, radiofrequency rhizotomy was the less risky treatment, followed by glycerol rhizotomy, MVD and the retrogasserian rhizotomy according to Spiller/Frazier. Sensitivity affected by prior medical or surgical treatment does not necessarily decrease by further surgical therapy. Postoperatively up to six weeks, corneal sensitivity remained almost the same as shortly after surgical procedure. Keratitis was observed in only one case retrospectively.
Neuroanatomical correlates of olfactory performance.	We investigated associations between olfactory function and gray matter thickness in 46 healthy young subjects by means of an automated technique for measuring cortical thickness. We used an extended version of the Sniffin' Sticks test to assess olfactory function, including odor threshold, concentration discrimination, quality discrimination, and odor identification. We observed a correlation between olfactory performance and cortical thickness of structures involved in earlier and later stages of chemosensory processing such as right medial orbitofrontal cortex, right insula, and adjacent cortex. Furthermore, we found significant bilateral correlations of olfactory performance with cortical thickness of areas around the central sulcus bilaterally, structures responsible for voluntary respiration and sniffing. In addition to expected general sex effects on cortical thickness, we observed areas, such as the entorhinal cortex, occipital cortex, intraparietal sulcus and insula (all in the right hemisphere), where the correlation between higher order olfactory functions and cortical thickness differed between women and men. These data demonstrate, for some neuroanatomical structures, a link between cortical thickness and olfactory function, in that thicker cortex is usually associated with better performance, but not always. This association between anatomy and olfactory performance suggests a possible biological explanation for the high degree of individual differences and sex effects observed in higher order olfactory tasks.
Predicted sensory feedback derived from motor commands  does not improve haptic sensitivity.	Haptic perception is based on the integration of afferent proprioceptive and tactile signals. A further potential source of information during active touch is predicted sensory feedback (PSF) derived from a copy of efferent motor commands that give rise to the exploratory actions. There is substantial evidence that PSF is important for predicting the sensory consequences of action, but its role in perception is unknown. Theoretically, PSF leads to a higher redundancy of haptic information, which should improve sensitivity of the haptic sense. To investigate the effect of PSF on haptic precision, blindfolded subjects haptically explored the curved contour of a virtual object generated by a robotic manipulandum. They either actively moved their hand along the contour, or their hand was moved passively by the device along the same contour. In the active condition afferent sensory information and PSF were present, while in the passive condition subjects relied solely on afferent information. In each trial, two stimuli of different curvature were presented. Subjects needed to indicate which of the two was more "curved" (forced choice). For each condition, the detection and three discrimination thresholds were computed. The main finding is that absence of efference copy information did not systematically degrade haptic acuity. This indirectly implies that PSF does not aid or enhance haptic perception. We conclude that when maximum haptic sensitivity is required to explore novel objects, the perceptual system relies primarily on afferent tactile and proprioceptive information, and PSF has no added effect on the precision of the perceptual estimate.
Functional properties of low-threshold mechanoreceptive afferents in the human labial mucosa.	We used microneurography to investigate the functional properties of low-threshold mechanoreceptive afferents innervating the oral mucosa of the inside of the lower lip. Impulse responses were recorded from the inferior alveolar nerve of four human subjects. The threshold force and receptive field boundaries were identified for 19 single mechanoreceptive afferents using thin filaments (von Frey hairs) that applied known forces to the mucosa. Most of the receptive fields were located close to the corners of the mouth. Twelve of the afferents were slowly adapting (SA) and the remaining seven units were fast adapting (FA). Two types of slowly adapting responses were observed, SA I and SA II. Four of the six SA II units were spontaneously active. The geometric mean value of the receptive field sizes was 4.20 mm(2) for the SA I units, 5.65 mm(2) for the SA II units, and 5.60 mm(2) for the FA I units. None of the FA afferents showed response properties characteristic of Pacinian-corpuscle type afferents (FA II units). All afferents showed low force threshold between 0.06 and 1 mN. The properties of the mechanoreceptors supplying the human labial mucosa appear more similar to those of the vermilion and facial skin of the lower lip than those supplying the mucosa of the dorsal tongue.
Effect of intraesophageal location and muscarinic blockade on balloon distension-induced chest pain.	Intraesophageal balloon distension has been introduced recently as a provocative test in the assessment of patients with noncardiac chest pain. In order to examine the effect of balloon location and muscarinic blockade on distension-induced pain, 10 asymptomatic male volunteers were studied on two separate days using a low-compliance perfused manometry system that incorporated a silicone rubber balloon. Five-second-duration balloon distensions using balloon volumes of 2.5, 5, 7.5, and 10 ml of air were performed with the balloon located both 16 cm (proximal site) and 6 cm (distal site) above the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) before and after administration of atropine (10 micrograms/kg intravenously) or placebo in a randomized double-blind fashion. A standardized scoring system was used to assess the balloon distension-induced pain. Pain scores varied directly with balloon volume but were consistently higher with the balloon located at the proximal site versus the distal site. This was not associated with any differences in intraballoon pressures between the two sites; however, contraction amplitude orad to the balloon was greater with balloon distension at the proximal site. Atropine significantly decreased pain sensation scores with the balloon located distally but not proximally. This attenuation was not associated with significant changes in intraballoon pressures; however, contractions orad to the balloon were markedly inhibited by atropine with distal but not with proximal distension. These studies indicate that balloon distension-induced pain varies depending on the location of distension. This difference is not explained by differences in esophageal wall tension at the site of distension.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Changes in anal canal sensation after childbirth.	Obstetic trauma predisposes to faecal incontinence. Anal canal sensation is impaired in incontinent patients. To assess the effect of childbirth on anal canal sensation anal mucosal electrosensitivity was measured in 122 primiparous patients in the immediate postnatal period and in 74 at 6 months postpartum. There were 35 normal vaginal deliveries, 36 forceps deliveries, 20 ventouse extractions, ten vaginal breech deliveries and 21 caesarean sections. Sensation was impaired in the lower, mid and upper anal canal immediately after delivery in those patients who had a normal vaginal delivery or a forceps delivery when compared with controls or with those delivered by caesarean section. Women who had ventouse deliveries had impaired sensation immediately after delivery in the mid anal canal compared with controls and those undergoing caesarean section. By 6 months there were no differences between any group. Patients who sustained a division of the external anal sphincter at delivery had impaired sensation which persisted in the upper anal canal at 6 months.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging with ultra-high fields]	Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is currently the primary method for non-invasive functional localization in the brain. With the emergence of MR systems with field strengths of 4 Tesla and above, neuronal activation may be studied with unprecedented accuracy. In this article we present different approaches to use the improved sensitivity and specificity for expanding current fMRT resolution limits in space and time based on several 7 Tesla studies. In addition to the challenges that arise with ultra-high magnetic fields possible solutions will be discussed.
Orientation specificity of learning vernier discriminations.	Orientation selective neurons in the primary visual cortex typically respond to a range of orientations that covers 20 degrees or more, while in psychophysical experiments, orientation bandwidth is often clearly narrower. Here, we measure the orientation specificity of perceptual learning for vernier discriminations. More than 70 observers, in separate groups, practiced a vernier discrimination task with a constant stimulus orientation. After a 1h session of training, the vernier was rotated by 2 degrees, 4 degrees, 10 degrees, 20 degrees, 45 degrees or 90 degrees. Improvement through training in the first session transferred to the second session (tested on the next day) up to 10 degrees of stimulus rotation. We found no transfer for rotations of 20 degrees, 45 degrees and 90 degrees. Hence, the orientation half-bandwidth of perceptual learning is around 15 degrees, leading to a bandwidth of 30 degrees and corresponding to that of single neurons in early visual cortices, while being narrower than that in higher cortical areas.
Sensations during chest tube removal.	Nurses prepare patients for chest tube removal, yet little has been written to indicate the sensations to be expected during this routine procedure. The sensations reported by patients and factors that could influence those sensations were examined in this study. The sample consisted of 36 patients after thoracic surgery (24 men and 12 women), all of whom were scheduled to have either a mediastinal or a pleural tube removed. They reported their sensations and the intensity of those sensations (using a 100 mm visual analog scale) within 15 minutes after tube removal. The most frequently reported sensation during chest tube removal was burning, followed by pain and pulling with mean intensities of 64, 62, and 45, respectively. Subjects reported having few sensations after the tube was removed with only five reporting soreness in the chest. The sensations and intensities did not differ for those who did and did not receive analgesia or for those having a pleural tube versus a mediastinal tube removed. The sensations were similar for the old and young subjects with younger subjects reporting higher intensities. Women reported pain more frequently than men, but the intensities of the sensations reported by men and women were not significantly different. The sensations reported during chest tube removal differ from those described in the literature and can be used to prepare patients more appropriately for chest tube removal.
Dreaming: cognitive processes during cortical activation and high afferent thresholds.	The concepts of nonlocal, or distributed, cortical and cognitive activation are examined for their usefulness in describing the relations between sleep and waking neurocognitive processes. Changes in the pattern of distributed activation and inhibition of selected portions of sensory, cognitive, and motor decision modules account for the differences in imagery and thought across sleep and waking states in comparable environments. The massive inhibition of sensory and proprioceptive input to perceptual modules in Stage 1 REM sleep leaves the perceptual and cognitive modules, by default, with their own output as their sole input. Given this constraint, the activation of portions of the cortical structures that execute waking perceptual, cognitive and motor responses is necessary and sufficient to produce the imagery and thought of dreaming sleep. Connectionist models are introduced so that neurophysiological and cognitive concepts of distributed and local activation and inhibition can be translated into a common language, and in so doing, are used to simulate several processes fundamental to the production of imaginal thought and dreaming.
When orthogonal orientations are not processed independently.	We studied the extent to which two gratings, superimposed at orthogonal orientations, are processed independently in making spatial frequency discriminations. Our findings suggest that independence is not preserved in this task, and that it breaks down in two distinct ways: (1) judgments about one component are reduced in accuracy by the presence of the second; and (2) information about the two component gratings is not used independently in making judgments about the compound stimulus formed by them. These results place constraints on the applicability of models that assume information from spatially tuned mechanisms is directly available in performing a discrimination task.
Human perception of structure from motion.	Novel dynamic random-do displays representing a rotating cylinder or a noise-field were used to investigate the perception of structure from motion (SFM) in humans. The finite lifetimes of the points allowed the study of spatiotemporal characteristics with smoothly moving stimuli. In one set of experiments subjects had to detect the change from the unstructured motion to the appearance of the cylinder in a reaction time task. In another set of experiments subjects had to distinguish these two stimuli in a two-alternative forced-choice task. The two major findings were: (1) a relatively constant point lifetime threshold (50-85 msec) for perceiving structure from motion. This threshold is similar to the threshold for estimating velocity and suggests that velocity measurements are used to process SFM; (2) long reaction times for detecting structure (approximately 1 sec). The build-up of performance with time and with increasing numbers of points reflects a process of temporal and spatial integration. We propose that this integration is achieved through the generation of a surface representation of the object. Information from single features on the object appears to be used to interpolate a surface between these local measurements allowing the system to improve perception over extended periods of time even though each feature is present only briefly. Selective masking of the stimulus produced characteristic impairments which suggest that both velocity measurements and surface interpolation are global processes.
Contrast sensitivity of optokinetic nystagmus.	To determine the threshold characteristics of optokinetic nystagmus (OKN), contrast thresholds for involuntary OKN were measured for gratings of different spatial frequency to yield an OKN-contrast sensitivity function (OKN-CSF). The OKN-CSF resembled an inverted U-shaped function with temporal-to-nasal and nasal-to-temporal movement yielding similar functions. In addition, when psychophysical CSFs were determined for separate form and movement thresholds, it was discovered that the OKN-CSF approximated the psychophysical-movement CSF rather than the psychophysical-form CSF.
A horizontal stripe of displacement sensitivity in the human visual field.	Displacement thresholds of peripheral sites in monocular human vision were obtained. The average of 12 directional thresholds at different visual field sites was used to define isometric lines of average displacement threshold about central vision. Isometric lines extended further into the temporal visual fields along the horizontal meridian than along other meridians. At any single site in the peripheral visual field the thresholds were not the same in all directions; they were larger toward and away from central vision. These two psychophysical findings vary in a qualitatively similar manner across the retinal field, as does the average size and the collected orientation bias of dendritic fields of retinal ganglion cells.
Anorectal function after long-term transanal colonic irrigation.	The increased use of transanal colonic irrigation (TAI) warrants study of its effects on anorectal function after long term use.
Somatosensory-related gamma-, beta- and alpha-augmentation precedes alpha- and beta-attenuation in humans.	Several human studies have demonstrated that the amplitudes of cortical oscillations are altered by various sensorimotor and cognitive tasks. Event-related augmentation of gamma oscillations and attenuation of alpha and beta oscillations have been often used as surrogate markers of cortical activation elicited by tasks especially in presurgical identification of eloquent cortices. In the present study, we addressed a question whether somatosensory-related gamma augmentation 'precedes' or 'co-occurs with' somatosensory-related attenuation of alpha-beta oscillations.
Differential roles of stretch-sensitive pelvic nerve afferents innervating mouse distal colon and rectum.	Information about colorectal distension (i.e., colorectal dilation by increased intraluminal pressure) is primarily encoded by stretch-sensitive colorectal afferents in the pelvic nerve (PN). Despite anatomic differences between rectum and distal colon, little is known about the functional roles of colonic vs. rectal afferents in the PN pathway or the quantitative nature of mechanosensory encoding. We utilized an in vitro mouse colorectum-PN preparation to investigate pressure-encoding characteristics of colorectal afferents. The colorectum with PN attached was dissected, opened longitudinally, and pinned flat in a Sylgard-lined chamber. Action potentials of afferent fibers evoked by circumferential stretch (servo-controlled force actuator) were recorded from the PN. Stretch-sensitive fibers were categorized into the following four groups: colonic muscular, colonic muscular/mucosal, rectal muscular, and rectal muscular/mucosal. Seventy-nine stretch-sensitive PN afferents evenly distributed into the above four groups were studied. Rectal muscular afferents had significantly greater stretch-responses than the other three groups. Virtually all rectal afferents (98%) had low thresholds for response and encoded stimulus intensity into the noxious range without obvious saturation. Most colonic afferents (72%) also had low thresholds (<14 mmHg), but a significant proportion (28%) had high thresholds (>18 mmHg) for response. These high-threshold colonic afferents were sensitized to stretch by inflammatory soup; response threshold was significantly reduced (from 23 to 12 mmHg), and response magnitude significantly increased. These results suggest that the encoding of mechanosensory information differs between colonic and rectal stretch-sensitive PN afferents. Rectal afferents have a wide response range to stretch, whereas high-threshold colonic afferents likely contribute to visceral nociception.
The effect of optotype presentation duration on acuity estimates revisited.	A high reproducibility of visual acuity estimates is important when monitoring disease progression or treatment success. One factor that may affect the result of an acuity measurement is the duration of optotype presentation. For times below 1 s, previous studies have convincingly shown that acuity estimates increase with presentation duration. For durations above 1 s, the situation is less clear.
Phosphene thresholds evoked with single and double TMS pulses.	To evaluate the quantitative advantage of double pulses vs. single pulses in TMS phosphenes evoked from the occipital cortex.
Temporal resolution and spectral sensitivity of the visual system of three coastal shark species from different light environments.	Visual temporal resolution and scotopic spectral sensitivity of three coastal shark species (bonnethead Sphyrna tiburo, scalloped hammerhead Sphyrna lewini, and blacknose shark Carcharhinus acronotus) were investigated by electroretinogram. Temporal resolution was quantified under photopic and scotopic conditions using response waveform dynamics and maximum critical flicker-fusion frequency (CFF). Photopic CFF(max) was significantly higher than scotopic CFF(max) in all species. The bonnethead had the shortest photoreceptor response latency time (23.5 ms) and the highest CFF(max) (31 Hz), suggesting that its eyes are adapted for a bright photic environment. In contrast, the blacknose had the longest response latency time (34.8 ms) and lowest CFF(max) (16 Hz), indicating its eyes are adapted for a dimmer environment or nocturnal lifestyle. Scotopic spectral sensitivity revealed maximum peaks (480 nm) in the bonnethead and blacknose sharks that correlated with environmental spectra measured during twilight, which is a biologically relevant period of heightened predation.
Regeneration of the projection and synaptic connections of tympanic receptor fibers of Locusta migratoria (Orthoptera) after axotomy.	The tergite nerve N6 of the first abdominal segment of the locust Locusta migratoria contains receptor fibers, from the tympanic organ, and hair sensilla as well as motoric axons. The nerve was axotomized in nymphal instars or adults, and the regeneration of nerve fibers was studied. The sensory fibers regrow and regenerate their projection pattern within the central nervous system. They recognize their specific neuropile areas even after entering the ganglion through different pathways. The receptor fibers of the tympanic organ reestablish synaptic connections to auditory interneurons, even though the physiological characteristics of the interneurons are not fully restored. This regenerative capability contrasts with the lack of regeneration of peripheral structures in locusts, but supports the described plasticity in the auditory system of monaural locusts (Lakes, Kalmring, and Engelhard, 1990). The motor fibers do not regenerate nerves innervating muscles of the body wall.
Spatial summation determines the contrast response of displacement threshold hyperacuity.	The effect of line length on displacement threshold hyperacuity at various levels of contrast was investigated. At high contrasts there was no significant effect of line length, but as contrast was reduced thresholds for shorter line lengths increased rapidly. Thresholds at longer line lengths demonstrated a form of contrast saturation which differed from vernier acuity whose thresholds increased consistently with a reduction in contrast. As line length in the displacement threshold task was reduced, the amount of contrast saturation became less and displacement thresholds therefore resembled the contrast response of vernier acuity. Results are explained in terms of spatial summation along the length of the lines, the effects of which depend upon the spatial configuration of the hyperacuity stimulus under consideration.
Temporal phase response of the short-wave cone signal for color and luminance.	A chromatic discrimination paradigm was used to measure the temporal phase of the S (short-wave cone) signal relative to the L--M (long-wave cone minus middle-wave cone) signal. Suprathreshold equiluminant red-green flicker that stimulates the L--M mechanism was presented on a steady, intense yellow-green adapting field. Violet flicker that stimulates the S cones was added to the red-green flicker at different temporal phase angles, and the violet modulation depth was varied to achieve a chromatic discrimination threshold. A template was fitted to the data relating thresholds to phase: the location of the template symmetry axis showed that the S signal lagged L--M by about 75-90 degrees at 10 Hz. This is about one half the phase lag obtained for luminance or motion discrimination. The phase discrepancy shows that there are separate luminance and chromatic mechanisms receiving S cone inputs. The hue of the flicker in the present study varied strongly with phase angle, with the positive and negative excursions of the S cone signal producing a reddish-blue and greenish-yellow, respectively, and these colors combined with the reddish and greenish hues produced by the L--M signal. The observed phase shift, and measured color appearance of the combined flicker, account for the colors seen on a radially segmented disk of Munsell hues when rotated: the colors differ strikingly depending on the direction of rotation.
A model for contrast discrimination with incremental and decremental test patches.	Whittle [Vision Research, 26, 1677 (1986)] has shown that the metric of contrast W = delta L/Lmin (delta L = difference in luminance between test patch and background, Lmin = the smaller of the luminance of the background or test patch) is able to provide a unifying description of the pattern of contrast discrimination thresholds for pairs of test patches set against a common background. In particular the metric W unifies the pattern of discrimination thresholds for both increment and decrement pairs. We argue that while W provides a good mathematical description of Whittle's data it is functionally implausible since it implies that the component of the stimulus which sets the adaptational level for increments is different from that which sets the adaptational level for decrements. We argue that the metric G = ln(L/Lb) (L = test patch luminance, Lb = background luminance) is physiologically more plausible than W and show that G can provide at least as good a fit as W to Whittle's data when incorporated in a transfer function of the form RG = kG1-n, with n set to 0.69. The fit to the data can be improved still further if a parameter representing the non-linearity in the gain-luminance function at low luminances is included in the RG equation. The theoretical implications for retinal gain mechanisms are discussed.
Perceived speed of moving two-dimensional patterns.	When two cosine gratings drifting in different directions are superimposed they can form a coherently moving two-dimensional pattern (plaid) whose resultant speed is related to the component velocities by a geometric construction known as the intersection-of-constraints (IOC). When measured against a standard which has the same spatial frequency as its components, a plaid always appears to move slower than the IOC prediction. However, the perceived speed is generally faster than would be predicted if speed were judged based on the temporal frequency of either the components or the nodes of the plaid. On the other hand, when the standard has the same spatial period as the nodes, the plaid appears to move at the same rate as the predicted IOC resultant. Furthermore, a grating with the same spatial period as the nodes appears to move slower than a grating at the component spatial frequency, just the plaid does. It is therefore likely that speed is encoded similarly for both gratings and plaids, and that the perceived speed of both is determined by the spatial periodicity of the pattern. We have previously classified 2D moving patterns as either type I (resultant lies between component directions) or type II (resultant outside of components). We find that the perceived speed of both types can be accounted for on the basis of the nodal spatial period. Finally we present a model for velocity coding which is based on the responses of spatio-temporal mechanisms.
Visual sensitivity to spatially sampled modulation in human observers.	Thresholds were measured for detecting spatial luminance modulation in regular lattices of visually discrete dots. Thresholds for modulation of a lattice are generally higher than the corresponding threshold for modulation of a continuous field, and the size of the threshold elevation, which depends on the spacing of the lattice elements, can be as large as a one log unit. The largest threshold elevations are seen when the sample spacing is 12 min arc or greater. These results are similar to those observed by Burr, Ross and Morrone [Vision Research, 25, 717-727 (1985)], who proposed an explanation based on a compressive point nonlinearity. Although their explanation is not consistent with the present data, the results may be explained in terms of nonlinear saturation of a spatially opponent stage early in the visual pathway. Theories based on response compression cannot explain the further observation that the threshold elevations due to spatial sampling are also dependent on modulation frequency: the greatest elevations occur with higher modulation frequencies. The idea that this is due to masking of the modulation frequency by the spatial frequencies in the sampling lattice is considered.
The temporal integration and resolution of velocity signals.	The temporal properties of human visual motion detection were explored. Experiment 1 measured thresholds for speed discrimination as a function of stimulus duration. Thresholds fell asymptotically to a Weber fraction around 0.06 over a period of approx. 100 msec, with faster speeds asymptoting at slightly shorter stimulus durations. A second experiment required subjects to discriminate a pattern that was modulated between two speeds from one which remained at a constant speed. The minimum depth of the modulation required to make this judgement was found to be equivalent to a Weber fraction of 0.3 at low modulation rates, around five times greater than when the velocities were presented in isolation (expt 1). At some higher modulation rate performance dramatically declined. The modulation rate at which this occurred decreased with stimulus speed, and increased with stimulus size. The results of expt 1 seem consistent with the known properties of primary motion sensors, while the results of the latter experiments may arise from a later stage integrating the output of these primary motion sensors.
Situational and psychophysiological factors in psychologically induced pain.	To investigate pain that occurs in the absence of painful stimulation, normal subjects were connected to a sham stimulator and were told that a headache could occur as a result of the electrical current they would receive. Half of the subjects who received this suggestion reported pain. The frequency and intensity of pain reports in a group which was given prior pain experience as a reference point in reporting pain and in a group which was exposed to a manipulation designed to reduce intentional deception were not significantly different from the pain reports of a group not exposed to these manipulations. The frequency of pain reports in subjects not connected to the sham stimulator but still asked to report pain was 25% which was significantly less than the frequency for subjects who were told there would be stimulation to the head. Pain ratings increased as the settings of the sham stimulator were increased. Subjects who reported pain had significantly fewer electrodermal responses to tones signaling them to prepare for a reaction time task. The results suggest that pain can be produced in the absence of peripheral stimulation. The pain does not appear to be due to intentional deception or the lack of a standard for comparison, but is strongly influenced by environmental cues. Psychophysiologically, pain responders were less attentive to signal stimuli.
Lingual vibrotactile threshold shift during magnitude-estimation scaling: effects on magnitude-estimation responses and scaling behavior across age.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of age on tactile threshold shifts occurring during magnitude-estimation scaling of vibratory stimuli presented to the dorsal surface of the tongue. Relationships of the lingual vibrotactile threshold shifts to suprathreshold stimulus intensity, magnitude-estimation responses, and over-all scaling behavior were explored. Three groups differing in mean age participated in this study (Group 1 8.05 yr., Group 2 19.46 yr., and Group 3 56.2 yr.). Each subject performed two magnitude-estimation tasks. In one task, threshold of sensitivity was measured after every suprathreshold numerical response to the subject. If a threshold shift was recorded, threshold was allowed to return to the pretest baseline level continuing to the next suprathreshold stimulus presentation. The results showed that threshold shift during magnitude-estimation scaling took place for all three age groups and that the shift was related to the intensity of the suprathreshold vibratory stimulus being applied to the tongue. They also showed that Group 2 (young adults) performed magnitude-estimation scaling differently when threshold shift was controlled than when it was not. The other two groups of subjects were not similarly affected.
Accuracy of weightbearing at three target levels during bilateral upright stance in patients with neuropathic feet and control subjects.	The purposes of this study were to (1) describe errors in weightbearing at three target levels for patients with neuropathic feet and control subjects, (2) compare the absolute errors at the three target levels between groups, and (3) identify predictor variables of errors in weightbearing by the neuropathic group. The groups of 26 subjects were matched for age and height. Weightbearing was measured with digital scales while subjects attempted to adjust their weight through a designated lower extremity to each target level (25, 50, and 75% of body weight). Analysis of variance indicated no significant difference in the percentage weightbearing between groups at the three target levels. There was a significant difference in errors made in weightbearing by the groups at the three target levels. Mean errors ranged from 8.5 to 9.7% for the neuropathic group and from 2.4 to 6.6% for the control group. The findings cast doubt on the utility (in the absence of feedback) of requesting individuals, particularly those with neuropathic feet, to weightbear at specific target levels.
An informational approach to sensory adaptation.	Concepts from information theory can enhance our understanding of perceptual processes by providing a unified picture of the process of perception. A single equation is shown to embrace adaptation phenomena, stimulus-response relations, and differential thresholds. Sensory adaptation is regarded as representing a gain in information by the receptor. It is calculated that for constant stimuli in the form of step inputs, insects and arachnids obtain approximately the same amount of information per stimulus from their respective environments as do human beings.
Directional sensitivity along the upper limb in humans.	The capacity of four neurologically healthy young adults to distinguish opposing directions of cutaneous motion was determined at five different sites along the proximal-distal axis of the upper limb. Constant-velocity brushing stimuli (ranging from 0.5 to 32.0 cm/sec) were delivered through an aperture in a Teflon plate that was securely positioned in light contact with the skin. In one series of experiments, directional sensitivity in d' units was assessed at each site, using an aperture length of 0.75 cm. In a second series of experiments, the aperture length required to obtain the same criterion level of directional sensitivity at each site was determined. To attain the sensitivity reached at distal sites, a proximal stimulus had to traverse a longer chord of skin. Specifically, chords 5.9 times longer on average (range = 5.4-6.2) were required on the proximal forearm than on the index finger pad. This finding suggests that relative directional sensitivity increases sixfold from the proximal forearm to the finger pad. Moreover, relative directional sensitivity on the shoulder was comparable to that observed on the proximal forearm for two of the subjects, and approximately one-half that observed on the proximal forearm for the other two subjects. In addition to such a prominent spatial gradient in relative directional sensitivity, the velocity of stimulus motion at which directional sensitivity was highest increased systematically as the test site was shifted from the finger pad to the proximal forearm. Specifically, the optimal velocity on the finger pad varied among subjects from 1.5 to 9.4 cm/sec (mean = 5.4 cm/sec), and on the proximal forearm from 11.5 to 31.2 cm/sec (mean = 18.6 cm/sec). The optimal velocity on the shoulder was not significantly different from that observed on the proximal forearm. The results suggest that effective and informed clinical testing of patients' capacity to distinguish opposing directions of motion on cutaneous regions that differ in peripheral innervation density requires appreciation of the sensitivities of different skin regions, as well as the unique velocity dependency of direction discrimination at each skin site.
On brain's magnetic responses to sensory stimuli.	Magnetoencephalography (MEG) as a tool to study the brain's responses to external stimuli is briefly reviewed. The introduction of multichannel superconducting quantum interference device magnetometers with over 20 sensors is now revolutionizing MEG recordings, and data are starting to accumulate about the functions of different sensory systems. Magnetic evoked responses also can be used in clinical assessment of the integrity of sensory pathways.
Temporal interactions during paired-electrode stimulation in two retinal prosthesis subjects.	Since 2002, six blind patients have undergone implantation of an epiretinal 4  4 electrode array designed to directly stimulate the remaining cells of the retina after severe photoreceptor degeneration due to retinitis pigmentosa. This study was conducted to investigate how the brightness of percepts is affected by pulse timing across electrodes in two of these patients.
Awareness and filling-in of the human blind spot: linking psychophysics with retinal topography.	To link psychophysical thresholds for blind spot awareness and filling-in with early neural components that underpin these perceptions.
No interaction of first- and second-order signals in the extraction of global-motion and optic-flow.	Edwards and Badcock (Vision Research 35, 2589, 1995) argued for independent first-order (FO) and second-order (SO) motion systems up to and including the global-motion level. That study used luminance (which they called FO) and contrast (SO) modulated dots. They found that SO noise dots did not mask signal extraction with luminance increment dots while luminance increment dots did mask SO signal extraction. However, they argued this asymmetry was not due to a combined FO-SO pathway, but rather due to the fact that the luminance-modulated dots, being also local variations in contrast, are both FO and SO stimuli. We test their claim of FO and SO independence by using a stimulus that can generate pure FO and SO signals, specifically one consisting of multiple Gabors (the global-Gabor stimulus) in which the Gaussian envelopes are static and the carriers drift. The carrier can either be luminance-modulated (FO) or contrast-modulated (SO) and motion signals from the randomly-oriented local Gabors must be combined to detect the global-motion vector. Results show no cross-masking of FO and SO signals, thus supporting the hypothesis of independent FO and SO systems up to and including the level extracting optic-flow.
Mislocalization of near-threshold tactile stimuli in humans: a central or peripheral phenomenon?	Principles of brain function can be disclosed by studying their limits during performance. Tactile stimuli with near-threshold intensities have been used to assess features of somatosensory processing. When stimulating fingers of one hand using near-threshold intensities, localization errors are observed that deviate significantly from responses obtained by guessing - incorrectly located stimuli are attributed more often to fingers neighbouring the stimulated one than to more distant fingers. Two hypotheses to explain the findings are proposed. The 'central hypothesis' posits that the degree of overlap of cortical tactile representations depends on stimulus intensity, with representations less separated for near-threshold stimuli than for suprathreshold stimuli. The 'peripheral hypothesis' assumes that systematic mislocalizations are due to activation of different sets of skin receptors with specific thresholds. The present experiments were designed to decide between the two hypotheses. Taking advantage of the frequency tuning of somatosensory receptors, their contribution to systematic misclocalizations was studied. In the first experiment, mislocalization profiles were investigated using vibratory stimuli with frequencies of 10, 20 and 100 Hz. Unambiguous mislocalization effects were only obtained for the 10-Hz stimulation, precluding the involvement of Pacinian corpuscles in systematic mislocalization. In the second experiment, Pacinian corpuscles were functionally eliminated by applying a constant 100-Hz vibratory masking stimulus together with near-threshold pulses. Despite masking, systematic mislocation patterns were observed rendering the involvement of Pacinian corpuscles unlikely. The results of both experiments are in favor of the 'central hypothesis' assuming that the extent of overlap in somatosensory representations is modulated by stimulus intensity.
Cold perception and cutaneous microvascular response to local cooling at different cooling temperatures.	The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of quantitatively measured cold perception (CP) thresholds on microcirculatory response to local cooling as measured by direct and indirect response of laser-Doppler (LD) flux during local cooling at different temperatures. The CP thresholds were measured in 18 healthy males using the Marstock method (thermode placed on the thenar). The direct (at the cooling site) and indirect (on contralateral hand) LD flux responses were recorded during immersion of the hand in a water bath at 20C, 15C, and 10C. The cold perception threshold correlated (linear regression analysis, Pearson correlation) with the indirect LD flux response at cooling temperatures 20C (r=0.782, p<0.01) and 15C (r=0.605, p<0.01). In contrast, there was no correlation between the CP threshold and the indirect LD flux response during cooling in water at 10C. The results demonstrate that during local cooling, depending on the cooling temperature used, cold perception threshold influences indirect LD flux response.
The absolute threshold of cone vision.	We report measurements of the absolute threshold of cone vision, which has been previously underestimated due to suboptimal conditions or overly strict subjective response criteria. We avoided these limitations by using optimized stimuli and experimental conditions while having subjects respond within a rating scale framework. Small (1' fwhm), brief (34 ms), monochromatic (550 nm) stimuli were foveally presented at multiple intensities in dark-adapted retina for 5 subjects. For comparison, 4 subjects underwent similar testing with rod-optimized stimuli. Cone absolute threshold, that is, the minimum light energy for which subjects were just able to detect a visual stimulus with any response criterion, was 203  38 photons at the cornea, ~0.47 log unit lower than previously reported. Two-alternative forced-choice measurements in a subset of subjects yielded consistent results. Cone thresholds were less responsive to criterion changes than rod thresholds, suggesting a limit to the stimulus information recoverable from the cone mosaic in addition to the limit imposed by Poisson noise. Results were consistent with expectations for detection in the face of stimulus uncertainty. We discuss implications of these findings for modeling the first stages of human cone vision and interpreting psychophysical data acquired with adaptive optics at the spatial scale of the receptor mosaic.
Proximal and distal esophageal sensitivity is decreased in patients with Barrett's esophagus.	To investigate sensations to multimodal pain stimulation in the metaplastic and normal parts of the esophagus in patients with Barrett's esophagus (BE).
Clinical evaluation of peripheral trigeminal nerve injuries.	This article presents a standardized method of clinical evaluation of the patient with a peripheral trigeminal nerve injury that provides both subjective and objective information. This evaluation scheme has been used by 1 author for more than 30 years (RAM) and by the other author (SCB) for 10 years. The information is easily obtained and recorded in the patient's record, and it can be used by any clinician who performs subsequent evaluations on the same patient. The NST methods have been used successfully by specialists in other surgical disciplines for many years, and the various test results have been found to be closely correlated with the injuries found when the responsible nerve was surgically explored.Alternate testing methods or equipment are available that are used primarily in clinical and laboratory research rather than clinical practice. The reader who is interested in more information is encouraged to consult (Further Readings).
Exogenous and endogenous attention during perceptual learning differentially affect post-training target thresholds.	There is conflicting evidence in the literature regarding the role played by attention in perceptual learning. To further examine this issue, we independently manipulated exogenous and endogenous attention and measured the rate of perceptual learning of oriented Gabor patches presented in different quadrants of the visual field. In this way, we could track learning at attended, divided-attended, and unattended locations. We also measured contrast thresholds of the Gabor patches before and after training. Our results showed that, for both exogenous and endogenous attention, accuracy in performing the orientation discrimination improved to a greater extent at attended than at unattended locations. Importantly, however, only exogenous attention resulted in improved contrast thresholds. These findings suggest that both exogenous and endogenous attention facilitate perceptual learning, but that these two types of attention may be mediated by different neural mechanisms.
Spatial non-homogeneity of the antagonistic surround in motion perception.	At high contrast, duration thresholds for motion direction discrimination deteriorate with increasing stimulus size. This counterintuitive result has been explained by the center-surround antagonism present in the neurons of visual area MT. Conversely, at very low contrast, direction discrimination improves with increasing size, a result that has been explained by spatial summation. In this investigation, we study the effects of stimulus shape and contrast on center-surround antagonism. Using adaptive Bayesian staircases, we measured duration thresholds of 5 subjects for vertically oriented Gabor patches of 1 cycle/deg with two types of oval Gaussian windows, one vertically elongated (Sx = 0.35, Sy = 2.5 deg) and other horizontally elongated (Sx = 2.5, Sy = 0.35 deg) moving rightward or leftward at a speed of 2 deg/s. We found that at high contrast (92%) duration thresholds were lower for vertically than horizontally elongated windows. However, at low contrast (2.8%), we found that duration thresholds were lower for horizontally than vertically elongated windows. These asymmetric results mirror the spatial non-homogeneity of the antagonistic surround found in MT neurons and suggest that the underlying center-surround antagonism is stronger along the direction of motion.
Can we track holes?	The evidence is mixed as to whether the visual system treats objects and holes differently. We used a multiple object tracking task to test the hypothesis that figural objects are easier to track than holes. Observers tracked four of eight items (holes or objects). We used an adaptive algorithm to estimate the speed allowing 75% tracking accuracy. In Experiments 1-5, the distinction between holes and figures was accomplished by pictorial cues, while red-cyan anaglyphs were used to provide the illusion of depth in Experiment 6. We variously used Gaussian pixel noise, photographic scenes, or synthetic textures as backgrounds. Tracking was more difficult when a complex background was visible, as opposed to a blank background. Tracking was easier when disks carried fixed, unique markings. When these factors were controlled for, tracking holes was no more difficult than tracking figures, suggesting that they are equivalent stimuli for tracking purposes.
The effects of aging on contour discrimination in clutter.	The present study examined the effect of aging on the detection and discrimination of contours embedded in a dense field of distractors. The minimum stimulus duration required to correctly discriminate (Experiment 1) and detect (Experiment 2) three types of "C" shaped contours was measured. Overall, older subjects required longer stimulus durations than younger subjects in all conditions. Comparing performance for contours comprising elements oriented tangentially to the contour path (aligned) and those oriented orthogonally to the contour (radial) revealed that the effect of local orientation on contour discrimination is slightly greater in older than younger subjects. Control experiments showed that these age differences were not due to differences in retinal illuminance, or the detectability or discriminability of the elements comprising the contours. These findings suggest that ability to extract global contours embedded in clutter declines in older age.
Relative contributions of the two eyes to perceived egocentric visual direction in normal binocular vision.	Perceived egocentric direction (EVD) is based on the sensed position of the eyes in the orbit and the oculocentric visual direction (eye-centered, OVD). Previous reports indicate that in some subjects eye-position information from the two eyes contributes unequally to the perceived EVD. Findings from other studies indicate that the retinal information from the two eyes may not always contribute equally to perceived OVD. The goal of this study was to assess whether these two sources of information covary similarly within the same individuals. Open-loop pointing responses to an isolated target presented randomly at several horizontal locations were collected from 13 subjects during different magnitudes of asymmetric vergence to estimate the contribution of the position information from each eye to perceived EVD. For the same subjects, the direction at which a horizontally or vertically disparate target with different interocular contrast or luminance ratios appeared aligned with a non-disparate target estimated the relative contribution of each eye's retinal information. The results show that the eye-position and retinal information vary similarly in most subjects, which is consistent with a modified version of Hering's law of visual direction.
Assessing the sensory function of the ocular surface: implications of use of a non-contact air jet aesthesiometer versus the Cochet-Bonnet aesthesiometer.	Assessment of corneal sensory function is commonly carried out using the Cochet-Bonnet aesthesiometer. The limitations of this instrument have lead to development of newer instruments, such as the CRCERT-Belmonte aesthesiometer, which utilise a jet of air as their stimulus. Recent work, however, has demonstrated contradictory effects on ocular surface sensitivity when measured with different types of aesthesiometer. The purpose of the present study was to compare clinical measurements of corneal sensitivity obtained with the CRCERT-Belmonte and the Cochet-Bonnet aesthesiometers and to examine their stimulus characteristics in terms of force exerted. No association was found between central corneal sensitivity measured with the two aesthesiometers in a group of normal subjects. Sensitivity was measured to be lower with the Cochet-Bonnet aesthesiometer than with the CRCERT-Belmonte. Over half of the subjects could not be assessed with the standard Cochet-Bonnet filament and 11% could not be assessed with either filament, as their corneal sensitivity was outside of the range of the instrument. In contrast, all subjects were within the stimulus range of the CRCERT-Belmonte aesthesiometer. Corneal sensitivity measurements made with the non-contact CRCERT-Belmonte aesthesiometer and the Cochet-Bonnet aesthesiometer are not comparable. Due to dissimilarities in the composition of their stimuli, and thus mode of stimulation, it is possible that the two instruments measure different aspects of the neural response. The underestimation of corneal sensitivity by the Cochet-Bonnet aesthesiometer and its inability to measure sensitivity of some subjects at all are important considerations in the assessment of sensitivity loss. Subtle changes are unlikely to be detected with this instrument, particularly at higher sensitivity levels. The Cochet-Bonnet should therefore be used with caution and the 0.08 mm diameter used as the filament of choice. Adoption of a non-contact aesthesiometer as standard for ocular sensitivity measurement should be considered. The non-contact instrument allows superior stimulus reproducibility and better control over stimulus characteristics, in addition to the ability for exploration of the response of all three types of neuro-receptors on the ocular surface.
Sensibility changes of the infraorbital nerve after primary surgery on patients with unilateral cleft lip according to J.Delaire]	The aim was to determine the overall sensibility changes in the area of the infraorbital nerve on patients with unilateral clefts lips and unilateral clefts lips and palate who had undergone primary surgical correction according to the principles of Delaire.
Neuroselective measure of the current perception threshold of A-delta and C-fiber afferents in the lower urinary tract.	Sensory dysfunction could be involved in various pathogeneses in the lower urinary tract including neurogenic bladder, overactive bladder, painful bladder syndrome and neuropathy as a result of endocrine disorders. The ability to diagnose sensory function more objectively is of increasing interest to clinicians. Afferent innervations of the lower urinary tract involve myelinated (A-delta) and unmyelinated (C) fibers. The Neurometer (Neurotron, Baltimore, MD, USA) is the only reported commercially available device to evaluate afferent function by selectively depolarizing different subpopulations of afferent nerves, with 250 Hz activating A-delta fibers and 5 Hz activating C-fibers, to determine their current perception threshold (CPT) as a quantitative measure. Recently, increased evidence has suggested that measurement of CPT values of A-delta and C-fibers in the lower urinary tracts is feasible and shows significant correlation with clinical symptoms and conventional urodynamic variables, as well as the efficacy of various treatments. However, there are still controversial issues in the wider use of this technology in diagnosis and assessment of the therapeutic effectiveness of sensory dysfunction in the lower urinary tracts. In order to resolve the remaining challenges in the CPT test of the lower urinary tract, recent efforts include development of a new balloon-type electro-catheter with dual electrodes as an alternative sensory test for the bladder or urethra, which allows simultaneous performance of conventional urodynamic tests and urine collection, and future standardized techniques available for comparison with validated control values.
Corneal sensitivity in diabetic patients subjected to retinal laser photocoagulation.	To determine the changes in corneal sensitivity to different stimulus modalities in diabetes mellitus (DM)1 and DM2 patients with retinopathy, and to explore whether argon laser photocoagulation exacerbates sensitivity loss in diabetic patients.
Thermal and vibratory thresholds after liposuction in patients with Dercum's disease.	Dercum's disease is characterised by pronounced pain in the adipose tissue and a number of associated symptoms and is, in most patients, accompanied by obesity. Postoperative sensory change after liposuction is a well-known side effect, and probably caused by mechanical trauma to the nerves. The aim of this investigation was to find out whether the thermal and sensory sensation changed after liposuction in patients with Dercum's disease. The thermal and vibratory thresholds were examined preoperatively, and three and 12 months after, liposuction in 39 affected patients. There were only small differences in thermal and vibratory thresholds three and 12 months after liposuction compared with preoperatively, and none of these was statistically significant.
A Bayesian model of binocular perception of 3D mirror symmetrical polyhedra.	In our previous studies, we showed that monocular perception of 3D shapes is based on a priori constraints, such as 3D symmetry and 3D compactness. The present study addresses the nature of perceptual mechanisms underlying binocular perception of 3D shapes. First, we demonstrate that binocular performance is systematically better than monocular performance, and it is close to perfect in the case of three out of four subjects. Veridical shape perception cannot be explained by conventional binocular models, in which shape was derived from depth intervals. In our new model, we use ordinal depth of points in a 3D shape provided by stereoacuity and combine it with monocular shape constraints by means of Bayesian inference. The stereoacuity threshold used by the model was estimated for each subject. This model can account for binocular shape performance of all four subjects. It can also explain the fact that when viewing distance increases, the binocular percept gradually reduces to the monocular one, which implies that monocular percept of a 3D shape is a special case of the binocular percept.
Foveal spatial summation in human cone mechanism.	We measured at the fovea the chromatic contrast threshold for stimuli modulated along different chromatic directions in the isoluminant plane of MBDKL colour space, considering the two cardinal axes (L/M) and S/(L + M) and other intermediate non-cardinal directions. This psychophysical determination was conducted as a function of stimulus size. The test stimulus was a foveal isoluminant Gaussian patch with a raised cosinusoidal temporal profile superimposed on a neutral background. The task was performed binocularly. The increment threshold was measured for three observers by a Bayesian adaptive psychometric method (QUEST). The Ricco area of complete spatial summation was estimated from the threshold-versus-area curves. The perceptive fields are smaller for the L/M-cone opponent direction than the S/(L + M)-cone opponent. The perceptive field sizes for the stimuli in non-cardinal chromatic directions and stimuli modulated at the (L/M)-cone opponent direction present similar values. Measurements were made at two luminance levels, 5 and 40 cd m(-2), but the differences found were small. The perceptive field sizes found could be associated with LGN area.
Exploring a brightness-drag illusion.	A sudden luminance increment on a moving stimulus was perceived significantly along the trajectory, in the direction of motion, from its displayed position. A nonlinear relationship with stimulus speed, for a Frhlich-like illusion, but not for the luminance-increment illusion, challenges certain models of spatial mislocalisation and argues for different processes underlying the two illusions.
An equivalent noise investigation of saccadic suppression.	Visual stimuli presented just before or during an eye movement are more difficult to detect than those same visual stimuli presented during fixation. This laboratory phenomenon--behavioral saccadic suppression--is thought to underlie the everyday experience of not perceiving the motion created by our own eye movements-saccadic omission. At the neural level, many cortical and subcortical areas respond differently to perisaccadic visual stimuli than to stimuli presented during fixation. Those neural response changes, however, are complex and the link to the behavioral phenomena of reduced detectability remains tentative. We used a well established model of human visual detection performance to provide a quantitative description of behavioral saccadic suppression and thereby allow a more focused search for its neural mechanisms. We used an equivalent noise method to distinguish between three mechanisms that could underlie saccadic suppression. The first hypothesized mechanism reduces the gain of the visual system, the second increases internal noise levels in a stimulus-dependent manner, and the third increases stimulus uncertainty. All three mechanisms predict that perisaccadic stimuli should be more difficult to detect, but each mechanism predicts a unique pattern of detectability as a function of the amount of external noise. Our experimental finding was that saccades increased detection thresholds at low external noise, but had little influence on thresholds at high levels of external noise. A formal analysis of these data in the equivalent noise analysis framework showed that the most parsimonious mechanism underlying saccadic suppression is a stimulus-independent reduction in response gain.
Pathways and polarities of synaptic interactions in the inner retina of the mudpuppy: II. Insight revealed by an analysis of latency and threshold.	Intracellular recording experiments in the mudpuppy (Necturus maculosus) have demonstrated that depolarizing bipolars show a one-half to one log unit higher threshold to light stimuli and a longer latency when compared to hyperpolarizing bipolars. This threshold difference cannot be ascribed to differences in rod and cone connections. Experimentally it was possible to use these differences to evaluate postbipolar cell connections; such experiments support the idea that some neurons are connected to one or the other bipolar cell type, while on-off cells receive input from both.
Pharyngeal airway protective reflexes are triggered before the maximum volume of fluid that the hypopharynx can safely hold is exceeded.	Aerodigestive reflexes triggered by pharyngeal stimulation can protect the airways by clearing fluid from the pharynx. The objective of this study was to determine the relationship between the maximum capacity of fluid that can safely dwell in the hypopharynx [hypopharyngeal safe volume (HPSV)] before spilling into the larynx and the threshold volumes required to trigger pharyngoglottal closure reflex (PGCR), pharyngo-upper esophageal sphincter contractile reflex (PUCR), and reflexive pharyngeal swallow (RPS). Twenty-five healthy volunteers (mean age 24 yr, 8 males) were studied in the semi-inclined supine position. PGCR, PUCR, and RPS were elicited using techniques of concurrent upper esophageal sphincter manometry and pharyngo-laryngoscopy. The hypopharynx was then anesthetized to abolish RPS. HPSV was determined by infusing water in the pharynx, and perfusion was stopped when the infusate reached the superior margin of the interarytenoid fold. The threshold volumes for triggering PGCR, PUCR, and RPS by slow and rapid injections before pharyngeal anesthesia were 0.18  0.02 and 0.09  0.02 ml; 0.20  0.020 and 0.13  0.04 ml; and 0.61  0.04 and 0.4  0.06 ml, respectively. All of the above volumes were significantly smaller than the HPSV (0.70  0.06 ml, P < 0.01) except for the threshold volume to elicit RPS during slow perfusion, which was not significantly different (P = 0.23). We conclude that pharyngeal aerodigestive reflexes are triggered by both slow and rapid pharyngeal perfusion of water at significantly smaller volumes than the maximum capacity of the hypopharynx to safely hold contents without spilling into the airway. These reflexes thereby aid in prevention of aspiration.
Normal sensory and absent cognitive electrophysiological responses in functional visual loss following chemical eye burn.	To present a unique case of a 34-year-old patient with unilateral functional visual loss after chemical burn with normal visual evoked potentials (VEPs) and absent cognitive response (P300 wave).
Global shape processing involves a hierarchy of integration stages.	Radial Frequency (RF) patterns can be used to study the processing of familiar shapes, e.g. triangles and squares. Opinion is divided over whether the mechanisms that detect these shapes integrate local orientation and position information directly, or whether local orientations and positions are first combined to represent extended features, such as curves, and that it is local curvatures that the shape mechanism integrates. The latter view incorporates an intermediate processing stage, the former does not. To differentiate between these hypotheses we studied the processing of micro-patch sampled RF patterns as a function of the luminance polarity of successive elements on the contour path. Our first study measures shape after effects involving suprathreshold amplitude RF shapes and shows that alternating the luminance polarity of successive micro-patch elements disrupts adaptation of the global shape. Our second study shows that polarity alternations also disrupt sensitivity to threshold-amplitude RF patterns. These results suggest that neighbouring points of the contour shape are integrated into extended features by a polarity selective mechanism, prior to global shape processing, consistent with the view that for both threshold amplitude and suprathreshold amplitude patterns, global processing of RF shapes involves an intermediate stage of processing.
Olfactory detection thresholds and adaptation in adults with autism spectrum condition.	Sensory issues have been widely reported in Autism Spectrum Conditions (ASC). Since olfaction is one of the least investigated senses in ASC, the current studies explore olfactory detection thresholds and adaptation to olfactory stimuli in adults with ASC. 80 participants took part, 38 (18 females, 20 males) with ASC and 42 control participants (20 males, 22 females). A subgroup of participants (N = 19 in each group) also conducted an adaptation task. Standardized "Sniffin' Sticks" were used to measure olfactory detection levels and adaptation. Adults with and without ASC showed similar olfactory detection thresholds, and similar adaptation to an olfactory stimulus. Since diminished adaptation in ASC has been previously suggested, future research needs to examine adaptation in other modalities as well.
Accurate and rapid estimation of phosphene thresholds (REPT).	To calibrate the intensity of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) at the occipital pole, the phosphene threshold is used as a measure of cortical excitability. The phosphene threshold (PT) refers to the intensity of magnetic stimulation that induces illusory flashes of light (phosphenes) on a proportion of trials. The existing PT estimation procedures lack the accuracy and mathematical rigour of modern threshold estimation methods. We present an improved and automatic procedure for estimating the PT which is based on the well-established  Bayesian adaptive staircase approach. To validate the new procedure, we compared it with another commonly used procedure for estimating the PT. We found that our procedure is more accurate, reliable, and rapid when compared with an existing PT measurement procedure. The new procedure is implemented in Matlab and works automatically with the Magstim Rapid(2) stimulator using a convenient graphical user interface. The Matlab program is freely available for download.
Thresholds for the detection of changing visual features.	Change blindness refers to the difficulty observers have in detecting otherwise obvious changes to visual stimuli, when these changes are masked in some way. Typically, change blindness is studied by using complex visual scenes and complex changes to these scenes. In the current study, we used a more controlled visual environment, presenting observers with a series of oriented, sinusoidal patterns (Gabors), one of which underwent a change during a blanking of the screen. Changes were made to different features (size, colour, spatial frequency, and speed) with the target-distractor discriminability varying. The detectability of these changes was quantified by calculating psychometric functions and thresholds for each individual observer. Thresholds for the detection of changing features were higher than those for non-changing features, but thresholds for both tasks show consistency across observers. Psychometric-function slopes show consistency across observers and change type only for non-changing targets. For changing targets, psychometric-function slopes show no obvious pattern across observers or change types. We suggest this reflects vSTM treating different features as abstract, interchangeable tokens, as alternative explanations (such as additional noise in vSTM) can be ruled out.
Thermal detection thresholds in 5-year-old preterm born children; IQ does matter.	Experiencing pain at newborn age may have consequences on one's somatosensory perception later in life. Children's perception for cold and warm stimuli may be determined with the Thermal Sensory Analyzer (TSA) device by two different methods.
Effects of retinal eccentricity and acuity on global-motion processing.	The present study assessed direction discrimination with moving random-dot cinematograms at retinal eccentricities of 0, 8, 22, and 40 deg. In addition, Landolt-C acuity was assessed at these eccentricities to determine whether changes in motion discrimination performance covaried with acuity in the retinal periphery. The results of the experiment indicated that discrimination thresholds increased with retinal eccentricity and directional variance (noise), independent of acuity. Psychophysical modeling indicated that the results for eccentricity and noise could be explained by an increase in channel bandwidth and an increase in internal multiplicative noise.
Non-linear global pooling in the discrimination of circular and non-circular shapes.	The ability to discriminate minute deviations from circularity is dependent upon global summation mechanisms integrating information along entire contours. The aim of this study was to determine how the strength of global summation depends on various stimulus features. To determine if the strength of global summation differs between shapes, contour discrimination for various contour shapes, generated by applying a sinusoidal modulation to the radius of a circle (radial frequency - RF - patterns), was measured. Shapes differed in frequency (number of lobes RF3, RF5 and RF20) and amplitude ('sharpness' of the lobes ranged between 0 and 20 thresholds for detecting deviation from a circle). Low amplitudes test discrimination against a circle while high amplitudes measure sensitivity for highly non-circular shapes (e.g. five-pointed star-shapes). The ability to integrate information along contours was assessed by comparing the effect of applying radial deformations to the entire contour or to only fractions (various number of cycles). Results show that discrimination thresholds remain in the hyperacuity range for low amplitudes, but increase for higher amplitudes. Concerning signal integration, discrimination, expressed as a function of the amount of contour deformed, exhibits a shallow and a steep regime. Discrimination improves only slowly as more contour cycles are deformed until the point when the entire pattern is modulated, when sensitivity increases substantially. The initial shallow regime is well captured by probability summation. The increase in sensitivity when the entire pattern is modulated compared to a single cycle provides evidence for global pooling. The pattern of integration and the existence of global pooling is dependent on shape frequency. The two-part behavior is independent of shape amplitude but is only seen for low RFs (3 and 5). Data for RF20 follow the prediction of probability summation. We next investigated various stimulus characteristics and their effect on integration strength. Global pooling exceeding probability summation is evident for different pattern sizes, presentation times and for high as well as low absolute contrasts. Only if the contrasts of different fractions of a contour shape are individually scaled to match their respective visibilities is integration strength below the level of probability summation. This explains the lack of apparent global pooling in previous studies employing mixed contrasts. The marked increase in performance for discriminating completely modulated RF patterns argues in favor of highly specialized, global shape mechanisms that are seen over a wide range of stimulus configurations. The results indicate global, non-linear mechanisms, which respond most strongly when stimulated by the entire pattern and comparatively weakly when only stimulated by parts of it.
Two-dimensional pattern motion analysis uses local features.	Extensive research suggests that the visual system computes the direction of motion of a two-dimensional pattern from the motion of its oriented spatial frequency components. However, there is some evidence to suggest that the local features in a pattern are also important. In order to demonstrate that the local features contribute to motion perception we have created complex stimuli in which the oriented spatial frequency components have the same direction of motion but the local features move in different directions. The stimuli are multi-component plaid patterns with alternating high and low contrast rows. An analysis based on the oriented spatial frequency components predicts a uniform motion percept for the whole pattern. However, an analysis based on the local features in the pattern predicts that the high-contrast and low-contrast rows would be perceived to move in opposite directions. In a direction discrimination task, observers reported opposite directions of motion for small patches of the pattern that were centred on high and low contrast rows. This supports the hypothesis that the visual system uses local features when computing pattern motion. We show that a simple energy model with localised motion sensors that are broadly tuned for orientation could explain our results.
Sensitivity to nonaccidental properties across various shape dimensions.	Nonaccidental properties (NAPs) are image properties that are invariant over orientation in depth and are distinguished from metric properties (MPs) that can change continuously with variations over depth orientation. To a large extent NAPs allow facile recognition of objects at novel viewpoints. Two match-to-sample experiments with 2D or 3D appearing geons assessed sensitivity to NAP vs. MP differences. A matching geon was always identical to the sample and the distractor differed from the matching geon in either a NAP or an MP on a single generalized cone dimension. For example, if the sample was a cylinder with a slightly curved axis, the NAP distractor would have a straight axis and the MP distractor would have an axis of greater curvature than the sample. Critically, the NAP and MP differences were scaled so that the MP differences were slightly greater according to pixel energy and Gabor wavelet measures of dissimilarity. Exp. 1 used a staircase procedure to determine the threshold presentation time required to achieve 75% accuracy. Exp. 2 used a constant, brief display presentation time with reaction times and error rates as dependent measures. Both experiments revealed markedly greater sensitivity to NAP over MP differences, and this was generally true for the individual dimensions. The NAP advantage was not reflected in the similarity computations of the C2 stage of HMAX, a widely cited model of later stage cortical ventral stream processing.
Olfactory dysfunction in seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis.	The limitation in olfactory function in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis (AR) can be ascribed to an increase in eosinophilic and mast cell activity in the olfactory cleft. Therefore, the decrease in olfactory functions seems to be predominantly caused by the inflammation of the epithelium and not by the obstruction of the nose caused by the inflammation.
Characterization by Belmonte's gas esthesiometer of mechanical, chemical, and thermal corneal sensitivity thresholds in a normal population.	We used a prototype gas esthesiometer to measure corneal threshold sensitivity values for mechanical, chemical, and thermal stimuli. We also evaluated the reproducibility of the esthesiometer measurements, the influence of previous corneal symptoms, and the safety of this technique.
The temporal course of recovery from brief (sub-second) adaptations to spatial contrast.	Visual adaptation is a critical and ubiquitous mechanism that occurs for any stimulus feature and involves a continuous adjustment of the neuronal contrast gain. These adjustments prevent our visual system from dropping in sensitivity for the prevailing ranges of stimulus features that are processed at a given time. In addition to the classical adaptation, which arises over several seconds to minutes, a number of psychophysical, electrophysiological and interference studies have documented a much faster form of adaptation occurring with motion stimuli. This faster adaptation operates on a sub-second scale. In the present study, we investigated whether a fast form of adaptation also exists for spatial contrast and whether its characteristics (e.g., dependence on the duration of adaptation, time course of recovery) are similar to the classical, slower contrast adaptation. We found that a fast form of adaptation does exist and is maximal at intervals of 16-50 ms after the offset of the adapting stimulus. Similar to what previous studies have found regarding the classical contrast adaptation, the initial threshold elevation of this study did not depend on the duration of the adapting stimulus, but only on its contrast. Our results showed that the function which best describes the decay of brief adaptations to high-contrast stimuli was a double exponential decay function, whereas the best function for describing adaptation to low-contrast stimuli was a single exponential decay function with a very fast recovery rate. Thus, adapting contrast influences both the threshold elevation, which rises with increasing adapting contrast, and the time course of recovery from adaptation. Overall, our data suggest the presence of a mechanism that is similar to the classical contrast adaptation involved in longer adaptations, but it operates over much shorter timescales.
The effect of dot speed and density on the development of global motion perception.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of dot speed and dot density on the development of global motion perception by comparing the performance of adults and children (5-6years old) on a direction-discrimination task. Motion coherence thresholds were measured at two dot speeds (1 and 4deg/s) and three dot densities (1, 15, 30dots/deg(2)). Adult coherence thresholds were constant at approximately 9%, regardless of speed or density. Child coherence thresholds were significantly higher across conditions, and were most immature at the slow speed and at the sparse density. Thus, the development of global motion perception depends heavily on stimulus parameters. This finding can account for some of the discrepancy in the current developmental literature. Our results, however, caution against making general claims about motion deficits in clinical populations based on only a single measurement at a specific combination of speed and density.
Foveal color perception: minimal thresholds at a boundary between perceptual categories.	Human color vision depends on the relative rates at which photons are absorbed by the three classes of retinal cone cell. The ratios of these cone absorptions can be represented in a continuous two-dimensional space, but human perception imposes discrete hue categories on this space. We ask whether discrimination is enhanced at the boundary between color categories, as it is at the boundary between speech sounds. Measuring foveal color discrimination under neutral conditions of adaptation, we find a region of enhanced discrimination in color space that corresponds approximately to the subjective category boundary between reddish and greenish hues. We suggest that these chromaticities are ones at which an opponent neural channel is in equilibrium. This channel would be 'non-cardinal', in that its signals would not correspond to either axis of the MacLeod-Boynton chromaticity diagram.
Activation of ganglion cells in wild-type and P23H rat retinas with a small subretinal electrode.	Electronic retinal prostheses are being developed for people who become blind due to loss of photoreceptors from the disease retinitis pigmentosa. Previously, we reported on the responses of RGCs in the P23H rat (a model of retinitis pigmentosa) and the Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat to stimulation with a 400-m diameter electrode (Jensen and Rizzo, 2011). With recent clinical trials now utilizing smaller (50-200 m) electrodes, I sought to investigate the electrically evoked responses of RGCs in P23H and SD rat retinas with a smaller (125-m diameter) electrode. Here, I report on the electrically evoked spike activity from RGCs that arose from stimulation of the retinal neural network. With biphasic current pulses of 1 ms per phase, the thresholds for activation of SD rat RGCs ranged from 0.52 to 2.8 A; thresholds of P23H rat RGCs ranged from 1.2 to 7.8 A. Median thresholds of RGCs were 1.4 A in SD rats and 2.5 A in P23H rats. These thresholds measurements were obtained with the recording electrode placed over the stimulating electrode. I also examined how thresholds of RGCs change as a function of distance (100-500 m) from the center of the stimulating electrode. The median threshold currents of RGCs were much higher in P23H rats for all distances. What was striking was that the thresholds for activation of RGCs in P23H rat retinas rose much more rapidly. When the recording electrode was only 100-200 m from the center of the stimulating electrode, the median threshold current of P23H rat RGCs rose by 460%. In contrast, the median threshold current of SD rat RGCs increased only 29%. I also investigated the contribution of photoreceptors to the electrically evoked responses of ON-center RGCs in SD rat retinas by examining the change in RGC thresholds when photoreceptor input to ON bipolar cells was blocked with the mGluR6 antagonist CPPG. At 500-600 m, CPPG suppressed the light-evoked responses of the RGCs and at the same time increased the amount of current needed to generate an electrically evoked response. Similar to what was observed with SD rat RGCs, CPPG suppressed the light-evoked responses of ON-center P23H rat RGCs. However, the stimulation thresholds were not significantly altered. In conclusion, the data show that the threshold currents for indirect stimulation of both SD and P23H rat RGCs with a 125-m diameter electrode are much lower than what we found previously with a 400-m diameter electrode. To achieve high resolution vision with a multielectrode array, the spread of activation of RGCs needs to be limited. Our findings indicate that the spread of activation of RGCs is more confined in the degenerate retina. Lastly, my findings indicate that photoreceptors contribute to the lower stimulation thresholds of RGCs in normal, healthy retinas.
Reduction in sensitivity to radial optic-flow congruent with ego-motion.	Visual motion, such as radial optic flow, is an important cue for perceiving direction during ego-motion. Several previous studies have reported that the perceived speed of a radial optic flow is underestimated when the represented ego-motion direction between radial optic flow and non-visual (such as vestibular or/and proprioceptive) information is congruent. In the present study, we examined whether sensitivity to different types of optic flow (radial vs. laminar) interacts with vestibular input in different ways by using another method: instead of estimating the perceived speed of the visual motion pattern, we measured motion-coherence thresholds. The results indicated that when the heading direction was represented by a radial optic-flow pattern, the radial optic-flow sensitivity was significantly lower under the condition where the visual and vestibular sensory input were congruent with the ego-motion direction than under the condition where the visuo-vestibular input and ego-motion were incongruent. These results indicated that radial optic-flow sensitivity was decreased by the congruent vestibular input during the ego-motion event. On the other hand, when the direction of ego-motion was represented by a laminar optic flow, the results were different from those observed with radial optic flows. These data suggest that vestibular input has some effect on optic-flow sensitivity but that the magnitude of the effect of vestibular input may differ between distinct flow patterns such as radial and laminar optic flows.
Suprathreshold asymmetries in human motion perception.	Detection of asymmetries has been a mainstay of using vestibular reflexes to assess semicircular canal function. However, there has been relatively little work on how vestibular stimuli are perceived. Suprathreshold vestibular perception was measured in 13 normal healthy controls by having them compare the relative sizes of two yaw (vertical-axis rotation) or sway (right-left translation) stimuli. Both stimuli were 1.5 s in duration with a staircase used to adjust the relative size of the stimuli to find a pair of stimuli perceived as equal. Motion stimuli were delivered in darkness using a hexapod motion platform, and visual stimuli simulating motion were presented on a screen in the absence of platform motion. Both same direction (SD) and opposite direction (OD) stimuli were delivered in separate runs. After a two-interval stimulus, subjects reported which movement they perceived as larger. Cumulative distribution functions were fit to the responses so that the relative magnitudes of the two stimuli perceived as equal could be determined. For OD trial blocks, a directional asymmetry index was calculated to compare the relative size of perceived rightward and leftward motion. For all trial blocks, a temporal asymmetry index (TAI) was used to compare the relative size of the first and second intervals. Motion OD stimuli were perceived as equal in all subjects in yaw and all but one in sway. For visual OD stimuli, two subjects had slightly asymmetric responses for both sway and yaw. The TAI demonstrated asymmetry in 54% in yaw, in which the second interval was perceived to be larger in all but one subject who had an asymmetry. For sway, only two subjects had a significant asymmetry. Visual stimuli produced a similar rate of asymmetry. The direction and magnitude of these asymmetries were not significantly correlated with those seen for motion stimuli. Asymmetries were found in a fraction with the TAI in SD stimuli for motion in yaw (42%) and sway (33%), as well as for vision in yaw (60%) and sway (43%). The precision at discriminating SD motion stimuli decreased significantly with age, but there was no difference in OD motion or visual stimuli.
Comparison of subjective olfaction ratings in patients with and without olfactory disorders.	Olfactory dysfunction is common. The reliability of self-assessment tools for smell testing is still controversial. This study aimed to provide new data about the accuracy of olfactory self-assessment compared with a standardised smell test.
Intact 2D-form recognition despite impaired tactile spatial acuity in complex regional pain syndrome type I.	Tactile acuity measured by 2-point discrimination performance is impaired in patients with complex regional pain syndrome type I (CRPS-I). This is mirrored by pain-associated shrinkage of the cortical representation of the affected limb. We investigated whether, also, more complex tactile performance assessed by a dynamic 2D-form perception task is disturbed in CRPS-I patients. Therefore, we developed a Braille-like recognition task (BT) for geometrical dot pattern identification by dynamic touch. We studied 47 healthy volunteers (Study I) and compared them to 16 CRPS-I patients (Study II). Besides recognition time and error quote of the BT, we assessed static 2-point discrimination thresholds (TPDT). In healthy subjects, the performance in the BT correlated significantly with age and TPDT. In CRPS patients, TPDT was significantly increased on the affected side compared to sex- and age-matched controls from study I (2.98  0.84 mm vs 2.05  0.82 mm, P<0.01). The performance in the BT was not impaired in CRPS-I patients (compared to sex- and age-matched controls from study I) and was not correlated to the TPDT. The intact 2D-form recognition ability in CRPS-I patients might be explained by intact dynamic tactile and proprioceptive functions, which appear to be uncompromised by the impaired static tactile perception, provided that the spacing of the dot pattern is above the individual tactile acuity. These intact 2D-form perception capacities may also be related to higher sensory integration functions like the visual system and intact semantic understanding, which may be spared by the cortical reorganization phenomena in CRPS-I.
Detection thresholds of macaque otolith afferents.	The vestibular system is our sixth sense and is important for spatial perception functions, yet the sensory detection and discrimination properties of vestibular neurons remain relatively unexplored. Here we have used signal detection theory to measure detection thresholds of otolith afferents using 1 Hz linear accelerations delivered along three cardinal axes. Direction detection thresholds were measured by comparing mean firing rates centered on response peak and trough (full-cycle thresholds) or by comparing peak/trough firing rates with spontaneous activity (half-cycle thresholds). Thresholds were similar for utricular and saccular afferents, as well as for lateral, fore/aft, and vertical motion directions. When computed along the preferred direction, full-cycle direction detection thresholds were 7.54 and 3.01 cm/s(2) for regular and irregular firing otolith afferents, respectively. Half-cycle thresholds were approximately double, with excitatory thresholds being half as large as inhibitory thresholds. The variability in threshold among afferents was directly related to neuronal gain and did not depend on spike count variance. The exact threshold values depended on both the time window used for spike count analysis and the filtering method used to calculate mean firing rate, although differences between regular and irregular afferent thresholds were independent of analysis parameters. The fact that minimum thresholds measured in macaque otolith afferents are of the same order of magnitude as human behavioral thresholds suggests that the vestibular periphery might determine the limit on our ability to detect or discriminate small differences in head movement, with little noise added during downstream processing.
The psychometric function: the lapse rate revisited.	In their influential paper, Wichmann and Hill (2001) have shown that the threshold and slope estimates of a psychometric function may be severely biased when it is assumed that the lapse rate equals zero but lapses do, in fact, occur. Based on a large number of simulated experiments, Wichmann and Hill claim that threshold and slope estimates are essentially unbiased when one allows the lapse rate to vary within a rectangular prior during the fitting procedure. Here, I replicate Wichmann and Hill's finding that significant bias in parameter estimates results when one assumes that the lapse rate equals zero but lapses do occur, but fail to replicate their finding that freeing the lapse rate eliminates this bias. Instead, I show that significant and systematic bias remains in both threshold and slope estimates even when one frees the lapse rate according to Wichmann and Hill's suggestion. I explain the mechanisms behind the bias and propose an alternative strategy to incorporate the lapse rate into psychometric function models, which does result in essentially unbiased parameter estimates.
Substitutional reality system: a novel experimental platform for experiencing alternative reality.	We have developed a novel experimental platform, referred to as a substitutional reality (SR) system, for studying the conviction of the perception of live reality and related metacognitive functions. The SR system was designed to manipulate people's reality by allowing them to experience live scenes (in which they were physically present) and recorded scenes (which were recorded and edited in advance) in an alternating manner without noticing a reality gap. All of the nave participants (n = 21) successfully believed that they had experienced live scenes when recorded scenes had been presented. Additional psychophysical experiments suggest the depth of visual objects does not affect the perceptual discriminability between scenes, and the scene switch during head movement enhance substitutional performance. The SR system, with its reality manipulation, is a novel and affordable method for studying metacognitive functions and psychiatric disorders.
Sensory feedback from a prosthetic hand based on air-mediated pressure from the hand to the forearm skin.	Lack of sensory feedback is a drawback in today's hand prostheses. We present here a non-invasive simple sensory feedback system, which provides the user of a prosthetic hand with sensory feedback on the arm stump. It is mediated by air in a closed loop system connecting silicone pads on the prosthetic hand with pads on the amputation stump. The silicone pads in a "tactile display" on the amputation stump expand when their corresponding sensor-bulb in the prosthesis is touched, evoking an experience of "real touch".
Evaluation of card-type odor identification test for Japanese patients with olfactory disturbance.	A card-type odor identification test, Open Essence (OE), was recently developed in order to examine olfactory function in the Japanese population. The purpose of this study was to validate the efficacy of this new test by comparison with established olfactory examinations.
The IS/OS junction layer in the natural history of type 2 idiopathic macular telangiectasia.	To document the progression of a break in the photoreceptor inner segment/outer segment (IS/OS) junction layer and its functional correlates over time in the natural history of type 2 idiopathic macular telangiectasia (type 2 MacTel).
Olfactory function in patients with and without temporal lobe resection.	The study aimed to assess olfactory function in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy before and after resection of temporal lobe structures and especially addressed the question whether there are any significant olfactory differences as a function of side of epileptic focus or resection.
The effect of video game training on the vision of adults with bilateral deprivation amblyopia.	Amblyopia is a condition involving reduced acuity caused by abnormal visual input during a critical period beginning shortly after birth. Amblyopia is typically considered to be irreversible during adulthood. Here we provide the first demonstration that video game training can improve at least some aspects of the vision of adults with bilateral deprivation amblyopia caused by a history of bilateral congenital cataracts. Specifically, after 40 h of training over one month with an action video game, most patients showed improvement in one or both eyes on a wide variety of tasks including acuity, spatial contrast sensitivity, and sensitivity to global motion. As well, there was evidence of improvement in at least some patients for temporal contrast sensitivity, single letter acuity, crowding, and feature spacing in faces, but not for useful field of view. The results indicate that, long after the end of the critical period for damage, there is enough residual plasticity in the adult visual system to effect improvements, even in cases of deep amblyopia caused by early bilateral deprivation.
Further evidence that local cues to shape in RF patterns are integrated globally.	Radial frequency (RF) patterns, paths deformed from circular by a sinusoidal modulation of radius, have proved valuable stimuli for investigation of visual shape processing. Their utility relies upon evidence that thresholds for detection of modulation decrease, as cycles of modulation are added, at a rate that cannot be accounted for by the improving probability of detection of any single cycle (probability summation). This has been interpreted as indicative of global processing. Recently Mullen, Beaudot, and Ivanov (2011), using low contrast RF patterns viewed in cosine phase through a Gaussian window, demonstrated the existence of a local cue to modulation that was more salient than the global shape cue present in sectors of RF patterns. The experiments reported here investigate why this cue has not previously obscured global integration of shape information in RF patterns. Using stimuli modulated in sine phase, Experiment 1 showed that the presence of a circular sector of path, used to complete a partially modulated RF pattern, does not raise thresholds, contrary to the suggestion of Mullen et al. (2011). Experiment 2 demonstrated integration for high and low contrast RF patterns viewed in sine phase through a Gaussian window and Experiment 3 showed the same for patterns in cosine phase if the use of a local phase specific curvature cue was precluded. Effective use of local curvature in the test comparison, then, requires knowledge of pattern orientation to define the sign of curvature. Experiment 4 demonstrated global processing of shape information for a range of radial frequencies and also showed that the local maximum gradient with respect to circular within an RF pattern covaries with threshold. This implies that it is this cue, or one that covaries linearly with it, that is integrated across cycles of modulation by the global processing mechanism.
Dynamic changes in heat transducing channel TRPV1 expression regulate mechanically insensitive, heat sensitive C-fiber recruitment after axotomy and regeneration.	Peripheral injury leads to a significant increase in the prevalence of mechanically insensitive, heat-sensitive C-fibers (CH) that contain the heat transducing TRPV1 (transient receptor potential vanilloid type I) channel in mice. We have recently shown that this recruitment of CH fibers is associated with increased expression of the receptor for GDNF (glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor) family neurotrophic factor artemin (GFR3), and that in vivo inhibition of GFR3 prevented the increase in TRPV1 expression normally observed following axotomy. Here we have directly tested the hypothesis that the recruitment of functional CH fibers following nerve regeneration requires enhanced TRPV1 levels. We used in vivo siRNA-mediated knockdown to inhibit the injury-induced expression of TRPV1 coupled with ex vivo recording to examine response characteristics and neurochemical phenotypes of different functionally defined cutaneous sensory neurons after regeneration. We confirmed that inhibition of TRPV1 did not affect the axotomy-induced decrease in polymodal C-fiber (CPM) heat threshold, but transiently prevented the recruitment of CH neurons. Moreover, a recovery of TRPV1 protein was observed following resolution of siRNA-mediated inhibition that was correlated with a concomitant rebound in CH neuron recruitment. Thus dynamic changes in TRPV1 expression, not absolute levels, may underlie the functional alterations observed in CH neurons and may contribute to the development of heat hyperalgesia after nerve injury.
Neurosensory alterations and function of the temporomandibular joint after high oblique sagittal split osteotomy: an alternative technique in orthognathic surgery.	The current most common technique for repositioning of the mandible, bilateral sagittal split osteotomy (BSSO), was first described by Obwegeser and Dal Pont in the early1960s, and has since been modified several times. However, there is always a risk of damaging the inferior alveolar nerve. We have studied 50 consecutive patients who had high oblique sagittal split osteotomy (HSSO) as an alternative to avoid damage to the nerve. The patients were evaluated for sensory alterations and function of the temporomandibular joint (TMJ). Healing of both wound and bone were complete and uneventful in all 50 patients. Mean (SD) sagittal movement of the mandible was 6.6 (2.9)mm and length of the osteotomy line was 11.0 (3.1)mm. No patient had either temporary or permanent alteration in sensitivity. Pinprick tests showed no significant changes between the preoperative and postoperative readings (p>0.16) or in the chronological results (p>0.23). No disorders of the TMJ developed. Mean (SD) mouth opening 6months postoperatively was 41.6 (8.6)mm. The lateral excursion increased postoperatively by 1.86mm to the left and by 0.76mm to the right. Protrusion increased by 0.66mm. HSSO is therefore a suitable alternative to BSSO as it avoids injury to the inferior alveolar nerve without compromising the TMJ. Ossification was uneventful though bony attachment was less than with the classic BSSO. 
Cumulative effect of 5 daily sessions of  burst stimulation on corticospinal excitability in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.	Excitotoxicity plays an important role in the pathogenesis of the preferential motor neuron death observed in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) by transcranial magnetic stimulation has an inhibitory effect on corticospinal excitability (CSE). We characterized the neurophysiological changes induced by cTBS in ALS.
Effects of water immersion on short- and long-latency afferent inhibition, short-interval intracortical inhibition, and intracortical facilitation.	The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of water immersion (WI) on short- and long-latency afferent inhibition (SAI and LAI), short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI), and intracortical facilitation (ICF).
Vitality of intact teeth anterior to the mental foramen after inferior alveolar nerve repositioning: nerve transpositioning versus nerve lateralization.	The aim of the present study was to compare two methods used in inferior alveolar nerve (IAN) repositioning to evaluate their effect on the vitality of intact teeth anterior to the mental foramen. Nerve lateralization (NL) is defined as the lateral reflection of the IAN without incisive nerve transection; nerve transposition (NT) involves sacrifice of the incisive nerve. Twenty-one patients were included in this study. Vitality tests for the teeth anterior to the mental foramen, including pulse oximetry and electric pulp testing, were evaluated at 1 week prior to surgery and at 1 week, 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after surgery. Lower lip and chin neurosensory changes were also recorded at the same time intervals by static light touch test with a cotton-tipped applicator and two-point discrimination test with sharp callipers. Vitality tests were negative after the operation in the NT group, while all had normal values at 1 week prior to the operation. In the NL group, only two patients (20%) had negative test results at 1 week after surgery. Lip and chin neurosensory changes in the total transpositions (28 operations) were seen in 7.1% at 1 year after the operation. It appears that NL is a more physiological procedure than NT. 
Differences in somatosensory and motor improvement during temporary functional deafferentation in stroke patients and healthy subjects.	Temporary functional deafferentation is of interest to become an additional tool in neurorehabilitative treatments. Temporary functional deafferentation is known to improve sensory and motor outcomes in chronic stroke patients and healthy subjects. The present study soughts to indicate differences in the efficiency of pharmacologically induced temporary functional deafferentation between chronic stroke patients and matched healthy subjects. 46 chronic stroke patients and 20 age- and gender-matched healthy subjects were deafferented on one forearm by an anesthetic cream. Somatosensory performance was assessed using von-Frey Hair testing and Grating orientation task; motor performance was assessed by means of a shape-sorter-drum task. Grating orientation task and shape-sorter-drum task were significantly improved during temporary functional deafferentation in stroke patients but not in healthy subjects. Von-Frey Hair testing revealed no improvement of absolute tactile thresholds during temporary functional deafferentation in both groups. Furthermore, the stroke patients showed deficits at baseline measurement in all assessments except the von-Frey Hair test. Temporary functional deafferentation of a forearm by an anesthetic cream results in improvements of motor performance and somatosensory discrimination in stroke patients but not in healthy subjects. Therefore, it is reasonable to test in a next step whether temporary functional deafferentation might become an additional tool in motor rehabilitation of post stroke patients. 
Sensorial differences according to sex and ages.	To investigate age and sex differences in orofacial sensory detection.
Reduction in direction discrimination with age and slow speed is due to both increased internal noise and reduced sampling efficiency.	Sensitivity to moving structure decreases with age and slow speeds may be selectively impaired. This loss could be caused by elevated internal noise in the responses of motion sensors or a reduction in the efficiency with which motion responses are integrated. We adapt an equivalent noise paradigm to analyze the perception of slow and fast speed motion as a function of normal aging.
Olfaction and environment: Tsimane' of Bolivian rainforest have lower threshold of odor detection than industrialized German people.	Olfactory sensitivity varies between individuals. However, data regarding cross-cultural and inter-group differences are scarce. We compared the thresholds of odor detection of the traditional society of Tsimane' (native Amazonians of the Bolivian rainforest; n = 151) and people living in Dresden (Germany; n = 286) using "Sniffin' Sticks" threshold subtest. Tsimane' detected n-butanol at significantly lower concentrations than the German subjects. The distribution of thresholds of the Tsimane' was very specific, with 25% of Tsimane' obtaining better results in the olfactory test than any member of the German group. These data suggest that differences in olfactory sensitivity seem to be especially salient between industrialized and non-industrialized populations inhabiting different environmental conditions. We hypothesize that the possible sources of such differences are: (i) the impact of pollution which impairs the olfactory abilities of people from industrialized countries; (ii) better training of olfaction because of the higher importance of smell in traditional populations; (iii) environmental pressures shaping olfactory abilities in these populations. 
Olfactory training is helpful in postinfectious olfactory loss: a randomized, controlled, multicenter study.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of olfactory training (OT) on olfactory function in patients with persistent postinfectious olfactory dysfunction (PIOD).
Temporal order perception of auditory stimuli is selectively modified by tonal and non-tonal language environments.	The close relationship between temporal perception and speech processing is well established. The present study focused on the specific question whether the speech environment could influence temporal order perception in subjects whose language backgrounds are distinctively different, i.e., Chinese (tonal language) vs. Polish (non-tonal language). Temporal order thresholds were measured for both monaurally presented clicks and binaurally presented tone pairs. Whereas the click experiment showed similar order thresholds for the two language groups, the experiment with tone pairs resulted in different observations: while Chinese demonstrated better performance in discriminating the temporal order of two "close frequency" tone pairs (600 Hz and 1200 Hz), Polish subjects showed a reversed pattern, i.e., better performance for "distant frequency" tone pairs (400 Hz and 3000 Hz). These results indicate on the one hand a common temporal mechanism for perceiving the order of two monaurally presented stimuli, and on the other hand neuronal plasticity for perceiving the order of frequency-related auditory stimuli. We conclude that the auditory brain is modified with respect to temporal processing by long-term exposure to a tonal or a non-tonal language. As a consequence of such an exposure different cognitive modes of operation (analytic vs. holistic) are selected: the analytic mode is adopted for "distant frequency" tone pairs in Chinese and for "close frequency" tone pairs in Polish subjects, whereas the holistic mode is selected for "close frequency" tone pairs in Chinese and for "distant frequency" tone pairs in Polish subjects, reflecting a double dissociation of function.
Retrospective analysis of five-year and longer clinical and electrophysiological results of the world's first endoscopic management for carpal tunnel syndrome.	We have analyzed postoperative long-term follow-up results of five years or more from idiopathic carpal tunnel syndrome patients that underwent our complete carpal canal release and decompression procedure that uses the Universal Subcutaneous Endoscope system. In this series, 203 hands were followed up both clinically and electrophysiologically. Final follow-up times were determined by the most recent electrophysiological measurements. Mean follow-up period was nine years. Tingling, pain (using a 3 gm needle) and touch (using a 2 gm von Frey hair) at all median nerve distribution areas recovered to normal in 92.9, 98.2, 95.2%, respectively. Abductor pollicis brevis muscle power improved from preoperative manual muscle testing of 0, 1, 2 to post-operative 4 or 5 in 82.6%. Mean detectable distal sensory latency improved from 4.3 (n = 130) to 3.1 msec (n = 200). Mean detectable distal motor latency improved from 6.2 (n = 189) to 4.1 msec (n = 200). Complication and recurrence rates were 0% and 0.5% respectively. 
Upper extremity limb loss: functional restoration from prosthesis and targeted reinnervation to transplantation.	For several decades, prosthetic use was the only option to restore function after upper extremity amputation. Recent years have seen advances in the field of prosthetics. Such advances include prosthetic design and function, activity-specific devices, improved aesthetics, and adjunctive surgical procedures to improve both form and function. Targeted reinnervation is one exciting advance that allows for more facile and more intuitive function with prosthetics following proximal amputation. Another remarkable advance that holds great promise in nearly all fields of medicine is the transplantation of composite tissue, such as hand and face transplantation. Hand transplantation holds promise as the ultimate restorative procedure that can provide form, function, and sensation. However, this procedure still comes with a substantial cost in terms of the rehabilitation and toxic immunosuppression and should be limited to carefully selected patients who have failed prosthetic reconstruction. Hand transplantation and prosthetic reconstruction should not be viewed as competing options. Rather, they are two treatment options with different risk/benefit profiles and different indications and, hence vastly different implications.
Late, not early, stages of Kanizsa shape perception are compromised in schizophrenia.	Schizophrenia is a devastating psychiatric disorder characterized by symptoms including delusions, hallucinations, and disorganized thought. Kanizsa shape perception is a basic visual process that builds illusory contour and shape representations from spatially segregated edges. Recent studies have shown that schizophrenia patients exhibit abnormal electrophysiological signatures during Kanizsa shape perception tasks, but it remains unclear how these abnormalities are manifested behaviorally and whether they arise from early or late levels in visual processing.
Assessment of sensory thresholds and nociceptive fiber growth after sciatic nerve injury reveals the differential contribution of collateral reinnervation and nerve regeneration to neuropathic pain.	Following traumatic peripheral nerve injury reinnervation of denervated targets may be achieved by regeneration of injured axons and by collateral sprouting of neighbor undamaged axons. Experimental models commonly use sciatic nerve injuries to assess nerve regeneration and neuropathic pain, but behavioral tests for evaluating sensory recovery often disregard the pattern of hindpaw innervation. This may lead to confounding attribution of recovery of sensory responses to improvement in sciatic nerve regeneration instead of collateral reinnervation by the undamaged saphenous nerve. We used a standardized methodology to assess the separate contribution of collateral and regenerative skin reinnervation on sensory responses. Section and suture of the sciatic nerve induced loss of sensibility in the lateral and central areas of the injured paw, but nociceptive responses rapidly recovered by expansion of the intact saphenous innervation territory. We used electronic Von Frey and Plantar test devices to measure mechanical and thermal withdrawal thresholds in specific sites of the injured paw: lateral site innervated by the sciatic nerve, medial site that remained innervated by the saphenous nerve, and central site originally innervated by the sciatic nerve but affected by saphenous sprouting. After sciatic section, signs of early hyperalgesia developed in medial and central paw areas due to saphenous sprouting and expansion. The regenerating sciatic nerve fibers reached the paw at 3-4weeks and a late mechanical hyperalgesia was observed at the lateral site. Immunohistochemical staining of sensory fibers innervating the medial and lateral areas revealed a different pattern of skin reinnervation. Hypersensitivity in the intact saphenous nerve area was paralleled by early fiber sprout growth in the subepidermal plexus, but not entering the epidermis. On the other side, late sciatic hyperalgesia was accompanied by gradual skin reinnervation after 4weeks. The standardization of algesimetry testing in sciatic nerve injury models, as proposed in this study, provides a suitable model for studying in parallel neuropathic pain and sensory nerve regeneration processes. Our results also indicate that collateral sprouting and axonal regeneration contribute differently in the initiation and maintenance of neuropathic pain. 
Difficulties of motion-onset VEP interpretation in school-age children.	In adults, motion-onset visual evoked potentials (M-VEPs) with a dominant N2 peak represent a useful diagnostic tool. However, it is difficult to use this type of VEP in children because of the long maturation (up to 18 years) of M-VEPs, which is characterised by a gradual decrease in N2 peak latency and shape development. Moreover, in some children, M-VEPs are difficult to identify with standard stimuli.
Visual evoked potential and psychophysical contrast thresholds in glaucoma.	We compared the diagnostic power of electrophysiologically and psychophysically measured contrast thresholds for the diagnosis of glaucoma. Additionally, we investigated whether combining results from the two methods improved diagnostic power.
The orexin component of fasting triggers memory processes underlying conditioned food selection in the rat.	To test the selectivity of the orexin A (OXA) system in olfactory sensitivity, the present study compared the effects of fasting and of central infusion of OXA on the memory processes underlying odor-malaise association during the conditioned odor aversion (COA) paradigm. Animals implanted with a cannula in the left ventricle received ICV infusion of OXA or artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) 1 h before COA acquisition. An additional group of intact rats were food-deprived for 24 h before acquisition. Results showed that the increased olfactory sensitivity induced by fasting and by OXA infusion was accompanied by enhanced COA performance. The present results suggest that fasting-induced central OXA release influenced COA learning by increasing not only olfactory sensitivity, but also the memory processes underlying the odor-malaise association. 
An inability to exclude visual noise in migraine.	People with migraine are relatively poor at judging the direction of motion of coherently moving signal dots when interspersed with noise dots drifting in random directions, a task known as motion coherence. Although this has been taken as evidence of impoverished global pooling of motion signals, it could also arise from unreliable coding of local direction (of each dot), or an inability to segment signal from noise (noise-exclusion). The aim of this study was to determine how these putative limits contribute to impoverished motion processing in migraine.
Higher order image structure enables boundary segmentation in the absence of luminance or contrast cues.	Lower order image statistics, which can be described by an image's Fourier energy content, enable segmentation when they are different on either side of a boundary. We have previously demonstrated that the spatial distribution of the energy in an image (described by its higher order statistics or structure) could influence segmentation thresholds for contrast- and orientation-defined boundaries, even though it was the same on either side of the boundary and thus task irrelevant (Zavitz & Baker, 2013). Here we examined whether higher order statistics can also enable segmentation when boundaries are defined by differences in structure or density of texture elements. We used micropattern-based naturalistic synthetic textures to manipulate the sparseness, global phase alignment, and local phase alignment of carrier textures and measured segmentation thresholds based on forced-choice judgments of boundary orientation. We found that both global phase structure and sparseness, but not local phase alignment, enable segmentation and that local structure also has a small effect on segmentation thresholds in both cases. Simulations of a two-stage filter model with a compressive intermediate nonlinearity can reproduce the major features of the experimental data, segmenting boundaries defined by higher order statistics alone while capturing the influence of global image structure on segmentation thresholds. 
Corneal sensitivity in albinos.	The study reports measurements of corneal sensitivity in albino eyes obtained with a Cochet-Bonnet aesthesiometer. It was found to be much less sensitive (150% on average) than in a group of normal eyes. This result may have some bearing on the correction of albinos by contact lenses.
Two components of rapid sensory adaptation in a cockroach mechanoreceptor neuron.	1. The femoral tactile spine of the cockroach is innervated by a single sensory neuron with its cell body in the spine. A step deflection of the spine produces a burst of action potentials which decays to zero in approximately 1 s. This rapid adaptation occurs during encoding of action potentials and can be studied by extracellular electrical stimulation of the sensory neuron. 2. The threshold current of the neuron is labile, increasing with depolarization and decreasing with mild hyperpolarization. During rapid adaptation, the threshold current increases to exceed any steady stimulating current. 3. The dynamic behavior of the threshold current in the tactile spine neuron was observed following step changes in membrane current. The threshold current followed a trajectory which could always be well fitted by a sum of two exponential decays with time constants of approximately 100 and 1,000 ms. 4. The amplitude of the slow component of threshold change was proportional to the size of the step change in membrane current but saturated at strong hyperpolarizations. Its time constant decreased monotonically with depolarization. In contrast, the fast component had more complex behavior, changing biphasically with step amplitude and reversing with initial hyperpolarizations. Its time constant was maximal at the resting membrane potential. 5. The amplitude of the fast component was strongly reduced by treatment with N-chlorosuccinimide (NCS), an agent which reduces sodium channel inactivation. It was not affected by some agents known to block potassium channels. 6. The slow component was not affected by NCS, tetraethyl-ammonium chloride, apamin, or charybdotoxin. 7. Approximate contributions of the two components to the steady-state threshold were reconstructed from step responses. These indicate that the slow component dominates when the receptor is hyperpolarized. However, during depolarizations from rest, as occur with normal stimulation, the two components contribute approximately equally to threshold changes.
Lingual vibrotactile threshold shift during magnitude-estimation scaling: effects on magnitude-estimation responses and scaling behavior.	The purpose of the present study was to determine if lingual vibrotactile threshold shifts occurred during magnitude-estimation scaling of suprathreshold stimuli presented to the dorsal surface of the tongue. Possible relationships of the lingual vibrotactile threshold shifts to suprathreshold stimulus intensity, magnitude-estimation responses, and overall scaling behavior were explored. A single group of 24 subjects with an age range of 18 to 22 years participated in this study. Each subject performed two magnitude-estimation tasks. In one of the tasks, threshold of sensitivity was determined after every suprathreshold numerical response of the subject. If a threshold shift was recorded, threshold was allowed to return to the pretest baseline level before continuing to the next suprathreshold stimulus presentation. The results showed that threshold shift did occur during lingual vibrotactile magnitude-estimation scaling, and that it was related to suprathreshold stimulus intensity. The results also showed that the numerical magnitude-estimation responses of the subjects were different for the two scaling tasks. Overall scaling behavior of the subjects in the form of power-function exponents was not different for the two tasks.
Psychophysically derived visual mechanisms in turtle. II--Spatial properties.	Visual mechanisms isolated in Pseudemys by the two-color threshold technique of Stiles show peak wavelength sensitivities at 650 nm (red light) and 540 nm (green light). Ricco critical areas were measured for the two test wavelengths under three conditions: dark, moderate and intense backgrounds. As expected, critical spatial areas decreased with light adaptation. Under dark adaptation only rods and red-sensitive cones were operative, and one photon per 12 rods was sufficient for green-light threshold, as was one photon per four red-sensitive cones for red-light threshold. Rods apparently pool their information among the several receptors within the threshold area. Under light adaptation, rods were not functional and thresholds were determined by red-sensitive and green-sensitive cones alone. Cones did not share information over many receptors, requiring close to one photon per receptor to function at threshold.
Contrast modulated maskers: test of a late nonlinearity hypothesis.	The contrast threshold for detecting a low frequency test grating in the presence of a contrast-modulated high frequency masker is heavily dependent upon the phase relations between the gratings: test stimuli in + or - cosine phase are much more detectable than those in + or -sine phase. The present study tests a new hypothesis of these and related phenomena. It is based on the report by Derrington (1987) that recordings from cat geniculate on-center and off-center X-cells exhibit significant point nonlinearities. The major empirical finding of this study is that for highly practiced observers, sine-phase test stimuli and cosine-phase test stimuli are similar in two important respects: (1) there exist phase uncertainty effects; that is, detection thresholds for test stimuli differing in phase by 180 degrees are elevated when they are intermixed within the same block of trials, rather than being presented in separate blocks; (2) phase identification thresholds for test stimuli differing in phase by 180 degrees are the same as their detection thresholds. The new nonlinearity hypothesis cannot account for the results obtained with sine-phase test stimuli, though it gives a better account of the results with cosine-phase stimuli than does the early nonlinearity hypothesis which was tested and rejected by Nachmias and Rogowitz (1983).
Chromatic opponency in 3-month-old human infants.	A test spectral sensitivity curve was measured on 3-month-old human infants using a steady 8 degrees test light on a 580 nm adapting field. The data show a "Sloan" notch near 580 nm and a peak near 610 nm. The results are compared to standard nonopponent and opponent models of color vision, and it is concluded that 3-month-old infants have a chromatically opponent detection channel.
Direction perception in complex dynamic displays: the integration of direction information.	We created random-dot cinematograms in which each dot's successive movements were independently drawn from a Gaussian distribution of directions of some characteristic bandwidth. Such a display, comprising many different, spatially intermingled local motion vectors, can produce a percept of global coherent motion in a single direction. Using pairs of cinematograms, direction discrimination of global motion was measured under various conditions of direction distribution bandwidth, exposure duration, and constancy of each dot's path. A line-element model gave an excellent account of the results: (i) over a considerable range, discrimination was unaffected by the cinematogram's direction distribution bandwidth; (ii) only for the briefest presentations did changes in duration have an effect; (iii) so long as the overall directional content of the cinematogram remained unchanged, the constancy or randomness of individual dots' paths did not affect discrimination. Finally, the line-element model continued to give a good account of the results when we made additional measurements with uniform rather than Gaussian distributions of directions.
Foveal cone thresholds.	The method of constant stimuli was used to estimate the psychometric functions for detection of one or two flashes when two light pulses were presented. The test stimulus consisted of two simultaneous 0.5 msec, 1' pulses separated by 17'. Observers reported seeing 0, 1 or 2 flashes. A computer-controlled direct-view apparatus allowed sampling of slightly different foveal locations on each trial. The data were analyzed assuming a binomial probability for sampling of L and M cones and Poisson distributed quantal fluctuation. Under these assumptions, the measurements imply that detection requires a minimum of 5-7 quanta absorbed per cone, and that the effective number of cones illuminated by the 1', 0.5 msec pulse is two. The estimated L/M cone ratio was 1.6 for one observer and 4.0 for the other; each observer's ratio was in general agreement with the value estimated independently by heterochromatic flicker photometry.
Psychophysically derived visual mechanisms in turtle. I--Spectral properties.	Two-color increment thresholds were measured in turtle using a behavioral avoidance paradigm. Four visual mechanisms were isolated, and their spectral sensitivities were compared to action spectra of photoreceptors known to occur in this animal. One visual mechanism appears to be mediated by rods and red-sensitive cones at low background intensities, a second mechanism by coupled red- and green-sensitive cones at intermediate levels, a third and fourth mechanism by red-sensitive, and green-sensitive single cones, respectively, acting alone at high background intensities.
Response pooling between chromatic and luminance systems.	Two experiments were designed to examine interactions of the responses of the chromatic and luminance systems to suprathreshold stimuli. We measured simple reaction times (RT) to eight photometrically matched (1 cd/m2) wavelengths between 448 and 658 nm. These chromatic test stimuli were incrementally presented on either a spatially coextensive 1.2 or a larger 2 degrees steady white background. Sectors of the outer annulus region (between 1.2 and 2 degrees) could be removed to allow systematic variation of the extent of the spatial contour between test and background fields. When the white background was spatially coincident with the test field, RTs showed trichromatic saturation-like wavelength dependence, with a maximum RT at 572 nm. As white sectors were added to the annulus (introducing spatial transients between test and background fields), RTs became less and less wavelength-dependent, and were nearly wavelength-independent when a full annulus was used. The data were analysed in terms of a two-system RT model for processing chromaticity and luminance.
Descending influences on the cutaneous receptive fields of postsynaptic dorsal column neurones in the cat.	1. The influence of activity in descending systems on the cutaneous receptive field properties of postsynaptic dorsal column (PSDC) neurones has been investigated in chloralose-anaesthetized cats. The main aim of the study was to determine whether the receptive field boundaries of PSDC neurones are under the control of systems descending from the brain. 2. Single-unit recordings were made from the ascending axons of PSDC units in the dorsal columns. Receptive fields were analysed using light tactile and noxious mechanical and thermal stimuli, both before and during a reversible block of spinal conduction produced by cooling the cord rostral of the recording site. 3. The light tactile excitatory fields of PSDC neurones were largely unaffected by the cold-block procedure. 4. In contrast, both the sensitivity of PSDC neurones to noxious stimuli and the area of skin from which they could be effectively excited by such stimuli were found to be profoundly modified by interruption of descending activity. Two-thirds of the units excited by noxious pinch responded more vigorously in the cold-blocked state and one-half from an expanded area of skin. Responses to noxious radiant heat were similarly modified. 5. Inhibition evoked in PSDC neurones, whether by light tactile or noxious stimuli, involved predominantly segmental mechanisms since it remained effective in the cold-blocked state. 6. It is concluded that neurones of the PSDC system are amongst those dorsal horn neurones with receptive field geometries which may be modified by activity in descending systems.
Decreased thresholds of pain sensation and defense flexor reflex in patients with ischemic heart disease]	It was demonstrated that patients with coronary heart disease with coronary angiographically documented stenosing coronary atherosclerosis and frequent episodes of angina pectoris had significantly higher pain threshold in response to electric skin irritation and greater defense unconditioned flexor reflex R-III threshold than healthy subjects and patients with chest pain of extracoronary genesis.
Pressure pain thresholds and thermal nociceptive thresholds in chronic tension-type headache.	The nociceptive thresholds to mechanical and thermal stimuli in patients with chronic tension-type headache were compared. Palpation of pericranial tenderness was performed in 50 patients and a total tenderness score (TTS) was calculated. Palpation was repeated, and pressure pain thresholds (PPTs) were determined with a pressure algometer in the temporal and occipital regions. In 32 of the patients, pain thresholds for heat and cold and limens for detection of non-painful temperature changes were determined in the hands and the temporal regions. Twenty-four healthy volunteers served as controls. Scores obtained by manual palpation (TTS) at the first and second visit were positively correlated. A negative correlation between headache severity and PPT was found in the temporal region. A positive correlation between PPT in the temporal and occipital region was found, and PPT and TTS were negatively correlated. Thermal pain thresholds were consistently less extreme in patients compared to controls, and patients reporting severe headache on the examination day were those most sensitive to thermal pain. No difference was found between patients and controls with respect to detection of temperature changes. A correlation was found between PPT and the corresponding cold pain thresholds, but no correlation could be demonstrated between TTS and thermal pain thresholds. In conclusion, headache patients had decreased pain perception thresholds. Chronic tension-type headache might be a result of dysmodulation of nociceptive impulses, but it is likely that sensitized nociceptors also play a role.
Measurements of human pressure-pain thresholds on fingers and toes.	Pressure-pain thresholds (PPT) were measured on fingers and toes with a hand-held electronic pressure algometer in 15 males and 15 females. The pressure algometer offered easy control of pressure application rate. The intra-individual coefficient of variation, based on repeated PPT measurements with a 1 week interval was 14%. The inter-individual coefficient of variation was 28% for females and 33% for males. In the course of 10 consecutive PPT measurements with short intervals (10 and 20 sec), no significant change in PPT was observed. PPT was found to be 50% higher in males than in females (P less than 0.0001). Slightly but significantly higher PPT values were found on the dominant compared to the non-dominant side (P less than 0.005).
Psychophysics of reading. VI--The role of contrast in low vision.	The effect of contrast on reading performance was measured in 19 low-vision observers with a wide range of visual disorders and degrees of vision loss. The observers read text composed of 6 deg letters, ranging in contrast from 0.96 down to contrast threshold for reading. Reading performance was characterized by two parameters: peak reading rate is the reading rate at maximum contrast, and critical contrast is the contrast at which reading rate drops to half its maximum value. Peak reading rates were lower in observers with central field loss than in observers with intact central vision. In 16 of 19 cases, critical contrasts were higher for low-vision observers than for normal observers (averaging 3.9 times higher), indicating a decreased tolerance to contrast reduction. Values of critical contrast were closely linked to contrast sensitivity for letters (r = 0.87), but did not vary systematically with type of vision loss. Five observers read white-on-black text faster than black-on-white at both high and low contrasts. Four of the five had cloudy ocular media. We attribute this contrast polarity effect to abnormal light scatter in eyes with cloudy media. We examined the hypothesis that our low-vision observers' deviation from normal performance could be characterized (1) by a contrast scaling factor representing an attenuation of effective contrast and (2) that this scale factor could be identified with reduced contrast sensitivity. Such a description provided a good account for subjects with cloudy ocular media, where contrast attenuation results from intraocular light scatter. It provided a first order, but incomplete account for subjects with field loss where contrast attenuation is related to contrast sensitivity losses due to neural factors.
Responses in small hand muscles from magnetic stimulation of the human brain.	1. The magnetic field generated by a brief current in a 9 cm diameter flat circular coil varies rapidly with time and when applied over the human scalp it is capable of exciting motor structures subserving the small hand muscles. With a peak magnetic field at the centre of the coil of 0.9-1.6 Tesla, single scalp stimuli produced twitches in the right abductor digiti minimi (a.d.m.), first dorsal interosseous (f.d.i.) and adductor pollicis muscles. Compound muscle action potentials (c.m.a.p.s) and single motor units from these muscles were recorded. 2. The twitch force and corresponding c.m.a.p. were greatly enhanced by voluntary background contraction of the muscle and depended on the direction and intensity of the magnetic field. Response amplitude was maximal with the stimulating coil centred near the vertex but precise coil position was not critical. 3. When the orthodromic volley set up in the peripheral nerve by magnetic stimulation of the brain collided with a maximal antidromic volley set up by stimulation at the wrist, remaining electromyographic (e.m.g.) activity gave evidence of multiple firing of some spinal motoneurones, provided that the muscle exerted a slight voluntary background contraction and the stimulus intensity was above threshold for relaxed muscle. 4. When the muscle changed from total relaxation to a slightly contracted state the onset latency of the c.m.a.p. was shortened by about 3 ms without further change when the background contraction increased. In slightly contracted muscle, c.m.a.p. onset latency was little affected over a wide range of stimulus intensities and was unaffected by the position of the stimulating coil within an area of 6 X 6 cm over the vertex. 5. Single motor units, recorded with needle electrodes in the a.d.m. or f.d.i. muscle, could be caused to discharge at a constant latency by threshold brain stimuli. Different single motor units had latencies varying from 22.4 to 32.1 ms. The same motor unit was activated from different coil positions up to 7 cm apart. These motor units had the lowest thresholds for voluntary activation. Stronger stimuli caused the same motor unit to discharge 1.5 ms earlier. 6. The threshold for excitation of pathways to the a.d.m. muscle was reduced by voluntary contraction of the contralateral a.d.m. and by contraction of the ipsilateral f.d.i. muscles. Using these procedures, the c.m.a.p. of totally relaxed a.d.m. muscle showed a more than 2-fold amplitude increase, a shortening of onset latency to a similar degree as with contraction of the muscle itself, and single motor units in the a.d.m. muscle discharged 1.5 ms earlier.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Response characteristics of pulmocutaneous arterial baroreceptors in the toad, Bufo marinus.	1. Response characteristics of baroreceptors with receptive fields in the pulmocutaneous artery (p.c.a.) were determined in pithed toads by applying pressure steps, ramps, sine waves, and volume infusions into the vascularly isolated and perfused p.c.a. 2. The baroreceptors exhibited phasic and tonic discharge thresholds (30.3 +/- 2.3 and 36.2 +/- 2.8 mmHg respectively) which were above mean arterial pressure values reported for conscious undisturbed toads. They are comparable, in this respect, to non-myelinated mammalian arterial baroreceptors. 3. The maximum-phasic and minimum-adapted discharge frequencies of the p.c.a. baroreceptors were low (30 and 2-3 spikes s-1, respectively), but resembled those reported for mammalian non-myelinated baroreceptors when an adjustment was made for the difference in the temperature of mammalian and amphibian preparations. 4. The sensitivity of the baroreceptor discharge frequency to pressure (delta F/delta P) was estimated from pressure-step and pressure-ramp stimuli. Both estimates were greater than those reported for mammalian systemic arterial baroreceptors after the values were normalized to the maximum discharge frequency of the receptors. delta F/delta P and saturation discharge frequency values estimated from ramp stimuli increased with the dP/dt of pressure ramps. 5. The diameter of the p.c.a. was measured by sonomicrometry in toads anaesthetized with urethane. The diameter pulsation was 7.7 +/- 0.3% of the mean diameter (3.5 +/- 0.1 mm) at a mean pulse pressure of 22 +/- 1 mmHg, and Peterson's pressure-strain modulus was calculated to be 4.0 X 10(5) +/- 0.3 X 10(5) dyn cm-2, which suggests that the p.c.a. is highly compliant, and in this respect is comparable to the pulmonary artery, but not to systemic arteries, in mammals. Baroreceptor discharge began near the point of peak dynamic compliance (dV/dP) and continued as dV/dP decreased. Increasing the rate of infusion reduced the peak dV/dP, but increased the baroreceptor discharge frequency. 6. The response to sinusoidal oscillating pressure stimuli was distorted by rectification. Increasing the frequency of sinusoidal stimulation over the range 0.05-1.0 cycles s-1 reduced the number of spikes per cycle, but increased the mean discharge frequency.
Complex sound analysis (frequency resolution, filtering and spectral integration) by single units of the inferior colliculus of the cat.	The central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC) is a center of convergence of brainstem input and is critical for auditory information processing. Here, the analysis of complex sound spectra by single neurons in the ICC is investigated. Several measures of frequency resolution (excitatory/inhibitory tuning curves, effective bandwidths, critical ratio bands, critical bands derived using narrowband masking and two-tone separation paradigms) have been obtained from the responses of these neurons at sound pressure levels (SPL) up to 80 dB above the units' response thresholds (nearly 110 dB SPL). Among our results are the following: (1) Narrowband masking measures of critical bands from ICC neurons closely parallel behavioral measures using the same stimulus paradigm. (2) Frequency resolution power as measured by critical bandwidths varies little as a function of stimulus intensity. (3) Tuning curves of ICC neurons provide no simple basis for predicting the frequency filtering of the same neurons excited by complex sound spectra. (4) There is a frequency dependence of all measures of frequency resolution similar to that found in psychophysical determinations of critical bandwidths. That is, spatial frequency resolution in the cochlea is the origin for the resolution found in the ICC and in behavioral tests. (5) Lateral inhibition at the level of the ICC clearly plays a role in frequency resolution. (6) Frequency resolution is encoded by response rate changes of ICC neurons and is independent of tone response threshold, response latency, spontaneous activity, tone response type, binaural response type. It is concluded that spectral analysis of sound is established by processes, including lateral inhibition, independent of other basic response properties of neurons at the level of the ICC.
Effect of spaceflight on thresholds of perception of angular and linear motion.	Psychophysical studies of vestibular function have been carried out in order to study adaptation within the vestibular sensory system to the weightless environment of orbital spaceflight. No significant change in the threshold of detection of whole-body angular acceleration was found, either during flight or post-flight. Experiments involving the perception of whole-body linear acceleration have yielded somewhat inconsistent results, although the weight of evidence points to an elevation and increased variability of threshold in the first few days following spaceflight. Although a change in the excitability of the saccular and macular otoliths in microgravity cannot be excluded, it is more probable that this decreased sensitivity is a manifestation of a central adaptive mechanism, in which the "weighting" of gravi-receptor information is reduced. Enhancement of the ability to detect linear acceleration stimuli, exhibited by some astronauts in microgravity, may be a manifestation of heightened utilization of cutaneous rather than otolithic cues.
Effect of tone-pulse rise time on rate-level functions of cat auditory cortex neurons: excitatory and inhibitory processes shaping responses to tone onset.	1. The responses of cat auditory cortex neurons are largely dominated by transient stimulus events, including tone-pulse onset. In addition, these neurons often receive sensitive inhibitory inputs in tone frequency-intensity domains flanking the excitatory one centered at characteristic frequency (CF). These observations suggest that auditory cortex neurons might be sensitive to the spectral splatter that occurs at tone onset due to the tone-pulse envelope shape. 2. To investigate this hypothesis, single neurons in the primary auditory cortex of anesthetized cats were studied for the form of their spike-rate versus tone-level functions using CF tone pulses of different rise times. Stimuli were presented to the contralateral ear using a calibrated, sealed stimulus delivery system. 3. Some neurons with monotonic rate-level functions for conventional (5-10 ms) rise-time tones were relatively insensitive to variations in tone-pulse rise time. Other monotonic neurons showed rate-level functions that became increasingly bell shaped for shorter rise-time stimuli. All neurons with bell-shaped, nonmonotonic rate-level functions for conventional rise-time tones became increasingly nonmonotonic for shorter rise-time signals. In the same neurons, lengthening of tone rise times typically reduced the slope of the high-intensity, descending limb of the rate-level function, in some cases to zero. 4. This pattern of rise-time effects is consistent with previous evidence on the association between rate-level function shape and the presence of inhibitory tone response areas flanking the excitatory one at CF. The present data suggest that cortical neurons are sensitive to the gross shape of the short-term stimulus spectrum at tone onset, and that for many neurons, the nonmonotonic form of CF tone rate level functions may be configured as much by the rate of tone onset as by the plateau amplitude of a tone pulse.
Organization of auditory cortex in the albino rat: sound frequency.	1. Responses of neurons in the auditory cortex of the albino rat were examined using microelectrode mapping techniques. Characteristic frequencies were determined for numerous electrode penetrations across the cortical surface in individual animals. A primary auditory area was identified in the posterolateral neocortex that was characterized by short latency responses to tone bursts and tonotopic organization with high frequencies represented rostrally and low frequencies, caudally. Within this area cells with similar characteristic frequencies were aligned in a dorsoventral orientation to form isofrequency contours. 2. Tuning curves obtained from primary auditory cortex were characteristically "V" shaped with Q10's ranging from 0.97 to 28.4. Maximum Q10 values increased monotonically with characteristic frequency (CF). The lowest thresholds at CF closely approximated the behavioral audiogram for the albino rat. Many neurons, however, had CF thresholds well above the behavioral limit. 3. Areas were found dorsal and ventral to the primary auditory cortex in which CF's were clearly discontinuous with the neighboring isofrequency contours. These data suggest the presence of other auditory fields, the detailed characteristics of which have yet to be examined.
Vibratory hypersensitivity in idiopathic scoliosis.	This study determined whether a significant difference in response to vibratory stimuli was consistently present in a large group of children with idiopathic scoliosis as compared with age-matched controls. Fifty-eight unselected adolescent females with documented progressive idiopathic scoliosis were studied along with age-matched controls. Threshold to detection of a vibratory stimulus was measured in both the right and left upper and lower extremities. Results indicated that highly significant differences existed between scoliotic children and controls at all sites tested (p less than 0.01), with scoliotic children being more sensitive than controls. The results support the presence of a central aberration in posterior column function that may be a primary etiology of idiopathic scoliosis.
Regional variation of contrast sensitivity across the retina of the achromat: sensitivity of human rod vision.	1. Detection thresholds for two-dimensional Gabor functions of varying spatial and temporal frequency were used to investigate the post-receptoral sensitivity across the retina of the typical and complete achromat. 2. Under photopic conditions there is no evidence for post-receptoral cone function at any retinal eccentricity investigated. Sensitivity saturates in a way consistent with known psychophysical and electrophysiological measures of rod saturation. This occurs in a unitary fashion across the retina. 3. Under scotopic conditions the regional fall-off in spatio-temporal sensitivity is similar for the achromat and duplex retina. This suggests that the rods in the achromat make normal neural connections. 4. Taken together this supports the contention that the typical and complete achromat is a functional rod monochromat and hence can be used to explore the sensitivity of the isolated rod post-receptoral mechanism under mesopic conditions where its sensitivity is optimal. This is where its contribution is most difficult to isolate in the duplex retina. 5. For the human rod mechanism, mesopic post-receptoral sensitivity for all spatio-temporal stimuli is optimal in the central region of the retina and falls off as a function of eccentricity. 6. For localized stimuli, peripheral spatial sensitivity is reduced evenly at all spatial frequencies compared with that of the central retina. A similar displacement of the spatial sensitivity function of the rod mechanism occurs as illuminance is reduced. 7. For localized stimuli, temporal acuity of the rod mechanism is around 20-25 Hz irrespective of retinal position. As the illuminance is further lowered dynamics of the rod pathway are reduced irrespective of retinal position and the sensitivity function maintains a bandpass shape. 8. The regional distribution sensitivity of the rod mechanism changes as illuminance is reduced from mesopic to scotopic levels.
Comparison of the after-effects of impulse conduction on threshold at nodes of Ranvier along single frog sciatic axons.	1. Single axons were teased from the distal end of whole frog sciatic nerve and impulses were recorded with a suction electrode. The whole nerve trunk was stimulated using a gross electrode that was slowly moved for several centimetres along the length of the nerve. The threshold for initiation of an action potential showed periodic minima which were interpreted as the location of nodes of Ranvier. 2. Internodal distances were uniform along individual fibres but differed among fibres having matching conduction velocities, suggesting that other individuating characteristics are also important in determining the spacing of nodes. 3. A standard protocol was used to measure the activity dependence of threshold. Nodes along any given fibre were found to be alike in the dependence of threshold on impulse activity. Both the superexcitable phase and the depressed phase of the after-effects of impulse activity were similar for successive nodes. This suggests that the activity dependence of an unbranched length of axon can be well characterized by looking at any one of its nodes. 4. Comparison of nodes from different axons showed large variations in activity dependence. Depressibility, denoting the relative tendency of an axon to show depression, was quantified either as the initial rate of rise in threshold (percentage increase/min) following the onset of repetitive stimulation or as the total rise in threshold (percentage increase) after 5 min of exposure to a standardized rate of repetitive stimulation. By either measure depressibility differed among axons more than it differed among nodes from a single axon. 5. Superexcitability following single impulses was measured in the absence of depression. Axons exhibiting a larger decrease in threshold during the superexcitable phase also tended to show larger depressions relative to other axons when stimulated at a given rate. 6. There was little correlation between conduction velocity and the magnitude of either the depressed phase or the superexcitable phase within the population of fibres studied. This suggests that axon diameter alone (as indicated by conduction velocity) cannot be responsible for the wide variations in the amplitude of the depressed phase or the superexcitable phase. 7. The results suggest that some process exists to constrain the nodes along a fibre to have a uniform activity dependence.
Anterior pretectal stimulation alters the responses of spinal dorsal horn neurones to cutaneous stimulation in the rat.	1. The behavioural effects of stimulating sites in the anterior pretectal nucleus (a.p.t.n.) were studied in unanaesthetized rats; 1-2 weeks later these rats were anaesthetized with Fluothane and the effects of similar electrical stimulation determined on the responses of spinal neurones to cutaneous stimuli. 2. Stimulation of the a.p.t.n. for 15 s with 35 microA r.m.s. sine-wave current inhibited the tail-flick response to noxious heat of unanaesthetized animals for up to 1 h. 3. Stimulation of the same sites in anaesthetized rats inhibited the responses to noxious heat of forty-two multireceptive and two high-threshold neurones located deep in the spinal dorsal horn. 4. The high-threshold responses of seven cells were unaffected or slightly potentiated by pretectal stimulation. These seven cells were all recorded from the dorsal margin of the dorsal horn, were not multireceptive neurones and could be made to discharge only by water above 50 degrees C. 5. The responses of twelve multireceptive cells to low-threshold stimulation were not affected by pretectal stimulation. All these cells were recorded from deep within the dorsal horn. 6. On ten occasions, cells deep in the dorsal horn were identified as projection neurones which were driven antidromically by high-frequency (300 Hz) stimulation of the contralateral anterolateral tract at cervical levels. The high-threshold responses of all these cells were reduced by pretectal stimulation. No cells were driven antidromically by pretectal stimulation. 7. Ipsilateral lesions of the dorsolateral funiculus abolished the inhibitory effects of prectectal stimulation. Lesions of the dorsal columns were without effect. 8. It is concluded that stimulation of the a.p.t.n. inhibits the tail-flick reflex of unanaesthetized rats and inhibits the high-threshold discharge of deep dorsal horn cells to cutaneous stimuli in anaesthetized rats. Cells recorded from the dorsal margin of the dorsal horn are not affected. The inhibition is mediated via the dorsolateral funiculus and affects cells which project rostrally in the contralateral anterolateral funiculus.
Synaptic activation of slow depolarization in rat supraoptic nucleus neurones in vitro.	1. The effects of synaptic activation on rat supraoptic nucleus (s.o.n.) neurones were studied in the hypothalamic slice preparation. Intracellular recordings were obtained from forty-one probable magnocellular neuroendocrine cells using microelectrodes filled with 3 M-potassium acetate. Responses to single and repetitive stimulation of the area dorsolateral to the s.o.n., which would be expected to activate a cholinergic pathway (Hatton, Ho & Mason, 1983), were analysed. 2. In forty of forty-one cells, responses to single stimuli consisted of a short-latency excitatory post-synaptic potential (e.p.s.p.), which was often followed by a brief burst of fast depolarizing events which resembled spontaneous e.p.s.p.s. When the membrane was depolarized, single stimuli could consistently produce a burst of action potentials. 3. Brief trains of orthodromic stimuli produced three effects in most cells. Spontaneous fast depolarizing events, which appeared to be primarily e.p.s.p.s. significantly increased in frequency after the train. A slow membrane depolarization, which lasted up to 1-2 min, was observed in twenty-eight of forty-one cells. In several cells the slow depolarization was accompanied by an increase in input resistance (Ri). In some cells an after-discharge occurred during the slow depolarization. Slow depolarizations were observed in each of eleven phasic neurones, and in a smaller percentage of non-phasic and silent cells. 4. All components of the response to dorsolateral stimulation could be reduced or blocked in low-Ca2+, high-Mg2+ bathing medium. 5. Slow depolarizations were observed when action potentials were not elicited by the stimulus train. The slow depolarization was still present after manipulations that blocked discharge during the stimulus train, including injection of hyperpolarizing current and diffusion of the quaternary ammonium compound QX314. These data argue that the slow depolarization can occur independent of spike depolarizing after-potentials (d.a.p.s). 6. In some cells antidromic stimulation at an intensity just suprathreshold for the recorded cell did not produce comparable bursts of fast depolarizing events or slow depolarizations; similar periods of depolarizing current injection, which produced repetitive discharge, also did not mimic the effects of orthodromic stimulation. 7. The fast depolarizing events appear to reflect spontaneous e.p.s.p.s; increases in the frequency of these events may reflect the after-discharge of nearby neurones that are presynaptic to the recorded neurone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Quantitative analysis of laryngeal mechanosensitivity in the cat and rabbit.	1. Single afferent fibres in the internal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve which responded to light touch or gentle probing of discrete areas of the exposed epithelium of the opened larynx were identified in anaesthetized, paralysed cats (148 fibres) and rabbits (58 fibres). 2. A quantitative examination of the sensitivity of these laryngeal mechanoreceptors to both static (step indentations) and dynamic (vibratory) forms of mechanical stimulation was undertaken using a servo-controlled mechanical stimulator. 3. In both species two predominant classes of mechanoreceptors were observed (Boushey, Richardson, Widdicombe & Wise, 1974). One class was distinguished by a regular and continuous pattern of activity at a frequency of 10-70 Hz (tonic fibres, sixty-six in cat, thirty-five in rabbit). The other class was silent or (more rarely) irregularly active at a very low frequency (silent fibres, eighty-two in cat, twenty-three in rabbit). 4. The location of the receptive fields was determined by manual probing. Inter-species and regional variations in receptive field location were observed for the two fibre groups. 5. Conduction velocity was measured for twenty-one tonic and seven silent fibres in the rabbit by a pre-triggered averaging technique. The results obtained (tonic: range 10.8-30.0, mean +/- S.E. of mean 21.4 +/- 1.2 m/s; silent: 14.8-28.6, 20.4 +/- 1.8 m/s) were characteristic of group III afferent fibres but were not significantly different for the two classes. 6. Both classes of receptor showed a response at the onset of a step indentation of the region of the mucosa that corresponded to their receptive field. Subsequent to this brief initial response the behaviour of the two classes diverged markedly. Tonic fibres were invariably slowly adapting whereas most (forty-four out of fifty-five in cat; twenty-two out of twenty-three in rabbit) silent fibres were rapidly adapting, at least for smaller indentation amplitudes. 7. Receptors of both classes were readily entrained to discharge at the same frequency as the probe stimulator (1:1 entrainment) when this was made to vibrate upon the receptive area for test periods of 0.5 or 1.0 s. Tuning curves were constructed of the minimum amplitudes required to elicit 1:1 entrainment throughout an entire test period at various frequencies. 8. Individual fibres in the two classes could be entrained at frequencies up to 400 Hz or more at sensitive (e.g. less than 100 microns) vibratory amplitudes. However, all fibres were less sensitive at these higher frequencies than at some lower point on the frequency scale.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Inhibitory control of local excitatory circuits in the guinea-pig hippocampus.	1. Exposure to the gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonist, picrotoxin, causes the discharge of hippocampal pyramidal cells to become synchronized. Synaptic mechanisms underlying the development of synchrony were investigated by recording from pairs of cells in the CA3 region of guinea-pig hippocampal slices. 2. Picrotoxin suppressed unitary inhibitory synaptic events. It appeared not to affect monosynaptic excitatory connections. Picrotoxin revealed latent excitatory connections in seven out of twenty-one dual recordings from burst-firing cells. 3. Post-synaptic events revealed by picrotoxin were elicited rarely by single action potentials. They were evoked with mean latencies of at least 8 ms and with more than 30% failures of transmission by bursts of three or more action potentials. They were suppressed by increasing extracellular Ca2+. They were considered to be mediated by polysynaptic excitatory pathways. 4. Polysynaptic excitatory post-synaptic potentials (e.p.s.p.s) had a smooth rising phase with time-to-peak of 15-40 ms and a falling phase of similar duration. Their amplitude was 2-3 mV at membrane potentials close to -70 mV. This shape was similar to that of summed e.p.s.p.s evoked by a burst of three to six action potentials at monosynaptic connections between CA3 cells. 5. One cell could evoke excitatory synaptic events in more than one follower cell, suggesting that axon collaterals mediating recurrent excitation were divergent. More than one polysynaptic excitatory pathway could exist between two cells. 6. We examined the role of recurrent excitatory synapses in the development of synchrony. As inhibition was suppressed by picrotoxin, simultaneous excitatory synaptic events appeared in recordings from pairs of cells. They occurred rhythmically at intervals of 0.5-3 s and grew in amplitude with time. Synchronous neuronal discharges were observed when the threshold for action potential generation was exceeded. 7. Firing induced in one cell could sometimes evoke a sequence of post-synaptic events in another cell as inhibition was suppressed. Initially, no connection was detected. On adding picrotoxin, a polysynaptic e.p.s.p. was revealed and with time longer-latency components were recruited to the synaptic event. The amplitude of later components grew until firing threshold was reached. 8. We suggest that synchronous firing develops due to the loss of inhibitory control over the spread of firing between CA3 pyramidal cells via divergent, polysynaptic, recurrent excitatory pathways.
Oscillatory movement displacement thresholds: resistance to optical image degradation.	Vernier acuity, under optimal conditions, appears remarkably resistant to image degradation. This characteristic has been used to assess neural function in cataract patients who exhibit poor spatial resolution. Conventional resolution tests fail to differentiate between neural and optical causes of visual loss. The oscillatory movement displacement threshold--the smallest amplitude of oscillation which gives rise to the perception of movement--provides an alternative hyperacuity test. This may offer advantages over vernier acuity. The effect of image defocus upon displacement thresholds for a sinusoidal contrast grating of spatial frequency 2 c deg-1 was investigated for high (15 Hz) and low (2 Hz) oscillation frequencies. With visible stationary references, subjects were more sensitive to oscillation frequencies of 2 Hz than to 15 Hz (F 1,9 = 33.34, p less than 0.005) whilst blur of up to 2 dioptres had no significant effect (F3,27 = 1.73, p greater than 0.1). Simulating media opacities by spatial degradation affected both grating acuity and contrast sensitivity functions, whilst displacement thresholds remained largely unaffected. Results suggest that oscillatory movement displacement thresholds may be of value in assessing ocular neural dysfunction in the presence of media opacities.
Facilitation and masking of briefly presented gratings: time-course and contrast dependence.	We measured two-alternative forced-choice contrast thresholds for briefly presented sinusoidal gratings in the presence of superimposed masking gratings of various contrasts, and at a range of onset asynchronies. Facilitation (lower thresholds) occurred when the mask was simultaneous, in-phase, and near-threshold, but was abolished at asynchronies of 50 msec or more and by presenting the test grating as a brief contrast reversal instead of a pulse. We argue that facilitation requires temporal summation of responses within the same neural channels, but our results do not distinguish between transducer and uncertainty models. Masking (threshold elevation) occurred over a broader range of asynchronies, and was not abolished by test contrast reversal. Masking and facilitation probably depend on different processes with different time-courses. The occurrence of masking at asynchronies outside the range of temporal summation suggests that a static, compressive transducer does not, in general, account for masking. Brief masking and prolonged contrast adaptation are very similar in magnitude, and as a function of contrast and relative spatial frequency. Masking and adaptation may have a common origin, but differ in speed of recovery.
Position and spatial frequency in large-scale localization judgments.	The frequency-channel model and the position, or "local-signs," model that have been proposed to account for hyperacuity (i.e. small-scale relative spatial localization) are examined in the context of large-scale relative spatial localization. As a basis for subsequent experiments, localization accuracy is measured over a large range of object separations, and previous findings that the "Weber fraction for localization" is constant are replicated. The effects on localization accuracy of both high- and low-spatial frequency components in the objects being localized are examined in some detail. Localization accuracy is found not to rely exclusively on either the high- or the low-frequency components. Neither the frequency-channel nor the position hypothesis as defined here is consistent with all of the observed results. However, with a slight modification, the position hypothesis can account qualitatively for all of the observed results, whereas no reasonable modification of the frequency-channel hypothesis appears able to do as well.
Scale invariant features of differential spatial displacement discrimination.	For a configuration of three blobs, with Gaussian spatial contrast profiles, at threshold luminance contrast, differential spatial displacement discrimination thresholds were determined. The blobs were arranged one above the other, at equal spatial intervals. Thresholds were determined for displacements of the middle blob both orthogonal to and along the axis joining the outer two blobs. Thresholds for both tasks were obtained as a function of both the resolution and the separation of the blobs. The thresholds for both tasks increased linearly with decreasing resolution (increasing blur), for a constant ratio of the resolution parameter and the separation of the outer two blobs. At all levels of resolution there are two blob-separation regimes, in which different strategies are used to compute differential spatial displacements. Independent of the level of resolution, transition between those regions occurs when the separation of the outer two blobs is a constant multiple (approx. 25) of their blur parameter. We interpret these results as further evidence for a scale-invariant mechanism for differential spatial displacement computation.
Illusory contour orientation discrimination.	Just noticeable differences (JNDs) in orientation for real lines and illusory contours were compared. JNDs in orientation of an illusory contour and of a real line differ by less than a factor two. JNDs in orientation of an illusory contour showed meridional variations similar to those obtained for a real line. By scaling measurements illusory contours are equally visible at all orientations, so meridional variations in illusory orientation discrimination reflect an anisotropy in orientation processing mechanisms. JNDs in orientation measured at an oblique reference orientation improve with practice for an illusory contour as well as for a real line. However while the effect of practice transfers from an illusory to a real contour, the reverse is not true. These results suggest that there are two paths for processing orientation: one activated only by real lines, the other concerned with both real and illusory contours.
Rod-cone interaction in monocular but not binocular pathways.	Photopic background stimulation elevates scotopic increment thresholds (rod-cone interaction) at moderate background levels when both test and concentric disk-background stimuli enter the same eye (monocular condition) but not when they enter different eyes (dichoptic condition). Only when background levels are made extremely high is there any measurable dichoptic interaction, and this interaction does not resemble that observed monocularly. Rod-cone interaction, as usually studied, is a property of monocular pathways in human vision.
Pupillometric measures of retinal sensitivity in infants and adults with retinitis pigmentosa.	Steady-state pupil diameter was measured in darkness and over a 9 log unit range of Ganzfeld illumination in 20 normal adults, 28 normal infants, 59 adults with retinitis pigmentosa, and 30 children at risk for retinitis pigmentosa. Pupil threshold was defined as the retinal illuminance necessary to decrease pupil diameter by 1.0 mm relative to the diameter in darkness. Spectral measurements in normal adults confirmed that pupil threshold was determined primarily by rods with this procedure. Pupil thresholds of newborns and infants did not differ significantly from those of normal adults. In patients with retinitis pigmentosa, elevations in pupil threshold were related to rod loss as indexed by reductions in rod ERG amplitude. Electroretinographic follow-up of 13 of the children at risk for retinitis pigmentosa showed normal rod ERG function in 5 children who had pupil thresholds within the normal range and significant rod ERG loss in 8 children who had elevated pupil thresholds.
Effect of surround configuration on increment thresholds of a tiny violet flash.	Increment thresholds were measured for a 5', 435-nm test flash (50 or 200 msec) on background fields of various wavelengths and spatial configurations. As the field diameter was increased, the detection threshold for the 50-msec test decreased rapidly and leveled off when the field diameter exceeded 20'. For short-to-middle wavelength fields (much less than or equal to 503 nm), the detection threshold for the 200-msec test varied with field diameter in a similar manner to those observed for the 50-msec tests, while for middle-to-long wavelength fields (much greater than or equal to 544 nm), the detection threshold continued to decrease even when the field diameter exceeded 20'. The temporal-integration properties and the threshold vs intensity curves were determined for 465-nm and 579-nm fields to specify the mechanisms responsible for the detection. It was shown that the detection thresholds of the test upon the large 579-nm field were characterized by the short-wavelength mechanism isolated by an intense yellow adapting field, whereas the detection thresholds of the test upon the small 579-nm or the 465-nm field showed an intrusion of a more sensitive alternate mechanism, presumably the middle-wavelength mechanism. It was suggested that the sensitivity of the S cone signals might be affected by spatially distributed signals from the longer-wavelength mechanisms.
Perception of random-dot symmetry and apparent movement at and near isoluminance.	There have been conflicting reports on whether apparent movement in random-dot kinematograms is abolished at isoluminance. The present results suggest that it is, provided that dynamic (uncorrelated) surrounds are used, and the subject has to report the shape of the target rather than the presence of movement in an isolated portion of the target. On the other hand, perception of random-dot symmetry is still possible at isoluminance. The reason for this difference appears to be the need for exact-position information in movement but not symmetry perception. Control experiments suggest that the effects are not due to artefacts such as chromatic aberration in the eye.
Positional uncertainty in peripheral and amblyopic vision.	Three experiments were performed to examine positional acuity and the role of spatial sampling in central, peripheral and amblyopic vision. In the first experiment, 3-line bisection acuity was compared to grating acuity. In normal foveal vision bisection acuity represents a hyperacuity. In anisometropic amblyopes, bisection acuity is reduced in rough proportion to their grating acuity. In strabismic amblyopes, and in the normal periphery, bisection acuity is reduced to a greater extent than grating acuity. This result implies that reduced contrast sensitivity of the spatial filters is not sufficient to account for the increased positional uncertainty found in peripheral vision and in strabismic amblyopia. In order to test the hypothesis that the high degree of positional uncertainty evident in these visual systems is a consequence of sparse spatial sampling, bisection thresholds and width discrimination thresholds were measured with stimuli comprised of discrete samples. The results showed that normal foveal vision and the vision of anisometropic amblyopes show little benefit from adding discrete samples to the stimulus. In contrast, the normal periphery, and the central field of strabismic amblyopes demonstrate marked positional uncertainty which can be efficiently reduced in proportion to the square root of the number of samples (up to about 10) comprising the stimulus in the direction orthogonal to the discrimination cue. In aggregate the results suggest that anisometropic and strabismic amblyopia are fundamentally different. The positional uncertainty in anisometropic amblyopia is consistent with the reduced sensitivity of the spatial filters. The data of the normal periphery and of the central field of strabismic amblyopes suggest that the cortical sampling grain imposes a fundamental limit upon their positional acuity.
Receptive field size of human motion detection units.	Receptive field sizes of motion detector units in the human visual system were determined using a summation technique. Contrast sensitivity was measured for detecting the direction of motion of a drifting (8 Hz) sinewave grating (0.01-30.0 c/deg) multiplied by a stationary Gaussian envelope, for various widths of the Gaussian envelope. For each test spatial frequency, sensitivity increased linearly with aperture width up to a certain limit, and thereafter at a rate consistent with a model incorporating probability summation over space and between channels. The limit of linear summation designates the limit of the receptive field. Results show that the receptive field size varies with spatial frequency, from 2' arc at high spatial frequencies to as large as 7 deg at low frequencies. The change in field size was progressive. The smallest aperture width (delta W) for directional discrimination was also measured. Results show delta W to vary from 0.03 cycles at low spatial frequencies to 0.30 cycles at high frequencies.
Transient tritanopia of a second kind.	Using a psychophysical method that allows the tracking of very rapid changes in sensitivity, we demonstrate an anomaly in the time-course of light adaptation for the short-wave mechanism: after the onset of a yellow (581 nm) field of approximately 10(5.3) td the threshold for short-wave targets does not recover monotonically but continues to rise for several seconds before falling to its equilibrium value. The phenomenon is absent when the adapting field has a wavelength of 511 nm and has been adjusted to give a similar equilibrium value for the short-wave threshold.
Shape recognition in amblyopia.	The results of recent investigations of supra-threshold spatial vision in amblyopia have indicated that the amblyopic eye may be more disadvantaged than acuity or contrast detection measurements have suggested. We report here on the sensitivity of the amblyopic eye when performing tasks requiring the recognition of small spatial differences in thin bright line stimuli displayed in a variety of 2-D configurations. Amblyopes were able to perform these tasks, but their amblyopic eye was generally poorer than their normal eye by a multiplicative factor. It is argued that this pattern of results indicates that spatial scrambling rather than blurring is an appropriate model for amblyopia.
Spatial information and uncertainty in anisometropic amblyopia.	Anisometropic amblyopes were found to have a reduced sensitivity for shape discrimination. The introduction of positional jitter in the elements of the display had a profound effect on the performance of the normal eye, but not on that of the amblyopic eye. On the other hand the introduction of gaussian blur affects the performance of both eyes to the same degree. We conclude that raised spatial uncertainty due to metrical scrambling is a suitable model for anisometropic amblyopia.
The role of eye movements in motion detection.	The roles of small eye movements of fixation, and of different kinds of background in motion detection were studied. Minimum detectable displacement for a luminous line oscillating either in a blank field or in the presence of three types of background was measured under two viewing conditions: normal, when eye movements generate normal movements of the image on the retina, and stabilized when these retinal image movements were nearly eliminated. It was demonstrated that eye movements enhance motion detection for a sinusoidally moving target when the target is superimposed on a patterned background; they are detrimental when there is no background. In addition, it was found that the function relating threshold amplitude to frequency of movement is band-pass when the image is stabilized or when the bar moves on a blank field, and is more low-pass when both the background and the test target are subject to the effects of eye movements.
Temporal properties of spatial contrast vision.	The temporal characteristics of spatial contrast vision at and above threshold were assessed psychophysically using sinusoidal gratings and a contrast-matching method. Temporal frequency response curves became flatter as contrast level increased. An impulse response model was fitted to these flicker data, and used to make predictions about temporal integration and two-pulse summation. The predictions fitted the experimental data well, except under conditions where the Broca-Sulzer effect occurred. The latter was not predicted by the biphasic impulse response that otherwise worked well. Temporal filtering became moderately transient and operated over a shorter time-scale as contrast increased, and above threshold temporal properties varied little with spatial frequency. The data and modelling supported the idea that subjects exploited probability summation at threshold while using a peak detection criterion above threshold. Systematic visual field asymmetries in contrast perception are also described. Single- and multiple-channel models of temporal processing are discussed.
Chronometric analysis supports fusion rather than suppression theory of binocular vision.	Suppression theory attributes the singleness of vision during binocular viewing to inconspicuous binocular rivalry. In two experiments, reaction time (RTs) for detection of a small molecular probe were measured while the eyes viewed identical ("fusion") or different (rivalry) stimuli. As expected, distributions of RTs obtained during binocular rivalry showed large positive skew, from trials in which detection was delayed because the probe was superimposed on the suppressed field. Opposite to the prediction of suppression theory, however, the RT distribution during fusion showed far less positive skew, implying that information is available from both eyes during binocular viewing, as held by fusion theory. These findings were confirmed and extended over a large range of probe luminances. During fusion, log mean RTs fell steeply as log probe luminance was increased up to a critical value, then less steeply for further increases. During rivalry, the same steep branch of the RT-luminance function appeared, but shifted as though the probe was about 0.25 log units dimmer. The second branch was also present, but steeper than for fusion, so that RTs for fusion and rivalry were the same at the highest values tested.
Detecting the displacements of spatial beats: a monocular capability.	Sensitivity to the sudden displacement (phase shift) of a single monocularly presented sinusoidal grating is increased when a static grating of similar spatial frequency is presented to the same eye. If the static grating is presented to the other eye instead sensitivity is, at best, halved. This demonstration implies that monocular and binocular visual pathways differ in their sensitivity to spatial variations of contrast. In addition it provides another example in which the monocular visual pathways are more sensitive to spatial displacements than the binocular pathways.
Moving contexts do affect the perceived direction of apparent motion in motion competition displays.	Three experiments were performed to test Ullman's [The Interpretation of Visual Motion. MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass. (1979)] independence hypothesis, used in the minimal mapping theory of motion correspondence. Subjects were required to detect the direction of motion (left vs right) of an element in a motion competition display. In control conditions, threshold interelement distances were obtained for this task in the absence of any moving context. In experimental conditions, context elements that moved either to the left or to the right were added to the display. This resulted in changes in thresholds (relative to the control condition) that indicated that a context moving in one direction increased the probability of seeing the competition element move in the same direction. The magnitude of the context effect was shown to be related to the proximity of the context to the competition display, as well as to the number of elements in the context. These results are in conflict with Ullman's independence hypothesis. An alternative model of the motion correspondence process, which uses information about interdependencies between element movements, is briefly discussed.
Spatial influences on colour opponent contributions to pattern detection.	The contribution of colour opponent mechanisms to detection thresholds is investigated at different spatial frequencies by presenting monochromatic, sinusoidal gratings on a uniform white background. Colour opponent mechanisms, characterised by a triple peaked spectral sensitivity function, determine threshold at low spatial frequencies (below 1 c/deg) and their contribution flattens the Weber function. They display low pass spatial frequency characteristics, becoming relatively more sensitive than non-opponent mechanisms as spatial frequency decreases. Colour opponent contributions are not revealed when the test grating and background are presented dichoptically.
Isolation of opponent-colour mechanisms at increment threshold.	An experimental examination was made of some paradigms designed to isolate the opponent-colour system at increment threshold. The effectiveness of a uniform white conditioning field spatially coincident with a 1.05-deg uniform test field was assessed by measuring intensity thresholds for simple detection and for colour discrimination. Values were obtained both by a method of adjustment and by a two-interval forced-choice procedure. For sufficiently high luminances of the conditioning field (3000 td or greater) little or no difference was found between simple-detection and colour-discrimination thresholds over the critical test-flash spectral range 520-620 nm, implying that the paradigm produced almost complete isolation of the opponent-colour system at increment threshold. A control experiment in which thresholds were obtained for a conditioning field larger than the test field gave less satisfactory isolation; near 580 nm the luminance system was found to be at least 0.3 log unit more sensitive than the opponent-colour system. A comparison was also made of the spatially coincident field paradigm with a paradigm in which a modified test stimulus of low temporal and spatial frequency content was presented on a large conditioning field. Test spectral sensitivity curves for simple detection obtained by a method of adjustment showed little difference in effectiveness in opponent-colour isolation.
Statistical efficiency for the detection of visual noise.	Visual detection thresholds were measured for one-dimensional static noise patterns centered at 2 c/deg on a logarithmic scale, for several widths and spatial frequency bandwidths in the presence and absence of a one-dimensional dynamic visual noise mask. Human performance was compared with the ideal observer's performance for the same task. The ideal's contrast thresholds increase with the fourth root of bandwidth. For thresholds measured in the presence and absence of noise, the fourth-root-law for bandwidth fitted the human observers' data from 1 to 6 octaves for a space constant of 2 degrees and from 2 to 6 octaves for a space constant of 0.25 degree. Detection efficiencies were quite high (30-60%) for patterns of 1- and 6-octave bandwidths. These results can be interpreted either in terms of a channel with an adjustable spatial frequency bandwidth or as very efficient combination of information between spatial frequency channels.
Saturation of the tilt aftereffect.	The tilt aftereffect increases as a logarithmic function of adapting time, reaches saturation after approx 1 hr and decays on a symmetric, logarithmic time-course. This is similar to the time-course of contrast threshold elevation, suggesting that threshold and suprathreshold aftereffects are based on similar type of adaptation processes.
Changes in visual sensitivity with age in rats with heredity retinal degeneration.	Hereditary retinal degeneration in the Royal College of Surgeons (RCS) strain of rat has been shown to produce extensive loss of photoreceptors and a corresponding decline of the electroretinogram, ganglion cell sensitivity, and the sensitivity of the pupillary light reflex. The behaviorally measured thresholds of RCS rats, on the other hand, are reported to be comparable to those for age-matched controls. We report here, that our own behavioral measurements show a clear difference between RCS rats and age-matched controls between four to twelve months of age. The difference in thresholds between RCS and control rats is about three long units at four months of age, and this difference progressively increases until at twelve months, we measure threshold differences of over seven log units.
Direction-specific improvement in motion discrimination.	With training, an observer's ability to discriminate similar directions of motion gradually improves. A series of studies reveals that this improvement, (1) is restricted to the trained direction and other, similar directions, (2) persists for at least several months, (4) shows appreciable, but not complete, transfer between the two eyes, and (5) is largely restricted to the stimulated region of the field. Moreover, the improvement in direction discrimination does not produce a concomitant change in detection thresholds. In all likelihood, most of the improvement in direction discrimination represents a change in visual function, rather than changes in nonsensory processes.
Sensitivity of smooth eye movement to small differences in target velocity.	The precision of smooth pursuit eye movements was described by means of a new dependent measure, the "oculomotor difference threshold" (analogous to the perceptual difference threshold) which represents the smallest difference in target velocity that produces statistically distinguishable differences in eye velocity. Oculomotor difference thresholds for constant velocity motions were largest (greater than 50% of target velocity) during the initial 200 msec of target motion, despite fairly high average gains (0.7-1.4) during the same period. Oculomotor difference thresholds declined over time. By about 600-700 msec after the onset of target motion they reached values as low as the perceptual difference thresholds measured psychophysically with the same target velocities. The similarity of the difference thresholds suggests that equally precise sensory representations of target velocity influenced perception and smooth eye movements. Nonsensory influences on smooth eye movement were also found. Smooth pursuit velocity: (1) depended on the velocity of targets in preceding trials; (2) was decreased during the initial 200 msec of target motion when the duration of motion was reduced from 1 sec to 200 msec, a result which shows that high initial pursuit velocity depends on the expectation that pursuit will continue. These effects of context and expected duration allowed the eye to achieve quickly a velocity close to that of the target it was most likely to encounter. Study of the precision of pursuit may be valuable for characterizing its sensory input, but study of the effects of the context in which a stimulus appears and the effects of expectations about future target motion may be more valuable for understanding how smooth eye movements guarantee retinal image velocities optimal for vision.
Rod-cone interaction in patients with fundus flavimaculatus.	Dark adaptation and the rise of cone flicker threshold (25 Hz) during dark adaptation were measured psychophysically in three patients with fundus flavimaculatus. The dark adaptation curve showed a delayed rod-cone break but a normal final rod threshold in all these patients. However, the rise of cone flicker threshold during dark adaptation was not delayed and also reached a normal final value. This indicates that the delay in rod dark adaptation does not influence the rise of cone flicker threshold during dark adaptation. This finding contrasts with current concepts that the rise of the cone flicker threshold reflects an increasing inhibitory influence of dark adapting rods.
Contrast sensitivity, acuity, and the perception of 'real-world' targets.	A major assumption underlying the use of contrast sensitivity testing is that it predicts whether a patient has difficulty seeing objects encountered in everyday life. However, there has been no large-scale attempt to examine whether this putative relationship actually exists. We have examined this assumption using a clinic based sample of adults aged 20-77 years. Contrast thresholds were measured for both: (1) gratings of 0.5-22.8 cycles/degree; and (2) real-world targets (faces, road signs, objects). Multiple regression techniques indicated that the best predictors of thresholds for real-world targets were age and middle to low spatial frequencies. Models incorporating these variables accounted for 25-40% of the variance. Although acuity significantly correlated with thresholds for real-world targets, the inclusion of acuity as a predictor variable did not improve the model. These data provide direct evidence that spatial contrast sensitivity can effectively predict how well patients see targets typical of everyday life.
Phase coherence in vibration-induced responses of tactile fibres associated with Pacinian corpuscle receptors in the cat.	1. In pentobarbitone-anaesthetized cats, responses were recorded in peripheral nerves or cervical dorsal columns from sensory fibres associated with Pacinian corpuscle (P.c.) receptors in the forelimb footpads. Factors affecting the phase of response to cutaneous vibration in individual P.c. fibres, and the extent of phase coherence in the responses of different P.c. fibres were examined when sinusoidal vibratory stimuli at 100-400 Hz were delivered using a 1 mm diameter probe. 2. Increases in vibration amplitude from the absolute to the 1:1 threshold for the P.c. fibre led to phase advances in the response, often of about 60 deg, in over 85% of fibres tested at 200 and 300 Hz, but further increases had little effect. 3. Variations in stimulus position within the receptive field led to unpredictable changes in the response phase that ranged from minimal change to shifts of 180 deg. As the response phase was unrelated to the distance from the point of peak sensitivity it is likely that at high vibration frequencies (greater than or equal to 100 Hz) the recruited population of P.c. fibres will respond over the whole range of phase angles. 4. The calculated phase of spike initiation in different pairs of P.c. fibres that shared coincident points of best sensitivity on the skin ranged from near synchrony to maximum asynchrony indicating that there is little phase coherence even in the subpopulation of somatotopically related P.c. fibres recruited by high-frequency cutaneous vibration. 5. Paired recordings from P.c. fibres within the cervical dorsal columns revealed a broad range of phase discrepancies in the responses of P.c. fibres to vibration at 200 and 300 Hz. 6. Several hypotheses are considered to explain the known presence of phase-locked responses to high-frequency (greater than or equal to 100 Hz) vibration in the central neurones of dorsal column nuclei.
Integrative processing of vibratory information in cat dorsal column nuclei neurones driven by identified sensory fibres.	1. In decerebrate or anaesthetized cats, the vibration-induced responses of dorsal column nuclei neurones were examined, first, when their input came from simultaneously recorded pairs or other combinations of identified Pacinian corpuscle (P.c.) afferent fibres of the interosseous nerve, and secondly, when different convergent sets of P.c. fibres were engaged by footpad vibration. 2. Suprathreshold actions were observed on individual dorsal column nuclei neurones from two or more identified P.c. fibres. Recruitment of these convergent fibres usually led to summation in the dorsal column nuclei neurone as reflected in higher response levels compared with those evoked by single-fibre inputs. 3. When the input was increased from one to two or more identified P.c. fibres the dorsal column nuclei neurones could retain a single, dominant phase of response to high-frequency (greater than 100 Hz) vibration even though these fibres, in isolation, evoked responses in the target neurone at substantially different latencies. However, on average, phase locking was significantly tighter in response to single-fibre input than to multiple P.c.-fibre input. 4. Dorsal column nuclei neurones were also able to retain phase-locked responses to high-frequency vibration when phase differences between different convergent inputs were systematically introduced to alter the degree of synchrony in the activity arriving over convergent, identified P.c. fibres. 5. When the input to dorsal column nuclei neurones came from the skin it was found that with the recruitment of two converging sets of P.c. fibres the dorsal column nuclei neurones were able to retain phase-locked responses to high-frequency vibration even when phase shifts were introduced between the two sets of P.c. inputs. 6. In conclusion, the observed integrative processing by dorsal column nuclei neurones of vibration-induced inputs arriving over identified, convergent P.c. fibres, or sets of P.c. fibres, is consistent with our hypothesis that the retention of phase-locked responses to vibration at frequencies greater than or equal to 100 Hz may reflect the functional domination of the target neurone by just one or a few of its convergent input fibres.
The effect of spatial frequency on steady-state accommodation.	Accommodation responses to sinusoidally modulated vertical gratings, at a vergence of -5.0 D, were measured over a 10 min period. Three spatial frequencies were employed: 1.67, 5.0 and 15 cycles degree-1. The results show that 1.67 and 5.0 cycles degree-1 elicit good accommodation responses which are temporally stable. All five subjects employed were unable to maintain an accurate accommodation response to a 15 cycles degree-1 grating. Consideration of the changes occurring in the retinal modulation with accommodative error indicates that spatial frequencies around 5.0 cycles degree-1 are the most useful for accommodation.
Effect of defocus on visual field measurement.	Defocus increased visual field contrast thresholds for stimuli equal to or smaller than Goldmann perimeter target III (26 min arc diameter). Beyond 30 degrees-40 degrees from the centre of the visual field, defocus had little effect on contrast thresholds. For accurate clinical perimetry, ametropia and presbyopia should be corrected for small targets (less than or equal to target III) within 30 degrees-40 degrees of fixation with either a spectacle lens (if required power less than +/- 10 D) or a contact lens. Larger stimuli are little affected by defocus. Outside this central 30 degrees-40 degrees field, correction with contact lenses should be provided if fixation is poor due to ametropia. Scotomata for which no cause is evident should be further investigated to find whether they have a refractive basis.
Object-motion detection affected by concurrent self-motion perception: applied aspects for vehicle guidance.	Thresholds and response times for object-motion detection are significantly raised during concurrent real or visually induced self-motion perception. This was demonstrated by standardized laboratory experiments in which subjects had to react to a suprathreshold visual stimulus (1 degree-light spot moving with 5 degrees/s speed) under different stimulus conditions of simultaneously perceived self-motion. Elevated response times (mean elevation factor: 3.27) were also obtained for the detection of changes in inter-vehicle distance (headway) under real road conditions with the simultaneous involvement of self- and object-motion perception compared to a corresponding (object-motion perception) simulation in the laboratory without any self-motion. With regard to vehicle guidance, existing concepts of safe stopping distances, which depend upon adequate detection of a collision course and the corresponding reaction times, have to be recalculated.
Assessment of techniques for measuring contrast sensitivity in children.	Contrast sensitivity was measured in 10 children aged from 3 to 11 years using 4 psychophysical techniques in order to establish the best method of measurement for clinical use. Of the four methods, staircase, ascending continuous, modified Von Bekesy and two-alternate forced-choice, the staircase was selected as the most appropriate clinical technique and monocular contrast sensitivity functions of normal children were measured.
Electrocutaneous sensitivity: effects of skin temperature.	The effect of human skin temperature on electrocutaneous sensitivity was examined using brief capacitive discharges. Stimuli were designed to ensure that sensory effects would be independent of skin resistance and would reflect underlying neural excitability as closely as possible. Skin temperature was manipulated by immersing the forearm in circulating hot or cold air. Detection thresholds on the arm and fingertip were raised by cooling, but were not altered by heating. Temperature-related sensitivity shifts were described by the same multiplicative factors for both threshold and suprathreshold levels. The temperature coefficient (Q10) for cutaneous sensitivity under these conditions was approximately 1.3.
Scotopic sensitivity of the two-month-old human infant.	The 2-month-old human infant is known to be less visually sensitive than the adult by a factor of 50, if sensitivity is measured by the threshold for detecting a test light in the dark. In the present experiment, visual sensitivity of infants and adults did not differ significantly when sensitivity was measured by the ability of an adapting light to elevate test threshold. This result suggests that the infants' insensitivity to test flashes is due to immaturities proximal to the site of light adaptation, while the more distal stages of visual processing, including the adaptation process itself, are relatively mature at that age.
Stimulation of rods can increase cone flicker ERGs in man.	Recent psychophysical studies in man and electrophysiological studies in lower vertebrates show that dark adapted, unstimulated rods inhibit cone mediated flicker. This investigation uses comparable psychophysical and ERG procedures in man to demonstrate rod-cone interaction of this type. With either procedure the rod cone interaction cannot be demonstrated with Ganzfeld stimulation. A single small, red, flickering test field, which is a common psychophysical stimulus for testing rod-cone interaction, elicits an immeasurably small cone ERG. But an array of many such targets, flickering synchronously, is an effective psychophysical stimulus and produces an ERG with larger cone than rod components. With such an array, it can be shown that a steady, rod-stimulating background selectively enhances cone ERG components.
Local and global visual processing.	The fundamental sinusoidal components of a chequerboard pattern are oriented at 45 degrees to the orientation of the chequerboard edges. Removal of one of the fundamental sinusoids (at +45 degrees) creates a useful pattern for studying the mechanisms of visual analysis. Close up, the pattern appears to be oriented +45 degrees, although there is no global energy at that orientation, implying local analysis. At a distance, the perceived diagonality switches to -45 degrees implying access to global information. Measurements show that contrast thresholds for seeing diagonality at +45 degrees follow closely those for detecting the 5th harmonic component of the pattern, over a wide range of spatial frequencies and luminances. Low pass filtering also causes the pattern to be perceived according to its global energy, provided that the cutoff frequency is set to remove the fifth harmonic. We conclude that, at least for this particular stimulus, the visual system performs a local analysis if the fifth harmonic is visible and a global analysis if not.
Induced desensitization.	Viewing of annuli modulated in color in a sawtooth fashion in time results in differential threshold elevations for the detection of color changes of inscribed disks. The elevations are of nearly the same magnitude as those resulting from viewing modulated disks. However, the differential effects on thresholds for complimentary colors are reversed. The differential effects, thus, are correlated with the variation in appearance of the test area.
Background adaptation in human infants.	Human infants' thresholds for detecting 10 degrees diameter 50 and 1000 msec stimuli in the dark adapted condition and in the presence of steady red backgrounds were determined using a preferential looking method. Dark adapted sensitivity and the slope of the linear portion of the increment threshold function increased with age. The slope was 0.5 at 4 weeks, but by 10 weeks it was not different from the adult value (approximately 1.0). At all ages the eigengrau was approximately the same as that of adults (-2.3 log scot. td). These results suggest that visual mechanisms involved in detection of flashes and adaptation to steady background lights mature postnatally.
Contrast and phase processing in amblyopia.	Contrast-coding was investigated in amblyopic, fellow non-amblyopic and control eyes. Using a contrast-matching paradigm similar to Georgeson and Sullivan [J. Physiol. 252, 627-656 (1975)], amblyopic eyes were found to have a high frequency contrast-coding deficit not only at threshold but also at suprathreshold levels up to at least 0.45 contrast. The results do not support the claim of Hess and Bradley [Nature 287, 463-464 (1980)] and Hess, Bradley and Piotrowski [Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B217, 309-330 (1983)] that amblyopes have normal or near-to-normal suprathreshold contrast-coding. By taking this contrast-coding deficit into account we demonstrate that previously reported poor phase discrimination [Lawden, Hess and Campbell, Vision Res. 22, 1005-1016 (1982); Pass and Levi, Invest. Ophthal. Visual Sci. 23, 780-786 (1984)] in amblyopia may, in part, reflect a more basic deficit in contrast-coding across spatial frequencies. The possible involvement of contrast processing mechanisms in phase discrimination is discussed.
Spatial resolution of the Galago.	The spatial vision of two adult galagos (Galago crassicaudatus) was assessed using a two choice discrimination task to determine their contrast sensitivity. Both contrast sensitivity functions exhibited low and high spatial frequency attenuation with the peak sensitivity at 1%. For one animal, the peak occurred at 0.5 c/deg and the extrapolated cutoff frequency was 2.6 c/deg; for the other, the peak was 1 c/deg and the cutoff was 4.3 c/deg. For this animal, grating acuity was also tested and, depending upon definition of threshold, yielded threshold estimates from 4.8 to 6.0 c/deg. The data supports the conclusion that the spatial vision of the galago and the cat is quite similar, a congruence that presumably reflects their adaptation to a nocturnal niche, rather than their divergent phylogenetic origins.
Irradiation: implications for theories of edge localization.	In a vernier alignment task, observers judged the relative positions of two blurred edges placed one above the other. If the two edges were given the same blur width and contrast polarity, their relative positions were perceived veridically. If the two edges were given different blur widths or opposite contrast polarities, reliable errors in perceived position were revealed, as if each edge were shifted into its dark phase by an amount proportional to its blur. The magnitude of shift varied from zero for sharply defined edges, to over 1 min arc for blurred edges. These illusory shifts in position are consistent with the well-known phenomenon of "irradiation". Implications for current models of edge localization are discussed.
Rod influence on cone flicker detection: variation with retinal eccentricity.	Previous studies have shown that cone flicker thresholds are influenced by the adaptation state of the rod system. We have examined how the properties of this rod-cone flicker interaction differ with retinal eccentricity. The threshold for detecting 25 Hz flicker was measured in the dark-adapted eye, against a rod-saturating Ganzfeld background and following a Ganzfeld bleach. The magnitude of the interaction, defined as the difference between light- and dark-adapted flicker thresholds, covaries with changes in rod absolute threshold across the visual field. At a given eccentricity, the magnitude of the interaction is constant for test diameters ranging from 7' to 1.7 degrees, indicating that variations in magnitude with eccentricity do not result from changes in spatial summation properties. The measurement of cone flicker thresholds during bleaching recovery provides evidence that variations in the magnitude of the rod-cone flicker interaction with retinal eccentricity may result from differences in the channel capacity of the pathway carrying the threshold-elevating signal from rods.
Temporal properties of brightness and color induction.	With a matching procedure, we studied the temporal properties of direct brightness (or lightness) and chromatic changes (produced by modulation of the region being matched) and induced brightness and chromatic changes (produced by modulation of the surround of the region being matched). The amount of direct brightness and color change was found to vary only slightly with temporal frequency over the 0.5-8 Hz range studied, whereas induced changes were found to occur only at low temporal frequencies, below about 2.5 Hz. With high temporal-frequency modulation of the surround, the induced patterns appeared to flicker but not to change in brightness or color. Despite the fact that chrominance and luminance temporal contrast sensitivity functions are very different, the temporal induction curves for color and brightness were very similar. However, brightness induction was found to increase approximately linearly with increasing surround modulation up to very high levels, whereas the amount of color induction was much less dependent on the modulation depth of the surround.
A comparison of contrast detection and discrimination.	In order to complement previous studies of contrast detection, we have examined the effects of three stimulus variables (spatial frequency, retinal illuminance, retinal locus) and one visual disorder (amblyopia) on contrast discrimination. Although each factor has a profound effect on the detection of gratings on otherwise unpatterned displays, we find a similar dipper-shaped contrast discrimination function and similar supra-threshold Weber fractions for contrast under all these conditions.
Comparative evaluation of the effectiveness of different shapes of defibrillating pulses]	Experiments in dogs were performed to investigate the defibrillation efficacy of the trapezoidal impulses with ascending and descending slope, the rectangular impulses, and the sinusoidal impulses. The lowest threshold values for current strength, energy and charge were observed when defibrillating the heart by means of rectangular impulses and especially by trapezoidal impulses with ascending slope. Classical strength-duration curves for trapezoidal impulse with ascending slope were recorded. As a result, the suggested duration of the trapezoidal defibrillating impulse to be used is between 4 and 9 ms.
Visual-optical assessment of the threshold values of the distortion of observational objects due to lens defects in the flat window glass of the cockpits of transport vehicles]	It has been shown experimentally that the threshold values of optical distortions of test objects projected by a collimator during binocular observation through the lens defects of vehicle transparencies depend on their dioptric value and sign, distance between the observer's eyes and the transparencies as well as on the angle of those latter. The experimentally derived dependences can be used to standardize optical parameters of vehicle transparencies.
Comparison of membrane electrical activity of cat gastric submucosal arterioles and venules.	Intracellular electrical recordings were made from arterioles and venules of the cat gastric submucosa. Spontaneous rhythmic fluctuations of the membrane potential were recorded in 54% of the venular preparations. Arteriolar cells showed no spontaneous activity. Excitatory junction potentials were recorded in arterioles but not venules after single shocks to the perivascular nerves. The amplitude of the excitatory junction potential was decreased in the presence of alpha-blockers. Repetitive stimulation of the perivascular nerve caused a biphasic electrical response of venular smooth muscle cells. The depolarizing component was decreased by alpha-adrenergic blockade and the hyperpolarizing component by beta-blockade. Venules contracted in response to smaller depolarizations than did arterioles. The voltage threshold for contraction of venular cells was similar to that for arteriolar cells but the venular cells were significantly more depolarized at rest than were the arteriolar cells. The difference in resting potential provides an explanation for the difference in sensitivity to electrical input.
Sensitivity to stationary flashing spots of the brisk classes of ganglion cells in the cat retina.	The responses of brisk-sustained (X) and brisk-transient (Y) cat retinal ganglion cells to small stationary spots flashing on and off in their receptive fields were recorded. Response magnitudes were determined as the amplitude of the fundamental frequency component. At 0.5 and 8 Hz the sensitivity of brisk-sustained cells is independent of the size of their receptive field centre, with the mean sensitivity at 0.5 Hz being 16% lower than at 8 Hz. At 8 Hz the sensitivity of brisk-transient cells is inversely proportional to the centre diameter of their receptive fields. The relationship is quite different from that found in brisk-sustained cells. The ratio of the sensitivity at 0.5 Hz to the sensitivity at 8 Hz can be used as a measure of the 'sustainedness' of a ganglion cell. Using this measure brisk-sustained cells show no change in their sustained nature as a function of eccentricity. In contrast, brisk-transient cells appear to become increasingly transient with eccentricity. Within the area centralis the sensitivities of brisk-transient cells at 0.5 and 8 Hz are very similar to the sensitivities of brisk-sustained cells, and hence they have a very obvious sustained component to a light flashed on and off at low frequency. These brisk-transient units meet all other criteria of their class and so there can be no question as to their classification.
Spatial frequency and the pattern onset-offset response.	Visually evoked responses (VERs) were recorded with vertical sinusoidal gratings presented in the on-off mode at rates of 0.5 and 1 Hz. Stimulus spatial frequency ranged from 0.5 to 16 c/deg and its contrast varied from near-threshold to the value of 0.3. At low spatial frequencies, 0.5 and 1 c/deg, the onset and offset VERs were of similar shape, magnitude and contrast dependence. At spatial frequencies higher than 2 c/deg the onset VERs were usually larger and persisted at lower contrast levels than the offset VERs. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that a gradual transition from the operation of transient channels to the operation of sustained channels takes place on increasing stimulus spatial frequency and that within a wide spatial frequency range (at least from 2 to 8 c/deg) suprathreshold gratings effectively stimulate both types of channels. It is confirmed that both onset and offset VERs are delayed at high spatial frequencies. In addition, a longer delay of the late onset waves was found in comparison with the delay of the early onset waves.
Mechanisms of visual sensitivity: backgrounds and early dark adaptation.	There is substantial physiological and psychophysical evidence for an adaptation mechanism whose effect, under many circumstances, is equivalent to placing a neutral density filter in front of the eye. Furthermore, this mechanism is of sufficient strength to predict the generalized Weber's law for increment thresholds on steady backgrounds. However, it was shown that an additional transient mechanism (with a time-course of around 100 msec) is also needed to account for the increment-threshold results. The effect of this mechanism on increment thresholds during early dark adaptation was parametrically examined. Several models for the transient mechanism were considered. The one best able to account for the results consists of a subtractive inhibitory stage operating prior to a saturating nonlinearity.
Short-wavelength cones contribute to achromatic sensitivity.	Visual thresholds for flicker detection and light detection were measured for white and yellow flickering targets superposed on a white adapting field. The flicker frequency was set so that flicker detection thresholds always exceeded the light detection thresholds. The difference between the two types of thresholds was found to be smaller for yellow targets than for white targets. The most likely explanation of this result is that short-wavelength cones contribute to achromatic sensitivity at low temperal frequencies.
An investigation of the ability of the human visual system to encode spatial phase relationships.	Evidence is presented that the human visual system contains broad-band mechanisms capable of encoding the spatial phase relationship between a fundamental spatial frequency and higher frequencies up to its third harmonic. Compounds of a fundamental and its harmonics above the third become progressively more difficult to discriminate by means of phase information alone. Measurements were also made of the amount of spatial summation found in various detection and phase discrimination tasks using simple or compound gratings composed of a fundamental frequency (F) and its third harmonic (3F). A task requiring the discrimination of the phase relationship between a low contrast (F) and a high contrast (3F) shows less spatial summation than does a task requiring the detection of the (F) component by itself. A simple model is advanced to account for these results qualitatively. The model is based upon the hypothesis that the human visual system analyses the retinal image in patches of a range of sizes and that phase relationships may be discerned only between components that are detected by different elements of the same patch mechanism.
The recognition and representation of edge blur: evidence for spatial primitives in human vision.	Experiments are reported that measure the precision with which observers can (a) discern the degree of blur of an edge, (b) distinguish between two different types of blur, and relate the locations of two such edges by judging their (c) misalignment or (d) separation. Three blurring functions were used, and detailed examination of the retinal stimulus in each case leads to a simple hypothesis for the visual coding of edge blur. This is interpreted in terms of a general and primitive code for the transduction of local and widespread spatial luminance changes, in which stationary points in an approximation to the second derivative are detected and localized. The phenomena of illusory brightness changes in Mach bands and the Chevreul illusion find a ready explanation in this theory.
Behavioral studies on the effect of abnormal early visual experience in monkeys: temporal modulation sensitivity.	Temporal modulation sensitivity functions were investigated by behavioral methods in two monkeys reared with normal visual experience and 12 monkeys reared with abnormal early visual experience. Experimental treatments were initiated when the animals were approximately one month of age. Two monkeys were each treated with one of the following procedures: (1) long-term monocular lid suture, (2) short-term monocular lid suture, (3) surgically induced esotropia, (4) surgically induced exotropia, (5) optical dissociation of binocular vision with ophthalmic prisms, or (6) chronic monocular cycloplegia. The temporal modulation sensitivity functions for uniform field flicker for both eyes of the control subjects and for the untreated eyes of the experimental subjects were similar to functions for humans measured on the same apparatus using the same behavioral procedures. All eight of the monkeys preconditioned by lid suture or surgically induced strabismus showed reduced sensitivity at all temporal frequencies with the difference between the experimental and control eyes being larger for the high than low temporal frequencies. The monkeys reared with optical dissociation of binocular vision or chronic monocular cycloplegia showed equal temporal modulation sensitivities of the two eyes, but failed to show binocular summation. It was concluded from these studies that abnormal early visual experience in monkeys results in deficiencies in the processing of both spatial and temporal information, but the differences between the treated and untreated eyes were usually greater in the spatial domain than the temporal domain.
Two-criterion threshold techniques: evidence for separate spatial and temporal mechanisms?	Contrast thresholds were determined for counterphase flickering and drifting spatial gratings using pattern and flicker/motion criteria. In contrast to previous reports, the two criteria yielded contrast sensitivity functions (CSF) of similar form in the counterphase condition. However, moving gratings yielded CSF's of different form for the two criteria. These differences are probably due to eye movements.
Discrimination of moving gratings at and above detection threshold.	Two experiments examined the discriminability of moving gratings. Experiment 1 measured the difference between detection and discrimination thresholds for gratings of equal spatial frequency drifting in the same direction at different rates. It was found that, as Watson and Robson [Vision Res. 21, 1115-1122 (1981)] had found with counterphase modulated gratings, only very coarse discriminations could be made. The results suggest that just two labelled channels can account for the velocity discrimination of gratings at detection threshold. The second experiment investigated the discriminability of suprathreshold moving gratings. These results also support the idea that rate of movement is mediated by two broadly tuned channels.
Discriminability of suprathreshold compound spatial frequency gratings.	We have investigated the detectability of small contrast changes in compound suprathreshold gratings, containing two sinusoidal components. We examined the relationship between the detectability of changes in each of the components alone and the detectability of changes in the two components together. It was found that for the pairs of spatial frequencies 1 and 9 c/deg there is a square law summation, but for spatial frequency pairs omega and 3 omega there is a greater summation which depends on the relative phases of the gratings' components. The results indicate the existence of broadband phase selective spatial frequency channels, of 2 octaves bandwidth.
Masking by spatially-modulated gratings.	Contrast- or quasi-frequency-modulated masker gratings consisting of three high frequency components (8.8, 11 and 13.2 c/deg) affect the detectability of a 2.2 c/deg signal grating, to an extent that is strongly dependent upon the relative phase between signal and masker. Unmodulated high frequency maskers have no such phase-dependent effects. This paper explores the possibility that the visual system's nonlinear response to luminance is responsible for these phenomena. A specific hypothesis is proposed according to which the effects of the spatially modulated maskers are due entirely to a distortion product at 2.2 c/deg caused by the visual nonlinearity. Although some of the predictions of this hypothesis are borne out by the experimental findings, others are contradicted.
Disparity range for local stereopsis as a function of luminance spatial frequency.	The disparity range for stereo sensitivity was investigated with spatially filtered bars, tuned narrowly over a broad range of spatial frequencies. When measured with narrow (high spatial frequency) bars the disparity range for stereopsis exceeded two orders of magnitude. The range was reduced with broad (low spatial frequency) bars by an elevation of stereothreshold that increased according to a constant 6 deg phase disparity. The upper disparity limit also increased at broad spatial periods but at a lower rate. These size disparity correlations illustrate quantitative stereopsis along a continuum from fine to coarse disparities (+/- 2 deg). A disparity matching task revealed that greater amounts of uncrossed than crossed disparity were required to match suprathreshold disparities. The ratio of standard/matched disparity was lower in both directions for small suprathreshold disparities subtended by broad than by narrow spatial periods. This selective reduction of stereo-efficiency ratio illustrates tuning to coarse disparities subtended by broad (low spatial frequency) stimuli and accounts for the marked reduction of stereoacuity caused by spectacle blur.
Displacement thresholds for coherent apparent motion in random dot-patterns.	Two correlated random-dot patterns (A and B) were generated on a CRT screen and presented in rapid alternation; (B) was shifted horizontally by varying amounts in relation to (A) so that coherent apparent motion was seen. We found that larger shifts were tolerated if (i) the stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) was longer; (ii) if the patterns were optically blurred; and (iii) if there were fewer dots on the screen. Hence apparent motion in random-dot patterns may involve a global pattern matching operation as in stereopsis. Two uncorrelated random-dot patterns were alternated to produce incoherent dynamic "noise". A low spatial frequency sine wave grating was then projected on this "noise" and moved in step with the alternating random-dot patterns. This resulted in "motion-capture"--i.e. all the dots now seemed to move synchronously with the moving grating. The effect could not be obtained with high spatial frequency gratings or with stationary dots. As a tentative solution to the "correspondence problem" it is suggested that low spatial frequencies are matched first and these matches impose constraints on subsequent high frequency matches--thus allowing the system to home in on a unique solution.
Binocular fusion regarded as simple summation of monocular photopic luminances.	Binocular (B) and monocular (BM) increment intensity at threshold was measured on binocularly fused backgrounds of luminance I (30 cd/m2), or 2I (60 cd/m2). Simple summation (S) predicts S = BM(I)/B(2I) = 1. Mean results yield S = 0.99. The mean was similar in the 4 observers, and it did not change with absolute intensity at threshold, which decreased tenfold, as duration of the increment was increased from 3 and 240 msec. Simple summation of monocular luminances occurring during binocular fusion is the most likely explanation of the results.
Pain tolerance and the effect of the treatment of headache by pinpoint stimulation of receptors]	In 53 patients with vasomotor headache treated by one of the methods of analgesic stimulation--pinpoint receptor stimulation (prs) the correlation was assessed between pain tolerance and the effect of prs. Pain tolerance was determined by the ischaemic tourniquet test of Smith. It was found that in patients with low pain tolerance much better therapeutic results were obtained (87.5%) than in patients with high pain tolerance (38.5%). No relationship was demonstrated between pain tolerance and the duration of improvement after prs.l Pain tolerance study may be important in qualification of patients for treatment by analgesic stimulation.
Role of the central gray substance in activating the analgesic systems of the rat bran under stress]	Electrolytic lesions of central gray matter (CGM) were induced in rats. The analgesia produced by stress (foot shock) tested by the hot-plate and tail-flick method was significantly and substantially reduced in the lesioned rats. The baseline pain threshold measured by the hot-plate method was significantly longer in CGM-lesioned rats. The baseline tail-flick latency was unaffected by the lesions. The role of CGM in the regulation of pain sensitivity in rats is discussed.
Temporal characteristics of the recognition of short lines orientation.	The influence of the number of orientations (3 and 8) and of the magnitude of the angle for identification (45 and 22.5 degrees) on the temporal characteristics of orientation recognition with test lines of different lengths (5.5, 10 and 22') was studied. The time for recognition was shorter for longer stimuli. Both the number of stimuli and the magnitude of the angle influenced the percentage of correct responses. The effects of the number of orientations were weaker than expected for a sequential type of recognition. Therefore, it is assumed that the mechanism of orientation recognition is basically of the detector type even when there is influence of the angle, i.e. under conditions of insufficient orientational selectivity. The distribution of the responses was asymmetric. The degree of asymmetry of the frequencies of the errors depended on the length of the test stimuli and on the number of orientations.
Temporal properties of binocular mechanisms in the human visual system.	A dichoptic stimulation paradigm was used to determine the degree to which the two monocular images must match in terms of the temporal properties to yield facilitation in binocular grating detection. Several converging lines of evidence point to the existence of two separate neural mechanisms in binocular detection. One of these mechanisms is selective for temporal frequency and limited in its capacity to integrate information from the two eyes over time. The other mechanism is much less selective for temporal frequency and integrates over a longer period of time. At threshold these two separate mechanisms behave independently and exhibit similar degrees of binocular summation.
Tactile sensitivity as a function of age.	To learn whether tactile sensitivity is decreased in elderly adults, we measured touch thresholds on the pad of the index finger in individuals aged 19 to 88 years. Semmes-Weinstein aesthesiometer filaments were used in a forced-choice procedure to eliminate response biases among subjects. Digit temperature and health data were also collected. Tactile thresholds increased significantly with age. A large proportion of elderly individuals had thresholds that were higher than the average for young adults, although older people varied widely in touch sensitivity. Neither reported illness nor medication use was significantly related in tactile threshold.
Peripheral absolute threshold spectral sensitivity in retinitis pigmentosa.	Dark-adapted spectral sensitivities were measured in the peripheral retinas of 38 patients diagnosed as having typical retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and in 3 normal volunteers. The patients included those having autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive inheritance patterns. Results were analysed by comparisons with the CIE standard scotopic spectral visibility function and with Judd's modification of the photopic spectral visibility function, with consideration of contributions from changes in spectral transmission of preretinal media. The data show 3 general patterns. One group of patients had absolute threshold spectral sensitivities that were fit by Judd's photopic visibility curve. Absolute threshold spectral sensitivities for a second group of patients were fit by a normal scotopic spectral visibility curve. The third group of patients had absolute threshold spectral sensitivities that were fit by a combination of scotopic and photopic spectral visibility curves. The autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive modes of inheritance were represented in each group of patients. These data indicate that RP patients have normal rod and/or cone spectral sensitivities, and support the subclassification of patients described previously by Massof and Finkelstein.
Relationship between vibratory sense threshold and blood lead concentration in ceramic color workers and transfer printing manufacturers]	We measured vibratory sense thresholds (VSTs) at 63Hz and 125Hz on the third fingertip of the right hand and on the third toe of the right foot of 74 male workers. The subjects were workers engaged in manufacturing ceramic color and transfer printing paper, whose blood lead (Pb-B) levels were 2-58 micrograms/dl. They were divided into three groups according to the Pb-B levels, namely, below 9, 10-19, and 20 micrograms/dl or more. For statistical analysis, simple and partial correlations, and Scheff's multiple comparison between the least squares means were used. The VSTs on the fingertip as well as on the toe showed a significant correlation with age. The VSTs at 125Hz on the fingertip were also significantly correlated with alcohol consumption and cigarette smoking. Controlling for age, systolic blood pressure, alcohol consumption and smoking habit, a significant dose-effect relationship was observed between the VSTs at not only 63Hz but at 125Hz on the fingertip, and each of the corresponding Pb-B levels. A similar tendency was also observed at the two frequencies on the toe. The measurement of VSTs was considered to be an effective screening test for sensory nerve disorders caused by lead poisoning.
Kinesthetic reference for human orthograde posture.	Humans with occluded vision were subjected to superslow tilts of the supporting platform, producing the inclination of the subject's body in the sagittal plane, but subthreshold for the most vestibular and proprioceptive phasic reactions. Two types of perturbation were used: sinusoidal tilts (frequency 0.007 Hz, amplitude 1.5 degrees) and ramps (amplitude 1.0 and 0.25 degrees, angular velocity 0.04 degrees/s). During slow sinusoidal tilts of the platform, the ankle angle and body position undergo periodical changes, but these changes have significant phase lead relative to the platform movement: 119 +/- 26 for ankle angle and 55 +/- 19 degrees for body sway. Gains were about 0.9 for both parameters. Large phase shift (tens of seconds) indicated a long delay in compensation of body inclination by ankle joint. The ramp tilt produced an initial body deviation followed by a slow (seconds or tens of seconds) approach of body position to a new steady level after the termination of ramp. Large slow body movements were superimposed with small irregular oscillations (about 10% of the amplitude of large displacements) of higher frequency. These oscillations resembled normal stabilograms on a stationary support. Thus, the usual process of stabilization of body gravity center was continued, though not around a fixed set-point but relative to a slowly changing position. Data obtained support the hypothesis that, besides operative control assigned to compensate deviations from a reference position, the system of postural control includes at least one additional level, which elaborates this reference using information about mutual position of body links, muscular torques and interaction with the support on the basis of criteria taking into account the energy cost of standing and demands for stability and security.
Corneal reinnervation after lamellar refractive corneal surgery]	In a retrospective study corneal sensitivity after refractive autokeratoplasty for correction of myopia was measured. Thirty-eight patients operated on for keratomileusis in situ and 18 patients for keratomileusis myopica were examined with the Draeger esthesiometer between 1 and 23 months after surgery. Three measurements points were on the refractive disc, two others on the untouched cornea. After keratomileusis myopica, the corneal reinnervation is significantly delayed compared to keratomileusis in situ. In the first group sensitivity is normal after 2 years and in the second group after 1 year. Even refraction and visual acuity depend on metabolism and reorganization of the tissue after surgery. Besides retarded cell repopulation and disturbed stromal metabolism--caused by toxic and cryopreservation effects--the dissection depth of the refractive ablation is responsible for these phenomena.
Relative sensitivity of the ocular trigeminal, nasal trigeminal and olfactory systems to airborne chemicals.	We measured thresholds for eye irritation and odor in homologous series of alcohols (ethanol, 1-butanol, 1-hexanol and 1-octanol), ketones (2-propanone, 2-pentanone, 2-heptanone and 2-nonanone), and alkylbenzenes (toluene, ethyl benzene and propyl benzene). Eye irritation thresholds were well above odor thresholds for all series. Both sensory thresholds declined with carbon chain length, a trend that has implicated lipophilicity in the potency of these and related stimuli. Eye irritation thresholds were remarkably close to nasal pungency thresholds obtained previously in persons lacking olfaction (i.e. anosmics). The agreement between the two thresholds implies that, despite differences in the mucus layer at the two sites and in the epithelial tissue itself, there is remarkable similarity at the site of stimulation. As a practical matter, the eyes could serve as the sites to assess potency for induction of nasal pungency, an assessment previously limited to testing anosmics. Presumably, for our brief stimulus presentations (1-3 s), the differences between ocular and nasal mucosae have little relevance to chemical sensitivity. Studies of the ability of homologous chemical series to evoke threshold eye irritation, nasal pungency and odor not only have practical value, but also can help to define the physicochemical properties of the receptor and perireceptor biophases.
The determination of sensory deficits in children with hemiplegic cerebral palsy.	Therapeutic intervention for children with cerebral palsy begins with accurate appraisal of abilities and disabilities. Currently, treatment focuses on the identified motor deficits, with any underlying sensory deficits often being overlooked. Sensory input is an essential component of motor function and motor control. Therefore, the objective of this study was to determine the presence and extent of sensory deficits in school-aged hemiplegic children using a formal clinical sensory battery, as well as somatosensory evoked potentials. A cross-sectional comparative study was performed comparing sensory function in hemiplegic children and healthy controls. Nine hemiplegic children and 41 healthy controls between 4 and 19 years of age were assessed. Hemiplegic children were included if they had a minimum level of receptive language function of 30 to 33 months and expressive language ability of 24 to 27 months, and no severe limitation of joint range of the hand. Significant bilateral sensory deficits (88.8%) were ascertained in hemiplegic children (P < .05), when compared to the performance of the healthy controls. Stereognosis and proprioception were the chief modalities affected bilaterally. The extent of sensory loss did not mirror the severity of motor deficit. Conversely, findings on somatosensory evoked potentials were closely related to motor function. Thus, a clinical sensory evaluation should be an integral part of the assessment of children with cerebral palsy. The likelihood of sensory impairment in one or more modalities on the hemiplegic or nonhemiplegic side is underappreciated and needs to be identified by rehabilitation specialists to maximize the functional potential of these children.
The value of the Neurometer in assessing diabetic neuropathy by measurement of the current perception threshold.	The Neurometer is a relatively new device for assessing neuropathy by measuring current perception threshold (CPT). The study aim was to assess the ability of the Neurometer to distinguish between different types of nerve fibre damage by using different frequencies (2000 Hz, 250 Hz, and 5 Hz) of electric stimulus (high frequencies for large fibres and low frequencies for small fibres) and comparing the results with standard sensory tests of vibration perception threshold (VPT) and thermal perception threshold (TPT). CPT was determined on index finger and great toe of 51 patients with diabetic neuropathy and 28 non-diabetic control subjects, age and sex matched. CPT in neuropathic patients could be distinguished from controls at all three frequencies in both feet and hands (p < 0.05). The best correlation was found between CPT at 2000 Hz and VPT (r = 0.48, p < 0.001) in the feet suggesting a degree of neuroselectivity. Internal correlations between CPT at the three frequencies showed the weakest correlation between CPT at 2000 Hz and 5 Hz (r = 0.27, p < 0.005), suggesting also that possibly different types of fibres were examined. CPT reproducibility was better in control (CV = 6.4-27.7%), than in neuropathic subjects (CV = 28.4-52.3%), although the coefficient of variation was comparable to that of standard tests of sensory function, VPT and TPT. The Neurometer is a simple instrument to use in clinical practice. It has a degree of neuroselectivity but like all subjective sensory tests has a large variability.
Elevated vibration perception threshold in young patients with type 1 diabetes in comparison to non-diabetic children and adolescents.	The vibration perception threshold (VPT) was investigated by biothesiometry in 61 children (28 boys) with Type 1 diabetes, mean age 15.5 (range 10-21) years, duration of diabetes 6.9 (range 1-19) years, and in 76 healthy children (39 males), mean age 13.8 (range 10-19) years. The measurements were performed in triplicate on the right second finger and on the right first toe. The vibration perception threshold was significantly increased (p < 0.0001) in the young diabetic patients (mean +/- SD, finger 4.1 +/- 1.1 V, toe: 5.7 +/- 1.3 V) compared to healthy children (finger 3.4 +/- 0.9 V, toe: 3.6 +/- 1.3 V). Twenty percent of adolescents with Type 1 diabetes had a VPT above the 95th percentiles (finger: 5 V, toe 6.5 V) for normal control children. In healthy controls a significant correlation (r = 0.27, p < 0.01) was found for VPT in finger versus toe. This relationship was not significant in the diabetic group and may be due to reduced sensitivity of the fingertips caused by frequent blood glucose testing. Age, Tanner stage and height were significantly correlated to VPT (toe) in both diabetic and normal boys, while duration of diabetes, HbA1c, arterial blood-pressure and body mass index were not significantly associated with VPT in any of the groups. The results indicate that changes in VPT appears early in childhood and emphasize a need for further studies of subclinical neuropathy in young patients with Type 1 diabetes.
The human suprathreshold photopic oscillatory potentials: method of analysis and clinical application.	The oscillatory potentials (OPs) of the electroretinogram (ERG) identify the high frequency wavelets which are seen riding on the top of the ascending limb of the b-wave. Despite the refinement in ERG recording techniques, which now allow for a more selective amplification of the OPs, their clinical utility still remains somewhat limited. Furthermore, while it has long been recognized that the different OPs which builds a given response are generated by distinct retinal events, amplitudes of clinically recorded oscillatory potentials are still reported using the artificial variable 'sum of OPs (SOPs)' which represent the sum amplitude of all the OPs identified in a given response; a method which is prone to compromise the diagnostic possibilities of the oscillatory potential response. The purpose of this report is to present a method of analysis of the OP response which is based on the relative amplitude of each OP. For the sake of clarity this report will focus on the analysis of the suprathreshold photopic OP response evoked the flash for 8.9 cd-m-2-sec in energy delivered against a rod desensitizing background of 30 cd-m-2 in luminance. The amplitude of each of the three major OPs (ie: OP2, OP3 and OP4) that normally compose this response was reported in relative units (ie: OP chi/SOPs) a method shown to minimize intersubject variability and at the same time allow for each OP to be evaluated individually. With the above method I have reviewed 289 clinical OP responses collected during a 7 year interval and identified more than 10 different categories of responses of which 6 were shown to demonstrate specific anomalies for one or two OPs. The selectivity and reproducibility of my observation were confirmed on follow-up testings as well as in pedigree studies. Use of this method of OP analysis should significantly increase the clinical utility of the oscillatory potentials and also facilitate comparisons between clinical laboratories.
Projections from the pelvic nerve to the periphery of the cat's thalamic ventral posterolateral nucleus and adjacent regions of the posterior complex.	1. Mapping experiments were performed in the region of the ventral posterolateral nucleus of the lateral thalamus in pentobarbitone-anesthetized cats with the aim to locate foci with input from the electrically stimulated pelvic nerve. The locations of the recording sites were verified in Nissl-stained histological sections with reference to electrolytic lesions. 2. Of the 68 visceroceptive thalamic neurons identified, 63% were located in the periphery of the ventral posterolateral nucleus (VPLp) and 34% in the dorsal, lateral, and medial aspects of the posterior complex (POd, POl, and POm, respectively) directly adjacent to VPLp. The region surrounding the middle and caudal part of the ventral posterolateral nucleus (VPL) received a much denser input from the pelvic nerve than that around the rostral pole of VPL. 3. The response latencies of the thalamic neurons to pelvic nerve stimulation ranged from 10 to 65 ms (median: 16 ms; interquartile distance: 12-20 ms) indicating a transmission of information from the pelvic space via small and large diameter myelinated fibers. 4. Seventy-nine percent of the visceroceptive neurons tested (n = 58), in addition, had low threshold somatic receptive fields that were located in 67% of the cases in regions of the lower back, the thigh, the tail and/or the heel and in 26% of the cases on the hindfoot. None of the 40 visceroceptive neurons tested with noxious mechanical stimulation of the skin responded to this kind of stimulus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Mechanosensitive properties of pelvic nerve afferent fibers innervating the urinary bladder of the rat.	1. Single-unit activity was recorded from S1 dorsal root afferent fibers in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats. In 25 experiments, 245 afferent fibers were identified by electrical stimulation of the pelvic nerve. Fifty-two percent were C fibers (conduction velocity: 1.70 +/- 0.04 m/s; mean +/- SE) and 48% were A delta-fibers (conduction velocity: 11.07 +/- 0.95 m/s). 2. Of 245 pelvic nerve afferent fibers, 92 (38%) responded to noxious urinary bladder distension (UBD; 80 mmHg); 57 of these fibers were C fibers and 35 were A delta-fibers. Forty-four fibers responded to colorectal distension (CRD; 80 mmHg); 32 were C fibers and 12 were A delta-fibers. A total of 39 fibers were identified in the anal mucosa; 3 were C fibers and 36 were A delta-fibers. Seventy fibers (28%) in these experiments were unresponsive to either UBD or CRD or to probing of the anal mucosa; 32 were unmyelinated C fibers and 38 were A delta-fibers. 3. Reproducibility of responses to repeated UBD (80 mmHg, 20 s; 8 trials at 4-min intervals) was tested in 10 fibers. In nine fibers, responses to repeated distension did not change; one fiber exhibited a progressive decrease in response magnitude after the third trial. 4. Of the 92 afferent fibers that responded to UBD, 45 were further characterized for responses to graded intensities of UBD. Forty fibers had some resting activity (1.7 +/- 0.3 impulses/s) and five fibers exhibited no ongoing activity. The response to UBD adapted slowly during the 20-s period of phasic UBD or during slow isotonic filling of the bladder. 5. The stimulus-response function (SRF) of fibers (n = 45) to graded UBD was monotonic < or = 80 mmHg. Thresholds for responses were determined after extrapolation of the least-squares linear regression line to the ordinate, and varied between 0 and 45 mmHg. The frequency distribution profile of thresholds revealed two populations of pelvic nerve afferent fibers in the urinary bladder: a larger group (n = 36) of low-threshold (LT) fibers (5.7 +/- 1.0 mmHg) and a smaller group (n = 9) of high-threshold (HT) fibers (34 +/- 2.5 mmHg). 6. Responses of four LT fibers to graded UBD were tested before and 30 min after instillation of 0.5 ml of 0.5% acetic acid (pH 3) into the bladder. The mean threshold for response of these fibers before instillation of acetic acid (9.4 +/- 3.1 mmHg) more than doubled (to 22.3 +/- 6.7 mmHg) after instillation of acetic acid.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Gaze strategies during linear motion in head-free humans.	1. Eye-head coordination strategies during horizontal displacements along the y (interaural) axis were investigated in human subjects seated on a sled (linear accelerator device) and tested in head-free conditions. They were instructed to stabilize their gaze, while in motion, on an earth-fixed memorized target and then, after cart immobilization, to look again at the real target. The last part of the test required a corrective saccade, which enabled us to evaluate the error of the subject's displacement estimation. Eye and head compensatory reflexes were tested within the 0.001-0.2 g acceleration range with a sinusoidal motion amplitude of 0.8 m peak to peak. 2. Fixation stabilization on a memorized target was achieved by different eye-head coordination strategies. According to the relative contribution of eye and head motion, a continuum among individual strategies was observed, covering a range of head contributions varying from 0 to almost 100%. All these strategies were well adapted because they contributed to the counteraction of the displacement and led to an optimal gaze accuracy. 3. The use of various gaze strategies during linear motion to achieve the same movement differed according to the subject, but also depended upon motion kinematics. As a rule, head contribution increased as the magnitude of linear acceleration was enhanced. 4. Different eye-head coordination strategies implicated either a linear vestibulo-ocular reflex (LVOR) or ocular responses composed of a combination of antagonistic angular and linear vestibulo-ocular reflexes (AVOR-LVOR). The slow phase direction of these two oculomotor responses for fixation stabilization on the target were compensatory and anticompensatory, respectively. 5. One of the major points of this study was the contribution of the saccadic system to gaze strategies, even in our experimental conditions where the head was free to move. We concluded that vestibular-saccadic cooperation appears to be a common feature in the elaboration of adequate fixation stabilization in daily life situations. 6. The functional coupling of these various subsystems involved in fixation stabilization depended on the range of motion: while the acceleration increased, the saccadic eye movements were replaced by vestibulo-ocular responses whose slow phase direction was opposite that of head motion and, therefore, directed away from the target. 7. Fast components of the nystagmic pattern of eye movements were able to improve gaze position accuracy, bringing the eyes toward the memorized target.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Exercise does not increase visual field sensitivity.	The effect of exercise on visual field sensitivity was investigated for both static and kinetic visual fields using the Humphrey Field Analyser (HFA). The visual fields of 20 young visually normal subjects were measured before and after a 10-min controlled period of exercise. Ten of these 20 subjects then formed a control group, where the same experimental regime was followed without the exercise period. A significant increase in mean static sensitivity in the superior field was found as a result of exercise; however, this is likely to be a learning effect as a similar increase was also found for the control condition. Exercise had no other effect on either the kinetic or static visual fields.
Heat-induced pain diminishes vibrotactile perception: a touch gate.	The gate control theory of pain (Melzack and Wall, 1965) suggests that tactile stimuli can decrease the perception of pain. We have found the reverse effect: Heat at levels that induce pain can substantially suppress tactile sensitivity, independently of shifts in attention or arousal. Ten human observers were stimulated by a tonic, pain-producing heat stimulus and vibrotactile stimuli (1, 10, and 100 Hz) coincidentally presented to the right thenar eminence. Vibrotactile thresholds were assessed with the skin at a normative temperature of 31 degrees C and at higher temperatures producing pain. Increases in vibrotactile thresholds (mean change = 7.3 dB) occurred at skin temperatures just below and above those that induced pain. Furthermore, absolute-magnitude estimates of suprathreshold vibrotactile stimuli determined during the same experiments showed decreased sensitivity and psychophysical recruitment. The changes are not attributable to attentional or arousal shifts, since they were not associated with changes in auditory thresholds. Furthermore, the changes occurred just below the subjects' pain thresholds (where nociceptors are presumably activated). This over-twofold diminution of vibrotactile sensitivity suggests that heat stimuli capable of inducing pain can significantly diminish taction, perhaps through a "touch gate" in a manner similar to the gate control theory proposed for pain.
Hairy skin: psychophysical channels and their physiological substrates.	Experiments were conducted in which threshold-frequency characteristics were measured on the hairy skin of the forearm of human observers. Thresholds were measured with two stimulus probe areas (2.9 and 0.008 cm2) at three skin-surface temperatures (15 degrees, 30 degrees, and 40 degrees C). The results suggest that whereas glabrous skin uses four distinct channels of information, only three channels may be involved in mediating the sense of touch for hairy skin. The three channels are defined as Ph, (Pacinian, hairy skin), NPh low (non-Pacinian, hairy skin, low frequencies) and NPh mid (non-Pacinian, hairy skin, middle frequencies). In addition, it is proposed that the neural substrates for the three psychophysically characterized channels are, respectively, the Pacinian corpuscle (PC) nerve fibers, the slowly adapting type II (SAII) fibers, and the rapidly adapting (RA) fibers.
Normal human contrast sensitivity for static and dynamic sinusoidal gratings. A comparison between two automated threshold determination designs.	Contrast thresholds for static and dynamic (phase-shifted at 2 rps) sinusoidal gratings were established for seven spatial frequencies 0.5-32 c/deg. An HP-85 desktop computer ran an automated stimulus descending algorithm. Subjects reported stimulus presence by pressing a switch. Two stimulus presentation designs were used. In method 1, the screen was blanked to mean luminance between presentations, while in method 2 the pattern remained unchanged until the next contrast level was presented. Mean thresholds were calculated from three successive threshold passages using 2 dB steps. Fifty-nine volunteers from a military unit, mean age 20 years, participated in the study. Method 1 always gave lower thresholds with less variability. For static gratings, this was statistically significant at 0.5 and 16 c/deg (p < 0.01 and 0.05, respectively) and for dynamic gratings at all spatial frequencies except 32 c/deg (p < 0.1 for 0.5 and 16 c/deg, p < 0.001 for 1-8 c/deg). An accuracy index was calculated from two determinations at 4 c/deg. Method 1 gave higher indices for both static and dynamic patterns, although not statistically significant. However, method 1 was significantly more time consuming. Method 1 was considered the more reliable of the two contrast threshold determining designs.
High sensitivity of the turtle olfactory system to nonvolatile substances: comparison of response properties with those in gustatory systems.	The olfactory responses of the aquatic turtles, Geocylemys reevesii whose nostrils are closed underwater to nonvolatile substances were measured by recording the olfactory bulbar responses. Various salts, acids and bitter substances elicited large responses, while sugars and amino acids did not elicit the responses. The thresholds for the salts were much lower than those of corresponding salts in the rat gustatory system. The responses to the salts were partially suppressed by amiloride. Various acids induced large responses and the magnitudes greatly depended on the anion species. The thresholds for the bitter substances were much lower than those of corresponding substances in the taste systems. Similar to the responses in taste systems, both electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions contribute to the binding of the substances to the receptor membranes. Similar to the taste systems, the response to quinine hydrochloride showed a sharp temperature dependence having a peak around 25 degrees C, while the responses to odorants did not show such peak. The present results suggest that the olfactory system has similar abilities to respond to salts, acids and bitter substances to those in gustatory systems and that the high sensitivity of the olfactory system to chemical stimuli is not only attributable to the second messenger amplification system, but also to the basic property of the receptor membrane independent of the amplification system.
Altered pain and temperature perception following cingulotomy and capsulotomy in a patient with schizoaffective disorder.	Recent studies have renewed interest in the role of limbic structures, such as the cingulate cortex, in nociception. To investigate the involvement of the limbic system in pain and temperature perception further, we have quantified ratings of innocuous and noxious thermal stimuli in a patient with schizoaffective disorder before and after 2 surgical procedures. Psychophysical tests were conducted at a control session prior to surgery. Postoperative test sessions were conducted up to 10 weeks after bilateral cingulotomy and for 3 months after a subsequent bilateral anterior internal capsulotomy. A contact thermal stimulator delivered ascending (39-50 degrees C) and descending (22-2 degrees C) series of stimuli to the patient's volar forearm. The patient was trained to rate the innocuous warmth and cold and the pain associated with each stimulus. A cold pressor test was used to obtain a measure of cold pain tolerance. Compared to pre-operative levels, cingulotomy/capsulotomy resulted in moderately diminished warmth perception and an elevated heat pain threshold and increased ratings to suprathreshold noxious heat stimuli (hyperpathia). Prior to surgery, the patient perceived all cold stimuli as cold but not painful. However, after cingulotomy and capsulotomy, cold stimuli were rated significantly colder and stimuli less than or equal to 12 degrees C evoked pain. Compared to normal control subjects, the patient's ratings of innocuous and noxious cold stimuli were reduced pre-operatively but elevated postoperatively and cold pain tolerance was elevated pre-operatively but reduced postoperatively. These altered ratings of noxious heat and cold stimuli were reflected on both a pain intensity and pain affect (unpleasantness) scale. In summary, these data suggest that cingulotomy and capsulotomy disinhibited the patient's noxious heat and cold appreciation. These findings provide support for a role of the cingulate cortex and frontal cortical regions in the perception of innocuous and noxious thermal stimuli and suggest that under normal conditions, these areas may act to suppress the subjective intensity of noxious heat and cold.
Functional aspects of central electrical coupling in mechanoreceptor afferents of crayfish.	Cuticular stress detector afferents (CSD1 and CSD2) in the walking legs of crayfish have been studied in an in vitro preparation allowing intracellular recordings of single neurones during mechanical stimulation of the organs. Lucifer yellow staining of single fibres showed them to be dye-coupled through junctions presumably located near their point of entry into the ganglion. In intracellular recordings from identified sensory fibres with 30-80-mV impulses, coupled afferent spikes were seen as depolarizing potentials of short duration but smaller amplitude. Coupling sometimes involved fibres with quite different response characteristics to mechanical stimuli. Coupled spikes summated during strong mechanical stimuli. In silent CSD fibres, antidromic spikes could occur which were triggered by the depolarization due to coupling. Antidromic spikes were more frequent during strong stimuli and were in some cases shown to be triggered in a cooperative way when two afferent spikes synchronously reached the ganglion. Our results suggest that central coupling of primary afferents may be a widespread phenomenon in Crustacea and that it provides a threshold mechanism for selective amplification of strong stimuli.
Contrast detection and discrimination in young and older adults.	To determine if age differences in contrast detection thresholds extend to suprathreshold contrast discrimination.
Assessing retinal/neural function in patients with cataract using oscillatory displacement thresholds.	Oscillatory displacement threshold (ODT) measurement has been proposed as a useful means of assessing retinal/neural function behind cataract. In order to examine the qualitative predictive ability of this technique, the influence of age, simulated cataract, and various posterior segment disorders upon ODT's were investigated. In a separate investigation, thresholds were measured in 30 cataract patients on the eve of surgery, and again 6 to 8 weeks postoperatively. ODT's were found to increase with age (p < 0.001) and were highly resistant to the effects of image degradation as produced by simulated cataract. In addition, thresholds were sensitive to the presence of retinal/neural disorders (p << 0.001). Although not completely independent of the presence of cataract, higher ODT's were measured in cataract patients with coexistent retinal/neural dysfunction than was the case for patients with normal posterior segments (p < 0.001). Preoperative ODT measurement may offer a means of distinguishing between the optical and retinal/neural components of visual impairment in patients with cataract.
Critical flicker frequency of mentally retarded and normal persons.	Critical flicker frequency (CFF) of 40 men, 20 mentally retarded whose mean age was 22.0 yr. and 20 normal whose mean age was 21.5 yr., was measured under binocular viewing using the Lafayette Visual Perception Control with a display unit. Subjects had been previously tested for visual acuity and color blindness. Analysis showed a significant difference in CFF between mentally retarded persons and normal individuals, the former having lower CFF than the latter. This finding suggests lower perceptual sensitivity of the mentally retarded persons. Further research with provision for EEG recordings is suggested.
Anosmia in Alzheimer disease.	Ten patients with probable Alzheimer Dementia underwent a brief evaluation of cranial nerve I function, with 90% showing varying degrees of anosmia. The potential usefulness of olfactory assessment in the evaluation of Alzheimer Disease is discussed.
Prognostic value of initial electroretinogram in central retinal vein obstruction.	We retrospectively studied the correlation between the initial electroretinogram (ERG) recordings and the final visual acuities (VA) of 47 patients with central retinal vein obstruction (CRVO) after follow-up of more than 1 year. The a- and b-wave amplitudes and the b/a ratio with white flash were significantly larger in patients with good vision (VA > 20/200) than in those with poor vision (VA < or = 20/200). The b/a ratio and b-wave amplitude with white flash showed sensitivity and specificity of more than 78% for visual prognosis. The latest VA was < or = 20/200 in all 20 patients with a subnormal b-wave amplitude and in all 15 with b/a ratio < 1.05. These results suggest that the ERG recorded soon after (CRVO) onset correlates strongly with visual prognosis.
Discrimination of direction of motion in human vision.	1. Differences as low as 0.5 degrees can be discriminated in the direction of motion of a single spot of light moving with optimum speed and seen in the fovea for < 250 ms. There is no improvement for a cloud of random dots or a short line. 2. For high velocities the thresholds approach those for the discrimination of orientation of a single line, when the length of the line is equal to the excursion of the dot and when the line is shown for the same duration. 3. The sensitivity for orientation of line of motion of a moving spot also shares two other attributes with that for the orientation of a single solid line of similar temporal and spatial extents: discrimination is seriously impaired when flanked by related close-by stimuli, and sensitivity is subject to simultaneous orientation contrast. 4. It is suggested that the orientation both of features and of lines of motion is processed by the same mechanism.
The cutaneous withdrawal reflex in human neonates: sensitization, receptive fields, and the effects of contralateral stimulation.	The threshold of a cutaneous withdrawal reflex, elicited by calibrated von Frey hairs applied to the foot and leg, has been used to study the development of spinal sensory processing in a group of 50 preterm and full-term infants ranging from 27.5 to 42.5 weeks postconceptional age (PCA). Data sets (108) were collected on initial threshold, the effects of repeated innocuous stimuli, the receptive field of the withdrawal reflex, and the effect of a contralateral stimulus. As reported previously (Fitzgerald et al. 1988, 1989), there was a correlation between PCA and initial threshold. The mean threshold at 29 weeks was 0.237 g (S.E.M. 0.042), whereas the mean threshold at 41 weeks was 0.980 g (S.E.M. 0.134). Repeated stimulation with von Frey hairs led to a significant lowering of threshold or "sensitization" of the reflex in infants of up to 35 weeks PCA. Thereafter, the decrease in threshold was not significant, and habituation was observed. From 27.5 weeks PCA, it was possible to elicit the withdrawal reflex from the whole limb as far up as the top of the thigh and buttock. Below 30 weeks PCA, the thresholds within this receptive field were uniform, but after 30 weeks a gradient of thresholds was observed increasing progressively from the sole of the foot towards the knee. The application of a maintained stimulus to the contralateral limb significantly inhibited withdrawal reflex responses to ipsilateral von Frey hair stimulation, across all age bands. These results illustrate postnatal changes in sensory processing within the human spinal cord.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The spatial tuning of chromatic mechanisms identified by simultaneous masking.	We have investigated the spatial transfer characteristics of the mechanisms sensitive to color in the human visual system using a method of simultaneous spatial masking with isoluminant chromatic stimuli. The test stimuli were Gaussian enveloped red-green gratings of three spatial frequencies in the lowpass region of the color domain (0.25, 0.5 and 1 c/deg). The masking stimuli were red-green gratings at the orientation and phase of the test, presented at the same spatial frequency, and at +/- 1, and +/- 2 octaves from its spatial frequency. We obtained test contrast threshold as a function of mask contrast for a wide range of mask contrasts (TvC functions). Tuning functions were derived from linear fits of the masking data, by taking the mask contrast that doubled the minimum test threshold at each spatial frequency. Chromatic tuning functions show bandpass characteristics for all test spatial frequencies examined with an average full bandwidth at half-height of 2.6 octaves, which is similar to the luminance bandwidths obtained under comparable conditions. Thus, our results suggest that the color contrast sensitivity function is the upper envelope of a range of bandpass mechanisms whose peaks extend to very low spatial frequencies.
Spatio-temporal interpolation in depth.	Spatio-temporal interpolation creates the impression of motion from a rapid sequence of stationary images by reconstructing the motion path in between the stations actually presented. Thresholds below the diameter of foveal photoreceptors have been obtained with two-dimensional spatio-temporal interpolation. We found that also three-dimensional interpolation, i.e. interpolation in depth, where information from motion detectors tuned to opposite directions in both eyes has to be combined, yields thresholds in the hyperacuity range. The results of parametric experiments favour the interpretation that interpolation occurs at a monocular stage of visual processing, rather than on a stereoscopic stage.
The effect of stimulus contrast and interocular correlation on disparity vergence.	In previous reports, we developed a metric for describing the signal strength of a dynamic random-dot stereogram (DRDS) stimulus at binocular (cyclopean) levels of the human visual system, which takes both contrast and interocular correlation into account. In this study we tested the generality of that metric in relation to the control of horizontal vergence eye movements. Signal strength was assessed by measuring the extent to which a DRDS stimulus could elicit involuntary vergence responses from a subject who was attempting to fixate steadily. Results for both step and sinusoidal disparity modulation paradigms showed that vergence velocity increased when either interocular correlation (IOC) or contrast was increased. Furthermore, IOC and contrast were found to contribute to signal strength for vergence in the same proportion as was found psychophysically. In general, the results indicate that the signals that drive this passive form of vergence are derived according to the same binocular combination rules as the signals that give rise to the perception of surfaces in DRDS stimuli.
Selectivity of cyclopean masking for the spatial frequency of binocular disparity modulation.	Previous studies have presented evidence for the existence of channels tuned to the spatial frequency (SF) of binocular disparity modulation. Bandwidths reported for masking curves were extremely narrow, possibly because of off-frequency viewing, whereby observers can best detect a signal with a channel tuned to an SF on the opposite side of the signal from the masker's SF, rather than with a channel tuned directly to the signal's SF. Herein are reported the results of four detection experiments. Experiment 1 measures unmasked threshold for detection of a cyclopean grating. Experiments 2-4 are masking experiments. Experiment 2 demonstrates that threshold for detection of a cyclopean grating is proportional to the intensity of masking noise, which is consistent with the operation of linear channels. Experiments 3 and 4 demonstrate that masking curves are narrower when obtained with narrowband-noise maskers than when obtained with notched-noise maskers, which render the off-frequency viewing ineffective. Implications for understanding the processing of cyclopean images are discussed.
Scotopic center surround organization in 10-week-old infants.	The large critical areas for complete spatial summation in infants may be due to immaturities of receptive field organization in both dark and light adapted scotopic conditions. Scotopic lateral excitatory/inhibitory interactions have been previously studied in adults using Westheimer's [(1965) Journal of Physiology, London, 181, 881-894] paradigm. We modified this paradigm to investigate scotopic receptive field organization in infants. Detection thresholds for probe flashes of constant diameter and duration presented on steady backgrounds of various diameters were determined for 10-week-old infants and adults. Infants' thresholds increased up to background diameters of 3 degrees to 3.5 degrees and then decreased at greater background diameters. Adults' thresholds increased for backgrounds up to about 0.75 degrees diameter and then decreased at greater background diameters. These results suggest that the excitatory, central receptive field size is larger in infants than adults, and that a balanced center-surround mechanism is operative.
The coding of spatial position by the human visual system: effects of spatial scale and retinal eccentricity.	In this study we investigate the nature of the computations that underlie the encoding of spatial position by the human visual system. Specifically, we explore the relationship between alignment accuracy and retinal eccentricity for stimuli where local luminance, local contrast, and orientation cues do not underlie performance. Spatial scale is especially important for such a comparison because of the well documented spatial inhomogeneity of the human visual field. The results suggest that the relationship between spatial localization and eccentricity is invariant with spatial scale if accuracy and eccentricity are expressed in terms of the stimulus envelope size. We show that the photoreceptor disarray does not determine the limit to performance for this task, the limit is post-receptoral and can be modelled in terms of a positional uncertainty within the early filters located before the response envelope has been extracted. This uncertainty varies with eccentricity in a similar way within each spatial array.
A two-process analysis of pattern masking.	By comparing the masking effects of cosine gratings and uniform fields on spatially narrow-band test patterns, we obtain evidence that pattern masking is mediated by two stages of visual processing: an early process of point-wise luminance adaptation and a late process of spatial-frequency and orientation-selective filtering. The early (presumably receptoral) component of masking is not affected by the polarity (incremental or decremental) or spatial frequency of test patterns, and may either increase or decrease pattern sensitivity based on local light level. The late masking process is orientation and spatial-frequency dependent, implying a cortical origin. For this cortical process, we find competitive interaction between parallel ON and OFF visual mechanisms: on a bright bar of a mask, threshold shift is greater for decremental than incremental tests, and the opposite is true on a dark bar of the mask. We suggest that ON-OFF interactions in pattern masking serve to normalize the gain of ON and OFF mechanisms simultaneously in order to preserve the relative contrast in the image.
On the role of X and simple cells in human contrast processing.	We investigated the potential role of retinal X and cortical simple cells in determining human psychophysical detection performance under contrast masking conditions. Since both X and simple cells exhibit a null phase, the phase of a background mask should affect the visibility of a test grating processed by such cells. Sinusoidal test gratings of either 1 or 7 c/deg were presented as a sustained or transient increment against a background mask of the same size and spatial frequency at either 0 or 90 deg phase. For background contrasts from 0.5% up to 40%, psychophysical contrast sensitivity was phase-independent for all conditions. Therefore, either (1) contrast threshold is mediated by cells with non-linear spatial summation properties, such as Y or complex cells, or (2) the masking effect of the background occurs after a phase-insensitive combination or pooling of simple cell responses in the cortex.
Motion displacement thresholds for compound stimuli predicted by the displacement of centroids.	Minimum displacement thresholds were measured using a compound motion stimulus, in which a single bar split into oppositely moving components, having different luminances and absolute displacements. The results fit a simple model in which observers detect the movement of the centroid of the combined luminance pattern of the two components. This was so even when the two components were separated by more than the static spatial resolution limit of 30 sec arc.
Separable red-green and luminance detectors for small flashes.	Detection contours were measured in L and M cone contrast coordinates for foveal flashes of 200 msec duration and 2.3, 5, 10 and 15 min arc diameter on a bright yellow field. The test flash consisted of simultaneous incremental and decremental red and green lights in various amplitude ratios. At all sizes, the most sensitive detection mechanism was not a luminance mechanism, but rather a red-green mechanism that responds to the linear difference of equally weighted L and M cone contrasts, and signals red or green sensations at the detection threshold. Both temporal and spatial integration were greater for red-green detection than luminance detection. A coincident, subthreshold, yellow flash (a luminance pedestal) did not affect the threshold of the red-green mechanism. Such a pedestal is a sum of equal L and M cone contrast--it represents a vector parallel to the red-green detection contour and thus is expected not to stimulate directly the red-green mechanism. When suprathreshold, the coincident pedestal facilitated chromatic detection by approximately 2x at all tested sizes; intense pedestals did not mask chromatic detection. This insensitivity to intense luminance pedestals further indicates that the red-green mechanism has fixed spectral tuning with balanced opponent L and M contrast inputs. This view of fixed spectral weights contrasts with the "variable tuning hypothesis", which postulates that the weights change with spatial-temporal variations in the test stimulus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Changes in the perceived direction of drifting plaids, induced by asymmetrical changes in the spatio-temporal structure of the underlying components.	When a plaid pattern with symmetrical velocity components (Type I) is changed to a plaid pattern with asymmetrical velocity components (Type IA), the overall direction of drift appears to undergo a rotation without any other change to the spatial parameters of the components. This change in the perceived drift direction can be induced by altering either the temporal frequency of the components or by altering their spatial frequency. In separate experiments, we have estimated the magnitude of the temporal and spatial frequency thresholds that are necessary to create a liminal change in direction of this type. The results from both temporal and spatial frequency experiments are closely similar. We find that liminal rotations can be induced by changes in the spatio-temporal structure of the sine-wave grating components that are undetectable when these components are presented in isolation. Further, we find that the "velocity threshold for direction" is not a constant factor, but critically depends on the relative orientation of the two elements that form the plaid. Forced-choice experiments were also conducted to estimate the extent of the apparent rotation of the plaid pattern for differing levels of asymmetry in the spatial frequency and temporal frequency of the components. The magnitude of the pattern rotation is predicted by a model of motion direction that encodes the successive displacements of the intersections of the gratings. Finally, we demonstrate that the velocity thresholds for perceived rotation exhibit a meridional anisotropy that depends on the direction of drift of the overall pattern and not on the orientation of the components.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Stereopsis and positional acuity under dark adaptation.	Though experience tells us we can perceive depth in dim light, it is not so obvious that one of the chief mechanisms for depth perception, stereopsis, is possible under scotopic conditions. The only studies on human stereopsis in the dark adapted state seem to be those of Nagel [(1902) Zeitschrift fr Psychologie, 27, 264-266] and Mueller and Lloyd [(1948) Proceedings of the National Academy of Science, U.S.A., 34, 223-227], both of which used real objects or line stereograms. We tested stereopsis using both random-dot and line stereograms and, in agreement with these studies, found that stereopsis is indeed possible in dark adaptation. We also measured stereo acuity and positional acuity (both of which are examples of hyperacuity) and compared these with grating acuity at several levels of light and dark adaptation. At all illumination levels tested, acuities for stereopsis and relative line position were both higher than for grating acuity. As light levels decreased, positional and grating acuity declined in parallel fashion, whereas stereoacuity declined more steeply.
Coherence thresholds for discrimination of motion direction in infants.	The sensitivity of 3-month-old infants to direction of motion in random-dot patterns was assessed by measuring coherence thresholds for the discrimination of a pattern, in which opposite directions were segregated into alternate horizontal strips, from an unsegregated pattern. The coherently moving dots had a displacement size of 0.16 deg (velocity 8 deg/sec), and their direction of motion reversed periodically. For both infants and an adult subject coherence thresholds decreased with increasing height of the segregated strips, and with increasing duration of the interval between direction reversals. However the infants required larger minimum heights and longer minimum durations in order to extract motion direction. Even under the best conditions infants were markedly less sensitive, with coherence thresholds of around 50%, compared with 5-7% for the adult. In addition, within the group of infants coherence thresholds were negatively correlated with age. This developmental increase in motion sensitivity at an intermediate velocity suggests that a large part of the improvement in upper and lower velocity thresholds during development is a result of a uniform increase in sensitivity across all velocities, though the results do not rule out additional specific improvements in sensitivity at the extremes of the velocity range.
Efficient and unbiased modifications of the QUEST threshold method: theory, simulations, experimental evaluation and practical implementation.	QUEST [Watson and Pelli, Perception and Psychophysics, 13, 113-120 (1983)] is an efficient method of measuring thresholds which is based on three steps: (1) Specification of prior knowledge and assumptions, including an initial probability density function (p.d.f.) of threshold (i.e. relative probability of different thresholds in the population). (2) A method for choosing the stimulus intensity of any trial. (3) A method for choosing the final threshold estimate. QUEST introduced a Bayesian framework for combining prior knowledge with the results of previous trials to calculate a current p.d.f.; this is then used to implement Steps 2 and 3. While maintaining this Bayesian approach, this paper evaluates whether modifications of the QUEST method (particularly Step 2, but also Steps 1 and 3) can lead to greater precision and reduced bias. Four variations of the QUEST method (differing in Step 2) were evaluated by computer simulations. In addition to the standard method of setting the stimulus intensity to the mode of the current p.d.f. of threshold, the alternatives of using the mean and the median were evaluated. In the fourth variation--the Minimum Variance Method--the next stimulus intensity is chosen to minimize the expected variance at the end of the next trial. An exact enumeration technique with up to 20 trials was used for both yes-no and two-alternative forced-choice (2AFC) experiments. In all cases, using the mean (here called ZEST) provided better precision than using the median which in turn was better than using the mode. The Minimum Variance Method provided slightly better precision than ZEST. The usual threshold criterion--based on the "ideal sweat factor"--may not provide optimum precision; efficiency can generally be improved by optimizing the threshold criterion. We therefore recommend either using ZEST with the optimum threshold criterion or the more complex Minimum Variance Method. A distinction is made between "measurement bias", which is derived from the mean of repeated threshold estimates for a single real threshold, and "interpretation bias", which is derived from the mean of real thresholds yielding a single threshold estimate. If their assumptions are correct, the current methods have no interpretation bias, but they do have measurement bias. Interpretation bias caused by errors in the assumptions used by ZEST is evaluated. The precisions and merits of yes-no and 2AFC techniques are compared.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Some temporal aspects of stereoacuity.	Stereoacuity thresholds improve considerably with practice when measured using three vertical lines 15' apart horizontally and presented briefly. For experienced observers, these thresholds are relatively independent of exposure time for stimulus durations smaller than 100 msec. The thresholds are 2-3 times larger when the outer flanking lines are shown continuously than when they and the central target line are turned on and off simultaneously. When the target and flanking lines are shown sequentially, stereoacuity thresholds can be predicted from the number of times the configuration is presented. Changes in thresholds can be measured for intervals as small as 5 msec between successive presentation of the relative disparity configuration. The underlying mechanism is modeled well by a first order auto-regression process.
The spatial properties of binocular suppression zone.	Spatial properties of binocular suppression zones were studied with one-dimensional difference of Gaussian (DOG) patterns. Two parallel DOG patterns were presented in one eye and a single DOG, perpendicular to the double DOG, was presented to the other eye. When viewed together, the probability of seeing the portion of the single DOG in between of the double DOG depended on the separation of the double DOG stimulus. Threshold separations for detecting an intermediate segment of the single DOG pattern (binocular suppression zones) were measured as a function of spatial frequency, contrast and orientation of the stimuli. The diameter of suppression zone decreased proportionally with increasing peak spatial frequency of the DOG patterns. The vertical dimension of the suppression zone was larger than the horizontal dimension at low spatial frequencies but the inverse tended to occur at high spatial frequencies. Diameter of the suppression zone increased rapidly with increasing contrast of the stimuli when the contrast was lower than 20-30% but asymptoted at higher contrasts.
Relationship between spatial integration and spatial spread of contrast energy in detection.	Detection efficiencies were measured for two kinds of grating stimuli. The stimuli of the first kind were uniform square shaped cosine gratings of various sizes but of constant spatial frequency. The stimuli of the second kind were composed of nine small grating patches of the same spatial frequency arranged into a square array. The array size was varied by changing the inter-patch distance. The efficiencies for the two kinds of stimuli obeyed the same decreasing function of area defined by the respective outlines of the grating patch array and the uniform grating. The result means that detection efficiency is not determined by the retinal area stimulated, but by the distances between different parts of stimulus, i.e. the spatial spread of contrast energy, which can be described by a radial moment measure computed from the image.
Temporal integration at equiluminance and chromatic adaptation.	The present study showed that at equiluminance the critical duration of temporal integration became shorter as the chromatic saturation of an adaptation field was increased. These results suggest that the chromatic coding system (which is assumed to posses poorer temporal resolution or larger temporal integration time than the luminance coding system) can change its temporal integrating organization with its own adaptation level, independently of the luminance system.
Directional anisotropy of motion sensitivity across the visual field.	There is an implicit assumption in most models of movement direction perception that sensitivity to motion is directionally isotropic, i.e. equal for movement in all directions. However, most previous research on directional effects on human motion perception have measured responses (e.g. manual reaction times) to suprathreshold stimuli rather than motion sensitivity. I investigated this possibility by measuring monocular sensitivity to motion coherence in small field random-dot kinematograms with global leftwards or rightwards motion as a function of eccentricity along the horizontal meridian in each eye of six observers. Although foveal motion sensitivity was isotropic, small but significant differences (about 0.1 log units) in sensitivity in favour of centripetal motion were observed at eccentricities between 5.0 and 12.5 deg. Motion anisotropy was significantly larger in the temporal than the nasal visual hemifield. In a second experiment, motion coherence thresholds for upwards and downwards movement were measured foveally and at +/- 5 deg on the vertical meridian. At the fovea, no difference in sensitivity to upwards vs downwards motion was observed but these vertical axis thresholds were significantly higher than foveal thresholds for movement along the horizontal axis. Directional anisotropy in favour of centripetal motion was present in the inferior visual field but directional isotropy was found for the superior visual field. Perhaps this generally heightened sensitivity to centripetal directions may function normally to facilitate figure/ground segmentation in the presence of centrifugally-moving background contours that typically accompany forward locomotion.
Stereo matching precedes dichoptic masking.	Stereo matching can intervene to prevent dichoptic masking. In a dichoptic masking paradigm we measured the contrast threshold for a bar target, presented to one eye, as a function of the contrast of an identical masking bar, presented at retinal correspondence in the other eye. Confirming previous studies of dichoptic masking with sinusoidal gratings, the test bar thresholds rose proportionally with increasing masking contrast. This threshold elevation was almost nullified when an extra bar was presented to the eye seeing the test stimulus. Release from masking occurred when the disparity between the masking bar and extra bar was < 20 min arc over a range of contrast levels (8-45%), and for bars containing either broad spatial frequency spectra or bars with only high spatial frequencies (peak = 12 c/deg). The latter result rules out an explanation for the release from masking based on contrast discrimination in low spatial frequency channels. The extra bar was effective in releasing the test bar from masking as long as the extra bar's contrast was greater than about one-fifth the contrast of the mask, a result that suggests that there is a contrast threshold for stereo matching. We interpret our findings to indicate that a stage of stereo matching occurs prior to the neural site limiting dichoptic contrast discrimination.
Perceived contrast of gratings and plaids: non-linear summation across oriented filters.	Plaids composed of two orthogonal sine-wave gratings appeared to be of lower contrast than single gratings of the same Michelson luminance contrast. This effect for plaids was obtained at all spatial frequencies (1-16 c/deg) and contrast levels (2-32%). Contrast-matching data plotted as a function of the angle between plaid components (0-90 deg) and as a function of spatial frequency and standard contrast level were consistent with a model in which the response of each orientation-tuned spatial frequency channel is a threshold-corrected power function of contrast, and is followed by quadratic summation of responses across all channels. The best-fitting contrast-response exponent in the main experiment was 0.63. Analysis of several other data-sets suggested a slightly higher value, 0.80. The same model gave a good account of contrast-matching between simple and compound (two-component) one dimensional gratings, accounting in particular for the apparent increase in contrast summation exponent at low contrasts reported by Quick, Hamerly and Reichert [(1976) Vision Research, 16, 351-355]. The model can, with one further assumption, account for the finding that contrast-matching between sine-wave and square-wave gratings depended only on the amplitude at the fundamental frequency. Comparison with contrast discrimination studies suggests that internal noise (variance of a channel's contrast-response) is not constant, but increases approximately in proportion to the mean response.
Understanding changes in the b-wave of the ERG caused by heterogeneous receptor damage.	To understand better the relationship between heterogeneous receptor damage and the changes in the b-wave of the rod ERG.
Phenotypes of stop codon and splice site rhodopsin mutations causing retinitis pigmentosa.	To understand the pathophysiology of retinitis pigmentosa caused by mutations in the rhodopsin gene that lead to truncation of the protein.
Sensory thresholds in older adults: reproducibility and reference values.	To evaluate the test-retest reproducibility of vibratory perception (VPT) and thermal discrimination (TDT) thresholds on the foot in older adults, we examined 20 50-76-year-old subjects with, and 19 without non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Adjusted reference values for both thresholds were obtained by assessing the relations with age, body height, and sex among 216 subjects with normal glucose tolerance, of the same age, sampled randomly from a geographically defined general population. The VPT appeared to be more reproducible than the TDT (reliability coefficient 0.89 vs. 0.54). The reproducibility of the VPT was inversely related to age and better for men than for women. Diabetes and glycemic level did not affect the reproducibility of either threshold. Both thresholds were related to age and height. Women had a higher VPT than men. The relations between sex and sensory thresholds at the lower limb, reported in previous studies, were probably confounded by height.
Dark adaptation in disabled readers screened for Scotopic Sensitivity Syndrome.	A peripheral retina, photoreceptor, or transient visual-system deficit has been suggested as a basis for dyslexia. We performed dark adaptation using a Goldmann-Weekers adaptometer on 41 dyslexic readers subjected to the Irlen Differential Perceptual Schedule for the Scotopic Sensitivity Syndrome and on 23 volunteers of normal reading ability, all aged between 10 and 20 years. 12 of the 41 disabled readers examined had abnormally poor dark adaptation at peripheral retinal locations consistent with a rod processing-system deficit.
Processing of mechanosensory information from gustatory receptors on a hind leg of the locust.	Gustatory receptors (basiconic sensilla) on the legs of the desert locust, Schistocerca gregaria, are innervated by chemosensory afferents and by a mechanosensory afferent. We show, for the first time, that these mechanosensory afferents form an elaborate detector system with the following properties: 1) they have low threshold displacement angles that decrease with increasing stimulus frequency in the range 0.05-1 Hz, 2) they respond phasically to deflections of the receptor shaft and adapt rapidly to repetitive stimulation, 3) they encode the velocity of the stimulus in their spike frequency and have velocity thresholds lower than 1 degree/s, and 4) they are directionally sensitive, so that stimuli moving proximally towards the coxa elicit the greatest response. The mechanosensory afferents, but not the chemosensory afferents, make apparently monosynaptic connections with spiking local interneurones in a population with somata at the ventral midline of the metathoracic ganglion. They evoke excitatory synaptic potentials that can sum to produce spikes in the spiking local interneurones. Stimulation of the single mechanosensory afferent of a gustatory receptor can also give rise to long lasting depolarizations, or to bursts of excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the interneurones that can persist for several seconds after the afferent spikes. These interneurones are part of the local circuitry involved in the production of local movements of a leg. The mechanosensory afferents from gustatory receptors must, therefore, be considered as part of the complex array of exteroceptors that provide mechanosensory information to these local circuits for use in adjusting, or controlling locomotion.
Does the MFB convey functionally different reward signals?	Pulse frequencies that sustain the same % of the maximum self-stimulation rate (equipotent frequencies) are equipreferred by rats because they elicit identical reward signals. However, when two equipotent frequencies are delivered through different electrodes, lack of equipreference can be expected if the resulting neural signals belong to different rewarding processes and if these signals are differentially ranked on the animal's decisional scale. We used this rationale to test the possibility that the MFB conveys functionally different signals. Rats were implanted with an electrode near the anterior MFB (aMFB) and another near the posterior MFB (pMFB). The rate of self-stimulation, as a function of the pulse frequency, was first obtained for each electrode, separately. Rats were then allowed to press for aMFB or pMFB stimulation in a double-lever box. One of the levers delivered a fixed aMFB frequency whereas the other delivered a variable pMFB frequency. In the following session, this situation was reversed. The time spent bar-pressing for each stimulus was plotted as a function of the variable frequency. Equipreference for equipotent stimuli (i.e. for frequencies that supported the same % of the maximum rate in the single-lever box) was noted for 6 out of 11 electrode pairs. However, in 3 cases, the subjects preferred the pMFB stimulus over an aMFB equipotent stimulus and in two other cases they preferred the aMFB stimulus. The data from these five subjects suggest the presence of functional heterogeneity within the MFB reward pathway, a view already supported by a variety of other studies.
Effect of uncorrected refractive errors upon central visual field testing.	An investigation of the effects of uncorrected refractive errors upon a central visual field examination has been made with a view to establishing what the likely effects would be of omitting a refractive correction when screening the visual field with a threshold related, supra-threshold strategy on the Henson CFA3000. The results indicate that, while a linear relationship exists between the extent of threshold elevation and the product of residual refractive error and pupil size, the scatter in the results means that accurate predictions cannot be made in individual cases. The threshold elevation was found to be independent of eccentricity (within the central 21 degrees from fixation) and did not increase the variability of results. These last two findings indicate that uncorrected refractive errors are unlikely to affect the sensitivity of the threshold related, supra-threshold strategy to localized visual field defects.
Glasgow Acuity Cards: a new test for the measurement of letter acuity in children.	Problems with design and format of the traditional Snellen chart have led to the development of alternative charts for the measurement of visual acuity in adults. However, advances in chart design for the measurement of visual acuity in pre-school children have not paralleled those used in adult test charts. Visual acuity can be measured in infants and very young children using behavioural and electrophysiological techniques but clinical measurement of letter acuity tends to commence when the child is old enough to interact and co-operate with the examiner. Charts which are commercially available in the UK for measuring letter acuity in pre-school children (3-5 years old) either use single optotypes or are derivatives of the Snellen format. There is a need for a test of letter acuity for use with this young age group which is accurate, reliable and based upon sound and established design principles. Glasgow Acuity Cards have been designed to include features that should allow change in letter acuity to be detected in pre-school children, especially those undergoing vision therapy training. The test is performed at 3 m and incorporates several design features which have been used previously in adult charts but are new to childrens' test charts. These include: linear progression of letter sizes using a log scale; letters of approximately equal legibility; equal number of letters per line; control of contour interaction; screening cards to determine initial level of acuity. The test is quick and easy to perform and should provide a means of detecting change in letter acuity, with increased confidence.
Effects of carotid endarterectomy on various neuropsychologic parameters. A neuropsychologic longitudinal study]	Carotid endarterectomy was performed in 25 patients with symptomatic cerebrovascular disease. All patients underwent detailed neuropsychological investigations immediately before surgery, immediately after surgery, and again after a follow-up period of 14 months. Immediately after surgery the flicker fusion frequency was temporarily reduced, indicating an impairment of global cognitive functioning. Postoperatively, verbal attention was found to be improved, particularly in younger patients, in patients with TIA, and in patients with left-sided operation. Finally, visual retention (Benton) was improved at the end of the observation period, especially in older patients and in patients with left-sided operation. Considering the complexity of pathologic brain perfusion, the effects of carotid endarterectomy can only be explained if a multidimensional approach is adopted.
Pain perception threshold in major depression.	Somatosensory perception threshold (SPT) and pain perception threshold (PPT) were studied in 16 patients with major depression, compared to the findings in an age-matched and gender-matched control group and related to the psychopathological state evaluated by means of the Hamilton Depression Scale. Perception thresholds were assessed by means of a noninvasive high-frequency electric skin stimulation. Absolute perception thresholds were increased in the patients. However, the relative pain perception threshold (RPPT = PPT: SPT) was significantly reduced. RPPT was positively correlated with retardation. It was negatively correlated with anxiety, suggesting that a reduction of pain perception thresholds in depressive patients may be attributed to anxiety and impaired stress-coping.
Computer simulations of the effects of different synaptic input systems on motor unit recruitment.	1. The effects of four different synaptic input systems on the recruitment order within a mammalian motoneuron pool were investigated using computer simulations. The synaptic inputs and motor unit properties in the model were based as closely as possible on the available experimental data for the cat medial gastrocnemius pool and muscle. Monte Carlo techniques were employed to add random variance to the motor unit thresholds and forces and to sample the resulting recruitment orders. 2. The effects of the synaptic inputs on recruitment order depended on how they modified the range of recruitment thresholds established by differences in the intrinsic current thresholds of the motoneurons. Application of a uniform synaptic input to the pool (i.e., distributed equally to all motoneurons) resulted in a recruitment sequence that was quite stable even with the addition of large amounts of random variance. With 50% added random variance, the recruitment reversals did not exceed 8%. 3. The simulated monosynaptic input from homonymous Ia afferent fibers generated a twofold expansion of the range of recruitment thresholds beyond that attributed to the differences in the intrinsic current thresholds. The Ia input generated a small reduction in the number of recruitment reversals due to random variance (6% reversals at 50% random variance). The simulated monosynaptic vestibulospinal input generated a twofold compression of the range of recruitment thresholds that exerted a modest increase in the number of recruitment reversals (12% reversals at 50% random variance). 4. In comparison with the modest effects of the two monosynaptic inputs, the simulated oligosynpatic rubrospinal excitatory input exerted a nine-fold compression in the recruitment threshold range that resulted in a recruitment sequence that was highly sensitive to random variance. With 50% added random variance, the sequence became nearly random (40% reversals). 5. Reciprocal Ia inhibition was simulated by a uniform distribution within the pool, but its effects on recruitment order were highly dependent on the distribution of the excitatory input. Reciprocal inhibition exerted only minor effects on recruitment order when combined with the Ia or vestibulospinal inputs. However, when the excitatory drive was supplied by the rubrospinal input, even small amounts of reciprocal inhibition were sufficient to completely reverse the normal recruitment sequence. 6. The simulated monosynaptic Ia input was highly effective in compensating for the disruptive effects of rubrospinal excitation on recruitment order. Even a small Ia bias combined with the rubrospinal excitation was sufficient to halve the effects of random variance and to restore the normal recruitment sequence in the presence of rather large amounts of reciprocal inhibition.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Primary afferent depolarization of muscle afferents elicited by stimulation of joint afferents in cats with intact neuraxis and during reversible spinalization.	1. In the anesthetized and artificially ventilated cat, stimulation of the posterior articular nerve (PAN) with low strengths (1.2-1.4 x T) produced a small negative response (N1) in the cord dorsum of the lumbosacral spinal cord with a mean onset latency of 5.2 ms. Stronger stimuli (> 1.4 x T) produced two additional components (N2 and N3) with longer latencies (mean latencies 7.5 and 15.7 ms, respectively), usually followed by a slow positivity lasting 100-150 ms. With stimulus strengths above 10 x T there was in some experiments a delayed response (N4; mean latency 32 ms). 2. Activation of posterior knee joint nerve with single pulses and intensities producing N1 responses only, usually produced no dorsal root potentials (DRPs), or these were rather small. Stimulation with strengths producing N2 and N3 responses produced distinct DRPs. Trains of pulses were clearly more effective than single pulses in producing DRPs, even in the low-intensity range. 3. Cooling the thoracic spinal cord to block impulse conduction, increased the DRPs and the N3 responses produced by PAN stimulation without significantly affecting the N2 responses. Reversible spinalization also increased the DRPs produced by stimulation of cutaneous nerves. In contrast, the DRPs produced by stimulation of group I afferents from flexors were reduced. 4. Conditioning electrical stimulation of intermediate and high-threshold myelinated fibers in the PAN depressed the DRPs produced by stimulation of group I muscle and of cutaneous nerves. 5. Analysis of the intraspinal threshold changes of single Ia and Ib fibers has provided evidence that stimulation of intermediate and high threshold myelinated fibers in the posterior knee joint nerve inhibits the primary afferent depolarization (PAD) of Ia fibers, and may either produce PAD or inhibit the PAD in Ib fibers, in the same manner as stimulation of cutaneous nerves. In 7/16 group I fibers the inhibition of the PAD was increased during reversible spinalization. 6. The results obtained suggest that intermediate and high-threshold myelinated fibers in the PAN have the same actions on Ia and Ib fibers as intermediate and high-threshold cutaneous afferents and may therefore be considered as belonging to the same functional system. They further indicate that in anesthetized preparations the pathways mediating the PAD of group I fibers, as well as the pathways mediating the inhibition of the PAD, may be subjected to a descending control that is removed by spinalization.
The spectral properties of the two rod pathways.	Psychophysical and electroretinographic observations in normal and achromat observers suggest that rod flicker signals have access to at least two retinal pathways: one (pi 0), slow and sensitive, predominating at scotopic luminance levels; the other (pi'0), fast and insensitive, predominating at mesopic ones. We have measured steady-state flicker detection sensitivities on background fields ranging from 430 to 640 nm in normal observers. Our results suggest that cone signals can reduce the sensitivity of pi'0, but have comparatively little effect on pi 0. The pi'0 field sensitivities derived from these measurements have been fitted with linear combinations of the scotopic luminosity function, V' lambda, the M-cone spectral sensitivity function, M lambda, and the L-cone function, L lambda. These fits demonstrate a clear cone influence on pi'0, but they cannot tell us unequivocally whether the influence is from the M-cones, from the L-cones or from both. Accordingly, we made similar measurements in dichromats, who lack one of the two longer wavelength cone types. These measurements revealed an L-cone influence on pi'0 in the deuteranope and an M-cone influence in the protanope. This suggests that both cone types can affect the sensitivity of pi'0. The finding that the steady-state cone signals reduce the sensitivity of pi'0 but have little effect on pi 0 could suggest that pi'0 signals travel through a faster cone pathway (with its own gain control at which both rod and cone signals can reduce rod threshold), while pi 0 signals travel through a separate rod pathway. However, it could simply reflect the fact that pi'0 predominates at higher luminances than pi 0 where the cone excitation level is inevitably greater. To examine the influence of the cones on pi 0 more closely, we: (i) produced transient cone excitation by alternating rod-equated 480 and 679 nm fields; and (ii) extended our steady-state measurements to include deep-red backgrounds of 650 and 680 nm. Both experiments revealed a small, but measurable influence of the cones on pi 0.
Nature of coarse-to-fine constraints on binocular fusion.	Several stereo-matching algorithms posit that processing on coarse (low spatial frequency) scales constrains processing on fine (high spatial frequency) scales by shifting the disparity range over which fine mechanisms operate. If this were the case, stereo increment thresholds for high frequencies in the presence of low frequencies would be constant, regardless of base disparity. In contrast, we find that in the presence of low spatial frequencies, increment thresholds for high spatial frequencies increase with base disparity, as do increment thresholds for high frequencies presented alone. As a further test of whether information on coarse scales enhances processing on fine scales, diplopia thresholds were measured. In the presence of low frequencies, fusion ranges for high frequencies were severely reduced. These constraints were found to exhibit a power-law dependence on low frequency contrast and to operate over relatively localized areas of the visual field.
Isolation of the middle- and long-wavelength-sensitive cones in normal trichromats.	Spectral sensitivity in the red-green spectral range typically reflects the joint influence of the middle-wavelength-sensitive cones (the M or green cones) and long-wavelength-sensitive cones (the L or red cones). The balance of M- and L-cone influence can be altered by presenting the test lights superimposed upon steady background fields of long or short wavelength. We find that presenting test stimuli just after an abrupt exchange between two colored backgrounds permits an easier and closer approach to cone isolation than presenting them either on a steady background or following an intense bleach. Background exchange drives the flicker detection or flicker photometric spectral sensitivities measured at 17 Hz to a limiting condition at lower intensities than do steady backgrounds. This condition is consistent with either M- or L-cone isolation. Steady backgrounds do not produce complete cone isolation: even on backgrounds that push spectral sensitivity closest to M or L, there are substantial phase differences between flickering lights of different color. In contrast, no phase differences remain following background exchange. The improvement in cone isolation produced by the exchange procedure is not confined to flicker measurements: the spectral range over which subjects are temporarily monochromatic is more extended following background exchange than on steady fields.
Spectral sensitivities of the human cones.	Transient chromatic adaptation produced by an abrupt change of background color permits an easier and closer approach to cone isolation than does steady-state adaptation. Using this technique, we measured middle-wave-sensitive (M)-cone spectral sensitivities in 11 normals and 2 protanopes and long-wavelength-sensitive (L-) cone spectral sensitivities in 12 normals and 4 deuteranopes. Although there is great individual variation in the adapting intensity required for effective isolation, there is little variation in the shape of the M- and L-cone spectral-sensitivity functions across subjects. At middle and long wavelengths, our mean spectral sensitivities agree extremely well with dichromatic spectral sensitivities and with the M- and L-cone fundamentals of Smith and Pokorny [Vision Res. 15, 161 (1975)] and of Vos and Walraven [Vision Res. 11, 799 (1971)], both of which are based on the CIE (Judd-revised) 2 degrees color-matching functions (CMF's). But the agreement with the M-cone fundamentals of Estvez [Ph.D. dissertation, Amsterdam University (1979)] and of Vos et al. [Vision Res. 30, 936 (1990)], which are based on the Stiles-Burch 2 degrees CMF's, is poor. Using our spectral-sensitivity data, tritanopic color-matching data, and Stile's pi 3, we derive new sets of cone fundamentals. The consistency of the proposed fundamentals based on either the Stiles-Burch 2 degrees CMF's or the CIE 10 degrees large-field CMF's with each other, with protanopic and deuteranopic spectral sensitivities, with tritanopic color-matching data, and with short-wavelength-sensitive (S-) cone spectral-sensitivity data suggests that they are to be preferred over fundamentals based on the CIE 2 degrees CMF's.
Spatial modulation transfer function of vision by pattern visual-evoked potentials in patients with early glaucoma.	We applied subjective and psychophysical methods and pattern visual-evoked potential (VEP) P100peak latency as an objective index to measure spatial modulation transfer function (MTF) in normal subjects and patients with early primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in an effort to detect impairment of the spatial MTF of vision. To estimate spatial MTF objectively, the peak latency of the P100 component of pattern VEP was investigated. The mean contrast sensitivity in normal subjects derived from the pattern VEP peak latency was found to be maximum at the check size of 14.4 minutes of arc (i.e., 2.08 cycles per degree of spatial frequency), and the objective spatial MTF curve coincided well with that of the subjective one at all spatial frequencies examined. A statistically significant positive correlation was found between the objective (VEP) contrast threshold and the subjective one. Deterioration of the objective contrast sensitivity derived from the VEP peak latency was found to be much prominent that of the subjective one in patients with early glaucoma.
Different uses of chromatic signals in patients with congenital and acquired colour vision deficiencies.	Chromatic signals can be used to generate perceived colour and also to detect spatially structured objects defined only by chromatic differences. These two attributes have previously been investigated in dichromats and cerebral achromatopsic patients using a new colour vision test developed at City University that makes possible the isolation of pure chromatic signals (Barbur et al. Proc. R. Soc. London B 258, 327-334, 1994). We have investigated acquired colour vision changes in a 69-year-old patient, after conventional colour vision tests gave ambiguous results. His ability to detect an object using chromatic signals was impaired more than his ability to detect a colour change, and this impairment was greater in the right eye than in the left eye. This dissociation suggests parallel pathways may be involved in the two processes of coding chromatic signals. Recent neurological testing on the same patient has indicated the onset of multiple sclerosis. Our much earlier finding based on colour vision testing may therefore have useful diagnostic implications.
Establishing the threshold prior to single and multiple stimulus supra-threshold strategies.	The purpose of this study was to establish whether the routines used to establish the threshold at the beginning of single and multiple stimulus supra-threshold strategies yield the same values and whether data from one strategy can, therefore, be compared with those from the other without having to compensate for a difference in test intensities. Single stimulus and multiple stimulus supra-threshold strategies were conducted on 79 subjects using a Henson 4000 perimeter. On average the multiple stimulus strategy gave a value 0.095 dB higher than the single stimulus strategy. The differences between the two strategies was so small that results from the two strategies can be compared without having to compensate for any changes in the supra-threshold test intensity.
Prevalence and assessment of qualitative olfactory dysfunction in different age groups.	The prevalence of parosmia and phantosmia among 363 chemosensory and nasal/sinus patients was studied, as was the accuracy with which our clinical questionnaire could assess these dysfunctions. We then investigated whether patients with parosmia or phantosmia, matched for odor intensity, perform poorer on odor identification than do patients with no dysosmia. More than 40% of the study group evidenced either parosmia (18.7%) and/or phantosmia (25.6%), a finding that suggests that more attention should be paid by the medical practitioner in addressing qualitative olfactory dysfunction. Furthermore, it appears that assessment of these dysfunctions may aid in differential diagnosis, and that questionnaires can be used with reasonable validity irrespective of the patient's age. Finally, the results imply that parosmia may be reflected in a discrepancy between odor identification and detection.
Effects of intraventricular encapsulated hNGF-secreting fibroblasts in aged rats.	Exogenous NGF administered into the central nervous system (CNS) has been reported to improve cognitive function in aged rats. However, concerns have been expressed about the risks involved with supplying NGF to the CNS. In this study, baby hamster kidney cells (BHK) genetically modified to secrete human NGF (hNGF) were encapsulated in semipermeable membranes and implanted intraventricularly. ChAT/LNGFR-positive basal forebrain neurons were shown to atrophy and degenerate with age, especially in cognitively impaired rats. The encapsulated BHK-NGF cells produced less than 10% of doses previously reported to be effective, but this was sufficient to increase the size of ChAT/LNGFR-positive basal forebrain neurons in the aged and learning-impaired rats to the size of the neurons in young healthy rats. The hNGF from these encapsulated cells also improved performance in a repeated-acquisition version of the Morris water maze spatial learning task in learning-impaired 20.6- and 26.7-mo-old rats. Furthermore, there was no evidence that these doses of hNGF impaired Morris water maze performance in the youngest 3.3-5.4 mo rats, and analyses of mortality rates, body weights, somatosensory thresholds, potential hyperalgesia, and activity levels, suggested that these levels of exogenous hNGF are not toxic or harmful to aged rats. These results suggest that CNS-implanted semipermeable membranes, containing genetically modified xenogeneic cells continuously producing these levels of hNGF, attenuate age-related cognitive deficits in nonimmunosuppressed aged rats, and that both the surgical implantation procedure and long-term exposure to low doses of hNGF appear safe in aged rats.
Temporal integration of events within and between the cerebral hemispheres.	The effect of interhemispheric transmission time (IHTT) on temporal perception was investigated by comparing simultaneity thresholds under unimanual and bimanual stimulation conditions. In the unimanual conditions the tactile stimuli were delivered to the same hand and were received by the same hemisphere, but in bimanual conditions, where stimuli were delivered to different hands, interhemispheric communication was necessary in order to compare the timing of the two stimuli. Randomised order of stimulating the fingers of the hands was compared with consistent stimulation of each hand. Previous studies have used only consistent stimulation. Thirty-two undergraduate university students (16 males and 16 females) were tested. Bimanual simultaneity thresholds were significantly higher than unimanual. Previous research showing an absence of laterality effects for simultaneity judgements was confirmed, supporting a hemispheric equivalence model of temporal processing. Simultaneity thresholds were not affected by randomisation of stimulus location, indicating that expectancy effects were not responsible for the difference between bimanual and unimanual thresholds. The implication of these findings is that temporal perceptions are affected by the process of interhemispheric transmission.
Odor sensitivity is impaired in HIV-positive cognitively impaired patients.	An estimated 7-28% of patients infected by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) develop dementia and at least 50% develop mild neurocognitive impairment. Past studies have shown odor identification impairments in HIV + neurocognitively impaired patients. It is difficult, however, based on an odor identification test to state with certainty that individuals with cognitive impairment have sensory olfactory deficits, because odor identification tests are known to draw upon cognitive skills. In the present study odor detection sensitivity was evaluated using an ascending, forced-choice, two-alternative, odor threshold test for butanol. Subjects were divided into three groups, HIV seropositive (HIV+) neurocognitively impaired, HIV+ neurocognitively unimpaired, and HIV negative, based on neurological and psychological testing. An analysis of variance revealed significantly poorer odor sensitivity for the HIV+ neurocognitively impaired group than for the two control groups. A significant negative correlation between degree of cognitive impairment and olfactory sensitivity was also found. We suspect that the olfactory deficits found in the HIV+ neurocognitively impaired subjects are primarily due to damage to the central nervous system; however, nasal infection may be a contributing etiology.
Myelinated mechanically insensitive afferents from monkey hairy skin: heat-response properties.	To compare the heat responses of mechanically sensitive and mechanically insensitive A-fiber nociceptors, an electrical search technique was used to locate the receptive fields of 156 A-fibers that innervated the hairy skin in the anesthetized monkey (77 A beta-fibers, 79 A delta-fibers). Two-thirds of these afferents were either low-threshold mechanoreceptors (n = 91) or low-threshold cold receptors (n = 11). Nine A beta-fibers and 41 A delta-fibers were cutaneous nociceptors, and four A delta-fibers innervated subcutaneous tissue. The majority of cutaneous A-fiber nociceptors were heat sensitive (43/50 = 86%). Heat-insensitive cutaneous A-fiber nociceptors consisted of one cold nociceptor, three silent nociceptors, and three high-threshold mechanoreceptors. Two types of response were observed to an intense heat stimulus (53 degrees C, 30 s). Type I (n = 26) was characterized by a long latency (mean: 5 s) and a late peak discharge (16 s). Type II (n = 17) was characterized by a short latency (0.2 s) and an early peak discharge (0.5 s). Type I fibers exhibited faster conduction velocities (25 vs. 14 m/s) and higher heat thresholds (> 53 vs. 47 degrees C, 1-s duration) than type II fibers. The possibility that the type I heat response was a result of sensitization was tested in three fibers by determining the heat threshold to 30-s duration stimuli (42-46 degrees C). For this long stimulus duration heat thresholds were reproducible across multiple runs, and the threshold to the 1-s duration stimulus was not altered by these tests. Thus fibers with a type I heat response were not high-threshold mechanoreceptors that developed a heat response through sensitization. Fibers with a type II heat response had significantly higher mechanical thresholds (median: 15 bar) than fibers with a type I heat response (5 bar). This finding accounts for the observation that type II heat responses were infrequently observed in earlier studies wherein the search technique depended on mechanical responsiveness. Fibers with a type II response exhibited a graded response to heat stimuli, marked fatigue to repeated applications of heat stimuli, and adaptation to sustained heat stimuli similar to that seen in C-fiber nociceptors. First pain sensation to heat is served by type II A-fiber nociceptors that are mechanically insensitive. Type I A-fiber nociceptors likely signal pain to long-duration heat stimuli and may signal first pain sensation to mechanical stimuli.
Psychophysical evidence for a magnocellular pathway deficit in dyslexia.	The relationship between reading ability and psychophysical performance was examined to test the hypothesis that dyslexia is associated with a deficit in the magnocellular (M) pathway. Speed discrimination thresholds and contrast detection thresholds were measured under conditions (low mean luminance, low spatial frequency, high temporal frequency) for which psychophysical performance presumably depends on M pathway integrity. Dyslexic subjects had higher psychophysical thresholds than controls in both the speed discrimination and contrast detection tasks, but only the differences in speed thresholds were statistically significant. In addition, there was a strong correlation between individual differences in speed thresholds and reading rates. These results support the hypothesis for an M pathway abnormality in dyslexia, and suggest that motion discrimination may be a more sensitive psychophysical predictor of dyslexia than contrast sensitivity.
Independent speed-tuned global-motion systems.	Several experiments were conducted to investigate the role of speed in global-motion processing; the extraction of the direction of motion of a small subset of coherently-moving (signal) dots in a stimulus in which the other (noise) dots move in random directions. The specific aim of the experiments was to determine whether multiple speed-tuned global-motion systems exist. The results of these experiments are: (1) when the signal dots were chosen from a group of dots moving at 1.2 degrees s-1, the speed of additional-noise dots had to be below 4.8 degrees s-1 for them to affect global-motion extraction; (2) the addition of static dots did not impair the extraction of a global-motion signal carried by dots moving at 1.2 degrees s-1; (3) noise dots moving at 1.2 degrees s-1 impaired the extraction of a global-motion signal from dots moving at 10.8 degrees s-1, though not to the same extent as dots moving at a higher speed; and (4) these results were dependent upon speed, not spatial-step size or luminance contrast. These results are interpreted as indicating that global-motion extraction occurs within at least two independent speed tuned systems. One of these systems is sensitive to high speeds and the other to low speeds.
Local and global factors affecting the coherent motion of gratings presented in multiple apertures.	Using stimuli composed of two independent gratings viewed through multiple apertures, we investigate a number of parameters affecting the integration of locally ambiguous motions into globally coherent motion. In four experiments, we varied local factors (grating spatial frequency, speed, contrast, duty cycle, orientation) and global factors (degree of similarity and common fate between the gratings, and symmetry in the configuration of the grating pattern) and examined their effects on global motion coherence. Our results, confirming accounts offered by previous investigators, indicate that local competition between motion signals generated by contours (ambiguous) and their line terminations (unambiguous) is important in determining global motion coherence in multiple-aperture stimuli. Our results also indicate that global factors can affect perceived coherence independently of local motion signals, suggesting the involvement of higher-level motion areas and a role for non-motion processes such as those involved in pattern and form perception. Comparing motion coherence with other two-dimensional (2-D) stimuli (plaids) shows that 2-D multiple-aperture stimuli are not analogous and that coherence models derived from plaid stimuli do not account for the data.
Motion detection and directional tuning.	A random dot pattern was presented which made two jumps in various directions with a variable delay between them. The jumps occurred at the frame transitions of a 3-frame apparent motion sequence. The variation in detectability with the directional difference and the temporal separation of the jumps allows us to make inferences about directional tuning and the temporal response of the motion detection mechanism. The detectability of a pair of jumps was highest when the delay between the jumps was short and the difference in the jump directions was small. In all cases the data were well fitted with a vector version of the speed energy model earlier proposed by Simpson. The model supposes that the two input vectors are temporally filtered, squared and integrated. Using the model, the autocorrelation function of the motion system's temporal impulse response can be found. This function shows the filter to be lowpass. According to the model, the shape of the threshold or d' locus as a function of the difference in the directions of the two jumps does not show the tuning of a motion mechanism. A tuned mechanism will respond well to a jump in its preferred direction, but less well to any other jump. Instead we show that the apparent tuning evident in the threshold and d' loci is due to the way in which the two jump vectors, each fully recovered, are combined in a vector sum.
The optimal motion stimulus: comments on Watson and Turano (1995)	Watson and Turano (Vision Research 1995;35:325-336) described experimental research aimed at determining the motion stimulus that the visual system detects best. They reported conflicting results in the determination of the optimal spatial size and they interpreted them as an effect of probability summation. They also reported disagreement with earlier results of Watson et al. (Nature 1983;302:419-422). This study shows (i) that probability summation is not responsible for those results and (ii) that they can be explained as a consequence of the method that was used to search for the optimal stimulus.
Discrimination of planar surface slant from texture: human and ideal observers compared.	In order to quantify the ability of the human visual system to use texture information to perceive planar surface orientation, I measured subjects' ability to discriminate planar surface slant (angle away from the fronto-parallel) for a variety of different types of textures and in a number of different viewing conditions. I measured the subjects' discrimination performance as a function of surface slant, field of view size and surface texture structure. I compared the subjects' performance with that of ideal observers derived for each of the available texture cues--texel position, scaling and foreshortening. The results can be summarized by four points: (i) subjects' discrimination performance improves dramatically with increasing surface slant, tracking the performance of the ideal observers; (ii) subjects can integrate texture information over a large range of visual angles; (iii) comparisons between human subjects and ideal observers show that the human observers rely to some degree on foreshortening information; and (iv) similar comparisons show that in using foreshortening information, subjects rely to some extent on a prior assumption of isotropy.
Does dark adaptation exacerbate diabetic retinopathy? Evidence and a linking hypothesis.	The paper reviews evidence that before any change in diabetics' fundi, changes occur to blood flow, ERG and visual functions. In the case of colour vision and contrast sensitivity, the changes are partially reversed by breathing oxygen, and therefore are the result of retinal hypoxia. There are also other evidences that hypoxia is a major factor in the development of diabetic retinopathy (DR). Therefore in diabetics with early retinopathy, but normal photopic vision, functional disturbance might appear in dark adaptation, since in such circumstances, (as shown by Linsenmeier and his colleagues) the already low retinal PO2 markedly decreases. This hypothesis has been tested and results consistent with the hypothesis (and with a number of older reports) have been obtained. The significance of this finding to early DR is discussed, and a mechanism suggested whereby prolonged periods of hypoxia during dark adaptation could generate changes in retinal capillaries. Such periods occur each night, and their elimination in diabetics could be therapeutic.
Time course of corticospinal excitability in reaction time and self-paced movements.	We used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to study the time course of corticospinal excitability before and after brisk thumb abduction movements, either in a simple reaction time (RT) paradigm or self-paced. Premovement increase in corticospinal excitability began about 20 msec earlier for self-paced compared with simple RT movements. For both simple RT and self-paced movements after electromyographic (EMG) offset, there was a first period of increased excitability from 0 to 100 msec, followed by a second period from 100 to 160 msec. Corticospinal excitability was decreased from about 500 to 1,000 msec after EMG offset for both types of movements. Our results show that motor preparation that begins 1.5 to 2 seconds before self-paced movement is not associated with increased corticospinal excitability. The first phase of increased corticospinal excitability after EMG offset may be due to activity of motor cortex neuron subthreshold for activating spinal motor neurons, and the second phase may reflect a subthreshold second agonist burst. The period of decreased corticospinal excitability after movement corresponds to the onset of event-related synchronization (ERS) of electroencephalographic signals in the 20-Hz band, and supports the hypothesis that ERS may be related to an inactive, idling state of the motor cortex.
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation: effect on peripheral nerve conduction, mechanical pain threshold, and tactile threshold in humans.	To investigate the effect of different transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) parameters on nerve conduction in the human superficial radial nerve and on peripheral mechanical pain threshold (MPT) and tactile threshold (TT), and to further the current knowledge of the neurophysiologic effects of TENS.
Long-latency response to transcranial magnetic stimulation in patients with hemifacial spasm.	We studied the long-latency response of the orbicularis oris muscle elicited with transcranial magnetic stimulation in patients with hemifacial spasm (HFS) and evaluated the excitability of the facial nucleus.
Central nervous system abnormalities in complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS): clinical and quantitative evidence of medullary dysfunction.	Sensory and motor abnormalities are common among patients with complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS). The purpose of the present study was to define and characterize these abnormalities and to develop a hypothesis regarding the area of the central nervous system from which they derive.
Bilateral detection thresholds in dextrals and sinistrals reflect the more sensitive side of the nose, which is not lateralized.	Several fundamental questions remain enigmatic concerning human olfactory sensitivity, including (i) whether detection threshold differences exist between the two sides of the nose (and, if so, whether such differences are influenced by handedness) and (ii) whether bilateral (i.e. binasal) stimulation leads to lower thresholds than unilateral stimulation (and, if so, whether the degree of facilitation is inversely related to general olfactory ability). In this study, and well-validated single staircase procedure was used to establish bilateral and unilateral detection thresholds for the cranial nerve I stimulant phenyl ethyl alcohol in 130 right- and 33 left-handed subjects. No differences in sensitivity between the left and right sides of the nose were observed in either group. Bilateral thresholds were lower, on average, than unilateral thresholds when the latter were categorized in terms of left and right nares. However, the bilateral thresholds did not differ significantly from those of the side of the nose with the lower threshold. Overall smell ability, as measured by the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test, did not interact with any of the test measures. These data imply that (i) the left and right sides of the nose do not systematically differ in detection threshold sensitivity for either dextrals or sinistrals and (ii) if central integration of left:right olfactory threshold sensitivity occurs, its effects do not exceed the function of the better side of the nose.
Assessing olfactory performance in an Old World primate, Macaca nemestrina.	The present study demonstrates that an operant conditioning paradigm, originally designed for assessing olfactory performance in a small New World primate, the squirrel monkey, can successfully be adapted for use with a large Old World primate, the pigtail macaque. Using a task designed to simulate olfactory-guided foraging behavior, based on multiple discrimination of simultaneously presented odor stimuli, we could show that Macaca nemestrina is able to learn to discriminate between objects on the basis of odor cues. Moreover, they could readily transfer to new S+ and S- stimuli and could remember the significance of previously learned odor stimuli even after a 3-week break. Furthermore, we could show that this method is suitable for obtaining reliable measures of olfactory sensitivity. The few modifications of the original method employed here did not affect essential features such as the mode of stimulus presentation (odorized paper strips attached to manipulation objects) and the choice criterion (opening or rejecting the odorized manipulation objects), thus for the first time enabling valid interspecific comparisons of olfactory capabilities between a catarrhine and a platyrrhine primate species. Our results indicate that M. nemestrina and Saimiri sciureus are similar with regard to several measures of olfactory performance, such as speed of initial task acquisition and ability to master transfer tasks as well as their sensitivity to a food-related odorant.
The olfactory loss that accompanies an HIV infection.	A number of studies have shown that HIV infection is associated with decreased olfactory ability. Additionally, it has been hypothesized that a reduced odorant identification may precede the advent of AIDS Dementia Complex (ADC). However, it is not known whether changes in olfactory ability are a manifestation of neurocognitive decline which may precede the appearance of AIDS Dementia Complex, damage to the peripheral olfactory system from opportunistic infection, or whether olfactory structures have a particular sensitivity to HIV. These issues were addressed in a cross-sectional study examining variability in the neuropsychological, neurological, otolaryngological, auditory, and olfactory status in HIV-positive subjects. A stepwise regression provided evidence that the ability to identify odorants was influenced by age, nasal structure and pathology, neurocognitive ability, and level of AIDS Dementia Complex. On the other hand, only nasal pathologies accounted for the variability in olfactory thresholds. These data suggest that identification and thresholds tests may reflect different olfactory pathologies. Additionally, these data suggest at least part of the decline in olfactory ability accompanying an HIV infection may be secondary to nasal pathologies. Because of their rapidly changing neurocognitive status, HIV-positive patients represent an excellent group in which to study the determinants of olfactory ability.
Increased absolute light sensitivity in Himalayan mice with cold-induced ocular pigmentation.	Controversy over the relationship between ocular pigmentation and absolute dark-adapted light sensitivity has persisted for over two decades. Previous electrophysiological experiments in hypopigmented mammals (mice, rats, rabbits) show increased thresholds in the dark-adapted state proportional to the deficit in ocular melanin. Animals with the least amount of ocular melanin have the most elevated thresholds. Dark-adapted thresholds in hypopigmented mice show similar threshold elevations in behavioral tests. The present study extends these findings to show that a specific increase in ocular pigmentation results in the converse effect, lowered absolute dark-adapted thresholds. The increase in ocular melanin was accomplished by keeping Himalayan mice in the cold (4 degrees C) for 6 weeks. Himalayan mice (C57BL/6J cH/cH) were compared to black mice (C57BL/6J (+/+)) and albino mice (C57BL/6J c2J/c2J) after 6 weeks at either 4 degrees C or 20 degrees C in 12-h cycling light (<1 cd/m2). The Himalayan mice that were kept in the cold exhibited a 44% increase in ocular melanin compared to Himalayan mice kept at room temperature. Cold rearing did not effect ocular melanin or visual thresholds in control animals (black mice = 10(-5.9) cd/m2 and albino mice = 10(-4.4) cd/m2). In contrast, the Himalayan mice maintained at 4 degrees C had thresholds of 10(-5.7) cd/m2 compared to 10(-5.1) cd/m2 for Himalayan mice kept at 20 degrees C. This represents compelling evidence of a direct relationship between ocular melanin concentration and absolute dark-adapted light sensitivity.
Zebrafish visual sensitivity is regulated by a circadian clock.	We have recently developed a behavioral assay, based on the escape response of fish to a threatening object, to analyze quantitatively the visual sensitivity of zebrafish. During the course of dark adaptation, we measure the threshold light intensity required to evoke an escape response. Under a normal light-dark (LD) cycle, thresholds for both the cone and rod systems are considerably lower in late afternoon hours than in early morning hours. Over a period of 24 h, zebrafish are most sensitive to visual stimuli prior to light off and least sensitive prior to light on. Under conditions of constant illumination, this rhythm of visual sensitivity persists for several days but is gradually lost. In constant light (LL), the rhythm persists 1-2 days; thereafter, visual thresholds at all times of the day converge at a level similar to thresholds measured in late afternoon hours in control animals. In constant darkness (DD). the rhythm persists at least 5 days; thereafter, it dampens to a level about a half-log unit less sensitive to that measured in the late afternoon hours in control animals. These data suggest that visual sensitivity in zebrafish is regulated by an endogenous circadian clock which functions to decrease the visual sensitivity.
Peripheral shift reduces visual sensitivity in cat geniculate neurones.	The sudden displacement of the retinal image during a saccade raises the visual threshold of human observers to foveal stimuli. The fall in visual sensitivity observed during this phenomenon, known as saccadic suppression, seems to occur very early in the visual processing chain. The lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) is a likely locus for the multiple retinal and extraretinal interactions occurring during saccadic eye movements, therefore we used the responses of relay cells of adult cats to simulate a psychophysical experiment. We first measured the responses of X and Y relay cells (27 X and 13 Y) to central spots of optimal size and different contrasts. The spots were presented either alone or time locked with the rapid movement of a large, high-contrast peripheral pattern, referred to as shift. We measured the percentage of trials on which the relay cell fired more spikes when the spot (contrast: 0.03-1.0) was present than when it was absent. In experiments with human observers the task was to indicate, by a keypress, which of two otherwise identical temporal intervals contained the spot. The shift reduces the sensitivity (raises the contrast threshold) of neurones in the cat relay cells to brief, stationary targets presented to the receptive-field center. The suppression of visual sensitivity is significantly greater in Y cells than in X cells (average sensitivity ratios 5.6 +/- 5.4 in Y cells, 1.59 +/- 0.9 in X cells: P < 0.001, U test). The shift also reduces the sensitivity of human observers to the same target. This suggests that the LGN is a potential locus for the modulation of visual responses that leads to saccadic suppression.
Threshold fluctuations on temporally modulated backgrounds: a possible physiological explanation based upon a recent computational model.	When a temporally fluctuating background is rapidly modulated (e.g. 30 Hz), the threshold variation of a superimposed flash (the probe) is approximately sinusoidal and in phase with the stimulus. But, with low rates of sinusoidal modulation (e.g. 1 Hz), the threshold variation is distinctly nonsinusoidal in shape. The bases of these aspects of the data, as well as an unmodulated, dc, threshold elevation, are poorly understood. Here 30-Hz and 1-Hz conditions are simulated using a new model of light adaptation (Wilson, 1997). By assuming that the OFF pathway is twice as sensitive as the ON pathway, the model correctly captured the key aspects of both conditions. The results suggest that the 1-Hz data are mediated by a mixture of ON and OFF pathways while the 30-Hz data are largely mediated by the OFF pathway. The probe thresholds on the 30-Hz background appear approximately sinusoidal and approximately in phase with the background stimulus. A number of factors contribute to this deceptively simple observation.
Consistent repeated M- and H-Wave recording in the hind limb of rats.	Sensory and motor conduction velocities calculated from latencies of H reflexes and M waves in rat hind limbs have been used to assess experimental peripheral neuropathy. Amplitudes and latencies vary with recording location, and are seldom assessed directly. Using subcutaneous electrodes on the foot, we recorded consistent M waves and H reflexes while stimulating the sciatic or tibial nerve. The late wave disappeared when dorsal roots were cut, verifying that it was an H reflex. However, stimulus-response characteristics differed from those in humans: (a) the threshold was often higher than for M waves; (b) stimulus intensity eliciting a maximum H-reflex amplitude (Hmax) was often higher than adequate for a maximum M-wave amplitude; and (c) the amplitudes of H reflexes stimulated with intensities supramaximal for the M wave were over 90% of Hmax. H reflexes and M waves recorded repeatedly in rats can be useful in assessing sensory and motor function in models of neuropathy, using amplitudes as well as conduction velocities.
Relation of olfactory event-related potentials to changes in stimulus concentration.	The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of odorant concentration on the olfactory event-related potential (OERP).
Efficacy of vibration, electric current and thermal perception tests in diagnosis of hand-arm vibration syndrome.	Vibration perception test is usually proposed as a useful tool for quantitative assessment of neurological disturbances induced by hand-arm vibration syndrome (HAVS). The increased mean vibration perception threshold (VPT) is an early manifestation of this syndrome. However, we have identified a group of exposed subjects with normal VPT who showed electric current and/or thermal sensitivity impairment. The use of three tests instead of a single vibration test increased by 27% the number of persons with detected quantitative skin sensory disorders. The intensity of quantitative disorders of vibration and electric current sensitivity was closely related to the duration of vibration exposure. The thermal perception was diminished in subjects working for a longer period of time, but there was no relationship between intensity of disorders and the duration of exposure. In an early stage of hand-arm vibration syndrome (prevention of HAVS) the use of three tests helps to identify a larger number of workers at risk who should undergo thorough diagnostic examinations. In our study the proportion of identified workers increased from 27% (32 subjects with vibration sensory impairment) to 45% (53 persons with disorders detected in one, two or even three tests).
Use of image-based information in judgments of surface-reflectance properties.	We examined how well we can recover surface-reflectance properties from shading patterns under changes in surface shape. The stimulus we used was a square surface modulated in depth by a low-pass-filtered random field and rendered by the Phong illumination model [Commun. ACM 18, 311 (1975)]. Two different surface images (target and match) were presented side by side, with either the viewing direction or the surface-normal direction rotating around the horizontal axis. The target shape was manipulated by changing the spatial spectrum, and the target reflectance was manipulated by changing the diffuse-reflection coefficient and the specular-reflection exponent (shininess) of the Phong model. The shape parameters of the match stimulus were fixed, but its reflectance parameters were under the control of subjects, who had to make the apparent reflectance of the two surfaces as similar as possible. The results showed that the constant error (difference between simulated and matched values) was large except when the two surfaces had the same shape parameters or when they differed only in scale. The pattern of the constant errors and response variabilities suggests that the judgments of the subjects were based on the similarity of the luminance histogram of the surface image. Our results demonstrate a limitation of surface-reflectance constancy for changes in shape and the importance of image-based information in reflectance judgments. The results are discussed in relation to previous studies that showed effects of spatial layout on surface-reflectance perception.
Color and lightness constancy in different perceptual tasks.	Color and lightness constancy with respect to changing illumination was studied with three different perceptual tasks: ranking of colored papers according (1) to their lightness and (2) to their chromatic similarity in photopic, mesopic, and scotopic states of adaptation, and (3) recognition of remembered colored papers after changes of illumination in photopic vision. Constancy was found in the second task, only. Excitations of light receptors and luminance channels were computed to simulate the empirical rank orders. Results of the first task can be predicted with the hypothesis that luminance channels are activated, if lightness is asked for. Sequences arranged with respect to chromatic similarity were found independent of the illuminant spectra, even if the calculated rank orders of cone excitation were changed in the altered illumination.
A new tactile gnosis instrument in sensibility testing.	A new quantitative test instrument for the assessment of tactile gnosis--the ability to identify shapes and textures without vision--is introduced. Introductory investigations of validity and reliability are presented. Fifty-four patients (60 hands) with carpal tunnel syndrome, vibration-induced neuropathy, or nerve repair at distal forearm level, and a matched asymptomatic control group were initially examined. After establishing the cut-off limit for normal tactile gnosis, sensitivity and specificity were calculated to determine the discriminative power of the new instrument. A high sensitivity (1.0) of the new shape/texture identification test was found in the group of patients with nerve repair. Given a cut-off limit, the sensitivity was lower in the groups with vibration-induced neuropathy and carpal tunnel syndrome (0.65 and 0.40, respectively), and the specificity of the test was 0.90 to 0.95. In a second step, a group of 52 patients who had had nerve repair at the distal forearm level were examined. Test-retest reliability was good, with a weighted kappa value of 0.79 to 0.81. Good reliability was also shown in the internal consistency of test items, with a Cronbach alpha value of 0.78. These introductory results indicate that the new shape/texture identification test can be useful in the assessment of tactile gnosis.
Spatio-temporal subthreshold receptive fields in the vibrissa representation of rat primary somatosensory cortex.	Spatio-temporal subthreshold receptive fields in the vibrissa representation of rat primary somatosensory cortex. J. Neurophysiol. 80: 2882-2892, 1998. Whole cell recordings of synaptic responses evoked by deflection of individual vibrissa were obtained from neurons within adult rat primary somatosensory cortex. To define the spatial and temporal properties of subthreshold receptive fields, the spread, amplitude, latency to onset, rise time to half peak amplitude, and the balance of excitation and inhibition of subthreshold input were quantified. The convergence of information onto single neurons was found to be extensive: inputs were consistently evoked by vibrissa one- and two-away from the vibrissa that evoked the largest response (the "primary vibrissa"). Latency to onset, rise time, and the incidence and strength of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) varied as a function of position within the receptive field and the strength of evoked excitatory input. Nonprimary vibrissae evoked smaller amplitude subthreshold responses [primary vibrissa, 9.1 +/- 0.84 (SE) mV, n = 14; 1-away, 5. 1 +/- 0.5 mV, n = 38; 2-away, 3.7 +/- 0.59 mV, n = 22; 3-away, 1.3 +/- 0.70 mV, n = 8] with longer latencies (primary vibrissa, 10.8 +/- 0.80 ms; 1-away, 15.0 +/- 1.2 ms; 2-away, 15.7 +/- 2.0 ms). Rise times were significantly faster for inputs that could evoke action potential responses (suprathreshold, 4.1 +/- 1.3 ms, n = 8; subthreshold, 12.4 +/- 1.5 ms, n = 61). In a subset of cells, sensory evoked IPSPs were examined by deflecting vibrissa during injection of hyperpolarizing and depolarizing current. The strongest IPSPs were evoked by the primary vibrissa (n = 5/5), but smaller IPSPs also were evoked by nonprimary vibrissae (n = 8/13). Inhibition peaked by 10-20 ms after the onset of the fastest excitatory input to the cortex. This pattern of inhibitory activity led to a functional reversal of the center of the receptive field and to suppression of later-arriving and slower-rising nonprimary inputs. Together, these data demonstrate that subthreshold receptive fields are on average large, and the spatio-temporal dynamics of these receptive fields vary as a function of position within the receptive field and strength of excitatory input. These findings constrain models of suprathreshold receptive field generation, multivibrissa interactions, and cortical plasticity.
Temporal inhibition in character identification.	Models of information processing tasks such as character identification often do not consider the nature of the initial sensory representation from which task-relevant information is extracted. An important component of this representation is temporal inhibition, in which the response to a stimulus may inhibit, or in some cases facilitate, processing of subsequent stimuli. Three experiments demonstrate the existence of temporal inhibitory processes in information processing tasks such as character identification and digit recall. An existing information processing model is extended to account for these effects, based in part on models from the detection literature. These experiments also discriminate between candidate neural mechanisms of the temporal inhibition. Implications for the transient deficit theory of dyslexia are discussed.
Characterization of human joint proprioception by means of a threshold hunting paradigm.	A method has been developed to measure the proprioceptive performance of movement detection in human joints, with the threshold hunting paradigm commonly used in other sensory modalities. Methods applied in former studies regarding movement detection were very time consuming (hours), making them not applicable to patients. Using the threshold hunting paradigm, the subject changes the parameter value continuously around the threshold producing a threshold hunting curve, which itself might be valuable for investigation of movement detection performance. The method presented here, is very quick compared to other studies in this field, especially when velocity is hunted and the threshold values are very low. The threshold parameter value is stable since there is a control at any time over the subject's stimulus perception. Furthermore, a Monte Carlo simulation showed that hunting curves can clearly be distinguished from guessing. Also reliability is given. All these points allow to use the method to evaluate the proprioceptive performance of a single individual. Considering the results, the method described may be useful for basic and clinical investigations regarding the proprioceptive performance limits of movement detection aspects.
Correlation of quantitative tests of nerve and target organ dysfunction with skin immunohistology in leprosy.	Loss of nociception and hypohidrosis in skin are hallmarks of leprosy, attributed to early invasion by Mycobacterium leprae of Schwann cells related to unmyelinated nerve fibres. We have studied skin lesions and contralateral clinically unaffected skin in 28 patients across the leprosy spectrum with a range of selective quantitative sensory and autonomic tests, prior to biopsy of both sites. Unaffected sites showed normal skin innervation, when antibodies to the pan-neuronal marker PGP (protein gene product) 9.5 were used, with the exception of intraepidermal fibres which were not detected in the majority of cases. Elevation of thermal thresholds and reduced sensory axon-reflex flare responses in affected skin correlated with decreased nerve fibres in the subepidermis, e.g. axon-reflex flux units (means+/-SEM) for no detectable innervation; decreased innervation; and clinically unaffected skin, were 23+/-3.1; 41.2+/-7.3; and 84.5+/-4.0, respectively. Reduced nicotine-induced axon-reflex sweating was correlated with decreased innervation of sweat glands. Where methacholine-induced direct activation of sweat glands was affected, there was inflammatory infiltrate and loss of sweat gland structure. This study demonstrates a correlation between selective nerve dysfunction on clinical tests and morphological changes in skin, irrespective of the type of leprosy, and is the first to show that loss of sweating in leprosy may result either from decreased innervation and/or involvement of the sweat glands. The findings have implications for the selection and monitoring of patients with leprosy in clinical trials which aim to restore cutaneous function.
Conditioning effect on the long latency potentials in the lower limb to transcranial magnetic stimulation.	We used an electrical conditioning stimulation followed by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to facilitate the occurrence of long latency potentials (LLPs) in order to study the relationship between primary motor evoked potentials (MEPs) and LLPs in the lower limbs.
