GRK2: a novel cell-specific regulator of severity and duration of inflammatory pain.	Chronic pain associated with inflammation is a common clinical problem, and the underlying mechanisms have only begun to be unraveled. GRK2 regulates cellular signaling by promoting G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) desensitization and direct interaction with downstream kinases including p38. The aim of this study was to determine the contribution of GRK2 to regulation of inflammatory pain and to unravel the underlying mechanism. GRK2(+/-) mice with an approximately 50% reduction in GRK2 developed increased and markedly prolonged thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia after carrageenan-induced paw inflammation or after intraplantar injection of the GPCR-binding chemokine CCL3. The effect of reduced GRK2 in specific cells was investigated using Cre-Lox technology. Carrageenan- or CCL3-induced hyperalgesia was increased but not prolonged in mice with decreased GRK2 only in Na(v)1.8 nociceptors. In vitro, reduced neuronal GRK2 enhanced CCL3-induced TRPV1 sensitization. In vivo, CCL3-induced acute hyperalgesia in GRK2(+/-) mice was mediated via TRPV1. Reduced GRK2 in microglia/monocytes only was required and sufficient to transform acute carrageenan- or CCL3-induced hyperalgesia into chronic hyperalgesia. Chronic hyperalgesia in GRK2(+/-) mice was associated with ongoing microglial activation and increased phospho-p38 and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) in the spinal cord. Inhibition of spinal cord microglial, p38, or TNF-alpha activity by intrathecal administration of specific inhibitors reversed ongoing hyperalgesia in GRK2(+/-) mice. Microglia/macrophage GRK2 expression was reduced in the lumbar ipsilateral spinal cord during neuropathic pain, underlining the pathophysiological relevance of microglial GRK2. Thus, we identified completely novel cell-specific roles of GRK2 in regulating acute and chronic inflammatory hyperalgesia.
A caspase cascade regulating developmental axon degeneration.	Axon degeneration initiated by trophic factor withdrawal shares many features with programmed cell death, but many prior studies discounted a role for caspases in this process, particularly Caspase-3. Recently, Caspase-6 was implicated based on pharmacological and knockdown evidence, and we report here that genetic deletion of Caspase-6 indeed provides partial protection from degeneration. However, we find at a biochemical level that Caspase-6 is activated effectively only by Caspase-3 but not other "upstream" caspases, prompting us to revisit the role of Caspase-3. In vitro, we show that genetic deletion of Caspase-3 is fully protective against sensory axon degeneration initiated by trophic factor withdrawal, but not injury-induced Wallerian degeneration, and we define a biochemical cascade from prosurvival Bcl2 family regulators to Caspase-9, then Caspase-3, and then Caspase-6. Only low levels of active Caspase-3 appear to be required, helping explain why its critical role has been obscured in prior studies. In vivo, Caspase-3 and Caspase-6-knockout mice show a delay in developmental pruning of retinocollicular axons, thereby implicating both Caspase-3 and Caspase-6 in axon degeneration that occurs as a part of normal development.
Cysteine proteinase-1 and cut protein isoform control dendritic innervation of two distinct sensory fields by a single neuron.	Dendrites often exhibit structural changes in response to local inputs. Although mechanisms that pattern and maintain dendritic arbors are becoming clearer, processes regulating regrowth, during context-dependent plasticity or after injury, remain poorly understood. We found that a class of Drosophila sensory neurons, through complete pruning and regeneration, can elaborate two distinct dendritic trees, innervating independent sensory fields. An expression screen identified Cysteine proteinase-1 (Cp1) as a critical regulator of this process. Unlike known ecdysone effectors, Cp1-mutant ddaC neurons pruned larval dendrites normally but failed to regrow adult dendrites. Cp1 expression was upregulated/concentrated in the nucleus during metamorphosis, controlling production of a truncated Cut homeodomain transcription factor. This truncated Cut, but not the full-length protein, allowed Cp1-mutant ddaC neurons to regenerate higher-order adult dendrites. These results identify a molecular pathway needed for dendrite regrowth after pruning, which allows the same neuron to innervate distinct sensory fields. 
Cholinesterase activity of lamellated sensory corpuscles in the rat lip.	Non-specific cholinesterase (ChE) activity was demonstrated in lamellated sensory corpuscles of the rat lip by light and electron microscopy using Karnovsky and Roots' method. ChE activity was present in the interlamellar spaces between neighbouring lamellae as well as in the peri-axonal space between axon terminals and their adjacent lamellae. Reaction products were also deposited in some caveolae of the lamellar cell plasma membrane, and in the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum as well as in the nuclear envelope of lamellar cell bodies. No reaction products were detected within the axon terminals. The findings show that the lamellated corpuscles in the rat lip, like other mechanoreceptors, have intense ChE activity which is probably synthesized in lamellar cells and released into the intercellular spaces. That ChE activity is particularly strong in mechanoreceptors composed of lamellar cells suggests that this enzyme would play an important role in function and/or maintenance of such mechanoreceptive corpuscles.
Adenosine triphosphatases in electroreceptor organs (ampullary organs and mormyromasts) of Gnathonemus petersii Mormyridae.	Cytochemical techniques were used for the light and electron microscopical localization of ATPase in the ampullary organ and the mormyromast, both cutaneous electroreceptors in Gnathonemus petersii (Mormyridae). At the right microscope level, two different techniques gave the same results, namely that high concentrations of the enzyme are present in the mormyromast and certain epidermal cells and weak concentrations in the ampullary organ. The enzyme was localized at the ultrastructural level using the lead capture method. It was found in the cytoplasm of type III accessory cells of the ampullary organ, in the apical cytoplasm of SC1 sensory cells and the accessory cells surrounding them and on the membrane of the SC2 sensory cells of the mormyromast. The ATPase of these various cells was inhibited by p-chloromercuribenzoate. The enzyme in the mormyromast SC1 and their accessory cells was not dependent on Mg2+ ions. However, that in the type III accessory cells of the ampullary organ and in the SC2 of the mormyromast was strictly dependent on Mg2+. In addition, there was a Ca2+-dependent ATPase in the microvilli of the SC2 of certain mormyromasts.
The morpho-functional organization of the bovine olfactory epithelium.	The specifity of morphological organization of the bovine olfactory organ was studied. Alkaline phosphatase was examinated in the bull's olfactory mucosa receptor cells. By a cytochemical method its activity was found to be a marker of neurogenesis and differentiation of the receptor cells. In this reaction it was detected the specificity of secretion process of olfactory mucus in the bovine olfactory organ.
