Brain areas in abyssal demersal fishes.	Four areas of the brain which receive primary projections from chemical senses ([1] olfactory bulb, [2] gustatory area including facial and vagal lobes), the eye ([3] optic tectum), and mechanosensory, and-hair-cell based systems i.e. the lateral line, vestibular and auditory systems ([4] trigeminal and octavolateral regions) have been studied and relative size differences used to make deductions on the sensory preferences of 35 fish species living on or near the bottom of the deep sea. Furthermore the relative volumes of the telencephalon and the corpus cerebelli were determined. Two evaluation modes were applied: (1) the relative mean of each system was calculated and species with above-average areas identified; (2) a cluster analysis established multivariate correlations among the sensory systems. The diversity of sensory brain areas in this population of fish suggests that the benthic and epibenthic environment of the abyss presents a rich sensory environment. Vision seems to be the single most important sense suggesting the presence of relevant bioluminescent stimuli. However, in combination the chemical senses, smell and taste, surpass the visual system; most prominent among them is olfaction. The trigeminal/octavolateral area indicating the role of lateral line input and possibly audition is also well represented, but only in association with other sensory modalities. A large volume telencephalon was often observed in combination with a prominent olfactory system, whereas cerebella of unusually large sizes occurred in species with above-average visual, hair-cell based, but also olfactory systems, confirming their role as multimodal sensorimotor coordination centers. In several species the predictions derived from the volumetric brain analyses were confirmed by earlier observations of stomach content and data obtained by baited cameras.
Circadian rhythm in olfactory response in the antennae controlled by the optic lobe in the cockroach.	The olfactory response in antennae of the cockroach, Leucophaea maderae, was investigated by measuring electroantennograms (EAGs) in restrained animals. The amplitude of the EAG response to pulses of ethyl acetate, octanol, or fenchone, exhibited a robust, light entrained, circadian rhythm that persisted at least 14 days in constant darkness. Dilution-response curves measured at the peak and trough of the rhythm indicated there was a 10-fold change in sensitivity. The EAG rhythm was abolished by severing the optic tracts, while entrainment was abolished by ablation of the compound eyes. The results indicate that the circadian system modulates olfactory sensitivity in the antennae and that the rhythm is driven by a circadian pacemaker in the optic lobes that is entrained by photoreceptors in the compound eyes.
Functionally distinct subdivisions of the macroglomerular complex in the antennal lobe of the male sphinx moth Manduca sexta.	Each antennal lobe in the brain of a male moth has a distinctive neuropil structure, the macroglomerular complex (MGC), which is specialized for primary processing of information about the conspecific female sex-pheromone blend. Olfactory interneurons with dendritic arborizations in the MGC were examined by means of tandem intracellular recording and staining with Lucifer Yellow. Neurons that responded selectively to stimulation of the antenna with the major pheromone component, (E,Z)-10,12-hexadecadienal, had arborizations that were restricted to a toroidal subdivision (the "toroid") of the MGC. Similarly, neurons that responded selectively to antennal stimulation with (E,Z)-11,13-pentadecadienal, a more stable mimic of a second essential but chemically unstable pheromone component, (E,E,Z)-10,12,14-hexadecatrienal, had arborizations confined to a globular subdivision (the "cumulus") of the MGC situated more proximally to the antennal nerve input. One neuron that responded to both of these stimuli clearly had arborizations in both subdivisions of the MGC. These anatomically distinct subdivisions of the MGC thus appear also to be functionally separate regions of pheromone-processing neuropil.
Serotonin-immunoreactive neurons in scorpion pectine neuropils: similarities to insect and crustacean primary olfactory centres?	The pectines of scorpions are a single pair of mechano- and chemosensory appendages located ventrally behind the most posterior pair of walking legs. They are used for probing the substrate in behaviours such as prey tracking and courtship. The sensory afferents on the pectines supply large segmental neuropils with a conspicuous glomerular structure. The pectine neuropils thus bear similarities to insect and crustacean deutocerebral chemosensory centres associated with the antennae, but they also possess idiosyncratic features. One characteristic property of many insect and decapod crustacean olfactory neuropils is their innervation by single, or very few, large serotonergic (inter-) neurons. This feature, among others, has been proposed to support homology of the olfactory lobes in the two arthropod groups. A possible serotonergic innervation of the scorpion pectine neuropils has not yet been studied, despite its apparent diagnostic and functional importance. We thus examined serotonin-immunoreactivity in the pectine neuropils of Androctonus australis and Pandinus imperator. Both scorpion species yielded similar results. The periphery of the neuropil and the matrix between the glomeruli are supplied by a dense network of serotonin-immunoreactive (5-HT-ir) arborisations and varicosities, while the glomeruli themselves are mostly free of 5-HT-ir fibres. The 5-HT-ir supply of the pectine neuropils has two origins. The first is a pair of neurons on each body side, up to 30 μm in diameter and thus slightly larger than the surrounding somata. These cell bodies are and associated with the neuromeres of the genital and pectine segments. The situation is reminiscent of the 5-HT supply of insect and crustacean olfactory and antennal neuropils. The second 5-HT innervation of the pectine neuropils is from a group of some 10-20 ipsilateral neuronal somata of slightly smaller size (15-20 μm). These are part of a much larger 5-HT-ir group comprising 70-90 somata. The whole group is located more anteriorly than the single soma mentioned above, and associated with the neuromere of the last (4th) walking leg. When compared to data from other arthropods, our findings may suggest that glomerular organisation is an ancestral feature of primary chemosensory centres innervated by arthropod appendages. This idea needs further scrutiny, although supporting evidence may have been overlooked previously, due to the small size of chemosensory neuropils in walking legs and in reduced segmental appendages.
The elasmobranch spiracular organ. II. Physiological studies.	The spiracular sense organs of the little skate, Raja erinacea, and the smooth dogfish, Mustelus canis, respond to movements of the hyomandibula-cranial joint. Afferent activity was recorded from the spiracular organ nerve in isolated preparations consisting of at least part of the cranium, the hyomandibula, and the spiracular organ and nerve. Afferents are excited by hyomandibular flexion at its joint with the cranium. Single unit recordings in the little skate revealed a single class of units that were slowly adapting, and had a regular firing pattern. Single unit firing rate increased up to about 70 spikes/s during hyomandibular flexion from a spontaneous rate at rest of 15-20 spikes/s, and could often be silenced by hyomandibular extension. The direction of excitation is consistent with the orientation of the hair cell ciliary bundles observed in morphological studies (Barry et al. 1988). Local deformations of the cupula are sufficient to excite or inhibit primary afferent firing, and volume changes in the spiracular organ as a whole are not necessary. The spiracular organs are relatively insensitive to electrical stimuli, vibration, or water movement. In conclusion, the spiracular organ functions as a sensitive joint receptor.
Model of the bicercal mechanism of constant direction perception of a mechano-acoustic signal in the insect]	Model of signal processing in mechano-acoustical cercal system of insects is described in which the invariance of the perceived signal direction with respect to the positions of sense organs (cerci) is achieved due to connections of four central neurons with certain receptor groups on both cerci. The data published earlier suggest that the monocercal constancy mechanism for invariant estimation of signal direction is based on a proper change in the weights of receptoral inputs to the central neurons in accordance with the position of each cercus. In contrast with it the bicercal constancy mechanism discussed in this paper does not imply either any regulation of receptoral inputs to the central neurons or some other utilization of information about the position of sense organs at the moment of signal perception. The model is based on two properties of the cercal system: on each cercus there are receptors with optimal directions of stimulation which are parallel and perpendicular to the cercus axis; two cerci usually occupy symmetrical positions relative to the insect body. Signal processing in the proposed neural circuit is equivalent to the signal direction estimation by projecting the vector of velocity on the two stable basic directions whose orientations do not change when symmetrical changes in cercus positions occur.
The cercal receptor system of the praying mantid, Archimantis brunneriana Sauss. II. Cercal nerve structure and projection and electrophysiological responses of the individual receptors.	The bilaterally paired cercal nerves of Archimantis brunneriana Sauss. leave the terminal ganglion posteriorly and then turn dorsally through muscles at the rear of the abdomen to enter the cerci, where each splits into two branches; successive branchings occur further distally in each cercus. In the distal nerve branches large axons tend to be grouped together. The cercal nerves are heavily wrapped in glial sheaths. Cobalt backfills of the cercal nerve reveal a projection which enters the ganglion at approximately 30 degrees to the midline and then turns parallel to it. Most of the projection remains ipsilateral but bundles of axons approach or cross the midline in 6-8 places. At the anterior end of the ganglion there are strong projections both laterally and medially. In the posterior half of the ganglion fibers run ventrally to surround two glomeruli and there is a dorsal projection in the anterior half of the ganglion. There is a strong projection anteriorly into the ventral nerve cord. The electrophysiological responses of single cercal receptors to pulses of wind were recorded in the cercal nerve or terminal ganglion. These receptors, presumed to innervate filiform hairs, were then filled with Lucifer Yellow. All had ipsilateral projections. Most receptors showed little adaptation to stimuli as long as 5 seconds.
Formation of new sensory cells in deafferented tuberous organs of the gymnotid fish Eigenmannia virescens.	The cutaneous electroreceptor "tuberous organs" of the lateral line system of Eigenmannia virescens were studied at light and electron microscopic levels with immunohistochemical and autoradiographic techniques after sectioning of the posterior branch of the lateral line nerve. After deafferentation total degeneration of the sensory cells was observed. The accessory cells of the basal platform, however, remain intact and undergo a process of differentiation. The cytoplasms and nuclei of these cells increase in volume, and the nuclei incorporate tritiated thymidine. In control tuberous organs with intact innervation, tritiated thymidine is absorbed by the nuclei of the elongated epidermal cells surrounding the sensory cavity. The newly formed sensory cells, but not those of the intact organs, are substance P immunoreactive. They have synaptic bars surrounded by vesicles and their free membrane surface is covered with microvilli. The new sensory cells are fully differentiated 35 days after the lateral line was cut. These results demonstrate that in the tuberous organs of E. virescens new sensory cells are formed in the absence of an innervation.
Ramification pattern and ultrastructural characteristics of the serotonin-immunoreactive neuron in the antennal lobe of the moth Manduca sexta: a laser scanning confocal and electron microscopic study.	The two antennal lobes, the primary olfactory centers of the brain, of the moth Manduca sexta each contain one neuron that displays serotonin immunoreactivity. The neuron projects out of the antennal lobe and sends branches into ipsi- and contralateral protocerebral areas. An axon-like process extends from the contralateral protocerebrum to, and terminates in, the contralateral antennal lobe. In order to begin to investigate the possible role of this unique neuron in olfactory information processing, we have used laser scanning confocal microscopic and electron microscopic immunocytochemical techniques to study the ramification pattern, ultrastructural characteristics, and synaptic connections of the neuron in the antennal lobes of female adult Manduca sexta. The neuron ramifies extensively in the antennal lobe contralateral to the cell body. The ramifications, mainly in the base and center of each glomerulus, do not overlap with those of the sensory axons from the antenna. This finding suggests that the serotonin-immunoreactive neuron may not receive direct input from sensory neurons, and that it may modulate the activity of the neurons of the antennal lobe rather than that of the sensory neurons. In the electron microscope, the neuron exhibits large dense-cored vesicles and small, clear round vesicles. In the antennal lobe ipsilateral to the cell body, the primary neurite of the serotonin-immunoreactive neuron is unbranched and lacks detectable synaptic connections. The ramifications in the contralateral antennal lobe, however, participate in synaptic connections. At very low frequency, contralateral branches form synapses onto unlabeled processes and also receive synapses from unidentified neurons in the glomeruli, indicating that the neuron may participate directly in synaptic processing of olfactory information. The high ratio of output to input synapses made by the serotonin-immunoreactive processes in the contralateral antennal lobe is consistent with the idea that this neuron may receive synaptic input via its bilateral branches in the protocerebrum and then send information to the contralateral antennal lobe where the neuron may exert feedback or modulatory influences on olfactory information processing in the glomeruli.
