Morphological and ultrastructural changes in the rat kidney after experimental sepsis]	Experimental sepsis was investigated in 42 male white Wistar rats. The animals were divided into 7 equal groups. Suspended E. coli cells (2 x 10(7) per 100 g body weight) were injected into the tail vein in groups I-VI, group VII served as a control group. The rats were sacrificed with cervical dislocation at different times after injection: in 45 min (group I), 2 h (group II), 6 h (group III), 24 h (group IV), 48 h (group V), and 120 h (group VI). Samples of kidneys were taken and embedded in paraffin and EPON-812 for histological and electron microscopical evaluation, respectively.
Endothelin-converting enzyme-1-mediated signaling in adult rat ventricular myocyte contractility and apoptosis during sepsis.	We hypothesized that modulation of endothelin-converting enzyme-1 (ECE-1) activity would affect phosphorylation of p38-mitogen activated protein kinase (p38-MAPK) and potentiate apoptosis in adult rat ventricular myocytes (ARVMs) during sepsis. The activity of ECE-1 in ARVMs was altered by increasing the substrate availability for ECE-1 by exogenous administration of bigendothelin-1 (bigET-1, 100 nM) and by inhibiting ECE-1 using FR901533 (10 microM) for 24-h. FR901533 significantly decreased the concentration of ET-1 in both sham and sepsis groups. FR901533 decreased p38-MAPK phosphorylation in sepsis but not in sham group. BigET-1 upregulated p38-MAPK phosphorylation, produced hypertrophy, decreased cell viability and reversed FR901533-induced down-regulation of p38-MAPK phosphorylation in both groups. Although, FR901533 did not affect cell cross-sectional area, it significantly reduced the viability of ARVM in both groups. The peak shortening of sham ARVMs was elevated by bigET-1, FR901533 and pretreatment with FR901533 followed by bigET-1. However, the contractility of septic ARVMs was not altered by either bigET-1 or FR901533 treatments per se. Septic ARVM exhibited significantly increased caspase-3 activity at 12 and 24-h. Pretreatment with FR901533 significantly elevated caspase-3 activity in both sham and sepsis group. The data demonstrated that bigET-1-induced hypertrophy in septic ARVM correlates with an ECE-1 dependent-activation of p38-MAPK. The results suggest that non-responsiveness of ARVM to bigET-1 is due to ECE-1 dependent apoptosis. We concluded that ECE-1 may play a crucial role in ARVM dysfunction via increased caspase-3 activity and p38-MAPK phosphorylation during sepsis.
Stomach wall abscess--endoscopic diagnosis and therapeutic possibilities]	This is a case report of a rare gastric wall abscess of a 70 year-old woman who came to hospital with non-characteristic pain in the upper abdomen. The diagnosis was made by endoscopy. After endosonography the patient was treated by endoscopic drainage, antibiotics and abstinence of food. Two weeks later the abscess had healed. Subsequently recurrent arterial emboli occurred in the left leg leading to several operations. Two months after hospitalisation the woman died as a result of circulation failure induced by septicaemia. Surprisingly, post mortem examination showed endocarditis of the mitral valve with septical metastases in multiple organs. A review of the literature is given and etiology and pathogenesis of the gastric wall abscess are reviewed. The surgical treatment is compared with endoscopic therapy.
Sepsis and pathophysiology of anthrax in a nonhuman primate model.	Studies that define natural responses to bacterial sepsis assumed new relevance after the lethal bioterrorist attacks with Bacillus anthracis (anthrax), a spore-forming, toxigenic gram-positive bacillus. Considerable effort has focused on identifying adjunctive therapeutics and vaccines to prevent future deaths, but translation of promising compounds into the clinical setting necessitates an animal model that recapitulates responses observed in humans. Here we describe a nonhuman primate (Papio c. cynocephalus) model of B. anthracis infection using infusion of toxigenic B. anthracis Sterne 34F2 bacteria (5 x 10(5) to 6.5 x 10(9) CFU/kg). Similar to that seen in human patients, we observed changes in vascular permeability, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and systemic inflammation. The lung was a primary target organ with serosanguinous pleural effusions, intra-alveolar edema, and hemorrhagic lesions. This animal model reveals that a fatal outcome is dominated by the host septic response, thereby providing important insights into approaches for treatment and prevention of anthrax in humans.
Necrotizing enterocolitis in a 850 gram infant receiving sorbitol-free sodium polystyrene sulfonate (Kayexalate): clinical and histopathologic findings.	We report a 27-week, 850 g infant with severe Streptococcus group B sepsis and life-threatening hyperkalemia due to progressive anuria. On the fourth day of life, after he failed treatment with diuretics, salbutamol, insulin, calcium gluconate and sodium bicarbonate, he was treated with sorbitol-free Kayexalate enemas. Potassium level slowly decreased from 9.2 mmol/l to normal level along with a recovery of normal urine output. On the 11th day of life, clinical and radiological signs of a perforated necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) occurred and the patient required surgical intestinal resection. Histologic examination of the ileum specimen revealed areas of necrosis with fibrosis and giant cell reaction to a nonpolarizable material consistent with sodium polystyrene sulfonate. Usually, Kayexalate is suspended in hyperosmolar sorbitol solutions and the elevated osmolarity seems to be responsible for hemorrhagic colitis, transmural necrosis and definitely NEC. Our case report shows that Kayexalate per se, and not necessarily suspended in sorbitol, can lead to gastrointestinal tract complications and NEC in preterm infants.
Modulating neutrophil apoptosis.	Polymorphonuclear neutrophils are short-lived phagocytic cells that serve as cardinal early cellular effectors of innate immunity. Both oxidative and non-oxidative mechanisms contribute to microbial killing by the neutrophil. Neutrophil defence mechanisms are potent but non-specific, with the result that inadvertent injury to host tissues commonly accompanies the activation of a neutrophil mediated response; this bystander injury has been implicated in the tissue injury of sepsis. The capacity for neutrophils to cause injury to host tissues is attenuated by the relatively short in vivo lifespan of the neutrophil, a consequence of a constitutively expressed program of apoptosis. That program can be inhibited, and neutrophil survival prolonged, through the interaction of the neutrophil with a variety of mediators of both microbial and host origin. These, in turn, inhibit apoptosis by increasing the expression of anti-apoptotic genes within the neutrophil: interleukin (IL)1beta and a novel cytokine-like molecule pre-B cell colony-enhancing factor (PBEF) are central to this inhibitory influence. Conversely, the phagocytosis of a micro-organism activates the apoptotic program, and so contributes to the resolution of acute inflammation. A complex series of interactions between the neutrophil and microorganisms or their products regulates the duration and intensity of an inflammatory response, and so provides an attractive target for therapeutic manipulation.
Protecting the permeability pore and mitochondrial biogenesis.	Recent evidence links the pathogenesis of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) in sepsis to mitochondrial damage. Our hypothesis is that cellular mechanisms maintaining mitochondrial function must be protected in order to prevent MODS. Recent animal experiments indicate that host defences which target and kill microbes, in part via reactive oxygen and nitrogen production, also injure mitochondria, thus activating mitochondrial cell death pathways. To limit such collateral damage, the cell up-regulates and imports into mitochondria several nuclear-encoded proteins for antioxidant defence and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) replication. Fully integrated responses lead to mitochondrial biogenesis, which may alter cellular phenotype to avoid mitochondrial permeability transition, apoptosis, or energy failure. Key to the cell's vulnerability to oxidant generation by the innate immune response is the mtDNA content. MtDNA depletion is opposed by oxidation reduction (redox) signals that communicate the extent of mitochondrial damage to the nucleus. Molecular studies suggest that redox mechanisms activate two biogenic transcription factors, nuclear respiratory factors 1 and 2, which forestall a deterioration of oxidative phosphorylation during infection. Biogenic failure or an intrinsic biogenic arrest could hasten degradation of mitochondrial function and drive the cell to apoptosis or necrosis. By implication, novel protective strategies for biogenesis hold promise for the prevention of MODS.
Intramedullary abscess in association with tumor at the conus medullaris. Report of two cases.	The authors report on two patients with intramedullary tumors complicated by abscess formation. Both patients experienced abrupt onset of neurological deterioration and poor surgical outcome. An intratumoral abscess developed in one, whereas the other had a tumor-associated syrinx in which an intramedullary abscess developed. Such a conversion of a syrinx into an abscess has not been reported earlier. It is septicemia that underlies all such catastrophic complications; therefore, rapid neurological deterioration should always be looked on with caution and investigated with contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging. Despite poor neurological outcome in such patients, urgent surgical intervention is mandatory.
Apoptotic cardiomyocyte hypertrophy during sepsis and septic shock results from prolonged exposure to endothelin precursor.	Septic shock is a complex cardiovascular dysfunction which leads to regional circulatory alterations and multi-organ dysfunction in humans and animal models. To elucidate the role of stress-activated signaling molecules in the regulation of myocardial dysfunction, we have developed and standardized isolated ventricular myocyte techniques. These techniques allow the assessment of cardiodynamics at cellular (ventricular myocyte) level. These studies are carried out in a well defined model of systemic inflammatory response syndrome following polymicrobial sepsis in the rat. Evidence is provided that sepsis-induced myocardial dysfunction produces indications (signs) of early stages of heart failure. This evidence correlates with upregulation of stress-activated protein kinase cascade. These findings suggest that prolonged exposure to endothelin precursor causes decompensatory hypertrophy in adult rat ventricular myocytes (ARVMs) during sepsis. The decompensatory hypertrophy could, in turn, results in increased cytosolic caspases-3 activity in ARVMs.
Pathophysiology of Citrobacter diversus neonatal meningitis: comparative studies in an infant mouse model.	Citrobacter diversus is a cause of devastating neonatal meningitis, with illness characterized by formation of multiple brain abscesses. We developed an infant mouse intracranial inoculation model to evaluate the pathophysiology of C. diversus neonatal infections. Eighteen of 26 strains inoculated intracranially at a dose of ca. 3.3 x 10(3) CFU caused greater than 50% mortality in 2-day-old mice. No correlation was seen between the epidemiologic characteristics of a strain and its rate of mortality. When seven C. diversus isolates (four isolates from patients with meningitis, three from non-central nervous system [CNS] sites) were further evaluated, mortality was significantly correlated with bacteremia. The initial lesion in the CNS was a suppurative ventriculitis beginning 1 to 2 days postinoculation. Subsequent ventriculomegaly was associated with ventriculitis and periventricular abscessation. Brain lesions were seen with all strains, although strains of low virulence (as measured by having no bacteremia and low mortality) caused less-severe damage. An age-related susceptibility to C. diversus brain lesions was demonstrated, with 5-day-old mice showing a significant reduction in, and 8-day-old mice being apparently resistant to, infection and CNS damage. Our data indicate that C. diversus has a propensity to cause abscess formation in the neonatal mouse brain, with characteristic pathologic findings; however, the factors that determine whether a strain will cause meningitis in a human infant remain to be identified.
Docosahexaenoic acid prevents dendritic cell maturation and in vitro and in vivo expression of the IL-12 cytokine family.	Acute and chronic inflammation play essential roles in inflammatory/autoimmune conditions. Protective anti-inflammatory effects of the n-3 fatty acids docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) were reported in animal models of colitis, sepsis, and stroke. Since dendritic cells (DC) represent the essential cellular link between innate and adaptive immunity and have a prominent role in tolerance for self-antigens, we sought to investigate the impact of DHA on DC maturation and proinflammatory cytokine production.
Infectious endocarditis from the morphologic viewpoint: on the pathology and clinical aspects of 97 autopsy cases]	In continuous autopsy material between 1978 and 1987 an infectious endocarditis was present in 97 cases of 8745 postmortem examinations. Hospital acquired or iatrogenic infections were at the top of the list with 60% contribution and intravasal devices, cardiovascular or abdominal surgery acting as predominant entrance spots of the infection. In community acquired disease the portal of entry could not be ascertained in most of the cases. The spectrum of causative organisms showed staphylococcus aureus in first position (37%), followed by enterococci (20%), candida (12%) and gram-negative rods (10%). Streptococcus viridans could be isolated in only one case. The majority of patients already had cardiac valve lesions before the onset of infection (48%), immune-defence tangent illnesses (47%) and/or were treated immunosuppressively (14%). In many of the patients, however, no predisposing factors could be established. Factors determining the clinical outcome were - independent of the localization - the local destruction (47%), purulent and non-purulent myocarditis (58%), fresh myocardial infarction (17%) and embolization to various organs (76%), whereby the central nervous system was affected to a high degree (43%). Only 39% of the analyzed cases were discovered at lifetime; especially mural (n = 10) and tricuspidal (n = 9) infections were overlooked. In spite of highly suspicious infection parameters, blood-cultures were drawn from only 59% of the patients; however, an antibiotic therapy had been given to 85%. Only through an early diagnosis before serious complications set in, the poor prognosis of infectious endocarditis can be improved by specific chemotherapy and well-timed surgical measures.
Albumin synthesis rates in post-surgical infants and septic adolescents; influence of amino acids, energy, and insulin.	To investigate the effects of glucose, parenteral amino acids, and intravenous insulin on albumin synthesis rates in critically ill children.
Kupffer cells potentiate liver sinusoidal endothelial cell injury in sepsis by ligating programmed cell death ligand-1.	PD-1 and PD-L1 have been reported to provide peripheral tolerance by inhibiting TCR-mediated activation. We have reported that PD-L1-/- animals are protected from sepsis-induced mortality and immune suppression. Whereas studies indicate that LSECs normally express PD-L1, which is also thought to maintain local immune liver tolerance by ligating the receptor PD-1 on T lymphocytes, the role of PD-L1 in the septic liver remains unknown. Thus, we hypothesized initially that PD-L1 expression on LSECs protects them from sepsis-induced injury. We noted that the increased vascular permeability and pSTAT3 protein expression in whole liver from septic animals were attenuated in the absence of PD-L1. Isolated LSECs taken from septic animals, which exhibited increased cell death, declining cell numbers, reduced cellular proliferation, and VEGFR2 expression (an angiogenesis marker), also showed improved cell numbers, proliferation, and percent VEGFR2(+) levels in the absence of PD-L1. We also observed that sepsis induced an increase of liver F4/80(+)PD-1(+)-expressing KCs and increased PD-L1 expression on LSECs. Interestingly, PD-L1 expression levels on LSECs decreased when PD-1(+)-expressing KCs were depleted with clodronate liposomes. Contrary to our original hypothesis, we document here that increased interactions between PD-1(+) KCs and PD-L1(+) LSECs appear to lead to the decline of normal endothelial function-essential to sustain vascular integrity and prevent ALF. Importantly, we uncover an underappreciated pathological aspect of PD-1:PD-L1 ligation during inflammation that is independent of its normal, immune-suppressive activity. 
Disruption of calcium homeostasis in cardiomyocytes underlies cardiac structural and functional changes in severe sepsis.	Sepsis, a major cause of morbidity/mortality in intensive care units worldwide, is commonly associated with cardiac dysfunction, which worsens the prognosis dramatically for patients. Although in recent years the concept of septic cardiomyopathy has evolved, the importance of myocardial structural alterations in sepsis has not been fully explored. This study offers novel and mechanistic data to clarify subcellular events that occur in the pathogenesis of septic cardiomyopathy and myocardial dysfunction in severe sepsis. Cultured neonatal mice cardiomyocytes subjected to serum obtained from mice with severe sepsis presented striking increment of [Ca(2+)]i and calpain-1 levels associated with decreased expression of dystrophin and disruption and derangement of F-actin filaments and cytoplasmic bleb formation. Severe sepsis induced in mice led to an increased expression of calpain-1 in cardiomyocytes. Moreover, decreased myocardial amounts of dystrophin, sarcomeric actin, and myosin heavy chain were observed in septic hearts associated with depressed cardiac contractile dysfunction and a very low survival rate. Actin and myosin from the sarcomere are first disassembled by calpain and then ubiquitinated and degraded by proteasome or sequestered inside specialized vacuoles called autophagosomes, delivered to the lysosome for degradation forming autophagolysosomes. Verapamil and dantrolene prevented the increase of calpain-1 levels and preserved dystrophin, actin, and myosin loss/reduction as well cardiac contractile dysfunction associated with strikingly improved survival rate. These abnormal parameters emerge as therapeutic targets, which modulation may provide beneficial effects on future vascular outcomes and mortality in sepsis. Further studies are needed to shed light on this mechanism, mainly regarding specific calpain inhibitors. 
Mitochondrial dysfunction induces formation of lipid droplets as a generalized response to stress.	Lipid droplet (LD) formation is a hallmark of cellular stress. Cells attempt to combat noxious stimuli by switching their metabolism from oxidative phosphorylation to glycolysis, sparing resources in LDs for generating cellular reducing power and for anabolic biosynthesis. Membrane phospholipids are also a source of LDs. To elucidate the formation of LDs, we exposed mice to hyperoxia, hypoxia, myocardial ischemia, and sepsis induced by cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). All the above-mentioned stressors enhanced the formation of LDs, as assessed by transmission electron microscopy, with severe mitochondrial swelling. Disruption of mitochondria by depleting mitochondrial DNA ( ρ 0 cells) significantly augmented the formation of LDs, causing transcriptional activation of fatty acid biosynthesis and metabolic reprogramming to glycolysis. Heme oxygenase (HO)-1 counteracts CLP-mediated septic shock in mouse models. In HO-1-deficient mice, LD formation was not observed upon CLP, but a concomitant decrease in "LD-decorating proteins" was observed, implying a link between LDs and cytoprotective activity. Collectively, LD biogenesis during stress can trigger adaptive LD formation, which is dependent on mitochondrial integrity and HO-1 activity; this may be a cellular survival strategy, apportioning energy-generating substrates to cellular defense. 
Prognostic scoring systems-validation and their utility in patients with abdominal sepsis in colon peritonitis.	The purpose of this article is to analyze and validate the CR-POSSUM score in patients with peritonitis of colonic origin, considering mortality forecasting ability.
Inter-electrode tissue resistance is not affected by tissue oedema when electrically stimulating the lower limb of sepsis patients.	ICU patients typically are given large amounts of fluid and often develop oedema. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether the oedema would change inter-electrode resistance and, thus, require a different approach to using non-invasive electrical stimulation of nerves to assess muscle force. Inter-electrode tissue resistance in the lower leg was measured by applying a 300 µs constant current pulse and measuring the current through and voltage across the stimulating electrodes. The protocol was administered to nine ICU patients with oedema, eight surgical patients without oedema and eight healthy controls. No significant difference in inter-electrode resistance was found between the three groups. For all groups, resistance decreased as stimulation current increased. In conclusion, inter-electrode resistance in ICU patients with severe oedema is the same as the resistance in regular surgical patients and healthy controls. This means that non-invasive nerve stimulation devices do not need to be designed to accommodate different resistances when used with oedema patients; however, surface stimulation does require higher current levels with oedema patients because of the increased distance between the skin surface and the targeted nerve or muscle.
Four cases of adult Listeria monocytogenes infection in the last 5 years--hepatic necrotic foci in the adult septic case]	We have reported on the clinical courses of 4 cases of adult Listeria monocytogenes (Lm) infection, and the autopsy findings of 2 cases, those we have observed over the past 5 years. They were 2 cases of meningitis, 1 case of meningitis and sepsis and 1 case of sepsis. These 4 cases had CML, neoplastic angioendotheliosis, SLE and post-renal transplant condition, as their underlying diseases, and all were receiving immunosuppressive therapy. One meningitis patient who recovered showed mild liver dysfunction during her clinical course. The other 3 patients who died had jaundice at the time of onset and severe liver dysfunction. The 2 cases those were autopsied were the sepsis cases. The one with an acute course and hepatic failure showed multiple miliary necrotic foci in the liver, where the presence of Lm in the cells could be verified. The other autopsy case, which had received adequate antibiotic therapy and the Lm infection had been cured, showed no necrotic foci in the liver. The case that had necrotic foci in the liver was the first such adult case in Japan. We have discussed the hepatic Lm infection in adult compromised hosts, which conventionally has not been considered a serious problem.
Experimental colonization of a polyester vascular graft with Staphylococcus aureus: a quantitative and morphologic study.	Colonization of a polyester (Dacron) vascular graft by Staphylococcus aureus 209P-R was studied. Twenty-five dogs had thoracoabdominal aortic bypass. After intervals of 2 hours (three dogs), 8 days (five dogs), 1 month (six dogs), 2 months (six dogs), or 6 months (five dogs), a bacteremic challenge was produced by intravenous injection of 6 x 10(8) colony-forming units of S. aureus. Two hours later grafts were removed and cut into 10 fragments, each submitted to bacterial counts and scanning electron microscopic studies. Results of bacterial counts were expressed in colony-forming units (CFU) per square centimeter of graft segment (median [lower to upper quartiles]). Normal canine aortas (n = 2) used as controls trapped no bacteria. Colonization of Dacron grafts varied according to the duration of graft function (p less than 0.01): after 2 hours, 4416.5 CFU (1158 to 9073 CFU); after 8 days, 1515 CFU (963 to 2893 CFU); after 1 month, 199 CFU (86 to 538 CFU); after 2 months, 615 CFU (243 to 1407 CFU); and after 6 months, 1 CFU (1 to 5 CFU). Heavily colonized fragments were observed for duration of graft function of 2 months or less, whereas at 6 months all the fragments trapped fewer than 50 CFU/cm2 of graft segment. Scanning electron microscopy showed that colonization was closely associated with healing. Staphylococcal entrapment was related to the amount of fibrin deposits, which were especially abundant where the thrombotic matrix was unorganized and on bare polyester filaments. Graft colonization is especially to be feared in the first weeks after graft implantation, an observation which may help to define guidelines for preventing hematogenous vascular graft infection.
Septicemic listeriosis in a reindeer calf.	Septicemic listeriosis is described in a 2-day-old reindeer calf (Rangifer tarandus tarandus) from a local zoo. The gross and microscopic lesions were typical of disease caused by bacterial septicemia. Major lesions included necrosis of the liver, lung, adrenal gland, spleen, and lymph node. The diagnosis was suspected by special histopathological stains and confirmed by isolation of Listeria monocytogenes from multiple organs. This is the first report of listeriosis in a reindeer.
Listeriosis in an immature black buck antelope (Antilope cervicapra).	A 10-week-old, black buck antelope calf, from the Mesker Park Zoo in Evansville, Indiana was found dead without observed signs of illness. Necropsy disclosed disseminated ecchymoses on the pericardium, diaphragm, intestines, and renal capsules and more extensive hemorrhage in the muscles of the hindquarters. There were numerous, 1 mm, pale foci on the capsular and cut surfaces of the liver and spleen which, on microscopic examination, were necrotic foci containing variable numbers of neutrophils and mononuclear leukocytes with numerous, short, Gram-positive, cocco-bacilli at the periphery. Listeria monocytogenes was isolated from the liver. Septicemia is the most common form of listeriosis in non-domestic ruminants. Listeriosis should be suspected when unexpected deaths are accompanied by multifocal necrotizing hepatitis and splenitis, myocarditis, and disseminated hemorrhage.
Diagnosis of sepsis, purulent-resorptive fever and septic shock in the practice of the pathologic anatomist]	Sepsis is an uncompensated bacteriemia with metastatic lesions in the form of purulent vasculites and perivascular necroses in septicemia and abscesses arising later at their sites in pyemia. Purulent resorptive fever differs from sepsis by the lack of metastatic lesions. Septic shock is caused by very acute toxicity in sepsis or purulent resorptive fever leading to disorders in microcirculation with increased permeability of vessel walls, secondary dystrophic and necrotic changes in the organs (lungs, kidneys, liver, heart).
Sporadic military meningococcal disease: a diversity of presentations.	Thirty-four cases of meningococcal disease were identified in a retrospective survey of nine US Army posts in the southeastern United States from June 1977 to August 1979. Group B organisms predominated in dependents and civilian communities surrounding two of the posts, while active-duty personnel had a greater variety of organisms, with groups Y and C predominating. The spectrum of clinical presentation and severity was diverse. Six cases of pneumonia with bacteremia occurred, all in basic trainees. A case of chronic meningococcemia was identified, as was one case of dermatitis-arthritis in a pregnant woman, which mimicked gonococcemia. Clinicians should be alert to the possibility of sporadic meningococcal disease in military personnel and their dependents.
Clinico-anatomic characteristics of sepsis caused by polymicrobial flora]	Pathological examinations of 23 fatalities due to sepsis caused by polymicrobial flora revealed in 7 cases polymicrobial flora in metastatic foci of dissimilar composition in different foci, in 4 cases monomicrobial flora but varying in different foci, in 12 cases monomicrobial flora similar in all examined septic foci despite the presence in the blood of two or more agents. Localization of metastatic septic foci to a certain extent dependent on the nature of the sepsis causative agents comprising the association. Polymicrobial forms of sepsis were found in fatal cases due to leukemia in 50.0%, to burn sepsis in 10.8%, and to other diseases in 2.8% of the cases, indicating the dependence of their development on the degree of reduction of immunological responsiveness of the patients. The effect of antibacterial therapy given to the patients on the etiology of sepsis is discussed.
Mycotic sepsis]	Mycotic sepsis may be caused by obligately and facultatively pathogenic fungi. Obligately pathogenic fungi with dimorphism causing septic forms of cryptococcosis, blastomycoses, sporotrichosis, histoplasmosis, and coccidioidosis produce suppurative-necrotic lesions in the internal organs and the central nervous system. They run a course of primary diseases but occur rarely in our latitudes. More frequently, the septic forms of mycoses are due to conditionally pathogenic fungi (Candida, Aspergilli) and are manifested as a secondarily induced disease under conditions of various forms of immune deficiency of the host. Therefore, the main attention is paid to the discussion of protective reactions, particularly phagocytosis, since the latter has killer mechanisms against fungi. The presented data on the fungicidal system and detailed analysis of the functional properties of macrophages and leukocytes are important for the elucidation of the possibility of accumulation and transfer of medicinal biological substances directed at the elimination of the fungi.
Features of sepsis in children today]	High risk groups of infants with regard to sepsis are described. The first high risk group includes newborn babies, infants of the first 3 months of age, premature babies, the second babies with congenital defects of the immune system (classified and unclassified defects), the third babies with acquired immune deficiency conditions due predominantly to the pathology of therapy. Septicemia remains the main clinico-anatomical form of sepsis in infants. The morphological criteria of this form of sepsis are described. In the lack of decrease of sepsis incidence in infants pathology of a therapy plays a great role, but it should be remembered that sepsis nowadays is observed in babies who previously had died within a short period of time after birth or after the onset of the disease.
Valvular endocarditis and bacteremia in a bald eagle.	A thickened left atrioventricular valve and a discolored, mottled liver were the only lesions noted in an adult male bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) found dead below its nest on Hirz Creek near Lake Shasta, California. Microscopic examination revealed bacterial vegetative valvular endocarditis and disseminated bacterial thromboembolic lesions.
Clinical anatomy of the umbilicus.	The diagnostic value of the appearance of the umbilicus in a wide range of conditions is discussed. Umbilical sepsis, tumours, fistulas, developmental anomalies and hernias are described, and the embryology of related structures is outlined.
Hepatic neutrophil sequestration in early sepsis: enhanced expression of adhesion molecules and phagocytic activity.	Abdominal sepsis was produced by cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) in rats to observe neutrophil (PMN) migration into the liver and assess the functional alteration in circulating PMNs, liver sequestered PMNs, and Kupffer cells. 7 h following CLP, rats demonstrated severe leukopenia and major amount of PMNs sequestered into the liver (17.0 +/- 5.5 x 10(6) vs. 3.1 +/- 1.6 x 10(6) in sham-operated rats, p < .01). Light microscopic evidence demonstrated the presence of such PMNs in the sinusoids and in the liver parenchyma. By 20 h following CLP, the number of PMNs in the liver was not different from sham controls. CD11b/c expression on circulating PMNs was significantly upregulated from 1.6 +/- .3 to 7.8 +/- .9 mean channel fluorescence (MCF) in 7 h CLP rats. Liver-sequestered PMNs showed further enhancement of CD11b/c expression to 10.4 +/- 1.9 MCF than the circulating PMNs. However, in the late septic rats, CD11b/c expression on circulating PMNs 2.9 +/- .5 MCF returned to the control level of 1.9 +/- .7 MCF. Liver-sequestered PMNs and Kupffer cells in septic rats exhibited remarkably enhanced phagocytic activities 53.0 +/- 10.8 and 56.9 +/- 7.7% phagocytosis, respectively, regardless of the suppression of phagocytosis in circulating PMNs (16.0 +/- 5% phagocytosis). In 7 h CLP rats, liver-sequestered PMNs exhibited a significantly higher level of superoxide anion generation 21.8 +/- 12.2 nmol/30 min/10(6) cells than did Kupffer cells (4.2 +/- 3.0 nmol/30 min/10(6) cells). These results demonstrate that the liver is a target organ for neutrophil sequestration during the septic response.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Systematic study of the morphology of the immune and endocrine organs during the infectious process]	Immune and endocrine organs of 259 children and adults who had died of sepsis, local purulent-inflammatory affections were studied morphologically and morphometrically. It is established, that compensatory morphological changes in the lymphoid tissue and endocrine organs are integrated into a united system the structural basis of which are numerous inter- and intra-organ correlations. A systemic interaction between the lymphoid and endocrine organs at early age is pronounced much weaker than in the adults. A progressive destruction of this systemic interaction takes place in sepsis and results in an increase of informational entropy and the coefficient of the system disintegration. Inability of the body to fight bacteremia and to localize the infection is secondary to the system destruction this being due to high frequency of previous immuno-endocrinopathies.
Porcine hepatic response to sepsis and its amplification by an adrenergic receptor alpha1 agonist and a beta2 antagonist.	1. We investigated the effect of adrenergic receptor stimulation or inhibition on the hepatic ultrastructural changes in a porcine faecal peritonitis model of multi-organ failure. We infused either the alpha1 adrenergic receptor agonist methoxamine or the beta2 adrenergic receptor antagonist ICI 118551 during 8 h of the study.2. Anaesthetized pigs (25-30 kg) were divided into four non-septic groups (control, non-septic, non-septic methoxamine and non-septic ICI 118551) and three septic groups (septic, septic methoxamine and septic ICI 118551).3. Changes in hepatic ultrastructure were measured by morphometric analysis. The septic group was significantly worse than all the non-septic groups. Septic methoxamine and septic ICI 118551 were significantly worse than the septic group.4. Septic methoxamine and septic ICI 118551 had a significantly increased perisinusoidal space; septic methoxamine had significant hepatocyte vacuolation.5. Hepatic ultrastructural changes were independent of hepatic blood flow.6. Septic methoxamine had significant myocardial depression.7. The alpha1 adrenergic receptor agonist methoxamine or the beta2 antagonist ICI 118551 both amplified the hepatic injury normally found during sepsis in our porcine model.8. These findings suggest that during sepsis a protective endogenous beta2 adrenergic receptor-mediated anti-inflammatory response is activated via cell membrane transduction to stimulate the trimeric G-protein complex Gs and activate the second cell messenger cAMP.9. In addition, it is likely that alpha1 adrenergic receptor agonists amplify the inflammatory response by stimulating the cell-surface receptor-linked trimeric G-protein complex to activate Gq and the second cell messenger phospholipase C.
