Cavum septi pellucidi in Tourette syndrome.	An enlarged cavum septum pellucidum (CSP) is a putative marker of disturbed brain development, and it has been associated with a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders. The goal of this study was to characterize systematically the CSP and the related cavum vergae in individuals with Tourette syndrome (TS).
Huge colloid cyst: case report and review of unusual forms.	The authors report a case of a huge colloid cyst of the septum pellucidum with acute worsening. A 42-year-old man was admitted for unexplained lethargy. A brain CT scan disclosed a huge intra-ventricular lesion. He experienced a sudden deterioration with coma, and was managed with bilateral ventricular external shunting. Total removal was performed a few days later using a right frontal trans-ventricular approach. The discussion focuses on colloid cyst potential to mimic other intracranial lesions, rendering accurate diagnosis difficult and leading to possibly inappropriate management in similar cases.
The syndrome of septo-optic dysplasia in Saudi children.	To describe the clinical, ophthalmological, endocrinological and radiological features of 10 Saudi children with the syndrome of septo-optic dysplasia and hypothalamic hypopituitarism.
Cleft cavum of the septum pellucidum in victims of fatal road traffic accidents: a distinct type of cavum associated with severe diffuse axonal injury.	The cavum of the septum pellucidum (CSP) is a small cavity constantly present in fetuses and newborns, of variable frequency among necropsied adults and with a high frequency in professional boxers.
Neuroendoscopic management of symptomatic septum pellucidum cysts.	Ten rare cases of symptomatic septum pellucidum cysts in patients who underwent endoscopic fenestration are described. The approaches and techniques used in the management of these cysts and the endoscopic surgical indications are discussed.
Clarifying the origin of biological abnormalities in PTSD through the study of identical twins discordant for combat exposure.	A biological abnormality found to be associated with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) may be, among other things, a pretrauma vulnerability factor, that is, it may have been present prior to the event's occurrence and increased the individual's likelihood of developing PTSD upon traumatic exposure. Alternately, it may be an acquired PTSD sign, that is, it may have developed after the traumatic exposure, along with the PTSD. We have studied pairs of Vietnam combat veterans and their noncombat-exposed, identical twins in an effort to resolve these competing origins. Combat veterans were diagnosed as current PTSD or non-PTSD (i.e., never had). Average heart rate responses (HRRs) to a series of sudden, loud-tone presentations were larger in Vietnam combat veteran twins with PTSD, but these larger responses were not shared by their noncombat-exposed cotwins, whose responses were similar to those of the non-PTSD combat veterans and their noncombat-exposed cotwins. These results suggest that larger HRRs to sudden, loud tones represent an acquired sign of PTSD. In contrast, increased neurological soft signs (NSSs), diminished hippocampal volume, and presence of abnormal cavum septum pellucidum (CSP) were found in Vietnam combat veteran twins with PTSD and their "high-risk," unexposed cotwins compared to Vietnam combat veteran twins without PTSD and their "low-risk," unexposed cotwins. These results support the conclusion that the latter abnormalities represent antecedent, familial vulnerability factors for developing chronic PTSD upon exposure to a traumatic event.
MRI abnormalities of the hippocampus and cavum septi pellucidi in females with schizotypal personality disorder.	This study examined MRI hippocampal volume and cavum septi pellucidi (CSP) in female subjects with schizotypal personality disorder (SPD) and comparison subjects.
The occurrence of cavum septi pellucidi enlargement is increased in bipolar disorder patients.	This study was conducted to evaluate the prevalence of cavum septi pellucidi (CSP) enlargement in patients with bipolar disorder (BD) and healthy comparison subjects.
Prevalence of large cavum septi pellucidi in ultra high-risk individuals and patients with psychotic disorders.	An increased prevalence of large cavum septum pellucidum (CSP), a marker of midline neurodevelopmental abnormality, has been reported in schizophrenia. However, not all studies have been able to replicate this finding and very few studies have been conducted in large samples. In the current study, magnetic resonance imaging was used to assess the presence of an abnormal CSP in 162 patients with first-episode psychosis (FEP), 89 patients with chronic schizophrenia, 135 ultra high-risk (UHR) individuals, and 87 controls. The prevalence of a large CSP (>5.6 mm) did not differ between the groups (9.3% of the FEP patients, 11.2% of the chronic schizophrenia patients, 11.1% of the UHR individuals, and 11.5% of the controls). The length of the CSP was not associated with sulcal morphology of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), suggesting different biological processes responsible for the CSP enlargement versus ACC folding. These findings suggest that the CSP is not a neurodevelopmental marker of psychosis and cast doubt over the notion that it plays a major role in the neurobiology of psychosis.
Septo-hippocampal networks in chronic epilepsy.	The medial septum inhibits the appearance of interictal spikes and seizures through theta rhythm generation. We have determined that medial septal neurons increase their firing rates during chronic epilepsy and that the GABAergic neurons from both medial and lateral septal regions are highly and selectively vulnerable to the epilepsy process. Since the lateral septal region receives a strong projection from the hippocampus and its neurons are vulnerable to epilepsy, their functional properties are probably altered by this disorder. Using the pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy we examined the pilocarpine-induced functional alterations of lateral septal neurons and provided additional observations on the pilocarpine-induced functional alterations of medial septal neurons. Simultaneous extracellular recordings of septal neurons and hippocampal field potentials were obtained from chronic epileptic rats under urethane anesthesia. Our results show that: (1) the firing rates of lateral septal neurons were chronically decreased by epilepsy, (2) a subset of lateral septal neurons increased their firing rates before and during hippocampal interictal spikes, (3) the discharges of those lateral septal neurons were well correlated to the hippocampal interictal spikes, (4) in contrast, the discharges of medial septal neurons were not correlated with the hippocampal interictal spikes. We conclude that epilepsy creates dysfunctional and uncoupled septo-hippocampal networks. The elucidation of the roles of altered septo-hippocampal neuronal populations and networks during temporal lobe epilepsy will help design new and effective interventions dedicated to reduce or suppress epileptic activity.
Transplantation of a temperature-sensitive, nerve growth factor-secreting, neuroblastoma cell line into adult rats with fimbria-fornix lesions rescues cholinergic septal neurons.	The HT4 cell line was derived from infection of a mouse neuroblastoma cell line with a retrovirus that encoded the temperature-sensitive (ts) mutant of SV40 large T antigen. At nonpermissive temperature, HT4 cells differentiated with neuronal morphology, expressed neuronal antigens, synthesized nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA, and secreted biologically active NGF in vitro. We sought to establish whether transplanted HT4 cells expressed class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens, a partial requirement for recognition by cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), and thus be susceptible to xenograft rejection. Differentiated HT4 cells expressed marginally detectable levels of class I MHC antigens, but demonstrated higher levels of class I MHC expression after treatment with interferon-gamma. However, HT4 cells were resistant to direct lysis by perforin, the pore-forming protein of CTLs, and thus may have potential use in xenograft experiments. To address whether HT4 cells secrete NGF in vivo, HT4 cells were transplanted into adults rats with unilateral fimbria-fornix transections. A ts cell line derived from P4 cerebellum, BT1, that does not differentiate with neuronal phenotype or synthesize NGF in vitro, was transplanted as a control. Six weeks posttransplant. HT4 cells had integrated into host CNS without forming tumors. In BT1 transplants, the number of medial septal acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-positive cells was reduced to 26-39% of the contralateral control side, depending on the rostrocaudal level. In HT4 transplants, the number of cholinergic septal neurons was 58-78% of the contralateral side. This percentage was significantly (P less than 0.005) greater than that seen with BT1 transplants, indicating that transplanted HT4 cells secrete NGF in vivo and rescue cholinergic septal neurons following fimbria-fornix transection.
Rosette-forming glioneuronal tumor of the septum pellucidum with extension to the supratentorial ventricles: rare case with genetic analysis.	In the original description, rosette-forming glioneuronal tumors (RGNTs) were restricted to the fourth ventricle and/or posterior fossa. Here, we first report an unusual case of RGNT centered in the septum pellucidum and associated with multiple masses occupying the wall of the bilateral lateral ventricles and the third ventricle. No mass was found in the fourth ventricle. Histological and immunohistochemical examination revealed that the tumor presented biphasic differentiation characterized by predominantly neurocytic rosettes and pilocytic astrocytoma-like components with obvious microvascular proliferation. Chromosome 1p/19q deletions and isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2 (IDH1/2) mutations were not identified. Because this case exhibited a worrisome growth pattern, further studies and long-term follow-up are needed to determine the true nature of these tumors.
Cavum septum pellucidum cyst in children: a case-based update.	Cavum septum pellucidum (CSP) cysts are rare lesions which are frequently asymptomatic. Some clinical findings may be associated with CSP cysts, such as headache and other symptoms of increased intracranial pressure, neurological deficit, and mental status changes. There is still controversy in the management of symptomatic cases, especially in children. The main difficulty is to establish a correlation between symptoms and the cyst. When indicated, the treatment is essentially surgical, and the ideal operative technique is also a matter of debate.
A case report on the relationship between treatment-resistant childhood-onset schizophrenia and an abnormally enlarged cavum septum pellucidum combined with cavum vergae.	The treatment of refractory schizophrenia has been a clinical challenge for most psychiatrists; the possible reasons include diagnostic errors, medical conditions and brain dysgenesis. Here, we described a patient with childhood-onset schizophrenia who had severe psychiatric symptoms such as auditory hallucinations and persecutory delusions, and etc. We reexamined all his possible medical conditions and found that the patient had an abnormally enlarged cavus septum pellucidum (CSP) combined with cavum vergae (CV) (maximum length >30 mm). Some reports suggested that abnormal CSP (length >6 mm) has a significant association with schizophrenia. However, abnormally large CSP or CSP/CV and related prognosis were reported rarely. This case suggested that abnormally enlarged CSP or CSP/CV may worsen the prognosis.
Hemorrhage in cavum septi pellucidi.	One case of hemorrhage in the cavum septi pellucidi (CSP) is presented. This unusual location of intracranial hemorrhage was demonstrated by cranial sonography in a premature neonate.
"Caval-septal" hematoma: does it exist?	A "caval-septal" hematoma shown by computed tomography has been described in cases of ruptured aneurysms arising from the anterior communicating artery. This term seems to imply that the hematoma is confined to the cavum septi pellucidi. This common findings almost always represents a hematoma in the anterior interhemispheric fissure.
Laser-assisted flexible endoscopic fenestration of giant cyst of the septum pellucidum.	The use of the flexible neuroendoscope and laser fenestration in the surgical management of a symptomatic cyst of cavum septum pellucidum is reported. Successful communication was established between the cyst cavity and the lateral ventricles using this technique. Satisfactory clinical and radiological improvement as seen on MRI confirmed the operative success.
Chronic alcohol ingestion: nerve growth factor gene expression and neurotrophic activity in rat hippocampus.	Chronic ethanol treatment induces memory deficits accompanied by anatomical and biochemical changes in basal forebrain and hippocampus. Cholinergic neurons in the septohippocampal pathway are especially vulnerable to alcohol neurotoxicity. Several studies showed that an adequate supply of neurotrophins, such as Nerve Growth Factor and Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor, is required for the normal function and survival of cholinergic neurons in basal forebrain and medial septal nuclei. We tested the hypothesis that chronic alcohol ingestion may alter the gene expression level of Nerve Growth Factor in hippocampus, the major source of neurotrophins to the cholinergic neurons in the septohippocampal pathway. We measured Nerve Growth Factor protein and Nerve Growth Factor mRNA contents using sensitive two-site ELISA and Northern analysis. We also tested the endogenous neurotrophic activity, including and excluding Nerve Growth Factor, contained in 5%, 2%, 1%, 0.5% and 0.1% (w/v) hippocampal tissue extracts on sympathetic ganglia neurons. Twenty-eight weeks of chronic ethanol treatment did not reduce Nerve Growth Factor protein, Nerve Growth Factor mRNA, or total neurotrophic activity contained in the rat hippocampus when measured on sympathetic ganglia neurons.
The callosal-septal interface lesion in multiple sclerosis: effect of sequence and imaging plane.	We examined the effect of imaging plane and sequence on the demonstration of lesions at the callosal-septal interface (CSI) by magnetic resonance imaging in 20 patients with known multiple sclerosis. Variable-echo-(VE) T2- and proton density (PD) weighted images were performed in coronal axial and sagittal planes. Sagittal gradient echo (GE) T2- and PD-weighted images were also performed. Lesions at the CSI were seen in all patients and were all demonstrated on both sagittal and coronal VE images. Sagittal PD-weighted GE images were slightly less sensitive but showed good overall agreement with sagittal VE. Axial VE and sagittal T2-weighted GE images demonstrated CSI lesions poorly.
Effects of lesions of the Substantia Innominata/Ventral Pallidum, globus pallidus and medial septum on rat's performance in object-recognition and radial-maze tasks: physostigmine and amphetamine treatments.	The present study examined the effects of electrolytic lesions of the Medial Septum/Vertical Diagonal Band of Broca (MS/VDBB), the Globus Pallidus (GP) and the Substantia- Innominata/Ventral Pallidum (SI/VP) on the performance of rats in object-recognition memory and radial-maze learning tests. In the latter test, subgroups of sham-operated, MS/VDBB, SI/VP and GP rats were treated with saline, amphetamine or physostigmine. (1) In the object recognition task, the level of discrimination wa s significantly lower in GP compared to SI/VP and in both GP and SI/VP compared to Control and MS/VDBB groups, however, only GP did not discriminate between new and familiar objects; (2) in the radial-maze task, GP and SI/VP lesions produced weak and tran sient impairment whereas MS/VDBB lesions produced a large deficit; (3) in the radial-maze task, performance of normal rats was improved with physostigmine and impaired with amphetamine. The effect of amphetamine was significant on non-memory measures only; (4) neither amphetamine nor physostigmine improved memory performances of lesioned rats. These results suggest that the septo-hippocampal projections are involved in spatial memory but not in object recognition whereas the integrity of Substantia Inno minata/Ventral Pallidum does not seem critical for either task. The cholinergic nature of the deficit produced by the medial septal lesion remains in question because of improvements seen in sham-operated rats but not in lesioned rats.
