Force protection: today's reality.	Most US infrastructure and major chemical manufacturing facilities as well as their supporting utility systems are inherently vulnerable to a terrorist attack. Force protection is a military and civilian term used to protect personnel and critical facilities and assets against would-be aggressors or terrorists. The war on terrorism is a 200-300-year war. Terrorist attacks on US soil could become as common-place as in the State of Israel. It is very easy to penetrate infrastructure or plants as evidenced by vulnerability assessments performed for states, cities, plants, and military facilities by Versar and others around the country. Chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosive weapons can be readily used to attack facilities in the US. This paper will explain some of those vulnerabilities, outline the current DoD standard as it relates to vulnerability assessments, and explain how this may be used in commercial applications to deter potential aggressors.
The effects of the World Trade Center event on birth outcomes among term deliveries at three lower Manhattan hospitals.	The effects of prenatal exposure to pollutants from the World Trade Center (WTC) disaster on fetal growth and subsequent health and development of exposed children remain a source of concern. We assessed the impact of gestational timing of the disaster and distance from the WTC in the 4 weeks after 11 September on the birth outcomes of 300 nonsmoking women who were pregnant at the time of the event. They were recruited at delivery between December 2001 and June 2002 from three hospitals close to the WTC site. Residential and work addresses of all participants for each of the 4 weeks after 11 September 2001 were geocoded for classification by place and timing of exposure. Average daily hours spent at each location were based on the women's reports for each week. Biomedical pregnancy and delivery data extracted from the medical records of each mother and newborn included medical complications, type of delivery, length of gestation, birth weight, birth length, and head circumference. Term infants born to women who were pregnant on 11 September 2001 and who were living within a 2-mile radius of the WTC during the month after the event showed significant decrements in term birth weight (-149 g) and birth length (-0.82 cm), compared with infants born to the other pregnant women studied, after controlling for sociodemographic and biomedical risk factors. The decrements remained significant with adjustment for gestational duration (-122 g and -0.74 cm, respectively). Women in the first trimester of pregnancy at the time of the WTC event delivered infants with significantly shorter gestation (-3.6 days) and a smaller head circumference (-0.48 cm), compared with women at later stages of pregnancy, regardless of the distance of their residence or work sites from the WTC. The observed adverse effects suggest an impact of pollutants and/or stress related to the WTC disaster and have implications for the health and development of exposed children.
Preparing for an era of weapons of mass destruction (WMD)--are we there yet? Why we should all be concerned. Part II.	September 11, 2001 demonstrated dramatic voids in national preparedness, and catalyzed massive efforts to identify and remedy vulnerabilities. Since Part I of this series appeared in August 2002, significant improvements have been achieved especially in bioterrorism and chemical terrorism for first responders and emergency medicine, law enforcement, and public health (surveillance). Such efforts manifested benefits during the SARS outbreaks and monkeypox cases of 2003. Nevertheless, emerging infectious diseases will continue to pose a threat if we do not remain vigilant and continue to invest in training, surveillance, and treatments. As expected, many poison centers and toxicologists have taken leadership roles nationwide. In regions where such leadership existed, preparedness levels are strong and collaborations resulted in the development of valuable response plans and training, including the Advanced Hazardous Life Support (AHLS) and Basic Disaster Life Support (BDLS) courses. Early success notwithstanding, experts suggest that current national preparedness has improved slightly from "1" (9/11) to "3" out of "10". Increasingly it has become evident that the nuclear threat, including radiation terrorism, is significant, against which the US remains inadequately prepared. Arguably the nuclear threat-whether accidental or planned-remains our highest consequence vulnerability, and we must rapidly improve our readiness across disciplines. Special populations including the elderly and children remain marginalized in preparedness protocols. Local vulnerabilities including chemical manufacturing and transportation--not just a risk for terrorism but industrial accidents--continue unabated. Our early success is not an endpoint; much work remains and time is fleeting. This report examines vulnerabilities that must be addressed to enhance preparedness.
Bronchial hyperreactivity and other inhalation lung injuries in rescue/recovery workers after the World Trade Center collapse.	The collapse of the World Trade Center (WTC) on September 11, 2001 created a large-scale disaster site in a dense urban environment. In the days and months thereafter, thousands of rescue/recovery workers, volunteers, and residents were exposed to a complex mixture of airborne pollutants.
The Pentagon and 9/11.	The objective of this study was to review and discuss the medical response to the Pentagon attack on September 11, 2001.
The experience at St. Vincent's Hospital, Manhattan, on September 11, 2001: preparedness, response, and lessons learned.	St. Vincent's Hospital in New York City was the primary recipient of patients after the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center. This experience prompted the drafting of a formal disaster plan, which was implemented during the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Here, we outline the Emergency Management External Disaster Plan of St. Vincent's Hospital and discuss the time course of presentation and medical characteristics of the critically injured patients on that day. We describe how the critical care service adapted to the specific challenges presented and the lessons that we learned. We hope to provide other critical care systems with a framework for response to such large-scale disasters.
Occurrence of acute myocardial infarction in Worcester, Massachusetts, before, during, and after the terrorists attacks in New York City and Washington, DC, on 11 September 2001.	The Worcester Heart Attack Study is an ongoing population-based investigation examining changes over time in the incidence and case-fatality rates of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in residents of metropolitan Worcester, Massachusetts. Using this large population-based database of patients with independently validated AMI, we examined the impact of the September 11th tragedy on the occurrence rates of AMI in residents of greater Worcester presenting to all area hospitals during 2001 compared with rates in the previous 10 years.
Exposures among pregnant women near the World Trade Center site on 11 September 2001.	We have characterized environmental exposures among 187 women who were pregnant, were at or near the World Trade Center (WTC) on or soon after 11 September 2001, and are enrolled in a prospective cohort study of health effects. Exposures were assessed by estimating time spent in five zones around the WTC and by developing an exposure index (EI) based on plume reconstruction modeling. The daily reconstructed dust levels were correlated with levels of particulate matter < or = 2.5 microm in aerodynamic diameter (PM2.5; r = 0.68) or PM10 (r = 0.73-0.93) reported from 26 September through 8 October 2001 at four of six sites near the WTC whose data we examined. Biomarkers were measured in a subset. Most (71%) of these women were located within eight blocks of the WTC at 0900 hr on 11 September, and 12 women were in one of the two WTC towers. Daily EIs were determined to be highest immediately after 11 September and became much lower but remained highly variable over the next 4 weeks. The weekly summary EI was associated strongly with women's perception of air quality from week 2 to week 4 after the collapse (p < 0.0001). The highest levels of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon-deoxyribonucleic acid (PAH-DNA) adducts were seen among women whose blood was collected sooner after 11 September, but levels showed no significant associations with EI or other potential WTC exposure sources. Lead and cobalt in urine were weakly correlated with sigmaEI, but not among samples collected closest to 11 September. Plasma OC levels were low. The median polychlorinated biphenyl level (sum of congeners 118, 138, 153, 180) was 84 ng/g lipid and had a nonsignificant positive association with sigmaEI (p > 0.05). 1,2,3,4,6,7,8-Heptachlorodibenzodioxin levels (median, 30 pg/g lipid) were similar to levels reported in WTC-exposed firefighters but were not associated with EI. This report indicates intense bystander exposure after the WTC collapse and provides information about nonoccupational exposures among a vulnerable population of pregnant women.
Molecular applications for identifying microbial pathogens in the post-9/11 era.	Rapid advances in molecular and optical technologies over the past 10 years have dramatically impacted the way biologic research is conducted today. Examples include microarrays, capillary sequencing, optical mapping and real-time sequencing (Pyrosequencing). These technologies are capable of rapidly delivering massive amounts of genetic information and are becoming routine mainstays of many laboratories. Fortunately, advances in scientific computing have provided the enormous computing power necessary to analyze these enormous data sets. The application of molecular technologies should prove useful to the burgeoning field of microbial forensics. In the post-9/11 era, when securing America's food supply is a major endeavor, the need for rapid identification of microbes that accidentally or intentionally find their way into foods is apparent. The principle that distinguishes a microbial forensic investigation from a molecular epidemiology study is that a biocrime has been committed. If proper attribution is to be attained, a link must be made between a particular microbe in the food and the perpetrator who placed it there. Therefore, the techniques used must be able to discriminate individual isolates of a particular microbe. A battery of techniques in development for distinguishing individual isolates of particular foodborne pathogens is discussed.
Pulmonary function after exposure to the World Trade Center collapse in the New York City Fire Department.	On September 11, 2001, the World Trade Center collapse created an enormous urban disaster site with high levels of airborne pollutants. First responders, rescue and recovery workers, and residents have since reported respiratory symptoms and developed pulmonary function abnormalities.
From SARA to Homeland Security: the NIEHS Worker Education and Training Program confronts challenges of environmental cleanup.	Section 126(g) of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 mandated the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences to establish a grant program for the training and education of hazardous waste operations and emergency response workers. This program, originally established as the Superfund Worker Training Program, has evolved into the Worker Education and Training Program (WETP) and is currently in its nineteenth year of successful operation. Beginning with eleven awardees in 1987, it currently supports eighteen awardees that include more than one hundred organizations nationally. The NIEHS WETP built upon the lessons learned from earlier worker health education and training programs to establish a national worker health education intervention that has demonstrated the capacity of and potential for public health excellence. The principles and practices established as the program's foundation in its first five years are detailed, providing a basis for understanding how the program was able to take an active supporting role in response to the national disasters on September 11, 2001.
Evolution of lower respiratory symptoms in New York police officers after 9/11: a prospective longitudinal study.	We studied the evolution of lower respiratory symptoms at 1 month (initial) and 19 months (follow-up) after the collapse of the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001 (9/11).
World Trade Center "sarcoid-like" granulomatous pulmonary disease in New York City Fire Department rescue workers.	Previous reports suggest that sarcoidosis occurs with abnormally high frequency in firefighters. We sought to determine whether exposure to World Trade Center (WTC) "dust" during the collapse and rescue/recovery effort increased the incidence of sarcoidosis or "sarcoid-like" granulomatous pulmonary disease (SLGPD).
Emergency medical consequence planning and management for national special security events after September 11: Boston 2004.	The post-September 11 era has prompted unprecedented attention to medical preparations for national special security events (NSSE), requiring extraordinary planning and coordination among federal, state, and local agencies. For an NSSE, the US Secret Service (USSS) serves as the lead agency for all security operations and coordinates with relevant partners to provide for the safety and welfare of participants. For the 2004 Democratic National Convention (DNC), designated an NSSE, the USSS tasked the Boston Emergency Medical Services (BEMS) of the Boston Public Health Commission with the design and implementation of health services related to the Convention. In this article, we describe the planning and development of BEMS' robust 2004 DNC Medical Consequence Management Plan, addressing the following activities: public health surveillance, on-site medical care, surge capacity in the event of a mass casualty incident, and management of federal response assets. Lessons learned from enhanced medical planning for the 2004 DNC may serve as an effective model for future mass gathering events.
Participatory action research methodology in disaster research: results from the World Trade Center evacuation study.	Participatory action research (PAR) methodology is an effective tool in identifying and implementing risk-reduction interventions. It has been used extensively in occupational health research, but not, to our knowledge, in disaster research. A PAR framework was incorporated into the World Trade Center evacuation study, which was designed to identify the individual, organizational, and structural (environmental) factors that affected evacuation from the World Trade Center Towers 1 and 2 on September 11, 2001. PAR teams-comprising World Trade Center evacuees, study investigators, and expert consultants-worked collaboratively to develop a set of recommendations designed to facilitate evacuation from high-rise office buildings and reduce risk of injury among evacuees.
Respiratory and cardiovascular hospitalizations after the World Trade Center disaster.	The objective of this study was to determine whether there were increases in respiratory and cardiovascular hospital admissions among residents of lower Manhattan after the destruction of the World Trade Center. The authors used hospital admission records from 1991 to 2001 with a diagnosis of respiratory, cardiovascular, or cerebrovascular illness and a residential address in lower Manhattan or Queens. The authors assessed the change in admissions by comparing lower Manhattan to Queens (the control area) and before and after 9/11 admissions in lower Manhattan. They found the following significant increases in hospital admissions: for respiratory illnesses during the weeks of 9/11/01 and 10/16/01; asthma during the week of 9/11/01; cardiovascular during the weeks of 9/18/01 and 10/9/01; cerebrovascular during the weeks of 9/11/01, 9/18/01, 10/2/01, and 10/9/01. There was an immediate increase in respiratory admissions after the disaster and a delayed increase in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular admissions.
Lower respiratory symptoms among residents living near the World Trade Center, two and four years after 9/11.	We investigated whether residents living near the World Trade Center (WTC) continued to experience respiratory problems several years after September 11, 2001 (9/11). Residents living within one mile of the WTC surveyed after 9/11 responded two and four years later to follow-up surveys that asked about lower respiratory symptoms (LRS), medical history, psychological stress, and indoor environmental characteristics. There were declines in the proportion of residents reporting LRS, new lower respiratory diagnoses, unplanned medical visits, and asthma medication use. However, the proportion of residents reporting any LRS in the affected area at follow-up remained higher than the original proportion in the control area; residents with multiple sources of potential 9/11-related exposures were at greatest risk for LRS at follow-up. Psychological stress, dust/odors, and moisture were significantly associated with LRS at follow-up. These data demonstrate that LRS continue to burden residents living in the areas affected by the WTC disaster.
Occupational, environmental, and irritant-induced cough.	Occupational and environmental irritants play a role in the pathogenesis of chronic cough. An irritant is a non-corrosive chemical, which causes a reversible inflammatory change on living tissue by chemical action at the site of contact. The clinical and pathologic spectrum of chemically induced respiratory tract irritation ranges from neurogenically mediated alterations in regional blood flow, mucus secretion, and airway caliber to the initiation of cough. In an evolutionary perspective, two types of cough reflexes were created for different protective purposes, but each type used the same anatomic and physiologic neural and muscular structures. The mechanosensory type evolved as human ancestors adapted phonation over olfaction and the larynx moved in close proximity to the esophageal opening. The chemosensory type evolved to protect against an injured lung from a respiratory tract infection or after inhaling high levels of irritant gases and particulates that accumulated in confined quarters of early times. For this latter type of cough reflex, normally quiescent transient receptor potential (TRP) cation channels TRPV1(vanilloid) and TRPA1 (ankyrin) become activated or hyperactivated after lung injury, with lung inflammation, or in response to chemicals. Although animal and laboratory investigations support the possibility of human TRPpathies, further investigations are essential for the further elucidation of the role of TRP cationic channels in instigating chronic cough in humans.
Effects of the September 11, 2001 disaster on pregnancy outcomes: a systematic review.	The terrorist explosions of the World Trade Center in New York City and the other events on the Pentagon and in Pennsylvania on 11 September 2001 were stressful events that affected people around the world. Pregnant women and their offspring are especially vulnerable during and after such a terrorist attack. The objective was to systematically review the risks of adverse pregnancy outcomes after the terrorist attacks on Sept 11, 2001.
FE NO concentrations in World Trade Center responders and controls, 6 years post-9/11.	The aim of this study was to evaluate whether underlying respiratory disease may be revealed by offline fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FE(NO)) testing among a cohort of New York State (NYS) World Trade Center (WTC) responders in comparison with a control group of similar but unexposed NYS employees, 6 years post-9/11. Participants (92 exposed, 141 unexposed) provided two breath samples that were collected in Mylar bags and sent to a central laboratory for FE(NO) testing. Participants also completed a brief questionnaire. Ambient air pollution was characterized using particulate matter (PM(2.5)) and ozone concentration data from the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation air-monitoring sites closest to each testing site for each day of sample collection. WTC exposure did not appear to be associated with elevated FE(NO) concentrations. FE(NO) concentrations were higher on days with elevated levels of PM(2.5) (≥ 35 μg/m³) and ozone (≥ 0.08 ppm). FE(NO) concentrations were higher in men and lower in smokers. Our results do not suggest an association between WTC exposure and elevated FE(NO) concentrations, 6 years post-9/11, in this moderately exposed cohort of responders. Results do suggest that FE(NO) concentrations were elevated in relation to higher levels of ambient air pollutants. Our results also offer useful reference values for future research involving FE(NO) testing. This study demonstrates that offline FE(NO) testing is a useful method for epidemiological studies requiring collection of samples in the field, potentially over a broad geographic area.
Safe from biothreats? Legislation protects you and society]	The 9/11 terror attacks, followed by mailing of letters containing anthrax spores, changed our comprehension on threats towards modern society. Finland is committed by international treaties to develop biosafety and biosecurity legislation, and general awareness of the legislation. However, the rapidly developing field of biosciences cannot be extensively regulated by legislation. Awareness of the risks and challenges involved in handling of biological agents is an important tool in threat prevention. Despite active efforts to update the legislation by government authorities, currently the sustenance and development of biosecurity are primarily in the hands of individual researchers and the scientific community.
Cardiovascular disease hospitalizations in relation to exposure to the September 11, 2001 World Trade Center disaster and posttraumatic stress disorder.	A cohort study found that 9/11-related environmental exposures and posttraumatic stress disorder increased self-reported cardiovascular disease risk. We attempted to replicate these findings using objectively defined cardiovascular disease hospitalizations in the same cohort.
Not so close but still extremely loud: recollection of the World Trade Center terror attack and previous hurricanes moderates the association between exposure to hurricane Sandy and posttraumatic stress symptoms.	The present study examined whether recollections of the World Trade Center (WTC) terror attack and previous hurricanes moderated the relationship between exposure to Hurricane Sandy and related posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms.
