Striatal-enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase-STEPs toward understanding chronic stress-induced activation of corticotrophin releasing factor neurons in the rat bed nucleus of the stria terminalis.	Striatal-enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase (STEP) is a brain-specific protein tyrosine phosphatase that opposes the development of synaptic strengthening and the consolidation of fear memories. In contrast, stress facilitates fear memory formation, potentially by activating corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF) neurons in the anterolateral cell group of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNSTALG).
Choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons and terminals in the rat septal complex: a combined light and electron microscopic study.	A monoclonal antibody against choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the acetylcholine synthesizing enzyme, was used to determine the morphological characteristics of cholinergic neurons and axon terminals within the rat septum. Light microscopy revealed numerous large fusiform or multipolar ChAT-immunoreactive neurons in the medial septal nucleus/diagonal band complex (MSDB). In contrast, virtually no immunostained cells were found in the lateral septum (Nc. septalis dorsalis and Nc. septalis lateralis). Fine immunostained fibers were most abundant close to the midline in the MSDB mainly following an ascending course. A few thin ChAT-immunoreactive fibers and terminallike pericellular punctate structures were observed in the inner part of the dorsal septal nucleus. Electron microscopy of ChAT-immunoreactive neurons revealed large cell bodies rich in cytoplasmic organelles. The cell nuclei regularly exhibited multiple invaginations of the nuclear membrane. Only rarely were terminals found that established synaptic contacts on the cell bodies of immunostained neurons. In contrast, numerous terminals formed synaptic contacts on immunoreactive dendrites. ChAT-immunopositive terminals were studied in thin sections from the MSDB and from the dorsal septal nucleus. In both regions they appeared as heavily immunostained vesicle-filled boutons that established symmetric and asymmetric synaptic contacts. In the dorsal septal nucleus immunostained terminals often showed a basketlike arrangement around immunonegative cell bodies. Our fine structural study provides evidence that cholinergic neurons in the MSDB are similar to cholinergic neurons in the basal nucleus and neostriatum, which have been described by other investigators. The presence of cholinergic synapses in the septal complex indicates that this region not only contains cholinergic projection neurons, but receives a cholinergic input itself.
Acetylcholinesterase and monoamine oxidase in various brain structures in chronic alcoholic intoxication]	The authors studied the rat brain after prolonged (up to 18 months) alcohol intoxication as well as the progeny of female rats after alcohol consumption for 4 months. Some changes in the activity of acetyl cholinesterase and monoamine oxidase in different structures of the brain in parents and progeny were unidirectional while others were not. Other findings included a weight loss during alcoholization and a decline in the fertility and viability of the progeny.
Opposite effects of sulfated cholecystokinin on DA-sensitive adenylate cyclase in two areas of the rat nucleus accumbens.	The nucleus accumbens of the rat receives a mixed DA/CCK8 innervation in its posterior part while its anterior part is innervated by distinct DA and CCK8 fibres. In vitro, the addition of CCK8 (0.3-1 microM) potentiated the activating effect of DA (10-30 microM) on adenylate cyclase in tissue homogenates obtained from the posterior part of the nucleus accumbens, whilst this activating effect was reduced by CCK8 in the anterior part. These results suggest the existence of two types of regulation of the D1 receptor by CCK8 depending on the identity (mixed or not mixed) of their innervating fibres.
